Chapter I.

Then where is that woman now, Mrs.
Snep ? " asked the curate.

"Well, sir, half-way to the town by this
time, I should judge."

Mrs. Snep had a very large wash-tub
before her, and was using it with energy
in the very small kitchen of a white-washed
cottage. Such a pretty little one-storied
abode, so rural, so smothered in greenery.
Too much so, indeed, for it stood with its
back to a great hop-garden, and the long
lines of hop-poles terminating against its

VOL. I. B

wall rose as high, as the thatch of the
roof, so that all the view obtained out of the
kitchen casement was down one long overarched
lane of hop-lines, under which the
softened light appeared to be endowed with
both colour and quietness, it was so strangely-green
and still.

The curate glanced rather helplessly into
that shadowy lane. He wished he was a
good way down it.

There was something trenchant, capable,
and rather defiant about the words and
fashions of the cottager's wife. The curate
was afraid of her.

Young curates often are afraid, and blush
under the eyes of such women. We do not
half enough consider their difficulties and
their fears, especially that fear of making
themselves ridiculous, which, perhaps, under
the circumstances, this particular young
curate felt just then with all the reason
in the world.

However, he made up his mind to do
his duty. To that end he said, " Considering
how weak she was when I saw her yesterday,
poor thing, and how very young her
infant is" (" Eleven days old come nine
o'clock this evening," Mrs. Snep put in asa
parenthesis), "I think her getting as far
as the town to-day," he went on, " must
be quite impossible."

Mrs. Snep, as he spoke, moved towards
the fire. "You'll excuse me, sir "  meaning,
You'll please to get up."

Oh, certainly," he exclaimed, rising, for
the place was so small that unless he made
way she could not pass ; and she took a
large iron pot of boiling water from the
fire and emptied it over her cooling suds,
before she addressed herself to the task of
making him any direct answer.

Then, having set the iron pot on her
stone threshold, as if on purpose that in
his exit he might knock it over, she ensconced

herself behind the mounting clouds
of steam, and while energetically rubbing
and wringing, said with an air of calm
superiority 

It ain't to be expected, sir, as you
should know much about these here things.
Not at present. But if you was to ask
your ma, she would tell you that poor folks
can noways afford to cocker themselves
up as lying-in ladies do. When my oldest
was eleven days old I took him on one
arm and his father's basket of dinner on
t'other, and off to the field with 'em,
thinking it no hardship neither. But your
knowing the ways of poor folk, let alone
the ways of tramps such as she, is not, as
I said, at all to be expected."

The curate felt annihilated. She had
got the better of him not so much by
pointing out his inexperience, as by the use
of those words " your ma."

He was young enough to feel keenly

ashamed of his youth. She made him feel
ignominiously young just then. He actually
envied her superior age ; and the fulness
of her knowledge raised in his mind something
like a wholesome fear.

She had, however, intended to express
civility. That a man so young should have
been placed over her head as a spiritual
guide, when he knew no more about sickness
than he did about washing, or, indeed,
about many of the other most important
and familiar experiences of her life, was a
thing at once ridiculous and aggravating ;
but not the less would she acknowledge
that he was a gentleman. Common men
had mothers, and were thankful for them,
but the delicate-handed woman who had
brought him up was worthy of a finer
name, so she gave it (as she thought), and
politely called her " your ma."

She's a tramp, sir," proceeded Mrs.
Snep ; " and in my opinion no better than

she should be, though some folks (kindhearted,
if I say it) took pity on her in her
trouble, and brought her in."

"And were paid for it, I suppose," observed
the curate ; for the trodden worm
will turn ; and she had made him smart,
and knew it.

Yes, sir," she answered, with a solemnity
most impressive. " I should hope I know
better than to throw money into the dirt,
away from my own poor husband and
children. She paid me, but little enough
it were ; and glad I were to see the back
of her when she went away of her own
free will  of her own free will  at ten
o'clock this blessed morning."

Did you show her the path to the road,
the road to G ?" inquired the young-man.


Mrs. Snep gave an energetic wrench to
a much-twisted swathe of linen, then shook
a snowy drift of foam from her hand with a

contemptuous action, as if she was thinking
of her late lodger, and made answer 

No, we'd had words, and I took not to
say any particular notice on her when she
walked herself off. But she did say, ' Mrs.
Snep, you've been a good friend to me, and
I ask your pardon if I've offended you, for,'
she says, ' I didn't ought to have said it.
I've counted over my things now, and I'll
allow you're as honest as the day.' "

As honest as the day," she presently
repeated, for she saw that this speech,
which was entirely of her own invention,
had impressed the curate very much.

But not as she had intended. " I always
thought you were robbing that poor thing,"
was his mental comment on it, " and now
I am sure."

Well, good morning, Mrs. Snep," he
exclaimed, forming a sudden resolution.
Between his zeal and his discomfiture, he
failed to notice the iron pot, which,

dashing through the door, he overturned
upon a fresh clump of white pinks, blacking
them and his own legs, and being obliged to
submit to the loan of a duster to wipe them.
"I always have to leave that woman
with an apology," he exclaimed, as he began
to stride along the path towards the town.

He did not find the woman  naturally he
did not  though he walked all the way to
the town, for he had been right in his
belief, and Mrs. Snep wilfully wrong. The
woman could only walk a very little way.
It was a sultry morning. She was very
weak ; a little child not two years old
dragged upon her gown ; she had her infant
on her arm, and from it depended a bundle.
She had been excited and angry, so that
she trembled, and her little strength soon
giving way, she turned off the dusty road to
court the shade of the hop-garden, skirting
it till she reached the end, and intending to
enter the road again.

And so it came about that when the
curate passed, this woman was still in the
hop-garden, within fifty yards of him.
Instead of turning to the left and regaining
the road, she had taken the path to the
right, and after wistfully gazing up some of
the narrow bowers of fragrant lines, had
crept into the shelter of one of them, all
cool and shaded and still ; there, propped
up by the hop-poles, she wept, at first with
a sick heart, but presently she found
admittance to the enchanted valley of
slumber; and if, instead of that, it had
been the lost Eden, secret since our first
mother's fault, she could hardly have
shown a face of more supreme content.

Oil, how common, but oh, how sweet is sleep ! "

She was tall, dark-haired, and thin. One
hand, which was rather pale than white,
touched with protective care the head of
her little two-year's-old girl, who, curled
up on the skirts of her gown, slept more

soundly than herself ; the other was spread
over her young infant, whose meaningless
blue eyes stared up from its mother's lap
into the space of sky overhead.

Her possessions were but the clothes she
wore  a cotton gown, a flimsy shawl, her
small bundle, a little paper parcel of bacon
and bread, an almost empty purse, these
two infants over whom her heart yearned
with unutterable love and despair, and
nothing else at all except the wedding-ring 
that was conspicuous enough on her honest,
labour-hardened hand, and was the symbol
of as bad a bargain as ever was made.

She had not lost a good husband by
death, but had to mourn a bad one yet
in life  a mean and cruel fellow, who from
the moment she married him had let her
see his contempt for the foolish passion
that, spite of warnings, had dared to waste
itself on him. She was free of him now
for awhile, free from this object of her once

impassioned love, and now of her fear and
shame. He had been arrested for a robbery
with violence, convicted, and sentenced to
penal servitude for fourteen years. She
had been very foolish, but to know that
was no element of consolation.

Her story in brief was this. She had
in her early days been employed by a
young invalid lady as reader, and when
old enough had entered her service. The
lady had taken some pains to improve her;
the books, also, that she read had enriched
her mind; insensibly she had become different,
softened. She had a natural love
of beauty and harmony ; her light tasks
and delicate surroundings fostered it.

The rough children she had played with,
and her vulgar relatives, became daily
more unlike her ; their ways, not themselves,
became distasteful to her. She
envied not so much the rich as the refined.

Oh, to be a lady !

Sarah DE BEKENGEE.

Her old mother in the tripe shop was
still dear to her, though she shrank from
her petty dishonesty and sordid aims 
still more from the boast she made of
these things in the bosom of her family.
She hated the meanness, the meagreness,
the smallness of life in the lanes, and the
smooth " and the "winds." She had
an ardent, yearning nature, always looking
out for something more, something higher ;
she wanted expansion  bright, soft air,
decent living, truth and honesty, and also
clean and becoming clothes.

She did not care for the footman's jokes,
or even for the butler's gracious smile ;
courtship from those of her own class did
not move her; she had left her world
behind, and cared for nothing in it  with
one sad, one fatal exception.

Among her better surroundings this one
exception had fast hold of her still : a
lad with a beautiful face, very pathetic

and fair. He was extremely lame of one
foot, but contrived to do more mischief
than most can though they be swift runners.
He could sing, oh, so sweetly; and sometimes
when he would pass, while in the
dark, with blinds drawn up and the street
lamps shining in, she sat watching her
sick lady, she could hear him  two or
three wild soft notes as he went by  and
hear the tap of his weighted shoe, and her
whole heart would cry after him. She longed
to be walking beside him, in the soft night
air, on that wet pavement, walking by him
and weeping, asking  could he care for her
if she gave him herself and all she had ?
praying him to be a better lad for her
sake.

But it was only her heart that went out
to him ; she never spoke. He did not love
her, nor know how she loved him.

She saw his possibilities, but of course
he was not on the way to attain, he never

would attain, them; they had being only
in her thought. For this woman was a poet
in her degree, which means that she was
a partaker of nature's boundless hope. She
was made welcome to a hint of nature's
wishes.

She was not one of those poets who write
verses  very few are ; none but such as
are poets through and through should ever
do that. Verse is only words, the garment
that makes the spirit of poetry visible to
others ; and poets who have but little of
the spirit often fritter that little away
in the effort to have it seen. But she was
a poet in this, that the elemental passions
of our nature were strong in her, and she
bowed to them with childlike singleness
of soul.

Her love was so fresh, it might no more
be withstood than the moss can withstand
the dew that drenches it, and makes
it sparkle in the morning. Her wonder

was more mi sated for ever, her hope was
more nearly possession than ours. If
sorrow came up, it was a dark amazement.
Would it not soon be over? There are
many days of sunshine for one thunderstorm.


The youth, by name Uzziah Dill, was a
journeyman shoemaker ; might have done
well enough but for his love of drink and
bad companions, and for occasional fits of
idleness, during which he would sit and
brood. Sometimes she would pass him
then, and wonder at him  was he in pain ?
was he wishing to do better ? Once, as he
sat under a little bridge, hidden to the
waist in tall rushes, she went by, and their
eyes met; for she had not been able to forbear
stopping to say a few civil words to
him. His beautiful face was clouded and
dissatisfied, but a gleam of surprise lighted
it up when he looked at hers. Her fate
was sealed. She passed on, her cheek hot

with blushes ; but he came to see her.
She had saved forty pounds, and was then
three and twenty. She was easily persuaded
that he meant to be a different man.
She married him, and in spite of his evil
ways, her love died hard, and almost broke
her heart. It was not till he had spent all
her money, and brought her and their little
child into the deepest poverty, that he
cured her of it. He had always neglected
her,  he now went off with another woman ;
and jealousy did in one day what coldness
and evil living of all other sorts could not
have worn out in years.

It was almost noon. The curate had not
found her ; none had come to help. She
slept on, and the least little movement in
the air lifted a corner of the old newspaper
in which was wrapped her food. It was
shaken loose and rustled, showing its name
The Suffolk Chronicle, a provincial newspaper.
What was it doing there ? The

woman, sitting on the slope of a long hill,
had her back toward the Worcestershire
beacon, and was looking to the south, over
a lovely expanse of country. A small red-roofed
city, with its cathedral peaks, folded
into the hollow of a hill; a shining reach
of river, with a bridge over it; walnut woods,
hop-gardens, and remote points of rocky
blue cliffs ; and then another town, with
spires piercing through the haze-like smoke
in which it slept, and to which the sun had
given a golden show of glory, that made it
seem to hang low, roofing the place like
yellow thatch, or a suspended crown.

The Suffolk Chronicle had come a long
way  had been sent, in fact, to the vicar's
wife, who was a Suffolk woman; from her
the curate had begged some tea and sugar
for his poor protegee, and she had given
them wrapped in it. It was now doing
duty again as a wrapper, but though the air
had in part loosened it, there were creases

VOL. I. c

and folds so that che news (if any had been
awake to read it) was only visible here and
there. A certain fishmonger, whose name
was hidden, advertised his ware. The
parishioners of St. Matthew's had presented
their vicar with  what did not appear.

After that came a notice 

If this should meet the eye of Hannah
Dill -"

As these words were set free, a little
portion of the bread became visible also,
and a robin, emboldened by long silence,
sprang upon the paper and weighed it down.
He only stole one crumb and flew off, when
up floated the paper again. "If this should
meet the eye "  then a fuller waft of air
shook the crumpled lines, and if any one
had looked, it would have been at this 
u If this should meet the eye of Hannah
Dill . . . hear of something to her advantage.
This is the fourth time of advertising."


It did not meet the eye of any one. But
just then, with a sudden start and tremor,
the baby turned and cried, and the exhausted
mother woke, ravenous with hunger
and cramped with the long restraint of her
attitude.

It was high noon, and very hot. While
she suckled her infant, she began with
hollow eyes to open her parcel, and divide
its contents with her elder child, who, rosy
and smiling, now sat up, and held out
dimpled hands, expectant of a share.

The child had never felt the gnawing of
hunger ; the mother had been familiar with
them of late. She took as much for herself
as she dared, then folded up the small remainder,
and thrust it under some dock-leaves
out of sight, lest she should be
tempted to eat more, and leave nothing
for the supper that she knew not where to
procure.

She did not feel rested; a sense of her

position seemed to fall upon her like a
blow. Where should she go ? what should
she do ? She had been on her way down
to Plymouth when her trouble had come
upon her. There had been some wild fancy
in her mind that she and the other poor
mothers and wives of convicts would stand
on the shore as they embarked, and take
leave of them and see them sail.

She was not so free, in truth, of this
wretched husband as she seemed ; she had
indulged strange notions as to her duty
towards him. He would think it hard if
she did not come, and bring him such
comforts as she could beg or buy for him.
Some despairing questions asked of such
women as knew of these matters had let
her know that the police would not suffer
this, that the Government would not hear
of that. Yet what he might be thinking
of her was frequently in her thoughts. He
had deserted her and not let her know of

his whereabouts for some time, but no
sooner had he got himself into serious
trouble, than he had contrived to have her
informed of it. It must have hurt him,
surely, never to have seen her anxious face
in the court during his trial. Did he think
she would not appear because she was
ashamed of him ?

A step coming on, and presently the
curate standing before her.

She had her baby at her breast, and as
she gently drew the flimsy shawl over its
little head, he lifted his hat and made hera
bow. It was not the sort of greeting a
very poor mother, a probable tramp, might
have expected, but she understood it ; she
knew it as the instinctive reverence of his
young manhood for her occupation. There
was something in the gentlemanlike and
sympathy of this curate that was inexpressively
comforting to her, but now the
contrast between him and her wretched

husband forced itself on her with miserable
force, and the tears fell fast over her thin
hands.

She could not speak or at first think, but
shortly she recovered herself and dried her
eyes, and saw the curate seated on the grass
before the opening of the tent-like bower.
He was perfectly silent, not looking towards
her, and he showed no wish to speak.

Oh, what a sigh ! She herself could not
have sighed more deeply. Then, but not
without hesitation, he began to talk  to tell
her, with all gentleness, that since she had
so little in this world, he was the more fain
to see her endowed with a sacred hope ; and
shortly, to her great surprise, though he
spoke with such consideration  it might
almost be said with such respect  she
perceived that he took for granted she was
not a married woman.

She lifted up her head, startled. "Yes,
sir, I know we're all sinners," she exclaimed

a little proudly; "we none of us
have anything to boast of."

"No."

"And as you said, sir, ' our sins do find
us out.' But, sir "

Yes, my poor friend."

I do thank my God for His Divine gift
of a Saviour (you put it beautiful). I've
often thought of it, since I sank so low.
But, sir"  spreading forth her left hand to
his view  "a true church parson like you
put on that ring. I have a husband, and
if I didn't fear God I should say, worse
luck."

"My poor friend, I earnestly beg your
pardon."

For I can never get free. I was warned
oh, I was warned. It's not a sin, sir, that
weighs me down; it's a mistake I made 
my great mistake."

"Indeed," he answered, in a tone of the
deepest sympathy.

"Oh, my poor husband! My mistake!
I must bear it; there's nothing can rid me
of it  nothing."

No," answered the curate ; and he
sighed again. " Divine Love came down
to take on itself our sins, but there is no
Saviour to do the like for our mistakes."

She looked up. It must have been a
sharp pang of pity that could have imparted
such a tone to his voice. It could not be
all pity, she thought. No, he too must
have made a mistake.

So seldom is true fellow-feeling found,
that when it is really present, it almost
always deceives. It had done so then. Her
first thought was never forgotten, and it
influenced her so long as that conversation
remained engraved in her mind.

Perhaps in her fine, though homely face,
he saw the sudden change of expression
which answered to this thought ; he may
have even perceived what it meant. But

what need to explain himself to this
stranger, this almost beggar ! He turned
away his face instead, and she noticed again
what she had seen before, that, young as he
was, he had one lock of perfectly white
hair among the brown.

He stood a moment silent, then he took
occasion to bring the conversation round
to a point from whence he could draw his
moral. Experts in teaching easily do this
sort of thing, and the poor commonly
expect it of them.

"If our sins were forgiven, our mistakes
need not break our hearts. Nature was
hard upon us, for their sake. She did not
forgive them, and she could not forget.
God did not interfere with her. But to us
He would give a heart that should be the
better for her discipline ; even they should
be among the ' all things ' that shall work
together for our good."

Chapter II.

If this should meet the eye of Hannah
Dill, whose maiden name was Goodrich,
and who was born in the parish of St.
Peter, Ipswich, she is desired to apply (by
letter only) to H. G., Blank Court, High
Lowborn (she knows the number), and she
will hear of something to her advantage.
This advertisement appears to-day for the
fourth time."

The curate gone ; the woman silent in
her bower, with wide-open eyes full of
amazement and fear.

The Suffolk Chronicle had done its work
at last.

She had sunk very low ; that, alas ! is

common enough. The uncommon thing is
the rising again.

"I fare to feel as if I must eat another
piece," the poor nursing mother had said,
for she was hungry again ; and she looked
wistfully at her parcel under the roofing
dock-leaves.

The curate had left her with the gift of
a shilling ; moreover, he had promised to
arrange with a carrier, who was to pass by
the hop-garden about three o'clock, to take
her and her babes as far as the town, in his
cart. For in that scattered hamlet, as he
explained, he knew of no one who could
lodge her.

What a slender hold she had on the care
and thought of the world ! None at all on
its heart. She heard what little kindness
it held for her only from the mouth of this
one man. The pledge of it with which his
hand had met hers was that one bit of
silver, and the sigh with which he had
murmured that he wished it was more.

She could not thank him, for little as he
was to her, he was all ; and he was sending
her away.

She meant to go : what else could she
do ? She could not walk far ; she could not
stay all night in the hop-garden. She
possessed little more than the cost of two
nights' lodging. When should she he
strong enough to earn a maintenance for
herself and her infants ?

"I fare so hungry," she repeated. She
drew her parcel from under the leaves, and
there was her own name, staring her in
the face: "If this should meet the eye of
Hannah Dill "

She had been so long unused to good
fortune, that at first she could see no
promise in this. Suspicions had been cast
upon her. The magistrates had said her
husband must have had accomplices.
Could this be a trap ? But why, if so,
should they advertise for her in Ipswich ?

No, this advertisement was put in by her
uncle the pawnbroker, the great man of the
family, known to be " well to do," said to be
rich. He had long cast off her mother, and
all his relations, because they plagued him
so for money. He had been fond of her in
her childhood, but when she married had
gone out of his way to let her know that he
meant to have no more to do with her. It
was only when she heard this that she
supposed he might have hitherto intended
some kindness to her.

She had not been to Ipswich for several
years. Her uncle did not know it ; and the
date of the newspaper was earlier than that
of her husband's trial.

This was no trap, this was real. She read
again and again  took courage ; but still
wary, still unused to joy, weighed it and
weighed it, between hope and fear, til] hope
suddenly got the upper hand, and she acted
upon it at once. She opened wide her parcel,

and with a little help from her baby-girl, ate
up all that remained in it, then and there.

A daring venture ! but when she began
to waver again and doubt, the sight of that
empty paper was an evidence to her of how
sure she had felt when she made it.

It helped the joy of certainty to recur,
and she felt so much the better for this and
for the good meal, that when the carrier
saw her seated on the step of the stile, and
her little one playing by her with some
flowers, he could hardly believe she was the
poor creature whom he had been told to
look out for.

Oh ! the bliss of lying in a golden shade,
under the tawny tilt of that waggon, as it
slowly moved along ; of hearing the carrier's
whistle while he trudged beside it ; of conning
the leaf of the newspaper, with oft-repeated
scrutiny ; then looking out over
the long blue hills, while they melted softly
into air, and feeling as if all the world,

with herself, was conscious of some great
reprieve.

Soon they halted at a little wayside inn,
half smothered in walnut trees, and while
the carrier's horse leaned over a long water-trough,
she bought some milk, and the
hostess came out to look at her baby, and
compare its age and weight with her own.
"It thrives," she observed.

Yes, thank God," answered the Ipswich
mother, "that do."

"And so you're going on to the town?"

"And further! I am going to a relation
that have written for me from London."

"My way lies toward London," observed
the old carrier, when they had started again.

Hannah Dill found that she should be
twelve miles nearer to London if she went
with the carrier to his destination, than if
she stopped at the town. She agreed to pay
the small sum he asked, in addition to what
her kind friend the curate had already given

him, and, after stopping at a little hostelry
outside the town to have her tea, set off
again in the cool of the evening, and went
on with the old man and a market woman.

Up and down the long hills they moved
till the crescent moon rose, and then till it
grew dark and the great horn-lantern was
lighted, and the old man carried it, sometimes
flashing its light on his horse, sometimes
on the green hedges, and into fields,
whose crops they could guess only by the
smell of clover, or fresh cut hay, or beans
that loaded the warm night-air; anon, on
whitewashed cottages, whose inhabitants
had long been asleep, and again upon the
faces of great cliff-like rocks, where cuttings
had been made for the road into the steep
hills, and where strange curly ammonites
and peaked shells and ancient bones high
up showed themselves for an instant in the
moving disk of light that rose and sank as
the lantern swayed in the carrier's hand.

Strange sights these ; and curious now
and then to see it flash on the bronzed face
of some wayfaring man, passing from the
dark into the dark, with the customary
Good night."

It was eleven o'clock when they reached
the hostelry, and Mrs. Dill got down with
her two sleeping infants. She felt that this
had been a strangely long day, but that she
was refreshed by food and hope and rest.

In the mean time the old man who had
advertised for her had long given her up.
He had soon taken to a sick bed, and for
awhile had asked if Hannah had written  if
Hannah was come. Then he ceased to ask,
but sometimes bemoaned her absence ; and
then he forgot her, and all the concerns of
this life, and asked no more.

The morning after her arrival at the
hostelry, Mrs. Dill wrote to her uncle, and
as soon as possible afterwards received the
money needful for her journey. The letter

VOL. I. I)

was not in her uncle's handwriting, and said
nothing about him. It was curt, and, without
any kind words, desired her to be as
quick as she could.

Between twenty and thirty years ago
there were not so many railways in the west
of England that one could count on getting
to London in one day. Mrs. Dill was thirty
miles from the nearest railway station. She
reached it by the aid of another carrier's
cart, and stood at her uncle's door about five
o'clock the following afternoon.

She had never been in London before.
The glaring white pavements and close heat
oppressed her, while the swarms of people
and of vehicles, the noise and hurry, made
her tremble with a sense of danger for
herself and her children. But she had nota
shilling left, find her uncle she must ;
and she still asked her way and pressed on,
till at last she reached a shabby house ina
dusky court, and, overcome with fatigue

and excitement, rang the bell. A woman,
dressed in new mourning, presently came to
the door, and seeing her shabby, woe-begone
appearance, and her two children, took her
for a beggar, and made this remarkable
announcement, " No, we never give anything
away in charity," and was proceeding
to shut the door in her face, when she
exclaimed, " Wait a minute ; I am come to
see Mr. Goodrich. I'm his niece ; you'll
show me in, if you please."

"Bless my heart!" exclaimed the woman,
with an irrepressible smile, " if here ain't
another on 'em;" and then she became
suddenly grave again, and answered coldly,
You're too late, young woman. You may
come in, if you choose, and see all the others,
but you will not see Mr. Goodrich ; he was
buried yesterday."

A sharp sense of misery and disaster, a
sudden cry to the woman, " Oh, my babe !
don't let that fall," then an eddy of blackness

swirling over all things, and Hannah
Dill fainted away.

After that, her first sensation was that
her little girl was crying, and next that
several other voices made a din about her 
voices that long ago she seemed to have
known, voices that made her think of
Ipswich. In the midst of it all, and while
still she could not move or open her eyes,
a commanding voice quelled the others.
Either be silent and stand back, or at once
leave the room."

With a sharp sigh she presently got her
eyes open, and saw dimly several people,
but before them stood a gentleman, who
spoke at once. " You are better. No need
to raise your head. Your name ? "

Mrs. Dill."

The assembly received this announcement
with an audible groan.

There was an advertisement," she proceeded
faintly, " in the Suffolk Chronicle; "
and she tried to fumble for the paper.

Thank you. We know all about that.
There are several copies of the Suffolk
Chronicle here."

Something scornful in the voice helped
her to rouse herself ; and at the same time
a murmur of congratulation floated round
the room. Somebody ventured to congratulate
Mr. Bartlett. " You're not the gentleman,
sir, to be so easy taken in. Hannah
Dill, indeed! Is it likely ? "

Not at all likely," answered the commanding
voice ; " but let her alone for the
present."

Where's my babe? where's my child ? "
she exclaimed, trying again to raise herself,
and failing.

Close at hand," answered the same
voice, and a glass of wine was held to her
lips ; after drinking which she sat up, and
observed that she was in a small wainscoted
parlour, accommodated on a horsehair
sofa. Several people were in the room;

for the moment they seemed to float before
her; but presently she gathered strength,
and then, as they settled down into their
places, her attention was attracted almost
at once by a little stout old woman, with
eyes like black beads, a long nose, and a
curled " front" of brown hair. She was
dressed in neat mourning, and no sooner
met the full gaze of the tall, gaunt young
woman, than she slipped into the background
; whereupon the gentleman whom
they had called Mr. Bartlett looked surprised,
and requested her to come forward,
which she did, looking both irate and
abashed.

Still Mrs. DiU looked at her. " You'll
excuse me, ma'am. It's many years since
I saw my aunt Maria  Mrs. Storer; and
folks alter strangely. I don't wonder, either,
that any one should forget me, not expecting
to see me dressed so as I am. You are the
very moral of what my dear mother was

before she died. Why, dear me, ma'am,
you are my aunt Maria ! I'm your sister
Susan's daughter, aunt. I'm Hannah
Goodrich."

Tcha ! " said the old lady, "it's no such
thing ; you're not a bit like her. What did
you expect you were going to do here,
deceiving of us ? "

It don't much signify what I expected,"
she answered, bursting into tears; but she
had looked round the room first, and was
quick to perceive at once how unwelcome
she was there. " It don't much signify
what I expected ; I shall not have it now.
He's gone that meant to be a good friend
to me ! You have no call to be so envious.
He's past doing me any kindness; and I
was more in need of it than you are."

Here followed a scene which the one
silent spectator looked on at with equal
surprise, interest, and attention ; a scene of
excitement, rage, and recrimination, during

which all the old heart-burnings and delinquencies
of the Goodrich family were
raked up, and argued over again. Two
aunts and two uncles were challenged by
Hannah Dill, in whose teeth it was forthwith
flung that her husband was a convict,
and that this was already known all over
Ipswich, and that if the dear departed had
only known it too, he never would have
suffered her to enter his door; and who,
in a passion of tears, replied by upbraiding
of their unkindness in suffering their own
sister, in spite of her humble entreaties for
help, to die in receipt of parish pay, and be
buried with a pauper's funeral ; and then,
after this short outbreak of indignation and
outraged feeling, partly at their refusal to
recognize her, and then, when they did, at
their cruel mention of her wretched husband,
being completely quelled by numbers,
and cured of her faintness by passionate
excitement, snatched up her baby in her

trembling arms, and seizing her other child
by the hand, turned her back on them all,
and, without any words of farewell, moved
hastily towards the door.

But that gentleman, still looking on, was
standing before it, leaning against the lintel.
Where are you going, Mrs. Dill?" he
now asked, with slow composure.

"I don't know," she answered, with a
choking sob. "I have nowhere to go to.
I've come to-day and yesterday all the way
from beyond Glastonbury, to see my poor
uncle. But I'm not wanted ; it's no use
my stopping now."

Oh ! the person I wrote to, then ? I
think you are rather in a hurry," he answered,
with his calm, slow smile.

Here the two aunts said it was a shame,
and they had never been used to convicts'
wives in the family. She quivered all over,
and, with entreating eyes, appealed to him
to let her be gone. But he, taking no
notice, proceeded calmly.

Your uncle, you know, might have left
you something ; you don't seem to think of
that, Mrs. Dill."

To this speech, still trembling with excitement
and passion, she made a remarkable
answer.

It's no use at all what he might have
said I was to have ; they would divide it
amongst themselves just the same  I know
they would ! They are that grasping and
contemptuous, that they would never let
me touch a thing ! "

In the mean time, the aunts and uncles
were all appealing to Mr. Bartlett, and
saying it was a shame.

So it may be," he answered, coldly,
"for anything I care. There is no doubt,
then, that this is Hannah Dill. You had
better sit down, Mrs. Dill."

Mrs. Dill, having received this command,
wept, but obeyed ; and, observing the
silence that had fallen on the company,

felt her excitement suddenly give way to
shame at the passionate language into
which she had been betrayed. Here she
was obliged to face everybody, and all eyes
were upon her.

I'm sure I humbly beg your pardon,
uncles and aunts," she cried, drying her
eyes with another sob.

"Mrs. Dill," continued the lawyer, "have
I your attention? "

Sir ? "

I am the lawyer who made your uncle's
will. This being the day succeeding his
funeral, I have just been reading it here,
according to his directions."

Indeed, sir."

There it lies upon the table. You will
please to make yourself at home here.
Everything is yours."

"Mine ?" with a sharp cry of amazement.

"Yours."

To say that on the instant Mrs. Dill was

pleased or proud, would be quite a mistake.
Compunction and confusion strove in her
mind, with doubt as to whether the family
would let her take what had been given
her, and utter abasement at her position
as a convict's wife tied her tongue. She
gazed helplessly at the lawyer, who, having
taken a pair of new gloves from his pocket
and deliberately put them on, was now
buttoning them one after the other, as if
they were of more consequence than her
inheritance.

So they were to him.

It may have been, perhaps, that he saw
her bewilderment as she gazed at them,
that he put his hands behind him and said,
with slow composure, " Mrs. Dill, I have
some advice to give you, in the presence of
these good people."

Having said this, he presently took up
the will and put it in his pocket.

"Yes, sir," she answered, the sense of

his words reaching her at last ; and she
gathered her first feelings of possession from
the deep silence around her, and from his
speaking to her only.

I advise you to make no promises whatever,
and, in fact, utterly to decline any
sort of discussion on business matters, till
after you have seen me tomorrow morning."

Hannah Dill gazed at him, and the room
seemed to he full of sighs ; there was nota
person present that had not heaved one.

When they reached the lawyer's ears, he
said, with rather more sharpness in his tone
than he had used before, " I may hope, I
suppose, that I have your attention, Mrs.
Dill?"

"Yes, sir," she replied.

And that you will attend to my advice,
and make no promises till after you have
seen me tomorrow morning ? "

The room was full of sighs again.

"You promise ? "

Yes, sir," she repeated, " I do."

Thereupon, having done his duty, he
promptly retired, but, as if struck by an
after-thought, had scarcely closed the door
when he opened it again, and beckoned
her out with his finger.

"Have you any money?" he whispered
kindly.

Only a few half-pence, sir."

"You would like to borrow this, then,"
he said, and he put two sovereigns in her
hand; whereupon, feeling more relieved
every instant, she returned, and, as is often
the case on a great occasion, her first words
were very simple and commonplace.

She looked round ; no eyes met hers. It
was evident that she was mistress of the
situation. "Aunts and uncles," she said,
in a deprecating tone, and after an awkward
pause, "if you're agreeable to it, let's have
our tea."

By this time the aunt who had not

hitherto spoken had got the baby in her
arms. The other, seeing that the matter
was inevitable, constituted herself spokeswoman
for the party, and said, in a way
half grumbling, half ashamed 

Well, Hannah, I for one am willing to
forgive and forget ; and there's a gel downstairs
you might send out for anything you
wanted  muffins, a relish, or what not."

"Or spirits," put in one of the uncles;
or, in short, anything as you might think
well to lev."

Mrs. Dill sent out for new bread, fresh
butter, plenty of muffins, green tea, loaf
sugar, sausages, ham to fry, a bottle of gin,
and a quart of milk.

When the meal was ready, the "gel"
was trusted with the baby, and took it
downstairs, while they all sat down and
did it full justice ; but to nobody were the
steaming sausages and delightful cups of
hot strong tea so welcome as to Hannah

Dill herself, for she had eaten nothing
that day but a dry crust of bread, which
her little girl, after a sufficient meal, had
daintily declined, so short had she been
of money till those two sovereigns, the
first pledges of prosperity, touched her
honest hand.

She did not preside, would not have
presumed to do so. One aunt served
the ham and sausages, another poured out
the tea, her uncles kept the bottle of gin
under their special superintendence, and
all was silent satisfaction, if not harmony,
till the company could eat and drink no
more.

Chapter III.

Time, ten o'clock in the morning after this
tea drinking.

Scene, the parlour before mentioned, and
Mrs. Dill seated in it quite alone.

Her baby, once more in charge of the
gel," was down in the kitchen, staring
just as contentedly at its dingy ceiling as
she had done some days before at the
celestial azure that showed between the
leaves of the hop-lines. Her little girl,
having found a dead black-beetle, was
putting it to bed in a duster, with just as
much pleasure as she had received beforetime
from the flowers.

Mrs. Dill had borrowed a black gown,

VOL. I. E

and a very large flat black brooch, from
trie taller of her two aunts, and was awaiting
the lawyer's visit.

A lanky sunbeam, having got down between
two opposite chimneys, seemed to
be pointing out to her country eyes how
dirty London was, what nests of dust there
were in the corners of the window panes,
and how, wherever there was a crack in
the plaster or the wainscot, blacks were
attracted towards it, and marked its course
by a winding line, that reminded her, as it
has done so many other people, of a river
traced upon a map. There was a garniture
of pipes round the small looking-glass ; ill-matched
tumblers, standing on a card-table,
flanked the now almost empty bottle of
gin. But yet this was a parlour, and her
sensations towards it, though made restless
by suspense, were on the whole pleasure
and pride.

And now Mr. Bartlett appeared, and took

the will from his pocket, which he read
to her with all gravity, while she sat instate
opposite.

It treated of certain shares in the Brighton
Railway, of a particular messuage or tenement,
of two fields bought of Richard
Prosper, the butcher of Stoke, near Ipswich,
and then, in the midst of a good deal of
jargon concerning property real and personal,
came the name of Hannah Dill,
whose maiden name was Goodrich, and
who was to have and to hold this same
messuage or tenement, with other his said
property real and personal, during the term
of her natural life, for her sole and separate
use, and if she survived her husband, to
have power to will it away.

Here followed a codicil.

When Mr. Bartlett had read the will and
the codicil from beginning to end, he got up
and stood on the rug. She then rose also.
How could she think of sitting unless he
did?

I.  university

OF 

He perceived this, and also that she was
very little the wiser for what she had heard.

The name of the executor, you perceive,
is Gordon. He is a very respectable tradesman,
but he is ill just now  not able to
appear."

Still silence.

I dare say the codicil puzzles you. Mr.
Goodrich added that himself. His real
property having proved troublesome and a
losing concern to him, the executor is at
liberty to sell it, provided it is forthwith
reinvested, or laid out prudently. He also
expressly permits that a portion be laid out
in buying a business, or in stocking a shop."

Then he sat down again, and so did she,
and gathered courage to ask a question.
Might she take the liberty to inquire how
much a week the things he had been good
enough to read about would bring in ? "

How much a week  how much  a 
week?" he repeated slowly, as he took out

a pencil. " The income you should derive
from this property," he said, adding the
various items together, " is as near as maybe
one hundred and eighty pounds a year ;
that is about three pounds a week, you
know."

Though she had been in such poverty,
and this was riches to her, she betrayed no
vulgar elation.

"Indeed, sir. Thank you. Is that money
mine, to do as I like with ? "

Well, yes ; for though you are a married
woman, your husband cannot interfere with
you at present."

No, sir," she answered faintly. " He
was sentenced, poor fellow, for fourteen
years, and I know now that he is in the
convict prison at Dartmoor. He is most
likely not to leave the country, as I had
thought ; he is to work there at his trade."

You know, of course, that if he behaves
well, he will be allowed to come out in

eleven or twelve years with a ticket of
leave."

Yes, sir ; and that he will be allowed to
write to me, and I to him, twice a year. I
heard so from his brother, Jacob Dill, who
felt sure that, in time, I should hear of that
advertisement, and come. So he wrote
here accordingly. They gave me the letter
last night. I suppose, sir, that, when my
poor husband comes out, he will have just
as much right to the money, and to his
children and to me, as if he had never got
himself into trouble ? ' '

Certainly he will; nothing but a sentence
for life can dissolve the marriage contract.
You took him for worse as well as for
better."

"I know, sir. Am I responsible to him
then, do you think, for what I do with the
money while he is under his sentence ? "

"No, Mrs. Dill; it cannot be said that
you are."

Here, being a restless man, Mr. Bartlett
forgot himself, rose, and stood on the rug
again. Mrs. Dill took occasion to rise also.

About those relations of yours? I
suppose you took my advice ? "

I did as well as I could," she answered,
with apologetic respect.

Here he gravely seated himself, and she
followed suit.

As well as you could ? " he repeated.

Sir, they made the remark so many
times, that it seemed very hard and very
unnatural  in short, they were that low
about the will "

"Weft, Mrs. Dill?"

That at last I said, if you were quite
agreeable, I would endeavour to come to
some sort of agreement with them. If you
were quite agreeable, sir," she repeated,
seeing him knit his brow. " On consideration
of which," she went on, "they all
promised faithfully that they would go

away. And they thought it would be as
well that they should be out of the house
till dinner-time, that I might be wholly free
to talk it over with you."

Your object in coming to an agreement,
as you call it, would simply be in order to
get rid of them."

Well  yes, sir."

Mrs. Dill, if once you begin to pay your
relations to go, they will return and return,
to be paid again. I should send them all to
the righteous, if I were you. They have
enough. They all get a decent living."

Oh, you simpleton ! " was his thought ;
you will be fleeced of every shilling before
you are a year older."

You must think of your young children,"
he remarked, " and their almost worse than
fatherless state. They have no one but yourself
to look to."

"Yes, I feel that, sir."

"And, then, something surely is due to.

your uncle's wish, the old man's wish who
earned this property, and has deliberately
chosen to leave it to you."

"And I thought of that too. But it's
mine now, and I fare to feel hurt by their
reproaches. If it was only a trifle, my eldest
uncle said ; and so did his son, my cousin.
I said perhaps Mr. Bartlett would not allow
me to "

To give any of the income away ? " he
asked, when she hesitated. "I could not
prevent it, nor Mr. Gordon either."

So they said, sir," she replied, with an
ingenuous sigh of regret. " They said,
Hannah, if you chose to take and chuck it
all in the Thames, they could not prevent
it'"

Quite true."

Then she tried to explain to him her
distress at having to do anything mean.
She thought the old man had left his
property to her more to spite his brothers

and sisters than out of any love to herself.
She could not bear to hear those nearer to
him speak so hardly of the dead ; she would
buy his memory into better repute by
making some sacrifice of his goods.

She had, as he observed, notions of honour
and right not common in her class, but also
she was simple in some other matters
to a degree not common in any class.
She had that temperament which, with one
touch more of the divine in it than others,
has also one touch more of the child. The
child in her nature was destined never to
grow up, as the yearning idea was too high
ever to be satisfied.

You seem very much afraid of your
aunts and uncles," he said. " But let me
tell you one thing for your comfort : the
law will not permit you to make away
with any of the principal; you can only
deal with the income."

That was what they made me promise

to ask ; they seemed to be afraid it was
the case."

As long as your husband is living you
can only touch the income."

Still, for the next ten or eleven years
I could give them what I pleased out of the
income."

"What they pleased, I think you mean!
You could. Did they name any particular
sum that would satisfy them ? "

Why, sir, there are five of them. If I
kept half for myself till such time as poor
Dill came home, the other half wouldn't be
much divided among them ; but I reckoned,
by what they let fall, it would satisfy them
if it was paid regular."

Here Mr. Bartlett got up once more, and
stood cogitating by the window. She was
a fool ; but he did not despise, for he
understood her.

He remained a few minutes turning over
in his mind, between pity and amusement,

what to do for her. It was no business of
his, as he assured himself, but yet he meant
to take it in hand. A sudden thought
seemed to strike him just as a cab passed
the window. He tapped and stopped it.

These harpies are gone out, you say.
Where are your children ? ' '

Downstairs, sir."

I have a note to write. Suppose you
fetch them up, and come back to me with
your bonnet on."

Her bonnet was so shabby ! She knew
not whether to think most of it, or of
Mr. Samuel Weller, who went to Doctors'
Commons to prove a will. Was Mr.
Bartlett going to take her there ?

Mr. Bartlett was in the passage when she
appeared with her children. He had a note
in his hand, the ink of which was not dry.
He had already opened the street door;
he moved to her to enter the cab, and
straightway shut her in. "I have told

the man where to drive," he said. " The
direction is on the note, also ; " and before
she had recovered from her astonishment,
she had left her late uncle's house, never
to enter it again.

It may be as well to draw a veil over the
scene that ensued, when her aunts and
uncles having returned, and waited dinner
for her a reasonable time, began to suspect
that she had escaped them. To obtain the
half of everything, was the very least they
had counted on. Some of them remained
within, in case she should return ; others
went to Mr. Bartlett's office. Mr. Bartlett,
they were informed, was engaged, and could
not possibly see them, but they learned
from his clerk that no person resembling
Hannah Dill had called there that day.

The note that Mr. Bartlett had put into
Mrs. Dill's hand was addressed, " Mrs.
George Bartlett." Its contents may as
well be given here.

Dear Love,

"You remember the scene I was
describing to you last night? This is the
heroine of it !

Her relations have arranged a plan for
chousing her out of her money ; and she is
so chousable, that if left with them another
day, she will be committed to it irretrievably.
So, unknown to herself, I have
caused her to run away from them. Tell
her so, and tell her I say that, in justice to
herself and her children, she must not
decide to give anything to these people
while under the constant pressure of their
importunity.

I suppose, love, she can dine in the
nursery ? And then I want you, as soon as
possible after, to let nurse take her in the
omnibus up the new road to old Mrs.
Prentice, who can lodge her, or recommend
her to somebody who can. Tell her to

keep herself perfectly quiet till she hears

from us.

Thine,

"G. B."

Mrs. Dill had been driven to Mr.
Bartlett's house, and, in a high state of
astonishment and perplexity, was waiting
in a handsome dining-room, and keeping
her children quiet with some difficulty,
when a plump, pleasant-looking young
woman came in, with the note open in
her hand, and a face full of amusement
and curiosity.

Mrs. Dill exclaimed that she hoped there
was no mistake. And the lady answered
cordially, " No mistake at all. I am Mrs.
George Bartlett. I could not come down
sooner ; I was nursing my baby. Yours
looks very young."

Only sixteen days, ma'am; and I
believe that's hungry."

Poor little lamb ! " said trie other mother,
and paused an instant, as if she hardly knew
how to go on ; then glancing at the note
again, and catching an idea from it, she said,
with a smile of amusement, "Well, suppose
you come up to the nursery, and nurse it
there, and see my baby. But he is a great
big fellow, eight months old. Come, I will
lead your little girl."

The baby by this time was so fractious,
that Mrs. Dill, in spite of her surprise,
was very glad of any proposal which promised
to allow of her satisfying its little
requirements.

The children are gone out for their
walk," observed Mrs. Bartlett, as they
entered a light, roomy nursery. " Take
the rocking-chair, and make yourself at
home."

Then, as soon as the baby was quiet and
happy, and little Miss Dill had been propitiated
with a sponge rusk and a rag doll,

Mrs. Bartlett said, " And so my husband
has made you run away from your relations
?"

Ma'am!" exclaimed Mrs. Dill, "I do
assure you I shouldn't think of such a
thing."

"He says so," repeated Mrs. Bartlett,
much enjoying her task.

I never thought of such a thing ! " the
other exclaimed again.

What did you think you were doing,
then, when you got into the cab ? Why did
you do it ? "

Why, ma'am, because Mr. Bartlett told
me."

Mrs. Bartlett now, at some length, explained
the true state of the case, and soon
observed that to know she was freed from
these relations, and had got her future
in her own hands, was a most welcome
thought to Mrs. Dill. Her gratitude was
fervent, but she could not help smiling

VOL. I. F

while she answered the questions of her
hostess as to what had passed.

"I wonder you did not at least ask Mr.
Bartlett where you were going."

Oh, ma'am, Mr. Bartlett is such a commanding
gentleman ! I couldn't take the
liberty."

Mrs. Bartlett laughed. On reflection she
laughed again. " Well, I suppose George
has rather a commanding manner with
strangers," was her thought. "But, dear
me ! who would expect him to be obeyed
and no questions asked ! "

Mr. Bartlett was his wife's humble servant.
He was what is sometimes called an "outside
man," large-handed, heavy-footed,
imposing in appearance, commanding invoice
and gesture ; a great dark, plain,
downright, upright, kind-hearted personage.

It is said that in a thoroughly strong and
good government the weight of the governing
hand is least felt. Mr. Bartlett was

ruled with such utter ease and skill that he
thought he was free.

In two hours' time Mrs. Dill had entered
her lodgings at Pentonville, and was divesting
herself of her aunt's gown and brooch,
which, to prevent discovery, were to be
returned by the Parcels Delivery Company.

Having no gown, she was obliged to stay
indoors till a dressmaker could finish one
for her. The shop-windows were not then,
as now, full of " costumes " ready-made. Mrs.
Dill and the nurse did some shopping on
their way, and then, left alone with her babes,
after the latter had withdrawn, she sat down
to think over the astonishing events of the
last twenty-four hours.

Now the long journey, and the excitement
she had since gone through, began to tell
upon her, and for several days she was glad
to He quietly on her bed, finding it enough
to wonder at and be thankful for that she
could procure whatever she wanted, and

civility too. For, as the landlady would
sometimes remark to her, "A fat trouble,
ma'am, is much better than a lean trouble ;
and however bad you feel, you know you've
only to put your hand in your pocket, and
send me out to buy the dinner."

Mrs. Dill soon constituted herself Mr.
Bartlett's client, and taking, by his advice,
or rather by his orders, several days to
think the matter over, conveyed to him her
deliberate wish that he would keep for her
one hundred and fifty pounds a year, and
divide the remainder of the income, with
the furniture and clothes left by her deceased
uncle, equally among his brothers
and sisters.

Mr. Bartlett and the executor grumbled
over this decision, but they carried it out,
and of their own accord obtained from each
of the recipients a written promise, never
again to molest Hannah Dill in the possession
of her property, and never at any

future time to apply to the said Hannah
Dill for money, on any pretence whatever.

They were all satisfied, especially Hannah
Dill, who read the signed paper, and heard
that her relations were gone back to Suffolk,
with almost incredulous joy.

Poor woman, she was now safe for awhile
from the unkindness of her husband. She
began to try hard to forgive him, being
helped by the consciousness that he could
not now be offending against her. Her
natural jealousy as a wife was appeased;
she pitied him. He would surely now become
a better man. In about five months
he would have leave to communicate by
letter with her. He should hear of her
good fortune, and for the sake of this promise
of secured future comforts, if not for
her sake, surely he would reform.

She dreaded him sorely; but what hope
was there for her, excepting in thus hoping
the best for him ? This crime had been

hateful to her, for the house he had robbed
was that of her own dear lady, and there
could be no doubt that he had obtained
the knowledge which made this easy during
the time when he had come courting thereto
her.

She had been somewhat of a wanderer.
Born at Ipswich, she had moved with the
family of her lady to Bristol; but Uzziah
Dill belonged to Chester, and soon after
her marriage with him, he had returned
there on a promise of work, and there they
had lived till he went off with the woman
for whose sake he had for some time neglected
her.

She was very weak and ill all that winter ;
she had gone through so much misery, that
she could not soon recover. But she had
the solace of her children, and having
plenty of money and time, she employed
herself mainly in making an abundant
supply of comfortable and handsome clothing
for them.

She went now and then to see Mrs.
Bartlett, and observed how her children
were dressed. " Mine have a right to the
best," was her thought; "and, bless them,
they shall have it, and the best of wholesome
eating too."

Hannah Dill was a tall young woman,
with a large frame, and dark hair and
eyes. Her children were two delicate little
fairies, flaxen-haired and blue-eyed, withall
the pensive beauty of their father, but
with little promise of strength and vigour*.

When she knew that it was almost time
for her husband to write to her, she wrote
to his brother, Jacob Dill, and gave him
her address. She little thought this would
bring the whole tribe of the Dills upon
her; she knew that they had not money
enough to come, and they had been so
unfriendly to her, that she supposed they
would be ashamed to apply to her for
money, even by letter.

She was quite mistaken, and soon found
herself worse off with them than she had
been with the Goodrich.

On the evening of the third day old
Mrs. Dill appeared and established herself
in Hannah Dill's lodgings, having borrowed
the money for her journey, and expecting
her daughter-in-law to return it forthwith.
She brought her youngest girl with her,
and said she would be very handy for taking
care of the children.

Hannah Dill was at that time so restless
with expectation, that she was even less
able than usual to cope with these encroaching
spirits. Everything seemed to
depend on her husband's first letter. Was
he penitent? was he hardened? How
would he write, and what should she reply?

It is probable that she would have succumbed,
and perhaps have even agreed to
receive Uzziah's drunken old father, but
for a blow that she was not prepared for,

and which hurt her more sorely than all
that had gone before.

Jacob Dill wrote, for he said he was
ashamed to show her his face. He was
the only one of the Dills that had a spark
of spirit or good feeling. It was better
she should know it, he wrote. Uzziah had
written, had written the first day that he
was allowed. Of course he had not heard,
when he did it, of his wife's having got
the money. " You see, Hannah, they are
only allowed to write to their wives, or
their families if they have no wife. He
told the governor he had a wife ; and I
am sorry to let it out to you, for I know
you'll be hurt, but he wrote to her. Why,
she was with him at his trial, and called
Mrs. Dill and all ; and he told her how he
wanted to hear on her, and asked if her
baby were born, and she were to write
back as though she was his wife. It was
not at all sure as he should be long at

Dartmoor ; tie might get sent over the sea.
And, oh ! would she write off directly ? It
was a shame, but he never mentioned you
at all."

What people have been taught how todo,
they should be able to do. Hannah
Dill ran away again.

Old Mrs. Dill had, now she had come to
London, two ambitions. She wanted to
see the Crystal Palace, and also to see
Smithfield.

She accomplished the last while her
daughter-in-law T , cold as a stone after this
blow, sat shivering in silence by the fire.
She accomplished the second a few days
after, and took her daughter. "When the
poor wife heard the door shut after her, and
knew that she would be away for hours,
she lifted up her face, that was full of
moody and brooding thought, asked the
landlady to watch her children, and went
out. She came back in a cab, with three

large boxes ; and, some hours after that, left
the house again, with those same boxes
and her children, and a hearty hug from
the landlady, whose claims she more than
satisfied.

When old Mrs. Dill came back, she found,
instead of her daughter-in-law, certain
articles of clothing laid out for her acceptance
 a brown paper parcel, containing
money enough to take her and her daughter
home, and a letter, setting forth that her
daughter-in-law had ]eft London for good,
and she would hear from her and see her
no more.

Chapter IV.

Great schemes may be reasoned out and
great sacrifices already made in thought
while, leaning her face on her hand, a
heart-sick woman sits brooding, with her
feet on the fender.

Uzziah Dill's wife had tried hard to forgive
him, and, while at peace in present
freedom, had persuaded herself that she
need not tremble, thinking of the day that
would bring her into his presence and under
his dominion again.

Uzziah Dill's wife now gave him up for
good and all. She suffered in so doing
from no sense of wrong, any more than of

unkindness towards hero. Clearly he did
not want her, and he had sinned against
her in that one only way which made herby
all law, divine and human, free to depart
and be loosed from him for ever.

But then she wanted to save her children,
not only from the disadvantage and disgrace
of knowing that they had a convict
for their father, but from that acquaintance
with wickedness, evil living, and shame
that they could not escape if she went into
court so soon as he was free, and laid all
her wrongs open in order to obtain a
divorce.

How could she save these that were her
all  these, so much dearer to her than
herself  the costly and consoling fruit other
great mistake ? For their sake, in spite
of the sorrow and fear it had wrought her,
she always found it impossible to wish the
past undone.

If she was, indeed, never to retrieve the

mistake, could she not still so act as to
take all its weight upon herself? She
longed, as true love must, to shield her
children from the cruel robbery of affection
that she had proved  from exposure to
contaminating examples, from want and
blame.

To this end, she effaced herself utterly,
and left her name behind her. When she
was again seen by one who knew her, she
showed herself that she might learn how
to deprive the vicious father of his children,
to secure which she was willing to rob herself
of them also.

At first, restless and wretched, she could
not mature her plan, but journeyed from
one little seaside place to another, never
calling herself by her husband's name, but
using any other, indifferently, that came
into her head.

Mr. Bartlett, during those three or four
months, heard frequently from Hannah Dill,

and forwarded money to her as she required
it. Before he got rid of the whining old
mother-in-law, and the helpless young girl,
he had wished many times that he had
never taught her to run away.

And then there was a drunken father-in-law,
who tormented him for more money,
and said it was on his conscience that
Hannah ought to be advertised for, and
made to come back to her own husband's
relations, that were so willing to look after
her and the children.

Mr. Bartlett said they might advertise if
they liked, and make her come back if they
could. He added, in such a convincing
way, that he did not care what they did,
that in the end they believed him, and gave
him up, as the " wrong-headedest " and
"hard-heartiest" gentleman they had ever
met with. They then departed.

At last, but not for some time after this,
Mrs. Dill appeared one morning at Mr.

Bartlett's office, sent up a note, and was
straightway admitted to an interview.

It was evident that she had gone through
great trouble ; her eyes were hollow, and her
features thin. Her children had both been
ill, she told him, but she acknowledged
nothing else afflictive, and after a few
commonplaces of condolence from him,
she broke in with 

I came to ask your opinion, sir, about
some things I don't fairly understand."

Well, Mrs. Dill, I am at your service."

"I wish, sir, to know how people came
first by their surnames. I have made outby
a book of history, that we did not
always have such."

Certainly not."

People took them, I fare to think,
mainly for convenience."

Quite true."

He then went over familiar ground with
her  described how some names grew out

of the trades of those first called by there,
others came from the father's Christian
name, others, again, from localities.

"But you do not need that I should tell
you this," he broke off to say; " you have
studied the subject, I find."

"Yes, sir," she answered. "Then what
they took for convenience, I should say
they may change for convenience."

"They very commonly do  for the sake
of some property, for instance, left on that
condition."

I know it, sir. Well, it would hurt my
conscience to live in a lie. If I call myself
by another name than poor Dill's, do I lie ?
Mayn't I take a name for myself, as my
fore-ancestors did? "

That depends, I should say, partly on
the motive. If you meant, by such an act,
to prevent your husband from claiming you
and his children when he gets free, and
also to keep from him, if you can, the money

VOL. I. G

that you have inherited, and to which he
will have a clear right "

Mrs. Dill's silence appeared to show that
she did so intend.

"It would be every way wrong," he
presently added. " It would deprive him of
his wife, while, being unable to prove your
death, he could not marry again."

No, but that would be no worse for him
than for me. I could never marry again,
either."

You propose to interfere with your
husband's clear legal rights."

Sir, sir ! " she interrupted. " Of course
a man must be expected to take the man's
side. I don't resent that ; so it is, and
always will be, just as sure as that a woman
will take against a woman. But if he has
behaved to me so bad and so base, that no
laws  not God's, nor even man's  would
give me back to him "

Mrs. Dill, you must tell me something
more."

Mrs. Dill did tell more. For the first and
last time she unfolded her many wrongs,
and told all. This was not a common case,
and the husband had not cared to conceal
either his unfaithfulness or his cruelty. She
ended, with many heart-sick tears, " I never
will live with him again. He may claim
me, but he shall never get me. Bather
than that, I'll spend every shilling of my
money to get free." (" Your money!"
thought Mr. Bartlett.) " I must and will
save his children and mine. And that's
why I want to have another name, sir ; and
you, having treated me almost as if I was
a friend "

You want a friend's opinion ? "

I want to know, first, if I can be
punished for doing it."

"Why, my good woman, of course not,
excepting by detection."

"And would you tell me, as a friend,
should I be living in a lie ? Is it a moral
wrong to take a new name ? "

i. --

I answer as a friend, that I think not.
But it would be a great risk ; because it
would be to your husband's interest to
search for you."

Yes, sir, and if he found me he would be
master as to the spending of the money, or
I should lead a terrible life with him."

The money is, in fact, now lying in my
hands. The executor did wish to sell the
property, and it is to be reinvested."

You will not let me have even half ? "

"No, because you cannot give me a
receipt that would not still leave me liable
to have your husband come upon me in the
event of your death. Mr. Gordon cannot
give it to you either."

No, sir. Mr. Gordon was saying, though,
that the money might be invested in a way
not generally allowed  laid out, I mean, in
stocking a shop."

Mr. Bartlett here looked steadily into
Hannah Dill's clear, honest eyes. " I half expected
this," he thought. "Well, Mrs. Dill?"

He said, if I could keep a shop "

Yes, if you could keep a shop ? "

"But I said I was afraid; and if I lost
the money, Dill would be so angry."

It was to be kept under your own  I
mean your husband's name ? "

I never mentioned to him about going
by another."

Humph ! "

He said my husband could not object
nor come on you or him afterwards, even if
any money was lost ; on the other hand, I
might make money by trade, and that
surely would not belong to Dill ? "

What did you answer ? "

I did not take to the notion, and I was
thinking about changing my name."

Oh, that was all. Well, now, as regards
Mr. Gordon's remarks, you tell him from
me that he had better look out."

But I did say that I was afraid to keep
a shop."

No matter ; tell him I say he had better
look out. But as to changing your name,
I believe I should change mine under
like circumstances."

Oh, thank you, sir, for saying it ; now,
indeed, I fare to see it cannot be wrong."

"But you must remember, Mrs. "

He paused half an instant, wondering what
name she would take.

Sir, my name is Snaith," she exclaimed.
So quick to take the advice she had
longed for, so afraid some one should enter
and hear her old name.

A clerk at that instant did enter.

"But you must remember, Mrs. Snaith,"
he replied, slowly and steadily ; then paused
to receive and return a message, and
when his clerk had shut the door, went on,
"You must remember, Mrs. Snaith, that
you have many years yet of freedom before
your husband can come and take the
income."

But I have to hide all from his children,
and I want to begin from the first."

Then begin by taking leave of me."

Sir, sir, I mean to do it, though you
have been the best and kindest friend I
have had for a long time."

He then explained to her how she could
receive her income at a distance from the
pace where she lived.

She went away, and the next afternoon
Mr. Gordon desired to speak with him.

(soh, my prophetic soul") "Well,
show him up," said Mr. Bartlett.

Mr. Gordon explained that he had come
about Mrs. Dill's affairs.

"Where is Mrs. Dill?"

She is gone back to the seaside, sir,
with fifty pounds in her pocket as I drew
for her."

You seem to have had some conversation
with her, Mr. Gordon."

Well, I have, sir. But Goodrich's niece

is that soft and that straightforward, that
she's hardly to be trusted with her own
interests."

Mr. Bartlett repeated to the executor
that he had better " look out."

The other replied that he had looked out,
he had been looking out for some time ; and
as to the matter of the investment, he
had a great wish to spend a portion of the
money in buying the goodwill of a business
that he had heard of, and in the stock of
a man about to retire  " a friend of mine,
at Bristol," he began  " a very honest
man."

At Bristol?"

"Ay, sir. A long way off, but a very
honest man."

Hannah Dill has no wish to keep a
shop."

She have altered her mind, sir. She
have taken into consideration that I, being
an old friend and fellow-townsman of

Goodrich's, and, as I have said to her,
I know he would wish it ' '

Now, what might you mean in this
case by an honest man ? "

Well, I might have said to an old friend,
1 Jem Gravison, I am in a fix with poor
Goodrich's niece that have married a convict,
and have been ill-used by him in a
shameful way. Poor Goodrich,' I might
have said, ' have made me his executor, to
take care of his money, and he left word
that it might be laid out in buying the
stock and the goodwill of a business, shoe
trade preferred.' I might have said, ' Jem
Gravison, have you such to sell ? ' and being
a right-down honest man, he might have
made answer, ' Old boy, I have not.' '

At this unexpected conclusion of the
sentence, Mr. Bartlett looked up, surprised.

"But yet, you see, it's a fine thing to
carry out the blessed laws of the land, and
the provisions of poor Goodrich's will ; and

when me and him had corresponded together,
he might have said, ' It's true I did
mean to sell, as witness my advertisement
in the paper ; ' and if as well as that he had
said  which he may have done  that if he
sold to a worse than widow for more than
orphans he would take no advantage  me
knowing that well enough before  I should
call him an honest man."

"And you really mean to tell me," said
Mr. Bartlett, with a stolid face, "that you
think this man's shop and trade and stock
will be a good investment ? "

"I do, sir. And I mean to have everything
properly gone into  the books, the
wally of the goods, bad debts, and whatnot."


"You had better take a little time to
consider this."

"Yes, sir; and I shall want it done in
the most legal way. Nothing like fencing
yourself round with the law, sir. The will

says a part of the property. It never specifies
what part."

"No."

It may be anything short of the whole,
then."

Mr. Bartlett, being a little out of temper,
answered shortly that it might.

His client took some days to consider,
some more to decide how to act, but in the
end the stock-in-trade, shop, and goodwill
of a certain shoe trade, lately the property
of James Gravison, were duly bought and
paid for by the executor of the late H.
Goodrich, on behalf of his niece and her
husband, the said niece to keep the shop.

Mr. Bartlett did not much like the affair,
he therefore took the more care to conduct
it with all legal formality ; and when all was
arranged, it seemed to him to be rather a
suspicious circumstance that the executor
had left that precise portion of property in
his hands which paid what must be called

hush-money to the Goodrich family, and
which, as Mr. Bartlett remarked, would of
course he claimed by the convict husband
when he came forth, the wife's resolution
not binding him at all to dispose of it
thus.

I have not mentioned that to Goodrich's
niece yet, sir," said Mr. Gordon.

Mr. Bartlett said nothing ; he had noticed
the peculiar emphasis on the word yet.

Mr. Gordon informed him, with a certain
open cheerfulness of manner, that he
had caused Hannah Dill's name to be
painted up on the shop ; he also pulled
out a Bristol paper, wherein Hannah Dill
advertised herself as having bought the
stock of the late Thomas Gravison, of his
brother James Gravison, of the United
States of America, and Hannah Dill hoped,
by unremitting attention to business, to
merit the patronage of the public.

That advertisement goes into unnecessary

details," said Mr. Bartlett. " Did Mrs.
Dill indite it ? "

Well, no, sir ; she have not that turn for
business that I could wish. At present she
do not intend to serve in the shop herself,
the children being still so sadly." So
saying, Mr. Gordon gravely folded up the
paper and put it in his pocket.

In the mean time Mrs. Snaith, as she
must now be called, quite unaware of the
various manoeuvres being carried out for
her benefit,  Mrs. Snaith went back to her
children with fifty pounds in her pocket,
besides the money she had obtained by
the sale of all her best and handsomest
clothes. She bought for the two little
ones some very handsome frocks, ribbons,
and toys, spent two or three days in picking
every mark from their clothes and her
own, then packed all up in boxes, with
the name of Mrs. Snaith on them, and
departed, not leaving even at her lodgings

any address, or account of what she might
be going to do.

The children were too young to imperil
the success of her scheme ; neither could
talk. They did not know their own names,
nor where they had come from.

In a short time the convict husband's
day came for writing again. He knew
now, through his brother, of his wife's
good fortune, therefore, of course, his letter
this time was to her.

It had been such an astonishing piece
of news that it had wrought in him a
certain change. He had a profound contempt
for his wife mainly on account of
the love which had induced her to throw
herself away upon him. He believed he
had only to flatter her to have back her
heart.

He wanted her to believe that he was
a reformed character. His letter, therefore,
besides being affectionate in language,

was full of cant, such cant as is commonly
learned in a prison. He meant, when he
had a chance, to show what a changed
character he was ; he even gave her religious
and moral advice, as one already in
such matters her superior. Then, after
lamenting that this money had not come
in time to prevent him from throwing
himself away, he proceeded to assure his
wife that he would make her a happy
woman yet, and with unparalleled impudence
he continued, that he knew it was
hard on her to he away from him so long,
but she was not the woman, he was sure,
to go out of the paths of virtue, and she
must take care of the money, and keep
herself respectable for his sake.

Uzziah Dill sent this letter through his
brother, as he had done the first. He
hoped to write to each of the women once
a year, and to keep it secret from both
that this was the case. 80, not knowing

his wife's address, he trusted to his brother,
directing to him and asking him to read
the letter before sending it on, . that his
dear parents might know how he was.

Jacob Dill saw the game his brother was
trying to play, and felt what a bad fellow
he was; but he justified what Hannah Dill
had said. He took the man's side, being
swayed also by the desire to pacify and
conciliate the woman who had brought
money into the Dill family.

Jacob Dill sent the letter to Mr. Gordon,
asking him to let Hannah have it. Mr.
Gordon, who exhibited great fearlessness
in acting for others, returned it, informing
him that he did not know where Mrs.
Dill was, and that they need not trouble
themselves to send any more letters to
him, as she had means of drawing money
without letting him know where she lived.

This was very bad news for the Dills.
That Mr. Gordon could not send on the

letter was possible, that he would not was
evident. In fact, so bad was the news considered,
that the drunken old father was
sobered by it for the time being, and shaking
his head over this " dispensation of Providence,"
actually went to work at his trade
again.

Mr. Gordon did not inform them that he
had copied the letter ; he did, however,
muttering to himself as he folded it and
put it in his desk, " For Goodrich's niece
is that soft, that she may relent towards the
convict after all. This'll help to keep her
straight towards doing what's right by her
uncle."

VOL. I.

CHAPTEK V.

It was now the middle of July ; the inhabitants
of a beautiful little seaside place
in the south-west of England were cleaning
their windows, hanging up their fresh white
curtains, and putting out placards of the
lodgings they had to let.

There was a smell of paint and tar about ;
the pleasure boats had just been put into
first-rate order, and run up on the beach
in a tempting phalanx, while the sentimental
or patriotic names on their little
pennons hung almost unmoved in the sunny
air. The landladies grumbled, as they
always did every year, said " how short

their season was, and that the visitors were
long of coming."

The prettiest little terrace boasted as yet
of but one lodger, and she, her landlady
said, was but a servant  a nurse with some
children. " However," continued the good
woman, " those that sent her must have
sent good money with her, for she pays
like her betters, I will say. But she keeps
herself mighty close, and has no notion of
being asked any questions." This she said
to her next-door neighbour, as the two
stood to gossip on their respective doorsteps.
"And so particular about the children's
eating ! She's almost worse thana
lady at that."

In about a week matters mended. The
neighbour let her drawing-room floor,
several families appeared on the beach,
flower-girls began to pervade it, a band
played in the evening, and more bathing-machines
were pushed down. Soon there

were many groups of children dotted
about in cheerful proximity to one another,
some with nurses, some with mothers, and
they all pleased themselves with the same
time-honoured toys, buckets, and wooden
spades.

A very respectable-looking and plainly
dressed nurse was sitting one morning on
the beach a little apart from any of these
groups. She was at work, just beyond high-water
mark, and two lovely little children
were playing beside her. One, scarcely a
year old, seated on the nurse's gown, was
complacently patting the shingle with a
wooden spade ; the other had a small cart,
and had attained to such a degree of intelligence
as enabled her to fill it with shells and
seaweed, and drag it on a little way, when
it generally turned over, and the same operation
had to be performed again.

These children were fair, of very refined
appearance ; rather delicate, with pure complexions,
deep-blue eyes, and black lashes.

Some ladies who lodged next door had
several times noticed them and their nurse.
They evidently had no one else with them.
She always kept them delicately clean in
their dress. In the morning they wore
flapping white sun-bonnets, but in the
evening, after their early tea, she used to
dress them up in broidered frocks, and take
them forth upon the little parade, in all
their infantine bravery of pink or blue
sashes and ostrich-feathers.

That woman looks as proud of the
children as if they were her own," observed
one of the ladies ; " their parents may well
trust her with them."

"And how very plainly and neatly she
dresses," replied the other. " I wish any one
of our servants was like her. A clean print
gown in the morning, a neat coburg in the
evening. The children's dress looks twice
as handsome, hers being so unpretending.
I wonder whose children they are."

The nurse, Mrs. Snaith, not at all aware
of trie notice and approval she had attracted,
seated herself the following morning
nearly in her previous place, while, in a
profound calm, the tide was softly coming up.

She looked almost happy, for she was
beginning to feel safe, and accustomed to
her new name. Her position as nurse to
the children had been taken for granted
the moment she appeared ; she had already
overheard remarks made on their lovely and
refined appearance, and her own evident
respectability.

This pleased her. She liked also to observe
the beauty of the shore, and went
on leisurely working, and watching the
water and the two graceful little creatures
beside her.

No air stirred but such as was set in
motion by the slight action of the oncoming
wave ; and presently, in the perfect calm of
the morning, a sea mist began to rise, and

as she looked, the somewhat distant bathing-machines
were already in it.

Presently she herself was in it, and all
the fishing craft hanging about in the harbour
looked as faint as grey ghosts ; but
each boat, being clearly reflected in the
water, seemed to stand up an unnatural
height  it was hard to distinguish it from its
image. The mist did not reach very high;
all above was blue and full of light. She
put down her work to look, and, half unconsciously,
to listen. A crier was pacing
up and down the little terrace behind
her, with his bell. " Oh yes ! oh yes ! a
bracelet was lost on the beach  a gold
bracelet in the form of a snake." The
nurse turned, and, as a flat, neutral-tinted
outline, could just discern the figure of the
crier, as he passed out of hearing. " Oh
yes ! oh yes ! " she heard him begin again,
and then his voice became faint in the
distance, and gave way to other sounds.

There was a strange kind of creaking and a
flapping over the water, but nothing could
be seen ; the fishing-boats were quite invisible.


It interested her inquiring mind to notice
now how all outlines were melting away
into the mist. What could that creaking
be ? There was nothing to make it. Why,
yes, there was ! An enormous high pole,
all aslant, was pushing on right towards
her, and two vast sheets hung aloft behind
it. Why, this was a ship. She could seethe
two gaunt masts now, and the ropes,
some hanging slack, and the mainsail flapping
and coming down. Sailors were
swarming about up there, and now the
beechen came running on to meet the
vessel.

The tide was almost at the height, and
this must be the coal brig that had been
expected, coming up to be beached.

The tall bowsprit appeared to be nearly

hanging over her, before the beechen got
up to the brig's bows ; and then there was
shouting and splashing in the shingle, and
she rose and moved backward with the
children, for the almost formless wave was
washing up close to her feet.

Oh yes! oh yes ! " repeated the crier,
now become audible again. " Oh yes ! a
gold bracelet was lost  a bracelet in the
form of a snake, with pearls for eyes. Whoever
would bring the same to the hotel on
the east cliff, should receive two guineas
reward."

She sat down higher up on the shingle,
and hearkened as the crier's message waxed
loud, and then faint again ; and she watched
how the heavy rope from the brig was made
fast to a clumsy wooden windlass, and how,
with stamping and chanting, the beach-men
began to turn this round. All was
new and fresh to her ; and the mist, which
generally turns with the tide, had already

fallen back a little, dropping behind the
nearest fishing-vessels, and giving them
and their shadows back to the sunshine,
before she tired of gazing and, chancing to
look round, noticed on her right, and almost
close at hand, one of the ladies next door,
who, seated also, was smiling on the elder
child and trying to attract her.

She is not shy, ma'am," said Mrs.
Snaith ; " she will come to you. Shake
hands with the lady, missy."

Steps were now heard behind, crashing
through the shingle.

Mrs. Snaith," cried a young girl,
mother says she can get no milk this
morning ; and what is she to make instead
of the pudding, for your little ladies ? "

Dear me!" exclaimed the nurse, " no
milk ? And so fanciful as the dears are !
You must tell your mother to boil them
each an egg y and to mind they are as fresh
as fresh."

They are delicate ? " asked the lady.

Yes, ma'am, bless them ; very delicate."

In the mean time the elder child had
broken loose from the stranger's caresses.

Pretty dears ! " said the lady. " What
is their name? "

That one's name is Mabel."

Oh, I meant their surname."

A sudden bound at the nurse's heart ; for
an instant a pause. Then, recovering herself,
" Missy, missy ! " she cried, starting
up, " don't go too near the edge; you'll wet
your precious feet.  Now, to think of that
question coming so soon, and me not ready
for it!" she muttered; and she hastened
along the shingle with the younger child
in her arms ; and, setting her down, took
up the elder, who, by various acts of infantile
rebellion, did what she could to
continue the fascinating play of slapping
the water with a long banner of dulse.

In the mean time the little one filled

both her hands with what she could find,
and the two were shortly carried np by
Mrs. Snaith, one under each arm.

I must take them in at once, ma'am,"
she remarked, as she hastily passed the
lady. " Missy is so wet."

Her face was flushed, and when she got
to a safe distance from her questioner, she
sat down to take a short rest.

The mist had almost melted away. How
grand the brig looked ! She thought she
had never seen anything more beautiful
than the shape of her bows, with reflections
of the receding water wavering allover
them.

Something nearer than the wave was
sparkling. The baby had something fast in
her dimpled fist, and was recklessly striking
the stones with it, uttering little cries of
pleasure when she saw it flash as she
knocked it about.

A costly toy! The gold bracelet, the
snake with pearls for eyes !

That same evening, when Mrs. Snaith
had put her two little nurslings to bed, she
left them in charge of her landlady's
daughter, and, dressed in her neatest and
plainest habiliments, set forth to find the
hotel on the east cliff, and return the
bracelet to its owner.

There was never seen a better embodiment
of all that a servant ought to be (from
the mistress's point of view), than she
appeared on that occasion. She was very
desirous to have certain things taken for
granted, that she might be asked no questions.
" Are these your children ?" would
have been an awkward inquiry. She had
made it a very unlikely one. She was so
unassuming, so quiet, so respectable in her
manner, so unfashionable and economical in
her attire, that the position in which she
stood toward them had appeared to be
evident to every one ; but during the whole
of this evening walk, even to the moment

when she found herself sitting in the hall of
the hotel, while a waiter went upstairs to
announce her errand, she kept revolving in
her rind the question of the morning, and
wishing she could decide on a name for the
children.

For, as has before been said, this woman
in somewhat humble life, and used to
common fashions, had thoughts not common,
not humble. She had indulged a high
ambition. A form of self-sacrifice that most
mothers would shrink from as intolerable,
had fully shaped itself in her mind, and
become a fixed intention. She had deliberately
planned to wait on her own children
as their nurse, as such to bring them up,
and never let them know that they were
hers.

For the next eleven years at least she could
bring them up in comfort, and educate them
well; after that, she had every hope that
their wretched father would not be able to

find her. But, lest such should be the case,
she meant to give them a name different
from her own, almost at once ; to begin to
earn money, so that before there was a
chance of a ticket of leave for her husband,
she could put them to a good school, and
having found a guardian for them, leave
money enough in his hands to last till they
were of an age to go out themselves as
governesses. Having made this arrangement,
she intended to leave them, deliberately
deciding to hear of them and to see
them no more.

She would then, indeed, have lost her
children. If she were unhappy enough to
be found by their wretched father, she would
tell him so.

With her mind full of all this, she sat in
the hall of the hotel, and her only half-attentive
eyes rested on some boxes, with a
name painted on them 

Captain de Berenger, Madras, Neither

owner was evidently on his way to
the east, and the name of the ship he was
to sail in was painted on them also.

Presently a lady and gentleman came
down, and began to excuse themselves for
having kept her waiting, on the ground that
they were in a hurry  just off.

They seemed to be a newly married
couple, and while the lady expressed her
pleasure at getting the bracelet back, the
gentleman was evidently fumbling in his
purse for the reward.

It seemed so hard to lose it," said the
lady, clasping the trinket on slowly, as if to
give her husband time. " I had quite given
it up, for we are off almost directly by the
express for Southampton. We cannot
wait.  Tom ! "

Tom was still not ready. " What did we
say ? " he whispered. " Two, or three ? "

Sir," cried Mrs. Snaith, now perceiving
the state of affairs, " indeed I could not
think of such a thing."

"Oh, but we offered a reward!" exclaimed
the lady. " Captain de Berenger
offered a reward. Pray take it."

"No, ma'am; I don't need it. Indeed,
you are kindly welcome."

Well, at least shake hands, then, and
thank you very much indeed ; " and all their
boxes being already placed on a fly, the lady
and gentleman drove off in a hurry, nodding
and repeating their thanks till the fly turned
a corner.

De Berenger," thought Mrs. Snaith;
now, that name seems as if it really would
do. It has a kind of a foreign sound. It's
uncommon. I fare to take to it, and it's
not too uncommon neither. There's De
Berenger, the baker, at Bristol, and there's
a shop at Pentonville with that name on the
door. These people, too, are off to India ;
they'll never know I borrowed their name
from their boxes. I shall not forget how it
was spelt, nor how it goes. And I must be

VOL. I. I

quick, for tomorrow the man will come
round again to print the visitors' names in
the paper. Mine must not go in again
Mrs. Snaith and two children.' "

So that evening Mrs. Snaith overhauled
the children's toys. On one little wooden
spade she printed in clear letters, " Mabel
de Berenger;" on the other, " Delia de
Berenger."

Her eldest child she had named after the
young lady whose maid and reader she had
been, and had always called her " Missy,"
as she had called her namesake. Her
younger child she had named Delia, partly
in remembrance of a tender little song that
her husband had sung during the few kind
days that had followed their marriage, partly
because she had a natural ear for pleasant
sounds ; and she felt that this now disregarded
name was a very beautiful one.
Their baptismal names, therefore, the children
retained, and received the new surname
of De Berenger.

The remainder of the evening she spent
in marking some of their pinafores and
other clothing ; and this done, without any
assertion of their name, she let things take
their course.

It was only a very few days after this that
Mrs. Snaith was startled hy an elderly
man, who, stopping short in front of her,
accosted her with, "Well, and how are
you, ma'am ? Finely, I hope. You look
so."

Mr. Gordon ! "

Don't he startled," he continued ;
there's not a soul within earshot  not
even my friend that came with me. I
wouldn't go to your lodgings. We have been
about on the beach looking for you. Nobody
in life "  seeing her look disturbed
"nobody in life know your address but
me only. I said in life, for we have no
reason to think that H. Goodrich know
what I am about to do  I wish he did  and

thereby you may be sure it's all right and
straight''

Mrs. Snaith said she was sure of that ;
and he sat down beside her on the shingle,
admired the children, one of whom was
asleep, and the other eating some luncheon,
and then went on  

Now, look here, H. Goodrich's niece,
I told you the will would allow of my buying
a stock-in-trade on your behalf, and I sent
you the document here to be signed as
legal as could be. It cost twenty pound,
that transaction did. I bought the stock.
'Twill cost you seven pound ten more, for
I had to go to Bristol on your affairs and
come here this day, which I cannot afford
on my own cost, as H. Goodrich was well
aware."

I'll pay it, sir, and thank you too."

Well, having bought this stock-in-trade
for you, I have nothing more to do with
that part of the trust money (as I hope),

the part that bring in one hundred and
fifty pound a year. But a party that knew
your uncle, and have come down here 
and, let rue say, would on no hand wrong
the widow and the orphan  he have something
to say to you. You know what payable
to bearer means ? "

Yes, I believe I do."

Such things you know of, as foreign
bonds. Say United States bonds. Those
are very good securities, and are made
payable to bearer. They'll pass from
hand to hand like a bank-note ; you just
show 'em and you take your money. That
would be the best thing for you to have."

Better than the stock-in-trade ? "

Better by half."

But, bless you, sir, why did you buy
the stock-in-trade for me, then ; and make
out it was such a fine thing to do ? "

Why did I ? That's where it is. That's
where it is, H. Goodrich's niece. And this

I call you, seeing you want to keep your
name to yourself. You couldn't get at
your money, you perceive, before I did
that."

"No. But can I now?"

I should calculate you bought the stock-in-trade,
meaning, in the way of trade, to sell
it again. Detail or wholesale  or wholesale,"
he repeated presently, when she remained
silent.

Well, sir, I was afraid the person you
put in to sell would be a great expense
to me. Then you think, if I gain ever so
little, I ought to sell wholesale if I get a
chance ? "

"You won't gain anything at all. A
document being wanted, you'll lose several
pound. And Tve no advice to give you,
H. Goodrich's niece." The twinkle in
his eyes seemed to show joy and triumph.
He beckoned to a man near at hand.
There he is. If you want to have what

you paid for the stock-in-trade (all but what
I specified) in your own hand, payable to
bearer, United States bonds, there's the
man that will buy your shoes of you, and
that have a document in his pocket, and a
ink-bottle and pen, that you may sign
handy. All I need add is, I wish H. Goodrich
was here to see his money rescued
from the grasp of a convict. "

"Are you sure it's legal, and won't get
you into any trouble ?" exclaimed H. Goodrich's
niece, when the other man had come
up, and from a bundle of papers was sorting
out one for her to sign.

Well, so far as we can make out, it is.
He"  pointing out his friend  "he have no
call to quake, and I expect the thing will
hold. All I shall ask is, H. Goodrich's
niece, that you keep your distance, and
never let me know anything about you.
I can get into no trouble for eleven year
at the least. If I should then (and not

likely), you'll promise me you'll always,
wherever you be, take the Suffolk Chronicle ;
and if I'm in life then, and you see an
advertisement in it letting you know I've
got into trouble, then you'll have to write
to me. But I'm not afraid. There's a
pretty little income  over thirty pounds a
year  left in my hands, and if a certain
party made himself unpleasant and wanted
the rest of it, he could be threatened with
a suit in the Divorce Court, and I think
he'll be glad enough to let things be."

The purchase was legal, ma'am," observed
the stranger; "your executor has
the papers to prove it."

"And when our friend is going to take
the boots and shoes is neither here nor
there," proceeded Mr. Gordon.

You'll take notice, though," continued
the stranger, " that bonds and what not,
made payable to bearer, are in one sense
very ticklish property to keep. If they get

burnt you've no remedy ; if you lose them
you've no remedy ; or lose one, and whoever
finds it holds it and gets the money. And
I don't mean to say as you can always
reckon on the same sum for them, not to
a shilling or even a pound, because the
dollar varies slightly in value, you know."

I'll sign the paper," said Hannah Dill
at last. "I fare to understand that I'm a
free woman for good and all, and I'm deeply
obliged to you both."

Chapter VI.

And now the document which sold her
stock-in-trade to J. Gravison having been
duly signed by Hannah Dill (who for many
a long day never used that name again), a
large, awkward shaped bundle of papers
having been consigned to her, and Mr.
Gordon having again remarked " that where
those boots and shoes were going, and
where the purchaser might be going, was
neither here nor there," the two friends
made as if they would withdraw; but this
did not at all suit the notions of the convict's
wife.

She longed to give them at least a dinner,
and after a little pressing they agreed that

she should ; and she left them on the beach,
while she hastened to her lodgings with
her children and the papers, where, having
secured the latter, and taken out money for
her executor's expenses, she got her landlady
to take charge for a few hours of the
former.

"Certain," quoth the landlady, "I'll see
to your little ladies, ma'am, with the greatest
pleasure ; don't you dorrit about them."

So Mrs. Dill came forth again, and conducted
the two friends to a respectable
public-house, much frequented by sea captains
and farming people.

Here, while they sat in a green bower
out-of-doors and smoked, she ordered and
assisted to produce such a dinner as might
be a credit to her taste and her generosity,
and a thing to be remembered ever after.

It was not ready till half-past three, the
two guests having been more than ready
for some time.

First appeared dishes for which the place
was famous  soused mackerel at one end,
and at the other hot lobsters, served whole,
with brown bread and butter and bottled
porter.

After this came a rump steak pie with
fresh young onions, also a green goose, and
abundance of peas and kidney potatoes.
With this course the company drank beer.
One of the guests observed with conviction
that even a Guildhall dinner could not beat
this, and the other remarked that it was
what he called " a square meal."

Next came an apricot pudding with a jug
of cream, and a dish of mince-pies, blue
with the spiral flame of the lighted rum
they were served in.

All this took time, but at every fresh call
on their efforts the guests fell to again,
nothing daunted ; there was no flagging
but in the conversation.

With the cheese and dessert appeared

port, and the affair concluded with, more
pipes in the arbour, and some gin and water.

It was a great success.

In the cool of the evening they said they
must depart, and each giving an arm
to H. Goodrich's niece, they walked in
high good humour, and very steadily on
the whole, to the railway station, she seeing
them off, with many thanks on her part
for their kindness, and on theirs for her
hospitality.

Mrs. Snaith then hastened to her lodgings.
Already her peculiar position had
made her cautious and reserved. She seldom
began a conversation, or volunteered any
information, however trifling, which gave
others an opening for asking questions.

She found the children asleep and well,
thanked her landlady, and, seeing her weekly
bill on the table, paid it, and said she should
stay on.

The landlady retired. She began to understand

her lodger; she found her a just
woman to reckon with, though not one to
waste words.

Why, if she bought her words by the
dozen," thought the good woman, " and
was always considering how to use them
to the best advantage, and make them goas
far as they would, she could not any way
be more mean with them."

Mrs. Snaith, asking no questions, did not
hear how much " the little ladies " had
been admired that day, nor how much
curiosity they had excited.

For the small place being very full of
visitors, the landlady and her young daughter
had amused themselves during their
lodger's absence by sitting in the open
window of her pleasant parlour, which was
downstairs, and watching "the company,"
while little Miss Amabel and Miss Delia
played about the room with their toys.

It was a pride and joy to them to see the

place so crowded, and to observe trie newcomers
looking about for lodgings.

Little Amabel in the mean time was
setting out a row of wooden tea things on
the sill of the window, and the baby Delia,
who could but just walk alone, trotted upto
her to admire, and presently began to
toss some of them out on to the pavement
below.

This was a fine thing to have done, and
the little creatures looked on with deep
interest, while the landlady's daughter,
called 'Ria, went down the steps of the
street door, and fetched them in again.

Little Delia, having tasted the joy of this
small piece of mischief, now threw out her
shore-spade, while Amabel, not to be outdone,
filled a toy wooden bucket with the
animals from a Noah's ark, and one by
one sent them after it; the long-suffering
'Ria going out, with unwise patience, to
collect and bring them back, as if the

vagaries of children were no more under
human control than are the rising of the
wind or the changes of the moon.

How tiresome gentlefolk's children are,
mother ! " she said at last, when, to the
amusement of the ladies next door, who
were reading novels on a hence, she came
forth for the eleventh time and picked up
two elephants and a canary; " why, they
give ten times the trouble that we do when
we're little."

Ay," answered the mother, with a sage
air of conviction, "it's all very well to say
they're the same flesh and blood as we are ;
there's that difference, anyhow. You won't
easy deceive me ; I'd undertake to tell a
gentleman's child by it anywhere. They've
no responsibility in 'em either. Why, a big
child five year old will run away from her
nurse, and her nurse just has to run after
her, while at that age you took the baby
as then was on the beach, and had Tom
to take care of with you."

"But they're minded," said the girl;
that's why they can't seem to grow amj
responsibility of their own."

There ! " said one of the ladies to the
other, "that girl is putting away the
Noah's ark and giving the child a doll to
play with. I wonder she did not think of
doing so before. Look ! there comes the
spade again."

Two lovely little faces looked out as before,
and some infantile babble was heard,
but no landlady's daughter came forth to
bring it in ; so, lest it should be lost to its
small possessor, one of the ladies, before
she went indoors, picked it up, intending
to bring it to the window.

"Amabel de Berenger!" she exclaimed,
reading the name. "Why, Mary, these
children are De Berengers ! I wonder which
branch of the family they belong to ? "

Not to the old baronet's," observed the
other. " His sons are unmarried; at least,

VOL. I. K

Tom de Berenger was only married a few
weeks ago, and was here till lately on his
wedding tour."

They may be strangers from another
neighbourhood," observed the first. " The
name is not so very uncommon ; V and she
came to the outside of the window, giving
the spade to its dimpled owner, remarking
to the landlady that she was intimate with
one family of De Berengers, and asking
where these children came from.

The landlady did not know, and little
miss was backward with her tongue, as
delicate children often were. They only
had a nurse with them, she said, and she
looked at the spade with just a little touch
of curiosity.

Dear me!" said the lady. "I should
like to see that nurse again ; but, unfortunately,
we go away this evening. Perhaps
these are Mr. Richard de Berenger's
children, and their parents may be coming."

"I think not, ma'am," replied the landlady.
Ct I have not heard of it."

Thereupon, having kissed the children,
this lady departed, and the landlady said
to her daughter, " Well, 'Eia, my girl, only
think how I have wished to ask Mrs. Snaith
who the children were, and didn't seem to
think she would like it, she being so close,
and yet all the time here was their name
as plain as print for anybody that liked to
look at it!"

You didn't know their name, mother ?"
cried the girl.

No ; I say I didn't. Did you ? "

Well, I don't know as I gave it a
thought that she hadn't mentioned it, till
one night (last week I think it was) I
noticed it on some pinafores that she sent
to the wash."

It just shows what fancies folks take
in their heads," observed the landlady.
I felt as sure as could be she didn't want

to tell who they were, and so I never asked
her; and now look!" She held up the
spade and laughed.

They might be that parson's children,"
said the girl; " him that was here three
summers ago, mother, in our house, with
his boy brother and his aunt."

Hardly," answered the mother; "he
was not a married man then, I know."

"My!" cried the girl, "how those two
used to teaze that aunt, the lady that
would always be talking of her will. I
was so little then, they used to go on while
I was waiting, and not mind me. Well,
to be sure, what a silly old thing she was ! "
And you were always as handy as could
be. To see you wait, so little as you were,
has made many a lodger laugh," observed
the mother, with pleasant pride in her offspring.


Here the conversation ended, Mrs.
Snaith never hearing of the questions that

had been asked concerning the children,
nor of the reminiscences of 'Ria and her
mother. The half of either, if duly reported,
would have changed her plans entirely,
and changed her children's destiny
and her own.

Mrs. Snaith quickly found that she was
living very much beyond her income, so she
very soon went away from that little seaside
place ; but her delicate children had improved
during their stay so much, that she
proposed to come back again when the
season was quite over, and rooms might be
had for an almost nominal rent, to give
them again the benefit of the fine air.

She thus betrayed to the landlady her
expectation that these children would be
some time under her sole charge and control.
The good woman was all the more
deferential to her in consequence, and finding
her more reticent day by day, took
care to let her depart without asking her a
single question.

Mrs. Snaith thought what a nice hardworking
woman she was  one who minded
her own business, and had no idle curiosity
in her  and she was perhaps beguiled by this
opinion into the only piece of confidence
she offered, namely, that she had brought
these children from London.

She established herself about twelve miles
inland, in a small village, where she found
a decent little cottage to let. She wanted
to save money, that she might send her
darlings, when they were old enough, to a
good school; but, meanwhile, she dressed
them well and waited on them with the
devoted love of a mother, combined with
her assumed position of nurse.

It was enough to satisfy and make happy
and cheerful a mind constituted as hers.
She grew stout, looked well and serene, and
month by month her darlings became
fresher and fatter ; only little Delia, as she
fancied, sometimes limped a little on her

right foot, and this made her anxious, considering
the child's parentage.

There were no mothers in the village
whom she could consult, excepting the wives
of two small farmers, and they both recommended
that little miss should be taken to
the shore to paddle in the salt water. They
were sure that was what the father would
approve.

It had come to be thought there  a
thought which had grown out of the remarks
of the villagers one to another  that
the children's father was abroad : that they
had lost their mother seemed to be evident.
Mrs. Snaith  her security in that obscure
place having been so complete  did not
think of stepping forth again into the inquisitive
world without a pang. She had taken
up her new name and position in a far more
confident spirit than she now felt in carrying
them on. Month by month she became
more afraid of ultimate detection, not so

much by the wretched father, as by the
children themselves.

She had lived in her tiny cottage two
years, and their infantile intelligence was
equal already to the perception (a false
one, but not the less tenaciously held)
that there was a difference of rank between
them and their dear nurse. They could by
no means have expressed this, but every one
about them helped it to unconscious growth.

Amabel was six years old. In her sweet
humility the mother considered herself not
equal to teaching even so much as the
alphabet to a child destined to be herself a
teacher.

She had tried hard to divest herself of
her provincial expressions, some of which
her dear lady had pointed out to her. In
many cases she had succeeded, but her
grammar was faulty, and certain peculiarities
of language clung yet to her daily
English. She wanted little Amabel to

speak well from the first, and she went to a
poor but well-educated old lady  the late
clergyman's sister, who boarded in a farmhouse
near her cottage  and proposed to her
to teach the child for two or three hours
a day. Miss Price said she should be delighted
to teach little Miss de Berenger, and
she instilled into her mind, while so doing,
various notions not out of place considering
the position she supposed her to hold. She
must remember that she was a young lady.
She must never talk in a sing-song tone,
as her good nurse did ; that was provincial.
Her dear papa would be much vexed if she
used such and such expressions. No doubt
she often thought about her dear papa, and
wished that he should be pleased with heron
his return.

Little Amabel was a docile child : she
did begin to wish to please this dear papa.
In her infantile fashion she felt a strange
attraction toward him, and set him in her

mind far above the tender woman whose
care and pride she was, while, like most
other children who have a governess and
a nurse, she gave her kisses to the nurse,
and talked like the governess.

But little Delia, in case her ankle was
really weak, must have every advantage,
whatever happened. So Mrs. Snaith wrote
to her former landlady, asking the price
of rooms, and was told that if she could
come at a particular time mentioned,
between two other " lets," she should
have some cheap. She felt, when she appeared
at the door with the children, that
she had not gained courage, though she
had been on the whole very happy; she
knew the day must come when she would
be confronted by awkward questions. She
had often rehearsed in her mind the words
she would use in reply. They were to be
very few and simple, and long reflection
had made her aware that her danger of

self-betrayal would lie most in the way
she met matters that were taken for granted.

The landlady thought her more "close"
than ever. " I did not expect to see your
little ladies so much grown arid so rosy,"
she remarked. " I thought, ma'am, you
said Miss Delia was not well."

"It was only that I thought her ankle
was weak," said Mrs. Snaith, anxiously.
"I fared to think she turned one of her
feet in more than the other when she
walked."

This conversation took place while the
landlady cleared away breakfast the day
after Mrs. Snaith' s arrival. " Many children
do that," quoth the good woman,
impelled, spite of her own interest, to make
a suggestive observation. " Why, dear
me, ma'am, their father will be a strange
gentleman if he is not satisfied, when he
returns, that you have done the best anybody
could for them."

She was rewarded for once. Mrs. Snaith
coloured all over her honest, homely face ;
concealment did not come easily to her.
She answered that she had no reason at
all to think he would not he satisfied, and
her reply, considering the character of this
said father, seemed to herself almost ridiculous
; she knew well that he cared for
their welfare not a straw. And the landlady,
not having been contradicted, supposed
herself to know that the children's
father was abroad.

Mrs. Snaith fell easily into her old habit
of sitting at work on the beach while she
watched the children playing at the edge
of the wave. They were very much grown.
Both were lovely, and in all respects unlike
herself. She instinctively kept apart from
the other nurses and children. Her quiet
life went on in a great silence, yet she was
happy; love and service contented her.
She was safe for a long while to come from

the husband whose drunken brawls had made
life a misery, and whose crimes had kept
her in constant fear. She was freed from
want, and that alone was enough to make
her wake every morning in a conscious
state of thankfulness.

The fortnight she had meant to stay at
the seaside had almost come to an end,
and she was watching Delia one afternoon,
and feeling almost contented with her
pretty little white ankles  that slight
something, whatever it had been, habit or
weakness, had almost disappeared, and,
lovely and rosy, the little creature was
paddling in the water with her sister  when
clear through the still air rang a voice that
she recognized, as its owner came up
briskly to her side.

Why, there's that nurse again, the
person that I told you of! And the children
with her. There they all are, I declare
! "

Mrs. Snaith turned slowly, and saw the
lady who had asked the children's name
two years ago. She had never forgotten her,
nor that her landlady had called her Miss
Thimblebyby. They hurried up.

You have forgotten me, perhaps ? "

No, ma'am."

They sat down near her. " I saw the
children's name on their spades," said Miss
Thimhlehy. " This "  pointing out the
other lady with an air as if she was giving
some intelligence that must be most welcome
 " this is Miss de Berenger."

Indeed, ma'am," said Mrs. Snaith, with
slow and quiet caution ; and she lifted attentive
eyes to the stranger, who nodded and
smiled.

Yes, I am Miss de Berenger. You
have heard him speak of me, no doubt ? "

"Him?"

He was always my favourite," continued
the lady, who seemed both glad

and excited, " and of course he must have
mentioned me. Indeed, I am sure of it."

This was rather a startling speech.

I don't understand you, ma'am," said
Mrs. Snaith, slowly. She looked again at
Miss de Berenger. It did not require much
penetration to see that she was not a wise
woman ; her style of dress alone might have
suggested this thought, if there had been
nothing else about her to do it.

"And I have looked for you repeatedly,
and told my nephew Felix all about you;
but we never could find you, either of us."

u Looked for us ! Indeed, ma'am, may
I ask why ? "

1 ' Why ? why ? ' ' exclaimed Miss Thimblebyby,
with reproachful astonishment. " Do I really
hear you asking why ? "

A little useful resentment here rising
in Mrs. Snaith's breast enabled her to
answer rather sharply, " Yes, you do." And
she looked again at the lady who had been
mentioned as Miss de Berenger.

She was a slender, upright little woman
of between fifty and sixty, nearer to the latter
age. Her hair, not precisely red, was yet
too near that colour to pass for golden. It
was abundant for her time of life, free from
grey, and dressed in long loose curls, so
light and " fluffy," that they blew about
with the slightest movement in the air.
Her dress was of that reddish purple which
makes orange look more conspicuous. She
had a green parasol, wore a good deal of
jewelry, had a jaunty air, and might have
passed for little more than forty  so brisk
and youthful was she  but that her cheeks
were streaked with the peculiar red of an
apple that has been kept into the winter 
a bright, fixed hue, which early in life is
scarcely ever seen.

The other lady was very plainly dressed,
and seemed to be under thirty. She started
up on hearing Mrs. Snaith's last word, and
going to the edge of the wave, brought back

with her the two children, who, a little
surprised by Miss de Berenger's gay appearance,
stood gazing at her for a moment,
their shining bare feet gleaming white on the
sand, and their rosy mouths pouting with
just the least little impatience at being
taken away from the water.

The very image of him ! " exclaimed
Miss de Berenger, shaking back her curls
and clasping her hands. " Come and kiss
me, my pretty ones."

The children, with infantile indifference,
gave the required kisses, looked at the lady,
looked at Mrs. Snaith; but the one was
drying her eyes, the other watchful, to
discover what this might mean. She turned
cold, but did not look at her darlings, so
they took the opportunity to slip away and
run back to the water.

Where is their father now ? " asked Miss
de Berenger. " Ah, I was very fond of him.
If he had only stopped at home, I should

VOL. I. L

Sarah DE BEEENGEE.

have left him everything." A twinkling in
her eyes seemed to promise tears. She
wiped them again, though these proofs of
feeling had not come. " Where is he ? "

I don't know, ma'am," said Mrs. Snaith,
who now laid down her work, to hide the
trembling of her hands.

He is abroad, of course ? "

Ma'am, I am not sure."

Both answers perfectly true.

The reluctance to speak was evident ; it
seemed to astonish Miss de Berenger, even
to the point of making her silent.

"Why, surely," exclaimed the other
lady, with a certain air of severity, as if by
the weight of her disapproval she hoped
to oppress Mrs. Snaith into giving her
testimony  " surely you can have no
objection to answer a few questions  such
natural questions as these, nurse ! "

Perhaps she has had her orders,"
murmured Miss de Berenger.

Mrs. Snaith for the moment was much
surprised at this question. Under whose
orders could they think she was ?

Unless that is the case," said Miss
Thiinbleby, with uncivil directness, " I cannot
understand what reason you can have
for concealing anything from Miss de
Berenger  what good reason."

Again indignation came to the aid of
Mrs. Snaith. She rose on hearing this,
took up the children's shoes and socks, and
turning her back on the two ladies, went
down to the water's edge, and called her
little barefooted treasures to come to her.

Chapter VII.

Mrs. Snaith had no sooner got away from
the two ladies, than she began to wonder
why she had been so much alarmed. She
had hardly understood at first that Miss de
Berenger claimed the children as relations.
And why," she thought, " should this
have frightened me ? I have no presence
of mind at all. I should have told her she
was mistaken, and there would have been
an end. Folks cannot take them from me ;
and if I make it seem to everybody that
I am their nurse, and allow that their
father is living, it's natural  I fare to see
now  that people should think I must be
under his orders,"

She turned while seated on the sand,
fitting on little boots. Miss de Berenger
was behind her.

We did not mean to offend you," she
exclaimed, shaking back her curls. "I am
sure, nurse, you are doing your duty by the
darlings, but "

"I am not offended with you, ma'am,"
answered Mrs. Snaith, when she stopped
short. " Anybody can see that you are
quite the lady, and had no thought of being
rude."

u Then I wish you would be a little more
open, nurse. You say you do not know
where their father is, but you might at least
tell me how long it is since you heard from
him."

Mrs. Snaith pondered, then gave the
truth. " Two years and three months,
ma'am. But will you sit down a minute ?
Eun on, my pretty ones."

The children, nothing loth, obeyed. Miss
de Berenger sat down.

Ma'am, you make it plain that you think
these children must be related to you."

Of course ; I am sure of it."

Well, ma'am, then it is my duty to tell
you that they are not. You don't owe
them any kindness, I do assure you. They
are not related to you at all."

"Not that you know of," said Miss de
Berenger, in correction. "But," she
continued, "there might be family reasons,
you must allow  very important family
reasons  for not telling you everything
about them."

She was perfectly polite in her manner,
but this pertinacity alarmed Mrs. Snaith
again. What should she say next ? She
had not decided, when Miss de Berenger
went on 

Did he tell you to bring them here ?
Because, if he did, it must have been on
purpose that I or some of us might find
them out, and acknowledge them."

Here was at least a suggestion which
could be met and denied.

Nobody told me to bring them here,
ma'am. I do assure you I did it wholly to
please myself, and out of my own head."

"Well, well, Felix must be told of this,"
said Miss de Berenger, not at all convinced.
She twisted one of her curls over rather
a bony finger. " I shall consult Felix, and
he will soon get to the root of the matter."

"I don't think Felix will," thought Mrs.
Snaith, and a furtive smile, in spite of
herself, gleamed in her eyes.

"But, surely," continued the good lady,
you can have no motive for being more
reticent with me than with the person in
whose lodgings you are. She knows that
you brought the children first from London,
that their father is away, and that they
have lost their mother, for she told us so."

"Did she, ma'am?" said Mrs. Snaith;
and pondering the matter in her mind,

she felt sure she had never said they had
lost their mother.

You are entrusted with the entire
charge of them," was the next question;
is it not so ? "

"Yes; they have no one to look after
them hut me."

They are very like the family, and so
my friend remarked, when she saw them
here some time ago."

Do you mean that person who was with
you just now?" quoth Mrs. Snaith. She
was still offended with her.

She is quite a lady," exclaimed Miss de
Berenger instantly, losing sight of the
matter in hand to defend this person.
"It is true that she has married Mr. de
Berenger's fellow-curate, which was a most
imprudent thing to do (and everybody said
so), particularly as he had been plucked at
college till he had hardly a feather left on
him; hut she would have him, and they

were married, and had twin children with
lightning rapidity. She is come here with
me tcLget cured, if possible, of a bad cough
that she has had ever since some months
before their birth. But, indeed, what could
she expect, going out as she did when the
roads were blocked up with snow, and the
thermometer yards below zero ? "

The lady in question now made herself
audible, as she came pounding down through
the shingle to join them. It was evident
to her keen observation that no fresh
information had been obtained.

Mrs. Snaith rose, and, preparing to follow
the children, made a bow to Miss de
Berenger; whereupon the mother of twins
said coldly 

Miss de Berenger is very much hurt,
and very much surprised too  that I can
plainly see  by the way in which you have
repelled her kind advances. The children's
true interests are evidently very far from

your thoughts. You can only think of
your own."

Good afternoon, ladies," said the Jiurse,
tossing her head rather haughtily ; and she
passed on, half frightened again. There
was a self-satisfied air of authority in the
speaker, and something threatening in her
tone, which, under the circumstances, was
very ridiculous, and yet a certain effect was
produced on her who knew those circumstances
best.

Not even a mother could seriously believe
that any one wanted to steal her children.
Mrs. Snaith did not reach that point of
folly; but she felt uneasy and insecure, as
if, having ceased to admit her maternity,
she had lost power over them.

Her boxes were already packed, she
having previously intended going away by
that evening's train ; and she was truly
glad that the little chaise was at the door
and the two children in it, when, Miss de

Berenger coming up with her friend, she
noticed the puzzled look of the one and
the displeasure of the other.

She had hid her landlady good-bye, and
had directed her driver to the station, when
the voice of the late Miss Thimblebyby struck
on her ear. " Why, the woman's actually
running away ! ' '

"Drive on," said Mrs. Snaith.

"Running away, ma'am!" cried the landlady,
looking after the chaise as it bore off
her late lodgers. " Quite the contrary, I
do assure you. Mrs. Snaith would have
been very thankful to stay, if I could have
kept her. As it is, I've let her stop on till
I'm very hard drove to clean up for my
next 'let.' Nobody ever l runs away ' from
this place ; and goodness knows there's
little need, so healthy and bracing as
it is."

Miss de Berenger hastened to say something
complimentary concerning the place,

and, in return, the landlady obliged her
with the address of her late lodger.

About ten days after this, while Mrs.
Snaith, already calmed by a sense of remoteness
from observation, was pleasing
herself with the certainty that her little Delia
walked now as well as other children, Miss
de Berenger took an opportunity to open
her mind to her nephew, and fill him with
a vague sense of responsibility towards
these children.

Felix de Berenger was seven and twenty,
a bachelor. He had lately been presented
to a living, a very small one in point of
income, but having a good-sized and comfortable
house attached to it, a most excellent
garden, two fields, an orchard, and
a poultry yard.

To this place he had thankfully removed
what little furniture he possessed, together
with his books and his two brothers ; also
the nurse who had brought up the younger

of these, and now, with a village girl to
help her, did all the work of the parsonage,
including the care of a cow and a pig.

His circumstances were peculiar. While
he was yet almost in infancy, his father's
regiment had been ordered to India, and
he had been left behind. Several children,
born to his parents during the next few
years, had died in early childhood, and
they had returned to England for the year's
leave with one only, a boy just eight years
younger than Felix.

The mother made great lamentation over
the loss of her children, from the hot
climate not suiting them. She left the
second son behind also, and returning to
India with her husband, the same misfortune
overtook her again  her infants died ;
and it was not till after her final return to
her native country that the youngest of her
surviving children was born. He was now
between seven and eight years old  a delicate

little fellow, childlike in appearance,
fully nineteen years younger than his eldest
brother, and, being already orphaned, wholly
dependent on the said brother both for
maintenance and affection.

Miss de Berenger, a woman of good fortune,
had come to stay with her dear
nephew Felix, and, in her own opinion, to
help him. She loved to scheme for other
people, but out of her ample means she
afforded them nothing but schemes.

Yet she was not accounted mean, for she
was perfectly consistent. If people render
help to those near to them at intervals,
which are felt to be remote, or if their
frequent presents are considered to be inadequate,
they are thought ungenerous;
but if they never give anything at all,
they often escape from such an imputation.
The minds of others are at rest concerning
them, the looking out for needed assistance
not being connected with them.

The late Mrs. de Berenger had considered
her husband's only brother to be extremely
mean ; and this was mainly because once,
when her little Dick was a baby, he had
caused his wife, with profuse expressions of
good will from him, to bring the child a
handsome little merino coat.

Miss de Berenger, having come to stay
with her dear nephew Felix, was waiting
in his pleasant dining-room till he should
appear to breakfast.

He had been away from home when she
arrived ; sitting up with a sick parishioner,
whose bedside he had not left till late in
the night. She had not, therefore, seen
him, and was now occupied in looking about
her.

There were only six chairs in the room ;
these were of a very light description.
Four and sixpence each, I should think,"
she reflected ; " certainly, not more."
Then there were two large, solid bookcases,

which were so disposed as to make the
most of themselves. A square of carpet
was spread in the middle of the room, and
on this stood the table ; all uncovered parts
of the floor being stained brown. This
scanty furnishing made the large room look
larger. It looked, also, rather empty  for
it was rather empty.

She walked to one of the windows, and,
gazing out, saw what pleased her better.
On the right, but a good way off, was a
very high and thick yew-tree hedge, with
a square place in front of it paved with
small coggle-stones. In this grew two fine
walnut trees. Nearer to her, and only
divided from the paved yard by a line of
artificial rock-work scarcely a foot high,
was a large, beautiful garden, which, close to
the house, was planted with rose-bushes,
lilies, tree-peonies, and many lovely old-fashioned
plants, called by modern gardeners
"herbaceous rubbish." Those pernicious

weeds, the scarlet geranium and the yellow
cancellaria, had not found their way into it.
As this garden sloped away from the house,
large fruit trees of fine growth appeared
among the flower borders ; climbing clematis,
white or purple, was folded round the
trunks of some. Further off still, but not
divided by any hedge from the flowers,
excellent crops of various vegetables might
be seen.

A second window in the dining-room
showed her a mossy old lawn, in which
grew two immense fir trees, and between
them was visible the broad, low tower of a
village church.

Felix came down, his young brother
Amias followed ; a few words of welcome
were said, then the bell was rung for
prayers, and in came the two servants,
the little brother Dick, and Miss de Serene
maid.

If Felix had not been thinking of his

VOL. I. M

sick parishioner, he must have noticed the
restlessness of his anne. As it was, he proceeded,
after prayers, to help her to her
breakfast, with nothing to break the force
of his surprise, when, after little Dick had
shut the door behind him, she flung back
her curls and exclaimed, with an air of
triumph 

"Yes! Well, now, Felix; well, now,
Amias, what do you think ? I've discovered
the most astonishing family mystery that
you ever heard of. It's enough to make
your hair stand on end."

They were both well used to their aunt's
sensational speeches : to do her justice, it
was their habit of insisting on not being
astonished at what she had to say, which
mainly led to her constantly making her
statements more and more startling.

Amias continued to cut the bread quite
calmly, but Felix paused with his fork in
the bacon. His aunt's bright-red cheeks had

taken a clearer dye than usual ; she was
evidently excited herself, not merely trying
to excite them.

I told you," she exclaimed, tossing
back her curls to cool her face  " I told
you I believed I was on the track of
John's children. Poor John ! Yes, I've
found them, Felix. And their nurse, being
alarmed at something (what, I don't know),
positively stood me out, and declared that
they were no relations of ours. Poor little
waifs, they are the very image of him ; and
unless we show a parent's heart towards
them, Felix, I really do not know what is
to become of them."

Felix, unequal to the task of cutting the
bacon, left the fork sticking upright in it.

"John's children ! " he exclaimed. " Why,
John's not married ; at least, I never had
a hint that he was, much less that he had
a family."

"Nor had I, Felix; but I always suspected

that, when he quarrelled with his
father and went away, he did marry that
young person. And I have no doubt,
whatever the nurse may say, that he sent

her to D on purpose that I might fall

in with the children. Her conduct was
most peculiar; she no sooner found out
that they were relations of mine, than she
rushed off with them. But she had better
mind what she is about. I am going to
write to her, for I have her address, and I
shall tell her that if I go to law with her,
it will certainly he brought in ' abduction
of an heiress.' "

An heiress ! " exclaimed Felix. " She
cannot be John's child, then."

She is a very lovely little girl ; and if
I make a will in her favour, she will turnout
to be an heiress. And then, as I said,
that nurse had better look out, or she will
get herself transported for carrying her off
as she has done."

At this point the two brothers seemed
to lose their interest in the matter, and to
find their wonder subside, so that they
could begin to eat their breakfast.

She then gave an account of what had
passed, but at the same time taking so
much for granted, and so piecing together
what she had been told, what she thought,
and what the landlady had thought, that
Felix, in spite of himself, could not help
believing that these children must be John
de Berenger's daughters.

John de Berenger was the third son of
old Sir Samuel de Berenger, who, having
married late in life, was the father of a
family very little older than Felix de
Berenger, the son of his nephew.

The baronet's eldest son, for whom he had
never cared much, was a confirmed invalid,
spending most of his time at Algiers or in
Italy. He was a married man, but childless.
The second son, Tom, had just married, and

gone to join his regiment in India. The
third, John, who was not without certain
endearing qualities, was no credit to anyone
belonging to him. He was reckless
of opinion, extravagant, and so hopelessly
in debt, that he would certainly have
been outlawed, but that there was only
one healthy life between him and the
baronetcy; and his father, moreover, was
both rich and old. So that it seemed to
his creditors wise to wait on the chance of
his inheriting, at least, enough to pay his
debts, provided they did not make his
father aware how great these were.

I cannot bear to hear poor John called
the reprobate of the family," exclaimed
Miss de Berenger, " and threatened with
outlawry, dear fellow! "

It was partly on account of the word
outlaw" that Miss de Berenger took a
romantic interest in John. No halo hangs
about vulgar debt, but outlawry brings to

mind the Lincoln green, bows and arrows,
and a silver horn to blow upon under the
greenwood tree.

I wish you would not tease the old man
about these children," said Amias. " Hasn't
he enough to think of just now ? I'm the
reprobate of the family. I repudiate John ;
he's an impostor."

Yes, indeed, Amias," cried Miss de
Berenger instantly, remembering that she
ought to bear her testimony against the
youth's behaviour. " Yes, very sad. I've
heard of your conduct. Sir Sam wrote tome
in a rage. I hear you've turned teetotaler
as well, on purpose to insult him ; and
I'm informed that you said brewing was nota
proper trade for a gentleman."

"I said drunkenness was the cause of
almost all the misery in the country. I
said there was hardly a judge on the bench
who had not declared that it had to do with
nine-tenths of the crime that came before
him. I said ' '

"Now, look here," exclaimed Felix,
suddenly rousing up, " I can stand a good
deal, but I can't and won't stand a temperance
lecture on the top of John's
children ! " Then thinking, perhaps, that
he had been a little too vehement, he added
and half laughed, "It's all right, my boy."

The old man has a great deal to worry
him just now," said Amias, excusing his
brother's sudden heat to his aunt.

"And after he had been so kind  I
mean, Sir Sam had been so kind  and
proposed to take you into the concern,
and in time give you an interest in it !
Yes, it is very sad."

"Well, you would not have had me be
such a sneak, I suppose, as not to tell Uncle
Sam what I'd done ? Everybody else
knew. I'd been bursting with rage sometime
to think how we were actually the
ruin of people. But that was not why I
did it, I can tell you; I did it for fun.

When that temperance fellow came into
the village, and stood on a kitchen chair
ranting, a lot of people soon got round him,
and some of them cheered and some jeered
me as I came calmly by and stopped to
listen."

Ah ! stopped to listen, Amias. That
shows what comes of tampering with evil.
Well?"

Well, presently two drunken men came
reeling up, and insisted on shaking hands
with me. And the people hauled out
another chair from a cottage, and declared
that I must mount it and answer him.
I had not known at first what it was that
he was ranting about, with ' dear brethren
and ' dear sisters,' and ' dear fellow sinners.'
By the time I did know they would not
let me off; they stamped and cheered, and
said it was election time, and I must and
should speak up for the old concern."

"Well, Amias, well."

"Why, the tide turned against the
temperance man; they hooted him down.
And (I was excited at first, you know, it
seemed such fun) so I got on the chair
and imitated the man, his cockney talk
and cant. I did him capitally ; I ranted till
they all shrieked with laughter. And then
I stopped, for I knew I was doing the devil's
work. I stopped, I tell you, and I told them
the temperance man was quite right, and
asked them if they didn't know it, and all
that; and then, Felix coming up, I felt
that I was stumped, and I jumped down
and ran off. I could hear every step I took
on the grass, the people were so still; I
suppose it was with astonishment."

Very sad," said Miss de Berenger again,

Felix smiled.

So," continued the boy, "I thought
the next day I had better go and tell it
all to Uncle Sam. The old man thought
so too ; so I went and did for myself, for,

of course, he sent me packing. And here
I am."

"Well," said Miss de Berenger, with
some bitterness, and what was meant for
irony, " then, I hope the old man made
you welcome."

Yes," said Felix, calmly, " I did."

You needn't shake your head, aunt,"
proceeded the boy. " I'm glad I did it."

Miss de Berenger had sense enough to
see that what she might say on this
subject could have no effect. She returned
to her former theme ; she did not see
how poor John's children were to be
educated.

The proper person to tell this to is
old Sam himself," observed Felix.

Oh, I have written to him, my dear Felix.
I have laid the whole matter before him,
and "

"And what?"

"And he repudiates them utterly! But

if he could see them, beautiful little
creatures, and such a respectable nurse,
I'm sure it would soften his heart."

How can John afford a nurse ? His
father allows him very little to live on."

Very little. I thought it so touching
to see them handsomely dressed when John
must be almost in want. It shows his
heart is in the right place. And then, no
doubt, he had them thrown in our way,
hoping we should take them up."

If that is the case, why, in the name
of common sense, did their nurse carry
them off?"

"Why, my dear, she might not know
his motive, or she was afraid, perhaps,
that my penetration, or some unexpected
question of mine, might lead her to betray
what she is probably aware must not be
told  that is, where John's abode is."

It sounds queer," said Felix.

Miss de Berenger took no notice of this

remark, but dashed into what seemed a
perfectly different subject.

"And what about poor little Dick? He
has had no lessons at all since you came
here. Yes, he ought to have a governess,
for he is far too delicate to go to school."

Aunt, you know very well that I cannot
afford a governess just yet."

But, Felix, I have matured a scheme.
Yes, I have thought it out. I wish I was
more thankful for this talent committed tome
of planning for others. You know dear
Cecilia's sister, Ann Thimblebyby, of course ?"

Of course," said Felix, without any
enthusiasm.

Dear Cecilia would like so much to
have her near at hand. But then, you know,
Ann has to educate her little sister, and she
finds it extremely difficult to meet with anyone
who will take a governess and a 
sister with her."

I should think so ! "

Ann Thimblebyby asks forty pounds a year
salary."

Oh."

Felix, do listen."

Ann Thimblebyby asks forty pounds a year
salary, you said."

Yes, Felix ; but she and the child are
vegetarians. Just think of your garden. It
would cost you a mere nothing to feed
them, with the eggs, too, that you have
from the poultry yard, and the milk from your
cow. You would still (when your family
was supplied) have fruit and vegetables to
exchange for groceries, as I explained to
you was commonly done. If you would
give her little sister board and lodging,
and let Ann teach her with Dick, Ann
would take ten pounds a year and be thankful.
I know she would, for she has twenty
pounds a year of her own."

I could not afford even that. I should
still be out of pocket."

11 Yes, you would  perhaps almost as much
as twenty pounds a year. Yes. But, then,
there are these little De Berengers. I have
ascertained that their nurse pays a certain
Miss Price twenty pounds for teaching
them. Now, Felix, if that woman would
come and live in the village, you could
agree with Anne to teach the four children
together, and you, receiving the twenty
pounds, would get Dick educated for nothing.
You would keep a kind of co-operative store
for the benefit of all parties, the goods being
children."

Felix was struck with surprise.

You actually propose to me to encumber
myself with a governess, a girl, and two
children, in order to get little Dick taught
his lessons? "

Well, Felix, can you think of a better
plan ? It would be bringing these darlings
close to their own family, and getting Dick
looked after and taught for nothing. I do

not mean to say that Mary Thimblebyby is
a nice child  far be it from me to deceive
you. She is a stupid, uncomfortable girl,
and how their mother, who was the sweetest
woman  so managing, too  contrived to
have such an uncomfortable child, I cannot
think. It is something quite new in that
family to produce a variety of the sort.
But these subjects," continued Miss de
Berenger, pushing back her loose curls, and
putting on an air of wisdom and cogitation
" these subjects are as intricate as all
others on the origin of species."

A gleam of joy shot across the dark face
of Felix, but he remained silent, and his
aunt continued.

"And as for Cecilia's marrying Carlos
Tanner, of course that was very imprudent ;
but I cannot help taking an interest in him,
considering, my dears, that I ought to have
been his mother, and that, but for the fickleness
of mankind, I should have been."

This was an old story.

"Never mind, Aunt Sarah," said Amias.
His father's wife lost all her fortune after
he married her, and everybody said that
served him right."

And she had been a widow twice before
he took her," observed Felix.

Yes," said Aunt Sarah, much consoled ;
and she was married in a brown gown 
actually, my dears, in a brown gown. If he
had married me, I should have had a white
one."

Well, then, I hope the wedding cake,
instead of white, was done with brown
sugar," continued Felix.

For consistency's sake it should have
been," answered Sarah; "but, my dears,
we cannot expect consistency in this world !
Yes!"

VOL. T.

Chapter VIII.

This plan of Miss de Berenger's appeared to
her nephew so preposterous, that he gave
it no better reception than a somewhat
ironical smile ; then he finished his breakfast,
and what more his anne had to say he
heard without receiving the sense. Yet, in
less than one month, he was glad to carry-out
the whole scheme, almost to the letter.
In about a week he found that he was
living precisely up to his income, and had
nothing to spare for such contingencies as
illness, nor anything to spend on Dick's
education. At the same time, Miss de
Berenger having said vaguely that no
doubt little Dick would soon have a governess,

a widow lady, a friend of hers, who
lived half a mile off, came and proposed
advantageous terms, if her son might come
as a day pupil, and take his lessons with
Dick. Her hoy, she said, was lonely; he
was delicate ; he was her only child. Might
lie ride over on his pony ? She was sure
they should agree about terms.

On this hint Miss de Berenger spoke
again, and got leave from Felix to write
to Mrs. Snaith; which she did, proposing
to the poor woman to come and live in a
little cottage then vacant, and pay twenty
pounds a year for the education of the two
children.

Mrs. Snaith did not often laugh, but
she laughed heartily when she got that
letter ; felt as if she had been politely invited
to step into the lion's den, and put
it aside, taking nearly a fortnight for considering
the precise terms in which she
could decline it.

But lo, at the end of that term scarlet
fever broke out in the farmhouse where
Miss Price the governess lived, and she felt
at once a longing desire to get away from
the place. She only took her little cottage
by the week ; she could hire a cart to carry
away her furniture to the station. She had
spent a good deal of money on her late trip
to the seaside, and could not possibly afford
another. How cheap this plan was  how
easy ! And, after all, no one but herself
had any power over the children ; no one
could possibly prevent her taking them
away again from these De Berengers
whenever she chose.

She drew out the letter again. There was
no time to be lost; one more day brought
her news of another case of fever, and
without loss of an hour she wrote a respectful
letter to Miss de Berenger, setting
forth that she would appear with the
children the very next evening, and what

little furniture she had should come with
them.

Miss de Bereuger had seldom been
happier. She rushed to accept the widow's
proposition, then she flew to arrange
matters with Miss Thimblebyby, which she
did in such a satisfactory fashion, that this
young lady was to receive a small salary
for her services, together with vegetarian
hoard, lodging, and leave to educate the
little sister; Felix, on his part, taking
the remainder of what Mrs. Snaith and the
widow lady were to pay, so as to reimburse
himself for his outlay, and pay also for the
small quantity of cheap furniture that had
to be bought, his main advantage being
that he was to get his little brother
taught and looked after for nothing.

It was an anxious and trying day for
Mrs. Snaith that took her, her children,
and her goods, to the new home. Several
times during the course of it imagination

transported her among the people she was
going to. How would they receive her ?
What questions would they ask ? She
thought of them as excited also, as busy
about her affairs, for Miss de Berenger
had assured her that the little cottage
should be swept down for her, and that
she should find a comfortable supper ready
there for herself and her little charge.

There was a certain amount of bustle,
and some excitement also, that day at the
parsonage ; not in the minds of Felix or his
brother, for they were gone out for the day ;
and not concerning Mrs. Snaith. If she
could have known what it was that effaced
her from their thoughts, it would have
helped her, as such things always do, to
realize how small the place was that she
filled in creation.

It is hard sometimes, when one had
thought that one's self and one's affairs
were filling the minds of others, to find

that one has been utterly forgotten ; but
it is positively humbling to discover, as is
sometimes our lot, what a small, what an
utterly worthless thing it was that blotted
us out.

However, in this case, it cannot be said
to have been a small thing  quite the
contrary. It was a very large thing ; there
was the oddness of the matter. And how
so large a thing could possibly be lost,
missing, or mislaid, in such a scantily
furnished house, was the whole mystery.
The thing, in short, for sake of which Mrs.
Snaith passed out of mind, was a clothes-basket.


Jolliffe, the servant, had looked all over for
it, and was out of breath. A girl who had
been blamed, and had wept in consequence,
was now helping the others to express the
common astonishment, and counting off
on her fingers, as Jolliffe enumerated them,
all the places, likely and unlikely, that had
been looked into in vain.

A large bundle of clothes, ready tied up to
be put into this basket, was lying in the
mean time on the clean kitchen floor, and
the washerwoman sat in judgment upon it,
deciding that it was too heavy to be carried
as it was, even with the help of her little
boy, who, with his legs hanging down, sat
regarding it with a sheepish and shamefaced
air, as one so used to be accused, when any
sort of mischief had been perpetrated, that
he was expecting every moment to hear the
loss of the basket confidently laid at his door.

Just then a youth, who had been hired
to weed, came clattering across the paved
yard in his hobnailed boots.

"I forgot the loft," said JollifTe ; and
she put her head out at the casement
window. " Andrew, you go and look in
the loft over the stable if the big clothes-basket
is there."

"I know it can't be there, mem," answered
the boy.

"I didn't ask you what you knew," said
Mrs. Jolliffe, with the dignity of full conviction.
"If it's not in a likely place, it
stands to reason that it must be in an unlikely.
You go and do as I bid you."

Yes, mem," said the boy; and he burst
into a chuckling laugh, and instantly was
grave again.

That boy Andrew is the awkwardness in
the parish," continued Mrs. Jolliffe; "but
when I say the basket couldn't have gone
without hands, I don't mean but what his
hands are clean, in a manner of speaking."

It ain't there," said Andrew, returning,
and chuckling again. "Whereupon he was
reproved by all parties for things in general,
including his having been frequently seen to
laugh even at his work, as if nothing was
of any account; which, they observed, had
very probably emboldened some tramp to
carry off the missing article. He was then
made to fetch the lightest wheelbarrow

from the potato garden, and in that the
clothes for the wash were solemnly wheeled
away.

The soft shadows of evening were coming
on, and everything about the parsonage was
very still, when Miss de Berenger came
bustling up to the kitchen door, calling for
Dick.

"I cannot find him anywhere, Jolliffe.
I want him to come this minute, and see
his little cousins. They have just arrived
at the cottage with their nurse, and I told
them they should see him."

Jolliffe had been leaning out at the dairy
window, talking to a market gardener, who
also kept a shop in the neighbouring town r
in which he sold both fruit and grocery,
and with whom Felix, under Miss de Be-render's
advice, had made an agreement to
exchange some of his superfluous fruit for
tea and other groceries. She now started
forth, suddenly remembering that she had

not seen Dick for a long time, the gardener
following.

Wherever can the dear child be ! " she
exclaimed. " I should have looked after
him before, if I hadn't had those lattices
on my mind. They've all come to their
hearts at once ; the dairy floor is all over
green things that master cut for fear their
heads should spread."

That comes of the vegetable ladies,"
observed the gardener. " I'm sure I don't
grudge anything its growth,  not but what
I shall lose by all those apricots being ripe
together."

Wherever can the dear child be ! " repeated
Jolliffe. " Master Dick ! " she
shouted, " where are you ? Come, it's
supper time, and your aunt wants you,
lovey."

A childish whoop answered, and was
echoed from the old church tower, which
was close to the garden.

I can't tell where he is," she observed;
"the sound seemed to come from all round."
Then she turned to the east, and exclaimed,
Why, goodness !  why, good gracious me,
if ever I saw anything so strange in my
life, Mr. Bolton ! There's ever so many
stars shining in the chestnut tree."

Mr. Bolton looked. There stood the great
horse-chestnut tree, in all the splendour of
its rich, deep foliage, and there certainly
was a light shining between the leaves.
Not the moon, for she hung a yellow crescent,
that yielded no light at all ; not
Venus > for she, of all stars, was the only
one out ; but a warm orange, steady light
that illuminated the whole centre of the
tree, and shone through the leaves as well
as between them.

The soft veil of the gloaming came on,
and made this light every moment brighter ;
while such a silence seemed to gather and
rise from under the trees, that Jolliffe and

her companion, as they slowly and cautiously
approached, did not care to speak. Then
the woman hung back, the light looked so
strange ; and the man went under, looked
up, and came back with a smile.

I'll give you two guesses regarding
what's up in that tree ! " he exclaimed.

Can't I see that it's a light ?" cried Mrs.
JollifTe, with much impatience. " I don't
see, though you have bought the fruit off'
the very walls, that I've any call to pick
out answers for your riddles in master's own
garden, at this time o' night."

Of course it's a light," replied Mr. Bolton,
" but what's the light in ? Well, if you
don't like to come any nigher, in regard of
it's being so close to the old churchyard, I'll
tell you. It's in the old clothes-basket."

Jolliffe's surprise made her good-tempered.
Again she came under the tree, and looked
up. " This must be one of the dear child's
antics," she observed ; " but however in the

world did he get it up there ? Must be
fifteen feet high. What a horrid dangerous
trick ! "

1 don't see that," answered Mr. Bolton.
He can climb like a cat. What he's done
is this : he's drawn it up, do you see, by
that long dangle of clothes-line to the fork
where those three branches spread out, and
there, as he stood above, he's managed toland
it pretty steady, and he's tied it with
the rope in and out among the boughs,
and then he's fetched the stable lantern."

And that boy Andrew helped him, I'll
be bound ! " exclaimed Mrs. JollifTe. " I
shouldn't wonder if he's in it now. Master
Dicky dear, you'll speak to your own Jolly,
won't you ? "

A good deal of creaking was now heard
in the wicker-work of the basket, but there
was no answer.

Oh, well, Mr. Bolton," remarked Mrs.
Jolliffe, in a high-raised voice, " it's a clear

case that he ain't here ; I'd better go in
and tell his brother that he's lost."

A good deal more creaking, and something
like a chuckle, was now heard in the
basket, and presently over the edge peered
the face of a great owl, a favourite companion
of the child's.

It was dusk now under the tree, and the
creature's eyes glared in the light of the
lantern. Mrs. JollifTe, being startled, called
him a beast ; but he looked far more like
the graven image of a cherub on a tomb,
for nothing of him could be seen but his
widespread wings and his face, while he
looked down and appeared to think the
visit of these two persons intrusive and
unseasonable.

Well, old goggle-eyes," quoth Mr. Bolton,
" so you're there too, are you ? If you
know where your master is, which appears
likely  for you're as cunning as many Christians,
and full as ugly  you'd better tell

trim that, as sure as fate, we're going to
fetch his brother out if he doesn't comedown."


Ay, that we are," added Mrs. Jolliffe.
Why, it'll be dark presently, and how is
he to get down in the dark ? "

The round, rosy face of little Dick was
now reared up beside the face of the owl.
He looked like a cherub too, but with a
difference.

Mr. Bolton shook his head, and said
rather gruffly, " Now, what are we to think
of this here behaviour ? What with getting
yourself lifted off your legs, a-ringing the
church bells, and what with setting yourself
fast in the chimney, climbing after jackdaws'
nests, and what with sailing in the
wash-tub, and what with getting yourself
mixed up with the weights of the parish
clock, you're a handful to your family, I do
declare, and a caution to parties about to
marry."

Instead of looking at all penitent, the
little urchin only said, " But you won't tell,
Jolly dear  you won't really tell ? "

"Yes," answered Mrs. Jolliffe, stolidly,
I shall tell ; so now you know. And how
anybody that's only to eat lattices and
green meat generally is ever to conquer
you ! Of course I shall tell."

Well, then, just throw up the cord,"
said the little fellow, " and I'll be down ina
minute."

I shouldn't wonder if that hoy Andrew
has been helping you," observed Mrs.
Jolliffe. "If he has, it may be as much
as his place is worth."

It was never worth more than ninepence
a day ; but the discussion was just then cut
short by the sound of voices. Felix and his
brother came down the grass walk.

What's all this?" said Felix ; but before
Mrs. Jolliffe and Mr. Bolton had explained,
he had taken in the whole matter, and what

VOL. I. O

was more, he evidently thought nothing
of it.

Amias brought a fruit-ladder, Felix called
the little fellow down from his wicker nest,
and when he was upon it and conveniently
near, gave him a not unfriendly slap on
his chubby person. " You had better lookout,
you little monkey," he remarked, in a
casual and general sort of way. Little Dick
said he would, and Felix, mounting the
ladder, looked into the basket : saw the owl
and the lantern, and a quantity of mown
grass, also two books of fairy tales which
Dick had been reading. He brought these
last down and put out the light. " The
basket is a good-for-nothing old thing,"
he observed to Jolliffe as he descended ;
the child may as well be allowed to
keep it."

Mrs. Jolliffe almost held up her hands.
Is that the way to bring up a child ?" washer
mental answer. " Well, after this week

we shall wash at home, so it does not so
much signify."

Felix was not half so fond of his little
brother as a parent would have been, but
he was, on the whole, nearly as indulgent.
Dick, while he slowly retreated, heard permission
given for him to keep the clothes-basket,
but a ready instinct assured him
that he would do well to retire from observation.
He had other pieces of mischief on
his mind beside the building of that child-nest
in the tree, so he evaded his aunt
when he heard her calling him, and creeping
up to his little room, tumbled into bed
and went to sleep as fast as possible.

He slept sweetly. So did not Mrs. Snaith,
though she was much fatigued ; a foreboding
thought of impending questions haunted
her. And as between ten and eleven o'clock
the next morning she came forth from her
tiny cottage to bring her little girls to the
parsonage, her senses seemed to be sharpened

both by the new scene and the leisure given
her for remarking it.

Miss de Berenger had asked her to bring
the children. As well then, she thought, as
at some future time. The little creatures,
exquisitely neat and clean, with sunny locks
flowing under their limp white hats, walked
on before her, while she, very plainly clad,
came after, all in sober brown. She entered
the parsonage gate, and there stood the
vicar in his white gown ; he had just been
marrying a rustic couple at the church, and
was leisurely divesting himself of this long
white garment, which was so clean, that
between the two great dark fir trees on the
lawn, it seemed almost to shine.

Felix came up when he saw the children,
met them just as they reached the
front door, and gave a hand to each ; then
addressed the nurse pleasantly. But, hardly
noticing her answer, he seated himself on the
outside of the dining-room window and

cast attentive glances at his two little
guests, who, unabashed and calm, looked
at him with wide-open eyes of the sweetest
blue-grey, and found it interesting to notice
how the clerk was folding up that long
white gown, and how a tame jackdaw had
come hopping up to Felix, and was perching
itself on his knee. Sometimes the children
answered when Felix spoke, sometimes the
nurse, but an inward trembling shook her.
She had thought the shy anxieties of those
few moments would soon be over ; but no 
far otherwise. She looked earnestly at the
clergyman, at this Mr. Felix de Berenger,
and she saw in his face no recognition, buta
growing conviction made her more aware
that she did not see him for the first time.
A dark, thin man of middle height, a pleasant
face  though rather an anxious one  thin
features. And the hair ? Well, what of the
hair ? Felix took off his hat presently, for
the morning was warm ; then rising, he

turned the other side of his head towards
her, as he called np at an open window,
"Dick, Dick! Come down, you little
monkey. Come; I want you." Yes,
there it was, visible enough  one lock,
narrow and perfectly white, among the
otherwise umber waves of thick dark
hair.

The nurse felt for the moment as if her
heart stood still, and all was up with her.
The curate ! It was the curate who had
been kind to her in her worst adversity,
who had given her a shilling in the hop-garden.


He showed no signs of recognition.
How, indeed, should he know her again,
or she fail to know him again ? He was
not altered in the least, and had, as she
instantly remembered, seen many and many
a poor creature since such as she had
been. But she  her lean, gaunt figure
was changed by several years of peace, comfort,

and good living. She was inclined,
for her age, to be rather stone now. She
was very neatly and becomingly dressed, for
in place of that flimsy faded clothing, she
wore plain dark colours, and her shining
hair was disposed in two close bands down
her face.

She looked well into his eyes, impelled
by her very fear to seek the worst at once.
He did not know her. And now a lovely
little boy in a pinafore was coming up ;
a dimpled creature as brown as a berry 
hair, and eyes, and face  excepting where
the clear crimson of the cheek showed
through a little.

He was inclined to be very shamefaced.
Amabel was not. She came up to him
and gave him the usual greeting of infancy,
a kiss. Then Delia slipped off Mr. de
Berenger's knee, and after inspecting Dick
for an instant, she also kissed him ; and
then the children smiled at one another

all over their little faces, and, taking hands,
walked off among the trees chattering.

Pretty little Dick! He was supremely
happy that morning. The joy of their
presence was as if two little child-angels
had come to play with him. He made
them welcome to all his hest things ; he
also took them up the fruit-ladder to his
nest. For more than four years after this,
those beautiful nestlings spent their happiest
hours in it.

But on this first climb into it they were
aided by Andrew, who had originally helped
Dick to tie the basket safely, and was
now very impressive with all the children.
They were on no account to go up, nor
down neither, without his help ; they were
to promise solemnly that they never would 
to promise as sure as death." So they did,
knowing and caring about death nothing
at all. But they knew they were happy 
Dick especially  and he fell easily and at

once under the influence of their sex, and
never so long as he lived escaped from it
any more.

The leaves were very thick underneath
them, so that they could not be seen from
below. But they could see the great
shining face of the church clock, the rooks
leading off their second brood, the white
road winding on through the heathery
common, and, far beyond, a little hill in old
Sir Sam's park, on the slope of which does
and fawns were lying half hidden by the
bracken.

In the mean time Mrs. Snaith, little
aware what they were about, had been
introduced by Jolliffe to the clean kitchen,
and there, after a good deal of polite haggling,
as, "Well, ma'am, I'm sure it's a
shame," and "Well, ma'am, I couldn't bear
myself sitting with my hands before me,"
had been accommodated with an apron, and
allowed to make herself useful by stringing

and slicing beans. The party had been
invited to an early dinner at the parsonage,
and there were rabbits and parsley since
to prepare, and there were late red currants
to strip from the stalks for a fruit pudding.
Aided by the circumstance that they had
something to do, the ladies soon became
friendly, and talked of such subjects as really
interested them.

Well, it is a very small cottage, ma'am ;
there you're right."

"And in lodgings you're saved avast of
trouble, so that if it wasn't for the dripping
"

"Ah, indeed; you may well mention
that, ma'am. Why, not one in ten of those
landladies is to be depended on."

Mrs. Snaith assented.

And to sit in your parlour," she continued,
" and know as well as can be that
they're making their own crusts with your
dripping, and that you mayn't go down to

see it, is enough to spoil the best of tempers
and the least particular."

They were rather a large party at dinner,
for the new governess and her young sister
had arrived; and Felix, as he sat at the
head of the table, had only just marshalled
them, said grace, and begun to wonder how
the one young servant of the establishment
would wait upon them all, when Mrs. Snaith
appeared, carrying in the first dish, which she
set before him and uncovered, as if she was
performing some ordinary and looked-for
duty.

Mrs. Snaith !" he exclaimed.

I should wish it, if you please, sir, whenever
my young ladies is here," she replied
calmly.

A very convenient wish, and she began to
carry it out with a quiet and homely dignity
that he much admired, every now and then
giving the gentlest motherly admonition to
the children, including little Dick. Felix

had a certain fear of a lady; womanhood
was sufficiently alarming to him without
fine clothes, accomplishments, and a polished
and self-possessed manner. He found himself
most attracted by a good woman who
was without these extraneous advantages ;
this homely dignity and unruffled humility
pleased him, and commanded his respect.
He let Mrs. Snaith alone, and under her
auspices the dinner went on pleasantly to
its conclusion.

Little Amabel and her sister won great
approval by their sweet looks and pretty
behaviour at that dinner. They had been
well taught, and could conduct themselves
perfectly well at table.

Felix regarded them with attention ; they
were graceful, they were fair, but he saw
no special likeness to old Sir Sam's
family.

The children had, in fact, been helped,
by their mother's intense sympathy, to the

inheritance of a certain pensive wistfulness
that was in their father's soul and countenance
; the reflection of it was in their faces
only in their faces  and even there it
appeared more as the expression of a sentiment
than of a passion, that abiding passion
of regret for his lameness that the bad,
beautiful youth was always brooding over.
When their lovely little faces were at rest,
and no smiles rippled over them, their mother
could often see that look, a witness to their
father's sorrow and their mother's pity; it
gave a strange, and to her a very touching,
interest to both the children. There was
an unusual contrast between the still deeps
in their lucid, grave blue eyes, and the rosy
lips, so dimpled and waggish, so ready to
soften and smile, and show a mouthful of
pearls.

Well, Felix; well, Amias," said Miss de
Berenger, when this dinner was over, and
she was left alone with her two nephews,

u I suppose you will both admit that I have
brought a treasure into the family. Yes !
How well that woman waits ! What a sight
the great heaps of potatoes must have been
for her, and the cabbages and the buttered
beans that Ann and Mary consumed ! I
call to mind now your dear father asking
me if I remembered a dinner we were at
once, at their mother's. l Remember it ! ' I
exclaimed. ' Ay, thou poor ghost of a meal,
while memory holds her place in an empty
stomach.' I was inspired to say it, just as
Shakespeare was at first, though in general
I am not at all poetical. And then the
tipsy cake she gave us in the evening ! It
was a tremendous falsehood to call it by such
a name. Tipsy, indeed ! How was a whole
cake to get tipsy on one glass of South
African wine ? You need not look so wise,
Amias ; a degrading thing, I suppose you'll
say, to make fun of even a dumb cake,
when it's drunk," proceeded Miss de Serene

after a pause. "As if there could be
real fun in the inebriation of anything whatever.
Yes ! Why, how very ridiculous you
two are ! I never saw such risible fellows
in my life. And you a clergyman, too,
Felix! What can you be laughing at now?"

While this conversation took place in
the garden, and while the children played
together, and the vegetarians, walking
between thick hedges of peas and beans,
and ridges of new potatoes, felt that they
had come into a land of fatness and plenty,
Mrs. Snaith, helping to wash the glass in
the neat kitchen, was made welcome to a
good deal of information that no amount
of questioning would have procured for
those in a different station of life to her
informers.

These were Mr. Bolton, who had just
stepped up to gather some early summer
jennings, but out of delicacy forbore to
take them under the eyes of Felix, and so

waited till he should come in ; and Mrs.
Jolliffe, who in dismissing the washerwoman,
after counting out the clean clothes she
had brought home, took occasion, with
patronizing suavity, to recommend her to
the new-comer as a very honest woman,
and a good hand at getting up children's
clothes.

Mrs. Snaith said she would employ her,
and the grateful and respectful thanks that
she and Jolliffe both received opened the
heart of the latter still further, so that as
the little woman retreated across the yard
her praises followed her.

An honest little woman, and industrious
too, Mrs. Snaith ; and has lately got the
laundry work of the clerks at the brewery.
Still, as she said to me, ' Mrs. Jolliffe,' said
she, l there's no sweet without its bitter,
and most of those gentlemen air such extra
large sizes, that I feel it hard I should lev
to do justice to their shirts, at twopence

halfpenny apiece, "when I should lev hed
the same money if they'd been smaller.' "

Her present husband is not to complain
of for his size," observed Mr. Bolton.

No, but that was a conveniency," quoth
Mrs. Jolliffe ; " and, for aught I know, the
conveniency helped to decide her, as such
things very frequently do, and no harm
neither."

Mrs. Jolliffe spoke with such a meaning
smile, that Mrs. Snaith testified some
curiosity, whereupon she continued.

"For, as I said', a prudent little woman
she was. Her first husband's Sunday coat
w r as laid by as good as new; so she took
and cut it smaller for her second to be
married in, and very respectable he looked
in it, and it saved money. And why not,
Mr. Bolton ? " she inquired, with a certain
sharpness of reproof in her voice.

"Why not, indeed!" answered Mr.
Bolton, hastening to agree, though at first

VOL. I. P

his face had assumed a slightly sarcastic
expression. Then, on reflection, he veered
round to his first thought. " But it don't
seem a feeling thing to do, neither."

Feeling!" quoth Mrs. Jolliffe, in the
tone of one who makes a telling retort.
u You and I can't talk together about
feelings, and hope to agree, at all. Some
folks have most feeling for that that can
hold up its head and stop at home, which
is my case. I don't pretend to understand
them whose feeling is for that that must
run away."

Here loth Mrs. Jolliffe and Mr. Bolton
laughed, and Mrs. Snaith was appealed to
in words that confused and startled her, for
they seemed to hint at her wretched husband's
condition, as if the speaker knew
all about it.

"When the law has got hold of a man,
that man is not, therefore, to be cried down
by me, and never shall be. No, nor by

you neither, ma'am, as your actions make
evident."

Mrs. Snaitli flushed and trembled, but
said nothing, and with what relief, and
what gratitude for it, she heard the rest
of the conversation, neither of those who
marked her rising colour could have the
least idea.

"Now, my feelings go across the water.
"What's old Sam to me?"

That you should talk of him so disrespectful,
almost at his own gates ! "

Why not ? " replied Mr. Bolton. " Do
I owe him for a single drop of his beer,
-either given me or sold to me ? "

"Eight well you know that he'd have
lost his seat if he'd given any away at the
last election."

Eight well I do know it. For all that,
old Sam, as I was saying, never gives a
pleasant word to his neighbours. And
never was a freer, friendlier man than

Mr. John, and free and friendly is lie
treated now by me and by others. Does
he find any difficulty in getting intelligence
of all he wants to know ? I should say
not. Why, Mrs. Snaith, Mr. John has
more than one correspondent here, that
knows as much about him as maybe I do,
and maybe you do."

Mr. John ? " exclaimed Mrs. Snaith,
now breathing freely. " Oh, Mr. John de
Berenger it were that you spoke of ? "

Why, yes," said Mr. Bolton, looking at
her with some admiration for what he
considered an excellently feigned surprise.
Mr. John de Berenger, of course. Who
else?"

CHAPTEK IX.

Old Sir Sam, as people called him, otherwise
Sir Samuel Simcox che Berenger, was
in some respects a particularly agreeable
man. He had some undesirable qualities,
but from the first he had been so strangely
dealt with by circumstances, by nature, and
by providence, so drawn on through the
natural openings made by other men's
mistakes, that if he had been any better,
he would have been a hero ; and that he
certainly was not.

Most people thought he was a great deal
richer than he ought to have been, and yet
he had never taken a shilling but what the
laws of his country accorded to him.

His own father, having two sons, had

taken him, the elder, into partnership, and
given him a share in his great brewery
business. The younger had gone into the
army, obtaining the father's consent, though
it was very reluctantly given.

This second son had married very young,
and left three children, one of whom was
the father of Felix, and another his aunt,
Sarah de Berenger. To her the old grandfather
had given a handsome fortune during
his lifetime  had, in short, settled upon hera
small estate which had come into the
family by the female side, so that she was
much better off than her two brothers ; for
when, after his younger son's death, the old
man also died, it was found that, owing
to some fatal informality in the will, the
representatives of the younger branch could
not possess themselves of that interest in
his business and his property which he
had always expressed himself as intending
to leave them.

Sir Samuel, without a lawsuit, was evidently
master of all. He took immense
pains to get the best legal opinions, and
confidently expected that his two nephews
would try the case. Being a pugnacious
man, he looked forward to a fair fight, not
without a certain amount of pleasure and
excitement.

Perhaps the two nephews took counsel's
opinion also ; but however that might be,
they never gave him a chance of fighting.
Instead of going to law, they took themselves
off, left him to swallow up all, and
maintained themselves independently of him
and his business.

There is little doubt that he would have
been, to a great extent, the conqueror, if
there had been a suit. In such a case, he
would have held his head high, and also
have done something for his late brother's
family ; but when he found that he was left
master of the situation without a suit, and

also without a reconciliation, he felt it. To
win in open fight is never so necessary to
the comfort and pride of the winner, if he
is right, as if he is wrong.

While Sir Samuel was considering that,
though these nephews could make good no
claim at law, yet they ought to have something,
one of them chanced to die without
a will, and he chose to consider himself the
young man's heir-at-law. That is to say,
he reflected that the dead nephew, having
been the elder of the two, ought to have
had, if he had lived, a double share ; he
would certainly have given him a double
share. So he divided off that portion of his
possessions as having been destined for his
nephew, and he always called it, "What
I came in for, in consequence of poor Tom's
premature death." Thus that claim settled
itself.

The other nephew, the father of Felix,
never quarrelled with him, but rather

seemed to set him at nought. Yet he felt
that he must do his duty by him. To
that end, he informed him that he should
take his second son, then an infant, into
the business ; which in due time he did,
with what results has already been explained.


He never had any thanks from the father
of the baby, who went to India before the
future brewer could run alone ; but he occasionally
called the child " Small-beer," by
which he made it evident that Sir Samuel
had leave to carry out his noble intention
if he pleased. Sir Samuel felt that too ;
for though he retained all the material advantage
that had come of the unlucky will,
he none the less fretted under a sense of
the contempt that he knew his nephew
held him in, and was always particularly
cautious what he said, lest he should provoke
an answer.

So he lived in the exercise of a certain

self-control, feeling it, in general, politic tone
bland and obliging to bis nephew ; and
this, to a man of bis choleric nature, was
galling. At the same time, he took all
opportunities of being affectionate and useful
to his niece Sarah, who, being herself very
well off, felt her brother's poverty the less
keenly, and was often inclined to identify
herself with the rich side of the family, as
finding riches a great thing to have in
common. Sarah lost both her brothers in
their comparative youth. As for Felix, her
nephew, his was a grievance once removed
an old story. His great-uncle, for a time,
had been very kind to Amias  had, in fact,
shown a decided affection for him ; it was
as well now to let the old great-grand-father's
will be forgotten.

Felix was helped in his wish to let it pass
into the background, by his liking for old
Sir Samuel's sons, the youngest of whom
was only one year his own senior ; for Sir

Samuel had married somewhat late in life,
so that his sons and his great-nephews were
contemporaries.

And now two little girls had appeared
upon the scene, to Sir Samuel's great surprise
and very natural annoyance. His
great-nephew had been the cause of their
coming; and Miss de Berenger had told
him pointedly that they were his grandchildren.


He was secretly enraged with Felix 
would like to have had an encounter with
him about it ; the more so as he felt inclined
to believe it was so.

No one knew so well as himself how
utterly in the wrong his favourite son had
always been in his quarrels with him. In
fact, his affection for the scapegrace had
enabled him to endure a vast deal that any
father would have found hard, and, in hope
of winning and then retaining him, to be
almost subservient and long-indulgent.

But the favourite had got into debt many
times after being brought home and freed.
Finally, the father had been obliged to send
him from home on an allowance, and John
had actually gambled away great part of
his interest even in that.

His father knew he had somehow deeply
entangled himself, but knew not all. Sometimes
he got a hint from Felix, to whom, at
rare intervals, John still wrote, for as boys
the two had been friends. When Sir Samuel
found that Felix was arranging for the
education of these little De Berengers, he
felt how hard it was that his son should
confide in a cousin rather than in himself,
and he waited a week, in confident expectation
that Felix would lay a case before him,
declare that these were his grandchildren,
and make some demand on him for money ;
he intended to dispute every inch of the
ground, not give a shilling, unless the fact
was fully proved, and even then beat Felix

down to the lowest sum lie could possibly
be induced to accept. But the week came
to an end, and Felix said not a word.

Everybody declared that these two little
girls were the image of John. He felt a
devouring anxiety to see them, for he was
an affectionate old fellow. He had vowed
to himself that they were none of his, and
that, as John had acknowledged no marriage,
it could be no duty of his to take upon him
the great expense of their maintenance ; but
here they were at his gates, and he longed
to see them.

He asked Felix whether they had asked
after him.

"How should they, uncle," exclaimed
Felix, "when they never heard of your
existence? "

"Why  why," stuttered Sir Samuel,
don't they know anything at all about 
the family?"

Evidently not. One of them can talk

plainly, and she seems, so far as I can judge,
to know nothing about any of us."

I would have done well by them, John,"
muttered the old man, as he drove home
with an aching heart; "but you never had
any bowels towards your old father. Why,
look here ; he flings his children at me,
without so much as asking me for my blessing
on them ! "

The next day, about one o'clock, little
Amabel and little Delia were seated on two
high chairs at the table, in their tiny
cottage, and waiting for their dinner, when
an old gentleman looked in at the open
door, smiled, nodded to them, and then
came inside, taking off his hat and putting
it on the window-sill among the flower-pots.
A nice old gentleman, with white hair and
white eyebrows. The little girls returned
his nod and smiles ; then the elder lifted up
her small, high voice, and called through the
open door that led to the little back kitchen,

"Mrs. Naif, Mrs. Naif!" A cheery voice
answered, and then the younger child tried
her skill as a summons. " Mrs. Naif, dear !
Make haste, Mrs. Naif! Company's come to
dinner."

Mrs. Snaith presently appeared with, a
good-sized rice pudding, and set it on the
table, which was graced with a clean
cloth.

Sir Samuel greeted her when she curtsied.
11 Good morning, ma'am. You are the nurse
here, I presume ? "

Yes, sir, I am."

"Will you he seated, and allow me just
to look on awhile."

Mrs. Snaith sat down, and helped the
little ones to their pudding. The elder was
inclined to he slightly shy ; the younger, pulling
Mrs. Snaith by the sleeve, pointed at
Sir Samuel with her spoon, and whispered
some loving confidences in her ear.

What does she say?" asked Sir Samuel.

The nurse smiled. " She says, sir, ' Give-the
company some pudding.' "

"Does she, pretty lamb ? " exclaimed the
old baronet, with a sudden access of fervour ;
then recollecting himself, and noticing that
the nurse was startled and coloured slightly,
he said, by way of continuing his sentence,
"I didn't exactly catch your name, I
think?"

Mrs. Snaith, sir."

Yes, her name's Mrs. Faith everyday,"
said the little Amabel, " but when
she's very good we call her Massey."

Her name's Mamsey when she gives us
strawberries and milk," the other child explained.
" But she hasn't got a black face,
company," she continued, addressing him
earnestly, as if it behoved him to testify to
the truth of her words.

A black face!" exclaimed the puzzled
guest.

Mrs. Snaith explained. " There were some

American children with a black nurse, sir,
at the seaside where we've been. They
c ailed her Mamsey, and so these little dears
imitated them.' ,

By this time it was evident that the
nurse was ill at ease ; she perceived the deep
interest with which her unbidden guest
watched the children's words and ways. Her
pride as a mother was not deceived with
any thought that this was a tribute to their
beauty or infantile sweetness ; she knew this
must be the rich man, the great man of the
place, who was held in that peculiar respect
which merit and benevolence can never
command. People say of Eastern nations,
that those who would hold sway over them
must needs make themselves feared, and
they do not enough consider that this is
almost as true at their own doors as it is
at the ends of the earth. When the villagers
had nodded and whispered in her presence,
mysteriously hinting that anybody at a

VOL. I. q

glance could see who these children were,
though she would not answer any questions,
she had inwardly felt that the great and
proud man whom they had in their thoughts
would know better  that he would write to
his son, who would at once reply that he
knew nothing about these children, and
there would be an end.

But here sat Sir Samuel, gazing at
Amabel and Delia with a scrutiny sometimes
keen, sometimes almost tender. He
was making them prattle ; he was at last
actually drawing his Windsor chair to the
table, and, at their desire, partaking of
the new potatoes which concluded their
meal.

He took so little notice of her that she
had no need to speak; and that homely
dignity which was natural to her coming to
her aid, she rose and began to wait on the
children and their guest, moving in and out
between the little front room where they

were dining and the tiny kitchen behind;
marking all the old man's efforts to please
the small coquettes, and how easily they
were won, and how engaging they were ;
and how noisy the canary was, bustling
about in his cage, and singing every time they
laughed, as if he longed for some attention
too ; how the pale, overblown roses outside
let their dropping leaves float in and drift
over the table-cloth.

For the first time in her life, as she stood
in the back kitchen, with hands pressed in
one another, listening, she felt a jealous
pang, not of her darlings themselves, but of
the refined grace and delicate beauty which
had so played into her hands as to make
the part she had chosen for herself easy.

It was easy to play the part of their nurse
she had elected to play it  and yet her
mother's heart resented its being always
taken for granted that she could be nothing-more.


I fare almost afraid they'll despise me
when they get a bit older," she thought.
If they do, dear lambs, I must take them
away from these gentlefolks before it's too
late."

Sir Samuel calling her, she came in and
found Amabel on his knee. The brown face
of little Dick was seen ; he was leaning in at
the casement, and Delia, leaning out, was
kissing him.

Beautiful little Dick was as happy about
that time as anything that breathes can be.
When they saw him Sir Samuel lost the
attention of the other children.

They must have their sun-bonnets on.
Mamsey must reach them down.

Did they love him ? Would they like
to see him again ? "

Oh yes, they liked him, they liked him
very much, but they wanted to go now with
Dick ; and presently they all three set forth
together down the quiet road to the vicarage,

leaving Sir Samuel and Mrs. Snaith
alone.

He was sitting in the Windsor chair, lost
in thought, and looking after the children
as well as the clustering rose-branches
would let him.

She stood a moment expecting him to
speak, but he did not ; and, unable to bear
inaction, she fetched in a tray, and when
he looked round, she was quietly clearing
the table, placing the remains of the simple
dinner upon it.

He got up and she paused.

"You have behaved with great discretion,"
he said with energy; " and the reticence
which I hear you have displayed 
the refusing, I mean, to answer people's
idle questions  has my entire approval,  I
may say, commands my respect."

Mrs. Snaith was silent.

"I am quite aware," he continued, "of
all that passed between you and Miss de

Berenger. I do not see that even she had
a right to expect a full account of matters
from you; but  but"  here he paused,
baffled by the nurse's grave silence  " but
the excellent care with which you fulfil your
trust deserves my thanks, and, as I said
before, your refusal to answer idle questions
commands my respect."

Thank you, sir. It is my wish to keep
quiet, and I don't fare to think I have any
call to answer questions."

"But if I asked you some," he answered,,
a little startled, " of course it would be
different."

I beg your pardon. Not at all different,
sir."

I am Sir Samuel de Berenger, Mr. John
de Berenger's father. Now what do you
say?"

Nothing, Sir Samuel."

Nothing ! You're ordered to keep
silence, even to me ? "

Sir, I never said I were under orders.
I am not."

Nonsense."

"And I ask your pardon, sir ; but if you
know all I said to Miss de Berenger, you
know all I ever shall say."

Why, you foolish woman, you are enough
to provoke a saint ! You quite mistake
your employer's meaning. What are you
afraid of? What do you mean? Do you
think you are to deny to me whose and what
these children are ? It's contrary to all
reason  contrary to my son's obvious meaning
; clean against their interest. W T hy,

it's I never met with such folly in

my life ! "

Here Sir Samuel launched into certain
violent denunciations against folly in
general, and this fool in particular ; but as
she did not further enrage him by making
any reply, but helplessly gazed at him while
he stormed at her, on the other side of the

table, he soon managed to calm himself
sufficiently to recur to the matter in hand.

And whatever may be your motive, I
tell you, there's no more use than there is
reason in your present line of conduct. It's
no use your denying to me that these are
my grandchildren, I can see it in their
faces. It's no use your denying to me
that they were thrown in my niece's way
on purpose that I might hear of them. No,
don't speak, woman  it's my turn to speak
now. I tell you all that stuff is of no use ;
I am not to be deceived."

In the energy of his indignation he leaned
over the table and shook his fist at her,
and reddened to the roots of his snowy
hair; while she, pale and doubtful, continued
to find safety only in silence. Every
moment for thought seemed to be something
won ; but she won many, and he
had checked himself, and sat down again in
his Windsor chair, and was fuming there in

more quiet fashion, while, still standing with
her hand upon the tray, she was searching
for some reply.

At last he said with a sigh, as if something
in his own mind had checked him as
much as her behaviour, " Perhaps the poor
lambs were not born in wedlock."

Oh yes, they were," she answered,
sharply and decidedly; " that's a question
I'd answer to anybody, let him be who he
would."

You can prove your words ? "

"I could, if there was any need, Sir
Samuel."

Makes nothing of me  cares nothing
what I think. But you never did, John.
If there twas any need ! "

You have a son, sir, by what I can make
out" said the nurse, finishing her sentence
with a certain emphasis.

Oh yes  a son; his conduct looks like
a son. You know well enough that I have
a son. What of him ? "

"If you'll give me leave to advise you,
sir "

"Well?"

Well, sir, though I don't know the
gentleman, I fare to think that if you
wrote to him he would answer like a gentleman,
and tell you "

"Tell me what?"

What would get the mistake out of
your head, sir."

I don't know where to find him."

"Indeed, sir," she answered slowly;
"then worse luck for me! And yet," she
continued, as if in deep cogitation, "there
are those not very far off that do know."

Sir Samuel did not at all doubt her
word, but he answered with the surprise
he really felt at her making such an admission.


"You don't say so ! "
Yes, sir, I do."

If I write a letter to my son and bring:

it to yon, will you promise to direct it to
horn ? " exclaimed the old baronet.

He regarded this admission as tantamount
to a confession of all, and she, considering,
on the contrary, that the letter
would be so answered as to put an end to
all, gave her consent.

I'm not that certain about it, sir, that
I can promise, but I will do my best."

He sat a few minutes longer, thinking
and calming himself, then rose and put on
his gloves, looking at her, meanwhile, almost
with a smile in his eyes. " You are a remarkably
inconsistent woman," he observed,
but not at all rudely.

"Sir!"

I said, Mrs. Snaith But, pooh !

what is the good of arguing ? Do you want
any money ? " he added sharply, and at the
same time pulling out his purse.

"No, sir," she answered, colouring and
drawing back.

Well, if you should, you'll know whom
to come to; and I'll send you down the
letter tomorrow. Good morning."

Good morning, Sir Samuel," said Mrs.
Snaith. And even to those simple words
she seemed to impart an air of thoughtfulness
and caution.

He went away without the shadow of
a doubt in his mind that these little girls
were his grandchildren ; and he did not consider,
what was not the less perfectly certain,
that if their nurse had made a claim on him,
and come to the village demanding that he
should acknowledge and assist them, he
would have required ample proof of their
rights in him, and perhaps not have been
at all cordial to them at first, though this
had been forthcoming.

As to the likeness. His son was a small,
fair man. Absence and love had done a
good work for his face in his father's recollection.
These small, fair creatures were

like what lie had been in complexion as a
child, but their dimpled features and dark
eyelashes were far different. Yet Sir
Samuel, reflecting on their sweet little
faces, absolutely felt, not only that they
recalled his son's childhood, but that he
had almost forgotten, till he saw them,
what a pretty and engaging little fellow
his son had been as a child.

Chapter X.

The next morning Sir Samuel's carriage
stopped again at the door of the tiny cottage.
A footman got down, went in, and
soon came back to his master, with " The
nurse's respects, Sir Samuel, and I was to
say, if you wished to see the young ladies,
they are up at the vicarage doing their
lessons."

I should like to see here''

She hopes you'll excuse her, Sir Samuel ;
she is making bread, and has her hands in
the dough."

Sir Samuel alighted, with the smallest of
brown paper parcels in his hand, and sought
Mrs. Snaith in her little clean back kitchen.

u I thought, Mrs. Snaith, I need not trouble
you to go all the way  a mile or more  to
the post with this. I can post it for you."

Oh, sir, it will be no trouble, thank
you kindly ; I have to walk over to the
shop."

If you'll give me pen and ink, I'll direct
it, then." He looked about, but saw nothing
excepting the copper before which
Mrs. Snaith was standing, with both hands
plunged into the bread-pan.

Mrs. Snaith, blushing, said she had no
pen and ink, but, if he would leave the letter,
it would go all right. " It's not often I have
to write anything," she continued, as if excusing
herself; " and my little ladies do
their copies at Mr. de Berenger's."

He half smiled, perceiving that his device
for obtaining the direction had for the present
failed.

I'll see that it go all right, sir," she
repeated.

He was too proud to sue for what he
wanted.

So be it, then," he answered, and took
a letter from the brown paper covering and
laid it on the clean edge of the copper. " I
shall be much obliged to you," he said, ashe
retired. " You'll let me pay for the
stamp, of course ? "

How simple she is ! " he thought. " She
might just as well have told me my poor
boy's address, considering how easy it will
be for me to find it out at the post-office."

But it did not prove so easy. In less thana
quarter of an hour Mr. Bolton passed, with
a light cart full of vegetables that he had
brought from the parsonage, and Mrs.
Snaith, coming out to him, asked him if he
would oblige a neighbour by getting that
letter sent to Mr. John de Berenger.

Mr. Bolton turned the letter over andover
several times, and looked critically at
the paper and curiously at Mrs. Snaith.

"I'll never breathe a word to any soul, if
you will, Mr. Bolton, how it was, or who it
was that got it done for me," she pleaded.

Still Mr. Bolton paused and seemed to
cogitate.

So she urged him further. " I've been
that annoyed lately about him, that I can't
bear myself till I get things explained."

"Well, you'll observe," answered Mr.
Bolton, answering what he supposed to be
her thought, but in fact only his own false
supposition  " you'll observe that there's
no post-office in nature equal to ours for
sureness ; and likewise, if you want a letter
to be forwarded, you must write that in
their foreign words ; also you should never
put ' esquire ' on a letter that's to go abroad
they're apt to mistake the word for a man's
name. And you've always got to repay a
foreign letter."

Mrs. Snaith produced a shilling, and to
her surprise received only sixpence change ;

VOL. I. E

but she was too polite to make any remark,
and, having given Mr. Bolton the letter,
hastened to escape from a subject almost
sure to lead to questioning.

And how is your good lady, Mr. Bolton ?
I saw her on Saturday in the shop, looking
as fresh as a rose."

Fresh she is!" answered Mr. Bolton
with enthusiasm. He had lately married
a wife many years younger than himself.
Fresh she is, and always pleased. What
her father said has come true. i Cornelius,'
says the old gentleman (he's in the shoe
line), i Cornelius, you'll find her a rare one
to make you laugh ; her cheerful temper is
as good as a daily blow out.' "

Mrs. Snaith, considering this a vulgar
compliment, instinctively drew herself up ;
but the proud husband was spared any
observation of her silent disapproval, for at
that instant the horse, perhaps thinking he
had waited long enough in the sun, suddenly

-started clown the road at a good pace, and
Mr. Bolton, after calling to him in vain to
stop, had to run after him. Mrs. Snaith
only remained outside till he was seated and
had the reins in his hand, then went in, glad
to have got the letter forwarded, but with a
lowered opinion of Mr. Bolton, as rather
countrified and common, considering what
a good shop he had, and that he kept the
post-office.

Sir Samuel, who was not at all in the
habit of shopping, went into Mr. Bolton's
shop the next day, feigning to want some
melon-seed, of which he ordered a ridiculously
large quantity, and then asked Mrs.
Bolton what foreign letters had been posted
that day, or the day before.

It appeared that no foreign letters whatever
had been posted for more than a
fortnight.

Sir Samuel brought himself to say, "I
have lost my son's (Mr. John de Berenger's)

address; if one directed to him should be*
posted, will you kindly copy the address forme?"


"I will, Sir Samuel," said young Mrs.
Bolton; and when her husband came in,
she related to him what had passed.

Lost the address, have the old gentleman
? " quoth Mr. Bolton, calmly. " Well,
now, his gardener won't put those melon-seeds
in, I know, but they must be sent.
Only think of old Sam's losing the
address ! "

"It's a pity but what he was more
careful, " observed Mrs. Bolton ; and so few
letters passed through her hand, that it
gave her no trouble to keep this request
in mind.

Four days passed. " John's not in
England," thought Sir Samuel, " or I
should have had an answer before now'"
Two more days passed. " John's not
in France," thought he, A fortnight.

" John's not in Italy, nor in Germany
either." Six weeks. " John's not in the
States  at least, anywhere near the seaboard
 nor in Canada."

Three more months, and a letter from
Ceylon, in John's handwriting, was lying
on his table. It was dated from a small
place up the country, among the coffee
plantations  was a very satisfactory letter
on the whole ; but the father soon saw, both
by the date and the contents, that his son
had not yet received the important letter.
With a certain moderation of compunction
which, however, satisfied Sir Samuel, he
expressed his regret that his family, and
his father in particular, had no better
reason to be proud of him. He hoped todo
better ; had got employment that
maintained him, and should write from
time to time. This was a very hot place 
steaming hot ; in fact, he had to have a
black boy standing beside him while he

shaved, to wipe the dew that every few
minutes gathered and clouded the looking-glass.
The hoots he took off at night were
covered in the morning with mould.
But there was plenty of alligator shooting
; he and some other fellows had shot
two the week before. This was on the
third page. His father went on to the
end, which, with a description of how the
other fellows who were newly come out
funked" when they saw a serpent, ended
rather abruptly, "Your affectionate son,.
John de Berenger."

Sir Samuel's heart was appeased ; both
his pride and his affection soothed themselves
over this letter. "The boy has-not
forgotten me; and he means to do
better. Well, well, he has sown his wild
oats. He will make me proud of him
after all. Been in Ceylon six weeks, after
stopping at Heidelberg all the winter
Ah!"

In the mean time Ann Thimblebyby fulfilled
her task of education as well as she knew
how ; she was lucky enough to take
sufficient interest in it to induce her to
make experiments, and when one failed
she tried another. At that time her
inquisitive mind was much exercised on
the subject of etymology, but the pains she
took to instil some liking for it into the
minds of her two elder pupils bore no fruit,
excepting to make them like playing with
words, while the little ones became familiar
with a few uncommon expressions, which
they used glibly in then childish talk.

u He's a greedy, nefarious boy," said
Amabel to Sir Samuel, speaking of Dick;
and we're not friends with him."

Sir Samuel had come to see the children ;
he was seated in a chair on the parsonage
lawn when she said this, and a slight
stirring, five feet from the ground, in the
great fir tree, made him cast up an inquiring

glance, and observe Dick looking out,
shamefaced and red.

"What has he been about?" asked the
old man, more to make the fair little
creature talk than with any interest in
Dick's delinquency.

Coz gave each of us a sugared almond,"
said Amabel, pouting. "I said, ' Dick, you

may take a bite of mine,' and he Oh,

Dick, you in-principled boy, you gobbled
it all up  and now," she continued, with
deep melancholy, " I can never get it back."

Dick felt at that moment as much shame
as mortals can feel for any delinquency
whatever, shame being born with us fullgrown,
and beginning, as a rule, to wax
feeble before we have the truest cause to
feel it. He wondered how it could have
come to pass that he had done an action
so utterly to be despised  wondered
whether it would be forgotten by the
time he was grown up  and felt, though

he was not equal to the expression of such
a thing, that his future prospects were
blasted, and his young life nipped as by
a spring blight. How could he ever show
his face again !

He moved uneasily on his branch, hiding
himself among the thick greenery, and
with dreary compunction listened to the
conversation below, which was very friendly
and confiding. But could he believe his
ears ? In spite of what had unfortunately
occurred, the old uncle in a very few
minutes was actually calling to him.

Come down, you little scaramouch ;
come here, I say. Do you see what this
is?"

A whole shilling ! Not a new one, it is true,
but good for buying things with. Evidently
for him ! There was a reprieve. He descended,
blushing with beautiful confusion,
took it, darted out of the gate with it to
a cottage below Mrs. Snaith's, and returned,

almost able to hold up his head, with a
goodly quantity of " bell's-eyes " screwed up
in paper.

These articles of commerce have almost
disappeared from any but village shops.
They are round lumps of sugar, flavoured
with peppermint, and marked across with
blue and red bands.

Dick squatted down beside Amabel, and
opened the screw of paper. Sir Samuel was
just thinking that she was a far lovelier
child than her father had ever been.

"No," said the little creature, declining
this peace-offering, "I don't like them,
Dick; when I open my mou they make
my tongue feel so cold."

She turned away her face  but how
useful it is to have money !

"You're cross," said Dick. "I'm very
sorry. Do kiss me this once and make
it up."

I don't want to kiss you," said Mabel

"Do," pleaded Dick. "Well, if you
will, Til give you the other sixpence ! "

There was the sixpence in his hand.
Amabel looked at it  paused, relented.
"If you'll go with me to the shop to
spend it," she said, " I will."

Thereupon the two children kissed each
other, and being now good friends again,
left the bell's-eyes on the grass and ran
off together through the vicarage gate ;
while the giver of the shilling was left
to amuse himself with little dimpled Delia,
who, seated on his knee, answered his
questions about the seaside, and her lessons,
and Mamsey, as well as she knew how.

A certain tenderness towards the children
softened his heart, and made him feel
younger again. The love of money gave
way before it to a sufficient degree for the
decision which he had formed, that they
should never want for anything. Little
Delia's lisping tongue reminded him of the

infantile talk of his own sons in their childhood.
He had taken no interest in, and
made few observations on, other children ;
therefore, when the behaviour of Amabel
and Delia stirred in him slumbering recollections
of his own nursery, he regarded
this as a proof of likeness to his family,
and did not know that such were the
common ways and wiles, and this was the
ordinary English of childhood in general.

"But the motive," thought Sir Samuel,
when, having mounted his horse, he went
slowly along the shady road that led from
the vicarage past the nurse's, and past
two or three other cottages, towards his
own gate  " the motive. No human being
acts without a motive, and I cannot seethe
motive, however mistaken, that induces
this woman to deny that these are John's
children. Why, they're as like him as
they can stare; and I could declare, when
I see their little ways and hear them lisp,

that it's ray own boys over again." He
paused, then went on slowly : " He might,
to be sure, have threatened her that, if
she told, he would stop the supplies  for,
of course, he was always in imminent
danger of being arrested whenever he came
to see them ; but he sailed about the
time that she brought them here, no
doubt by his orders. Well, I must wait.
It is still just "possible they may not be
his, after all (pooh ! it's not possible, though).
However, he will not be long in letting me
know. And considering that I've offered to
take the whole charge of them, and provide

for them too, if they are  Here comes

Felix, looking as if he had the weight of
the world on his shoulders.  Well, nephew
parson, how are you ? "

Felix observed a certain familiar way in
the greeting, a cordiality that he was not
accustomed to. Not to be outdone, he
shook hands with his uncle when the old

man stopped his horse, and asked where he
could have been riding during the hottest
hours of such a hot day.

Sir Samuel told him ; went a little from
the subject to remark, in a casual way, that
one ol the little girls looked pale, and then
said abruptly, "I suppose I shall have to
send her to the sea."

Now, Felix knew that John de Berenger
had written to his father. " Has John
acknowledged them, then ? " he exclaimed
with vehemence.

Sir Samuel admitted that he had not ;
though, putting this thing and that thing
together, nephew parson," he continued,
I no more doubt the fact than you do."

Felix paused ; his conduct; certainly
appeared to show that he did not doubt it.
His aunt Sarah had taught the children
to call him Coz, and he had not forbidden
it. "While he was considering what answer
to make, Sir Samuel repeated his former
argument with himself.

"But, then, no human being acts without
a motive, Felix."

Certainly not."

"What motive can that woman have,
nephew parson, in declaring that these
children are none of mine ? "

1 do not see that a motive is very far to
seek," observed Felix, "if that is what you
want."

Nephew parson, that precise thing is
what I do want."

She is all-powerful while she receives
whatever John allows the children, and
spends it as she pleases."

"True true."

She has an excellent situation, and an
almost independent one. I have a good
opinion of her. I think it probable she does
not know the children are anything to you.
John may have chosen her through an
agent ; through an agent he may correspond
with her. If you take them up, you make

her place a sinecure, perhaps in the end
dismiss her. How natural she should be
hard to persuade that you have any right
to them."

But she knows that John is my son 
and  and the fact is, she undertook, before
I had his address, to get a letter sent to
him."

She did ! " exclaimed Felix.

Sir Samuel nodded. Mrs. Snaith, in the
opinion of Felix, forthwith went down ; he
was rather sorry.

Now, as you are good at motives," continued
the old man, " find me a motive for
John's behaviour, nephew parson ; there is
that to think of also."

Very true," said Felix, and he went on
slowly : " John's motive, I should say, is
transparent enough. It is evident that he
has no claim, unless these are the children
of a marriage."

Sir Samuel seemed to wince a little here.

The only marriage I ever heard of that
John wanted to make was one that yon
most violently opposed."

"I always shall oppose it," cried Six
Samuel, very red in the face. "I always
will oppose it, to the last breath I can
draw. Why  why, the fools had nothing
to live upon  nothing at all."

"No," said Felix, rather coldly; "and
yet it may have taken place, and these
may be the offspring of it."

"A Dissenting minister's daughter ! "

"Yes. Well, all that supposed, one may
suppose also that John thinks these children
have a better chance of pleasing you, if he
does not force them on your notice, than if
he does ; but it is quite a work of supererogation
to make out motives either for him
or the nurse. The wisest course, I should
say, is to regard everything as absolutely
uncertain till next mail day, when all will
be set at rest."

VOL. I. s

11 Extraordinary ! " he thought, when the
two had parted, and were going different
ways. " So proud as old Sam is, that he
should have demeaned himself to communicate
with his own son, through the favour
of a servant !

The fools had nothing to live on. Of
course not. He brought up John to no profession,
and made him no regular and proper
allowance ; now he smarts for it, and perhaps
for preventing that marriage as well. He
might have maintained John married for
half what he has cost him single. As far as
I know, John never went wrong till the
quarrel about that poor girl.

I have never believed there was any
instinctive drawing in the heart of a parent
towards a stranger child. Is it possible that
I see it here ? He will have it so. He is
determined to believe that these little
creatures are his grandchildren.

They are no trouble about the place, but

I feel, and I suppose I shall feel, that their
probably being something to him makes
me no better inclined to regard them as
something to me."

Felix spoke with a touch of bitterness.
Sir Samuel had never so much as asked
after Amias, the young nephew whose
boyish escapade had deprived him of an
-excellent opening and future provision.
Felix, being absolutely honest with himself,
admitted mentally that, if the boy had
settled to the brewery business, it would
not have hurt his own conscience : people
must have beer, just as they must have
money; the abuse of either, or both, is their
own affair. But now that the youth had
broken away from his uncle, had given such
reasons for the rash act, and was taking
the consequences, on the whole, well and
humbly, Felix would have denied himself
every comfort in life rather than have
interfered with his conscience.

So yon met Uncle Sam?" observed
Amias that evening. " I am glad I did not."

"Why?"

"Because you say he was cordial, and
that aggravates me. I don't like to think
he is happy and jolly, helping everybody
to get drunk; and I am not happy
because "

Well ? " said Felix, with a smile.

Amias paused.

"You, at least, may wish him well," said
Felix; "he has never shown anything but
kindness to you."

"But I hope it will stick in his conscience,"
observed Amias, "how all the
judges talk against publicans and public-houses.
Why, I was reading only this morning,
that in some of the great towns two-thirds
of the public-houses are brewers'
property, and that they buy up the publishing
old tenements and let them out at a low
rent, on condition that all the stuff sold in

them shall he of their own brewing. I
hate the publicans."

That's a fine Christian sentiment. Do
you think there's no such thing as intemperance
excepting in the case of strong
drink; or can you really think that nobody
is to blame for the drunkenness that
degrades the country, excepting the distillers,
the brewers, and the publicans ? "
Why, what do you think, Felix ? "
"I think they are no worse than other
people, excepting when they make direct
efforts to keep up the present state of
things, after having had the misery of it
pointed out to them. We are all to
blame, we and our fathers."

No worse ?  the publicans no worse ? "
Unless they adulterate."
But they do. We know they put aquafortis
in. And do you call oil of juniper, and
calculus indices, and photo phosphate of
iron proper things to drink ? Did you never

hear of these drugs? And are you not aware
that at many public-houses you can hardly
get such a thing as unadulterated beer, and
that they put salt in it on purpose to make
people thirsty? "

Your voice is a little cracked at present,
which makes me think you may be rather
young just yet to lecture with good effect,
on this or any other subject."

You are always so abominably calm,
Felix. Well, anyhow, what I don't know
yet about temperance, I shall find in my
copy of ' The Publican's Mixing and Reducing
Book.' I shall learn it all by heart,
with its vile receipts for purifying tainted
gin, etc. But you have no zeal ; you are
always making game of a fellow."

On the contrary, your enthusiastic desire
to do some good, and your ardent indignation
against evil practices, are the qualities I
like most in you. What I find ridiculous is
that you are so positive."

u I certainly clo wish that most of the
breweries and distilleries had accidentally
got blown up ; and I wish most of the public-houses
were forcibly shut up  prohibited."

But not all?"

11 No, there must be some."

' How the ' some ' would thrive ! Many
people, however, see great danger in legal
restraints. That a thing should be dangerous
and wrong, gives it often attraction enough ;
that it should also be forbidden, so far as is
possible, might give it an extra charm."

But that is not your view ? "

Perhaps not. Others reason thus. The
French are a very sober people ; every man
of them may make his own wine, any man
may sell it any r here. What we should try
for, rather than restriction, is freedom."

I never thought of that."

But you should think; and you should
learn all that can be known on all points
beforehand. And you must give up wholesale

charges and exaggerations. There is also
a certain thing that you would do well to
settle forthwith, which is, whether it would
give you most delight to reclaim two or
three drunkards, or to make old Sam ridiculous
in his own neighbourhood, and to
know that everybody blamed him, and
talked of the feud between you."

Two or three, Felix ! You might at
least allow a fellow two or three dozen. Am
I to give up riches and independence, and
perhaps a seat in Parliament, for two or
three?"

"You may be fairly said to have given
these things up for nothing, for no principle
whatever  merely for a ridiculous joke."

Well, it was rather hard upon you, old
man ; I know that."

"And it seems to me that you live upon
the hope that you shall one day justify that
joke."

"Soldo."

I consider that a low motive  any tiling
but heroic, anything hut philanthropic."

"Well, I cannot be such a prig as to
pretend that I think of nothing but philanthropy.
' There's a mister, sir,' as Bolton
said ; ' you can't expect to find no tares at
all in the best bag of seed-corn.' But perhaps
you think the ' mister ' consists of a
few grains of corn in a bag of tares ? "

I wish you to go away, not thinking of
yourself as a martyr to principle, but simply
as having made a joke and paid for it, and
having now got to earn a living, if possible,
in a manly, commonplace fashion. As for
your zeal in the cause of temperance, I
shall think something of it when you propose
to begin to work for it in London, and
nothing at all, so long as the joy of it
depends on some great commotion made in
our little town, just at our old uncle's gates.
As I said to you just now, we are all  that
is, all this nation which calls itself Christian

to blame for the present state of things.
It is the selfishness of the whole community
the crowding up of the poor in foul air,
where they crave stimulus, because they
have not enough oxygen ; it is the sordid
way in which we have let them live, without
any sort of culture, without ennobling
amusements, without enough of anything 
enough variety of food, enough light, enough
warmth, enough joy, enough kindly fellowship
with those that are better of! ;  it is our
whole attitude toward them which has
helped, not to make them a drunken people 
for that they always were  but to keep them
one. Our fathers drank deeply ; we have,
during the last three generations, been
slowly struggling upward toward sobriety.
We had every help ; we only give them one
help  the pledge. Do you think that if
every drop of whisky, gin, and ale could be
sunk into the sea, and the trade in liquor
be stopped, it would make people sober?

No. It might, with every other aid that
could possibly be thought of, put an end to
half the drunkenness ; but it is a natural
instinct in man to long for stimulus when
he is overworked, or weary, or sick, or sad,
or when he has been used to have it ; and
the other half would all turn brewers and
distillers on their own account. You cannot
undo the evil work of many generations
with a few rough and ready schemes;
you must be patient and painstaking, and
you must not, above all, try to shove off the
blame on other men's shoulders."

"All right, old man," said Amias, almost
humbly.

He was to go away to London the
next morning, at a very inconveniently
early hour, by a third-class train; Felix
having, after great efforts, at last got him
into a Government office, at a salary on
which it was hardly possible for him to
be wholly maintained. He was to take

Sarah DE BEEENGEE.

with, him rather a large hamper of potatoes
and other roots, with a few green vegetables
also, so as to eke out his first attempt
at providing for himself in his lodgings.
Felix was to send him fruit and vegetables
now and then. This was by their aunt
Sarah's advice, and was worth while, as
she explained to the brothers, because the
lodgings Amias was to occupy were close
to the railway station. " You can give
your landlady a vegetable marrow or two,"
she observed; " but, whether or not, you
will probably, for reasons of her own, find
her always willing to send for your hamper.
The children might have gathered you
more currants if Ann had superintended
properly, but, if you'll believe me, I found
her among the cabbages, telling them that
those tiresome white butterflies were considered
by the Greeks to be emblems of
your soul, and hunting out with dictionaries
the derivations of a slug."

CHAPTEK XI.

So Amias was gone. And Sir Samuel,
when he quite by chance discovered this,
felt somewhat aggrieved. It was manifest
that he ought to have been told, and if
the matter had been laid before him in a
proper spirit, he should have given Amias
something towards the needful expenses.
He said so to his niece Sarah. "But I
am not asked," he continued, with bitterness,
"not consulted at all. Oh dear, no;
that family is much too proud to take any
help from me."

"Why doesn't he give it without being
asked? Why doesn't he send Amias a

cheque now?" thought the good lady.
He a] ways reminds me of an onion
for we all, as it is said, resemble in some
degree one or other of the inferior animals).
His conscience is wrapped round with as
many layers to cover it from the light,
as the heart of an onion. The outside
layer is avarice. Yes ; very thick. Peel
that off, you come to a layer of self-conceit ;
peel again, you come to his scruples  a
sort of mock conscience. He must not do
anything so wrong as to help Felix unless
Amias first humbles himself."

It never occurred to Miss de Berenger
for a moment that she ought to help her
nephew Felix herself. And as he had been
used to her all his life, and been accustomed
to accept her at her own valuation of herself,
it never occurred to him either. One
duty was strongly impressed on her mind ;
this was the duty of paying her bills. She
generally incurred debts, to the full amount

of her income. Her course was plain ; she
must pay them.

But she frequently came and stayed with
Felix, kept his house for the time, and
paid her exact proportion of the expenses,
besides almost always suggesting some plan
by which he saved something or gained
some advantage.

She was always welcome. He found her
inconsequent speeches and simple shrewdness
in action decidedly attractive and
refreshing. Family affection is so far from
following in the wake of esteem, that
merely to be sure of it and depend on it,
is often to have it. Those who are loved,
not for any special qualities in themselves,
but just because they are human beings,
and stand near to us, are almost sure to
retain affection ; for they always will be
human beings, and the longer they stand
near to us the more at ease we shall feel
with them. What so comfortable, what so

delightful, as perfect ease ? Nothing in the
world can surpass it but perfect love, and
that we cannot all expect.

When Felix, the very first time he entered
his empty rectory house, found his aunt
there before him, inspecting the cupboards
and having one cleaned out, he did not
interfere with her, did not even ask hera
question ; in a man's indolent way, he
thought she knew what she was about.

Yes," she presently observed, " you've
got dozens of empty pickle bottles and
empty marmalade pots over at your lodgings.
I shall have those beer bottles saved too,
and put in here till we want them."

Felix was surprised, but he let her alone,
and she locked the closet and took away
the key.

A good while after this, she drove up in
her pony-carriage, saying she had come
to stay a week, and producing a great
parcel of sugar, for which Felix was to pay.

Bolton will not buy the common gooseberries
and cherries at all; they are so
cheap this year." And she forthwith
bustled into the garden and set everybody,
excepting the vicar, to work to gather
fruit. " I shall have a quantity of jam
made of the gooseberries," she observed
to her nephew; "it will scarcely cost you
threepence a pot. And the gooseberries
could not be bottled, because the beer
bottles have such narrow necks ; they would
stick in them. I shall bottle the red
currants. There are sixty bottles ; I counted
them. I shall save out one dozen for
mulberry syrup." Thereupon she produced
the big key of the cupboard, and before
the week was over, there was a fine store
of jam and excellent bottled fruit in the
house.

Felix, of course, was glad; he knew
enough about his own affairs to be sure
that this would be a saving in his house-vol.

I. T

keeping, and also make his table more
various. But lie did not thank his aunt ;
he was just as well aware that it was
a great joy to her to intermeddle in his
matters, as she was that she might avail
herself of the privilege, and yet count on
his belief that all her intermeddling was
for the best.

But to return to Sir Samuel and his
important letter. The mails had now gone
by, and there was no answer. He wrote
again, and in case the first should have
miscarried, he entered on all the particulars
once more in a second letter.

Then it occurred to him that Mrs. Snaith
might, in all good faith, have sent the first
letter to Heidelberg, not being aware of
his son's change of address. He wrote,
and after complying with certain forms,
got it back from the poste-r est ante. He
hardly knew whether to be most annoyed
or relieved  so much time lost. But, then,

his son had not received a letter from him
that he had neglected to answer.

It was now Christmas ; he knew that he
must wait till March, and felt that he must
not make himself ridiculous meanwhile by
having the two little girls to his house, or
by in any other way seeming to acknowledge
them before the thine.

But he accepted and returned nods and
smiles, even at the church doors ; sometimes
the parties exchanged kisses in less public
places. The children liked to see his whitehead.
Once Amabel climbed upon the seat
of the pew at church, when the sermon was
long, and looked over the high back, as if to
ascertain whether he was in his place. Miss
Thimblebyby, who was in charge of her and
the other two children, quietly took her
down, but the entire congregation saw the
pretty smile with which she had greeted
the old man, and his involuntary answer
to it.

Felix wrote constantly to his brother,
and gave him all manner of good counsel,
which Amias was assisted to follow by his
very straitened circumstances. He said
as little as he possibly could in answer
concerning this want of money, but the
discipline of life was very strict upon him
that winter and spring. He was poorer
than any of the young fellows with whom
he was associated. During the first week
of his sojourn his story came out, and he
passed for a kind of hero among them;
though almost all thought him a fool for
his pains, and would have thought him
a prig too, but for the open and boyish
sincerity with which he made his love of
temperance depend on his anger against his
old uncle. Many and many a temperance
lecture was rehearsed in the presence of
those choice spirits, his companions, without
the faintest thought of influencing
their habits in regard to strong drink, but
simply to delight them by reproducing the

ridiculous action and uncultivated language
of certain zealots whom lie now and then
went to hear. He was a water-drinker,
but escaped ridicule, because it was felt
that this was not from high principle, but
from indignation against his uncle for
repudiating him. In the mean while it
came in his way  for no better reason than
has been given  to accumulate a vast
amount of information concerning the
misery and crime arising from drunkenness,
the almost incredible sums paid by the
poor for the chinks that are their ruin, and
the constant temptations set before them
on all sides. These facts, when he had time
to think them over, sometimes impressed
him a good deal.

Early in April a letter from Felix let him
know that old Sam was in great affliction ;
the news had just reached him that his son
John had died of fever in Ceylon, and he
could not hold up his head at all.

Poor old boy!" thought the inconsequent

youth. " Well, after all, malt liquor (if
only it could be got good and pure) is very
wholesome ; it's the public-houses that want
doing away with." So he schooled his
mind for a little while into less intemperate
thoughts upon temperance.

John de Berenger, in fact, never read his
father's important letter. The news of his
death was communicated by a friend, a
young man who was staying with him when
his short illness came on, and who wrote of
him very kindly, assuring his father that
everything had been done for his comfort.
Also, the letter was returned. The stranger
apologized for having opened and read it, asa
means of discovering to whom he should
send the sad news. In consequence of the
questions asked in it, he had collected every
scrap of writing and every letter that he
could find among John de Berenger's effects,
and now forwarded them. He had not read
them, but thought it right to tell Sir Samuel

that, though the sick man had talked freely
of his past life during the earlier stages
of his illness, he had uttered no word that
seemed to bear at all on such a matter as
his father's letter unfolded.

Sir Samuel mourned for his son, and said
to himself, "In a very short time I shall
know all. The news of poor John's death
will fall on that woman like a thunderbolt.
Has she received it yet ? Evidently not. I
am left to tell it to whomsoever it may
concern."

He searched the few letters that had been
sent through and through; most of them
contained pressing requests for payment of
certain debts. There was not one that
could possibly have come from Mrs. Snaith,
or that seemed to concern the two little
girls in any way whatever.

But I have the whip-hand of her now,"
thought Sir Samuel. " She will see his
death in the paper, even if the whole village

is not eager to tell it to her beforehand.
As he has left absolutely nothing behind
him, no more supplies can reach her. She
will be glad enough soon to come to me and
tell the whole truth. I shall not make the
first move."

Mrs. Snaith knew what ample time had
passed since the sending of her letter for an
answer to reach Sir Samuel from any part
of the world. He had not told her that he
had received one  in fact, he had not spoken
to her since she had taken the letter from
his hand. She had often met him in the
road, but had never accosted him. If he
was quite satisfied now that he had made a
ridiculous mistake, there was no need to
make him own it, and thus, perhaps, bring
herself the dreaded question, " These
children, not being my son's, why are they
here ? Whose are they ? "

She always took refuge in silence, and
tried to efface herself as much as possible

from the thoughts of others. Sometimes
she thought she would steal away from her
cottage, and again take the children among
strangers ; but then careful reflection seemed
to assure her that where she now was
people had got used to her, and had ceased
to wonder at her. There had seemed to bea
mystery, but all the villagers considered
that they had solved it, and all the same
way; there was no difference of opinion.
What talk there still was, chiefly concerned
what old Sam would do, and why the family,
who doubtless knew all, were so silent
about it. Besides, the children were well,
happy, receiving a very good education,
and were already too familiar with these
De Berengers ever to forget them. Moreover,
if she fled, it would not only rouse
curiosity to the utmost, but Miss de Serene
would be almost certain to start in
pursuit, and in all probability would eventually
find her.

The foolish have us far more in their
power than the wise. If it had not been
for Sarah de Berenger, Mrs. Snaith felt
that she could have confided the whole
truth to Felix, got him to keep it absolutely
secret, and also help her to get away; but
nothing could possibly be confided to Sarah y
or it would come out ; and if it was not
confided, she would search for the children,
meanwhile raising such a commotion, that
the matter was sure to get into the newspapers
as a strange and romantic story.
Sarah would, perhaps, be silly enough to
publish descriptions of the children, with
their Christian names ; these alone would
be sufficient to rouse the suspicions of any
person whatever among her old friends.
Finally, some hint of it would reach the
Dills, and, through them, the dreaded convict
husband.

Sarah was away from her home when the
news of John's death reached her. She

came back and flew to Mrs. Snaith, asking
where the darlings were.

"At the vicarage, ma'am, doing then
lessons."

"And their mourning  is that ordered?
Sir Samuel will, of course, expect to see
them in proper mourning."

It was no use pretending to misunderstand,
but Mrs. Snaith felt confident of her
ground, and was determined to hold it
"No, ma'am," she answered. " You have
no call to trouble yourself any further about
that mistake. I take leave to tell you that
Sir Samuel expect nothing of the kind."

That was on a Tuesday. Miss de Berenger
considered that there would be plenty of
time to get mourning ready by Sunday, and
she wrote to Sir Samuel about it.

"The woman wants money already," he
thought; "let her come and ask for it."
And he wrote to his niece more curtly than
kindly, desiring her not to interfere.

Mrs. Snaith did not apply for money, and
at the end of the week Sir Samuel went
to London, feeling that this was only a
question of time.

In the mean while, knowing that whatever
she did would make fresh talk, Mrs. Snaith
dressed the children on Sunday in clean
white frocks and white hats as usual, and
sent them up to the vicarage, but had not
courage to attend the morning service herself.


When the children came home to dinner,
each had a black sash on. Cousin Sarah
had sent them, they said, in answer to her
questions, and Miss Thimblebyby had put
them on.

Mrs. Snaith shed a few quiet tears of
vexation then. Sarah's folly had mastered
her again.

To be in London a full year before he
could hope for a holiday. This was the lot

of Annas, and what a long, slow, dark, and
dirty year it seemed.

Occasionally, towards the end of it, he
began to dream of the old church tower,
and the rooks floating high above it in the
clear elastic air, and to dream of scarlet
strawberries ripening on their beds, and
meadows full of buttercups, and hay being
cut in the clear heat of noon, and of other
common country sights and sounds which
had never impressed him at all while he
lived among them; also of Felix and of
that little monkey Dick. Like those of
many another boy, his affections had
slumbered a good deal since his childhood.
They were waking. He found that he was
rather attached to his elder brother; and
when Dick sent him letters of wholly
intolerable badness, as regarded both the
writing and the orthography, he read them
over with a certain keenness of pleasure,
recalled the beautiful little brown face,

imagined that he had always been very fond
of Dick, and wondered whether the little
fellow was grown.

April, May, and June went by. Sir Samuel,
still in London, received no application from
Mrs. Snaith ; " but," he argued, " she may
have been paid a quarter's allowance for the
children just before my poor son's death."

He wrote to Felix, requesting him not to
lend her any money.

She may think," he considered, "that
poor John has left money in the hands of
his agent, and that through him she shall
receive it. She cannot know as I do that
he left nothing whatever behind him but
his debts, and that I have his papers in my
hands, which prove it fully. I wish I knew
my dear boy's motive, though."

So he deluded himself. The human mind
is always inexorable in demanding a motive
for all human actions. It is only himself
that each man permits to act without one,

and aVails himself of the privilege with
astonishing frequency ; sometimes letting a
momentary caprice push itself in and snatch
a reasonable motive out of his hand ; sometimes,
from mere indolence or inattention,
failing to make out what he means to do
till the thing does itself, and he, still hesitating,
looks on and lets it alone.

Sir Samuel kept hesitating, and failing to
make out what he wanted in this particular
instance. The children were receiving an
excellent education, were taken very great
care of by their nurse, and  he w T as not
asked for a shilling. He did not distinctly
put this and that together, but waited on
occasion and let things drift. When he
thought of future expense, he hardly knew
what he believed concerning these little
girls ; when he thought of his dear dead son,
he did know. But his asking questions
would not make them any more his grandchildren,
if such they were, while it would,

as he thought, bring him their bills to pay.
No, it would be dangerous to investigate.
He should now not encourage that woman
to talk. He elected to leave things alone,
and he had to take the consequences.

Thus the days and weeks went by, till
that happy time arrived when Amias was
to go home for his destined holiday.

A slow third-class train was alone within
his means, and the nearest station being
seven miles from his brother's house, he
was not to be met, but to send his box
on by a carrier, and walk over himself.

It was about eight o'clock in the evening
of a very hot day when he stepped forth
for his walk, first across a good many fields,
then over the end of a great common,
next through Sir Samuel de Berenger's
wood, and finally along the winding country
lane that went past his brother's gate.

He was still half a mile from it. The
slow dusk had begun to gather; large

flowers of the bindweed, trailing over trie
low wayside hedge, were mere specks of
milky whiteness; he could but just distinguish
between them and the dogroses,
could hardly detect the honeysuckle but
for its fragrance.

Delightful ! " he thought, as he strode
on. " The smell of things in this lane is
worth all the sights in London put together.
Whew! what's that?"

He stopped. No cottage within a hundred
yards, and yet a pungent, powerful whiff
of something worse than London fog or
smoke came past him, and lost itself among
the honeysuckle. A smell of burning.
He wondered  strode on  admitted to himself,
almost with fear, that it was odd no
one had come even thus far to meet him.
Then, all on a sudden, behold, a great gap !
Some slight thing fell with hardly a sound,
and up mounted a shower of sparks. He
ran on, shouting out in the dusk 

VOL. i. u

"Why  why, there's something wrong!
What's up? What can he the matter?
Mrs. Snaith's cottage is gone ! "

Mrs. Snaith's cottage was gone indeed 
its place was vacant ; it was burnt to the
ground. A few singed hollyhocks leaned
forlornly forward to the road ; two elms,
with all their leaves shrivelled up, held
out bare and ghastly arms ; a puff of smoke
came now and then from a dark heap of
ashes, and a few sparks would mount when
fanned by evening air.

Amias rushed on, dashed through a
scattered group of people who seemed to
be watching the rectory gates, and, encountering
his aunt in the hall, demanded
vehemently to be assured that Felix was
all right.

"Yes, yes," quoth Sarah; "he's in his
room, changing his singed clothes. You
needn't bang at his door like a burglar," she
panted, for she had pursued him upstairs.

I knew he would be in the scrimmage '
-cried Annas, as Felix, opening his door
a little way, let his brother in. ?' And
where's Dick?" shouted Amias through the
keyhole, having satisfied himself at once
that his brother was none the worse. He
opened the door about an inch to receive
her answer.

"He never was near the fire," quoth
Miss de Berenger. "As soon as I heard
of it I ran into the garden, and there I
found him, enjoying the prowl of innocence,
his cat and his owl after him. He's
safe in bed now, very sulky to think what
fun there has been and he not in it."

"Anybody hurt?" asked Amias, as he
was proceeding down a passage to look at
Dick.

"Yes; Mrs. Snaith, a little, foolish
woman. And old Nanny Fothergill was
frightened almost into a fit, seeing the
flames through her window."

"Oh, she's alive yet ? "

Yes," quoth Miss de Berenger. "She's
not at all an irreligious woman, though
she has lived to be ninety-four. I don't
know how she reconciles that with c the
days of our life,' you know, \ are threescore
years and ten.' At the same time,"
she continued, falling into thought, " I am
quite clear that it would not be right of
her to hasten matters."

CHAPTER XII.

The return of Amias had, indeed, followed
closely on the conclusion of an exciting
occurrence.

It was Thursday evening ; Felix always
had full service then, and a sermon.

This was the favourite religious occasion
of the week, and (except during the harvest)
very well attended. A time-honoured
institution; the ringers ushered it in with
a cheerful peal. Then, when days were
long, the outlying hamlets, and not unfrequently
the adjacent parishes, contributed
their worshippers ; and even some people
from the little town (former parishioners

of Felix) would walk over to join, and see
how he fared. Then every old woman, as
she came clattering up the brick aisle, felt
some harmless pride in herself; she knew
she must be welcome, helping to swell the
congregation. She looked at Felix, as he
stood gravely waiting in the desk, and
he looked at her.

Then were given out long-winded hymns y
clear to all the people. Then the rustic
choir broke out into manifold quavers, and
sang with a will. Then shrill, sweet voices
of children answered, and farmers' wives put
in like quavers (but more genteelly) ; while
the farmers themselves, and the farmers'
men, did their share with a gruff heartiness,
not untuneful. Then, also, the " Method
folk," having no " Bethel" of their own,
came to church, and expressed their assent
to the more penitential prayers by an
audible sigh and an occasional groan.
They said of Felix that he was a gracious

young man, and knew how to hit hard;
which two qualities they considered to be
strictly harmonious.

But his own people gave him a good word
as well. He had inherited this service from
his predecessor, and finding it at a convenient
hour and popular, kept it up with
loyal and dutiful care. They said of him
that "he had no pride; lie didn't mind
shouting for a poor man. Preached just
as loud and just as long, he did, in bad
weather, when he had nobbut a few old
creature and poor Simon Graves the cripple
for congregation, as when the most chiefs
draper and his lady walked over from the
town to attend, as well as Mr. Pritchard
the retired druggist, that kept his own gig,
and was said to be worth some thousands of
pounds."

It is hardly needful to record that Felix
did not find the singing ridiculous. It was
far from perfect praise, but he supposed it

must be more acceptable than city music
led by an organ, and sung by a paid choir.

There is something very pathetic in the
worship of the poor and rustic. They often
think they oblige the clergyman by coming
to church. And the old have a touching
humbleness about them ; they feel a sincere
sense of how worthless they are in this
world, which they could hardly have
attained unless the young had helped them
to it. The rich mix the world with their
prayers; so do the poor  thus : they feel that
they come and say them with their betters.

So this was a Thursday evening. Felix
felt the solemn sweetness of the hour. It
was a clear, hot time of year, and all the
doors and windows were open. He had an
unusually large congregation, and had just
mounted into the pulpit and given out his
text, when, to the astonishment of the
people, instead of beginning to preach, he
stood bolt upright for an instant ; then his

-eyes, as it seemed involuntarily, fell on
Mrs. Snaith (who sat just facing him),
with a look of such significance, that she
instantly started up and rushed out at the
chancel door.

She thought of the little girls, naturally ;
what had she in life but them ?

The amazed congregation gaped at him.
He turned to the schoolmistress, and saying,
"Keep all those children in their places,"
closed his Bible and exclaimed to the
people generally, " My friends, remember
that there are fire-buckets under the tower,
and that the nearest water is in my pond.
Mrs. Snaith 's cottage is on fire."

The red light from it was already flaring
high, and making pink the whitewashed
walls and his gown. It had passed for a
sunset flush, till from his height he saw
what it meant ; and saw the two little
girls running hand in hand down the dusty
lane, with loose hair flying. They were

making their way, clad only in their white
night-gowns, towards the church, for there
the doubtless knew that Mamsey was.

Thanks to the way in which he had
arranged his sentence, the mass of the
people, as they rushed out of church, ran
round to the tower, and when he himself
descended, he met the two little girls, neither
hurt nor frightened, running up to the door.
Each had a great doll  her best doll  under
one arm; but when they saw him, with
childish modesty they sat down on a grassy
grave, and tucked their little feet into their
gowns. It was such a very hot night, that
there was no risk of their taking harm
from their evening excursion. Not that anyone
thought of that, or thought much about
them, excepting Felix, who, fearing that
Mrs. Snaith might not have seen them, and
might risk her life for their sake, followed
on after her at the top of his speed, leaving
them behind with his aunt Sarah.

Yes ! " exclaimed Sarah, when describing
the scene afterwards to Arnias.
There are occasions when decorum and
dignity are forgotten. If you had seen
what Felix looked like, rushing down the
lane with his surplice flying ! An exaggerated
owl suggested itself, or a ghost
pursued by its creditors. These are the
things that give Dissenters such a hold
when they cry out for Disestablishment.
However, by the time he overtook the
clerk, he had got it off; he flung it over
the old man's arm, who folded it up, and
laid it on the grass under a fir tree."

Felix on this occasion found little scope
for the exercise of courage, and no opportunity
of giving aid. The dry thatch was
sending out an even breadth of flame to
the very middle of the road ; there was (ashe
supposed) no approaching. There was
great shouting ; men as well as women were
eagerly handing on fire-buckets, while he

Sarah DE BEEENGEE.

searched the crowd for Mrs. Snaith, and
was told, to his amazement, that she was
inside the blazing premises. He had
scarcely heard it when she emerged from
them, with a box under her arm. He and
Mr. Bolton advanced to help her forward.
Her gown was smoking, and some buckets
of water were thrown all over them without
ceremony, as their bearers, running up
with them from the pond, saw the state
of the case. Mr. Bolton, dripping as he
was, could not forbear to moralize. " Now,
didn't I tell you, ma'am, 'twas too late?
Your things were all alight. This is one
of the occasions when folks may be glad
their goods ain't worth much, 'stead of
risking their precious lives to save them.
Sit down, there's a good creature," he continued,
as he and Felix conducted her to
a grassy bank.

Mrs. Snaith put a small box into the
hands of Felix, then sat down and wiped
her face.

Your gown's no better than tinder,"
continued Mr. Bolton, taking a mean advantage
of her inability to answer. " Choked
almost, I can see. And you've got me a
good suit of clothes spoilt very near, and
the water, that's black as ink, running over
me and Mr. de Berenger, and right into
our shoes, just because you must needs
save your Sunday bonnet. There's nothing
better in that box, I'll be bound. And I
did tell you your Windsor chairs were safe
outside, before even we got out of church,,
and your eight-day clock, and your best
fender and fire-irons." Here he gave himself
a shake, and a pool of water enlarged
itself at his feet.

Let her alone," said Felix, compassionately.
" She thought the children were
inside."

No, sir," said Mrs. Snaith, recovering
her voice, " I didn't."

Having thus dissipated his sympathy,

she got back her box from him, and he
also felt for the first time how wet he was.
He, too, felt inclined to moralize.

A good many buckets of water had by
this time been flung at the fire, but it
seemed to send all out in steam again, and
before ever a straw of the thatch was wet,
and just as the sunset flush faded, all that
had once been a habitation had gone up
or gone down. It was not. A thick black
cloud of pungent smoke brooded still among
the trees, and a soft wet heap of ashes
was lying in the garden. The shouting
and excitement were over. It had been a
very old cottage, and built of wood and
plaster ; dry weather had made the thatch
ready for a spark, which had come from
the chimney. "Well, it had been a strange
thing to see how fast it had melted down,
or with what a rage of haste the flame
and smoke of it had ascended ; but, after all,
the people considered it had not been what

any one could call a tragical sight : nobody
was injured, and there was hardly any
property in it worth mentioning.

Felix was a little hoarse the next morning,
after his wetting, when Mrs. Snaith
knocked at his study door, and asked if she
might speak with him.

She and her children had slept at the
rectory ; her eight-day clock had been
accommodated in the kitchen, and was
diligently ticking and striking against the
clock of the house. Her Windsor chairs,
also her fender and fire-irons, some bedding,
and a few toys, were disposed about a large
empty room. No need to apologize for their
presence in it ; they made it look more
habitable.

These things had been saved by the first
man who discovered the fire, and who
had carried the two little girls downstairs
before he gave the alarm.

Mrs. Snaith, over and above a sort of

contrition for the trouble her goods had
caused in their burning  or saving, as the
case might be  was much vexed at the
drenching Mr, de Berenger had got, and
the cold it had evidently given him.

Felix had fortunately been only arrayed
at the time in a rusty old camlet cassock ;
it was still in course of being slowly dried
at the kitchen fire. JollifTe said it could
take no damage ; it was past that. This
was a secret source of comfort to Mrs.
Snaith. But she longed to explain matters,
and she wanted to know what had been
done with her box. As Felix opened the
door to let her enter, she felt a certain
hint of disapproval in his voice, hoarse
though it was.

"If you please, sir," she began, " might
I see if the things in my box are safe ? "

Oh, your box," he answered, looking
about him. " What did I do with it?
There it is  just inside the fender. You

risked a great deal for that box, Mrs.
Snaith."

He was sitting now at Ills writing table,
and, pointing with his pen at the scorched
and smoky article, was surprised to seethe
eagerness with which she darted upon
it, as she replied, "Well, yes, sir; but
what else could I do ? If I'd lost that, I
should never have forgave myself. I didn't
ought to have kept it in the copper, but
I thought it was a safe place, too."

She set it on the table before him.

This is a sort of thing that people
call a bandbox, is it not?" he inquired,
You surely kept nothing valuable in it ? "

Yes, sir, I did. I thought, in case of
thieves, they would never think of looking
in a bandbox for what I'd got. It's full
of papers and things, sir. All I have for
maintaining the children, and schooling
them, and that."

Felix was struck with astonishment

VOL. I. X

when she opened it, and began to lay its
contents before him.

"Why, this is property," he exclaimed,
taking up a paper. " This is a United
States bond, payable to bearer. If this
had been burnt, the money it brings in
would have been lost, forfeited, and, as
far as I know, irreclaimable."

Yes, I know, sir. I was fully warned."

By whom ? "

Mrs. Snaith was not to be caught; she
made an evident pause here, choosing her
words.

" By him that gave them over to me,
sir. He advised me to turn them into
another kind of property so soon as I
could. But I never could exactly make
out how. And I was afraid it might be
found out."

She stopped and coloured, as if vexed
with herself, when she had said these last
words. He made as if he had not heard

them ; and she had such trust in him, and
in his gentle manhood, that, observing this,
she felt safe again, as if she had not made
that little slip of the tongue.

Where is the list ? You have a list of
the papers, of course," continued Felix ; and
he had scarcely any doubt that he should be
shown his cousin John de Berenger's handwriting.


I have no list, sir."

Felix, full of surprise, paused again. He
had set a chair for her opposite to himself,
and as she took out paper after paper, and
handed them to him across the narrow
table, he received each and scanned it with
curiosity and interest.

Would you like me to make a list for
you?" he said at last.

I should be much obliged to you, sir.
Most of them have numbers  I've noticed
that; and I have some of the numbers in
my memory."

"Do I understand that no list, even of
the numbers, was given you? "

No, sir," she replied, as if apologizing
for the donor. "It were rather a hasty
thing, and a legal document cost money."

A legal document ! Well, Mrs. Snaith "
here he paused; he would not mention
a name, she having so carefully and
pointedly refrained from doing so  "well,
Mrs. Snaith, he showed great confidence
in you that gave these papers over to your
charge."

"He hadn't any choice, sir," she put
in, hut rather faintly. (" I'll be bound he
hadn't ! " thought Felix.) And she continued
her sentence, " And it was no more
than my due to have them."

Still, as I said, it was a great mark of
confidence," continued Felix, " and far be
it from me to show less. But I may say,
and I do, that it was a strange act of
imprudence in you to keep this property

by you in such a form, specially though
(as you admit) you were expressly warned
not to do so. Since you lived here you
have, as I remember, taken a journey several
times. Did you carry this box with you? "

Yes, sir; I went to get what they call
the dividends paid. I fared to think I
ought not to trouble you about this, but
now you have come to know "

"Well, Mrs. Snaith?"

"Perhaps you wouldn't mind the trouble
of letting me understand how to turn them
into something safer  invest them over
again. You see, sir, if I were to die, it
would be very awkward."

Very, indeed," said Felix, gravely; "because,
for anything that appears to the contrary,
this property is absolutely yours ; so
that, if you died, not a shilling of it could
be claimed for the children. I say," he continued,
seeing her look amazed, "that the
two children, being no relation to you, could

not, in case of your death, claim to possess
what is only payable to Hannah Snaith.
Your own relations might claim it, you see,,
and the children would actually be cut
out."

Mrs. Snaith, on hearing this, turned extremely
pale. She saw that she herself
was, in case she died, so acting as to cut
her children out of the money which she
only cared to have for their sake. What
had she not sacrificed already for them ?
How should she learn to do anything more ?

"But surely there is a will? " continued
Felix, the strangeness of John's supposed
conduct growing on him. " No doubt,
though you may not be aware of it, some
other person, some other guardian, must
have been appointed to meet such a case."

Mrs. Snaith, still very pale, was silent.
If she had only said so much as " I do not
know," he would have been better satisfied.

"I take for granted that the person,

whoever he was, that made over this property
to you j did so in fall confidence that
it would he faithfully spent on and for
these children."

To this appeal she still made no reply.
She had for some time seen no cause to
fear that her wretched husband would ever
find her ; she had left behind her, at present
divided among her own relations, so much
of the income as she felt it her duty tolet
him take, and she meant the children
to inherit the remainder. "I may die any
day," was the thought now pressing on her,
and so sure as I die, they would advertise
for my relations, let them have it, and,
unless they found out the truth, which
would be still worse, my clears would be
left penniless."

Sir," she said at last, "if it please the
Lord, I hope I shall live to see my  dear 
3 r young ladies grow up."

The slight, the undefinable air of disapproval,

daunted her. She was so much
puzzled, so much agitated by the perception
of how nearly she had lost everything, and
by his remark as to the children not being-related
to her, that she had no intelligence
at liberty for noticing that disapproval was
an odd sensation for a man to exhibit concerning
a matter that was no affair of his.
Still less did she think of Sir Samuel's
former notion, as perhaps shared by Felix.
She never doubted that the old man had
received a letter from his son, which had
set the matter at rest. She often thought
he had gone away because he was proudly
angry that he ever should have been so
deceived, and should have demeaned himself
to come and question her.

There was Sarah, to be sure  the children
were still allowed to call her Coz  but Sarah
was so inconsequent, so wrong-headed, that
she and her doings hardly seemed to count .

I have been very foolish, I own, sir,"

she said at last, in a tone of apology, for, as
lias just been explained, the reason of his
disapproval was hidden from her. " What
do you think it would he best for me todo
now? "

I am not a very good man of business,"
Felix answered, " but I think this property
could not be invested in the names of the
two children  only by guardians or trustees,
for their benefit." Then he paused to think.
"I am the more likely to be right in this
notion, because it has not been done already ;
but I can easily ascertain. If you consent to
its being invested for them," he continued,
I will agree to be one of the guardians,
you being the other."

Amazing kindness ! remarkable condescension
! Mrs. Snaith could not hear it
and keep her seat. She rose and curtsied.
Sir, you are very kind; I am deeply
obliged to you," she answered, very highly
flattered, and also very much flustered. " I

never could have hoped for such goodness ;.
but it's just like you, sir."

Why was it " like" in Mrs. Snaith's opinion?
Because Felix stood godfather to half the
children baptized in his parish ; because he
let himself be called, at all untimely hours,
to comfort the sick ; because he had housed
her goods, and helped to carry them in asa
matter of course ; because she had more
than once seen him carry the market basket
of a poor rheumatic old woman, and lend
her the aid of his arm as well to help her
home  these were some of the reasons
why it was "like him" to propose being
guardian to her little treasures.

Felix looked up when, again seating herself,
she pushed the papers toward him, as
if giving them over to his charge for good
and all.

The shadow of a smile crossed his face.
He did not see that it was so very kind;
but the tinge of disapproval vanished.

You consent, then ? "

"Yes, sir, I consent, and thank you
kindly ; but I am that circumstanced, as I
can only say I consent unless lie should
interfere that may be able to interfere."

"Now, what does she mean by that?"
thought Felix, still strong in the notion that
he was to be guardian to John de Berenger's-
children. " Can she mean old Sam ? I
suppose she does."

But though his face was full of cogitation,
the sunshine of approval had come back toit
 he was even feeling that he had wronged
her ; and when she asked if he would lock the
papers up in some safe place, and do as he
pleased about investments, he felt suddenly
that he did not want such perfect liberty as.
that. "I shall do nothing without consulting
a lawyer," he said, " and you will be
so good as to take care of the list I have
made."

"Hadn't you better keep it, sir?" she

answered, in her simplicity; "it would save
you the trouble of making another."

"No, Mrs. Snaith," he answered, and
laughed and held out his hand, as he generally
did to his parishioners. So she shook
hands with him and left the room, feeling
as if she should like to serve him all her
days.

When she had retired, Felix again looked
over the papers. " All made payable to
bearer  that bearer, Hannah Snaith." Now,
if John de Berenger had made that money
over to her during his lifetime, it must have
been to protect it, so that it could not be
recognized as his, and claimed by his creditors.
He must have trusted her ; and she
had proved worthy of his trust as regarded
her honesty. As regarded her prudence 
no !

Felix leaned his chin on one hand, and
turning over those papers with the other,
began to puzzle himself with a problem

which he stated wrongly, and which, consequently,
could have no right answer.

The problem was this.

"As John de Berenger had died deeply
in debt, could this money (invested in the
name of Hannah Snaith) he considered in
fairness to belong to his children; was it
not the property of his creditors ? Had he
not proved, by the course he had taken, in
order to conceal or protect it from them,
that it was in justice theirs ?

That depends,' ' Felix presently thought,
on how John got the money. Wait a minute.
This woman, Hannah Snaith, has repeatedly
declared that she knew nothing about John.
After all, why may not this be true ? Why
may not the money have come through his
wife, whoever she was ?

No, that won't do. ' By him that made
them over to me,' she said. Well, why
should it not have been the wife's father ?

Let me think this out. If John did

marry, as I suppose is certain (at least, one
of the few things Hannah Snaith has positively
declared is that these children were
born in wedlock, and that she could easily
prove it if necessary)  as he did marry, I will
therefore say he must be supposed to have
married that poor, pretty young creature,
the Baptist minister's daughter, whom he
harped upon to me for years, fell in love
with when she was only fifteen, as he saw
her passing to and from school  Fanny
Tindal (neither child is called Fanny, by-the-by).
Well, let us say that after her
father moved away to somewhere in Lincolnshire,
I think it was, John went and
married Fanny Tindal. I know she died
some time ago. Suppose her father, a vulgar
old fellow, but not particularly poor, that
I am aware of, saved, or at any rate died
possessed of, what I now see before me  I
am sure I have heard that he too is dead 
of course his care would be to prevent John

from ever touching his money; but if he
died before his daughter, he may have feared
lest somehow it might be got hold of by the
creditors, and may have chosen to trust it
to a person whom he knew, and no relation,
in the faith of her honesty. Her being more
of his class in life than of John's, is much in
favour of the theory. And this is in favour
of it too, that by all I know of her  and
I know her now pretty well  I seem to be
assured that she is not a person who would
lend herself to any scheme that she knew to
be dishonest."

Felix de Berenger, having thus stated his
problem, thought the better of himself for
finding an answer to it so convincing and so
complete.

I wonder I never thought of this before,"
he observed, as with a satisfied air he
locked up Hannah Snaith's papers. " Poor
little waifs ! Yes, I see it all."

An uncomfortable reflection sometimes

presses on us, to trie effect that the world is
full of people who think they have an answer
to most of the problems of life, or at least
to such as more especially concern their own
lives. Who think so  but we are sure they
are mistaken. And is it not possible just
possible  though to the last degree improbable,
that we, we ourselves, may be ? No,
that flash of intelligence crossing the shady
chambers of thought is soon put out; of
such reflections the human mind is always
impatient.

Yet a great many of us know no more of
the answers to such problems as lie close
about us, and most concern us, than did the
Reverend Felix de Berenger in this recorded
instance, and nevertheless we, perhaps, ashe
did, bring a great deal of good out of the
mistaken circumstances.

Chapter II.

Now, Amias always comforted himseK with
a flattering conviction that he was no prig.

He would not touch strong drink, because
he knew that the abuse of it made his
countrymen wicked and poor, and he had
thrown up his prospects, and made no use
of opportunities to have them back.

He abstained, not that he was quite sure,
but that he supposed, every instance of
abstinence was likely to do good. He had
thrown up his prospects on the spur of the
moment, and almost before he had fully
made up his own mind.

His conscience had, as it were, tricked

him into action ; it was afterwards that,
revolving the matter, his reason approved.

It is a fearful thing for a Jonng man to
he thought a prig  almost as bad, so to
speak, as being suspected of burglary. The
companions of Amias were so kind as to
admit that he certainly was no prig. What,
then, is a prig ? They did not exactly know,
or at any rate they could not in so many
words have characterized what here, in default
of a better, receives this definition.

A prig is one who makes, and prides himself
on making, such confident and high
profession of his opinions, whatever these
may be, that though he should act upon
them never so consistently, his words will,
notwithstanding, tower above and seem to
dwarf his actions.

If this definition is a fair one, then Amias
was the perfect contrary, the fine reverse of
a prig.

With little more than an instinct towards

the right, aucl on the first admonishing of
conscience, he had phmged into action ;
much as a man will plunge into a river to
save some drowning person. When this
last has been safely brought to the brink,
his bold deliverer, with a quart at least of
cold water in his own stomach, may reflect
that the stream was stronger than he had
supposed, the water deeper, that he is not a
first-rate swimmer himself. What if they
had both gone down together ?

But when his sister sajs to him, "Tom,"
or ' Dick," as the case may be, "you were
rash, you might have been drowned," he
has ah-lady had time to think the matter
out, and justify the action by the result.

Nonsense, my dear," he answers. " I
am all right. I am glad I did it. I would
do it again ! "

And he would do it again. He knows
enough of himself now to be sure that he
certainly should do it again. Does ho

therefore, to keep himself out of danger,
eschew the banks of the river. No, but in
more perfect and accomplished style, he
learns to swim.

There is nothing like action to show a
man what he really is. It may have been
hidden from this very young fellow's eyes
that he cared enough for his own brother,
the one he liked best, to risk his life for
him. Till the decisive moment came he
had not perhaps the remotest suspicion that
he cared for human life in the abstract ;
and here he stands dripping, having risked
his own to save that of an absolute stranger.
For the future he knows all. He perceives
the awful and mysterious oneness of humanity,
how it draws the units to the
whole. He is not independent, as he may
have thought ; he is a part of all.

This is why a man who has saved life
hardly ever boasts of it, or prides himself on
it. Such, particularly the uneducated, will

not unfrequently try to slink away, going
silently, as if some knowledge or feeling had
come to them that was not perfectly welcome.


On the Sunday after the fire a remarkable
circumstance occurred. Sir Samuel de
Berenger invited Amias to dinner. Sir
Samuel had only returned to his country
place a few days previously. He went to
church in all state, as he commonly did on
a Sunday morning, and behold, there was
Amias in the rectory pew. He was growing
up to be a fine young fellow, taller than
Felix, well made, and brown. He was
looking about him as if he was pleased to beat
home again, and not in the least conscious
that he had made a fool of himself.
Perhaps he hadn't, but it cannot be expected
that his uncle or the congregation
generally would think so.

Sir Samuel looked at him several times ;
quite naturally, and as if it could not be

VOL. II. * D

helped, their eyes met. ' Young dog,"
thought the old man, not at all displeased ;
'how perfectly he carries it off! You
would have me think you don't care, would
you ! "

Amias, of course, could not know how
many hundreds of times the old great-uncle
had wished him back again. John was
dead, Tom was gone ; but that was not all.
The old fellow constantly told himself, how
the longer he lived the more his conscience
became enlightened, and the more he suffered
from the perversity of his father's descendants,
who would not let him be just
and generous to them. All that he meant,
however, to do at present, was to make a
clerk of Amias, and give him a salary; in
fact, to condone the past.

He was always wishing to have him back
again, and if Amias had known from the
beginning that such was the case, it might
have had a great effect upon him. That

he did not know appears, therefore, to
be a good thing or a bad thing according
to the judgment one may form of his conduct.


In the porch, after service, old Sam
greeted his niece Sarah and the two little
girls. He then spoke to Amias, who was
behind, and, with a cordiality the more
pleasant because it was unexpected, invited
him to dinner.

Amias accepted. He was pleased that
old Sam should thus make overtures of
peace. His pride was flattered, for though
he took special care not to seem aware that
he was reckoned a foolish, wrong-headed
young fellow, he felt it. When the wind
blows strongly in one's face, it is difficult
not to put down one's head.

Amias told no one in the house excepting
FeHx, who instantly said, *why didn't he
ask me too ? "

'rit was rude of him," answered Amias,

"and queer; I was just now thinking so.
If you like I'll send and decline."

Felix paused. It was no ridiculous feeling
that he himself had been neglected
which had led to the sudden exclamation,

"He's a mean old boy," said Amias,
disrespectfully. " I hear he pays the fellow
he got in my place even less than he
paid me."

That alone would be enough to decide
him against what I suspected," thought
Felix. "How absurd I am!  You had
much better go," he said aloud. "Only
keep clear of the matter you quarrelled
about. It does not become you to dispute
with such an old man, and at his own
table."

"Oh!" said Amias, "you don't think I
shall have a chance, do you? Most likely
he has a dinner-party, and wants me to
make the table even."

When Amias arrived, however, he found

himself the only guest, and felt that he
could have enjoyed his dinner more if his
dress-coat had not been so exceedingly
tight ; in fact, he had not worn it for a year.
And, having been accustomed for that period
to take his chop alone in his dingy lodgings,
he was at first uncomfortably conscious of
the footmen's eyes, their stealthy movements,
and constant assiduities.

He had just been making a firm resolution
that he would go out to dinner no
more till he could afford a new dress-coat,
when the last servant withdrew, after the
meal, as quietly as a cat, and shut the door
behind him. Then Amias began to perceive,
as by a kind of instinct, that his old uncle
had been waiting for this occurrence ; that
he had something to say, and was now about
to speak.

So far as appeared, Amias was rather
young for his years  as a rule, thoughtless.
He still had a boy's delight in mischief. He

did not love work ; a boat race would rouse
him to a ridiculous pitch of enthusiasm; a
cricket match was far more important thana
Government defeat, or anything of that
sort. As he now sat waiting, he again felt
how tight his coat was, took up a particularly
fine strawberry, and while cogitating
with discomfort as to what could be coming,
appeared to gaze at it with interest, and
almost with curiosity.

* Amias," said Sir Samuel, with a serious
and slightly pompous air, your brother
Felix has, of course, been made aware of
my invitation ?"

Oh yes, uncle," answered Amias, diligently
eating his strawberries.

'' What remark did he make upon it ? "

Amias, taken by surprise, looked up. It
seemed out of the question to repeat the
remark in question, and, of course, he had
not forgotten it.

* What remark did he make upon it ? "

repeated the old man. He saw that Amias
looked a little confused.

* It was nothing particular that he said,
uncle," replied Amias, in a blundering
fashion.  I couldn't exactly repeat it to

you."

'why not?" asked Sir Samuel. He
himseK was not so much at his ease as
usual. He never doubted that Felix had
expressed pleasure at this move towards a
reconciliation. Perhaps he had told his
young brother he must make some sort of
apology for the past. If Amias shirked the
repetition of such a speech (and what other
could FeUx have made ?), Sir Samuel did
not see how he could continue the conversation.
He looked hard at Amias, with
an air of reproof and admonition ; whereupon
a slight tinge of red showed itself
through the healthy brown of the cheek,
and Amias blurted out 

What Felix said was, ' Why didn't he
ask me too ? ' "

"Very natural, nephew parson," thought
the old man. "You see what I am about,
and would like, if I take the boy back, to
tie me down as regards the future; but
I think I'll manage it myself, nephew
parson, if you have no objection.  You
would like to come back again into the
country, I dare say, Amias, among your
own people, and that sort of thing?" he
continued aloud.

Yes, I should, uncle, of course ; I hate
London."

"I take for granted that you regret the
foolish escapade which  which led to your
being sent away."

Amias looked up. The manner was rather
kind ; but he thought, " This is mean of the
old boy ; he is going to give me a wigging
at his own table ; " and instead of making
a set answer to Sir Samuel's suggestion, he
followed his own thoughts to a point where
they became urgent for utterance, and then

blurted out, ''If I hadn't told you myseK
what I'd done, nobody else would have told
you. You might never have found it out
to this day."

"Quite true," answered the old uncle,
still more graciously and pompously. " I
have thought the better of you ever since
for that proper straightforwardness. I have
frequently said, when people have remarked
to me on your folly, ' But there was much
that was gentlemanlike in my nephew's
behaviour. I am not altogether displeased
with him.' I say again, Amias, would you
like to come back ?"

Back here ? " exclaimed Amias, at last
understanding him  " back to the concern .
back to you ? " And his air of astonishment
threw Sir Samuel off his guard.

Yes, back here. Why not, if I am
content to forget the past, and you are
anxious to retrieve it ? "

You couldn't have a fellow back who

is a teetotaler  a fellow that would stand
on the beer barrels and preach at the people
not to buy the stuff ! "

 You stand on the beer barrels ! You
preach at people!" exclaimed Sir Samuel,
so astonished at the grotesque picture that
he could not be very angry  yet. ' Do you
mean to tell me that you are so lost to all
sense of what befits your age, and your rankin
life, and your future respectability, that
you can stand on a beer barrel and rant like
a demagogue ? "

Amias, in spite of himself, for he was very
nervous, burst into a short laugh. You
are very kind, uncle," he answered; "and
well, I never expected it. No, I never
lectured yet, excepting that once. But I
should if I came here. I am sure I could
not help it ! I am a great deal worse than
I used to be ; for now I wish all the gin-palaces
were blown up, and I should be
glad if half the beer barrels were kicked

into the sea. When I went away, uncle,
I felt as if it was extremely hard that I
should be obliged to think about strong
drink in such a way as to ruin my prospects
; but now  I  I don't care. There
must be some fellows to think the inconvenient
things and do them ; in fact, if
there were not, the world would never get
better. But I did not suppose you could
be so kind and forgiving. I am very much
obliged to you."

At the commencement of this speech
Sir Samuel felt such rage and amazement
that he was speechless. As Amias went on,
much more slowly, and taking more thought,
a sudden revulsion, caused by what seemed
the strangeness of his words, made the old
man shiver. All was useless. Why had he
thus demeaned himself? His money was
nothing, his kindness was set at nought ;
he was mastered by a mere youth, who had
not a shilling. But when with boyish simplicity,

and a sort of whimsical pathos,
Amias went on to say how he had at first
considered it hard that he should be obliged
so to think as to ruin his prospects, and when
he added, 'But now I don't care," then
Sir Samuel, worldly and shallow though
he might be, believed that he was hearing
of somewhat to be feared, and not gainsaid ;
something not of this world, though familiar
to the Christian creed. It had asserted
itself and been obeyed. It was very inconvenient,
but it was always to have its way,
and Amias did not seem to recognize it byname,
or know what its strivings meant.

Rather a long pause followed. Sir Samuel
poured himself out a glass of claret, and
sipped it slowly. Amias having no wine
to occupy him, and no fruit on his plate,
looked hard out of the window into the
lovely, peaceful park, and towards a wood.
Little more than a year ago, he had robbed
several feathered mothers there. He

"wished it was spring ; and oh, how he
wished this dinner was over ! Oh that
Felix had indeed been invited to it also,
for then he should not have had to tell him
of it afterwards. And why did not old
Sam speak ? Was he so stumped with astonishment,
that he disdained to say a word
more ?

Amias would have been much surprised
if he could have read his old uncle's
thoughts just then, and how, not without
a certain reverence, he revolved in his mind
a familiar sentence which begins, 'lest
haply "

He was rapidly calming. The matter had
settled itseK. He must find out some other
way to benefit that family. Amias would
be of no use to him as he was, and he
would not take the responsibility of trying
to change him.

When he did speak, it was so kindly that
the words gave Amias a click in his throat.

that made him miserably uncomfortable.
He resented that too  would have liked a
** wigging" better. Sir Samuel observed
that he was in low spirits, and got more
and more dull as the evening went on.

'i'd better go," he said, as the darkness
came on, if you'll excuse me, uncle. I've
got to tell Felix."

 Felix will be vexed ? " asked Sir
Samuel, quite in a friendly tone.

*' Yes," said Amias, gloomily ; ' of
course."

Then the old man acted in a way to
surprise his nephew and himself. He remarked
to Amias, that about a year and a
half ago he had promised to give him a nag.
Amias remembered the promise, and how
he had felt that the beast had received this
somewhat disparaging name that no very-high
expectations might be formed as to
his merits. 'I shall give you the money
instead," quoth the old uncle; and preceding

Amias into the lighted Library, he
actually sat down to his writing-table, and
then and there wrote a cheque for the sum
of acts 10s.  Just such a nag as I meant
to give you was sold out of my stable a
week ago for that sum," he said. ' There,
Amias, you will understand that any displeasure
I may have felt against you has
ceased."

Amias accepted the cheque humbly. It
was so unexpected, under the circumstances,
and so unlike the donor to give it, that he
felt as if he had been put in the wrong
utterly. He seemed to have made himself
ridiculous and to be forgiven. He had
thrown away his prospects now twice, and yet
he had to feel like a sneak ; he could not doit
with a high hand. What amount of fun
there might have been in the future must
now be thrown after those prospects, and
lost as they were, for of course he could
never come and oppose old Sam in the town

or in his own neighbourhood now. No.
And yet lie did not even ivisli that his
peculiar notions had never made a lodgment
in his breast. Some fellows must have
inconvenient thoughts ; so it was, and so it
would be.

The old man and the young took leave of
one another. Amias went off toward home,
telling himself what a lucky dog he was to
have thirty-eight pounds ten shillings in his
pockets, keeping up a smart run, and every
now and then raising a boyish whoop or
shout. He scarcely allowed to himself that
he wanted to keep up his spirits, and was defying
himself and fate ; but when he left the
open carriage drive, which was white and
clear in the moonlight, and had to find and
slowly feel his way under the trees in the
solemn darkness of the summer night, he
began to feel that ominous click in his
throat again. One or two whoops meant to
be hilarious came out in feeble and wavering

style, and when at last he emerged from the
wood and saw lying in its shadow the great
fallen trunk of a tree lately felled, he was
fain to throw himself upon it and cry out,
* I know the old man will think this hard."
He meant his brother Felix, and having so
said, he dropped his face in his hands and
sobbed for about two minutes as if his heart
would break.

Moaning, and yet enraged, and deeply
ashamed of himself  " To think that at my
age I should demean myself to howl ! "  he
dried his eyes. Something moved before
him, and, startled, he sprang to his feet. A
man stood just beyond the shadow, covered
with moonlight  Felix.
'' Oh, it's you, old fellow."
** Yes. Don't knock me down."
*how did you know I was here ? " exclaimed
Amias, choking down the leavings
of his chest with a mighty sob.

 I was coming to meet you, and saw you

VOL. II. E

go into the wood. I shall think it hard,
shall I?"

' Felix, you know I like you better than
any one in the world  far better."

 Yes ; but what shall I think hard ? Has
old Sam been proposing to you to come
back ? I thought he would."

*' Did you, Felix ? " said Amias, ruefully.


 If you accepted, I shall think it hard."

Amias immediately sprang at him, and
hugged him.

' How could you think otherwise, you
young scamp ? " said Felix, when he was
released.

It's all right, then," exclaimed Amias,
immensely relieved. The last remainder of
the storm rolled off with a final heaving
of the chest. '' I was miserable because I
thought you would be so vexed. If I'd only
known," he added, with deep disgust against
himself, " I wouldn't have made such a muff

of myself. You'll  of course you will never
mention it ? "

Certainly not," said Felix, affectionately.

Owls were hooting all round them ; the
valley was full of mysterious shadows and
confusing shafts of moonlight ; little hollows
had ghostly white mists Ijing in them.
Presently a large white creature, with eyes
like a cat's, skimmed past them close to
the grass, silent as a dream ; a fluffy bunch
of down, her newly fledged young one, after
her. They disappeared in the wood. Amias,
with a great whoop, gave chase, and Felix
shouting after him with all his might to
remember the pond, and keep well up the
side of the hollow, the whole place seemed
to wake up and fill itself with echoes, as
if twenty De Berengers instead of two were
in it, and were throwing their voices at one
another.

When echo repeats a man's voice, she
always gives it with a difference. Felix





could have declared it was his dead father
crjdng out to Amias to beware of the water,
and John de Berenger, who was lying in
the Ceylon forest, that answered with fainter
repetitions, *' It's all right  all right  all
right'

Chapter III.

Felix, intending to take new inmates, and
finding that it was just a year since he had
received the last, went over his accounts
during the hours that Amias spent with Sir
Samuel, and found, to his pleasure, that,
having paid all his bills, he was actually the
possessor of twenty pounds.

When, therefore, Amias emerged from
the wood without having been able to capture
the wisp of flying flue, the brothers,
while they sauntered home, compared notes,
and felt as if their worst days of restriction
and poverty were over. Amias could get
his watch out of pawn, and have new clothes.
Felix could come up and spend a parson's

week in London, find out how Amias was
really lodged, and how he fared ; also could
enjoy himself after the peculiar fashion of
zealous and painstaking young clergymen.
* Always supposing that he keeps the
money," thought Felix. He is so full
of scruples already that I shall suggest no
fresh ones to his conscience; but if he
doesn't see his inconsistency here very soon,
I am much mistaken."

Amias exulted as he walked ; and visions
of lingering over bo ok stalls, and picking up
old divinity very cheap, of attending many
services, going to hear all manner of sermons,
and sitting for hours and hours
at religious meetings, flitted through the
brain of Felix. What a pleasure it is to
think that somebody here and there enjoys
such meetings, and gets hints from
them !

The brothers separated for the night in
good spirits, and the next day FeHx spent

some hours in digging, while Amias, with
a spud in his hand, sauntered about, enjoyed
the country air, and chopped at
dent-de-lions and thistle-roots in the slightly
disordered lawn.

Felix did most of the digging and raking,
the real hard work that had to be done
in the garden. He was extremely fond of
that kind of exercise, but he would not
weed or attend to the flowers ; there he
drew the line. He had one very large plot
a good way from the house, containing
about two rods of ground, in which he
seldom planted anything, and which he,
notwithstanding, dug over at least once
a month. Sometimes, lost in thought, he
would pause and pensively hang over the
spade ; then, with a certain fervour of
industry, he would dig on with perfect
enthusiasm, and slap the squares of mould
as he threw each into its place, as if he
lived by this work, and his master was

looking at him. This was, in fact, his out-of-door
study. Over this plot he mainly
composed his sermons.

 You're filling my house," he said to his
aunt, when she came to him on Tuesday
afternoon, just as he left off digging  came
to take leave, for, of course, she did goon
Tuesday.

Amias, who had brought out a chair, was
now sitting close at hand, looking somewhat
moody, and at his leisure mending an old
cherry-net.

Yes, it's all settled," answered Sarah,
who continued to feel a good deal surprised
at the success of her plan. " And I've left
an excellent long piece of strong cord
behind. I brought it for the pony, to tether
him with."

Felix looked surprised.

* Because," continued Sarah, *'I have
no doubt now that you will get most of the
washing done at home ; and it will be useful

as a clothes-line. The drying-ground is
cropped short, and all ready."

Oh," said Felix. His ideas on the
subject of a family wash were exceedingly
hazy.

*' Mrs. Snaith is a capital ironed. She
likes nothing better than ironing, and has
told me so," continued Sarah.

*soh," said Felix again; and his aunt,
observing a certain absence of mind, in
fact a kind of helplessness about his air
in the face of these household matters,
suddenly heaved up such a deep sigh as
recalled him to himself, and he cast on hera
glance of surprise.

She sighed again.  For indeed, under
the present sad circumstances  sad indeed !
every yard of cord, and everything else,
may well be said to matter."

" Sad circumstances ? " said Felix, a little
surprised.

Amias smiled furtively.

'' Sad indeed ! Amias so lost to everything
! "

Felix began to dig softly.

sand as for you, Felix, I never would
have believed, if I hadn't seen it, that you
don't seem to care. I feel as if I had never
known till now what you really were."

 There are many people in the world,"
answered Felix, rather dreamily, 'who don't
know what they really are till circumstances
show them."

All this time Amias netted on, and
neither of them took any notice of him.

'rand a very good thing too," she exclaimed,
" for some of us. If the pepper-castor
could know what it really was, it
would always be sneezing its top off."

Some of us ! " repeated Felix, gravely
pleased with this illustration, which seemed
to claim humanity for the pepper-castor.

I only wish Amias had never found
himself out," she persisted, "but had continued

to think he was something quite
different  and to act accordingly," she went
on, after a pause, during which Amias preserved
a discreet silence.

''I consider," observed Felix, 'that
every man has a right to his own conscience,
and the more so as you cannot take
it from him."

'' Felix ! Yes, I know your parishioners,
some of them, believe the most extraordinary
things."

'' And I let them alone. One believes
that Christian people ought not to eat pork,
thinks the Mosaic law perfect wisdom for
all men on sanatory matters, says almost all
foul disease comes of our eating pork. I
thought a great deal of her conscience till
I found she fattened pigs for the eating of
other people."

'' Is that the woman who married an old
man, and after she had escorted him to the
grave, took a mere boy ?"

'' Even so."

*' Well, Felix, I wish you were as tolerant
to the poor publicans as to your parishioners.
What right have you to interfere with the
liberty of the subject ?"

' Not the least. Have I any to interfere
with the slavery of the subject ? "

'That is merely a play of words, Felix.
Not worthy of you as a clergyman, and a
man of sense. Why should not the publican
stand on his rights Hke other people ? "

whether he stands on them or not,"
said Felix, laughing, ** there is no doubt
in my mind that the present generation will
sit upon them 1 "

a There ! you meant that for a joke.
Yes ! the notions of Amias are actually infecting
you."

'* What are his notions ? "

' He is extremely one-sided," replied
Sarah; '' everybody must allow that. While
he is considering how to reform the drunkards

he quite forgets what is to become of the
publicans. Thousands of them as there are
thousands and thousands."

** They are much to be pitied. But still, if
it is the will of Providence, they will have
eventually to go to the wall."

* Providence," said Sarah, not irreverently,
*' must be allowed to do as it pleases.
But I do not and cannot see how you find
out what that pleasure is till it is made
manifest. I cannot see what right you
have to run on in your own thoughts, and
be so sure what Providence is going to do,
and so eager to help before the event. Yes !
I call that patronizing Providence."

 You are vexed, my dear aunt, that
Amias should have, as you consider, thrown
away his prospects again. That is what
this means, is it not ? " said Felix.

** And you are not vexed ? "
"Well, no," said Felix, dispassionately.
Amias must, has the saying is, * have the

courage of this opinions.' I did not put
them first into his head  it is inconvenient
to me that he should hold them so strongly
but I should heartily despise him if he
threw them over to serve his own interests.
And, after all, I suppose that even you have
no doubt that two-thirds of all the misery
and three-fourths of all the crime in the
country really and truly and persistently do
come of strong drink, and from nothing
else."

*0h, very well," exclaimed Sarah, in a
high, plaintive tone; spray fly out against
your own family, if you Hke. Just as if the
politicians did not frequently say that the
country could not pay its way but for the
duties on what you unkindly call strong
drink!"

 Strong drink is not the only thing the
country has to answer for. I hope to seethe
day when we shall take the making of
opium, and the traffic in it, and especially

/

the monopoly of it, to heart; " and thereupon
he turned up the edge of the spade to
his somewhat short-sighted eyes, and, as if
he wished to shirk further discussion, remarked
that it was rather blunt, and began
to dig again.

Sarah heaved up another deep sigh, and
shook her head, but neither of her nephews
said anything ; so, after a few moments, she
exclaimed, with a somewhat theatrical start,
 Well, I do not know, Felix, how much
longer I am expected to look on while you
dig. How many of these useless rods are
there ? "

' Three," said Amias, ' including the one
in pickle that you brought with you, aunt."

It did not suit Sarah to take direct notice
of this speech ; but Amias had lost his advantage
of silence, and was made welcome
to a good deal of advice, and to many comments
on his conduct. 'And so kind as
my dear uncle has been to you, Amias ! "

she continued. '* I know all about it.
Yes."

"It does seem a shame, doesn't it?"
answered Amias ; "but it cannot be helped
I wish it could," he added, hastily. Then,
when Felix looked at him with surprise, and
Sarah with pleasure, he paused in his netting,
and said with deliberation, "No, I
don't ; that was a lie  at least, I forgot myself.
Well, good-bye. Aunt Sarah; you'd
better forgive me, for I shall never be any
different."

Sarah took leave of him, and soon after
this departed, Felix driving her home, and
a chorus of laughter in the kitchen breaking
out as her wheels left the yard, she having
just explained the use that was to be made
of an old hen-coop, which was to be turned
upside down, she said, and play the part
of a clothes-basket, the only one belonging
to the establishment being still up a tree.

Felix had not gone forth to meet the

temperance question, he had only accepted
it when it came to seek him. He found it
in his study when he came home.

Amias was there, so was Sir Samuel de
Berenger, and they both looked so extremely
serious that he was quite startled. " "What
is the matter now ? " he exclaimed.

Sir Samuel looked a little flustered, but
not in the least angry. When he spoke, his
whole manner was decidedly conciliatory.

* The fact is, this young gentlemen met
me in the road, said he had something to
tell me  asked me in here  and now he has
nothing to say."

Amias laughed, but he looked very much
ashamed of himself. ' I am such a fool ! "
he exclaimed ; and he certainly looked very
foolish. "I am such a fool  nobody would
believe it. I can hardly believe it myself."


'* Sit down," said Felix ; ' we both know
what you mean. Out with it."

VOL. II. F

Amias sat down and said humbly, " I beg
your pardon, uncle."

Instead of asking what for, the old man
continued to look pleasant. ' Nonsense ! "
be said.  Say no more, and think better
of it."

' I hope you'll forgive me, and try to forget
tins," said Amias, reddening, and at the
same time pushing a crumpled piece of
paper towards Sir Samuel without looking
at him.

The old man took it up. It had cost him
a pang to give that cheque, and now here
it was in his hands again. His first thought
was one by which he often cajoled himself.
' How extraordinarily difficult it is to do anything
for this family! " His next thought
corrected this. It was not worth while to
keep it; it would make his conscience so
uneasy. The more he did for Amias, the
less weight, he instinctively felt, these temperance
notions of his would have over him.

Besides, Amias was a great favourite. He
would give him another chance.

'You see," said Amias, as if excusing
himself, ' I have no right to cry out against
against anything, and then show myself
ready to accept a benefit from it. It seems
almost as mean as taking a bribe. No, I
did not mean that ; but I'm so blunder-headed
I don't know what I say. I'm sure
you meant nothing of the kind, uncle."

Sir Samuel at that moment knew that
he had meant it, and that he would willingly
offer one far heavier if by its means he
could get rid of these scruples on the part
of Amias ; who, seeing the old man still
looking kindly at him, went on, ' I certainly
did want that money, but I'm not half
as badly off as you think. I've got an old
necklace that Felix thinks I can sell when
I go back to London, so that I hope I shall
get on  and not be any expense to you,
Felix."

'ran old necklace ! " exclaimed the baronet
as if lie failed to understand the value of
such property.

FeHx explained that his mother had left
several articles of jewelry in her dressing-case,
that he had had them valued, and
divided into three shares, one of which was.
for Amias.

*' Sentiment would lead a man to keep
his mother's ornaments," continued FeHx,.
*but the poor cannot afford to indulge
sentiment. Amias must sell his share. He
never saw our mother wear this necklace."

' What is it worth ? " asked Sir Samuel.

''My father bought it in India, and my
aunt Sarah says she remembers hearing
him say that it cost forty pounds."

Then it is fully worth that now in this
country, old jewelry being so fashionable,"
thought Sir Samuel. " Does it matter who
buys it ? " he inquired.

"No," answered Amias, in a dispirited

tone, and without deriving any hope of a
customer from this speech.

*' Well," said Sir Samuel, with real kindness
of manner, and still trifling with the
cheque, ' I'll buy the necklace. I will give
the forty pounds."

Amias sprang up. ' Uncle, you don't
mean it ! "

"Yes, I doit partly out of regard to
Felix, who is likely to have enough on
his hands with you and your scruples,
and partly because, you young dog, your
astonishing impudence amuses me. Nothing
that breathes ever insulted me as join have
done ! " Here he laughed. " But you have
the grace to be heartily ashamed of yourself,
and somehow you make me feel that
you cannot help it. There, fetch the beads."

Amias left the room.

"I suppose tJds transaction will stand? "
he continued, addressing Felix, still looking
more amused than irate.

' I suppose SO," was all Felix answered.

Amias presently returned with a small
red leather case, which he gravely opened
and displayed before the customer  a faded
white satin lining, on which was lying a
delicate necklace of gold filigree work, with
a few emeralds sparkling in its centre.

Then Sir Samuel drew forth his purse
and pushed back the cheque to Amias,
together with a sovereign and ten shillings.

'* Give me a receipt," he said, for his
habitual caution did not leave him ; and he
felt when he took it that he had done a
noble action, for he certainly did not want
the necklace. Also he felt as if he had got
it for one pound ten, for even if it had not
been mentioned, he must have found someway
of benefiting that family, at least to
the extent of his original gift.

A glad satisfaction swelled his heart ashe
put the case in his pocket ; and as for
Amias, he felt that, his whole fortune being

in this hand, lie should certainly be no
expense to Felix for the next two years,
for he could well live on it, together with
his small salary.

When Sir Samuel was gone, Amias looked
furtively at his brother. How would he
take the matter ? What would he say now
they were alone ? As Felix took no notice
of him, but continued for some time to
mend the stumps of some remarkably bad
old quill pens, Amias at last said, in rather
a humble tone, ' You'd better take care of
this, hadn't you, Felix?" He put the
cheque before him, continuing,  The one
pound ten will get my watch out of pawn,
and you might want to use some of this."

Felix put his hand in his pocket for his
keys. '' I shall want nothing of the kind,"
he answered. 'But, just after a fire, I
don't much like taking care of valuable bits
of paper. Suppose we should have another ?
This must be changed into gold as soon

as may be." He unlocked a drawer in Ms
table and hanged. ' Still, if it got burnt,
I suppose the old boy would, if the thing
was fully proved, give you another, or
return the necklace."

Amias was greatly relieved at hearing
him laugh ; he longed to subside into
ordinary talk without any discussion about
his having renounced the present. But he
altered his mind when Felix went on. 'sit's
my belief that Uncle Sam is actually developing
a conscience. It is very young
and feeble at present, and if you had kept
that money much longer, you might thereby
have almost snuffed out its young life."

 And yet you said nothing to me."

' I thought nothing just at first."

' And when you did ? "
  I do not always think that logic is to
be used to force on a waiting soul."

' Then you do not think it would have
been wrong in me to keep the money."

' No ; Lilt it would have been mean  that
is, if he did offer it as a species of bribe 
and it would have been ridiculous, because
it would have been so inconsistent."

*but now, Felix, if we had originally
received our proper share of our grandfather's
money ? Of course we should have
lived on it."

'' No doubt we should."

' Would there have been any harm in
that ? "

You had better say, would there have
been or would there now be any good, if
you had it, in your flinging your share of it
away?"

* Yes, that's what I mean."

' But where would you fling it to ? Not
to beggars, I hope  beggars, in any sense ;
for I for one believe that is to do infinitely
more harm than good."

Almshouses  workhouses ? "

** Almshouses, and even workhouses, are

full of old jDGople whose own children are
guilty before God, and are losing all sense
of those feelings that raise families and hold
them together, because they leave them
there. Every right and natural responsibility
of which you relieve a man, taking
it on yourself, makes him less able to bear
those responsibilities that nothing can relieve
him of. If you could take all his
duties from him, as we sometimes do, it
would only make it certain that he would
not then even do his duty by himself."
 I often puzzle over this kind of thing,
Felix. If nobody is to inherit or use any
money or anything that has not been
earned with perfect honesty, and also by
some noble trade or honourable means that
does good and no harm, how are any of
us to have anything  anything, I mean, but
what we earn ourselves ? "

"And yet," observed FeHx, in his most
dispassionate tone, "if, after a man's deaths

his relations were to sit in judgment on
him, and were to bring out and make a
gi-eat heap of all the things they thought
he had not earned with perfect honesty,
and were to allow the nnscrnpnlons to have
a free fight over them, each appropriating
what he could for his own benefit, would
that make the world any better than it is ?"

Amias laughed. '* And then there is the
land," he observed.

* Quite true. How little land was ever
originally appropriated with anything like
honesty ! Often first got by violence, often
long kept by violence, or extortion  Church
land just the same as others."

*ewe are a bad lot."

You have just discovered it ? "

' No, I was always peaceably aware of it.
But what is the good of that? Why am
I obliged to be constantly thinking of such
things ? Everything in my lot turns them
up for my consideration. I must think on

them ; and yet I know quite well that, even
if I could do away with a wrong, it would
not make a right."

FeHx, who was still mending his pens,
smiled with good-humoured sarcasm, and,
beginning to answer in a tone of banter,
got more grave as he went on. ' My dear
young friend, I hope you don't think that
the harbouring of such thoughts shows anything
original in the cast of your mind. I
went through the same experiences at your
age. That expression, ' He cannot call his
soul his own,' has deep meaning in it, that
the first utterer never knew of. Whence
the soul is derived we have been informed,
and some of us believe it ; but many of us,
to the last, decline to believe in any influence
over it from its Source, other than
what we are pleased to call a religious
influence; and yet, comparing the soul to
an inland sea, imprisoned as it were within
us, we must allow that it often flings up on

its strand, for our senses and observation
to exercise themselves on, things out of its
depths that we never knew to be there.
You cannot call your soul your own ;
but, on the whole, it pleases me greatly
to find that you are getting over the wish
to do so  more satisfied to give way to
these 'inconvenient thoughts,' which, if
they were of a more solemn nature, and
made you feel unhappy, you would more
easily acknowledge for what they are."

*' There's nothing in my being satisfied
noiv.''

' What do you mean ? "

*why, I've got forty pounds by honest
trade, and I not only feel now that I shall
not be a burden to you, but I find that you
by no means blame me. Why," continued
Amias, with boyish self-scorn, ''I
hope you don't think I would be such a prig
as to whine about the giving up of my oiun
prospects. I wouldn't have our fellows

know low much I cared the other night
oven about your supposed annoyance  no,
not for the whole price of that necklace.

But, I say, Felix "

'WeU?"

When you come up to London, you
shall hear something that you don't
expect."

Not a temperance lecture from you,
I hope!" exclaimed Felix, suddenly suspicious.


 Why not?"

* Because you are much too young."
' Well, I've promised our fellows."
'' What have they to do with it ? "
 You need not look so vexed. I tell you
it will be a real one  perfectly solemn, and
all that. Why, they have subscribed to
give a tea to the people. We shall issue
Id. tickets for it. It will be the best lark
I ever had. No ; I mean no harm. It will
be a capital lecture, though I say so.

Several of our fellows helped me to get
it up. And we expect you to take the
chair."

' Do you mean to tell me that you are
all taking this up out of real desire to do
good, and in serious approval of the temperance
cause ? "

 No, Felix, I don't. We're going to
give a tea-drinking at the beginning 
there's no harm in that ; then a temperance
lecture in the middle  short and strong;
and then we shall wind up with a few
transparencies and a couple of songs. The
tea will be just as good for the poor old
women as if we were all in earnest, instead
of only one of us."

*' Why, you have just this moment told
me that you should consider it a great lark! "
exclaimed Felix.

swell, so I shall; but do you mean to
tell me, just after talking in the serious way
you have, that when I am doing a thing I

earnestly wish to do, because I fully believe
it will produce good, and when I am willing
give up all sorts of things for its sake, I
am not to see, or even to suspect, what fun
it will be to us as well ? You need not be at
all afraid, Felix ; we are going to have it in
Baby Tanner's parish. Mrs. Tanner approves,
so I leave you to judge whether it
will be right and serious enough."

Mrs. Tanner was the Miss Thimblebyby
who had married imprudently, and frightened
Mrs. Snaith by her severe remarks.
Becoming tired of the bucolic poor, she had
caused her husband to take a miserable perpetual
curacy in one of the worst parts of
London, and they were both struggling
with their duties there in the most heroic
fashion.

Chapter IV.

Amias, after Ms short holiday, accompanied
Felix to London, and the temperance tea-drinking
duly came off.

Finding that the reverend gentleman who
has been called Baby Tanner looked forward
to it in all good faith as something
likely to elevate his people, and that he
expected his old friend to take the chair,
Felix agreed to do so  admired the simple
industry of the good man, and the painstaking
efforts of his ponderous wife to get
the place into-order.

Everything is left to us," she explained.
*none of the fashionable people run after
Carlos."

VOL. II. G

SARAH DE BERENGER.

'No wonder," thought Felix, when he
saw this rosy-faced, single-minded saint
trotting about after his school-children.

But," the wife continued, '4t is because
we are so far from the fashionable localities
that I never get any ladies to come and
help us."

Mrs. Tanner knew very well that the
youths who were going to entertain her
poor women expected to entertain themselves
as well, but it was very difficult to
fill her mothers' meetings and get the
women to church, or the children to school,
if she never had any kind of treat to give
them. All the tickets were to be in her
hands, and she had the buying of the bread
and the butter, and the ordering of the
cakes and the tea ; so she took care that
there should be plenty of these commodities,
and gladly agreed that the schoolrooms
should be at the service of the * committee"
for this great occasion.

She Iliad been governess to the head of
the committee iu his childhood, and Amias
she had known slightly all his life ; so she
hoped they might be trusted  particularly
 Lord Bob," who, as Felix was told by one
of the committee when he inquired, was
a son of the Duke of Thingumy."

* And here he is with the bag," cried the
youth, dashing downstairs on the eventful
evening, while Felix with Amias and three
of the committee were enjoying a  meat
tea " in the little lodgings.

 Where's the prisoner?" exclaimed a
tall, dark youth, rushing in and holding up
a large camlet bag.

"He's all right," cried the second committee
man.

'' Not funking in the least," said the
thud.

He'd better not. Escape is now impossible."


Come on," quoth Lord Bob, seizing

Amias ; and the two disappeared into the-small
chamber beyond. There were no less
than twelve committee men. This move
enabled some to enter who had been standing
on the tiny landing. The room was
now absolutely full, but shouts of laughter
being heard issuing from the chamber, the
youths soon pulled its door open, and a man
was seen within. Eather an elderly man,
with rough grey hair, and a fine white
beard. He was then in course of being
arrayed in a black coat, which sat loosely, for
it was a good deal too big. Lord Bob was
buttoning it for him up to the throat. His
linen collar was large and limp, and he had
on a pair of loose black kid gloves. Shrieks
of laughter greeted his appearance. FeHx
did not recognize him till he made a step or
two forward.

Amias ! " he then exclaimed angrily ; but
his voice was drowned in acclamation.

What jolly go!"

 He looks fifty!"

* Nobody could possibly know him ! "
Doesn't he look respectable I "
' My friends," said Amias, gazing mildly
round, and wiping a large pair of spectacles
on a white handkerchief  'my friends,
this riot and these peals of laughter are
unseemly. Yes, Felix, it's no use your
looking furious; you don't suppose my lecture
would be listened to if I only looked
nineteen ? My friends, let us go forward."

Twelve against one, and that one silent
from displeasure, was too great odds.
Felix mechanically allowed himself to ' go
forward; " that is, he was among the youths
as they thundered down the narrow staircase.
The landlady, who was holding the
door open, curtsied to Amias, not recognizing
him. FeHx, almost without his own
choice, found himself in a spare omnibus,
which had been hired for the occasion. He
put off deciding what to do till he reached his

destination. The driver and the conductor
both devoted teetotalers, had been exhorted
by Lord Bob to attend the meeting, for the
room was expected to be very empty.
These zealous individuals promised so todo,
and the youths, swarming outside and
inside, caused them deep edification by
lustily singing temperance songs. One gave
such especial pleasure that they respectfully
begged the young gentleman to repeat it.
It began, No, we are not ashamed of the
cause  oh, we are not ashamed of the
cause ! "

Amias, a little daunted by the gravity
and displeasure of Felix, tried to check
them; but he could not say much, for he
had taught them that song himself, having
heard it sung by some excellent and singleminded
folks, who pronounced it,  We air
not ashamed," and having imitated that, as
well as the peculiar burr sometimes imparted
to their vocal exercises by the uneducated.

The committee, of course, gave the song
as they had learned it ; and Felix had just
decided how to act so as best, when he was
called to the chair, to overpower the ridiculous
element which at present was uppermost,
when the vehicle stopped in a shabby
street opposite the parish schools.

Remarkable fact !  a good many men,
whose hands were not too clean, welcomed
the committee with especial cheerfulness,
almost with hilarity. Some insisted on
shaking hands with them.

* We had a thought of taking the bosses
out and dragging yer in," said one gentleman.
Others declared their intention of
attending the meeting, so soon as the
ladies had finished their tea."

No fewer than two public-houses and a
small gin-palace were visible, and placards
of the intended meeting were ostentatiously
posted up all over them.

Felix, being the last to descend, noted

these circumstances, and had a short conversation
apart with the driver and conductor,
both of whom assured him that
they were wide awake, and promised to acton
his directions.

He then entered the large boys' schoolroom.
'* Remarkable fact ! " exclaimed the
Eev. Carlos Tanner. ' It shows how deeply
the minds of the masses are stirred on this
great subject. Why, the very publicans, to
please them, are advertising our meeting ! "
His eye then fell on Amias, and Lord Bob
had the impudence, without mentioning his
name, to introduce him with much apparent
respect as an eminent friend to the
* cause."

All the committee then hastened upstairs
to the girls' schoolroom, where one hundred
poor women, all looking meek, most of
them pale, and many old, were waiting for
their tea.

The committee, having piled up their

hats in a corner, fell at once, and without
a struggle, under the dominion of Mrs.
Tanner. The noisiest spirits became calm ;
the number of babies materially helped to
daunt them. Mrs. Tanner called one and
another to cut up cakes ; others had to tilt
the great kettles, and carry round the teapots
; some handed sugar, others put in
milk. Pity and respect awoke in their
young minds ; they all behaved like gentlemen,
and took real delight in seems the
enjoyment of the guests over the steaming
tea and excellent viands.

Work was found for all excepting Lord
Bob and Amias, each of whom fell under
the eye of Mrs. Tanner, and knew that she
knew all about it. She detected Amias
at once under his disguise ; she knew that
Lord Bob had done it. These two young
gentlemen where therefore fain to sneak
away from her ' severe regard" of control,
and press their services on such of the

ladies as sat in corners, or lead been
quickest in despatch of victuals.

The guests had just arrived at that point
when, to their regret, they were obliged
to leave off eating and drinking from sheer
repletion; and the committee, having
divided the considerable quantity of food
that was left into portions, were helping the
ladies to wrap them up in handkerchiefs, or
get them into their pockets, when Felix
came up, and had no sooner said grace,
by Mrs. Tanner's desire, than Mr. Tanner
followed, with a beaming countenance.

** My dear, the room below is so full  so
absolutely full! Not one seat vacant, and
people outside. It passes my utmost hope.
In fact, we must have a second meeting for
you, my friends, up here."

** Yes," said Felix, to the surprise of Mrs.
Tanner, suddenly taking on himself to order
matters. ' It would be a good plan if I
went down with you. Tanner, and the

lecturer ; and the committee was left up
here to sing the temperance songs, and
afterwards show the transparencies."

The members of the committee were
nothing loth, excepting Lord Boh, who,
prescient of some fun or mischief, declared
that he ought to go down with the lecturer.
The others, who had expected to sit through
the lecture and have nothing to do till it
was over, were naturally not averse from a
plan which enabled them to begin at once,
and the poor women, very warm and comfortable
by this time, were right glad to
stay where they were.

Mr. Tanner led the ways to the boy's
schoolroom. He entered first, then Felix. It
was packed fall. A low laugh of ecstasy
broke out here and there, and was gone like
summer lightning, while a voice cried out
in tones of delight, ' Here comes vicar, and
here comes the temperance man. My !
don't he look as if he never got a drop of

anything comfortable ! " This compliment
was intended for Felix, whose face, naturally
dark and thin, was never embellished by
ruddy hues, and now looked especially grave.

The crowd was so hilarious that both the
reverend gentlemen felt the impossibility of
opening such a meeting with prayer.

Felix wondered whether Amias would
have nerve enough to address an assembly
so manifestly enjoying some secret joke.
But he need not have troubled himself; nothing
was further from their minds than tolet
the lecturer be heard at all.

Felix was, however, successfully called to
the chair ; but he had no sooner introduced
the lecturer, than a deafening round of applause
broke out, and was not appeased till
four policemen stood up in different parts of
the room, and, without regarding any individuals
in the seated crowd, appeared to
be looking with interest at the doors and
the tallow candles in the chandeliers.

The aye or six people who had actually
come to the meeting from some misguided
notion that they should improve their knowledge
or inflame their zeal by means of it,
must have found such outrageous enthusiasm
very inconvenient.

Amias began to speak, but at the end of
his first sentence the cheers broke out again,
so that he seemed to be acting in dumb show.
Not a word was heard beyond the platform.
Dust rose and caused a good deal of coughing,
and presently there was cuffing and
struggling in one corner, during which half
the meeting turned round. Enough voices
encouraged some one, some the other combatant,
but they were soon hauled asunder
by two policemen, and successfully marched
out at two different doors.

' Go on," shouted Felix to Amias.

A good many men and lads followed the
combatants; the doors banged incessantly,
and two more policemen came in, which

seemed to cause a slight lull, so that a sentence
was distinctly audible.

Amias had, of course, learned his lecture
by heart, and now delivered himself of this
most inappropriate sentence 

 For I have a right to suppose, my
friends, from your attendance here, and
your attention on this occasion, that your
feelings are in harmony with that great
cause which I have the honour "

 Harmony ! " shrieked a voice, far louder
than his. "Bless yon, sir, there never was
anything like the harmony as pervades this
assembly."

*' Give the gentleman a hearing," cried
a real sympathizer, very much put out.

"Give him three cheers," shouted another.

Amias was obliged to go on. It was trying
work, for several men, in a high state of
good humour, had mounted on the benches
to propose resolutions ; others kept pulling
them down again.

 We air not obligated to hear the gentleman,"
cried one.

' Not by no means," shouted a policeman
; '' you air only obligated to keep the
peace." This was said while a drunken
man was being assisted to make his exit.

'rit's a plot," shouted Mr. Tanner to
Felix, hardly making himself heard amid
the cheering and scraping of feet.

''Of course," shouted Felix in reply.
They've been treated by the publicans.
Can't you see that many are half tipsy ? "

"Then what are we to do-o ? " shouted
Mr. Tamer.

"Let them alone," shouted Felix, "till
they're tired of it. Go on," he continued
to Amias. " If you stop, and we try to
retreat, there'll be a riot."

Amias never forgot the next half-hour as
long as he lived  the dust, the sudden
di-aught of air, the banging doors, the guttering
candles, the stand-up fights with fisticuffs

that came off now and then in corners,
and occasionally the sound of his own voice
when there was a lull. Now and then came
words of encouragement from, Felix, together
with a charge to go on ; and he did so,
hae mechanically, not feeling any nervousness
about his lecture. "Why should he, when
so little of it was heard ? At last he could not
hut notice that the room was less crowded.
The dust being thick, there was more
coughing and less cheering, and the spirits of
the audience seemed to flag. Not being interfered
with in any way worth mentioning,
they began to think they had had enough
of their joke. Portions of the floor became
visible ; there was even more noise now in
the street than in the room. Amias, having
involuntarily stopped to cough, one of the
audience chose to suppose that the meeting
was over, and, jumping on a form, proposed
a vote of thanks to the chair.

 Wind up now," said Felix, and he made
his bow.

The vote was responded to by a considerable
show of hands.

'those," continued the proposer, 'whose
opinion is contrary to him, hold up theirs."

About an equal show for this side of the
question.

This meeting thanks the chairman and
likewise the lecturer," proceeded the orator,
and they air respectfully invited never to
come here any more."

The police were slowly moving from the
centre of the room towards the doors, and
now that it was half empty, it became
manifest that nobody liked to be last.
There was a sudden rush, during which a
respectable-looking man, who had been
standing with his back to one of them,
enjoying the scene, got knocked down,
and hurt ; but they soon had him up
again, and just as the last of the audience
disappeared, and the doors were bolted behind
them, the first of the committee came

VOL. II. H

downstairs, and appeared at the back of
the platform.

It would be a waste of time to attempt
to describe how sulky the committee were
when they found what a *grow" there had
been, and they not in it. The resources of
the English language cannot convey the
darting flashes of eleven pairs of eyes, set in
the brows of eleven youths between the
ages of seventeen and twenty-one, which,
with natural indignation, they hurled at the
back of FeHx, as he stood in the front
talking to the policemen.

* Well, I hope you're satisfied, gentlemen,
with this temperance work of yours," observed
the most important of the two policemen
still present, while he wiped his hot
forehead.

You see, sir, you're new to the work,"
remarked the other, accosting Mr. Tanner ;
*but this elderly gentleman," pointing to
Amias, ' he did ought to have known
better."

The light was none of the best. The
policemen went on, first one, then the other.

' There's two cases for the lock-up, and a
broken arm. You saw that respectable man
knocked down ? I expect you'll have to go
before the magistrates and give your evidence."


 I essay you don't expect to go
triumphing home atop of that vehicle of
you? "

The committee looked as if they did.

*rit's now a- waiting for you outside. I
consider you'd better not be drawer out of
the neighbourhood. AYhat breaches of the
peace we'd hed already would be nothing to
speak of compared "

Now then, gentlemen, if you please,"
they both exclaimed, as there was a thundering
knock at the principal door. ' They're
all ready for you there, so you follow us out
at the back, as fast as your legs will carry
you."

SAKAH DE BEKENGEE.

The committee, deeply disgusted, lead to
obey. They came out into a playground-one
of the policemen had a key, and after
fumbling awhile at the lock of the door, let
the party out into a miserably dark and
shabby court, marching them through its
empty length, and through several winding
ways, till they found themselves in a considerable
thoroughfare, and close to a metropolitan
station.

Whilst waiting for the train, Amias was
divested of his wig and beard, and all the
party, very much disgusted with things in
general, set forth in a silence that for sometime
was absolutely unbroken.

Lord Bob spoke at last, after deep cogitation.
''If it hadn't been for Mr. de Berenger
we should all have got ourselves into a jolly

row."

But Amias was dull in his spirits ; he did
not like the hint that had been dropped by
the policeman, that he might be called onto

give evidence before the magistrates.
He had seen the fighting and scuffling, and
he had seen the man knocked down.

'* Bob," he said, Wlo yon think the
magistrates can do anything to us if it turns
out that I was disguised, and that we did it
all for a lark ? "

Lord Bob was sixteen months older than
Amias. Sixteen months count at that time
of life. He reassured his young friend.  I
do not see that they can. It was straight
and fair. Mr. de Berenger says he knew
the moment he saw the placards that the
publicans would have the best of it. There
were two larks, you see, and they both flew
up, as it were, and met, and had a tussle in
the air. Neither lark was prepared for the
other. The publicans thought we were
ordinary temperance fogies. They did not
want us, of course, and they treated a lot
of fellows to cheer themselves hoarse, and
utterly quench us with applause. Still,

thongs the publicans outwitted us, our lark
came down without loss of a feather, and
theirs got badly pecked."

*If it hadn't been for my wig'' said
Amias, doubtfully, 'I could have looked
any magistrate in the face."

Did the meeting find it out, though
eighteen ' dips ' illuminated it ? "

No."

'I heard Mrs. Tanner say to Baby
Dark, my dear I How can the room be
dark, when there are eighteen dips in the
chandeliers, exclusive of the four on the
platform ? ' Baby was all in his glory,,
excited quite out of himself, and reckless
of tallow; but when he found she was
inexorable, and would have no more melted
for this great occasion, he trotted gently
away. Well, you allow that the meeting
did not find it out. Did the police, then  I
ask you that? "

' Not one."

*Wlieii you appear in court in your
ordinary rig, they'll declare you are not the
man. You will then fall on your knees and
confess the whole. The magistrates will
inquire of me, ' Why did you aid and abet
this young fellow in disguising himself ? '
I shall reply, ' To make him look respectable.'
They will answer, nothing can do
that.' I shall desire leave to show the
contrary. We retire. Tableau in court.
You, in your wig and beard, your loose
gloves and spectacles; I with my arm out
as a sign-post point. Two policemen faint,
crying out,  'Tis he ! ' You immediately begin
your lecture. The court hastens enthralled,
and before they know where they are, three
attorneys have taken the pledge."

** Bob, it's no use. I feel like a fool."

' So do I. I almost always do. I think
the reason must be "

'What?"

 Why, that I am a fool. But," he continued,

4f you think I am a greater fool
than yourself, or if you think I think that
I am, I can only say you never were more
mistaken."

FeHx was seated in the same compartment
with these two, and, with hands thrust
into his pockets, was deep in thought ; hut
when Amias said, * Do you think the magistrates
can do anything to us?" surprise
arrested his attention, and the shadow of
a smile flitted over his face. He felt what
a strangely boyish speech this was, and did
not care to comfort his brother and Lord
Bob on the occasion. He considered that
a little anxiety on the point might be
wholesome. He felt the incongruity between
this and the absolute self-possession Amias
had shown, his sensible readiness in yielding
to orders, the naturally fine action which,
even under those adverse circumstances,
had shown itself now and then. He began
to experience that attentive state of mind

towards Amias with which we regard things
curious and uncommon. He began to perceive
that he never would be Hke other
people. He had been a manly little fellow
in his childhood, but childhood was not
gone, dead, buried, and forgotten. Felix
was vexed, not having sufficiently remarked
that the finest characters are never of rapid
growth. He thought Amias ought to have
done with childhood ; but he was a graduate
in nature's university. Nature is wiser
than the schoolmaster; she educates, but
she never crams. Her scholars do not go
up to take their degrees ; their degrees come
to them.

CHAPTER V.

The Rev. Felix de Berenger was called
upon to appear before the magistrates and
give evidence as regarded various scuffles
and riotous crowds, wych. had resulted in
some broken bones, and which were directly-caused
by, or at any rate had taken place at,
a temperance meeting over which he had
presided.

It, however, came out that the three
publicans in the immediate vicinity had
freely distributed a great deal of liquor, and
had encouraged their customers to give a
lively reception to the lecturer ; also to take
heed not to let his voice be heard, but todo

this in a cheerful, fair, and unexceptionable
fashion. They had likewise encouraged
the crowd to take out the omnibus horses,
one of which, being frightened, had become
unmanageable, got away, and dashed
through the window of a sausage-shop,
whence he withdrew his head with a necklace
of sausages where his collar should
have been. A long string of sympathizers
with the publicans had got a rope and
hoped, by means of it, to draw the omnibus
down the street, and a great assembly,
whose best friends could hardly have called
them sober, hung about waiting to help
them ; and when at last they discovered
that the lecturer and committee, instead
of mounting the machine, had gone out
another way, they were indignant, and went
and smashed the windows of the smaller
pubic-house.

Why this ? Well, it appeared that the
landlord of this very public-house had lent

the rope, thoiigli it was declared by several
ringleaders that he must have known what
the police were after; for, in short, when
they came round and remarked that the
gentlemen were off, they were seen to wink
at him  ergo he must have meant, by means
of this rope, to occupy the people, and at
the same time baulk them of a very innocent
piece of fun.

The policeman here earnestly declared
that he had not winked, and the magistrate
crushed him. At the same time, he was very
pleasant with Felix, and let it be evident
that he considered the temperance cause
rather ridiculous than otherwise.

Amias and Lord Bob were within call,
but the inquiry seemed nearly over, and
Felix hoped that a sarcasm or two directed
against himself would be all the temperance
cause, as represented by the late affair,
would have to suffer; but at last an unlucky
question was asked, to which he could

not frame a true answer without exciting
surprise. Another followed, and thereupon
both the youths were called, and the whole
ridiculous affair came out.

But they were not dealt with in the same
fashion as the publicans or the chairman
had been. They were both very fine, 
young fellows ; there was something
boyish and ingenuous about them.
They excited amusement, and they took
pains to remind the court that no one had
found out the wig ; it therefore could have
had nothing to do with the riotous proceedings.
This was so manifest, that they got
nothing but the very slightest of reprimands,
and that was hae lost in the cheering,
which, however, was instantly jut down by
the presiding magistrate.

This was a great occasion for Amias,
though he little thought so at the time.
He and Lord Bob were retiring, both feeling
more foolish by half than they had done

the previous night, when the latter was
accosted hy his maternal grandfather.

This old gentleman, whose sole distinction
in life was that the duke's sons were his
grandsons, was allowed hy them all to he
the best grandfather going. He was specially
proud of this one, and when he saw
him giving his evidence, screening his friend
and letting it be seen, in a blundering and
ingenuous fashion, how little he cared for
the temperance cause, and how much he
loved a lark, then the grandfather felt that
of all the dozens of larks after which his
grandsons had craved aid of him and got it,
not one had come before his notice that was
so innocent.

Innocent indeed it had proved  far more
so than had ever been intended  for it cannot
be supposed that a dozen youths would have
lent themselves to a cause they did not care
for, if nothing more attractive than has
appeared had been in the programme.

No ; they looked indeed for a temperance
lecture, and Amias had stipulated that the
first half of his should be given in sober
sadness, and should contain as many trenchant
sentences against drink as he, with all
care and much elaboration, had got into it.
But the second hae ?

They came down, as they thought, in
plenty of time to hear the second half.
Amias, being a great mimic, fully intended
to give them the treat of hearing capital
imitations of no less than three lecturers
with whom he had made them more or less
familiar.

There was to be an interval ; the lecturer,
making his bow, was to sit down and partake
of his cold water, while the committee was
to be called on by the chairman for some
songs.

They counted on having a very dull,
stupid audience, who would never get as
far beyond surprise as to reach suspicion,

and would not find out how the lecturer,
beginning again in the style and with the
voice of the great Smith, and imitating his
anecdotes and his frown, would gradually
and cautiously develop himself into the
more stately and gentlemanly Jones, with
his glib statistics and see-saw motion of the
hands ; and then, toning down Jones in delicate
gradations, would carefully take up a
third voice and work it up, and work himself
up, till, with coat-tails flying, and eyes-ready
to start from his head, be concluded
with the impassioned screams of the fervid
Robinson.

And the parson-brother of Amias  what
an element of joy it added to the programme,
that it would be impossible for
him to remonstrate, or in any way to interfere
!

There he would be, seated in all state,
looking every inch a parson. He would not
find out at first. They should behold his air

of startled puzzlement, then his awakened
intelligence, not unmixed with indignation,
and finally his vain attempts to look stolid,
and his alarm lest the audience should perceive
that they were being made game of.

What might occur after this they left to
the event, hut they by no means wished
that their little plot should be discovered.
No, they trusted that Amias and his brother,
the parson, would manage better ; for, if not,
the entertainment could hardly come off
again. If Mr. Tanner found out, it was
of no consequence, they thought, unless
he told Mrs. Tanner.

No wonder they were sulky as they drove
home ; circumstances had been hard upon
them.

But to return to the grandfather. Felix
escaped to his book-stalls when the inquiry
was over, and the grandfather drove Lord
Bob and Amias to his house to lunch, where
he was disturbed to see that neither of them

VOL. II. 1

drank anything but water. The slightest of
Scotch accents emphasized his words not
becomingly.  Ye were as thin as a lath
always, Eohert ; and if ye drink nothing hut
water, ye'll he just liable to blow away."

'quite true. Why, I'm so light, that
the wind almost takes me off my legs now.
I must be weighted, to keep me down."
He plunged his hands in his pockets. ''I
must put some pieces of lead in these,"
he observed; ''or perhaps gold would do,
grandpa. Have you any about you
handy?"

They always called him grandpa when
they wanted money, and he always laughed
and thought it droll.

Lord Eohert received ten sovereigns in
his palm. "And now, grandpa, when

you pay the bill " he observed, as he

counted them.

What bill ? " cried grandpa, with pretended
sharpness.

"Why, the omnibus horse fell down and
broke his knees. If you will go in for these
larks, like a rare old bird as you are, why,
you must pay for them. And the man who
broke his arm used to earn thirty shillings
a week, when he was sober, though he never
thought of working on a Monday. I'm
afraid you're in for that thirty shillings
a weak till his arm's well. I don't know
what you think, but that's my view,
grandpa."

"Yes, yes," said the grandfather, still
rather pleased at this dependence on
him than grieved to part with his cash.
 Noblesse oblige, Eobert, when it has a
grandfather."

Quite my view again."

But I'll need to investigate these claims
before I pay anything."

"Oh yes," answered the grandson; and
now he naturally looked on his liabilities
in this matter as settled to the satisfaction

of all parties; that is, lie felt that honour
demanded that, as he was the eldest of the
committee hy several months, as well as
the ringleader and the one of highest
rank, the proper person to pay was his
grandfather.

The story of Amias was already known
to the grandfather. It had been told, however,
with a difference, as thus :  ' He was
heir to his uncle, a baronet, and a jolly
old brewer, the richest man in the county ;
had been allowed to spend as much as he
liked, you know. And the old boy had
such covers ! Never expected him to go in
for work, excepting about as much as a
fellow might rather like than otherwise.
Well, and then he happened, entirely for
fun, to pull down a temperance lecturer,
and mount the beer barrel he was standing
on and lecture himself. And the old uncle
was in such a rage ; he said he was insulted,
and disinherited him, and turned him out

of doors. It is tlioiigiit he will leave his
money to his granddaughters. And now,
yon know, De Berenger has nothing hut
his heggaiiy pay. He told me the other
day that he often got his dinner at an
eating-house for eleven pence  it was either
eleven pence or thirteen pence, I know ; and
yet he's one of the jolliest fellows going.
I came to know him through little Peep.
He was one of little Peep's chums."

The young man called little Peep was
one of Lord Bob's second cousins, and had
been his schoolfellow. He was little physically,
but as a fool he was great.

Amias had been duly warned that little
Peep was never to be chaffed, reasoned
with, or remonstrated with at all, it
having been found by experience that there
was much more fun to be got out of him by
letting him alone.

But, sad to relate, little Peep's career
in the same Government office which had

the advantage of young De Berenger's
services had been cut short ; in fact, he had
been called on to take possession of a
moderately good estate in the north of
Scotland, in consequence of the death
of a distant cousin, and the end of this was
that he fell under the dominion of two elder
sisters, and, as far as could be now known,
he was, to the grief of his old friends, conducting
himself almost like other people.

And yet it had come to pass that little
Peep had introduced Amias to Lord Bob,
just before he took his lamented departure
for the north, and then it had come to pass
that Lord Bob had introduced him to the
grandfather, who not only carried him home
to lunch, but liked him, and pressingly
invited him to dinner.

Amias had got his dress clothes now, and
did not care who invited him. He went
to dinner several times, and there he met
people of all sorts  radical members, rising

barristers, authors, newspaper editors, and
dandies of fashion. They fed his opening
mind with large discourse, they stimulated
his sense of humour by their oddities : the
radicals helped his plastic mind to the certainty
that he was a conservative ; the
authors drew him to themselves. As for
the newspaper editors, he regarded them
almost as kings, and would have long gone
on doing so, if some of them had not made
it plain to him that they shared, and rather
more than shared, his views concerning
them.

Oh, what a curious place the world is, and
what a number of things are found out
afresh in it ! What faded old facts stand
forth in startling colours, as wonderful and
new, when youthful genius gets a chance of
sitting still while it passes, and making unnoticed
studies of it !

Does it really matter nothing to the
possessors whether their rank and standing

came first a mark of grace or of disgrace?
Apparently not. And these sons and these
cousins, who have inherited a great name in
science or in literature ? The dear progenitor
sits, as it were, Hke an Egyptian of
old, at all their feasts. He never gets any
rest in his grave; they have got him out,
and are all hanging on behind him, using
his dead body as a rammer with which they
push. Strange that, because he was wise,
they should think he must ram a hole for
them to enter, and show themselves fools
where they please.

And here are two politicians. They have
been having a battle royal, each for his
party. One of them almost flew at the
other's throat, in the papers, and now they
meet with undisguised pleasure, and talk
about flies. So they only quarrelled for
their constituents then, and now they revert
to friendship and their fishing.

Amias found plenty to feed his observant

mind the first time lie dined at grandpa's
house. The next visit afforded him just as
much interest and as many speculations.

During the thuxl evening he came to
honour. An editor spoke to him ! He was
sitting quietly and hearkening to the discourse
with modest attention, when with a
certain kindliness, as the conversation
ended, and the other converser moved
away, this royal personage turned and said,
 I dare say you have been very much
bored. Eh?"

Amias brusquely declared the contrary.
The subject was one that was just beginning
to interest people. He had read a
book or two already that bore on it, and he
made such intelligent comments on them
and the conversation, that the editor said,
' Not bad."

And then somebody else coming up to
talk, he kindly admitted Amias to the
conversation, and once called on him for

his opinion. He gave it with his natural
fervour, and with a touch of humour which
was always ready to his hand. When they
parted, he somehow behaved himself to
understand that if he wrote a letter ou
the point in question, for this said editor's-journal,
it might possibly appear in print.

This was only a hint, but Amias had
heard earlier that the matter wanted
' airing."

Two days after a letter actually appeared
in the journal. Amias, with a leap of the
heart, saw his signature, 'A. de B." He
read the letter with greedy eyes, and a
dread lest it should have been altered, that
would have taken away half his pleasure.
But no; it was put in just as he had written
it, and he sighed with joy and pride.

In the joy of his heart Amias sent the
newspaper down to his brother. In a few
days other letters appeared; some of them
referred to ' A. de B.," and agreed with him.

Amias wrote a second letter, but as lie was
reading it, with the peculiar delight that it
always gives a young writer to see himself
in print, a letter came from Felix, full of
affectionate remonstrance. Felix admonished
his young brother that he ought not
to interfere in matters too high for him, nor
to set his heart on influence, before he had
learned to get a bare having. Most religious
people who are restricted to certain places,
and particular lines of duty, as well as kept
back by small means, are beset with such
fears for the more adventurous spirits about
them, not considering how much more dangerous
it is for youth to lack a worthy
interest, and find low things tempting,
because life is empty and poor. High
things to each mind are the things above it.
Let each put forth his hand for those on its
own level. It is difficult to think of things
as high in the abstract. The dining-room
table is high to a black-beetle, but a camelopard

can easily look in at the first-floor
window.

And so it came to pass that, through
Lord Bob's grandfather, Amias first meta
number of interesting people, and then
found his own level, which was a much
more important matter. He soon went to
visit his newspaper friend, and from him
had introduction to all sorts of men  got
among painters and authors, from great
historians and poets to the merest literary
hacks, and commenced dabbling in literature
himself, picking up a few guineas
here and there for articles in periodicals
and magazines. The aristocracy of culture
began to take him up ; the Bohemians,
luckily, would have none of him, and he
soon dropped away from the world of
fashion.

Lord Bob, however, continued his fast
friend. They suited each other too well
for severance to be possible. How young

they were when they began to lecture in
public (not by any means always on the
temperance question), whether they dared
to disguise themselves or not, whether they
succeeded to their satisfaction, and how
many allies and accomplices they had, ara
not matters that it is needful to enlarge
upon here.

At the same time, it would not be violating
any confidence to inform the reader
that little Peep, keeping up a correspondence
with his old ' chums" in the Government
office, and having the celebrated
lecture sent down in manuscript to read,
wrote in reply, to the intense delight and
astonishment of all concerned, and informed
them 'that he saw things in a new light,
and he and his second sister intended to
take the pledge."

'good little fool!" exclaimed Amias,.
with such a sense of shame and compunction
as almost forced tears into his eyes.

He Remembered with what gravity he and
Lord Bob had pressed into little Peep's
hand at parting a long letter on his duties
as a landlord ; and this he had taken in
good part, though he owned that at first
he was so elated, what with a moor of his
own, and real gillies, etc., etc., that he had
not read it.

' Innocent little Peep ! " exclaimed Lord
Bob to Amias. ' Only think of his giving
himself the airs of a reformed rake ! And
he thinks we are all in earnest as well as
himself. I must write and undeceive him 
let him down gently."

'you had much better let him alone.
I don't see that you have any right to
interfere with my first convert," answered
Amias.

And Lord Bob, reverting to the known
power of little Peep to act himself best when
not interfered with, did let him alone, and
the consequence of that was that little

Peep wrote very soon to ask if he might
clever the lecture himself in the next town.
His sister thought he was quite old enough,
and he thought it might do good.

Amias curtly consented, feeling very much
ashamed; hut Lord Bob, to whom the
correspondence had, of course, been shown,
wrote and counselled little Peep to return
the lecture first, that 'the usual directions"
might be written on it. This was accordingly
done, and sent back marked here and
there, "Now drink a whole tumbler of
water, to shove your zeal for the cause;"
*' Here shed a few tears  three or four will
do;" "Here stamp  the right foot is the
proper one to use," etc., etc.

Amias never knew that this had been
done till little Peep returned the lecture,
having read it in three neighbouring towns
with great pride and joy. He said he
wished the directions had been simpler, for
he found it almost impossible to carry them

out ; but Amias would be glad to bear that
several people bad signed the pledge, and
be supposed that was the principal matter.

It is a blessed thing to be an ass!"
said Amias, on reading this to Lord Bob.
little Peep bas got more than twenty
people to leave off drinking, and we bave
never got one."

Chapter VI.

It was two years after the lecture before
Amias again appeared at the door of his
brother's parsonage  two years of growth,
expansion, and improvement for him, both
mentally, morally, and physically. He was
a fine young man now, tall, brown, and
broad-shouldered, and with a deep, manly
voice.

Felix, in the mean while, had been almost
stationary. He had, it seemed, reached the
limit of his mental growth, and he had
come to consider the parish as his world,
and the care of it as his life.

Amias, in his mind and thought, lived
with that brother, in that parsonage, close

VOL. II. K

to that church ; they were the scenery in
which he acted out his speculations, and
Felix was his audience. They were as
familiar to him as his own thumbs and
fingers, and yet, the moment he saw them,
he was, notwithstanding, aware of a change.
The furniture struck him with a sense of
surprise ; it was so simple, so sparsely distributed
about the rooms. And yet he remembered
that it had not been changed.
And Felix !  dear old Felix wore his newest
coat when he came to London, but now
he looked what he was, a country clergyman
with narrow means.

But then there were the two Httle girls
and Dick to be seen. Let us take the former
first, as having been the cause of every real
change about the place. They were most
beautiful creatures, their voices soft as the
cooing of doves. They were growing tall,
but they ran about the garden after Felix
as if they had been tame fawns.

Ann Thimblebyby and her sister were gone 
they had found a vegetarian family to teach
and a widow lady had come to the village
who acted as daily governess to the little
 Miss de Berengers." Old Sir Samuel
came frequently to see them. He was
treated almost with uncivil silence and
coldness by Mrs. Snaith. Sir Samuel loved
them and they loved him ; he thought they
grew more like his son John. The fact was,
that he had imparted a something pathetic
to his son's face, out of the pathos in his
own thoughts of him, as one whom he loved
and who was dead, and that something he
now and then beheld in these children's eyes.
He liked them to come to him and sit on his
knee, and insist on his kissing then dolls ;
it pleased him that they stroked their soft
hands over his beard, and took liberties
with his own particular pencil-case. Amabel
once begged a silk pocket-handkerchief of
him to make a counterpane for her best

doll. He gave it, and was exceedingly
snappish to Mrs. Snaith, when she brought
it in, the next time he called, washed and
ironed, and begged to apologize for " Miss
Amabel, who had taken a liberty, bless her."

Felix had not the least thought of ever
parting with Amabel and Delia, probably ashe
took for granted that they must somehow
be John's children ; he thought that was the
reason. And yet, if the whole truth had
been confided to him, he would, perhaps
have kept them ; they were dear to him,
as amusing as kittens ; they gave him no
trouble, and their love was demonstrative
and fervent, without being at all exacting.

When he was tired of them he could
always say, ' There, go to Mrs. Snaith,'
and, of course, Mrs. Snaith took good care
that he should have as little trouble with
them as possible. It caused her, some
years before, many a jealous pang to see
how they would go and peep in at his

study window, and stand there awhile for
the mere pleasure of looking at him. She
never told them not to do it, though the
end of it generally was that he would open
the window and give each of them a kiss,
that they might go away and play contentedly.
They always wore lockets that
Sir Samuel had given them. Felix thought
he knew and they knew what was in them ;
but once, when he asked Amabel, she shook
her head and whispered to him that she
was not to tell. He supposed it to be
John's hair.

Sir Samuel had decided to leave a
younger son's portion between them in his
will, but not to allow Felix anything for
them in the present. He had been told
what they possessed, and knew it was
sufficient. It was best to let well alone.
But he was improving, and, as his nephew
had said, developing a conscience. He
showed this in a very convenient vvay ; for

when Dick was of a proper age, he came
to see FeHx, and reverting to his old
grievance, that he could do nothing for
Amias, he proposed, entirely at his own
charge, to put Dick to school.

Felix, who had fully perceived that
Amias, with his views, ought not to accept
any of the old man's money, was yet far
from any such extreme notion as that he
himself was shut out from deriving benefit
from property which, but for an informal
will, would part of it have become his own.
He therefore accepted the proposal. Sir
Samuel sent the boy to a public school, and
paid all his bills also. This, he felt, could
establish no claim on him when school da3s
were over; and the result was that the
benefit came to his own family, though all
the time he felt convinced that he was
rewarding the more remote relative for
goodness shown to those nearer to him
his grandchildren, who, if he once began

openly to provide for them, might in the
future put forth a claim  expect, perhaps,
when they grew up, to come and live with
him.

Though he was such an old man, he
always supposed himself to be living when
they gi'ew up; he fancied himself at last
investigating matters, and of course discovering
that they were his son John's offspring.
He went through imaginary interviews
with their future suitors, in which
these gentlemen, requesting to be told his
intentions toward his granddaughters, were
made to settle handsome sums on the
young ladies, and content themselves for
the most part with future prospects.

In the mean while, the poor invalid, his
eldest son, died at last at Mentioned, and his
second son, Tom, akeady the father of
three little girls, sent them home to England.
It seemed a perversity of nature,
certainly, that he should have so many

children of the "wrong sort, but he fondly
hoped soon to add a boy.

These children  pale, fair little creatures
were established with then maternal grandmother
when they came over from Burma.
Sir Samuel went to the north of the county
to see them. They had the delicate complexions
and reddish hair of his family, but
he saw nothing interesting in their likeness
to their father. He loved Amabel and
Delia best.

The children of a drunken shoemaker,
who was a convict ! It seems unfair that
they should have been the cherished visitors
of an old man's dreams ; but there is often a
strange and curious balance in these matters.
He gave where there was no claim;
but then he had, with all his might, prevented
and thought scorn of the marriage
which would, in all likelihood, have caused
such a claim.

He loved these little aliens to his blood.

but at least they loved him in return, and
just in the kind and degree that he did.
They loved with the drawings of personal
approval and quite unreasonable preference.
He was nice; what he did was right. When
he came, they divided their cherries with
him ; when he went away to London, they
cried. He was not called grandfather, of
course, but he had a nickname that he Heed
just as well.

The simple fact of this equality of affection
would have made it sweet and worth
having, even if the truth had been discovered.
There would not have been that
pathos in it which hangs about most friendship
bestowed beyond the limits of the
family. In general, affection is not equal ;
one bestows with fervor' and cannot help it,
the other receives and rewards as well as he
or she can.

Amabel was now twelve years old, and
Dick was a fine boy, much grown and improved.

During his holidays the three
children were constant companions. They
were all young for their years. Amias
rather liked to have them at his heels, ashe
strolled about the garden with his cigar.
His gentleness with them endeared him to
Sir Samuel, who, with the usual perversity
of human liking, continued to find many
good qualities in him, and to regret his contumelious
withdrawal, mainly because he
had withdrawn, hut partly because he had
shown, especially of late, an excellent capacity
for getting on alone.

Mrs. Snaith, during those years, had
greatly improved; she had been drinking in
deep draughts of peace. Her voluntary descent
had been rewarded with the obscurity
she needed. Her renunciation of her two
children, also, was only in name ; she possessed
their hearts, and, excepting when
Sarah interfered, their confidence also.

Sarah disparaged her sometimes. ** Such

a dear kind nurse, my pets, but no occasion
to tell that to lier ; ask Cousin Sarah
Little giiis are not to be too intimate with
servants."

The children listened, tried to obey, and
for the moment gave themselves airs; but
nature was too strong for them, and they
stole away, when Cousin Sarah was not
looking, to '  help ' ' Mamsey when she was
working ; or, tall as they were growing, to
delight themselves with her caresses, or get
her to sit on the rocking-chair and take
them both at once on her knees.

Whenever there was anything the matter
with them, they were wholly her own.
They divided their smiles with others, but
all their tears were shed in her arms. Sometimes
she wept with them ; the child for its
passing grief, the mother for her infinite
misfortune  the lost and outraged love of
her youth, the disgraced life, the self-renunciation.
But, after all, when they had

wept together, the child, perfectly consoled,
would fall asleep on her bosom, and the
mother, with impassioned love, would admit
to herself, as all keen affection must, that if
she could not have both, she grudged their
joys far less to others than their tears.

Amias, who had hitherto taken his aunt
Sarah for granted, just as she was, felt surprised
to find her remarkably foolish; for
long absence, without destroying memory,
enabled him to look at customary things as
if they were fresh. He was surprised no
less to remark the complacent affection with
which Felix regarded her. She was more
slender, more sprightly, and more gaily
dressed than ever, and she was obviously
most welcome to do and say in his house
whatever she pleased.

Sometimes, when he was strolling about
the garden, cogitating on some political or
literary matter of real importance, he would
come upon a scene which for the moment

would fling him back with almost painful
suddenness into the past, and make the
later years of his Hfe look all unreal and
distant to him.

'eyes," Sarah was observing one day,
when he came upon them thus, "it is a
subject, my dear Felix, which frequently
engages my attention. Certainly, as you
say, it does not do to generalize too confidently
on it, and yet my experience is by
no means small."

Felix, with the shadowy smile in his eyes,
through which a little harmless mace
shone, was calmly digging his plot, and she,,
comfortably perched on a large flower-pot
turned upside down, was looking at him
with her head on one side.

"What do you think?" she inquired;
and what does Amias think ? "

"About what?" Amias not unnaturally
inquired.

Sarah was too deep in thought to give
him a direct answer.

She said, " I've got a new gardener, called
David. Yes. Now, we can hardly suppose
that Providence interferes, when a child is
named David, to change the colour of his
hair if it was going to be black ; but it is a
remarkable fact, that you will find a man of
the name of David always has sandy hair,
or, at any rate, light hair."

''So he has," said Felix, calmly. 'sit
cannot be denied. But don't you think it
may be because David is almost always a
Scotchman ? They almost always have light
hair."

' No," said Sarah. " But I think, as you
said, that one can hardly dogmatize about
it ; it's a mysterious subject."

''He is always a Scotchman," persisted
Pelix; " and if he isn't, he ought to be."

"But that," continued Sarah, "is only
one out of hundreds of names. Does it
result from the eternal fitness of things,
that a woman named Fanny (always in a

book, and generally in real life) is frivolous ?
Did you ever meet with a ponderous, or a
managing, or a learned Fanny ? All literature
shows what Fanny is ! In fact, I believe
it is the observation of this which
causes people not to use the name half so
much as they used to do. Then, again,
some names are quite gone out, because it
has been observed that the girls who had
them always became old maids  Miss
Grizzle, for instance. Griselda was once
a favourite name  Miss Penelope, Miss
Rebecca, Miss Habita."

Felix made no reply, good or bad, to this
speech, though he seemed to derive a certain
satisfaction from it.

' I wouldn't call a son Lionel on any
account," she continued, sunless I wished
him to go into the army ; nor Eobert, if I
objected to his taking holy orders ; nor
Godfrey, unless I knew beforehand that he
would be fat, and nothing I could do could

prevent it; nor Gilbert, if I wished him
to pay his debts."

' I don't think there is so much in it as
you suppose' said Amias, as gravely as
Felix might have done.

'But that," answered Sarah, is because
sou have not sufficiently gone into the
matter. Yes; we cannot expect to understand
everything in this world, nor how
things act upon one another."

'I can understand," said Amias, "that
a man's name, if he connected a certain
character with it, would act upon him ; but
I cannot understand that he would act upon
his name."

"But human knowledge is making great
strides," observed Sarah. "Look at the
things they have discovered in the microscope.
It takes some of these four generations
to come round again to themselves !
And yet they are atoms so small that if
garden worms were as much magnified in

proportion, they would reach from here to
London. I think, therefore  yes  that we
ought not to despair about finding out and
understanding anything, though at the same
time, as I have just said, we are not exactly
to expect it."

Amias found them at peace in the rectory,
and he left them at peace. There was a
certain air of leisure about them all. When
JolHffe picked the peas, she took her time
over them, and strolled up to the lean hed,
before she went in, to ascertain if they were
coming on, which they did, also at their
leisure ; while, perhaps, Felix, at his leisure,
was proceeding into the church, to be ready
for some rustic bridal.

Amias spent three weeks with his brother,
partook of his victuals," and also of this
leisure, which he found extremely sweet.
When he departed, he thought he would
come again very soon, and so felt a very
bearable pang at parting.

VOL. II. L

But he did not come soon ; it fell in his
way to write some articles in a magazine,
which brought him into sudden notice.

The youth who had with such extreme
difficulty paid his tailor's bill, and eked out
his means of living by the sale of an old
necklace, began to find himself in easy circumstances.
He was somebody, and he had
the unusual good fortune to be very soon
** looked up " by another somebody, and
offered an appointment which kept his
powers almost always on the stretch and
his mind always improving; for, besides
research, it demanded of him a great deal
of travelling.

In the mean time Dick did well at school.
Sir Samuel mellowed and improved, Felix
almost stood still, and Amabel and Delia
grew to be prettier than ever; but Mrs.
Snaith, just as the former reached the age
of sixteen, fell sick, and was all at once in
low spirits without apparent cause. She

had a startled and nervous way that surprised
all about her ; did not like to go out-of-doors,
and, when alone, was often found
shedding tears.

What is it, Mrs. Snaith, darling''
asked Delia when, one day coming into the
room still called the nursery, she found
Mrs. Snaith standing there, and hastily
folding a newspaper and putting it in her
pocket. 'what is that publishing Suffolk;
Chronicle to you ? "

'who told you it was the Stiff olh Chronicle,
Miss Delia, dear? "

Sarah had long ago hinted to Mrs. Snaith
that she would do well to add the " Miss "
to Delia's name. She had always called
Amabel " missy " from her birth.

Why, I saw it, Mamsey."

Delia was fourteen. Both the girls took
after their mother in height, though the poor
cobbler had given them his beautiful face.

Delia approached Mrs. Snaith with her

arms wide open, and calmly wrapped them
completely round her.

' I do think they grow longer every day,"
she observed of the said arms.

Mrs. Snaith was trembling ; Della's cheek
was laid against hers, with a certain moderation
of unimpassioned tenderness.

The mother stood perfectly still, but a
few heart-sick tears fell down her face.
She was consoled by the quiet closeness
of Delia's embrace, and in a minute or two
she released one hand, and, wiping them
away, said, 'but I must finish the ironing
now, my beauty bright, else your frills and
laces won't be ready for Sunday."

Delia kissed her, and, withdrawing a
little, looked at her. 'you don't get
enough air," she said  "always moping in
this room. When we were little, you used
to iron sometimes out of doors, under the
walnut trees. Oh, Mamsey, do it now ! "

"I fare to think it would fatigue me to
carry out the things now."

'Dick shall can them," exclaimed
Delia, and she ran out of the room.

She "was unusually tall for her age, nearly
of the average height already. Her face
was dimpled, her hands were dimpled ; the
whole young growing creature was supple
and soft. She had a mischievous delight
in teasing Dick and reigning over him, but
no one living was so fond of him. Sometimes
when with Dick she tried to remember
that she was ' getting quite old," but with
Pelix she was still as playful as a kitten.

'what time does Mr. Amias come?"
asked Mrs. Snaith, when, with more commotion
than was needed, Dick and Delia
had brought out the ironing table, and
covered it with a blanket and a white
cloth. They set it and some chairs under
the great spreading walnut trees, in the
little yard paved with coggle-stones, which
was divided from the garden by a long, low
rockery.

'' What time ? " repeated Amabel. ' Well,
there is no train till five, and Coz is going
to wait at the station for him till he
comes. Coz is gone to the rmi-diaconal
meeting."

I suppose we must make ourselves fit
to be seen," said Delia. "No doubt he
thinks he is a great gentleman now."

"Fit to be seen!" exclaimed Dick.
"Why, these are the most stunning frocks
you ever had."

The girls were dressed in white, and had
some blue ribbons about them ; but Delia's
frock was crumpled. She looked like a
tall, overgrown child; her long locks were
carelessly tied back with a blue ribbon, and
her delicate cheeks were slightly flushed
with exercise. Amabel, on the other hand,
looked fair and quiet in the lovely shade
of afternoon; her ribbons were fresh, her
frock clean. Excepting when she talked
or smiled, she had still the wistful look of

her cMldliood. Delia had it even at this
moment. She and Dick had brought out
each an iron. Mamsey was telling them
where these were to be placed, and while
Dick obeyed, Delia slowly approached, hers
close to Dick's ear. He naturally started
back, and she, as if she had only been
making a quiet experiment necessary for
the occasion, set it down and ran off for
something more, he after her.

But Mamsey, for whom all these preparations
had been made, had hardly begun her
work, when she became so tired and faint,
that she was obliged to sit down, and soit
came to pass that Amabel and Delia
insisted on setting up as irons on their
own account, and there ensued a great
sprinkling of lace and muslin. Dick got
a sprinkling also, to make him grow, and
was sent continually backward and forward
to the kitchen to bring the irons, to bring
tea for them and for Mrs. Snaith, and to
brings more chairs.

'none of them will ever be happier,"
thought the poor mother, as she gazed at
her two young queens, trying their fair
hands at the ironing-board, clapping the
lace between their palms as they had seen
her do, and making Dick feel the Italian-iron
with his great brown hand, lest it
should be too hot for them when they
pinched up the frills and set them daintily
upon it.

In the golden shade of afternoon their
light-hearted sweetness consoled and soothed
her. She was weary of thinking on one only
subject, and repeating over certain words,
which at first reading them had almost
crushed her ; but now she escaped to a little
welcome rest, while Amabel ironed and
laughed, and Delia flitted about, offering a
great deal of advice and not doing much,
though Dick contrived to give himself the
air of one diligently helping her.

Chapter VII.

And so it fell out, in the very crisis of the
ironing, at a quarter before eye of the clock,
just as Amabel held up delicately a long
piece of lace, which, to the deep interest of
Dick and Delia, she had managed to finish
without either crumpling or scorching, two
gentlemen came round from the front of the
house  Felix and another.

It was a still, hot afternoon, but the
ironing-table was well within the golden
shade of the walnut trees. Mrs. Snaith, in
her black alpaca gown, made a due foil in
the picture for two fair creatures, busy and
important. So did Dick, for, fine boy ashe
was, he had in some small degree that

awkwardness, that nearly loftiness, which
often afflicts the youthful man when his
legs and arms have grown almost out of his
own knowledge, and when, having become
suddenly somewhat ponderous, he frequently
finds his movements making more noise
than he intended.

Dick was inclined to be shy and shamefaced
about himself when the girls teased
him. It seemed a shame that he should
grow so big, when Amabel would ask him
for one of his gloves to carry aloft on a
stick, as a sufficient parasol ; or when Delia
would remark that his shoes, when he had
grown out of them, should be presented to
the little seaside place often mentioned
here, that a grateful country, sinking them
in the sand, might use them as dry docks-for
the fishing smacks.

And yet the joy and glory of being with
these two girls was already enough to draw
him away from the football and cricket, the

rowing and running, which, when at school,
he dehghteci in.

So Amabel was holding up the lace when
Amias, coming round a corner, first saw
with his eyes that there were two young
ladies in the garden, and then perceived
with his intelligence that they must be
Amabel and Delia.

He looked at Felix with a flash of surprise.
Amabel was such a fair young creature,
and Felix had all these years, in his
letters, or during his visits to London,
never said or written anything about her
which appeared to show that he knew she
was beautiful, or even that he was aware
she was fast growing up.

The brothers advanced. Mrs. Snaith
rose and stood in her place. Delia ran
forward and kissed Felix, and Amabel,
serene, not surprised, moved only a step or
two towards them.

Felix had been away two nights. She

also kissed him, as an accustomed and not,
as it seemed, specially interesting ceremony
to either party.

Amias was absolutely startled, so that a
fine red hue showed itself through the
brown of his cheek. How would she greet
Mm .

In a manner that quite satisfied him.
He raised his hat ; and she quietly, as
though she took a certain number of moments
that could be counted to do it in,
looked at him with sweet and modest
interest, as if she might have been thinking
about him beforehand, and then she held
out her pretty hand and smiled.

Amias felt for the moment almost as shy
as Dick, who, called by Felix, now came
blundering up ; and the brothers laughing,
and each surprised at the appearance of the
other, shook hands with hearty pleasure ;
one thinking, '' I did not know he was a
swell," and the other, This fellow will

be six feet liii before he has donec



'We did not think you would be so
early," said Amabel.

'We could not have been," answered
Felix, 4f we had stopped at this station.
We met two stations off, and there Amias
hired a fly. He wanted to see the country,
and drive through the park."

* You might have met Uncle Sam," said
Dick; 'he has been here to give Amabel
her riding lesson."

' Coz," said Delia, pouting, ' isn't it
unfair that he never adds me ? I can never
ride."

 There's the donkey," answered Felix,
smiling and gently lifting Delia's face, by
putting his hand under her chin. She was-manifestly
the favourite.

'but he won't go!" exclaimed Delia
throwing such tragic tones into her voice
and such needless pathos into her face, as

seemed to show that she had nothing more
important to use up her feelings for. " Oh,
Coz, you did say that some day you would
hire a pony, and that I should go out riding
with you."

* We'll see about it," said Felix, basely
putting off this desired event to some
perfectly indefinite date.

Delia sighed, and Mrs. Snaith now beginning
to put the ironed lace, etc., into two
light baskets, each of the girls took one and
went in with it, she and Dick following with
the chairs.

Amias stood a moment surprised, and yet
he had known the girls were still with his
brother. What could he have expected?
He roused himself, went into the church
with Felix, and was shown a lectern that
' old Sam" had given. Sir Samuel appeared
to play a much larger part than
formerly in the life of the rectory. Then
he went into the garden and all over the

premises. He asked no questions about
the girls, but lie thought the position
of Felix as their guardian began to be
decidedly curious.

He did not see them again that night;
they had dined early, and they did not
appear till the next morning, about half
an hour before service time. To say that
they looked fairer, fi-esher, and more graceful
than ever, would not half explain the
complicated impressions they made on him.
They also both appeared more childlike
than before, though Amabel, as befitted her
age, was mindful of the presence of an
almost strange gentleman; while Delia, regarding
him as the brother of Felix (who
was quite an elderly man), made no difference
in her usual style of talk because of
him.

' I want my sermon-case," said Felix.

'Then Delia shall fetch it. Do, Dea,"
began Amabel, persuasively.

Felix was seated on the sofa, already in
his cassock. Delia, beside him, had put her
arm through his. He was reading his sermon
over, and took no notice of the girls.

Amabel was moving across the middle
of the room, putting on her gloves. As she
buttoned one, she turned her head slightly
over her shoulder. She was manifestly
observing how her train followed her, and
how her sash floated after.

Felix, having finished his reading, looked
up, and, as if supposing that he had not
been heard, told DeHa again that he wanted
his case.

But Amabel will get my place if I fetch
it," said DeHa; 'rand it really is my turn
to walk with you to church."

'you walked with Coz on Wednesday,"
answered Amabel.

"But that," said the unreasonable child,
"was a saint's day, and I don't consider
that it counts."

* Fetch the case, goosey," answered FeHx.
 I remember that it is your turn."

All this time Amias, standing on the rug,
amused himself with looking on, and none
of them took any particular notice of him.

Delia, now satisfied, started up with a
laugh of loving mace at Amabel, and
presently brought in the sermon-case ; then
turning her head, much as Amabel had
done, "Look at our new frocks, Coz," she
exclaimed  " our frocks that Cousin Sarah
gave us ; don't they look sweet ? "

*your new frocks?" repeated Felix,
turning with no particular intelligence in his
glance. "Oh  ah  new, are they ? Well,
they seem to fit well enough, as far as I can
see;" then he added, like a good parson
as he was, " But I wish, when you have
new habiliments, that they were not always
put on first on a Sunday; they take your
minds off from attending to the service."

Then he began to talk to Amias, but at

VOL. II. M

the first pause, ' Shall we change them,
Coz ? " asked Amabel, with obedient
sweetness.

' No, no," he answered ;  no occasion for
that."

That such a celestial vision should be
desirous of pleasing the *' old man," appeared
quite ridiculous.

sand she gave us om new hats too,"
observed Delia. 'look, Coz. She never
gave us such a handsome present before."

These hats were white, and, as Amias remarked,
semi-transparent. Feathers drooped
over one side. Amias, as he looked, felt
quite abashed. How could milliners have the
conscience to concoct such beautiful things
for creatures more than distracting enough
already ?

'' She brought them from London," said
Delia.

It was manifest that it was their array,
and not themselves, that the two girls were

admiring. One of them was almost a child,
and the other almost a woman, but Amias
hardly knew yet which he liked best, and
he supposed that the new hats must be the
cause of their attractiveness. He found
Amabel so lovely as hardly to be able
to look at her, and yet he admitted to
himself that her beauty was not in her
features so much as in the pui'e fairness
of her complexion, in the dark lashes that
half shaded her pensive blue eyes, and in
the slow sweetness of the smile which
would adorn her face with such bewitching-dimples.
It was her hat, it was her
feathers, which gave that distinguished air
to her head. So he thought ; for he could
not escape from thinking of her, being the
slave for the moment of every pretty girl.
Good young men generally are.

So they all went to church, family and
servants, excepting Mrs. Snaith, who was
left to take care of the house and attend

to the early dinner. She had little to do
hut to prepare some vegetables. The large
joint was cold; the custards and the fruit
tarts were already made. She got on pretty
well at first, in the clean, sunny kitchen.
Her lips never trembled so long as there
was anything to be done, but when she had
also laid the cloth in the dining-room, and
was returning to the nursery, a sudden pang
overtook her, and she stood still as she had
done the previous day, and wept.

She stood a few minutes, sobbing and
shedding heart-sick tears, before she could
rouse herself; then she went into the
nursery, unlocked a drawer in her old-fashioned
bureau, which had been saved
from the fire, and took out the Buff oik
GliTonicle, to read for the fiftieth time the
miserable news it had conveyed to her.

' To her that have been looking out for
tidings from me this fourteen years and two
months and six days. I am that vexed to

be a misery to you, that are the niece of an
honest man and my good friend, that, if I
dared, I would leave this thing to take care
of itself; but 'tis best to write for your
sake. And, first, you will understand that,
if he that has a right to trouble you had
behaved himself better, you would have
had this news full four years ago; but for
several years he behaved very bad, and
so was kept in to the last moment that the
law allowed.

'And came up to where I am, and demanded
his wife and children and the
property; and I told him the children had
died, as I was very sorry indeed to hear
was the case soon after we parted. And he
pretended to be vexed, and said he were
a reformed character, and had the impudence
to offer to pray with me, along of my
not being in a good frame of mind, for I
had the gout in my hand, and was that put
out with him, that I was not particular in

my language. The end of it is, I am vexed'
to say, that he went to Bristol, the last
place, as he understood, where you were
heard of. And so no more, hut God keep
you, wherever you be, from a canting
hypocrite.  G."

Mamsey sat down in the ro eking ch air 
and thought over, as she had so often done
lately, the terms of this letter. Bristol was
north-west of the place where she dwelt,
and it was not on the same line of railway.
But oh, what a little place England is ! and
how could she be sure that no one whatever
knew of her whereabouts ?

The Christian names of her children were
so uncommon, that, in spite of her wretched
husband's belief that they were dead, he
would not hear them again, if he came near
her, without suspicion. What should she do
what should she do ? It seemed to her
unbearable misery to leave her darlings, but
it would be cruel indeed to expose them to

any risk. Her husband was at Bristol.
Should she fly to London and bury herself
there ?

She was yet thinking on this subject
when the family and Jolliffe came home
from church, and something to attend to
brought her a little welcome relief.

At the early dinner she waited at table,
and Amias noticed a kind of sweet and sad
dignity in her manner. "When she spoke,
she used the homely English of her native
town, Ipswich; but her movements had a
grace that he could not fail to acknowledge.

Not hurried, not inattentive, she yet appeared
to be dwelling in some inner world
while she went about her duties; and he
saw that, when she stood a few moments at
the sideboard, her eyes were examining the
two girls and Felix, almost as if she was
learning by heart their features and air. A
singular thing this, since she was so familiar
with them. And a singular thing, too, that

a guest should occupy himself so much with
the servant ; but he perfectly observed that
he was not alone in being so occupied.

There is no dignity so touching and so
telling, as that of those who have renounced
all. They expect nothing of any man, that
they should excite themselves in order to
please him. They cannot be patronized,
for no one has anything to give that they
care to take. Mrs. Snaith was doing her
best, and the words  Here we have no continuing
city " were present to her thoughts ;
but she had wept her last tears over the
news, and there had come over her mind
a great calm.

She had never looked better. Her cheeks
were still slightly flushed, after her weeping
fit ; her brown eyes looked more moist than
usual, and had a more tender lustre from
the same cause. Did she know that Felix
looked at her from time to time? Amias
could not be sure, but he felt that there was

something unusual about her, and he wondered
what it was.

She had no sooner withdrawn after dinner,
having set fruit and wine on the table, than
Felix said to Amabel, ' Mamsey looks a
little better to-day."

' She said she had slept better, Coz,"
answered Amabel; 'and Mr. Brown says
there is nothing the matter with her, if she
could but think so." Poor unconscious
daughter !

Mr. Brown was the doctor.

' Yes," observed Delia,  I heard him tell
her that she really must rouse herself. He
said he had never met with a person more
free from all disease, or one with a finer
frame."

 Nothing could be more opportune than
our going to the sea just now," observed
Felix. ''I dare say the change will bring
her round. We all want a change now and
then."

'rand Cousin Amias says lie will take his
out fishing," said Delia.

Dick was immediately devoured with
jealousy.

Amias listened to all this with something
like jealousy also. Here was Felix, his
nearest relation, far more important to him
than any other person living. And this parsonage,
rather bare, rather shabby, and quite
out of the world, was still his home ; but of
what importance was he in it ? Felix was
more interested in these two girls, who were
always with him, than in his brother. Why,
even a servant who made his life comfortable,
was probably more interesting !

Was this inevitable ? Perhaps it was : and
if so, he would not grumble at Felix, but he
would come more frequently to see them
all ; he would make himself of more consequence
to Felix.

Felix had a great respect for this half-educated
woman; her sweet humility

touched him. He never asked her any
questions, but her evident love for Amabel
and Delia made him feel sure that her
unhappy marriage had brought her children
and she had lost them. As years had gone
on, he had more and more left her and
JolHffe to arrange all household matters as
they pleased. No man could well be less
master of his house and his belongings, but
all was so well done for him that he scarcely
knew it. And now Mrs. Snaith was ill  at
least, she appeared to think so  for she had
asked to see a doctor, and for some little
time had been very nervous, and sometimes
faint. This had changed the manner of
Felix. He had felt and expressed some
anxiety about her. After studiously preserving
a certain style of speech and
bearing towards her, he had unconsciously
changed it, and if any one about him had
been observant excepting Amias (which
was not the case), it would have been as

evident to all as it was to him. Felix felt
that hers was probably a sickness of the
heart, and that it had to do with the convict
husband; but he asked her no questions,
though he frequently felt what a gap she
would make in his household if she withdrew,
and how impossible it would be to
supply her place.

CHAPTEK Viii.

As Felix and his party left the church, on
Sunday morning, Sh Samuel de Berenger
had accosted them. His manner to Amias
had been extremely cordial, but though
Felix noticed this, Amias did not ; he had
become in some measure accustomed to
cordiality, and the ancient fracas between
him and his old great-uncle was of no consequence
to him now. He had an income
which was sufficient for his very simple
style of living ; he Heed his work, and
found time, when it was over, for a good
deal of public speaking, at religious, philanthropical,
and also political meetings.

Amias was a good deal altered; he was no

longer afraid as to what people would think
of him. At first his conduct had kept well in
front of his convictions ; and he had been
subject to intervals of misgiving and forlornness,
when these convictions, overcome
by times of apathy, or pulled back by arguments
on the other side, would appear to
recede and leave him all by himself in the
forefront of the battle, while he most wanted
them to back him.

But when the returning tide of conviction
came up again, it was all the stronger
for new knowledge and wider experience.
He had lived through his self-scorn, and the
scorn of other people, in the notion that he
must be a fanatic ; had said things that he
had smarted for afterwards, as suspecting
that they were ridiculous; and now, behold,
the very people in his little world who had
made most game of him, were quoting them
as familiarly true. They had only been a
nine-days' wonder, and while he was blushing

still for them on the tenth, they were
adopted by most of those who had not forgotten
them. As related to his religions
profession, an almost opposite course had
not the less brought him forward to the
open confession that he was a sincere
Christian.

How extremely hard it is for a young
man to make such an avowal! But he,
naturally most reticent and afraid of himself,
had notwithstanding lived such a life,
and aimed at so much that was good, that
he had fallen among those who, making an
open profession of religion, took for granted
a good deal concerning him that he had
hardly dared to believe himself; but when
he had once learned from some of them to
admit that " everij good gift cometh from
above," it was but a point of thankful
humility to acknowledge that he was under
heavenly guidance, and that once understood,
other things followed.

All Sunday Amias held to his notion that
his two child-beauties were lovely hy reason
of their array. On Monday morning he
saw case to change his opinion ; for, before
breakfast, he met Amabel in the garden ina
morning dress, made of some sort of pale-blue
cambric. She was bringing in a bunch
of blush roses to set on the breakfast table,
and she was holding up a very large rhubarb
leaf by way of parasol.

She looked prettier than ever. Amias
was alternately attracted and repelled. The
first feeling drew him to her side ; all nature
seemed to smile so on her sweetness. She
reminded him, in that secluded spot, of a
fair lily shaded by its own green leaf. And
then the second feeling came like a smart
box on the ear. He did not like to be so
suddenly overcome ; it was not in his plans ;
and he knew that, if he did not look out,
a very inconvenient sense of incompleteness
would soon lay hold upon him, and when

he left lier, his heart would be torn in two,
and the best half left behind him.

Now, what was the part of a wise man
in such a case ? Why, to" decide that he
would look out. So Amias felt, so he did
decide ; and, in pursuit of this resolution,
he went on and made the circuit of the
garden. But that caused no difference, of
course. Amabel, not being present, was
only the more there. She was everywhere.
The young growing things about him were
lovely, for they were like her. The old
steadfast trees were interesting, as in contrast
to her. And here was the donkey !
The very donkey was interesting, because
she often tried in vain to make him go.
Amias, having thought even this, burst out
laughing at himself, and felt that he, too,
was an ass.

Then he went in, and Delia was there.
He saw the girls meet, and wish each other
good morning with a kiss. After that came

VOL. II. N

family prayers, and then, during breakfast,
a long discussion between Dick and Delia
about the delights of going to the sea.
They talked a great deal of nonsense in the
prospect of this treat, and then Amabel
struck in, and she, too, had a childish joy
in the prospect. They argued with Felix
as to which of them must go inside and
which might go outside the coach that was
to take them part of the way. They were
almost petulant over his decision. Amias
listened, and felt as if he was now safe.
She was a child:  who falls in love with
a child ?

What packing there was that day !  what
condoling with the donkey, with the young
ducks, the dog, and even the cat, because
they were to be left behind ! ' Though
our cat is such a cold-hearted person,"
said Delia, 'that even if she knew she
would never see us again, she would not
leave off mousing for a single day." And

then what rapture they got out of their
anticipations of the boating and the bathing !
It was worth while, Amias thought, living
in a country parsonage for years to find
such joy at last in a simple change.

So the next morning they all set forth,
and even Mrs. Snaith was in good spirits.
She was refreshed by bustle, and glad to
feel that every throb of the engine took her
further from Bristol. She had suffered
much, and now counted the miles with
exultation till the party stopped at a station
where the coach met them, and she was
made, nothing loth, to take one of the
despised inside places, which assured her
the shade and seclusion that she loved.

She was manifestly better. She did not
now wait at table, and the two brothers
seldom saw her excepting when she attended
the girls to the shops or to the shore.

Tom de Berenger's three little girls were
established near at hand with their grandmother

and their governess. They were
tall for their years, very fair, and as playful
as Delia. No one but old Sir Samuel observed
any particular likeness between the
two families. He had several times pointed
it out, and had been pleased to see how
familiarly the three younger girls depended
on the two elder, and how they met with
the tolerant, easy affection of relatives.

FeHx and Amias were treated (much to
the vexation of the latter) more as uncles
and general dispensers of favours than ever.
But at the end of about a fortnight Amias
managed to effect a change. Amabel ceased
to carry home buckets of forlorn sea anemones,
left off grubbing in the cliffs for
fossil shells, and sometimes even wore her
best hat on week-days. On such occasions
Amias was always in attendance, and the
three little girls would be sent off to some
desirable place for finding cornelian and
amber, while Dick and Delia, who considered

it very dull work to saunter along
looking at the yachts and keeping their feet
dry, would soon fall back, the latter on pretence
of emptying the sand from her shoes.
After this they generally joined the little
girls, leading their revels and enjoying their
much more lively society.

Amias got on a great deal better when
they were gone. He taught Amabel various
things, some by word of mouth, some with
his eyes. She took a good deal of teaching,
but she mastered the lesson at last.

Amabel was not wasteful," she did not
*' cheapen paradise." When Amias had
taught her to blush, which she could do now
most beautifully, she seldom looked him in
the face while he talked, and so she blushed
the seldom. But her wakening life and
keener thought sometimes caused her almost
unbearable pain.

For Amias had twice gone away and
spoken at certain meetings some miles off.

He was sufficiently far from his old uncle's
neighbourhood to do this without violence
to his sense of propriety. England was
large enough for his speeches, and for all
the good influence he could hope to exert,
though he did keep his distance from the
old man's door. He had a decided affection
for him, and Amabel increased it by the
loving way in which she would speak of
him. In fact, Sir Samuel showed himself
at his best when he was in the company of
his so-called granddaughters. His natural
courtesy was never more agreeably shown
than towards the young ladies of his own
family. He taught Amabel to ride, himself
holding the leading-rein as she rode beside
him ; and once, when Delia had been found by
him in the schoolroom with fair blubbered
face," left at home by herself because of the
outrageous badness of her French exercise,
he set to work with the dictionary, and
puzzled his old head, together with her

young one, till the others came home from
their picnic, and the exercise could be
'* shown up " perfectly right.

How natural, if all had been as he thought
it was ; and how natural that the girls should
love him ! Mrs. Snaith often saw the evidences
of this love with a pang, but she
could do nothing, and she hoped that, asher
girls had enough to live upon, he would
not leave anything to them. He had never
held out any promise of the kind. If he
did, she felt that she must speak ; but she
put off the evil day, hoping it might never
rise.

Amabel had often heard of the opinions
that Amias took such pains to make known.
Sometimes she had read reports of his
speeches in the newspapers, read them
aloud to Sarah de Berenger, and heard that
lady's indignant comments upon them.

But these had caused her no pain. She
thought in her heart that Amias was right,

but she was never asked for her opinion, and
Amias was nothing to her. As for Sir Samuel,
it almost seemed to her imagination as if he
had never heard of such a thing as a temperance
lecture. Such things did not belong
to his world. This world, her world, and
that of Amias, had not hitherto come
together  each had been kept remote from
the other  and now she began to perceive
that they were all one and the same world,
after all.

And now  now that she knew Sir Samuel
was coming in a few days to see his granddaughters
and stay close by  now that some
of the local tradespeople had congratulated
' Coz," in her hearing, on his brother's
eloquence and zeal  now, in short, that
Amias had singled her out as the object
of his admiration, and had made her feel
that a man of his age was not so very old,
after all  now she felt a keen sense of discomfort,
when, having asked him what he

had said at these lectures, he would answer
and astonish her with the easy calm of his
conviction, when he would tell her how
he had tried to impress his audience with
the misery of the drunkard, and the sin
of the drunkard-maker.

' But all these people who keep the gin-palaces
that you consider so shocking,
I do not think you ought to call them
drunkard-makers," she observed once, when
he had been talking thus. " They make a
mistake, no doubt."

'what is the mistake?"

'' It may be that they think more such
places are needed than is really the case."

Amias had a more fervid nature than
his brother, and he seldom thought of
things in the abstract, but of the persons
who had to do with them.

*' But if it takes about thirty thousand
drunkards," he answered, '' to build up the
fortune of a great spirit-distiller, and give

a comfortable livelihood to the landlords
and families of all the gin-palaces and
pubic-houses where the liquor is sold,
ought that fortune to be built up, ought
those men who sell to live on the misery
of those who buy ? "

Thirty thousand drunkards !" exclaimed
Amabel  ' thirty thousand ! But they are
not obliged to drink unless they Hke.
Nobody makes them drink."

Yes, they are virtually made to drink
by constant temptation. The liquor is sold
out in such small doses, in such convenient
places, and for such trifling sums, that those
poor creatures who are inclined to drunkenness
are solicited to their ruin every time
they go out of doors. This does not give
them a fair chance. It ought not to be any
man's interest that they should get drunk."

' But it is perfectly lawful to distil
spirits," said Amabel, " and perfectly
lawful to keep those places for selling it

iu. If you  if yon could persuade all who
do either to give it up, others would instantly
start forward in their room, and why are
these more than other people to be above
the law?"

Something almost piteous in the tone
of her voice appeared to give it a penetrative
quality. Amias was startled, and
felt anew what a different thing it was to
hold certain opinions in mere theory, and
to hold them as against the wishes or
feelings of one beloved.

Disturbed almost to the point of wretchedness,
he walked awhile in silence beside
her. For a few unworthy moments it hardly
seemed worth while to live and not be in
harmony with her wishes. Love, and even
affection, is so extravagant, that there can
be no fanatic or even enthusiast living
who has not gone through this phase of
misery.

Amias said at last, " People are seldom

able to soar very high above what is
expected of them. It is a fatal thing,
therefore, not to be able to believe of any
man, of any body of men, that they are incapable
of living above the laws. I am
quite certain that there are thousands of
men in our own country at the present time,
who, if once convinced thafc they were doing
wrong, in that matter or any other, would
give up everything rather than continue
the wrong."

* Give up everything ! " exclaimed Amabel,
passing over the main point, and, girl-like,
commenting on one small point in it.
'' Surely you do not think people ought
never to have any strong drink at all ? "

' No, wee must have some."

'sand how much do you think would
be enough ? "

swell," said Amias, laughing, 'since
you ask me, I will say, at a guess, about
a fiftieth part of what is now consumed."

Amabel was silent for a moment ; then,
not answering his last speech, she remarked,
' And it always makes me uncomfortable to
hear you talk of ' the liquor traffic' I do
not like names that sound vulgar."

"It makes her uncomfortable," thought
Amias, "to hear me express myself in a
way she calls vulgar!" He paused, and
allowed himself silently to enjoy the pleasure
this admission gave him. He was so
happy, so lifted into the world of dreams,
that for at least five minutes he took no
notice of his fak companion  never looked
her way.

Then they came to the point where they
generally turned homeward. They both
turned now, and it was towards each other.
Her face was very slightly flushed, and a tear
had half stolen down her cheek. "Amabel,"
he said, and unconsciously held out his
hand. She put hers into it; but when
she tried to withdraw it, having wiped away

the stealing tear with her handkerchief, he
still held it, and she saw him leaning towards
her with eyes of yearning tenderness.

*what is the matter? What do yoii
want to say?" she exclaimed, with evident
discomfiture and her sweetest hush.

He answered, releasing her hand, " I only
wanted  I only meant to thank yoii."

Amabel wondered what for, and was very
glad when they met the remainder of their
party, and the discourse turned on a soldier-crab
that they had chased and captured,
and were now carrying home, tied up in a
blue veil.

CHAPTEK IX.

"Felix," exclaimed Miss de Berenger the
next morning, "the girls have been talking
to me about a rural entertainment to be
given on the race-course. Do you really
mean to take them to it ? "

"Oh yes, aunt ; why not ? It will bea
kind of picnic for people like us  only
the poor will be feasted. I shall like the
girls to hear Amias speak."

"I suppose it will have something to do
with temperance, then," said Sarah, in some
disgust. " I hardly know how it is that
there should always seem to be something
so second-rate in that subject. One cannot

be its advocate without making one's self
ridiculous."

* But on this occasion," said Felix,
"there will be several other ways open to
your choice, if you want to make yourself
ridiculous, aunt  jumping in sacks, for instance,
donkey races, athletic sports, etc."

"A person of my age is never athletic
enough to take part in such things," said
Sarah, in all good faith. "I consider that
it would be very unbecoming in me to
attempt to please the lower classes thus,
and to pretend that I like their amusements."


Felix, well as he knew his aunt, was
surprised into silence by this speech, and
she presently continued 

"You had better mind what you are
about, and not tamper with temperance
too much. Amabel is not at all happy.
My dear uncle will think it very hard if
her mind is poisoned in any way. Yes. She

tells me Amias said yesterday that unless
each one of the great brewers could be sure
of having thirty thousand men always perfectly
drunk for him  at their own expense
it would not be worth his while to brew
at all."

' That sounds rather a wild statement,"
observed Felix, dryly. 'I always distrust
round numbers."

 I am sure she said so."

'I should have thought forty thousand
was nearer the mark. But I don't wish to
be captious."

 Should you really? " said Sarah. 'well,
I have no doubt, if you could, you would
like to do what the Royal Society wished todo
to one of their comets (those scientific
things are so curious and interesting). I
read myself the other day in a lecture,
that though a comet is often several hundred
thousand miles long, yet such is its
tenuity, that you could easily double up

VOL. II.

the whole substance of it and squeeze it
into a pint pot  if you could only get hold
of it. But science, you know, has never
been able to get beyond the confines of
this world on account of there being no
atmosphere up there to breathe. So they
can't do it."

*rit would be better to say a quart pot,"
observed Felix ;  a pint seems so very
small."

sewell," said Sarah, I am not sure
about the exact size of the pot, but the
principle is the same. And I have no doubt
that you  and you too, Amias, though you
seem to think this a mere joke (Amias had
just entered the room)  you too would be
quite happy if all the spirits in England
could be concentrated and concentrated
over and over again till it could be got into
such a pot, and could then be solemnly sunk
into the depths of the channel."

' That would be a very bad place, if you

mean the Irish Channel," observed Amias,
'' because Ireland would certainly fish the
pot up again."

"You take things too literally," said
Sarah. 'sit is a great pity, Amias, to turn
all the most philanthropic aspirations into
mere jokes."

Perhaps Amias felt the truth of this
observation, for he made no rejoinder, even
when she had added 

"You would, of course, wish in such a
case that the sister island should agree
to fill a sister pot, and that the two should
roll together, in peace and love, at the
bottom of the ocean for evermore. Not
that I speak as a sympathizer, but my heart
and mind, I am thankful to say, are large
enough  yes  to show me what I should
wish if I were one."

"You will go, aunt, of course?" said
Felix.

No, I shall not ; it would be very inconsistent

in me to fly in the face of my own
people."

How little the joyous party setting forth
to the race-comes supposed that the trifling
events of this drive were to he hoarded
lip in memory ever after ! There were five
miles between flowery hedges, then there
was the scent of trodden grass, and of many
a posy of pinks and southernwood worn
in rustic mutton-holes ; there were rows of
carts and farmers' phaetons drawn up for
the owners to sit in, while the horses were
picketed at a distance. The very shape
of the clouds that floated over cut themselves
into memory as the background of
a picture whose moving scenes could
never be forgotten.

Mrs. Snaith had not heard much beforehand
concerning this fete ; it was only when
she found that Mr. de Berenger was giving
over the girls to her charge, and having
the shawls arranged for them on a sloping

gi-ass bank, close to what was called ' the
grand stand," that she knew there was
anything more to listen to than a rustic
band of wind-instruments.

And now here they were, close to the
side of the grand stand, which was draped
and bedizened with banners brought from
the great house whose owners where the
chief givers of the fete.

Then Mrs. Snaitli understood that several
gentlemen were going to speak ; but she
only saw the one who stood forward, Amias,
and the moment he began, her motherly
heart felt that Amabel, sitting beside her,
was agitated, was blushing and in utter
discomfiture.

It was so obvious, that she actually
trembled lest some one who knew her
daring should perceive it. Oh, could it
be that her chief treasure had ahead
taken leave of the peace of childhood, and
was entering on the restless, useless, seK-

scrutinies of an unrequited affection ? Mrs
Snaith thought of Amias as rather a great
gentleman, quite out of her darling's reach ;
and when the lovely face drooped a little
in spite of its listening attitude, and the
fair cheek covered itself with a soft carnation,
the tender mother felt so keenly and
painfully for the child's shy sensitiveness,
that she could hardly look up herself. And
yet she did, and just at the right moment ;
as people generally do when some one whom
they know well is passing near.

A gentleman on horseback was coming
up very leisurely towards the hack of the
grand stand. Mrs. Snaith's heart seemed
for a moment to stand still as she saw him
Sir Samuel de Berenger ! He was moving
carefully and quietly among the closing
groups of people. He was close ; he passed
right in front of Mrs. Snaith and her charge,
hut he did not appear to see them. heroine
up his horse only a few feet in

advance, among a group of farmers also on
horseback, and only just far enough, back
to be unseen by Amias. Amabel had evidently
been listening for him as well as
for herself. Her mother saw it, and it only
added to her discomfiture to be sure that
he had his part also in that complicated
state of feeling that made her look so
abashed ; it was for his sake as well as for
her own that she had blushed. She had
seen his approach, and what was he now
listening to ?

'sand as for you," were the first words
that reached his ears  'for there must be
some such here  as for you who know the
bitterness of a thraldom that you cannot
escape, though it be ruining you body and
soul  as for you whom the law has left, and
leaves still, to the mercy of the lawless,
the tender mercy of those who reach their
greatness through your debasement, and
build their houses out of your despair  you

whose misery is the heaviest of all needless
sorrows that weigh down the heart of the
world  do not think you are come hereto
listen to any reproof. The movements
of a pity that can dare to spend itself,
sinking at the feet of your misfortune, is
far too deep for words ; hut during your
intervals of reprieve, when you think with
ruth on the children whom you love, and
the wife whom, with them, you are dragging
down, consider  and relieve your hearts a
little so  consider whether you have nothing
in your power that will aid to keep them
out of the slough into which your feet have
slipped. Have you nothing ? Oh yes ; you
all have a certain influence, and some of
you have  a vote.

'I have known many of the most unfortunate
among your ranks who have used
this influence well. I have heard miserable
fathers entreat their children to abstain, and
point to their own deplored example to

give force to their 'ords ; but I seldom
hear them go to the root of the matter,
as I want to do now, when I say to yon,
never vote a brewer into parliament, however
high this character may stand; never
vote a brewer's son into parliament, however
great his talents may be ; never, whatever
may be his politics, vote in any man
who has the least interest in keeping up
the profits of that hateful liquor traffic,
which is the ruin of these two fairest islands
of the world. Never give them your influence
by so much even as silence  never,
never. "What can they give jjou that shall
console for what they take ? They stand
between you and comfort, they stand between
you and duty, they stand between
you and honour, they stand between you
and God.

sand we must be helpless, we shall be
helpless, there can be no good legislature 
nothing can ever be done to chain this

monster, intemperance  so long as such a
body of our legislators draw their revenues
from it, and spend their strength in keeping
it free."

Dick was sitting beside Delia, and so far
from sharing Amabel's shyness and discomfort,
these two were both highly amused
in watching Sir Samuel, who, with a half-smile
and an air of wonder, sat listening and
keeping just out of sight of Amias. ' Why
doesn't he get a little forwarder?" whispered
Dick. I wish he would; and I wish I
might see Amias start. But nothing worth
mentioning ever does happen in this world
There's nothing for a fellow to see."

*rand nothing to hear," echoed Delia
*dick, I do hate temperance."

Still the fair face drooped, and the old
great-uncle, on his horse, sat still and
appeared to listen. Now and again he casta
furtive glance about him, and was pleased
to find no one in his field of vision that he

knew; but now it was evident that Amias
had finished his short speech, and that it
was only an introductory one for what was
to follow.

' There, there he is a-coming forward!"
exclaimed a man close at hand ; '' that's the
inspired cobbler.' Give him. a cheer, boys ;
give him a cheer."

Some one was moving out as the other
horsemen jn-essed a little forwarder, and Sir
Samuel de Berenger, not betraying by his
countenance either anger or discomfiture,
passed just in front of his so-called granddaughters,
lifted his hat as he did so, and
smiled. At the same instant a fresh speaker
came forward, and, clear over the heads
of the people, rang the voice of Amias  

' Mr. Uzziah Dill will now address the
assembly."

Yes, Mr. Uzziah Dill. Hannah Dill lifted
up her eyes, and saw her husband. She
looked on, and in that instant, during

which her daunted heart held itself hack
from beating, she heard the 
sound of his foot as the lame man
came slowly to the front. She saw the
beautiful, pensive face turned with its side
toward her, then a long ringing cheer of
welcome broke forth all around her, and
she heard a sharp cry close at hand : '' Mrs.
Snaith  Mamsey dear ! Oh, don't ! don't ! "

What was the meaning of this ?

She knew she was falling forward; her
face seemed almost on her knees, and her
children were powerless to hold her up.
She could not lift herself, and her husband's
voice, even at that pass, had power over
her. She heard its high, sweet tones, and
despaired; then came a suffocating sense
of breathlessness, and then oblivion.

People generally wake again from a dead
faint in a state of repose. Mrs. Snaith was
no exception to this rule. She opened her
eyes, felt very cold, heard a certain unintelligible

buzzing of voices about lier, then
regained ber full senses. Everything settled
down into its place, and bere were Amabel
and Dea kneeling, one on each side of ber.
Sbe was lying on the grass under a tent ;
Amabel was putting water on ber forehead,
and Delia was fanning ber.

Several kindly women were about ber.
They told the girls not to look frightened ;
they spoke to ber encouragingly. Sbe
could not at first answer, but sbe beard
them telling ber that a fainting fit was by
no means an uncommon thing. It was the
bot weather, they declared, wbicli bad overcome
ber  nothing more.

Sbe was quite herself now  able to think.
Sbe was so close to the back of the grand
stand that ber poor husband's voice was
faintly audible through the canvas folds of
the tent. She seemed, during the next few
minutes, to be more alive than sbe bad ever
been in ber life before, and, inter the

pressure of imminent peril, to be able to
make swift and thoughtful decisions. She
presently sat up and asked for her bonnet.

 How do you feel, ma'am?" inquired
-a sympathizer.

'I fare almost as well as usual," she
replied ; '' and that's a good thing, for it
was agreed that I should go home to my
master's rectory by the next train, to get
ready for the family, that is to return the
day after tomorrow."

She was very anxious that the strangers
present should know that what she wanted
to do was to carry out no new, but a prearranged
plan.

'you are not well enough yet, Mrs.
Snaith, dear," said Amabel. 'you shall
not go till you have had something to eat.
And look ! here is the luncheon-basket.
The kind people next to us brought it in."

Something like despair clutched at the
heart of the poor woman, but she knew

she must yield. The strangers ahoiit her
left the tent, and she and the guns took
some luncheon. She felt better for it ; hint
when Amabel said, ' There's another train
at night, Mrs. Snaith, dear; why not wait
for that?  you still look very pale," she
answered, ' No, miss, I can't stay here ;
and I ought to leave by the half-past four
train, if it's not gone, else I shall not be
in till midnight. Only," she added, looking
at Amabel and Delia with yearning love,
'when Mr. de Berenger went away among
the temperance gentlemen, he told me not
to leave you."

Dick, as might have been expected, had
taken himself off.

We shall go with you to the station,

then," said Amabel, ' and stay in the

waiting-room."

This is what Mrs. Snaith wanted; and

Amabel longed to get away from the

speeches. She had heard more than enough

already. Mrs. Snaith rose. It was a very
short distance to the station. She walked
between the two girls with a certain
lU'gency, but when they reached the line
it appeared that the train was gone. She
knew it would be. It was long past the
time for it. It had come in during her
fainting fit.

The station was the last place that she
meant to stay in. She took the girls to a
little wayside inn, the only house near at
hand. They were shown into a parlour
upstairs, which overlooked the course, and
there the poor mother spent an hour in
gazing out to see what would happen. Her
pallor, and the strange eagerness in her dark
eyes, struck the girls ; they felt that she was
still unwell, and therefore were the more
inclined to stay with her and watch over
her and the "bands of hope;" moving about
with banners, the freemasons parading with
their ornaments, and the different schools

seated in distinct groups, having tea and
cake under the auspices of their teachers,
sufficiently amused them. ' There's the
lame man speechifying to those unlucky
drum and fife boys," exclaimed Delia.
'how tired they must be of it all! Just
when the cans of tea and the great trays of
cake are ready ! Oh, how I should hate that
man if I were one of them ! "

The mother shivered when she heard this.
'how horrible that Delia should speak thus
of her own father! and oh, what a hypocrite
that father must be!" She felt her soul
revolt at him. She could hide herself from
him, but it was not perfectly impossible that
he might come up with Mr. de Berenger
and Amias, and hear the girls' names. She
almost hated him herself when she thought
of such a possibility, and yet she felt that, if
only that happened, there was nothing in it.
But she should have three days of dreadful
anxiety, for she should hear nothing till her

VOL. II. P

darlings came back to the rectory. She
should be hidden herself in the inn till he
was gone. The publican had told her that
all the holiday folk were to return at half-past
seven, in an excursion train expressly
provided for them. She hoped this would
be before the De Berengers came back to
the inn for their hired carriage. She herself
was to start at eight, and she bent all
her attention towards doing the best for
that one evening, and thought she would
leave the future to take care of itself.

The girls now, by her suggestion, ordered
some tea. something," she said, must
be done for the good of the house." When
it came up, she asked for a placard setting
forth what were to be the entertainments of
the day. She had passed several of these
on park palings and on the grand stand,
and had not cared to look at them.

The placard set forth that Mr. Dill, sometimes
called the 'inspired cobbler," was in

that neighbourhood, and had kindly promised
to turn aside and deliver one of his
thrilling addresses on the race-course ; that
it was hoped a good collection would be
made, to pay his expenses on this gratifying
occasion, when the elite of the neighbourhood
would be present, to countenance the
innocent pleasures, as well as to provide
good cheer for some of their poorer friends.
The inspired cobbler, as the placard informed
those whom it might concern, was
on his way to Southampton ; any contributions
intended for his benefit might be forwarded
by stamps or post-office order to an
address which was carefully given, and the
donors might rely on their being thankfully
received and duly acknowledged.

'' If I can only keep my darlings up here
till he is gone, poor man," thought the wife,
' there is the best of hope that we shall all
clean escape him."

'Ah, here comes the excursion train!"

exclaimed Delia. ' Look, Amabel. What
a crowd of people running up ! what bunches
of heather ! what baskets of flowers ! How
hot they all look ! There are the drum and
fife bands, and the lame man."

Mrs. Snaith sat absolutely still and listened.
She was far enough from the window
not to be seen from below.

'' How those boys screech at their fifes ! "
said Amabel. 'It almost splits my ears.
There's Coz and the lame man helping
them in. What a cram! Now the lame
man gets in too."

' Gets in, miss?" exclaimed Mrs. Snaith.
*' Are you sure ? "

'' Yes. And now they are off, and there is
our carriage."

Mrs. Snaith rose then, drew a long breath,
and looked at Amabel.

It's time for you to go down," she said.
*' Mr. de Berenger will be wondering what
has become of you."

' Mamsey, low earnestly yon look at
me ! " exclaimed Amabel.

sewell, we none of his know what may
happen," said the poor mother. ' Will yon
give me a kiss, my  dear."

Amabel kissed her almost carelessly.
They were to meet in two days ; why should
she think anything of such a parting ?

Mrs. Snaith preferred the same request
to Delia, who hung for a moment about her
neck with a certain attention of remark
which could hardly be called presentiment,
but yet that enabled her easily to recall this
kiss ever after, and the look in her old
nurse's eyes, and the beating of her heart
.as Delia leaned against her.

And then the two girls went down to join
Mr. de Berenger and Amias, Mrs. Snaith
sending a message down, *her duty, and
she would stay there till the right train
-came up, for it was much cooler in the
public-house than in the station." And then

she drew close to the window, and with a
sinking heart saw her darlings put into the
open carriage, and saw it set off, and saw
them wave their hands to her, and saw
them disappear among the trees and leave
her.

*she's gone," she then thought;  he's
away, poor man; and I did ought to feel
easy, for I've escaped, and my dears have
escaped. He's on his way to Southampton,
as sure as can he. "What is it, then, that
make me so full of fears ? "

She trembled and sat still on the bedside,
holding her throwing temples between her
hands ; hut gradually, as the evening drew
on, and the low lights gave even the little
shrubs of heather their lengthy shadows,
she grew stronger, and some time after sundown,
when all was peace in the deserted
little station, she came down and sat on the
bench outside it to wait for the train. She
was restless with a strange hopelessness 

and though she kept assuring herself that
her children were safe, she was shaken by
a dread, an almost certainty, that she was
breathing still the same air with that man
who had once been her other self.

'' Oh for the train ! " she murmured ;  oh
to set forth, and have this over ! "

It was very soon over. One man only was
waiting in the bare little room behind ; the
window was open within a foot of her head,
and he was leaning out. He coughed, and
with a start of irrepressible terror, she turned
round and faced him. All was lost. Uzziah
Dill recognized his wife, and Hannah Dill
her husband.

CHAPTEK X.

The husband and wife gazed at one another
for a moment without speaking; both seemed
to be subdued into stillness by wonder, and
one added terror to this feeling.

As Uzziah did not speak, his poor wife
felt the slender ghost of a hope that her
husband might not be certain of her
identity, and she turned as quietly as she
could, and had risen and moved towards
the station door, when he cried out after
her sharply and loudly, " Hannah ! "

She still advanced, taking no notice of
him. She did not dare to make haste, but
with a certain calmness of manner she
passed out and walked slowly upon the

grass, and went behind a bank among
the heather. She was thieving whether
she could throw herself down with any
hope of hiding, when the fatal sound of the
lame foot was behind her, and with a
feeling of desolation indescribable, she
walked on and on, just keeping out of
Uzziah's reach, but only just. She knew
not what to do, and all her senses were
sharpened. It seemed that they had come
to her aid ; but she questioned them, and
it was only to find that nothing could be
done  nothing. A great white moon had
just heaved itself up. She was keeping the
lurid orange sunset well behind her, lest
its light should show her face ; but now
the light was purer in front, and she
turned down a little decline and still walked
slowly on.

Oh the bitterness of that hour ! She
still walked on, and the lame man toiled
after her, and said not a word. She had

come into a desolate cart-track which was
grassy, between the heath-covered banks
that rose high on either side. "What good
to go on any more ? All was lost. He had
power over her to prevent her escape. She
had felt that it was no use to run wildly
away, for she knew that in such a case
he had but to call and cry out after her,
and she must, she should, return. She
gave up hope, and sat down on the bank,
dropped her hands on her knees, and
awaited him without looking up.

The low moon was full on her face ; the
west had faded, and all was cool and dim.
When Uzziah saw her sit down, he stood
still for a moment, as if not wishing to
startle her; then he slowly advanced, wiping
his forehead, for the exertion of the walk
had been great to him, though she had been
little more than two miles.

The place was perfectly desolate and still
a good way from that portion of the

great common which had been set apart asa
race-course, and far from any road or field
or farm.

If Hannah Dill had meant to deny her
identity to her husband (but it did not
appear that she had), her act in retreating
thus must have made denial useless.
Uzziah Dill did not appear to intend
entering on that question. He came near
and sat down on the grassy bank, about
two feet from her. Her silence, her evident
despair, awed him, and he let her alone, as
if he meant to wait till she should speak.
And yet his whole soul was shaken by
surprise. That if they met she would claim
him, hang about him, and sorely interfere
with what he called his evangelistic work,
had been his fear ever since he had found
himself at liberty. She had loved him
deeply and faithfully ; it had not entered
into his calculations that such a state of
things could cease.

He took out this handkerchief and again
wiped his brow; then the urgent thought
found utterance. " I'm afraid, my poor
wife, you've acted very bad by me, else you
wouldn't be so fearful of seeing my face."

She had taken the money, and concealed
his children ; she felt for the moment that
this was reacting bad" by him. She did
not repent, of course, but she had nothing
to say for herself.

'If you've not been true to me "

he exclaimed almost passionately, and then
seemed to give himself a sudden check.

 True to you ! " she answered, turning
slowly towards him and quietly looking at
him from head to foot. 'I never gave ita
thought once, all these years, that I had
to be true to you, but I thank my God He
has always helped me to be true to myself."

The astonishment with which Uzziah
Dill heard these words came not merely
to contradict every recollection he had of

Ms wife, but to produce some few reflections
on Ibis own past conduct ; yet he presently
put these back, and in a characteristic
fashion still pressed his point.

'' We're all on us poor, vile sinners, and
have nothing to boast of."

eyes," she answered, 'I see what you
are at. Through the blessing of God it is
that I'm able to hold up my head with the
best of good wives, that are happy as I
have never been. I have no goodness of
my oTvTi before God, but I look to be
respected by men, because it's my due ; and
I don't answer like this because you were
my husband, but because, let him be
high or low, I should answer so to an'
man."

And then she broke down and burst into
heart-sick tears  remembered how she had
seen her darlings drive away, and wrung
her hands and sobbed. It was not from
any sense of consolation in his words, but

rather from revulsion of feeling, that she
checked lierseK when he said, 'hannah,
this is a very quiet hour, and I feel solemn
and nearer to our heavenly Father for it.
If I was to relate my experience to you and
how God has dealt with me, it might be
blessed to you, my poor wife, as it has been
to some others ; for though I may say with
the Apostle Paul, 'With me it is a very
small thing that I should be judged of you
or of man's judgment ' "

Mercy on us ! " exclaimed the poor
wife, interrupting him vehemently, and
shuddering with repulsion. "You're never
going to compare yourself, Uzziah, to the
Apostle Paul ? "

'why not?" he answered humbly, but
without hesitation. " I bless the Lord that
I am a sinner saved by grace ; and what
else was St. Paul?"

She was so shocked at this speech that
she broke forth into tears again, with '' Oh,

I'm a miserable creature ! I can't bear it !
This is worse  Torse than the loss of my
dears!"

 Hannah," he answered kindly, and with
something like authority in his manner,
*'I know you've had misfortunes, and that
I've been the cause of some. I know I've
many times drank myself mad, and then
abused you shameful, and I know (and
for aU 3'ou may think I did not care to
hear it, I did care) I was truly sorry when
Mr. Gordon told me sou had lost your
babes. I wish to speak like a Christian
man, that I could not call up such love
for them as a father ought to feel, but
I was sorry for you. I know right well
that, when you buried them, it was a very
bitter parting to you. Now, don't rend
yourself so Vvath sobbing; let the past be,
and, with the blessing of God, let us live
together in a better union for the future ;
and," he added, like a man who had never

known any keen affection all his life, 'sit's
a sad thing you should lament over them
still. Forget them  they're well off; and
they were hut little ones." He took off
his hat when he said 'they're well off,"
and looked up reverently.

Though his speech had been so cold,,
it was an advance on the past. Hannah
Dill acknowledged its moderation, saw
some contrition in it, and felt its truth;
hut the real parting had been so recent
and so different from what he supposed,,
that its bitterness overcame her again,,
and the tears ran down her cheeks.  Oh,
my children, my dears, my only ones ! "
she sobbed out, what is there for your
mother to remember but you?"

And he thought they were dead. This-was
eventually to prove a great help to her,
but at the moment it gave her a strange
dread for them, an almost superstitious.
fear ; as if, indeed, they were dead.

Her husband at this moment drew himself
a little nearer to her as he sat on the
bank, and she started away with instinctive
repulsion, whereupon, with a slightly
offended air, he retreated to his former
position, while she slowly, and without
making any effort one way or the other,
exhausted her emotion ; and the moon, now
dimmed by slightly veiling clouds, showed
her black figure to her husband as she sat
at the top of the bank, looking out over
the wide expanse of blossoming heather,
and sometimes clasping her hands as if she
was in prayer. He also sat perfectly still,
and in absolute silence. The balmy air,
that had been so sultry, was now cool and
refreshing, a few stars were out, owls were
skimming the tops of the heather, and some
rabbits dancing and darting about on a
dry green knoll. It was long before he
spoke, and then it was with suddenness
and decision.

VOL. II. n

Well, Hannah, it's past eleven o'clock.
We had better go to the inn, my dear."

An unwonted termination this, 'my
dear."

' Do as you please," she answered.  But,
Uzziah, we are not going together."

Not together ? " he exclaimed. '' You've
lost that money over the shoe business, and
you've hid yourself from me, and never
wrote to me once for years ; and I've met
you and not said one word; and if you'd
have come back and done your duty by me,
I never would have done, the Lord helping
]die,  I never would have reproached you
at all, but taken you back and made the
best of you, as I believe is right ; and now,
Hannah "

*eyes, and now," she repeated, *'I tell
you that I forgive the past. And this is
true, and so I'll say it, that if I chose this
moment to set off and get clean away from
you, I could, as you know well ; and if you

won't give me time to think out my
miserable duty, and consider whether I may
not truly have the blessed lot of leaving
you, or whether I must stay because God
wills it, why, I'll take the thing into my
own hands. I'll get away from you this
night, and risk the repenting of it afterwards."


He sat silent for several minutes ; then
he answered, almost with gentleness, ' Your
words cut me very sharp, Hannah; but
I don't see what I have to answer before
either God or you, but that I forgive
them."

Hannah Dill here felt an instinctive consciousness
of a change. When she moved
a very little further off, it was not from any
fear lest he should strike her. And she did
not strive to hide her feeling of repulsion
towards him when she replied,  I fare to
think you cannot know, Uzziah, that I
had the reading of that letter you sent

through Jacob fi'om your prison to Rosa
Stock''

"Eosa Stock?" he repeated, faintly.
' That was a long time ago."

Not so long but what I have got a copy
of the letter."

''I loved that woman," he exclaimed,,
passionately. " I had been her ruin, but
she never seemed to think of that ; and she-had
been my ruin, but that did not seem
to make it right I should leave her without
any comfort from me." Then his voice
sank, and he went on, " Oh, I have been
a miserable sinner ! "

"Ay," answered his wife, with pitiless
coldness; "but there's many a miserable
sinner that's no hypocrite. It's because
you're such a hypocrite that I fare to shiver
so while you're near me. I got your letter
to me after I had the money, and you'd
heard of it, and I've got every word of it
cut deep into my heart. You never asked

whether viy child was born, uor how I had
fared after yon turned me ont of doors ; bnt
yon Avi-ote to say (God forgive yon !) that
yon was a reformed character, and yon
wanted me to keep myself right for your
sake."

xly, I was a hypocrite," he answered 
I was." He flung np his hands as he spoke,
and she shrank hastily from him; bnt he
clasped them upon his forehead and groaned.
'Did yon think I would strike yon,
Hannah?" he exclaimed, as if such a
thought on his part was a most unnatural
and cruel one.

She was silent.

'* Yon have no case to be afraid of me,"
he continued; "and now I see how it is
that I cannot make the sweet offers of the
gospel to yon as I can to others. It's
because I have been so bad to yon. My
poor wife, I humbly ask your pardon ! "

''No, it's because yon make such high

talk of religion," she replied, 'that I feel
as I could not bear with you. It fared to
shock me so, to see you standing up  you
that used to get so drunk  and preach to
better folks that they were not to drink
at all. It fares to turn my blood cold to
hear you talk now of doing folks good with
your religious experience, and how the
blessed God deals with you, when the last
I knew of you showed that, if you dealt
with aught out of this world, it must have
been with the evil one."

'* Hannah, do you ever read the Bible ? "

'eyes, I read it every day, and pray to
God that I may understand it, and live
bit."

cc There's a thief you read of there that
mocked at our Lord while he hung a-dying.
He got forgiveness, didn't he ? "

Ay, but he died, Uzziah."

'but, if he had lived, do you think he
would have gone back to his wickedness ? "

*No, I don't."

* But you think there's no forgiveness fora
wretched thief now ; you think God cannot
forgive a miserable drunkard now ? "

'No, I don't think that, my poor husband;
God forbid!"

*you think it possible that the blessed
God might forgive  even me ? "

eyes, I do."

But what if He did, Hannah? How
should I order myself, if my sins were
forgiven ? ' '

' I expect you'd be very humble and
very broken-hearted, and quiet about it."

'And not tell other poor wretches that
were in the same misery and bondage
that there was forgiveness for them too ;
that Jesus Christ could save them too, and
would save them, if they would have Him ? "

It was past midnight now, and this last
appeal, which had been meant to be so
comforting and so convincing, was too

much for poor Hannah Dill. '0 God,
forgive me, if I want to do amiss ! " lie cried,
and gave way to an agony of tears. 'sit
does seem as if I couldn't stop with you 
I couldn't I couldn't."

'well, then," he answered, and rose and
took off his hat, '' let us pray."

She looked at him, and trembled; but
she sat still, and the lame man knelt down.
His wife could but just make out his figure,
for a small dark cloud had come over the
moon. She saw that he lifted up his hand,
and then she, trembling yet, listened, and
he began to pray, beginning with the
beautiful and pathetic collect 

' O God, who knowest us to be set in
the midst of so many and great dangers,
that by reason of the frailty of our nature
we cannot always stand upright; grant tous
such strength and protection, as may
support us in all dangers, and carry us
through all temptations ; through Jesus
Christ our Lord. Amen."

And then, after a pause, lie went on 
the sometime drunken cobbler, the hypocritical
convict, and bigamist, went on, withall
reverence and solemnity. 'rit is a
estrange thing, good Lord, that we have
to say to Thee. We are a miserable wife
and husband that did not wish to meet 
neither of us  and that was, maybe, wronging
Thy sight. I did try to find her at first,
good Lord, and when I could not, I thought
Thou hadst answered me, and I might serve
Thee as a man free from her. I could live
on so Httle, and her money I willingly gave
up. And how could she follow me, often
in hardship and hunger, when I go to speak
well of Thee and Thy loving kindness ?

'And she, good Lord, she has lost that
love she had for me, and that I did not
ware for, and she would fain go her ways.
Shall I let her go. Lord  may I let her go
in peace ?  for Thou seest it is left to Thee.
We met by Thy will, and we mustn't part

without Thy blessing. Oh, give us that,
and give it now !

So many times thou hast answered me,
but since the day when my sins were forgiven,
I have never been in such a strait
as I am now, and I want to talk with Thee
of her side of this matter. Look on her.
How hard it seems to come back ! Ay, it
would be a vast sight harder still, if she
could know all. Thou knowest all; I
poured it out to Thee. It was a base thing
to put into words. Maybe it went nigh
to break Thy heart when Thou wert here
that men should have such deeds to confess.
Maybe Thou knowest what it is to rue
even in Thy Father's bosom, the ways and
the wants of us that are to Thee so near
of kin. Lord Christ Jesus, that we
Thy brothers may be no more a disgrace to
Thee, pray to Thy Father to make us pure,
for Thy sake.

I beseech Thee, be content to have the

guiding of us, for we cannot guide ourselves.
We have great searching of heart,
but come Thou and sit between us in this
desolate place. Thou knowest what we
want  Thy blessing on our parting in peace.
But if we may not part thus, Thy blessing
that we may live together in peace. Give
it, most pitiful Master, and give it by
the dawning of the day ! "

When he had got thus far, the lame
man arose and went a little further, and
again knelt down, holding up his hands,
and still praying aloud, but far enough off
to plead with God inaudibly, as far as his
one human listener was concerned ; and
Hannah Dill felt then a little comfort in
her misery : he was not praying for effect,
and that she might hear him  at least, he
was not a hypocrite here.

The moon came out  she was near her
southing  and as she went down, Hannah
Dill saw her husband's face, and knew that

it was changed. A soft waft of summer
air came about her now and again, dropping
as if from the stars ; her husband's voice
came upon it, and died as it fell, and that
was changed; no such tones in it had
reached her ears of okL It went on and
on, and still it went on. At first it had
been almost a cry, a low, pleading cry ; but
afterwards, as she recalled the beginning,
she wondered at its gradual change. No
words to reach her, but yet now it was calm,
and almost satisfied. This long prayer was
more awful to her, in the solemn night, than
any of his speeches had been.

It frightened and subdued her, but she
would not speak, for while he was so occupied,
she was left to herself. She leaned
her elbows on her knees and propped her
face on her hands  her poor face, stained
with tears, and pale with long distress  but
just as her lulled emotion and fatigue between
them had brought her such quietness

as might have been succeeded by a dose,
the distant voice stopped, and she, missing
its monotonous murmur, started and was distressfully
awake again. It might be about
three o'clock, she thought ; the moon was
gone, and though two or three stars were
quivering in the sky, the restfulness of night
was almost over. The hills, she thought,
had taken rather a clearer outline towards
the east, and there was more air stirring
over the heads of the heather.

She saw her husband rise, and a thrill of
joy ran through her veins when she observed
that he did not mean to approach her. She
made out, in the dimness that comes just
before dawn, that he went slowly to a little
rise where the heather was thickest, and
that he laid himself down in ifc. She knew
he was a heavy sleeper, and that in a few
minutes he would sleep. Was she not alone ?
Could she not now steal away from him ?
No. Before the thought was fully formed,

she knew she could not. The sleeping man's
prayer had power over her; it seemed to
wake yet while he slept. And now that she
could feel herself retired from all human
eyes, she also arose and kneeled down, and
spread out her hands as if she would lay her
case before the Lord.

Not a word to say, not one word ; but a
thought in her mind like this : " It is not
because I cannot make my statement clear,
that God does not see and pity my case ; let
my God look upon me and decide, for whatever
it is to be, I consent." A long time
silent thus, even till the grass turned green
about her, and the birds began to wake 
even till the first streak of gold was lying
along the brink of the hill, and till the utter
peacefulness of the new dawn seemed to
make her aware that in her own mind was
also dawning a resignation that was almost
like peace. If all joy was gone, and all
comfort given up, at least they had been

stolen away gently, and, as it were, almost
with her own consent.  Thou knowest
that I cannot bear it," she said quietly.
'soh, bear it for me; take my burden on
Thyself!"

And almost as she spoke, she felt aware
that she had been helped  that all should
be right, and was right. Then she too rose
from her knees, and heard the lame man
approaching. She sat down on the bank,
and he sat beside her.

All the east was taking on its waxing
flush. She and her husband looked at it
together as they sat side by side. She
sighed twice ; its solemn splendour was so
great, and her heart had sunk so low, she
could hardly bear to look at it ; but at last
he spoke.

' Well, Hannah," he said, *' there's words
to be spoke now; and, my poor wife, it's
right you should begin."

Ay," she answered, faltering, and faint

from long emotion and want of rest, " I've
right to say that you must tell me what
has become of Eosa and her babe."

 Eosa Stock ? " he replied, solemnly.
"She's dead, Hannah  dead this seven
years; and her babe's dead too."

Naturally this information made a difference.
The poor wife sighed again. " But
I cannot live with him," she thought, "if
Tm to be always living in a lie.  You said
to God in the night," she went on, "that
I didn't know all."

"It's true, Hannah," he replied.

"And no more can you know all," she
replied. "What's done, was done for the
best. As for me, I want to know no more.
I'll ask no questions about anything, nor
never reproach you; and these words are
my vow and bond that I won't. But, in
return, you're never to ask me  never 
how I came to lose the money, and "

She paused so long, that he at last said

* If it's clean gone, and nothing I could do
could by possibility get it back, promise I do."

'sand my children," she began, melting
again into heart-sick tears. '' If I go along
nth you, you must promise me, on your
solemn word before God this hour, that
you'll never, never mention them to me ;
never, never let their names pass your lips
to me more."

He turned to her with a look of surprise.
She was quietly wiping away her tears. He
would have liked to comfort her; he even
began to reason with her. I should have
thought it might be a comfort to you, to
talk about their pretty ways, and their
deaths likewise."

*sit is not," she answered. *I fare to
believe that it's my duty to stay with you, if
you'll consider over this one thing that I
demand so solemnly, and promise it withall
your heart; but if you won't do that,
then let me go my ways."

VOL. II. R

After a short pause, he answered, '' Hannah,
I promise." And then she gave him
her hand, and he helped her to rise. And
they walked together in the early sunshine,
to get the refreshment they sorely needed,
at the little inn. Not a word or a look
passed between them ; one went with silent
exultation, and the other with silent tears.

Chapter XI.

UzziAH Dill and his wife were both sorely
fatigued when, in the rosy flush of a summer
morning, they reached the Httle inn. Its
windows were not yet opened, and they
sat on a bench outside, under a thickly
branched maple tree. Uzziah Dill was able
to observe and reflect. He noticed the
neatness and cleanliness of his wife's array.
She was one of those women who are far
more attractive in early middle life than in
youth. The lanky, gaunt figure had a fuller
and more gracious outline now ; the sometime
thin features and great, hungering eyes
were softer. It was a long time since any
man had struck her, or insulted her, or

scowled at her, and even after that night of
misery, her expression of countenance bore
witness to this fact. She was languid, very
weary, and very full of sorrow, but her fear
of him, as he had sense to see, was no fear
of a blow.

He thought she would soon *' come
round." She had loved him when he had
ill-treated her; surely her very jealousy
was a proof that, whatever she might say
she had not utterly ceased to love him
even now. And he meant to be so good ta
her, so  yes, even so loving to her. He
had not wished to meet with her  very far
from it  but here she was, and he found
himself exulting.

There was a pump close at hand, and
some sparkling, clear water lying inter it,.
in a wooden trough. Hannah Dill went toit,
and, taking off her bonnet, bathed her
aching eyes and brow. He watched her ;
approved in his very heart the 

plainness of lier dress ; saw her twist
up her long hair with interest, put on her
bonnet and shawl again, and come slowly
back.

He thought he would say something
encouraging and affectionate to her. He
would let her know that she had happiness
before her, and not misery ; but when she
came and sat down near him again, her
gentle patience, her hopeless eyes, that did
not look at him, seemed to steal his words
out of his mouth.

' Hannah," was all he managed to say,
' they are astir in the inn now ; I'd better
go in and tell them to get us some breakfast."


He seemed to wait her reply, and she said
listlessly,  As you will."

It had pleased God already to discipline
his base nature ; he had endured great fear,
had found himself to be vile. It had seemed
to himself, as he lay once in the prison in

solitary confinement, on account of his bad
language and coarse insubordination, it bad
seemed all on a sudden as if some evil spirit
drew near him in the dark and took his sins
by armsful and heaped them over him, and
he saw them as if they had bodily substance,
and there were so many that they
crushed him down. His first sensation was
more astonishment than even fear. All
these hateful things, excepting one or two
that always haunted him, had seemed to be
dead and gone, and now they were alive ;
not put away, but his, swarming about him,
part of himself. He struggled, he trembled,
he cried out. Then he thought he would
act a more manful part; he tried to fling
them off, he would not be so cowed. What
could he do by way of occupation? He
would recall all the songs he had been used
to sing, and sing them now. So he wiped
his forehead and began. But lo, it was a
quavering, craven voice that sang; it moaned

over the wicked words, it sank and choked
over the impure ones. There was no comfort
here. But something he must and
would do, or this stifling weight on his soul
would kill him. It was not that he repented,
it was hardly remorse that he felt ;
it was the mere presence always over and
about him of this load of wickedness, that
he knew to be his own wickedness, that
daunted him and made him so wretched.
Well, he would say over so many of his
school lessons as he could remember, he
would set himseK sums in his own mind,
he would go over the multiplication table.

The chaplain found him one day at this
weary work, trying to find some occupation
and some thoughts to stand between him
and his crimes. His sleep had departed, his
mind was clouded, he was willing for once
to speak, and seemed to think that no man
had ever suffered so before. *' I can't get
them away!" he exclaimed, tearing at his

breast. '' How should I ?  they are myself.
I shall die if they press me down so."

The chaplain had always felt a sort of
horror of him, he had been such a hypocrite,
he had done so much to corrupt some of the
other prisoners. He looked at him attentively,
supposing that this was only some
new piece of hypocrisy.

The Almighty has been hard upon me,"
he continued ; ' I am cast into hell before
my death."

*' No," answered the chaplain. " The
Almighty has been merciful to you, and
given you still your life to repent in."

*' I have tried to repent, and I cannot.
How should I get to repent ? " he answered.

' God, and God only, can give true repentance.
You must humbly ask Him to
give it to you." And then he looked doubtfully
at the prisoner, who seemed so restless
and so defiant, and so enraged. "Like a
wild bull in a net," he thought within
himself.

*sive tried as hard as ever I can todo
what you call repent," continued the
prisoner. ' But even if I could be sorry all
my days, here they are, these sins ; I could
not get away from them."

No," answered the chaplain; 'but you
have leave to take them and lay them at
the foot of the cross, the cross of Christ."

The prisoner answered, but not irreverently,
only with the dulness of despair,
' He would have nothing to do with such
as I am. And why should He ? "

' Why, indeed ! " answered the chaplain ;
' that is more than we know. But if you
can believe that God gave Him, and that
He was willing to be given, to take away
the sins of the world, you know enough."

'well, I've heard say so all my life,"
said the prisoner, "but that don't seem to
bring me any help. I'm down, that's what
I am  sunk in the pit  and I don't see any
hope, nor ease, nor daylight, nor way of
getting out."

*' And I cannot say so miicli as ' God help
you'" answered the chaplain; 'for God
offers you help only in that one way, and
if you will not have it, there is no help for
you in heaven or earth."

I've done a good many Hack deeds,"
reasoned the prisoner, ' as the good Lord
knows better than you do. If I could only
get them down and trample them under
my feet, I would kneel then and cry for
mercy."

'I tell you that trying to trample down
your crimes is of no use. Your character
is a part of yourself ; you cannot get away
from it, nor do away with them; but the
Saviour of mankind, if you will go to Him,
will not only forgive, but will release you
and relieve you of them, and take them on
Himself."

*then let Him," cried the prisoner,
flinging himself on the ground  " let Him ! "
he cried with vehemence, and almost with

rage. 'Let the good Lord have mercy on
my miserable soul ! I'm spent with misery,
I can do nothing in the world; but if He
did die to save such black sinners, and if He
can bear with those that cannot even bear
with themselves, and can get them free of
their sins, and make men of them again. He
never had a better chance than He has now.
I say it humbly to him, let the good Lord
try His hand on me''

In the choking accents both of rage and
despair, Uzziah Dill cried out thus as he
lay grovelling on the ground, and the young
chaplain, starting up, looked at him with
something like fear. The coarse nature and
the ungoverned passions of the man had
been taken hold of by a power too strong
for him to cope with, but his own words
rang in his ears now, and he laid upon the
floor silently, as if a great awe was upon
him.

The chaplain had nothing to say. A

great many convicts had professed repentance,
and most of them on release had
fallen away. He was about to kneel and
offer prayer, when the convict sat up,
and said in a scared voice, as if for the
first time conscious of that great Presence
in which we always dwell, " Those I
shouted up were impudent words. I had no
call to shout at all," he continued, looking
round. '' But I say again, the Lord, for
Christ's sake, have mercy on my sinful
soul ! " Then  strange comment indeed on
his own prayer  '' Now," he continued, still
with that look of awe, snow I've played
my last card."

The chaplain, feeling shocked both at the
mocked fellow's prayer and the violent way
in which he had acted, was soon out of his
cell. Uzziah Dill was asleep the next time
he came to visit him, and the second time
was so peaceful and quiet, as to appear more
than ever a hypocrite to those about him ;

but lie used no bad language, and was never
insubordinate any more.

So, it had pleased God already to discipline
his coarse nature. He had been cast into
prison for his crimes, and there they had
been shown to him as if pointed at by a
finger from above ; and then they had
fallen fi'om him, had been sunk, as it were,
in the depths of the sea. And after that
had come the discipline of contempt and long
suspicion. These lasted almost till the time
of his release  during all those years when
he had been earnestly trying to improve
himself, his intellect and all his powers
becoming stronger through long protection
from the constant tempting to drink, which
had been too much for his feeble nature
and weak constitution.

And now another discipline was preparing
for him, woven out of circumstances, and
from one of the commonest contradictions
that prevail in this contrary world.

He was not so obtuse that he did not
perceive his wife's misery, her almost loathing
of him. The love she had borne him
and which he had never cared for, and long
forgotten, flashed back on his remembrance
now. He seemed to have a right to it
now, and every half-hour assured him
that to be a good and loving husband to
her would be an easy task novo. And he
could not have it.

If G-od had forgiven him, why could not
she ? He longed to assure her how different
he now was, but his tongue was tied ; she
would not believe him. He remembered
with a pang the many good women that
had kindly and even proudly entertained
him after his temperance lectures, for his
works' sake ; " but the deep humility of
dawning love made him all too certain that
they did not know him as his wife did, they
did not know his past.

They ate and they drank together almost

in silence ; then, to the astonishment of
Hannah Dill, her husband talked humbly
and most piously to the landlady while she
cleared away. It was very early; and if
she and her family were not in the usual
habit of having family prayers, he would
be very glad to conduct it for them, for,
with apologetic gentleness, 'rit was indeed
so bright and early, that no interruption of
business was likely."

The landlady took the proposal well.
The poor wife felt that she could hardly
bear to hear him 'show off" before her;
but when Uzziah Dill was told that the inn
kitchen was ready for him, and that, beside
the household, two carriers, "very quiet
men," would be glad to join, he said, so as
not to be overheard, " Hannah, I seem to
feel as you would refer stay here, and I've
nothing to say against it."

"No, Uzziah," she answered, instantly
changing her mind, " I fare to think I had

better go in; " and she sighed and followed
him.

The poor ex-convict had a ready tongue
and he already knew his one Book well.
He read a psalm, and made a few devout
comments on it. His wife, in spite of
herself, thought his remarks almost a&
scholarly and fine as Mr. de Berenger's ;
and when he began to pray, and faltered
a good deal for all his earnestness, she
knew as well as if she had been told, that
it was her presence which took away his
self-possession. He desired her approval;
he wondered what she would think.

So, when they were alone in the little
parlour  for the parliamentary train was
not to pass till noon  she said to him,
* Uzziah, it is but right I should tell you
I'll never breathe to any soul your having
been in prison. Ill not interfere with your
speeches in that way."

"Thank you heartily," he answered;

but, Hannah, where I think it will do
good to tell it, I often have told it myself."


' Do good?" she exclaimed.  How
should it do good? Who is to listen if
you tell such a thing as that ? "

** Many a drunkard will listen," he
answered, 'if he finds that, through the
drink, I have been in a worse case than
he has. It's all the drink, Hannah, that
does for us. I never wished to do a thing
against the law till I was under the temptation
of it. When I had once done wrong,
I sneaked and was wishful to do better and
keep right till I was half drunk again ; then
the old wicked daring came, and made a
wild beast of me. It gave me courage and
cunning, too. I saw how to do the bad
thing, when my pulse was all alive with
that stimulus. But it was my natural way,
before I was a converted man, to be a
hypocrite. So I must watch most against

VOL. II. 8

that sin, and not make out that I've always
had a good character."

Then how do you get a Having ? Who
employs you ? " she inquired.

 Well, first place, I'm never called an
impostor, for I acknowledge that I'm low
down. In general, after I've spoke, there's
a little collection made for me ; and I have
my tools, so, if a brother or sister has any
shoes to mend, I mend them. Though I
say it, they're well done, and through that
I often get more custom. Or, so long as I
seem to be doing any good in a town, I take
a little journeyman's work, and so, what
with one thing and another, I bless the
Lord I have not wanted yet."

If there was anything ludicrous in this
speech, that was not the quality in it which
most struck his wife.

You live from hand to mouth, then ? "
she observed.

'*I did ought to do," he answered; 'but

I went to Mr. Gordon to look after you, and
he told me there was fifteen pound in hand,
and that I was to have thirty pound a year
so soon as I could claim it."

' Yes," she replied ; '' it were but right."

* Well, I took the fifteen, and it seemed
as if I was distrusting the Lord, and I could
not spend it, Hannah ; let alone your uncle
never meant his earnings to come into my
grip. I have given three pound of it away
to some of the Lord's poor, and to a man
that I got to take the pledge, and here is
the rest in my pocket. We shall go about
so cheap, Hannah  sometimes in a smack,
and sometimes in an excursion train or a
carrier's cart. That thirty pound a year
will keep you, with what little extra I can
earn."

We ? Then he expected to have her
always with him !

' But why should you feel any call to
go moving about ? " she repeated.

'* Because I'm a temperance lecturer.
But I have not the impudence to offer
myself to he paid by any society  none of
them would employ a man that had nota
good character. I do not preach. I
seem to think you'll be glad to hear that."

* You're not a Dissenter, Uzziah ? "

' No ; so I don't interfere with the work
of the ministry. But I make the offer of
the Gospel wherever I can privately, and
I go and see poor folks in prisons and
workhouses, when I can get leave." He
paused, then added, with a sigh, 'It cuts
me very deep, Hannah, to see you look so
miserable, and hardly seem to care about
anything. If you knew more about this
temperance question, and how drink is the
one cause of the ruin of nineteen out of
twenty that go to the bad "

She interrupted. I know all about
temperance  all," she said, listlessly.

He looked surprised ; then, as if her weary

indifference goaded him into making a complaint,
lie continued  " And if you knew
how pleased I am to find you again, and
how it cuts me to see that  well, I mean,
you used to be fond of me, Hannah."

eyes."

*sand if I'd been so blest as to have
found salvation then, and taken to sober
ways, you'd have been a happy woman."

Yes."

She sighed bitterly, as she uttered that
one syllable of reply; she evidently could
not rouse herder to care what he thought
of her. He went to the window and looked
out, trying to find something to say that
would please her. The time was getting
on, and he had certainly made no way at
present. When he looked round, she had
slipped out of the room. She had resolved
to ask for the bill and pay it herself, that,
if any allusion was made to her having
been there the evening before with young

ladies, she might be the only person to
hear it.

 I have no luggage, Uzziah," she said,
when she returned;  and if you ask me
why, I cannot tell you, nor which of the
four towns I came from, that met here
yesterday. But I have paid the reckoning,
and I've money in my hand that will buy
me clothes for a good while to come." She
had, in fact, been paid her quarter's wages
a few days previously.

Uzziah Dill seemed to understand that
he was to ask no questions, or perhaps he
perceived that it would only be a waste of
words if he did ; so he proceeded to show,
as he thought, a great proof of confidence.
He laid about two pounds on the table, in
silver and copper, and took out a small
parcel done up in brown paper. ' That's
the twelve pound, Hannah," he said, '' and
there's what money I have. You had better
take charge of it, and I can ask you for

what I want ; I never spend a penny now
that I need be ashamed you should know
of. I've kept out enough to pay our two
tickets."

She shrank from this mark of his trust
in her. 'i'm not used to carry so much
about with me," she said faintly. 'you'd
better by half put it back again." So he
did, looking almost as spiritless as herself;
and they walked slowly to the station.

And now began a new and very strange
Hfe for Hannah Dill. The third-class carriage
was full of people, and her husband,
with a kind of uncouth attempt at politeness,
began to offer them temperance tracts.
Some took them, others argued with him,
and made game of him. He showed what, to
his wife, seemed an unnatural and distressing
humility. It seemed not in the least
to signify what they said of him or to him,
if they would only take his tracts and
promise to read them.

It was a very slow train, and Hannah
Dill, in spite of herself, dozed ; but her sleep
was far from refreshing, and she started
with a low cry of terror when her husband
touched her and said they were to get out.

It was about four miles to the next
station, and to that they were to walk and
wait till late in the afternoon, when another
train would come up and take them on.
Uzziah Dill bought some food, and they
went on together, he carrying it, and she
holding her umbrella over her head, for the
day was sultry. There was plenty of time
before them, and the walk might have been
delightful to a happier woman. They went
through newly cut hay-fields and among
bean-fields ; they came to a little river, full
of floating water-hies  it was spanned by
a wooden bridge. Close to it was a small
cart-shed, and in its shade they sat down
to make their noonday meal. After that
the ex-convict, not able to repress his joy

at his wife's presence, and his thankfulness
for God's goodness, proposed to sing
a hymn, and forthwith broke out into a
well-known strain, full of exultation, joy,
and praise.

Thunder had been muttering for sometime.
And with more than common suddenness,
a cloud, coming over, burst in torrents
of rain; while, just as the last verse was
in course of conclusion, two young men
dashed across the wooden bridge from the
opposite field, and took shelter also in
the shed.

'By Jove!" exclaimed one of them,
taking off his hat and sprinkling the dust
with drops fi'om its brim. ' They are
going it."

He meant the elements. And just then
a great green flash seemed to run all over
them and among them, and such a rattling,
crashing peal of thunder with it, that the
water in the Httle river shook with its
vibrations.

By Jove!" repeated the same young
man, in an admiring and more respectful
tone, as if lie could not think of withholding
his tribute to these elements, when they
were so much in earnest about their business.


Then the usual thing followed. Uzziah
Dill, with humble civility, almost ludicrous,
rose, and making his bow to the young
men on the other side of the cart, received
two nods in reply, while he said, '' The gods
of the heathen, gentlemen, are no good to
swear by in a danger like this. I'll take
leave to address a prayer to the true God,
for we seem to be in the very midst of the
muddle ; and I have my dear wife with me,
whose safety it's natural I should think of."
Thereupon, pulling off his hat again, he
held it before his face, and, turning away,
murmured into it an inaudible prayer.

The two young men looked at each other,
and Mrs. Dill could not forbear to glance

at them. She was ashamed of her husband
and for him, and yet ashamed of herself for
being ashamed.

One of the young men was very tall and
dark; he leaned on one of the cart-wheels
and smiled, while he looked at the man
praying. The other young man was small
and fah ; he sat on the shaft, and remained
perfectly grave ; he had a little month, which
he slightly screwed up with an air of
observant intelligence, that made him look
especially foolish.

When a baby looks thus at a candle, we
think the little face has an air of wisdom ;
but if a young man looks thus at an
ordinary hay-cart, we are sme he must bean
ass.

Uzziah Dill now turned round, and, after
another tremendous clap of thunder, produced
a bundle of leaflets, and was just
about to make a civil offer of some to the
gentlemen, when the tall young man 

Lord Eobert, in fact  burst into a good-natured
laugh. 'why, Peep' he exclaimed,
' this is out of the frying-pan into the fire 1
Put them up, my good man  put them up.
This gentleman's pockets," indicating his
companion, ' are full of them already. They
are temperance leaflets, I see."

Uzziah Dill, finding his incipient temperance
lecture taken out of his mouth, looked
foolish for a moment ; but when little Peep
said kindly, ' Ye-es, I am much interested
in the temperance cause," his countenance
glowed with joy.

' Indeed, sir," he said respectfully. " Then,
sir, I make bold to wish you God speed
with it.  I'm only a poor cobbler," he
continued, after giving little Peep an unreasonable
time to reply in, if he had been
so minded, 'but I count it a great honour
to be able to help such a blessed cause,
if it's ever so little."

"Ye-es," said little Peep, and slowly

added, taking time to cogitate between
every two or three words, '' I wish  there
was no  strong drink."

Thereupon Lord Bob, taking no notice
at all of the cobbler, gave little Peep a dig
in the ribs. '* No strong drink ? You area
pretty fellow," he exclaimed.  Call yourself
a Briton, and talk of getting into
parliament, and yet cry out, ' No strong
drink ! ' How's the Government to go on
without the revenue from it ? Where will
you get the money to pay your soldiers and
sailors with?"

I don't  know," said little Peep, looking
as much perplexed as if he felt seriously
concerned to produce the wherewithal then
and there.

Chapter XII.

How could there be a better opening fora
palaver? It was pouring now with steady
rain. Little Peep, seated on the shaft,
looked much perplexed; Uzziah Dill sat
on the shabby carpet-bag that held his
tools; and Lord Bob, facing them both,
leaned on the wheel of the cart, and, being
very tall, looked right over it into little
Peep's eyes. '' There's patriotism! " he exclaimed.
''Do you want the country to goto
wrack ? Don't you know, and don't you
too, cobbler  I beg your pardon "

''No offence, sir; that's my trade," Uzziah
broke in. " Pray go on, sir."

"Well, don't you know, then, that our

soldiers and sailors are almost entirely paid
out of the revenue that comes from the
excise duties ? "

*well, sir," Uzziah presently said, after
giving little Peep time to reply, if he chose,
* if I am to answer, I'll say that drink costs
the country very nigh as much as it
pays it. Look at all our criminal courts,
what they cost  our judges, our prisons,
with all their officers and servants, and the
chaplains, and the feeding of the prisoners,
and their clothes. Then look at our police
force  their wages, and clothes, and all the
rest of it, sir. And then consider that,
nineteen-twentieths of all the crime being
caused hy drink, that proportion of the
expense would be saved if we were sober."

Even Httle Peep was startled here.
*eye-es," he said, with what for him was
wonderful promptitude; "but nineteen-twentieth
is such  a  such a jolly lot to
write off."

' Off the crimes, sir, did you mean, or
the money? "

 Why, it's the money we want, and are
trying  to scrape together''

 Well, sir," cried the cobbler, "I'm sure
I'm willing to meet you half-way. We'll
say nine-tenths of the expense is saved ; we
have nineteen-twentieths less crime, and
the country saves nine-tenths of the expense,
which you have towards the army
and navy."

That's fair," said little Peep.

And my nineteen-twentieths, sir, includes
not only the convictions for crimes
done when a man is in drink, but those
committed by habitual drunkards, even
though they be then sober ; men, in short,
that have got their wills made weak by
drink, and their consciences clouded."

"You have got up the subject, cobbler,
I see," observed Lord Eobert.

"Yes, sir."

' Well, but granting all you say (for the
sake of argument, merely), the sum saved
would not half pay."

'I was afraid it wouldn't," said little
Peep, screwing up his mouth and shaking
his head.

'* No, sir ; but then, if we had no drunkards,
we should have hardly any paupers.
Only think what they cost the country.
We should save a sight of money there."

 You take a good deal for granted."

"But not too much, sir. I take for
granted that, thank God, people have their
feelings. There are thousands of poor old
folks in the workhouses that have children
who'd scorn to leave them there, but that
they're almost beggars themselves, along
with their families, because they are such
slaves to the drink. There are thousands
upon thousands of children there as well,
because they've lost father, and often
mother too, through the drink."

VOL. II. T

Little Peep here began to look a trifle
happier. He glanced at Lord Robert, as
if the matter was in his hands, and on his
fiat depended the payment of her Majesty's
forces. He was in the habit of taking
things very much to heart ; besides, he had
a nasty cough. He must not leave the
cart-shed, therefore, while it rained, and
while he stayed he would, of course, talk
to the cobbler. For these reasons, therefore,
and not because he cared about the
matter in hand. Lord Bob gave himself an
air of conviction, and looked cheerful.

*' Come," he said, *I think we're getting
on. Besides, you may remember that, withall
our sobriety, we shall still derive some
revenue  suppose we say one-twentieth 
from the excise on strong drink. You can
add that."

"And what about the duties on tobacco ?
Many people sa-ay you're not to smoke,"
said little Peep.

'sit can only be the most hardened
villains who say that. Drinking and
smoking have nothing really to do with
one another. In fact, some of the most
sober nations smoke most," replied Lord
Eobert, laughing.

'My doctor always tells me to smoke 
in moderation," said little Peep.

"And if you drink toast and water with
your pipe, or drink nothing at all, sir, where
is the harm of it?" said Uzziah. 'anyhow,"
he continued, in a burst of generosity,
'' I should wish the Government to keep
that branch of the revenue. We have no
call to interfere with it ; for ours is the
temperance cause, and nothing else."

"Then, if I'm to have all that," said
little Peep, cogitating, "won't it be almost
enough ? or shall we all have to be taxed
much more than  than we are now, you
know?"

"Even if we are, sir, think how much

richer we shall be. We shall hardly feel it.
We shall be richer by nineteen-twentieths
of all those millions that we are now paying
for drink, and by what we earn in regular
wages, and by most of the paupers being
at home with their parents and with their
children. Some taxes will be taken off, and
others will be put on."

And so you think we shall do ? "
I pray God for a chance of trying, sir."
So do I," answered little Peep.
''I take my leave of you, gentlemen,"
then said the cobbler. And if you'll put up
your umbrella, my dear, it's about time we
stepped over to the station."

Mrs. Dill rose, and, to her great shame,
saw each of the gentlemen drop money into
Uzziah's hand, and saw him receive it, and
put it in his pocket. They knew him
better than she did, it appeared.

* Thank you, gentlemen," he said. " To
give this to me is about the same thing

as to give it to the cause ; for I live for the
cause, in my humble way."

He had not gone many yards, following
closely on his wife's heels, when Lord Bob
came striding after him. ' I say, cobbler,"
he cried, ' you're no fool  I can see that."

 You're very good, sir," answered Uzziah.
Such headpiece as I have is not fuddled
with drink, anyhow. I am a sober man
now, through the goodness of the Lord."

* Well, look here, there was a little flaw
in those fine calculations of yours, which I
did not wish my poor friend to see. You
make out that, if all the people became
sober, they would save  how many millions
a year is it ? Well, I forget ; but suppose
it saved, whose pockets is it in? "

<< Why, in the people's pockets, sir."

"Exactly so, and not in the pocket of
the Government. How do you propose to
conjure it there ? "

Now, Lord Bob, being very tall, and the

SAKAH DE BEEENGEE.

rain pouring down, dropped a good deal
from the brim of his hat and splashed on
Uzziah's nose as he looked up to answer.

' It seems to me, sir," he said, both men
walking on at a smart pace, '' that there
may be a flaw in your calculations. "When
God puts it into the minds of a good many-people
that a certain thing they've been
in the habit of doing  as I may say with
a clear conscience  is a wrong thing to do,
that is a kind of prophecy that the thing,
sooner or later, is going to be done away
with by them ; just as the slave trade was,
you know, sir, and then slavery. We that
think about it have got, so to speak, such
a prophecy, and that you should not leave
out of your calculation. This great drink
traffic is certain sure going to be done
away with; we don't know when, and we
don't know how."

"Going to be given up!" exclaimed
Lord Eobert, laughing.

' Yes, sir. There has been a great deal
of talk this forty years about what a
sad thing it was to drink, but not half
enough about what a sad thing it was to
distil the drink, and sell out the drink. A
vast many folks have found out this lately.
I heard a gentleman lecture on it only
yesterday. His name was Mr. Amias de
Berenger."

Lord Eobert heard this name with great
amusement; but it did not suit him to let
the cobbler know that he was intimate with
Mr. Amias de Berenger. He smiled.  And
so this Mr. de Berenger and you temperance
folks generally have got a kind of supernatural
instinct in you (which you call a
prophecy), and it tells you that every man
concerned in the liquor traffic is going
to be ruined? " Then, after a short pause,
his native gentlemanlike coming to his
aid, he added, "And all the drunkards
reclaimed, while at the same time we

may leave Providence to look after the
revenue ? ' '

*'I don't exactly know about that, sir,"
answered Uzziah, who felt himself rather
at fault there.

'sit seems to me that Parliament will
have enough to do," continued Lord Eobert,
half bantering him. " It has first to stop
the liquor traffic ; secondly, to compensate
the whole body of publicans ; and, thirdly,
to find money for the payment of the
forces."

Well, sir. Parliament had enough to do
and did it  when it had to make folks
believe that slavery was not to be borne
with, and then to compensate the slave-owners.
But the world has got on since
that, and it may be through that. And
how do you know that the heads of the
liquor traffic will not be the first to show
how this thing is to be done ? "

*I am no prophet, cobbler; but I think
I know better than that."

sewell, sir, and I am no prophet; but
if you are sure Parliament will pass no bills
to stop the traffic, and no other way can bethought
of, why, we have no call to consider
how the forces are to be paid. But I
have noticed," continued the cobbler,  a
strange way there is with people, as if
they thought human creatures, when they
were added together, were not as good as
every one of the same lot is when he stands
by himself. Now, why are you and eye
hundred other gentlemen not to be willing
to do what you yourself are willing to do,
sir, for your fellow creatures ? "

Then, as Lord Eobert strode beside the
limping cobbler, he fell into a short cogitation,
keeping an amused expression of
surprise on his pleasant face, and not in the
least attending to Uzziah Dilly who was
carefully attempting to explain that, in
using the word 'good," he did not impute
to men any works that had merit in
themselves.

Lord Eobert heard not a single word of
this theological dissertation, but the cobbler
was gratified by his silence, and surprised
when he suddenly exclaimed,  How do you
know that I myself am willing to do anything
at all for the benefit of my fellow-creatures
? Better ascertain that before
you talk of the other five hundred."

' I leave it entirely to you, sir," said
Uzziah, with a smile. "You know best;
but I am not afraid."

"And you stick to it, that this thing is
going to be done ? "

Oh yes, sir. I believe every man will
soon have a good chance of being sober ;
that everything will soon be in favour of
his keeping sober, instead of in favour of
his getting drunk."

"In spite of the immense interests that
stand in the way, and in spite of the
determination of the people to have drink?"

"Yes, sir; but how it's to be done I

know nothing about. It seems most likely
that God will put it into the hearts of the
people more and more to band together,
to encourage one another, and help one
another themselves to give drink up."

'well, cobbler, I must go, and I will
say this ' '

'sir?"

"You are the most downright, thoroughgoing,
unreasonable, incorrigible fanatic I
ever met with ! "

So saying, and with a good-natured laugh,
and another hae-crown, Lord Eobert strode
back to the cart-shed as fast as his long legs
would carry him. " Well," he said, arguing
with himself as he went on, and smiling
furtively, " of course there must be a grain
of sense in the schemes and dreams of every
fanatic, or how could his fanaticism spread ?
Does this, or does it not, seem more Utopian
than the putting away of slavery did in its
day? Should I, or should I not, have

thought the man such a fool if I had met
with him before I was engaged to (well,
she's a sweet creature, and I am a lucky
dog)  engaged to Fanny ? I shall have her
fortune down; therefore, cobbler, you are
right. I have a great willingness in my
mind to do something for my fellow-creatures,
if I can without inconvenience. No !
Come ! I am hard upon myself. I cancel
those last words. The brewer's sweet little
daughter deserves something more of me,
considering the pains she takes to make
a better fellow of me. Yes, he promised
me her fortune down. What a philanthropic
old boy he is !  his hand always
in his pocket to help the poor. How would
it look if, the next time he gave Fanny
a good round sum for charity, I got her
to spend it in erecting a temperance hall
right in front of his distillery gates ? Well,
not filial, I'm afraid. What fun we had,
De Berenger and I, a few years ago, with

those ridiculous temperance lectures ! We
never did the slightest good, that I know
of, but we taught ourselves to speak by
means of them. They were all on the
other tack. What a fool, and what a
madman, and what a sinner the drunkard
was ! and no hint that anybody else was
at all to blame. And so drunkenness is
going to be done away with, is it, cobbler ?
Time will show, but not my time, I think.
Well, Peep, old fellow, how are you
getting on? "

Little Peep replied that he had coughed
a good deal, but that it had refreshed him
to think of his talk with the cobbler.

Ah, yes! you temperance fellows all
talk of 'the cause,' as if it was the only
cause worth living for. What a fool that
cobbler is ! "

Little Peep here repeated a text to the
effect that God made use of the foolish
wherewith to confound the wise.

*eyes, when you take to quoting Scripture,
I'm always stumped," said Lord
Eobert. 'It's my belief that every temperance
man you meet with you write his
name in your note-book, and say a prayer
for him at night when you go to bed."

Lord Eobert did not intend to be profane,
but he felt that he had described something
ridiculous  suitable for little Peep, but not
for a manly character.

Ye-es," said Httle Peep, with that
pathetic air of wisdom which looked so
fooHsh, "I always pray for them. I think
we all pray for one another, and that's
why "

 Why, what?"

' Why we are getting on  so fast."

Oh!"

 But I say. Bob?"

'swell? However, I know what you
mean, so you need not say it."

What do I mean?"

*' Why, that, considering what a promising
young fellow I was, a temperance lecturer,
and all that sort of thing, it is odd that
I should be turning out no better than my
neighbours, and almost wicked enough to
make fun of 'the cause.' But what is at
the bottom of nineteen-twentieths of all
the crime in the country, Peep  mine as
well as other men's ? You ought to know."
Here he imitated the countrified twang of
the cobbler. 'rit's all the drink, sir  the
drink as has done it."

The drink. Bob ? You're joking."

Not at all. The drink is going to pay
my debts and give me a large fortune, with
a pretty wife. Therefore, as Hamlet said,
I can't make you a sound answer ; my
wit's diseased'  so I say. I can't cant
any more against the drink; my tongue's
tied."

It wasn't cant. Bob."

No ; but look here. Peep. I don't want

you to think me any worse than I am.
De Berenger took up the subject in good
earnest. I helped him for fun. It never
was one that I should have chosen of my
own accord. Long before I met with Fanny
I gave up lecturing."

** Ye-es," said little Peep ; " and you and
De Berenger gave me a lot of the lectures.
I got"  here he considered a moment  *I
got four hundred pledges  in all."

Then you've done all that more for the
world than I have done. I never got any."

I liked lecturing."

** Yes, you good little fool," thought Lord
Robert. With what joy and pride you
stood forth with another man's lecture
before you ! How you got them up beforehand,
with that Scotch minister to coach

you ! "

I often think  I shall never lecture 
any n;iore. Bob." He looked inquiringly at
Lord Eobert as he spoke.

* Nonsense, nonsense ! " exclaimed Lord
Robert, in reply. ** What do you mean,
man ? You'll be all right when that cough
of yours gets well ; " then, knowing that it
was unfeeling to make light of what was so
serious, he added, ** We shall be in town ina
week or so, and then you can have more
advice about it."

*sand it's such a little cough," said the
poor young fellow. 'but sometimes I
feel so weak, Bob, I don't know what todo.
I feel  almost as if I was going
to cry'*

"Why, there's my brother, in his dogcart,"
exclaimed Lord Robert, suddenly
turning his back and speaking hurriedly.
Look ! he's coming through the lodge gates.
I'll meet him. He'll take you up ; he can
easily drive over the clover, and it has done
raining."

** Poor Peep ! " was his comment on the
conversation as he strode on. " I like that

VOL. TI. n

fellow, and felt almost, when he said that,
as if I could have cried too."

Some hours after that time there was
great surprise and much regret, as well as
discomfort, in Hannah Dill's late home, for
the three Mr. de Berengers, with their aunt
Sarah, and also Amabel and Delia, drove up,
luggage and all, in two flies, and the door
was opened to them by JoUiffe, who informed
them that Mrs. Snaith had not returned
home at the appointed time, but that a
telegram had been received from her. ' And
what it means, sir, and what Mrs. Snaith
can be thinking of to act so by you, and
when there's so much extra work too, I,
that know her so well, can no more tell'*
said Mrs. Jolliffe, 'than I can fly. The
telegram is on your study table, sir."

Thither the party proceeded.

The telegram was dated from some little
junction that none of the party had ever

heard of. Mrs. Dill had found opportunity
to send it off while Uzziah bought the food
which had been eaten under the cart-shed.
After the due direction, to ' Mrs. Jolliest
the Eev. Felix de Berenger's," etc., it
ran as follows : 

*dear Friend,

 I am that hurried that you must
excuse mistakes. I could not come home
last night. I never do expect to see you
again, nor get back to my place. Give my
dear love to the precious young ladies."

*' She must have paid two shillings for
this," exclaimed Sarah.

Tears were rolling down Amabel's cheeks.
' Mamsey gone  Mamsey," she almost
whispered. ' Shall I never see Mamsey
any more ? "

 I don't believe it ! " exclaimed Delia,
indignantly. '' She never would be so

unkind'* Then Delia began to sob and
cry, and came to kiss Felix and lean on
his shoulder, and beg him to say he was
sure that Mamsey would soon come back
again.

My dears, my dear girls ! " cried Sarah.
'* Mrs. Snaith was certainly a most kind and
attentive nurse to you; but really, to cry
about her suddenly leaving you, is too
much. Perhaps "

swell, what, 'perhaps,' Cousin Sarah?"
sobbed Delia. " Do you mean, perhaps
she'll come back again ? "

Dick all this time was devoured with
jealousy, and Amias wished devoutly that
Amabel would come and lean so on his
shoulder.

*' And I was cross to her the day before
yesterday," sobbed the repentant Delia.
' I said she hadn't ironed my flounce nicely.
Oh, Coz, do say you're sure she's coming
back again! "

Here Amabel melted into tears anew
and both the girls, as by one impulse
darted out of the study and rushed upstairs
to their own bedroom to cry together.

Poor bereaved mother ! Those were the
only tears her children ever shed for her,
and she never knew even of those.

Amabel and Delia came down to supper
looking so sad, that the subject of Mrs.
Snaith's sudden withdrawal was avoided as
by one consent; but whether Sarah could
have refrained from it if she had not already
exhausted her vocabulary of blame on the
poor absentee, may well be doubted.

"Yes!" she exclaimed, as the two poor
children, clinging together, went away the
moment they had finished their meal. "Yes,
this ought to show you, Amias, how wrong
it is to excite the feeling of the lower classes
about temperance, or any other of your
modem inventions."

Amias looked amazed, and Sarah, finding

herself in possession of the house, continued


'eyes, the girls told me when they came
home that the speech Amias made agitated
Mrs. Snaith to that degree, that she actually
fainted  fainted dead away  and before they
could get her to revive, she moaned most
distressingly. And there was a horrid little
lame man, all the time she was insensible,
who told the most terrible anecdotes about
drunken men killing their wives. Delia
says he quite frightened her, and she was
thankful when Mrs. Snaith was able to rise
and come away. So now Felix has lost a
most excellent domestic ; and very likely she
has gone off, under a mistaken impression
that it's her duty to turn temperance lecturer
herself, as those American women did."

'' It's not in her," said Felix ; '' she is not
that kind of woman."

But Sarah was not to be repressed.
'' There is nothing so unlike themselves,"

she continued,  that people will not do it
under a fanatical impulse. I myself felt
strongly inclined to lay my pearl necklace
in the plate once, when that bishop (you
know his name, Felix; I forget it)  that
bishop preached about money for the Indian
famine."

"But you didn't do it, aunt, did you?"
asked Dick.

No. Now, Dick, I have several times
pointed out to you that you should never
have jokes and laugh at them apart, in the
presence of others. Yes; you looked at
Amias in such a way just now, that, if it
had not chanced that I was talking on a
serious subject, I should certainly have
thought you had some joke about me."

Chapter I.

Amias rose early the next morning and went
into the dewy garden. It was looking its
best. Ked lilies and white ones stood side
by side scenting the air; a thick bush of
climbing clematis leaned towards him from
a tall cherry tree. Towering hollyhocks ina
long row went straight across the garden,
and directed the eye to the old yew-tree
hedge, which looked almost black in its
shady station.

' I must leave it, and leave /er," thought

VOL. III. B

the lover, and turned to look at the white-curtained
windows, behind which he supposed
Amabel to be sleeping. Felix was
seen advancing, and forthwith Amias began
with diligence to examine the beehives,
before which he had been standing.

A certain something, of which he had
hitherto been scarcely aware, now made
itself manifest to him. It was this : that
he had begun to think Felix was a man to
be much considered, that it was natural to
respect him.

Felix had been pleasant and brotherly, of
course, but his manner now and then had
been changed a little, just for the moment.
Amias had been sensitive to this change ;
had shown a certain deference toward Felix,
which it now occurred to him that the latter
had taken advantage of. Had he accepted
it as his right ? Amias could not help
thinking that he had, and he chose to pretend
to himself, as FeHx approached, that

there could be no reason for this, and that
it had better be done away with.

Well, then, he would do away with it,
and address Felix exactly as he should
have done in the old days, without thinking
of what he was going to say. Ridiculous !
The idea of considering how he should
address his oti brother, on occasion of
their first meeting in the morning ! But
here he stood, staring at the beehives, and
knowing that he tuas desirous to please
FeHx, and undecided what to say, knowing
now that Felix, standing beside him, felt no
answering embarrassment.

' I feel exactly as I might if he was her
father," thought the poor victim ; and now
the whole thing was confessed to himself.
And still he watched the bees coming out,
and still Felix did not speak.

What a strong smell of clary there is ! "
he said at last.

eyes," said Felix, indifferently; 'so

many bees settling on it and fluttering about
it, cause it to give forth that strong odour""
Amias, while he said this, had time to
remember that the last thing the girls had
done before they went to the seaside, had
been to pull the clary blossoms and spread
them on sheets of paper in a spare attic, ta
be dried for making wine, and that the
scent of clary was so strong on their gowns
and capes when they came in, that they
had been obliged to change these habiliments.
Mrs. Snaith had hung them in the
air on a clothes-line. How interesting they
had looked  especially one of them.

Fool that I am ; he is thinking of the
same thing," thought Amias. " What could

possess me to mention the clary, for "

*that reminds me " said Felix,

calmly, and paused.

'* I knew it would," thought Amias, and
he interrupted. " I always think the
emanations from that plant must have substance.

Surely, with a magnifying glass,
one could detect the particles floating over
the flowers''

I think not," said FeHx, who, not being
himself embarrassed, could easily get on
without returning to his first opening. ' I
think not. But, Amias, I'm glad you rose
so early, for I particularly wanted to speak
to you."

' To speak to me, old fellow? Oh  well,
let us sit down, then." He moved on with
a pretence of calmness, possessed himself
oi a stick as he went, and acknowledged
to himself that he was quite sure what the
talk was going to be about.  How beautiful
and how dewy everything looks! "he
said, as they sat down on a rustic bench.

*' Yes," said FeHx again.

Amias took out his knife and began to
whittle the stick, because he had an unwonted
consciousness of his hands ; they
seemed to be in his way.

 I wanted," said Felix, ' to speak to you
about Amabel."

Amias could not say a word.

*shave you considered that she is not
yet out of the schoolroom ? "

Amias said nothing, and Felix quietly
went on.

'I should like to know whether you ara
aware how extremely young she is ? "

Then he felt obliged to answer. *Yes
Felix, I am ; I know she was sixteen on the
teeth of last month."

I think you have been taking some
pains to please her."

*I don't know that I have any cause to
suppose that you would dislike the notion
of my having succeeded."

' Have you succeeded ? "

"I don't know."

* You must not make any more efforts in
that line  at any rate, for the present."

Here the worm felt as if he was going

to turn. But he did not ; lie remained
silent.

'' I think I have a right to say that you
are not to pay her any more of these half-playful
attentions," continued Felix, or we
shall get nothing more done in the schoolroom
; and also that I cannot allow her, at
her tender age, to receive any letters."

'' Playful attentions  playful!" repeated
Amias, with a burning sense of wrong. ** Do
you mean to say that you think I am not in
earnest ? "

' No, my dear fellow," said Felix, with
perfect gentleness ; '' I had no idea of saying
anything to annoy you. But perhaps I may
say now, that she certainly is not old enough
to know her own mind, and therefore, for
your own sake as well as for hers "

' My own sake ! " exclaimed Amias, with
scorn. " Pray leave me to take care of my
own feelings ; speak only for her sake, and
of hers."

'I take for granted that she is old Sam's
granddaughter," continued Felix, " and that
he has ascertained the fact, because, though
he has never been at the pains to let me
know it, he continues to treat the girls with
constantly growing affection. If, therefore,
you think he has a better right over her
sature, or think that the general facts of
the situation throw her more naturally upon
his care than on mine, you may go and
speak to him if you wish it."

"I think nothing of the kind, Felix. I
beg your pardon for my heat. If she had
been a brother's child instead of a cousin's,
you could not possibly have done more 
only "

'' Only what ? "

It hurts me deeply that you should
disapprove in this general way. If you have
any particular fault to find with me "

* I have certainly a particular fault to find
with you, and no other. It is that you have

made love to a good little girl, who was
very happy, obedient, and childlike. I
notice a difference in her ; you have robbed
her of a full year of childhood."

'shave I?" said Amias, in a choking
voice.

But he hardly knew whether the accusation
was most bitter or most sweet. He
thought he would rather have died than
have made this sweet creature restless and
unhappy. But then her unrest, if she felt
it, was on Its account !

' If she was a year or two older, then ; if
I was willing to wait," he began; but oh,
what a long time even one year seemed !
He paused to consider it.

*eyes," observed Felix, 'if she was two
years older  that is, if you Hke to wait two
years and then come  you may say what
you please to her with my approval, provided
nothing whatever is said now, and nothing
written."

'I meant to say something decisive before
I went," said Amias, under a deep
conviction that some other fellow would
seize upon his jewel, if she was left free for
such a long time. He expressed this alarm
to his brother at great length.

Felix was not in the least impressed.
'Amabel is not the only young girl in
the world, that every man must needs fall in
love with her," he remarked.

Amias thereupon, at equal length, argued
that she was, as it were, almost the only
young girl in the world so much more
charming, desirable, sweet, etc., etc. He
rather hinted this than said it. Felix would
not have found any raptures bearable, and,
besides, his raptures were far too deep to bespread
forth to the light.

For all reply to this FeHx said,  But she
never sees anybody."

 Never ? " cried Amias.

 Excepting a curate now and then."

Amias admitted to himself that he was
not afraid of the curates.

But in the shooting season, and at
Easter, Uncle Sam has a houseful of
fellows."

' And she will see them at church," answered
FeHx. eyes, she will. Well, you
must run that risk." He spoke of the risk
with a contempt which Amias thought not
warranted.

'' And they will see her'' he continued.

sand ask Sir Samuel who she is," observed
Felix. ' I should much like to know"
what answer he will make to that question
when it shall be so asked that he must
answer."

* And toto see her," Amias was about to
add ; but he paused, and yet the flash that
came into his eyes, and his sudden checking
of himself, were so manifest that Felix
noticed them.

sewell?" he inquired.

"It was nothing  at least, nothing that
I care to utter."

Then it must have been what I suspected."
He laughed, and his dark cheek
mustered colour. "Why, you ridiculous
young fellow!" he exclaimed, laying his
hand on his brother's shoulder. " Are you
preposterous enough to be jealous of  me . "

No, I am not ; but any other man might
be!"

FeHx looked at him.

How can you possibly suppose I could
fall in love with one of these dear little
girls ? " he said, in a tone of strong remonstrance.
" I stand almost in the relation of
a father to them."

I should say, on the contrary, that your
position toward them makes it quite inevitable
that you should fall in love with one
of them, unless you already love some one
else."

"Besides," said Felix, not directly

answering this last thrust, 'I should not
care to be more nearly allied to John 
poor fellow !  if John's they are. And
if they are not, I certainly should not care
to be allied to nobody knows whom."

Amias winced a little on hearing this,
but Felix had not done with him.

However, it is not impossible that you
may be right," he continued, not without
a touch of bitterness. ' It may make you
feel more at ease to learn that I have been
these viany years attached to some one
else."

No more jealousy was possible now, but
also no more rebellion. Felix was master
of the situation.

*rand so," he said, as he rose, if you
wish this time two years to see Amabel,
you will come here again ; and in the meantime
I consider you are bound in honour to
leave her absolutely alone, and not make
her an offer tiU she is eighteen. "

He looked at Amias, who had to answer,
'I consent."

And just as he said it, Amabel and Delia
came down the garden, as if on purpose to
show him how hard his newly vowed contest
was to be. He did not say a word,
but his eyes dwelt on Amabel's face. There
was a tender sadness on it  a certain,
almost forlorn expression. We understand
people so well when we love them. Amias
felt that this fair young creature had been
so waited on, so attended to, so watched
and loved by her nurse, that, this tendance
and this fencing in from loneness withdrawn,
she was looking about her, as if
she felt herself pushed out into some colder
world, and knew not how to order herself
in it. He remembered the flattery of
observance with which 'Mamsey's" eyes
had dwelt on her young lady. Sometimes
he had thought that his eyes, waiting on
her, had not been unmarked either. But
she was not thinking of him now.

* Is there any letter, Coz, from Mrs.
Snaith ? ' ' she asked.

 No, my dear  none."

 What do you think she means, Coz ?
It cannot be that she is ill ? "

' No, my dear; I feel confident that she
is not ill."

'But have you any idea what it all
means ? "

A certain something passed over the face
of FeHx then, which Amias noticed as well
as Amabel.

You have, Coz ? " she said.

' I have no definite idea," answered
Felix. 'even if I had, I could not tell it
to you."

Amias noticed that he pitied the two
girls in this withdrawal of their faithful
maid and old nurse, far more than he
did himself in the loss of an excellent
domestic.

AU this time the girls had been standing

before the two brothers, who were seated;
but now Delia made herself room beside
Felix, and Amias, starting up, moved to
Amabel to take his place ; so now Felix
was sitting between the two girls, and
Amias was looking at the group. That
Felix remembered just then what had
so lately passed between him and his
brother was evident, for as the two girls
seemed to lean towards him for comfort
and support, his dark face again took on
a hint of colour, his eyes flashed as if with
involuntary amusement, and he even looked
a little embarrassed.

Foolish Amias ! How could he have put
such a thought into his brother's head ?

But here was Aunt Sarah coming also,
her carrot-coloured curls flying, and her
pink morning wrapper jauntily fastened up
with a silver clasp.

It was rather a narrow gravel walk that led
to the house, and the girls went in to breakfast

down it, pressing their skirts to them,
lest the dewy, bending flowers should wet
them. Sarah followed next, then Felix,
and lastly Amias, which arrangement he
naturally felt to be very disagreeable.

'' Should he read to them that morning ? "
he inquired of the girls after breakfast, in
the presence of Felix.

 No, they had no time, thanks ; they
were going to be extremely busy."

Amias sighed, and after breakfast disconsolately
wandered about indoors, or read the
various newspapers that he always had sent
to him wherever he was. At last, about
eleven o'clock, he saw the two girls sitting
together under the walnut trees, shelling
peas for the early dinner. He joined them.
Jolliffe was very busy, they said, and they
had asked her what they could do to help,
now dear Mamsey was gone. So she had
asked them to gather some fruit and the
peas, and then to shell them.

VOL. III. C

*' You might have let me help ! " exclaimed
Amias.

'' Goz never helps at that kind of thing,"
said Delia, as if this was an exhaustive
answer.

* Fancy Coz shelling peas!" saidAmahel.

Dick was gone ; he had departed the previous
evening, to stay two days with a boy
friend.

 Dick will be back tomorrow," observed
Delia, '' and then we can make him help."
There was no emphasis on the word *make ; "
it only expressed a familiar truth in simple
language.

'Dick is a lucky dog," said Amias, forgetting
himself; ' he will have another
three weeks here before he goes back to
school." He spoke with such bitter regret
in his voice, that the girls both looked
at him.

' Don't you like going away?" asked
Delia, composedly.

Here he remembered this promise.  Not
particularly," lie said.

"Then, why don't you stay?" she inquired.
"I'm sure Coz would he very
glad  and so should we," she added, and
stooped to seize another handful of pods
with her dimpled fingers. Amabel had a
more slender hand; she held it out just
then, half full of peas, and as they ran out
into the dish, he noticed a handsome pearl
ring. He had observed it before, with certain
misgivings. How could he possibly go
away with any doubt as to the meaning or
history of that ring ? There had been
neither assent nor dissent in her face when
Dora had said " so should we; " she had not
looked up at him.

His thought was urgent for utterance, but
it would have been contrary to his promise
to ask such a question as he would have
liked to do. He said, " That
risk of being stained with the peas.

Does it?" exclaimed Amabel, hastily;
and lie drew it off, colouring with anxiety,
as lie thought, while she looked at it.

*' And pearls, you know, will not bear soap
and water," he continued.

' It's all right," said Delia ;  I saw you,"
she continued, in a rallying tone, to her
sister. " I saw you take off your glove in
the ribbon-shop the other day, and let your
hand hang out over the ribbon-box  pretending
to choose; I saw you stick your
finger out, fastening your cuff, the other day
on the pier, that those two lieutenants
might see it. Dear creature ! And she
promised to give me one too," continued
Delia, with a sigh.

She promised ! " exclaimedAmias, with
involuntary delight. *' Oh, it was a lady
who gave it, then ? "

'' It was dear Mamsey," said Mabel
taking up the ring and putting it gently to
her cheek, and then to her lips. ' She saved

out of her wages for three years and bought
me this. It has some of her hau* in it.
And I asked her to let her name be engraved
on the inside, and she had it done, but only
her Christian name, you see."

She let Amias receive the ring in his
hand. He wished he might have kissed it
too, but he only looked at it and saw the
name, hannah."

Amabel was beautifully shy now. She
blushed, because she felt that Amias would
know she had been glad to explain to him
about this gift of a ring ; but just as he,
finding no pretext for holding it longer, was
stretching out his hand to return it. Aunt
Sarah came out again, meddling old woman !
He thought she looked inquisitive, and perhaps
Amabel thought so too, for she shelled
the peas with great diligence for a few
minutes more, and then the task was
finished. One of the girls carried in the
peas, the other the basket of pods, and
Sarah and Amias were left alone together.

Amias did not see Amabel again till the
early dinner, and very soon after that Sir
Samuel appeared. He had brought two
ponies, and proposed to take both the girls
out for a ride.

Circumstances were helping Amias to
keep his promise. The girls considered ita
great treat to go out riding nth Sir
Samuel.

While they were gone upstairs to put on
their habits, Mrs. Snaith's departure was-mentioned
by Sarah. She wished very much
to know what she might have confided to
the old man; whether it was through her,,
or through John himself before his death,,
that these girls were known by him to be
his granddaughters. That he did know it
she had no doubt, else why was he so fond
of them ?

/'Not gone for long, I suppose?" he said
coolly.

'eyes, gone for good," she replied.

** Where is she gone, then ? " he inquired
sharply.

'' That we cannot tell, uncle. You can
see the telegram."

Su Samuel tui-ned the telegram about,
read it with earnestness, and almost, as it
seemed to Sarah, with consternation.

*' It does not signify, of course?" said
Sarah, in a questioning tone.

'what does not signify?" he replied.
Having scrutinized the telegram thoroughly,
he was now folding it up, and presently he
put it in his purse, and stood for some
minutes so lost in thought, that when the
giiis came in ready for their ride he did not
notice them.

*well, good-bye, my dear," he said at
last, to his niece Sarah. 'I cannot have
you to luncheon tomorrow, though I said
I would. I am going out."

CHAPTEK II.

Amias was exceedingly vexed, when, about
two hours after this, Sir Samuel rode upto
the rectory door alone.

He had been pacing about on the lawn,
and cogitating over his chance of lifting
Amabel down from her pony.

Sir Samuel laughed when he saw him.
It was a good-natured laugh, but not altogether
devoid of a little harmless malice.
Amias had come up to him to ask what
he had done with the girls, but this laugh
awoke in him an uneasy suspicion that
the  grandfather " might have observed his
devotion, might have other views for
Amabel  might not approve.

*'AJi, Mr. Lecturer," said Sir Samuel,
and laughed again. " You were not aware,
I suppose, that I was among your auditors
the other day when you were holding forth
on the common? "

Amias felt rather foolish ; wondered
whether he had been extravagant in any
of his assertions. He was relieved to find
what the laugh meant, but he longed for
some opening for asking about Amabel.

''I did not mind it," continued the old
man, naturally feeling that Amias would
rather he had not heard that particular
speech. ' You are a born orator, my lad.
Tom  Tom always used to stutter so when
he tried to speak. I shall never make
anything of Tom. I should Hke very well
to see you in the House, where you would
have matters worth mention to spend your
eloquence on. Should you like it ? Eh ? "

tYery much, uncle; but there is no
chance of such a thing for a long time to

come."

SARAH DE BEEENGEE.

 You had no notion that your old uncle
was present, had you ? "

* Of course not," exclaimed Amias, quite
shocked.

sand if I am not mistaken, there was
no personal feeling in your invectives 
none of them were directed specially against
me?"

He touched the young man's shoulder
with his riding whip so gently, that it was
almost like a caress ; he spoke as kindly
as a father might have done.

' How should I have any personal feeling
against you, uncle?" exclaimed Amias.
*'I always think of you as the kindest
person I know. What do you take me
for?"

*' You young fanatic," said Sir Samuel,,
laughing,  do you really think it your
duty to keep out of my way ? "

No!" exclaimed Amias, with genuine
astonishment.

* Then, why do you never come near me
when I am in London ? "

Amias here felt extremely ashamed of
himself, for the whole conversation was
such a confession of king on the part of
the old man, and he felt that on his part
nothing had signified but that he should
know why Amabel did not appear. It
was hard on the old uncle. It was a
shame ! c

That last question really made him able
to think of the matter under discussion,
and at the same moment came a flash of
recollection that this was lier grandfather
who was so kindly disposed towards him.

' You quite astonish me, uncle," he
said. "If you invited me to come to
your house in London, I should be truly
pleased, but " Here he paused.

' But you never do,' was what you were
going to add, wasn't it?" said Sir Samuel.
That is true. Well, I thought, if I did,

you might be afraid I should tempt you to
join me again."

' I never could have had such an idea,"
exclaimed Amias, very much surprised.

 Well, then, come and see me whenever
you have nothing better to do."

' I will, uncle," said Amias, with cordial
earnestness.

'For," continued the old man, I feel
sometimes a great wish to have some of
my own people about me." ('He never
shows any care to have Felix about him,"
thought Amias.) ' Tom has been away
so long."

 He'll be home soon for his long leave,"
observed Amias, conjointly.

"But he'll go to his wife's people," said
the old man. " I shall see very little of
him. His wife's people are everything to

him. And since I lost John You don't

remember John very well, do you ? "

"I was almost a child when he went

abroad," said Amias, faltering a little over
those last words. He remembered no good
of John, of course. *I can recall his face
sometimes," he added.

* Ah ! he was a fine fellow  a dear
fellow. He would have come home long
before this and been my companion," said
the father. " Tom's a good fellow too, only
he's taken up with other things. He has
been very long away, and you know the
proverb says, * Better is a neighbour that
is near, than a brother far off.' That son
John of mine  he is very far off, though
always in my thoughts."

"Why, what a strange quotation, and
what a confused speech !" thought Amias;
*but he never can bear to speak of John."
Then, intending to console, he said, "But
I am more than a mere neighbour, uncle,
you know. I am a blood relation, and
of course I cannot help feeling an affection
for you  and for Amazes grandfather

j'' was the addition in his mind. It
gave a natural and pleasant earnestness
to his tone, which was as cordial as his
feeling.

Sir Samuel smiled, and was manifestly-pleased.
' The young," he said, ' never
return the affection of the old, hut they
give them what they can, my hoy. God
less them! they give them what they
can."

Amias could not he so base as to pretend
for a moment that he had any such degree
of regard toward Sir Samuel, as the old
man had made evident toward himself;
he felt at that moment that he had always
been aware there was, according to the
proverb, a  good deal of love lost " between
them, and that now he must cultivate some
return. Amabel would make this easy, and
now he ventured to say, "Where's Amabel,
uncle, and where's Delia ? "

I left them at the Hall.  Oh ! here you

are, nephew parson. I came to find you
and you* aunt Sarah. I left the girls at the
Hall ; they are going to dine with me, and
I'll send them home at night in the carriage,
"unless yon can spare them for a few days.
In fact, I have been thinking that you
might be glad, as Mrs. Snaith is gone, if
I took them in."

Amias was desperately disappointed, but
not a word could be said by him, and Sarah
arranged the matter, and sent off her maid
in charge of the various things that they
should want.

' Come and dine with me tomorrow,
Amias," said Sir Samuel as he rode off;
and this, at least, was a consolation.

/I wonder whether it would make any
difference to his liking for me," thought
Amias, 'if he knew that I loved his favourite
granddaughter?" He revolved this in his
mind till the evening, when Dick came
home, and was extremely sulky when he

found that the girls were out ; very angry
with them, too, for accepting the invitation,
and much inclined to be uncivil to his
aunt Sarah, when she enlarged on the convenience
of the plan.

"It's a disgusting sell!" quoth Dick.
*what is a fellow to do loafing about the
place by himself? "

' In my opinion," said Aunt Sarah  'eyes !
in my opinion  a 'fellow' could not do
better than get some cow-parsley to feed
the rabbits."

"I shall feed Delia's rabbits," replied
the schoolboy; "but as to Amabel's, she
should not have left them. She is old
enough to know better."

Well, you may leave Amabel's to nee,
then," said Amias, with what was meant
to be a gracious air, but which had far
too much eagerness, and too much the
manner of one seeking for a privilege.

And what a privilege it was ! What interesting

rabbits those were ! All the information
that Dick Volunteered about them
was so delightful. ' Delia snapped' that
old doe with Amabel for two bullfinches ;
the bullfinches fought and killed one
another, and then Delia said she ought to
have the doe back again, but Amabel
wouldn't give it to her."

** x\nd very right, too," exclaimed Amias.

' But Amabel generally gets the worst of
it in all her bargains with Delia," observed
Dick. 'delia's such a shrewd little puss;
she can take anybody in."

'' Gets the better of Amabel, does she ? "

'eyes; Amabel's rather soft. However,
they both cried Hke anything when a third
of the bullfinches picked his brother's eyes
omit. That's the only thing I don't like
about girls; they're so tender-hearted.
Felix took the blind bullfinch away, and
did for him, out of their sight."

Amias inspected all the pets and helped

VOL. III. D

to feed them, waiting on chance for a word
about Amabel ; then lie went and found ibis
brother Felix.

Felix was up in the church tower. The
parish clock was unconscionably slow.
Felix was having it put right, and agreeing
with the man who had regulated it, to let
a good many of the cottagers know of the
change. He never had any alterations
made during working hours, or either the
farmers or the labourers would have felt
themselves aggrieved.

Amias looked out upon the chimneys of
the rectory house, and at the long white
road in the park that led up to the Hall.
Then the two brothers got on to a convenient
little platform on the roof and
enjoyed the cool air, for it was a hot
evening.

' I have been thinking, old fellow," said
Amias, ' about some of the things you said
this morning of Uncle Sam."

Pelix had actually forgotten for the
moment the sentence that he was alluding
to.

'The fact is," continued Amias,  I
always knew that he Heed me."

 Of course," said Felix ; ' he never sees
me without asking after you. I believe he
likes you almost as well as he does Tom."

' Well, and I like him well enough."

So I suppose. If I had to drive bargains
with him, I should not like him ; as
it is, we get on excellently well. I should
think he will take the girls away when
they are grown up."

' I have been thinking, Felix, if it really
would not annoy you at all, I should like
to do as you said this morning. I was
either to abide by your wishes, you know "
he said this half reproachfully, for Felix
did not seem quite to understand him  ' or
you said I might consult him about Ama-bel.
I think I chose amiss. I wish you

would consider that the matter has yet to
be decided."

'WeU?" said Felix.

 Of course I shall always feel that you
have been everything to the guns. If I
ever win Amabel, I shall feel deeply grateful
to you ; in fact, I do now."

 And you want to lay the matter before
old Sam instead ? "

Yes."

 You are bold."

Am I, Felix? Well, I shall ask for
nothing but his consent. He hates laying
money down. In my case he will know, for
I shall tell him, that I expect none, and in
fact "

' In what should have been the sequel to
those last words lies the gist of the matter ;
and if he is to give his beautiful grandchild
nothing, she ought not to marry a man of
very moderate means."

 Very true, Felix; but I tell you I love

her, and the more doubt there is as to his
consent, the more I feel urged to speak.
Besides, he has asked me to come and
see him in London, and expressed great
regard for me. I must not go and see him
and make myseh* as agreeable as I can, and
all the time feel that I am doing it not for
his sake but for hers."

'You are aware that I know nothing
about her parentage."

' Know nothing ? " repeated Amias.

' I conjecture a good deal, but I hioio
nothing. As I said this morning, I take for
granted that these are John's children, and
that is aU."

** Yes, Felix, I am aware of the fact. It
makes no difference to me."

'' If old Sam knows anything more, it
sometimes occurs to me that it cannot be
agreeable, or why should he keep it to
himself?"

*' I am not such a fool as to dislike

the notion of the dissenting minister's
daughter."

*' Of course not. Who is ? "

*'I have always known that there was
some sort of doubt as to their parentage."

' Some sort of doubt ? That exactly expresses
the matter; and occasionally it
occurs to me that this doubt is less a disadvantage
to them than the truth would be.
Therefore I never probe it ; I ask Uncle
Sam no questions."

*' I am astonished that the girls never ask
any."

'* They are good and pure-minded little
girls, and know little of disgrace and nothing
of sorrow. No one, by talking of either
parents, has excited any imaginary love or
fancied regrets. They do not forbear to
question, but simply no questions occur to
them."

 Old Sam always treats Amabel as hi$
granddaughter. ' '

'* And such I am persuaded site is. But
that does not prove that she has a right to
his name."

' She shall have a right to it, though,"
cried Amias, ' if she will only take it. But
you used always to feel sure that John had
married Fanny. What has made you
doubtful?"

nothing but time. In course of time
I feel that this almost must have come out.
What motive could her family have for concealing
it ? "

*' She might have run away with him."

*eyes, poor little fool, she might," said
Felix with a sigh, ' and have concealed
herself hom them; but her marriage certificate
in such a case could assuredly have
been found, if old Sam had set to work todo
it."

Why, you seem to have almost taken
for granted now that everything was as
I most wish it might not have been."

'No; it would have cost a good deal of
money to investigate the matter. I believe
he also had his doubts  chose to take the
children as they were, and also to save his
money, hoping for the best."

' Or John might have married somebody
else?"

"Even so."

Mrs. Snaith gave over their little fortunes
to you, did she not ? "

Yes, and told me nothing."

'* I am very sorry she is gone."

While Felix and Amias, as evening drew
on, sat looking over the harvest fields, and
across to the somewhat over-wooded park,
and the long, quiet mere or pool where
Amias had chased the white owl and her
chicken. Sir Samuel watched the two girls
as he sat over his claret and they flitted
about in the flower-garden, and his regret
was the very echo of his nephews'. He
thought bitterly of Mrs. Snaith. "I am

sorry she is gone," lie also repeated : revolved
in his mind how to find her, and
regretted the whole course of his own conduct
for the last twelve years.

Felix had done him no wrong. It was
mainly because he grudged the expense, that
he had made no investigations. The love
of money almost always increases with age,
and it has no relation whatever to the uses
its possessor may he supposed to intend it
for.

Money accumulated with Sir Samuel
every year. His eldest son was dead. His
son John was dead also. His son Tom was
as saving as himself. Of course he looked to
inherit a splendid fortune in the end, and
he had a theory that when he came in for
everything he should spend it freely, and
live like a prince. Sir Samuel would
willingly have increased his allowance. Tom
accepted a certain addition, and saved it.
His father was not displeased, hut he told

Mm low needless this was. He had. more
sense for his only remaining son than for
himself. He sent a very handsome sum to
his daughter-in-law, and proposed that Tom
should buy her some jewels, as they were in
the part of the world where these are finest ;
also a costly Indian shawl or so. Tom persuaded
her, who was nothing loth, to save
this also. Sir Samuel began to feel disturbed
; he himself always kept a handsome
table, a proper stable, a due staff of servants,
etc. He loved money, but he was
not a miser, and he began to fear that Tom
was.

 And I am saving all this for him, and
neglecting the claims of my dear John's
children. Ah, he was no miser," thought
the old man. *but, then, as long as that
woman stayed, what was the good of setting
expensive investigations on foot, which
would have ended in my having to make
the darlings a handsome allowance ? "

Sir Samuel never admitted the least doubt
on that head. ' I could not have let Felix
keep them for so small a sum, when once
I had 2ovecl that they were my dear John's
daughters. But I am sorry. How could
I guess that woman would run off in such
fashion ? I shall now have to bribe her to
appear, and buy the information she possesses
at whatever sum she chooses to ask for it.
I am sorry. I would do differently if my
time came over again. I suppose she
thought she had waited long enough for me
to speak. Well, so she had. She might
well be vexed that I never asked her anymore
questions, or offered her anything to
unseal her lips. How she would pull her
dark brows down when I appeared ! She
must have it her own way. She has got
the whip-hand of me now. What have I
saved by this? Why, not much, after all.
And what for ? There's the pity of it. The
love of money should always be kept within

due bounds. I am almost afraid I have
loved mine too well. The Lord have mercy
on me, if it is so, and recover me into a
better frame of mind ! "

Chapter III.

SiE Samuel went for a long drive the next
morning, and did not take Amabel and
Delia with him. He went to a hotel ina
town about twelve miles off, and there
met a man from a * private inquiry office,"
a man whom he had sent for from
London.

He wanted to have a certain woman
found for him. He would give a handsome
sum to those who could put her in communication
with him ; and they might offer
any sum that was necessary to induce her
to appear.

He began, of course, by giving her a
wrong name.

Her name was Hannah. Snaith ; lie was
a widow. She was a nurse when first he
met with her, and after that she had Heed
nearly twelve years as an upper servant in
the family of his nephew, the Eev. Felix
de Berenger. She left clandestinely, and
telegraphed to the family mary hours after
lier departure, to say that they need not
expect to see her again.

'did she leave her place through any
fault?"

He did not think so.

* Had she left anything behind her 
books, clothes, letters ? "

That he did not know.

'swell, Sir Samuel, if you should hear
that a friend of Mrs. Snaith's is making
inquiries about her in the village and at
the rectory, you will not be uneasy. Anything
that I gather up you will learn of
me by letter from a distance, and nobody
hereabouts will know that you had anything
to do with my inquiries."

Sir Samuel then lead his knicheon, and
drove home again ; but before he reached
his gates, a man, traveling by railroad,
walked down the village, and called at the
back door of the rectory.

Mrs. Jolliffe opened it, and he asked for
Mrs. Snaith's address.

Mrs. Jolliffe was sorry she could not give
it. Was he a friend of Mrs. Snaith's ?

' Yes, he was very much her friend. He
wanted to tell her of something to her
advantage. In fact, if he was not mistaken,
an advertisement would come out
in the Daily Telegraph the next day, setting
forth that if Hannah Snaith, lately in
the service of the Eev. F. de Berenger,

would apply to , and certain friends

named in the advertisement, she would hear
of something to her advantage."

Mrs. Jolliffe was deeply interested. '' If
you'd put it in an Ipswich paper, now,"
she observed, "instead of a London one,

'twould have been more likely to meet lier
eye."

' You think so ? "

*eyes, because she always took an Ipswich
paper."

Here was a valuable clue. Mrs. Jolliffe
would by no means have given it, if she
had known that this man wanted to find
Mrs. Snaith, whether she would or not.

The man felt his way. ' Ah, true, it
would have been better. An Ipswich paper ?
"Which was it, I wonder ? There are mostly
two, one on each side." He seemed to be
questioning more with himself than with
Mrs. Jolliffe. ' When there's a nice little
sum of money lying ready for her, it seems
hard she should miss it, just for the sake
of not knowing."

Mrs. Jolliffe asked him in ; and out of
a drawer in the adjoining room forthwith
produced several copies of the Suffolk
Chronicle,

* She was a widow ? "

Mrs. Jolliffe's manner became cold and
rather stiff. '' She was very respectable ;
I should judge she was a widow. But if
you are an old friend, I should judge you
should know."

'did she leave anything behind her 
clothes, letters, books, or what not ? "

'eyes, everything she had."

Could you let me see them ? "

Certainly not, sii, unless Mr. de Be-render
knew of it."

Oh, I wouldn't think of putting you to
the inconvenience of asking him."

You can keep the old newspapers, sir,
if you like. Do you think the money is
coming to her from Australia ? "

Why should it ? "

*' Well, to be sure, she never said she
had friends out there ; but, then, she was a
close woman  wonderfully close."

Well" taking out a pencil ' a shall

VOL. UI. E

advertise for her in the Ipswich papers, as
yon think she came from those parts."

*' I never said a word of the sort, sir."

**Bnt if her letters chiefly came from
there?"

' If you'll believe me, sir," said Mrs.
Jolliffe, ' she never had a letter from year's
end to year's end."

' It's usual to put in the maiden name as
well, in an advertisement of that sort. Let
me see  how did she spell it ? "

 I thought you said you was an old
friend," said Mrs. Jolliffe ; '' and you seem to
know less about her than I do. Well, I
don't rightly remember how she spelt it."

The man looked angry. 'I shouldn't
have thought you would have stood in the
light of your friend," he said; but he did not
like to ask what the name was.

Now, Mrs. JolHffe was not very great at
her spelling, but, feeling herself reproved, she
found a way out of her difficulty. ' I have

no call that I see to go over every letter of
it to you," she observed ; '' if I just tell you
it was Goodrich, you may write it down
yourself and make the best you can of it."

Having said this, she immediately felt
angry with herder, remembering afresh that
it was odd this * old friend" should not
know more concerning Mrs. Snaith.

' Then you think you cannot help meany
further?" said the man, blandly, but by
no means intending to go.

* I don't see but what you can find any
woman by as much as I have told," said
Mrs. JoUiffe, " if she wants to be found."

'' And why should she not want to be
found?"

"How should I know? I never heard a
word breathed to her disadvantage," said
Mrs. JoUiffe, shortly. " I suppose you'll say
next that I told you she wanted to hide herself."


After this nothing prospered with the

Library



visitor. He soon put Mrs. JoUiffe into a good
temper again, and induced her to talk of
Mrs. Snaith, but she either could not or
would not say any one thing that was of
the least use to him.

He went away, knowing, through Mrs.
Jolhffe, no more than this of Mrs. Snaith :
that her maiden name was Goodrich, that
she had no correspondence even with her
nearest relatives, and that she took in a
newspaper called the Suffolk Chronicle,

The copies of this paper which had been
presented to him, had all arrived during the
time that Mrs. Snaith had been at the seaside.
After anxious scrutiny the man
decided that there was nothing in them that
could help him, and he left the neighbourhood
for the present.

Sarah de Berenger was to dine with the
old baronet that evening, as well as Amias.
She entertained him as they drove over with
remarks on the sums of money that Felix

gave away in his parish. ' I suppose he
will never leave off while I live."

Amias smiled.

' Of course I shall tie it zz9," she continued.


'tie what up, aunt?" said Amias, purposely
not understanding her.

'' Why, the property, of course. Felix is
no man of business. Yes ! Dear fellow, he
must let my house ; and I shall take care to
leave all proper directions for his guidance
in my will."

''Do, when you mate it, aunt ! I don't
believe you ever have made one yet," said
Amias, smiling.

What I " exclaimed Sarah. " Never ?
What can you be thinking of ? "

You best know whether what I thought
was correct," answered Amias. " And it is
no business of mine."

I cannot imagine what put such an idea
in your head. Yes ! "

Oil, I always think so when people talk
often of their wills," said Amias. " Why,
there are the two girls walking in the park,
when it's just dinner time."

'rand why not ? " answered Sarah. ' ' There
is a dinner party to-night, and of course
they cannot he present ; they are not out''

So this was the occasion that he had
pictured to himself in such glowing colours.
A family party of five. Sir Samuel drawing
out the two girls and delighting in their
girlish talk  in Delia's little affectionate
qualities, and Amabel's sweet modesty.
He should sit and look on, and then afterwards,
when they retired in his aunt Sarah's
wake, would come the great opportunity.
He should be left alone with Amabel's
grandfather, and should ask leave to make
himself agreeable to this fairest creature.
And she was not out  not to sit at the
dinner table. Oh, what should he do ? How
ridiculous his request would appear !

Sarah was placed at the head of the
table, and a good many guests were present,
all of whom seemed to Amias to be more
or less stupid.

He was not to see Amabel, and nothing
that Felix had said produced such an effect
on him as this proof of what the world
thought concerning his sweet little schoolgirl.
But she would be in the diningroom
after dinner. Yes, there she was, she
and Delia, in white muslin frocks and blue
sashes ; she certainly did look rather young,
among the young lady guests.

She and Delia were told to play a duet,
and she was decidedly shy about it.

'poor Sir Samuel!" murmured one
stately dame to another.

The answer floated back to her so softly,
that Amias wondered it could reach him,
though he alone of the guests was standing
near. '' Lovely creatures ! I think he has
made up his mind. He loll introduce them,
you'll see."

Amias heard this, and understood all that
it implied, with an almost unbearable pang.
The deep disadvantage so slightly hinted
at, weighed his spirits down. Did everyone
take it for granted, then ? He had
thought, when he thought about it, that
their retired bringing up had kept them
out of all unkindly observation ; he was
bitterly angry with their grandfather for
the moment. Here they were for the first
time, and two women of rank, belonging to
the chief families in the county, were
familiarly hinting at their supposed position,
as if everybody knew all about it.

For the first time in his life a kind of
faintness and giddiness oppressed Amias,
that made him long for air. He stood perfectly
still for two or three minutes, gathering
strength and steadiness to move ; then,
just as he observed that his old uncle's
attention was attracted to him, he turned
toward the nearest window and got out

into the flower-garden. He walked quickly
throng it, amazed to find that he was
denouncing his uncle, and those ladies, and
John de Berenger, and his aunt Sarah
aloud ; that his passion was quite beyond
his own control, and yet that he was trembling
all over, even to the lips, so that the
angry words, that came thick and fast, were
so confused that he hardly knew them, anymore
than he did the husky voice, for his
own.

He got over that stage of feeling as he
walked vehemently on. This had been a
stunning blow. And yet what was it more
than Felix had hinted at the previous evening
? Oh, it was this more,  that then they
had seemed to have the subject all to themselves,
as if it was or might have been
sacred from all other observation, and at
least more likely than not to yield comfort
on investigation.

And now this painful thing had met with

him in a drawing-room, so gently, so dispassionately
uttered, that it seemed to admit of
no denial.

Whether truth or fiction, it was a familiar
opinion. Lady Lucy did not doubt that
Lady Anne would understand her allusion.
Lady Anne saw nothing dubious in the
situation. As Sir Samuel had been silent,
was it not manifest that there was nothing
to say ? Not that she thought so just then;
the neighbourhood had settled the matter
years ago.

So much for letting things drift. He
almost put himself in a passion again as he
thought this over, and urged his way along
the straightest drive in the park, walking
at the top of his speed as if to get away
from it. And how should he get away ? He
could not bear to think she should ever
know what was said. He would emigrate
with his darling ; he would expatriate himself,
that no disadvantage might ever attach

to her or to their children. But what if
she should find it out, and the thought
should distress and sully her maiden heart ?

How powerless he was ! What should he
do ? He had walked beyond the confines
of the park before he came to himself. His
passionate emotion was over. He Wondered
at them all, at their inconceivable inertness
and obtuseness. Nothing had been said, as
was evident, and no awkward questions
were ever asked ; but these circumstances
ought alone to have been enough to show
what was felt.

His heart bled. It would be better for
him to give up all hope. Sir Samuel was no
fool ; he did know, and know the worst.

He got back to the same open window
that he had left, just as the last carriage
full of guests drove off in the mild summer
moonlight. Sir Samuel met him, seemed to
have been waiting for him.

Servants were in the room, putting out

the ligMs in the chandeliers. One preceded
them into Sir Samuel's own study,
carrying a lamp. Amias sank into a chair,
and the moment they were alone, "What,
in the name of Heaven, is the matter,
Amias? You staggered out of the room!"
exclaimed Sir Samuel. "A walk at this
time of night, and such a walk  and now
you look What is it, my dear fellow ? "

There was alarm and there was wonder
in the voice.

You are ill ; you want some wine."

' No, I don't," said Amias. "Let me
alone, uncle."

There was a knock at the door, and Sarah
de Berenger came in. Both she and Amias
were to sleep that night at the Hall. Sarah
said she wanted some letter-paper ; the notepaper
in her bedroom was not large enough
for her purpose. Amias was sitting listlessly,
with hands in his pockets, pale, and his great
brown eyes wider open than usual ; but the

shaded lamp made these circumstances less
evident, or Sarah's mind was full of other
things, for she scarcely noticed his presence.
She took a few sheets of paper and withdrew
to her own room, and then and there
she made her will for the first and only
time.

Amias put his hand to his throat ; his lips
were dry and parched.

'what is the matter?" asked the old
man, with sympathetic gentleness.

'matter!" repeated Amias. "Matter,
uncle ! You have let me love Amabel and
never told me."

Sir Samuel gazed at him.

How could you be so cruel ! " he continued,
in a husky voice. " Not that it
makes any difference. I would, I must have
loved her just the same, but you might have
given me warning ; I should have been prepared."
He spread out his hands before
him, as if to express his helplessness.

Sir Samuel thought of his own morning
interview at the hotel with confused alarm.
Could the man possibly have come back and
told Amias anything ?

He brought his nephew a glass of water
from a giraffe which was standing on the
table, and gave it to him with a trembling
hand. ' What have you heard? " he muttered.


Amias mastered himself and told it.

Then Sir Samuel put himself into just
such a passion as Amias had done, and reddened
to the roots of his white hair. He
too denounced everybody he could think of,
but it seemed to Amias mere bluster ; the
conviction had so thoroughly forced itself
on him during his walk, that his uncle must
have investigated everything.

Only tell me what I have to hear at
once," he said, and was amazed at himself
when he heard a sound of sobbing, which he
scarcely knew to be his own, till he felt the
hot tears splashing on his hands.

 T have nothing certain to tell, Amias,
my boy," said the old uncle, almost
piteously.

' What, all yom' investigations have been
fruitless?"

' No, Amias  no ; but till this morning
(there seemed no occasion) I never made
any."

'then it was true what Felix said!"
exclaimed Amias, with scathing scorn. 'you
sat down in presence of this doubt, and
grudged the money to be spent on giving
a name to your own granddaughter." He
was choked here with both emotion and
passion, but astonishment enabled him to
subdue the one and swallow the other,
when the old man took out his handkerchief
and wept quietly, sitting opposite to
him, and finding for some moments not a
word of answer.

"It's true, Amias," he said at last, humbly
and despondingly. "I don't understand

how it was, but I did let things drift ; only
yon must remember I might have solved
the doubt the wrong way. I might "

This seemed to Amias now so more than
Hkely, that it brought him to reason again.

'uncle, I beg your pardon," he sighed
out, for it distressed him to see the old man
so utterly subdued. '' I had no right to be
so violent. The wrong you have done is
not against me, but against them, and
against yourself. How could you know 
sweet creature !  that I loved her ? "

'' And it will be a great blow to my dear
little girl if she hears this opinion. She is
a very modest girl, and very religious."

'eyes, I know."

She will be greatly shocked if she hears
that her mother was a disgrace to her. But
I hope for the best. She is almost a child.
There is ample time for the uttermost to be
done that can be done, Amias, before you
can come forward ; and though you have

confided your love to me, I hold you to
nothing, considering the circumstances."

 I meant to ask you for her," said
Amias ; ' and hoped to show you that,
though she was somewhat above me, I had
reasonable hope of being able to maintain
her in comfort by the time she was old
enough to bless me with her hand. But if
she is a poor little waif, that a man may
take and thank no father, but only God, for
her, I desire no more of you than that you
take her and her sister quite away from
this neighbourhood, and put them to a good
school, so that all knowledge that would
be bitterness to them is kept far away. In
the mean time, I shall try to get something
to do abroad, in Canada, or  well, I hardly
know where I can go that ill news may
not reach her. She may boast of her
family, and bring out the truth, but I'll do
my best."

 It's not the time to say that I should

VOL. III. F

be well pleased, if all proves right, to give

her to you " began Sir Samuel.

'' Yes, it is, uncle," interrupted Amias.
I feel more glad of the regard that I know
you feel for me, than I ever did before.
I know very well that you are the only
human being that can truly sympathize
with me now."

sand if there's anything in reason, or
not in reason, that I can settle on her, to

make it up to you ' ' and then he paused,

suddenly remembering the affair of the
necklace.

' I don't want anything," said Amias,
pointedly. ' Spend her fortune in finding
me a good mother for her."

Extraordinary as it may seem, this
speech actually raised the old man's spirits.
Though he knew that some of his descendants
must have his money, having to settle
anything, even on his favourite Amabel,
during his lifetime, he could not contemplate

mtlioiit a pang. He would have done
it ; but to be told it was not needed, was
balm.

Amias sat a few minutes, getting the
mastery over himself and recovering his
manhood ; but the side issue raised about
the money had a strange attraction for the
poor old man.

'' She has a trifle of her own already,"
he said ; " and people are never the worse
for beginning on small means."

And she has never been accustomed to
luxury. Then you have begun some investigations
? What are they ? " asked
Amias.

Sir Samuel told him. But Amias wanted
a mother, not a nurse. He wanted an unimpeachable
marriage register, and proposed
that such a sum should be offered as would
have set every parish clerk in the three
kingdoms searching or forging; then he
wearily gave it up, remembering that, if it

brought nothing else, it would bring the-most
undesired publicity.

It was very late when the old great-unclean
Amias went, each his way, to his own
apartment. Sir Samuel spent a miserable
night, reviewing his own past conduct,
wondering at himself, and not at all aware
that the instinct of avoiding all outlay of
money was so strong in him, that if parallel
circumstances should occur, he would da
the like thing again, in spite of this warning.
Amias had exhausted himself, as much
by exertion as by expression, and he slept
profoundly.

He was just about to go down to breakfast
the next morning, when his aunt's
maid knocked at his door, and said Miss
de Berenger begged that he would go first
to a little morning-room that she always
had the use of when she was at the Hall.

He found his aunt there, and Sir Samuel.
*eyes," said Sarah, looking very much

flustered, and not a little important, '' I
wanted you to witness the signature of this
document for me, Amias  in short, my
will."

Sarah's will was such a joke in the family,
that, in spite of then discussion the night
before, Sir Samuel and Amias exchanged
amused glances on hearing this.

She tossed back her curls. "Yes, and
Peach "  Peach was her old maid  " Peach
shall be the other witness."

So then, with as many flourishes and as
much fuss as could be got out of the occasion,
the document was duly signed and
witnessed.

"I deliver this," said Sarah, with awful
emphasis, " as my act and deed."

Peach, as nobody else spoke, murmured,
" Very well, ma'am."

Then the document was sealed up in a
large envelope by Sii* Samuel, who carried
it downstau's. Sarah, Amias, and Peach

followed. The latter seemed to think that
she head not done with it yet. Sir Samuel
opened an iron safe, and pnt in the document.
Peach looked on, and when she saw
it lying in state among several other documents,
on a little iron shelf, she appeared
satisfied, and, curtsying, withdrew.

Sarah followed, to tell her on no account
to mention what had happened.

This time," said Sir Samuel, ' she can
have left nothing to you, Amias, my hoy.
I am sorry. How many wills does this
make, I wonder ? "

' One," answered Amias, decidedly. * And
I think she has left her property to Felix ;
she intimated to me yesterday that she
should."

'well, so long as she leaves it to one
of you, I do not care ; but, last week, she

talked of building a fine new spire for D

minster."

Chapter IV.

After breakfast that morning the two girls
were sent out for a ride, under charge of an
old coachman, and Sarah was fetched into
Sir Samuel's own peculiar den, which he
called his study, that she might tell him, in
the presence of Amias, all she could remember
as to her first finding of Amabel
and DeHa. To describe her delight when
she found that there was a love-story going
on under her very eyes, and to describe the
trouble she gave, both to the old man and
the young man, would be needlessly to try
the patience of any other man, or woman
either. She yielded up her testimony with

SO much besides ; she doubled back on what
she had told with so many confusing comments
; she took so much for granted, and
she was so positive in all her conclusions,
that it was not till Amias took a large sheet
of paper, and, sifting out the bare facts, wrote
them down, that even Sir Samuel knew on
what a slender foundation he had taken for
granted that Amabel and Delia were his
granddaughters. But Sarah, though to the
last degree romantic and unpractical, had
an accurate memory, and was not untruthful.
She was vexed, even to the point of shedding
tears, when Amias, having done questioning
her, asked Sir Samuel if he would stand an
examination also ; and she could not help
seeing that Amias was yet more anxious to
prove that the children were no relation at
all to her, than she had ever been to show
the contrary.

Sir Samuel was very direct and straightforward.


Amias read over his own selections from
the evidence, and his countenance cleared.

'The matter seems to stand thus," he
said. '' Aunt Sarah saw two little girls at the
seaside, forty miles from her home. Their
name was De Berenger. She asked if they
were John's children ; their nurse declared
that they where not  that they were no
relation whatever to our family. The nurse
took them away. Two years after this Aunt
Sarah saw them again, with the same nurse,
who told the same story. Aunt Sarah after
this Wrote and urged the nurse to bring
them here. The nurse did so ; but she
told JoUiffe she came in order to get away
from scarlet-fever, which was in a village
where she had been living with them. She
always said she had the sole charge of them.
Aunt Sarah told Uncle Samuel of them,
and he went to see them. The nurse declared
to him also that they were not
related to him, and that he owed them no

SAKAH DE BEEENGEK.

kindness at all. She professed not to have
heard of such a person as Mr. John de
Berenger; but during the same interview
she proposed to get a letter forwarded to
him, and did it. Three years after this she
gave over to Felix the money that had been
entrusted to her for their maintenance, and
he became their guardian. The nurse declared
that the children were born in wedlock,
and that she could easily prove it if
she pleased.  Now' said Amias, after reading
aloud, shave you, uncle, or have you,
aunt, anything to add to this ? "

Sir Samuel said "No." Miss de Berenger
added a good many opinions and sentiments,
and also some reproaches to Amias.

'but have you any fact to add?" he
persisted.

"Yes, the fact that Felix believes they
are John's children."

But you made him think so, aunt. And
why are these sweet and lovely creatures to

have their status in society taken from
them, and their honest descent called in
question, that you may indulge a romantic
fancy, after dragging them here that their
Httle fortunes might help to educate Dick,
and eke out our housekeeping ? "

' That is a very cruel way of putting it,
Amias," said Sarah, wiping her eyes, * as
well as depriving my dear uncle of his
grandchildren."

'If they are the grandchildren of this
house," said Amias, ' let the grandfather
prove it; hut, till then, all justice and mercy
make it incumbent on us, not to give them
the benefit of the doubt, but of the positive
and repeated assertions of this woman that
they are not related to us at all."

'show could she get a letter sent to
John if she knew nothing about him ? "

*' I have known for years that my cousin
John had communication with people here.
He wanted sometimes to hear about his
father, and one or two other people."

'' Who told you that ? " asked Sir Samuel,
pleased to think that his much-loved son
should have cared to hear of him, and
not thinking much about those ' other
people."

'Jolliffe knew it, uncle. I have heard
her hint over and over again, that such and
such things would be known to Mr. John
very shortly."

'rand you never told me," cried Sir
Samuel.

'' I was a mere child, uncle, and I cannot
say I had any distinct idea that you did not
know his address; besides, children seldom
or ever do tell things that they suppose to
be matters of secrecy."

'' There was always known to be a
mystery about those children," Sarah now
said. '' Yes, you must admit that there was
great secrecy, Amias. They know nothing
whatever about their parents, and the nurse
told nothing excepting  yes, she told that

lie brought them from London. She told
it to the woman whose lodgings I first saw
her in."

Why should they not have been the
children of some petty London tradesman,,
then  a baker, a green grocer?" observed
Amias.

'' Why should they ? " cried Sarah, very
indignant at such a supposition.

' Let him alone, Sarah," exclaimed Sir
Samuel ; ' he has as much right to his suppositions
as Ave had to ours, and they are
much kinder."

Amias turned to the old man. ' Well, I
thought it might be so, because the sum
left for maintaining them is so small. The
woman, dragged by you. Aunt Sarah, among
people of superior class, may have felt that
to have their antecedents known, would
be a disadvantage to the children. This
trumpery motive may alone have kept her
silent. The mother might have been a

dressmaker, and the father a cobbler, for
anything we know."

' Precious creatures!" cried Sarah; 'sand
here they come. They look like a petty
tradesman's daughters, don't they?" And
she rose and bustled out of the room to
receive the girls. To do her justice, she
had a keen and tender affection for them ;
they were the only young things that had
ever fallen at all under her dominion, and
besides, they were so pretty.

Sir Samuel looked at them. Delia's
dimpled face was rosy with exercise, Ama-bel
had her usual sweet pensiveness of
expression. It seemed so suitable a look
for the circumstances under discussion, if
she had but known them. There was a portrait
of John over the chimney-piece. Sir
Samuel turned, and, leaning on the back of
his chair, looked up at it. His deep and
enduring affection for this favourite son
had been one main reason, for the interest

he lead taken iu Amabel and Delia. He
had pleased himself with the thought that
they resembled John. Amias also looked
lip ; remembered what a bad fellow John
had been, acknowledged a certain likeness
in hue and in delicacy of appearance, but
not in beauty, expression, or grace. The
portrait pater had done his best, but only
the bereaved and unsatisfied affection of
the father could have imparted anything
noble and lovable to the commonplace
face.

We all try to be merciful to the delusions
that come of love. Amias felt a pang of
pity when he said, ' Uncle, I hope you
have not thought me unkind ? "

''No, Amias, no. You must think of
yourself, and of them. I promised you
they should go to school, and they must."

' And in the mean time we must make
long investigations ; then, if we are so happy
as to bring them home as your granddaughters,

with a full and proved right to
your name, you will not be more deeply
thankful than I shall."

' The girls may know something about
themselves that they never told us," observed
Sir Samuel. ' Who knows what
the nurse may have said to them before
she went away ; or, indeed, what recollections
they may have of their infancy ? "

 Aunt Sarah is not the proper person
to question them, and Felix would make a
sad bungle of it ; but, of course, it should
be done."

* A very delicate matter to manage. Do
you want me to undertake it ? "

"IfyouwilL"

But it did not prove half so difficult as
might have been expected.

Soon after luncheon, Amias drove his
aunt Sarah back to the rectory. All prudence
and propriety now made him feel that
to say anything decisive to Amabel was out

of the question. She was to go to school.
He must go to school, too  a much harder
one. That she did not take leave of him
without a fluctuating blush, and a good
deal of agitation, he might well be pardoned
for perceiving ; for her feeling, whether it
was disappointment, or maiden shyness, or
presentiment of some deeper affection, was
not successfully concealed.

They all, as by one consent, went into
Sir Samuel's study, for there Sarah's pony-carriage
could be seen, and Sarah, with her
nodding feathers, and Amias. Then, when
they were out of sight, and there was
nothing to do, Delia asked if they might
stay, and Amabel wanted to mend the pens ;
Coz had taught her how to do them.

* Ah, and so you saw Coz this morning?"

Yes, because we wanted to hear whether
there was any letter from Mrs. Snaith."

'* And was there, my little girl ? "

No."

VOL. III. G

shad she ever led you to expect that
she should go and leave you ? "

' When she was unwell, just before she
went to the sea, she once or twice said
things to Delia. She often said things to
Delia."

*Ah, indeed! I wonder what they were?"

Delia was seated beside Sir Samuel, on
a sofa ; he had always petted her a good
deal. She was now smoothing the top of
his velvet sleeve with her little dimpled
hand ; pleased with its softness, she next
laid her cheek against it. Sir Samuel
looked down at her childlike, untroubled
face, as she lifted it up. "I don't love
anybody so much as you," she said; and
she leaned her cheek against his coat again,
with a certain fondness by no means devoid
of reverence. "But Mamsey always said,
The baronet is very kind to you. Miss
Delia ; but he has no* call to be, unless he
chooses.' "

The old story !

*' Did she, my pet. And what answer did
you make to that ? "

*'I said I should love you as much as
I pleased; so did Amabel."

'sand what was it that she said when
she was ill ? "

'* She said she had had a vast deal of
trouble in life, and sometimes she could
hardly bear to think of it; we should be
surprised if we could know what she had
gone through. But if she ever had to
leave us, we were to be sure she loved us
all the same, and she hoped we never should
forget her."

* And we never shall," Amabel put in ;
'but still, we did not suppose she would
really go."

Sir Samuel was not at all interested
either in the nurse's misfortunes or her
affection. He brought the conversation
round again, and said, in a cheerful voice.

but with a pang at his old heart, ' And so
she said I had  no call ' to love you. Did
she never tell you anything more ? "

Delia's face took on a more tender expression,
and Amabel said, '' She told us
once  a long time ago  something more. I
was a little girl then, and I was ill. It
was in the night, and I cried and said I
wanted a mamma too, like other little girls,
that she might pet me ; and then Mamsey
cried."

Well tell me what else took place."

 Delia woke, and got into my bed to
comfort me ; and Mrs. Snaith cried a longtime,
and said she took it unkind that we
should fret after a mother, when she had
always been so kind to us. Then she said
that our mother was not such a mamma as
I had wished for. And she told us that
our mother was not a lady."

Sir Samuel started, in spite of himself.
Surely this was bad news. He knew not

how to ask any further question, but Amabel
presently continued 

'but she said it would be very shocking
and very ungrateful to God if we were ever
ashamed of her, of our poor mother (who
had never done any wrong to us or to anyone).
And she should pray for us that we
never might be."

"Did she tell you when your mother
died?" asked Sir Samuel.

No ; but it must have been when we
were almost babies, for neither of us
remember her. Mrs. Snaith said, ' Your
poor mother was a most unhappy wife ; your
father was not kind to her.' "

"Is that all?"

Yes, that is the very whole."

"Excepting about the picture," observed
Amabel, in correction, and she looked up
at the portrait over the chimney-piece.
"When you were in London we came here
once with Mrs. Snaith, and she saw it'"

WeU? Speak, my dear."

*yon should not have told that," said
Delia, her face covered with blushes.

' I wish particularly to know what Mrs.
Snaith said."

 It was rude, though."

'No matter."

 She said he was a shabby-looking little
man, and had sloping shoulders."

Sir Samuel was wroth, and reddened.

'* "Well, what next ? " he inquired.

** Delia whispered to her, * Mamsey, did
you ever see our father ? ' "

 Well, my dear little girl, go on."

** She said she had seen him, and he had
a handsome face  a beautiful face  and a
brown moustache." When Delia had said
this she burst into tears, and when she had
wiped them away, she pressed her cheek
again against Sir Samuel's sleeves, and
said, "But I wish we could be something
to you somelioiv,'

The brown moustache had plunged Sir
Samuel afresh into his delusion.  John
wore one," he thought,  some years after
that portrait was taken, and when he was
a more personable and finer man."

* Now Hasten to me, my dear little girls,"
he said cheerfully.  Are you quite certain
that Mrs. Snaith never happened to mention
to you what church or what town your
mother and father were married in ? "

*'No, she never did."

' Did you never ask her any questions,
my dears? "

 Yes, when Aunt Sarah told us."

** And what did she say ? "

'* Sometimes she would say, ' I am not
half such a fooHsh woman as Miss de
Berenger takes me for.' "

sphere the mystery crops up again,"
thought Sir Samuel. 'what could that
woman's motive be ? "

'' And so the main thing Mrs. Snaith told

you, was that your mother was a good
woman, but not in the same rank of life as
your father."

He did not intend to misrepresent
matters when he said this, and DeHa
answered, in all simplicity, ' She used
sometimes to make use of strange phrases,
and she said ' '

WeU, she said?"

 She said a true church parson put on
your mother's ring, and you have no call to
think about your father at all."

Sir Samuel here lifted Delia's sweet face
and kissed it ; then he kissed Amabel. ' Unless
I find out something more, and can prove
that these dear children are mine, as they
should be, or as they should not be, I have
no call,' as that woman said, to give them
anything." This was his thought. All his
thoughts about money matters were serious,
and almost solemn. How little he knew
when he said this, that every morning of

lier life, when 'that woman" prayed, she
besought of God that he never might so
mistake matters as to leave her children
anything that ought not to come to them !

Her prayer was answered at that moment.
Sir Samuel had received affection, and
given it. He had received pleasure, and
given it ; so far all was fan*. He had taken
no trouble, and he was to give none. The
only time he was ever to interfere in their
concerns was to be for good.

And what about those investigations ?

At first he paid money to make them,
and they always failed. Where he heard
that there were people of his own name,
he looked them up ; but as time went on
he tried more and more to do this cheaply,
and at last he first forbore them, and then
justified it. For Amias was at work himself.
Sir Samuel knew this, and why should
the same thing be paid for twice over ?

Amias left his brother the next morning

without having said anything to him on this
subject ; he seemed to be in such low spirits,
that Felix took for granted there had been
some objection made by the old man to the
proposed engagement. There might be
another cause, and that Felix took care not
to investigate.

Amias went away, and a few days after
the two girls were brought home by Sir
Samuel, who afterwards privately, to the
great astonishment of Felix, said that he
and Amias wished them now to spend a
couple of years at school. He produced
a cheque for so much more than Felix could
have thought needful, and gave it with so
much composure, that for a few minutes
astonishment at the proposal was lost in
astonishment at this unwonted conduct.

' I am not sure that I shall wish them to
go," he said, after examining the cheque
with deep but perfectly unconscious scrutiny.
He had taken the children into his charge

through the management of Sarah, he had
gradually got used to them, then become
fond of them, and now they were almost his
sole amusement and delight.

He expressed this to Sir Samuel, who in
return, and not without putting himself
into a passion over the story of what his
two guests had said, related all that had
passed, including what the two girls themselves
had told him,

' Seven hundred pounds is a great deal to
spend upon two years at school," said Felix,
who was a good deal nettled at being thus
set at nought, and expected to do exactly
as other people chose  other people who
had taken no trouble about the girls, and
incurred no responsibility.

But the matter was soon so set before
him, that he saw himseK the wisdom of the
step. The thing must be done, and in less
than a month it was done. The most ample
inquiries were made, the most excellent

references required ; a handsome outfit, with
every Httle luxury and comfort, was bought
for the girls under Sarah's superintendence,
and Felix, after taking them to the lady who
was to have the charge of them, found himself
at home again, ' monarch of all he
surveyed," walking about his solitary garden,
called in to his solitary meals, and wondering
what to do with himself.

Chapter Y.

Amabel and Delia were extremely happy
with their girl companions ; they made very
fair progress under the masters provided for
them. Amahel grew more beautiful, and
Delia taller and more graceful, and, as is the
way with youth, they both lived a good deal
in the present. They ceased to want Mrs.
Snaith, and they did very well without Coz.
Of course the rectory was still home, and
Coz was in their thoughts and what he
would think, when they were reproved for
any little acts of idleness or inattention, but
Sir Samuel, now they neither heard of him
nor from him, receded into the background
of their minds. So did not Amias or Dick.

They did not come home for Christmas,
and would have been greatly surprised if
they could have known the long discussions
there were between Sir Samuel, Sarah, and
Felix, as to where their midsummer holidays
should be spent.

Nothing concerning their parentage had
been discovered. Mrs. Snaith could not be
found, and there was a great wish that they
should not return till something certain was
known about them.

Tom de Berenger came home soon after
Christmas, with his wife and another infant
daughter. He had all his father's kindly,
pleasant manner, and far more than his
father's love of money. He was almost a
miser, and one of his first conversations
with Felix was a remonstrance.

How could Felix have allowed such a
lavish house to be kept at the Hall ? Such
servants, such waste ; and never, as a clergyman,
have lifted up his voice against it !

Mrs. Tom de Berenger had so completely
adopted her husband's views, that she never
spent a shilling where sixpence could be
made to do, and all her discourse was on
prudence, moderation, and economy; interesting
subjects when there is need to
exercise them, but rather out of place where
a wise liberality, hospitable fashions, and
pubic spirited generosity are more to the
point.

Nothing in his long life had taken such
effect on him, as the behaviour and discourse
of his son and his daughter-in-law took on
Sir Samuel. He saw himself, caricatured ; he
was exceedingly ashamed, both for himself
and for them. For Tom could discuss even
at table, with all earnestness, the wasteful
way in which windfall apples and pears
were left under the trees, and he did not
hesitate to say that '' there were a great
many more vegetable marrows grown than
could be used in the household."

Sir Samuel, though a hot-tempered man,
had great self-control, and each, of his sons,
one after the other, had kept that virtue in
full exercise. He would redden sometimes,
when his daughter-in-law would strike
in after Tom, and agree with melancholy
emphasis ; but he generally managed either
to hold his tongue or to master his temper,
and rally his son with tolerable equanimity.
But Tom de Berenger was one of those
provoking people who are almost always
serious ; he would try to argue the most
minute points of economy with his father,
not perceiving that, whether he was right
or wrong, his noticing such things at all
was mortifying and ridiculous. Then, when
the old man was secretly fretted almost
past bearing by such discussions before his
servants and his guests, Tom would make
him break out at last by some finishing
touch, that left it hard for other auditors
to keep their countenances.

There was nothing in the nature of expenditure
that was not important and
interesting to him  from the fires in the
saddle-rooms to the wasted ends of wax-candles.


He was a good deal out of health, and
that circumstance helped his father to be
forbearing. He bore a great deal. John
had never led him such a life as Tom did,
and Tom was not half so bad as Tom's wife.

There were three nice little girls, to be
sure  good, obedient children; and there was
the baby, also a girl. Sometimes Sir Samuel
would say something kind to their father
about them. ' You'll have one of the right
sort by-and-by, my lad." 'eyes," the poor
fellow would answer, with a sigh, " a man
had need exercise all due economy who has
such a family  four daughters already  and
most likely four sons coming, or four more
daughters."

They had naturally, and by Sir Samuel's

VOL. III. H

own desire, taken up their abode at the
Hall with him, and were all supposed to
find their family reunion a great blessing
and comfort, but when Parliament met,
Sir Samuel went to town with a certain
alacrity, though Tom was to remain in
the country, London smoke not suiting
his delicate chest.

Amias often dined with Sir Samuel in
London. His reticence as to Tom's peculiarities
could not be exceeded. He had got
his only child home again ; come what
might, he was determined to make the best
of him. Tom had no debts ; he was, excepting
one little foible, everything that
a father could desire. How much better
that he should be such as he was, than a
gambler or a spendthrift ! He was a family
man, a model father and husband. " If I
only see a grandson, I shall have all that
a man can wish for in this world," Sir
Samuel would often say to himself. And

Amias, knowing all about his troubles when
in the country, cautiously forbore to ask
any awkward questions ; Felix having let
him know that the heir went round everyday
to the greenhouses and forcing-houses,
to see that the gardeners did not use too
much coal and coke. He was said to have
poked a lump out here and there that he
thought superfluous ; and everybody heard
this anecdote concerning him, excepting
his father.

After the Easter recess. Sir Samuel came
to town again, looking rather worried. He
had gone through a good deal, and was very
glad to find that Tom and his wife meant
to go to Clifton for a few weeks. Tom had
a nasty cough ; his wife wanted him to try
the air there, and stay with her mother.

This was all that Amias heard about the
matter. He knew his uncle was in town, and
meant to go and see him, but he was busy,
and had not accomplished the visits, when

one morning, just as he had. finished his
breakfast, Felix, who had come up to town
for a few days, being with him, a telegram
was brought in from the old uncle's head
servant.

*will you please, sir, come and see Sir
Samuel? We have lost Mr. de Berenger.
He died at midnight."

*lost Mr. de Berenger ! "

How terrible it seemed, when, not two
minutes previously, they had been making
merry over his peculiarities ! Felix, so far
as the title was concerned, and the very
small portion of the property that was
entailed, was the heir. Neither of them
forgot that.

** I had better not see the poor old man,"
said Felix.

*but I shall be glad if you will come
with me to the house," said Amias. ''He
may prefer to give directions to you."

'* He never will " said Felix.

When they reached the house, Sarah and
some weeping women servants met them in
the hall. They asked how the calamity
had happened. ' He broke a blood-vessel,"
she whispered, sand only lived a few hours.
They fetched his father from the House to
hear this awful news."

Amias felt his heart and courage sink,
as he turned the lock of the library door,
and entered it alone.

Sir Samuel was seated on a sofa, with
his hands clasping his knees, and his head
down. One small leaf of the shutter behind
him had been folded back, and a narrow
beam of sunshine streamed down from the
aperture. Otherwise, nothing had been
changed since the previous night, and a
lamp was still burning on the table.

Amias sat down, and had not a word to
say. He felt perfectly powerless to find
any consolation for such a calamity as this.

The old uncle appeared to notice his

presence, for in two or three minutes he
slowly lifted his head, and looking at him
with a puzzled and half-stupefied air, said,
*I thought yoa would come." Then he
added, in a low, inward voice, " It was one
o'clock when they fetched me home ; hut "
 spreading his hands about  ' it was no
use,  I had no son to send my answer to."

Amias was distressed for him to the point
of shedding two or three compassionate
tears, and they did more for the desolate
old man than any words could have accomplished.
At the sight of human emotion
and pity, he seemed to wake up from the
stupor that was killing him, and, as if by
imitation of another, to thaw, and be no
more a statue, but a man.

He was able to weep for his lost son 
his last child : but the suddenness of the
blow had almost prostrated him ; his mind
was confused, and his speech was thick.

Is there anything I can do for you ?

Are there any arrangements that you
would wish me to make ? or shall Felix
make them ? " asked Amias, afterwards.

*' Felix may go to Clifton, and do 
whatever he pleases. You must stay with
me."

''YouwHlnot see FeHx ? "

Certainly not. I have enough to bear
without seeing him."

' He will not like to act without some
instructions."

' Then I leave you two to arrange matters
between you. Yoic know that I shall
be satisfied."

So the two cousins of this poor miser,
having leave to do what they thought fitting
for the only son and heir of the now
desolate father, had his body brought home
to Sir Samuel's country house, invited a
number of guests, and had him buried with
even more state and pomp than is usual.
Considering that one of them was, in part.

his heir, and that the other had been almost
his rival in the old man's affections, this
seemed to them to be the proper thing
to do.

Amias brought the father down to attend
the funeral, and Felix read the service.

'' It was a grand burying," said one of
the admiring crowd. *' But, dear sakes !
how he would have grudged the expense,
poor gentleman, if he had known ! "

Sir Samuel went back to his desolate
home. His son's widow and her four
children soon joined him, and the former
made him as miserable by her jealousy of
the two nephews as she had done previously
by her parsimony."

*' She never lets me have a quiet hour,"
he said to Felix; ' she's always hinting
that her poor children are nothing to me,
compared with Amias and you."

You might at least tell her that she
has no cause for jealousy as far as I am

concerned," replied Felix, in his most dispassionate
manner. "But as to Amias 
I think I should be jealous of Amias, if I
were in her place."

She ought not to grudge me what little
comfort I have left in this world."

'' Then you should not leave her in any
doubt, uncle, but tell her plainly what
splendid provision there is for her and her
children."

I want Amias to live in my house
always when I am in London."

Then, when Felix was silent, he went on.

' You don't suppose his temperance notions
would annoy me ? Besides, I have told
you before, that I mean to retire, if I can
get a good offer for the concern. Wby
should I keep it up any longer  that is, if
I can sell it advantageously ? "

Felix being still silent, he said, with irritation,
" But you understand nothing of
business, nephew parson."

'I can fully understand that, at your
age, and with your considerable wealth, it
must be best for you to retire."

He then inquired about Amabel and
Delia.

FeHx confessed that he could not decide
where to take them for their midsummer
holidays, but that he did not mean to be
parted from them during that time.

Sir Samuel replied that Mrs. de Berenger
wanted to take her children to the sea ;
and as his affliction had been so recent,
there would be no visitors at his house ;
therefore the whole party, including Amias
and Dick, had better come and stay with
him.

If Mrs. de Berenger was to be absent, Felix
felt that the girls would be safe from risk
of hearing anything that he wished to shield
them from. She was the only person likely
to speak. But he did not care to leave his
own home, though he promised to bring

the girls frequently to see  " to see their
kind old friend," he concluded, after a
pause.

In the mean time, the poor mother of these
loved and admired creatures tried hard to
bear her life without them. It was strange,
she thought, that she should have so deeply
loved her husband when he was unkind, debased,
and unworthy, and yet that she could
not love him now, when he was trying so
strenuously to do well, when he loved her,
was proud of her, and wished nothing more
than to work for her and make her comfortable.
She tried, with tolerable success,
to hide her dislike. She never said a bitter
thing, and would sit for hours patiently
sewing, and never once asking him to leave
off singing those hymns that she knew
were intended for her pleasure and edification.
She cooked his meals punctually,
she kept his clothing clean and whole,

but when he went out on his temperance
errands, she would drop her work on her
knees and think, and the tears would steal
down her cheeks unaware. And her conscience
sometimes disturbed her ; her sense
of duty sometimes appeared to pull her
two different ways. Had she truly been
kind to her darlings ? "What if, after all,
they should discover what she had done ?
Oh how far more bitter it would be for
them, than it could have been to have
grown up aware of their father's disgrace I
And yet what happy, peaceful lives she
had bought for them, and paid for these
with the best years of her own  with the
effacement of her own prospects. She had
lost them for herself, but won them to such a
far better lot, that they could well dispense
with her. She had procured for them
such good teaching, that she was for ever
their inferior. She had robbed herself of
their love, but she would rather rue the

loss of it than that they should want for
anything.

Would she do it again if her time came
over again ? That was the daily question
she asked herself. She always answered
it the same way, and prayed to God that
He would not count the mistake  if it was
one  a sin.

It was Uzziah's reformation that turned
all her axioms into doubt; he never said
any bad words now. If she had kept
her daughters in their own rank of life,
they might have come back to him, and
learned no evil in their humble home.
And he would have been pleased with
them ; he must have loved them. Yes,
but she felt that this need not trouble
her. He did well enough without them ;
never had seen one, nor cared for the
other. She need not think of him. The
children were hers, and she humbly prayed
every day that she might be forgiven for

the concealment she had practised, in
giving np everything for their sake.

Uzziah was not very observant. He was
satisfied when she would talk, and did not
notice how she always drew him away from
personal matters  from his expressions of
pleasure at her presence, pride in her
appearance, or love for her person ; and
was willing to hear him enlarge on his
speeches of all the  temperance gentlemen"
who patronized him, and the good he
hoped he was doing. 

Sometimes the sudden utterance of a
familiar name would make her turn white
to the lips.

He's a rare one," Uzziah exclaimed one
night, speaking of Amias ; ''he does know
how to lay about him ! "

She trembled on hearing this, but dared
say no more than, '' Oh, he do ? Well, I've
heard you say so before."

'now, his brother," continued Uzziah,

I don't know what to make of him. I
really don't."

 Why not?"

*why not? Well, he doesn't seem to
know how to hit the right nail on the
head. Mr. Amias is all downright and
straightforward. He's against the piihhcans
and against the brewers, and more than
all against the distillers. But his brother
what's his name, again ? Not Stephen, I
know, but something like it. His brother's
notion seems to be to hit out pretty generally
all round. He seems to think we're all
to blame. My word, he made me feel,
though I am temperance lecturing, as if he
said to me,  Thou art the man.' "

'He can't well make out that you
encourage folks to drink, nor to sell drink,
nor to make drink," observed Mrs. Dill,
who was willing to hear anything Uzziah
might have to say about her children's
guardian.

'well, my dear, in a manner of speaking,
he does. A good many of the chief
sympathizers were aggravated with him for
that, as I could see last night. ' What's
the good of our denying ourselves every-think
for this cause,' says one of them tome,
'if we're to be treated like this? ' I took
particular notice of what Mr. de Berenger
said, because I thought, so far as there
seemed to be anything in the argument,
I would use it. But it was nothing of an
argument at all. He says the world is ruled
by opinion, and that so long as folks  a good
many of them  are ashamed of their opinions,
then their opinions cannot spread as they
should do. He says it is the Spirit of God
under whom the conscience of the world
grows, and it is often those who conceit
themselves that they have the most light
that are most full of doubt, and so keep that
great conscience back from its expansion.
'If you pretend to be candid,' said he.

and if you say that the vast body of men
who get their living by this traffic can never
be expected to give it np  you, too, who
believe yourselves to be on God's side  you
are in an awful case ; you are fighting against
Him. How dare you think,' says he, That
such and such improvements are not to
be expected? Who taught you that they
were needed ? Their guilt is small, whose
covetousness urges them on to sell this
poison, compared with yours, who are
ashamed to believe and confess that the
Spirit of God is moving yet on the dark
face of the waters.' "

'Then," said Mrs. Dill for he paused
here, and she wanted to continue talking of
her late master  '' I expect, if we are to
prepare for the time when no more spirits
at all to speak of, are to be drunk, there
must be hobs made to every grate, for keeping
the teapots warm."

' Not so," replied Uzziah ;  for, my dear,

VOL. It. I

if you'll believe me, the doctors want to
take a good part of our tea from us too."

No!" exclaimed Mrs. DiU. ' "Well, I
wonder what next ? "

'swell, they say that tea  so inch as
many of ns drink  makes folks to have
shaking hands ; they say there's no nourishment
in it worth naming, and we ought to
drink either pure water, or cocoa, or good
milk."

The land that grows barley and hops
won't be enough, then," she remarked, 'sto
lay down in grass for the cows that are to
yield the milk."

 Not it. I said so to Mr. de Berenger,
after the meeting."

' I expect yon had him there," observed
the wife.

No. What do yon think he made for
answer ? Why, that water was one of the
most nourishing drinks a man could take,
and very fattening too ! "

My word ! " exclaimed Mrs. Dill, quite
surprised, and looking up with a soft colour
in her cheeks, which had been brought thereby
the pleasant excitement of this talk
concerning one who was so near to her
darlings.

' He did indeed, my dear, and Mr. Amias
backed him. But if it ain't a Liberty to say it,
I think for once he was mighty glad to step
down from the platform when our lecture
was over ; for if ever there were two pretty
young ladies in this world, Mr. de Berenger
brought those two with him, and set them
down beside an old lady with long curls,
right in front of the platform. And I think
one of those two made the temperance
cause seem to Mr. Amias as if he wished it
was further."

*'0h, my beauties, my dears!" thought
the mother. "How near I was to going
with your poor father to that lecture ; and
to think now that I should thank God I
kept away and did not see you ! "

Chapter YI.

'' When God gives," said Uzziah, He gives
with bofcli hands. He has given me pardon
for my crimes, He has given me back my
wife (ten times better than she was before),
and now  this child."

Uzziah took up the baby as he spoke, and
the little fellow opened his dark eyes and
spread out his two-days'-old hands.

The doctor left the small clean chamber,
but not without an involuntary elevation
of the eyebrows, and a scrutinizing glance
at this man.

' My dear," said Hannah Dill, as the
door was quietly shut, " you have no call

to use that word. It worry me more
than I can tell to hear you do it."

 What's for ever in a man's mind must
come out now and then," he answered.

Her white lips trembled slightly ; and,
a different husband altogether from his
former self, he immediately apologized.
He promised to use more circumspection.
Then, mindful of her late danger, he began
to employ some of the kindly flattery that
a new-made mother loves best to hear,
admiring the infant.

Did anybody ever see such big dark
eyes ?  for all the world like 3oms, my dear.
I hope, please God, he will be like you.
A very pretty boy, to be sure ; and what
a weight on my arm already ! "

' Yes," said the feeble mother, turning
her head on her pillow, "he is a very fine
babe to look to."

I shall be as proud as ever was of the
little chap," continued Uzziah, laying him

down beside her with a smile of real
affection ; ' it's what I've been wanting
this long time, though I scarce knew it 
a child of my own. Ever since I had you
again I felt I could not be easy ; as if it
hurt me to see you in the house all alone."

Did you feel to want those that are
gone ? " asked the mother, with a certain
pang. She was beginning to do more than
tolerate her poor husband, and the notion
of his having yearned for the children she
had taken from him gave her keen pain.

'swell, I did; but there are things you
know as we agreed never to speak on."

' Ay," answered the wife, 'but you may
say what you have in your mind this once."
She thought this addition to her punishment
for having made them happy at her own
expense, was a bitterness that she must not
shrink from as regarded these lost treasures,
and she listened when he said 

My dear, you would have been all the

mother to them. I should Hke to have
seen it. And there ain't a doubt but what
they'd have been great blessings to us, and
I should soon have got very fond of them."

She looked at him with pity, almost with
fear.

 Only," he continued,  they would have
known."

'* They must ha' known," she answered,
sighing.

-Ay."

*' Don't you think, then, Uzziah, 'tis best
as it is?"

'Tis best as God willed it," he answered,
seriously.

- Ay; but that's not what I meant," she
cried, piteously. ' The only time we spoke
on these, you said, ' They're well off.' "

- We know they are, Hannah."

She assented with hysterical tears. " Ay,
I know my blessings, my dears are better
off than ever they could be with me. Let

me hear you say that you do not wish we
had them again."

' I could not exactly say that, my dear ;
for since I knew this little fellow was
coming, I have many times dreamed that
I was in quod again, and that I saw that
other little one with flaxen hair  a pretty
creature !  trotting about on the floor.
Considering what a bad father I made
her, you'll think that was strange. Little
Army  why, she would have been very
nigh seventeen year old by this time."
Seeing that she was unable to restrain her
tears, he added, ' Don't fret, my dear; we
have talked about her again for once and
for all, for you see it has been once too
often."

 Ay, it's more than I can bear. God
forgive me ! " replied the mother.

Uzziah, mistaking her meaning, continued.
' So now let them sleep in the bosom of
the Son of God ; you shall have them

again. And meanwhile get well so fast
as you may, for the sake of this new
blessing."

He presently went out, and Hannah Dill
turned her head, and looked with yearning
pity and love at her new-born child. An
inheritance of shame was his. He was to
know from the first that his poor father had
been a disgrace to him. But yet in his case
there could be nothing to conceal ; he would
sit upon the knee of this man, his poor
father, and get used to him  would like
to drink out of his cup, and be carried on
his shoulder. He would not shrink then
from him. No ; but perhaps he would be
not the less dragged down, but the more,
for that. What would a father mean in his
mind ? Why, somebody who was good now,
but had been wicked. A father was an
ex-convict, the kindest man he knew ; the
only one, perhaps, who was fond of him.

Must he, then, be told so young ? Yes ;

or else it must be concealed from him till
accident or necessity made him aware of
it, and then he must stand the shock as
best he could.

' You're not to play at getting drunk,"
said a poor mother to her little five-year-old
boy.

'' Father used to drink."

 Ay; but poor father never drinks now.
He never rolls about, he never strikes
Dicky now. Father's kind, father's good."

'rand Dicky means to be good," said
the child; "but Dicky must get drunk
first, and have larks too, just as father
did."

Dicky was far too young to be reasoned
with, and he had something more than
knowledge already. He had experience ;
limited certainly, but disastrous, for it
showed him that a man was a creature who
ought to be good in the end, but must
be expected to play with evil first ; go

down into the mire, in fact, and there remain,
until he had sufficiently disported
himself.

Hannah Dill, though her husband had
loved her and trusted her, and found in
her his whole delight and comfort since
he had got her back, was by no means at
peace ; she knew that the burglary he had
been tried for was not the only crime he
had on his conscience. She had got used
to fear, on his account ; every unexpected
knock at her humble door startled her. He
had himself, from time to time, fits of
depression, when something, she knew not
what, but guessed to be the memory of
a crime, would seem to fall on him like a
blight ; and then, whatever he was doing,
he would rise and go to shut himself up ina
little empty attic that they rented, and
there she would hear his inarticulate crying
to God, and sometimes his groans and
sighs. She would sometimes steal upstairs

after him and listen, but she was too
much awed to call to him. Though he
had risen into an atmosphere in which she
could not breathe, it had been from a
deep that she had not sounded. He was
above her and beneath her, and she could
not freely communicate with him any more
than she could rest.

One evening, however, when the child
was about four months old, an incident,
small in itself, added greatly to her feeling
of insecurity. She was nursing him, in
the presence of his father, when a sudden
noise seemed to startle the infant, and he
turned his dark eyes with an evident expression
of apprehension.

' Bless the babe ! " she exclaimed ; ' how
intelligent he do look now and then 1 "

''He is the very moral of you," replied
Uzziah, 'when he looks round in that sort
of way."

Do I have a startled, frightened look,

then?" she answered, and immediately repented
her words, for Uzziah became extremely
pale ; and, looking down at her
babe, she seemed to see in his little face
something like an inherited expression. As
she had beheld the reflection of their
father's yearning wistfulness in the faces
of his sisters, she thought now she could
trace the thought of her own heart in the
eyes of this child.

She continued to look down on the little
head, for she could not meet her husband's
eyes. She heard him sob, and then he
fell on his knees. " God, it was a sin
it was a sin!" he muttered. '0 God,
forgive me  I took her back ! "

'you did not wish to take me back?"
she replied, still without looking at him.
"You know we both of us wished we might
part that night when we prayed as we
knelt asunder on the common."

' Ay, but the next morning, and while

the storm went on, and when I knew how
miserable you were along of coming back
to me, I seemed to be urged many times
to let you go. And it was too hard."

She answered with quiet moderation.
' But you cannot help but know that now
I have this babe at my breast, I cannot
wish what I might have done if God had
not sent him.  He will never be a disgrace
to us, Uzziah," she presently added,
in a still kinder tone. '* I have heard you
pray nights for him, so deep and so hearty,
as people cannot pray, I am certain, unless
God has answered already in heaven. No,
the poor lamb, God bless him ! will never
be a disgrace to any one."

"But I shall be a disgrace to him," cried
the father, almost grovelling on the floor.
"I shall enter in; but, oh! it will be
through a bitter death, for I shall die as 
as I should do."

Who told you so?" she answered, white

to the lips ; and then she added more
faintly, 'And what death do you mean?"
But she knew.

He lifted himself slightly till he could
lay his arms on the seat of the wooden
chair, then with his face resting upon them.
Who told me so ? " he repeated. * The
same voice in my soul that told me of
my pardon. I am always told so. The
Gospel saves, I thank my God, but the
law must take its course  and it will."

* Oh ! I fare very faint," cried the poor
woman, and a strange fluttering in her
heart and in her throat appeared almost
to suffocate her; but when she fell back
in her chair, and he, starting up, brought
her some water, and seemed as if he would
take the child from her, she cried out,
though faintly, ' No, no ; let him be. I
shall not drop him. No."

I'm not to touch him ? " asked Uzziah.

No."

She struggled with herself, and sat upright,
though still deadly pale. The poor
man was sitting opposite to her, looking
more haggard and melancholy than usual.

' Uzziah," she said, 'I wish to say something
to you, as soon as I fare alle to get
out my words."

He waited some minutes, while she wiped
away a few heart-sick tears, and gathered
her child again to her breast.

 I wished to say," she sighed at last,
 as I've noticed something in you lately
that's much in your favour."

Her manner was cold, though perfectly
gentle. He made no reply.

' I've noticed that you're much more
humble lately  more abased before God,
and quiet. I believe God have forgiven
you. But this babe "  then she paused, as
if irresolute ; and suddenly, with passionate
anguish, went on  'if God does indeed
hear your prayers, I, that am his mother,

beg you  I that almost died to give him
birth, and that love him more than any
mortal thing  I beg you to pray God to
take him from me, and to leave me desolate
soon. Pray that he may be taken soon."

' You must not talk like that," answered
Uzziah, with frightened eyes.

Yes, I dll. Jesus, take him ! "

'listen to me, Hannah. I don't know
how it was I came to speak so plainly, but,
whatever it may cost me, if you will, I'll
now let you go your ways, and take him
with you."

'' No. Whatever happens, I must be
nigh, that I may know it. It would seem
to come to pass every day, if I was from
you."

'' There have been times, Hannah, when
I've thought it might be my duty to confess
it."

She shuddered.

* Oh, I don't mean to you my poor wife."

VOL. III. K

'sit could never be your duty," lie answered,
almost calmly, ' unless somebody
else was suspected  that be bad done the
deed, and not you."

' That is what I bave come to think."

'* Eeacb me down my bonnet, Uzziah.
I shall suffocate, unless I get out into the
air."

*you cannot carry the babe, Hannah,"
said ber husband, when ber bonnet was on,
and sbe was drawing ber woollen shawl over
ber shoulders and the infant's bead.

Yes, lean."

' It's ten o'clock at night."

* I know it is."

' Hannah, if you mean to go for good,
you'll give me a kiss first  won't you,
Hannah ? "

Sbe turned and looked at bim as .sbe
stood in the doorway. Her intentions came
like a flash, and changed so roughly that
they seemed to tear ber heart to pieces 

as a stormy sea tears the trembling strand ;
her intention had come, and it was gone 
for how could she kiss him ?

She stood with her white face intent on
his white face, and she stared into his eyes.
'I am coming hack," she said, huskily.
Only let me go out, if only for a moment."

*'I shall not follow you, Hannah. And
you may he sure that I believe you are
coming back."

Why?"

 Because, if I thought the other thing,
it would be I that should go out. Would
I leave my wife and babe to flee away at
this time o' night ? Hannah, sit you down
in the rocking-chair, and I'll go, and never
come near you but once a week, just to
bring you what money I've earned. I'll
go now. Only say you forgive me, and let
me have a kiss of you and the child."

* Forgive you for what ? "

* For taking you back."

'*I thought at the time it were right I
should come back, and I cannot think

now " Then she looked at him again 

at his face, and at his hands  and knew
she could not give the desired kiss ; so
she repeated, ' And I mean to come back."
He opened the door. The night was still
and dark, but quite clear. She longed for
light, and wanted to see movement. The
little tenement she and her husband rented,,
was a lean-to against some warehouses belonging
to a great Manchester manufacturer;
the alley, of which it formed one
whole side, being faced by another warehouse,
was perfectly silent and deserted at
that time of night.

She went out down the alley, and soon
found herself in a well-lighted street, full
of shops, and, as she walked, was suddenly
startled out of her deep reverie, by finding
herself near a great concert-room in which
a temperance lecture had lately been held

and which she lead attended. There had
been a concert in it that night, which was
just over ; the people were streaming out,
and calling for their carriages. She shrank
back again, and passed from among some
women, who were admiring the ladies'
dresses, and commenting on their appearance.
There was some mistake, as there so
often is. Some of the people were waiting
by one door, while their carriages were
at another. The shutters of a shop close
to her were put up, and she leaned against
them for support, while the noise made
by the footmen and cabman served in
some sort to distract her from her importunate
sense of misery and suffering
and fear. Then, striking full on her ears,
and rousing her at once to keen attention,
came a name that she knew.

*sir Samuel de Berenger's carriage stops
the way." And there it was. She knew
the footman, she knew the coachman, and

she turned lier faded eyes to mark wha
would enter. But no, the intended occupants
did not appear, and when it had
stood for ten short moments allotted toit,
the police made it pass on and give
way to another.

 It's a chance missed," she murmured
faintly. I'd rather have seen even Sir
Samuel, than nobody that belonged to
them at all; "and as she turned, and there
were more carriages, and there was
more shouting   Come on, come on ! "
cried a voice close at her elbow ; ' I see the
carriage. Keep it in view, and I'll bring
out the girls, or we may wait here till midnight."


Dick de Berenger !  and the person to
whom he had spoken was Amias. She
stood as if fascinated, till some one brushed
her elbow  a lady, who wore the hood of
her opera cloak over her head. She was
dressed in white, and before the poor

woman could take her dazzled eyes off
her, and notice that Felix had her on his
arm, another lady passed on the other
side, and a little laugh assured her that
it was her Delia.

'* Hold your shawl well over you," cried
Dick; ' you'll not catch cold."

The mother followed, irresistibly drawn
on.

' Oh no," answered Delia. ' As "if I
ever caught cold ! "

*' Amabel touched my babe's head," murmured
the mother, 'rand my shoulder."
She looked down. Yes, there was proof of
it : two or three metals from an overblown
rose in Amabel's bouquet had fallen on
her shawl, and were resting on the head
of the child.

The mother felt a strange sense of
warmth and joy, as she pressed on. She
could still see the carriage, and the two
white figures were being quickly conducted

after it. She did not dare to come very
near, but she saw them both enter, and
heard them speak while gathering up the
fallen leaves from her shawl, as if they had
been drifts from paradise.

Dick and Amias followed them in, and
the carriage proceeded.

'she often talks of a particular providence,"
she murmured, as she lost sight
of it, and mused on the little scene. They
had rather enjoyed their pursuit of the
carriage. They had white shoes on their
pretty feet. Delia was holding up her
gown with a little, unloved hand. Their
mother soothed her anguish with thinking
how lovely and blooming they had appeared,
and how easy and careless. Three gentlemen
to take care of them !

' It's a particular providence," she murmured.
 The Lord thought upon my
trouble, and has sent me a sweet drop of
comfort this night."

She turned. A man was standing so
close behind her that they could not but
look one another in the face, and a glance
of keen surprise darted into his. It was
Mr. de Berenger.

For an instant his astonishment daunted
her, but her homely dignity came to her
aid. ' I hope I see you well, su," she said
quietly. Then, glancing down at her
babe, ' Many things have taken place
since I left your service." She manifestly
meant to call his attention to her child.

*' It is Mrs. Snaith, I see," he answered.
' We meet very unexpectedly."

** Yes, sir. I once told you something
of how I was circumstanced. My poor
husband ''

' I remember," exclaimed Felix suddenly,
losing his air of disturbed astonishment.

 Yes, sii-, it was all at once my duty to
join him  nearly a year ago, sir, you know."
Then, when he was silent, she added, ' I did

not come here with any thought of seeing
the young ladies."

Tears dazzled her eyes and dropped on
her cheeks ; she knew not what more to say,,
and he said nothing. She was about to
move away, when he stopped her, putting
out his hand.

I need not ask whether you have
suffered," he said; ' your countenance
shows it too plainly. My poor friend ! "

 I have, sir," she answered.

*' Is the man good to you ? "

** Oh yes, sir. It is not that."

sand you seem to have a fine, healthy
child," he remarked, as if he would find
somewhat on which to say a few comforting
words.

She looked down on the little fellow
who, now awake, was lying on her arm,
staring at the gas-lamp with clear, contented
eyes.  Ay, sir," she answered ; * but I pray
the Lord to take him from me. Bless him ! "

she continued, looking at him with all a
mother's love. ' His mother would pray
him into heaven this night if she could,
and not grudge the breaking of her own
heart, to save him what he will find out if
he lives long enough."

She began to move on, and Felix walked
beside her, apparently too much shocked
to answer; but when she turned from the
great thoroughfare, he stopped her again.

'listen to me, Mrs. Snaith," he said.
'you have often thought of the time when
you lived nth me, of course ? "

Yes, sir; it's all the joy I have, to think
on it."

"Do you believe that I would do anything
for you that I could ? "

Yes. I don't know another such gentleman."


"Well, then, tell me. Is there anything
? "

"Yes, sir, there is," she murmured, after

a panse ; but it's not what you might
expect."

'* I don't understand yon."

'It's almost strange, considering all
things, that I have never met you nor Mr.
Amias when I have been along with my poor,
wretched husband. You might do me  oh,
the greatest favour and kindness a poor
creature could ask  if ever you should "

 If ever I should see you with him?"
asked Felix, stopped by his surprise, as she
was by her earnestness.

Yes, sh."

'why, what is it, Mrs. Snaith?" he exclaimed,
gazing at her in more astonishment
than ever.

'' To make as if you knew nothing about
me, and had never seen me in your life
before."

*' Are you so much afraid of him ?"

She made no answer.

Give me a moment to think."

She walked before him, silent.
He repeated her words aloud to himself.
a iQ niake as though I knew nothing
about her, and had never seen her in my
life before.' " Then, after another pause,.
*' Wei], Mrs. Snaith, you can only be asking
me this as a protection to yourself. I promise
you."

'thank you, sir. And Mr. Amias  I
should be very deeply obliged to you if you
would tell all this to him."

'how should we ever see you with the
man ? " exclaimed Felix.
"But if you do, sir?"
"Yes  well, I will do it. Mr. Amias
shall know. But is there nothing else, that
seems more reasonable, that I can help you
in?"

"No, sir, thank you kindly. I do not
want for money. Sir, will you let me wish
you good-night ? I am later than I meant
to be."

'but, my friend," said Felix, 'you left
us in a hurry, and my uncle, Sir Samuel,
would now gladly give you a handsome sum
for information as to the parentage of the
two girls."

'' Sir, I always say alike. They have no
claim on him whatever. I trust you'll let
me go."

'' No claim ? "

'' No, sir, none."

Felix put out his hand. '' God bless you,
my poor friend, and comfort you ! " he said.
Then he turned back the same way they
had come, that she might see he had no
thought of finding out whither she was
going.

CHAPTEK VII.

It was nearly midnight when Hannah Dill
came np the alley toward her humble home,
and noticed with alarm a small group of
people standing outside the window, and
apparently glancing into it. She could see,
as she advanced, that a candle was burning
inside, and she was struck by the silence
of the people, till, just as she joined them,
one man whispered to the other, ' To think
of it ! " '' Well, I'll always believe there's
real saints in the world from this time
forrard," answered his fellow ; and making-way
for her as she came straight up to the
window, they all quietly passed on. Uzziah
was kneeling on the floor, with his hands

clasped and his eyes upraised. She could
only see the side of his face, but, remembering
how they two had parted, she was
astonished both at the utterly absorbed
expression and the depth of its calm.

*she is not crying to God now," she
murmured, half aloud ;  he is thinking
on Him. I have seen him do that before.
Art a murderer, my poor wretched husband,
or art a saint ? Can a man be both one and
the other ? It's past my knowledge to give
an answer to that. But the Lord have
mercy on thee and on me, and take our
innocent child to Himself ! "

She tapped lightly at the door, and
Uzziah, with perfect calmness, rose and
opened it to her. He looked at her fixedly,
as if he expected her to say something
decisive, something important to him ; but
her strength was spent, and her spirits had
fallen again. She went forward, sat down
on the rocking-chair, and laying her babe

down on her knees, looked at him and said,
 Have you done as I told you? Have you
prayed for the death of the child ? "

' I seemed to have no power to do it.
My prayer had no wings ; it would not
ascend."

She sat many minutes silent. Then she
said, 'aren't you afraid you're making
yourself too conspicuous  more easy to
find  lecturing and spreading your name
about as you do ? "

' I have left all that to my patient Judge.
I must work now while it is day ; when the
hitter call comes I must kiss the rod, and
be ready."

"I have thought sometimes, since I've
been out, that I may have made a blessed
mistake, and the thing was not so black
as I feared. Don't name it to me, but
if it was not the darkest deed a man can
do, say so."

' It was, in the eyes of the law."

VOL. III. L

Sarah DE BERENGER.

'' What do you mean by that ? "

'* They made me drunk first, Hannah.
I was three parts drunk ; yet when  when
I did it "

 You cannot say, then, what I wanted to
hear you say ? "

''No."

'you had better take the poor babe,
then."

Her arms dropped at her side, and her
head sank. Uzziah was only just in time
to save the child, when she fell forward,
and all his efforts could not save her from a
fall and a heavy blow.

Some very bitter and anxious weeks
followed. Hannah Dill lying on her bed,
took little notice of her husband, or even
of her child. She scarcely seemed to care
what became of her. She had no heart
to recover herself, and her wasted features,
faded eyes, and feeble pulse, showed how
much she suffered.

 The wages of sin." She was Hnked
with the sinner, and those wages had been
paid out also to her. She felt more than
the fear that he suffered, for he had gone
forth to meet the Avenger  had lain at
His feet, and craved His pardon ; hut the
more fully he was able to believe that
pardon had been granted, the surer he
always felt that in this world his sin was
to find him out.

But now the despair of this woman,
whom he deeply loved, was too much for
him. She dreaded him ; she could not
bear him to touch her or her child. He
knew this, and knew how she tried to hide
it. She perfectly acknowledged to herself
that he was a changed character ; but though
she could command her countenance as to
expression, she could not as to hue, and
when he approached, or when he accosted
her, she would often turn white, even to the
lips.

Uzziah felt as if lie had not known
suffering, or even remorse, before. It was
only for a short time that such a man ashe
could taste of love and joy and domestic
peace ; they were all gone. He saw himself,
as it were, with his wife's eyes, and knew
how vile he was. He perceived that the
opinion of his fellow creatures was more
to him than that of the just and holy God.
He had borne to know that death (forwarded)
was the penalty of his crime,
but he shrank from the scorn and detestation
which at any moment discovery might
bring upon him from his fellows ; and he
too began to feel that *' his punishment
was greater than he could bear," and
that he scarcely cared what became of him.

It was past midnight, about six weeks
after Hannah Dill's brief sight of her children,
when, coming home once from a dinner
party, Amias de Berenger let himself into

his own chambers with a latch-key. The
fire, in a comfortable room, very much
cumbered with books, had been made up
for him, and a reading-lamp was burning
near it on a small table.

There were book-cases ranged about his
walls, and there were red curtains let down
before the windows. The sound of passing
vehicles was heard, as well as the general
murmur made by the multitudinous noises of
London. But as Amias sat, with his feet on
the fender, a slight tap roused his attention,
and it was repeated several times. He
threw up the window and looked out. A
man at the same moment had withdrawn
from the door, and was looking up. He
shrank back when the light fell on his face,
but Amias saw that it was his 'inspired
cobbler," his favourite temperance lecturer,
and, wondering what the man could want
at that time of night, he went down and let
him in.

* You want to speak to me ? " lie asked,,
as he shut the door of his sitting-room, and
moved to Uzziah to sit down.

The * inspired cobbler " made no answer.
His face was pale ; he looked inexpressibly
forlorn. In his best black clothes, Amias
had always seen him looking the picture
of neatness, as if he had the ambition to
hope that he might be taken for a third-rate
dissenting minister. Now his hair was
wild, his dress disordered, his face pale.
He shivered, and as he spread out his hands
to the fire, Amias noticed that they were
blue with cold, and that his breath came
with a series of involuntary sighs.

sewell," exclaimed Amias, when he did
not speak,  what is it, man ? "

' Sir, I can't speak at your lecture tomorrow."


'you should have let me know before,
Mr. Dill. And why cannot you ? "

* There's two reasons," answered Uzziah

littering the words with difficulty, as if his
sighs almost suffocated him ; * and they're
both of them as bad as they well can be."

' Indeed ! I fear you mean more than
you say."

"I mean, first, that I've got down into
the slough again. I did not think it could
be ; but I've fallen. God forgive me ! I
presumed; I was too sure of myself; and
the drink (I was very miserable)  and the
drink (I'd been a long way, and had nothing,
and was faint)  and the drink was
at every street-corner. I passed fifty pubic
and counted them aloud to keep
myself out, but at the fifty-first I went in ;
and I reeled home, sir, as drunk as ever."

' I am truly sorry for you," was all Amias
said.

Oh, sh, and it took so little to overcome
me. I went home to my poor wife ; and
now the thirst and the longing for it are
upon me, and I shall do it again."

'*No," answered Amias ;  this will go
off; you must not despond. But how came
you to be so imprudent as to walk till you
were faint ? And what misfortune has
made you miserable ? " he continued, calling
Uzziah's words to mind.

' Oh, I am a miserable man ! " was all
the reply his  inspired cobbler " made ; and
he sank upon his knees before the fire, and
covered his face with his hands.

' I am truly sorry for you. Dill," repeated
Amias, very much shocked. ' But the
worst thing you can do is to talk in this
despairing way. Pluck up courage; be a
man. Come, I'll give you something to
eat at once ; and I'll see you safe into your
o\m home. But I am afraid  yes, I am
afraid you cannot speak any more at these
meetings,  at least, for a time."

I cannot eat," answered Uzziah ; " but
you are good, sir, to say you'll walk home
with me. I'm in such mortal fear that I

shall be drawn in to those satraps again ;
they catch body and soul. My head never
would stand the half of what another man
can take," he moaned. '' Oh, why did I
do it !  But I know : I longed for it ; I
kept muttering to myself as I came to you
this night, ' Oh for one drop  oh that I
could have one drop ! ' I longed for it more
than for the air I breathe."

*' Did this come upon you all on a sudden
? " asked Amias.

* It came on same time as all the rest of
the misery."

' What misery ? " asked Amias.

Uzziah started up, seeming to recollect
himself; he sat down again, and looked at
Amias as if he was trying to collect his
thoughts.

'rit would not be safe to tell you," he
said ; and instantly seemed to feel that to
have said even that was far too much.

Amias drew his chair slightly further off.

*eyes, sir," said the cobbler, as if answering
his thought; 'i'm no worse than
I always have been since long before the
day you first saw me. But you have no
call to demean yourself to sit so near. It's
more than my wife will do. I thought
God, that knew all, had forgiven me ; but
now it's all dark.  God, Thou hast taken
me up and cast me down."

'you must not despair of the goodness
of God. He knows the great temptation
the constant sight and smell of drink is to
such as you. You will recover yourself soon,
I hope, and even, perhaps, may be allowed
to speak again in public."

Amias said this because he knew what
joy and honour it always seemed to the
cobbler to stand forth and utter his testimony.
He had a ready flow of words, many
anecdotes at his command, and took a
simple and harmless pride in his own popularity.


Uzziali shook his head. * My wife says
uo to that," he answered, sighing; ' she
says it woiihl he tempting providence."

Amias again offered him food, and when
he would not take it, renewed the offer of
walking home with him ; and the two men
set forth together, Amias feeling sufficient
distrust and dislike of his companion to
keep him very silent. But what was his
astonishment when, having conducted the
poor man to his own door, he knocked,
determining to see him enter it before he
left him, and it was opened by his brother's
old servant, Mrs. Snaith  yes, Mrs. Snaith 
evidently the mistress of that humble home,
and she had a baby in her arms.

He was on the point of addressing her,
when he remembered his brother's account
of the interview he had lately had with
her, and how she had begged that, if either
of them met her with her husband, he
would not recognize her.

She looked aghast, hut almost instantly
recovered herself. He checked himseK justin
time, and as Uzziah passed in, said, as if
to a stranger, ' Your poor husband has been
with me to-night, Mrs. Dill, and I have
walked home with him. I am very sorry
for him, hut I am full of hope that this
will soon pass off."

'will you come in, sir?" answered Mrs.
Dill, with entreating eyes.

Amias entered, and Uzziah Dill went
straight upstairs, shutting the staircase
door behind him.

Mrs. Dill, who had not moved nor spoken
again, was standing with the candle in her
hand listening, and her head slightly raised.
She now set it down on the small deal
table. '' He will not come down any more,
poor man," she said, almost in a whisper;
'' he has shut himself in for the night, but
whether to pray or to sleep I cannot say.
He never seems to have a moment's ease
of mind now'*

 It is a piteous sight to see his repentance,"
Amias answered; 'but, Mrs.
Snaith "

'' Mrs. Dill, sir."

' Yes  Mrs. Dill. You must not let him
get morbid ; I mean that you should encourage
him. He ought not to think that
such a fault is past reprieve."

' What fault, sir ?" asked Mrs. Dill, with
a certain air of fluttered distress. ' Oh
yes, sir  ses, sir ; he was overcome by
temptation, and he fell." She trembled
now, and looked so faint and frightened,,
that Amias could not answer at once, he
was too much surprised ; but when she repeated,
" Overcome by temptation, and he
fell  that was what you meant," he at
once perceived that both husband and wife
had more on then minds than a mere
drunken fit, and he again experienced the
strange revulsion against this man which
had impelled him to draw away his chair.

He did not like to hear his footsteps overhead.


' Mrs. Dill," he said, leaning towards
her as he sat, and speaking in a whisper,
' I have thought of that poor man, your
husband "

' Yes, sir ; my husband."

'' Well, I have thought of him as a saint."

' And so have I, Mr. Amias."

* But you are very much in fear of him ?"

I believe he is a saint, sir."

' I think you ought to answer me. Are
you in bodily fear of him ? "

* No, sir, I am not. He is perfectly
gentle, and a pious Christian, poor creature,
when he is sober, and I trust in the mercy
of God that he will not drink again. He
and I have kneeled down together, and
begged and prayed the Lord that he never
might so fall again ; and I do believe, sir,
that we are heard."

sand yet, Mrs. Dill, when you opened

the door, if ever I saw a woman's face
express mortal fear, yours was that face."

Mrs. Dill said nothing.

' It is only a few days, is it, since this
took place  since he got drunk ? "

 Only a few days."

Amias pondered, and at last said, ' ' I
do not like to leave a person whom I have
long known and respected in any danger,
or in such a state of terror as I found you."

' I was afraid, sir, when I heard the knock,
for how should I know that it was you ? ' '

Amias looked at her; the words 'you
are afraid /or him, then, not of him?" were
almost on his lips, hut he spared her.

'' I don't fare to regard a few pangs of
fright, more or less," she presently added,
' my life, sir, is so full of misery; hut when
I saw Mr. de Berenger, and now that I see
you, I know what a wide gulf there is
betwixt me and that happy life I led, when
I went in and out without fear, and lived

SO quiet and respectable, all comforts about"
me, and answered the door without an}
alarm, and  and waited on my dear young
ladies."

She could not possibly forbear to speak
of her children, so sore was her longing to
hear of their welfare. Amias, who took her
mention of them chiefly as a proof, among
others, of her regrets for her old occupation
and the old place, felt as if desire to talk of
them was all his own. A glow came into
his dark cheek, and a flash into his eyes.
It became evident to him that he ought to
indulge himself  their old nurse naturally
wished to hear about them  and almost with
reverence the lover allowed himself the
delightful privilege of uttering Amabel's
name.

He was fully occupied now with his own
feelings, or he could not have failed to
notice how the waxen pallor of the nurse's
face gave way to rose colour, and how her

expression became first peaceful, then
almost rapturous. She turned her eyes
av/ay from him, and scarcely asked a question,
and she also was too full of her own
feelings to notice his.

She tried to keep her gladness moderate,
and to hear of their wears, improvement,
and beauty with as much seeming calm ashe
tried to give to his words in telling of
them. If a third person had been present
this attempt would, on both sides, have been
equally vain. Amias ended with, ' And I
often hear them speak of their dear old
nurse, and wish they had her again."

Then the nurse lifted up her hand, and
looked up. "Bless their sweet hearts!"
she said, with impassioned tenderness. " I
love them, but I pray the Lord in His
great mercy to keep them and me always
apart."

Amias was very much struck by this
speech, and by her earnestness. "I was

VOL. III. M

almost thinking, Mrs. Snaitli, that I could,
perhaps, bring them to see you," he exclaimed.


' This is no place for them to come to,"
she interrupted.

"And you do not wish to see your young
ladies?"

' No, sir ; I pray you to keep them away."

The clock of a neighbouring church
struck one. Amias rose.

Some things you say make me very
uneasy," he began.

Sir, you have no call to be afraid forme,"
she repeated, interrupting him again.

Do you know my address ? "

"Yes, sir."

If ever you should want help, come, or
write to me."

I will, and I am truly thankful for your
kindness ; but I want nothing so much as
this, that, if we meet, you should make as
if you did not know me."

' I shall remember."

'Aud I would fair, if I might, send my
love to my dear young ladies."

Her love, which she was so desirous not
to reveal, so as to excite his suspicions and
his love, which, unless he kept it hidden, got
the mastery over his calm, made them both
so self-conscious and restrained, that again
neither could notice the other, and Amabel's
mother and her lover parted strangers, in
spite of what might have been so mighty a
link between them.

Hannah Dill had at last recovered her
health, and begun to take in hand her
husband's affairs. He had lost energy and
hope since he had again fallen under the
influence of drink, but after he had seemed
to become like himself, and had begun to
eat and to work again, he was a second time
drawn into a gin-palace, and then, when the
next day he was lying in despair on his bed,
racked with headache, and almost beside

himself with, remorse, she came up to him
and deliberately proposed that she should
lock him np  lock him in to that little
whitewashed garret, bring him his food
and his work, supply him with coal and
candle, and not let him out till she thought
he was safe.

He accepted her proposal thankfully, and
it spoke well for his sincerity that he armed
her against himself, his own probable
entreaties or commands, by giving her a
paper, desiring her to use her best judgment,
and show no false mercy by letting
him out till she was satisfied of his cure.
He signed it, and she kept him locked in
for three weeks. But he was used to
confinement  that did him no harm ; he
was accustomed to the companionship of
accusing thoughts and wretched memories.
She took these things into account, and did
not let them influence her; but there was
one thing she did not take into account,.

and this was his strong, absorbing love for
herself.

She brought him his meals, she swept
out his room, she took care that he had
candlelight, and all such comforts as their
slender means would permit ; but when she
had done all such obvious tasks, she did
not sit with him, or linger to chat, or bring
the child and lay it on its father's bed,
while she worked. No, nothing of this
kind ; when she had waited on him, she
went down again.

Uzziah felt this, and he found nothing
to say. Every day he thought he must and
would open a conversation with her, if it
was only to ask a few harmless, commonplace
questions, such as, ' Have you been
to the shop, Hannah ? Well, sit you down
and tell me about it." ' Got the baby
a new hat, did you? Bring up the little
chap and let me see him in it." He
rehearsed many such questions and remarks

with himself when alone ; but when he
heard his wife's step on the stair, and heard
her turn the key, he never could utter
them. She always found him silent, and
every morning she made him the same
apology, wishing you better, my poor
husband, and feeling it hard I should have
to take away your liberty."

 I don't feel as much better as I
could wish," was often the answer.  I'm
parched with thirst, and long for liquor ; "
but he could not add, ' and I long for your
company."

And she was only able to talk with him
on the matter in hand  what he thought
it might be best for him to eat, and what
to drink. When she had done and said all,
she would turn away very quietly, almost
slowly, and close and lock the door again ;
but then he used to hear her run downstairs,
as if it was a deep relief to get away from
him.

And SO it was.

At last one day he said, ' Hannah, I've
no longing at all upon me now for liquor,
and I bless the Lord for that."

'well, and I bless the Lord for it, too,"
she answered, almost cordially.

She observed that he had put on his best
clothes, and brushed his hair.

''I feel as if I might go out," he said.
Only, what do you think, my poor wife ?
Am I fit to go alone ? "

'i'll go nth you," she answered; and
his whole appearance changed. She could
not but feel a pang of pity for him, for his
face was so like what her heart had felt
when she had last seen her lovely children.
Her proposing of her own accord to go outwith
him was such a cordial, and yet he
knew it was only as a guardian that she
was to go. She would be near to help him
out of mischief and temptation  as a duty,
and not a pleasure.

' And where do yon want to go ? " lie
inquired.

Well, Hannah, first I inst look for
work; for what I used to earn by my
efforts for the temperance cause, I have
lost now."

Too true," she replied.

'And, second, I must go to Mr. de
Berenger. He will wonder what has
become of me all this time. I want to say
to him what you have to hear first."

He saw then the sudden pallor which
often distressed him in his wife's face,
and did not know that her fear of meeting
with Amias was what had brought it on, not
of what he might have to say.

'If you're agreeable to it, my dear, I feel
as if I had better go away from London. I
might find a country place  I seem to know
of several  where there are not any pubic
tempting one at every turn. I could
not keep us quite as well as I have done,
but I would do my best."

He paused, and looked at her earnestly,
and she answered what she knew was in his
mind.

' Yes, Uzziah, I would go with you."

Chapter VIII.

Amias was standing on the rug in the room
where he had talked with Uzziah Dill. It
was a pleasant morning; the red curtains
of the windows had been partly drawn, and
shafts of sunshine came in between, casting
a fine glow upon the figures of an old man
and an elderly lady, who sat on two comfortable
chairs.

Yes, my dear uncle is much disappointed,"
said Sarah. ' He thinks the
little girls look thin and weakly. Yes ! and
dear Amabel and my pretty Delia "

< Why mention them in the same breath
with the others ? " interrupted Amias. * My

uncle, I understood, was come here to talk
over his affairs,  express some of his wishes
as regards his granddaughters."

' And dear Amahel and my pretty Delia,"
Sarah went on, as if she had not heard him,
have each had an offer of marriage. Yes,
very natural, I am sure, and does the
young men no special credit."

The dark cheek of Amias mustered colour,
and his eyes flashed. Sir Samuel, in spite
of a little depression which showed itself in
his air, smiled furtively here.

'No special credit," she went on, ' for
anybody might see, with half an eye, what
charming, desirable girls they are  though,
to be sure, the lovers, both in the army, had
nothing at all but their pay. However, as
they said to me, there's always hope of a
scrimmage. War, war,  that's what they
all look to, what they daily pray for. But
it's rather shocking to thmk of their dropping
on their knees  whole rows of them 

and deliberately entreating a merciful Providence
to send 'battle, and murder, and
sudden death,' that they may get their
promotion! Yes; but that's what, as I'm
informed, they always do."

Sir Samuel sat through this speech in
silence, and, as he still said nothing, Sarah
spoke again.

' Some girls are far too rich," she observed,
' and others far too poor. It would
be much better if my dear uncle would have
his six granddaughters as before. Punctilios
are quite out of place in family matters;
and you are so particular, Amias, about your
publishing proofs, that now you see the
consequences. The property, as my dear
uncle has said, must go to those four pale-eyed,
sickly girls (not the least like the
family), and their fortunes will be so largess
they will be the victims of all the
neediest scamps out."

"I am not so sure of that," said Amias,

* if Felix is to have the charge of them, and
I am to be their guardian."

' Much too rich, poor children ! But when
my will comes to be investigated, perhaps
it may be found that I have been less regardless
of the family interests than join
have, and have not thrown dear John's
children over just because he died before
he could come home to claim them,  and
produce his marriage certificate," she added,
after a short pause, ' which he had no reason
to suppose we should ever think of asking
for."

*' If you please, sir," said a servant,
entering,  Mr. Uzziah Dill wishes to speak
with you."

' I will see him in a few minutes," replied
Amias.  Now, aunt," he continued, when
the door was shut, 'you have been giving
me rather a long lecture this morning."

swell, perhaps I have," she answered,
looking up at him affectionately,  and I

must say you have borne it like a lamb.
Yes ! but it will have no effect upon you,
Amias."

' You accuse me, among other things,
of meddling in the affairs of this world, of
a strong wish to make it better and happier.
Now, there is a poor, weak wretch of a lame
cobbler downstairs "

eyes! going to prove that my remarks
were so much wasted breath."

Amias turned from his aunt to his uncle.
' I say, uncle, that I feel a wish just now
to see the world  at least, those few atoms
of it which are held together by the body
of that lame cobbler  a little better and a
little happier."

' Then there's money in the wish," said
Sir Samuel, smiling rather grimly. ' By how
much money is the little demagogue to be
made better and happier ? I remember him.
I heard him rant when you were at the seaside,
a year or two ago."

*' I think five and twenty pounds would
satisfy me."

Sir Samuel lifted Ms eyebrows involuntarily,
he was so much astonished at the
audacity of Amias in naming so large a
sum. '* This comes," he thought, " of my
having laid myself under an obligation to
him by making him my girls' guardian."

'' The poor man's case is hard, and I
deeply pity him," continued Amias. ''He
was a reformed drunkard, and kept himself
sober for years ; but in a time of deep
distress  an illness of his wife's, I think  he
was overcome by temptation, and drank
again. Now he almost despairs, and his
living is lost, for of course he cannot rant,
as you call it, on temperance any more."

Partly in gratitude to Amias, but more
in pity for the man, Sir Samuel took out
his purse, and, to the surprise of Sarah, gave
Amias, in gold and notes, the five and
twenty pounds.

Amias, thanking him, took the money
and went into a little waiting-room, where
he found poor Dill and his wife. Uzziali
looked the shadow of his former self, and
was very desponding.

Amias applauded him for his intention of
leaving London, held out no hope that anymore
temperance lecturing was possible for
him, but gave Mrs. Dill the money, and
said it was a generous gift from a friend.

Mrs. Dill accepted it with beautiful and
homely dignity. 'rit was a king's ransom
to her," she said ; 'rit would give her
husband hope and courage, and that was
what he mainly wanted to keep him
sober."

She had money, more than this sum
lying in the hands of Mr. Bartlett, but
since a certain dreadful fact had come to
her knowledge, she feared the very sight
of a lawyer, and had made her husband
more timid than herself.

' Then I suppose I've got to retire into
private life, sir," said poor Uzziah, in a
desponding tone.

Amias with difficulty forbore to smile.

' I am soit for you, Dill," he began.

"It's a sore blow, but a meet punishment,"
interrupted the poor man.

"We have taken up enough of Mr. de
Berenger's time," said the wife, with gentle
firmness. Amias shook hands with her, but
not with her husband, and when Uzziah
saw that he was determined to say no
more ; he made his bow, and departed.

He and his ife went and sat down
on a bench in Kensington Gardens, for
Uzziah was too weak to walk all the way
home without a rest, and the Gardens were
in their way.

The poor man was very wretched, and
his wife understood his misery. He wiped
his brow as he seated himself, and spoke
for the first time.

VOL. III. N

"He never gave me the least hope,
Hannah ; he never even said I might stand
forth again at some future time."

She was silent.

' To think I could do good and help the
cause was almost what I lived for. It was
not only the applause I got, Hannah ; you
must not think it."

"I do not think it."

I was buoyed up hy it. It enabled me
to deny myself."

' Ay, my poor husband ; but it made you
forget

Uzziah wiped his forehead again.

'' Am I to have nothing to do, then, for
God?'\

"Ay, truly; you've got to get our living
by your trade. So far as I can see, that is
God's will about you just now, and that it
may last His will, I daily pray."

Then, if I am to go, let it be a long way
off. There's plenty of money. Let us go
where I may forget."

He spoke weakly and almost peevishly.
His wife encouraged him, but from that day
she recognized a change. His crime, which
it seemed he had almost forgotten, was now
ever present to his mind ; he had supposed
that in the end he should be discovered as
its perpetrator, but because he believed that
God had forgiven it, he had felt that he was
free of it in the mean time.

He now discovered his mistake. No need
to tell him to be distant and humble in his
manner to his wife, or meek and silent
with others; he was all this of his own
accord. With a touching patience he undertook
such work as he could get, and contented
himself with such fare as it would
procure.

Hannah Dill could find no consoling
words for him; but she forbore from all
reproach, and gradually, as he left more and
more to her, she took the guidance of him
and of their small earnings. In one thing

she always yielded. He had sometimes a
fit of restlessness, and would long to leave
the town or Tillage where they were. Then
she would produce Sir Samuel's money, and
by some cheap excursion train, and still
cheaper steamer, they would go on. It was
always in the same direction  always north.
At last, after a full year of such wandering,
they found themselves at Whitby, and here
the change of scene, the cordial manners of
the people, and perhaps the fine air of the
place, seemed at last to revive the poor
man. He settled to his work with more
hope, slept better, and would sometimes
walk about the shore and into the country
evidently refreshed by the beauty of the
scene.

Hannah Dill felt relieved, for she could
not but be influenced by the deep depression
she always saw in him. Gradually it passed,
she scarcely knew when or how. He was
very humble, very silent still ; many an hour

he would spend in prayer, lying on the floor
of the little chamber ; but at meal times he
would now sometimes converse with her, or
he would whistle to the child, now grown a
fine, rosy Httle fellow. Sometimes he would
read aloud, and always he would work
diligently at his calling.

Hannah Dill calmed herself by degrees,
and began to hive from day to day. She
had been long looking for a catastrophe : it
did not come. She now began to feel some
refreshment in the present. The constant
changes of the sea fed her observant mind.
Sometimes the harbour would be full of
heavy rolling waves, and the tugs and vessels
would rock on them like ducks, while the
pier lighthouse would be drenched by the
breakers that reared at it, and rushed on,
hiding it for the moment, in a great fountain
of seething foam.

Every day she took her child on her arm
and walked forth, that he might enjoy the
bracin,!! air.

And she could again enjoy it. The sweet
life of the rectory was remote as paradise
might have been to Eve's imagination when
she had left it; but she had another child
to love and tend, and she had much ado
to make the money cover their small expenses.
Then she took in needlework when
she could get it, and sometimes did a Httle
clear-starching, so that she had plenty of
occupation, and yet not of a sordid kind.
They were poor, but there was no grumbling
in their home, and though the parents frequently
went without meat with their
potatoes, there was always a cup of milk
for the child.

The year thus spent by Hannah Dill
proved a very eventful one for the De
Berengers.

Sir Samuel, now eighty years of age
began slightly to lose his memory, and to
depend more and more on his niece Sarah

and on-his two great-nephews. To describe
the anguish this caused to his
daughter-in-law, Mrs. de Berenger, would
be quite impossible. When she heard that
Amias had gone to live with the old man,
and always attended to his affairs while
he was in London, and sat at the head
of his table, she was taken ill from sheer
anxiety, so likely, it seemed to her, that
Amias would influence him to the prejudice
of her four children. She wrote
to Sarah frequently, and, expressing the
deepest solicitude about the old man's
health, begged that she would use her influence
to get him into the country. He
had akeady given up his seat in parliament,
and disposed of his business; how much
better it would be for him if he would live
in the fresh country air. It was such a
needless expense, too, as he saw hardly
any company, to have two establishments.
Sarah, showing the letter to Amias, who

saw its real meaning, the old man was
easily persuaded to go into the country;
but there matters were no better. Sir
Samuel did not want his daughter-in-law,
would not invite her and her children to
come to him. He wanted Amias, always
Amias; and as he could not have this
favourite nephew in the country, he got
Felix to come about him as much as the
parson nephew would consent to do, and
at other times, rather than be alone, he
would come and stay at the rectory, contenting
himself with the quiet life led there,
and paying for himself and his old servant a
due proportion of its expenses, and no more.
From week to week, though his mental
decay was so slight as to be scarcely perceptible,
he seemed to become more conscious
of a change in himself, and to be
more desirous of guidance; more afraid,
especially in money matters, of committing
some imprudence, more openly dependent

on the opinion of one or other of his two
great-nephews ; while, at the same time, his
spirits improved, and his temper grew
sweeter, partly from the absence of all
business or political worries, partly from
the delightful consciousness of how much
money he was saving by living so frequently
at the rectory.

His presence was never regarded as a
trouble there; quite the contrary. Felix,
who had been keenly aware of his foibles
some years previously, became now very
indulgent to them. From mere sociability
of temper, he always liked to have his
house full. He was never easy when
Amabel and Delia were away; his aunt
Sarah's presence had always been a pleasure
to him ; and now Sir Samuel frequently
in and out, riding with the girls, going to
sleep in his most comfortable clans, and
conforming to the early hours of the rectory,
was decidedly agreeable to him.

If anybody had taken the trouble to-observe
the fact, and place it to its true
account, Felix must have been held to be
changed. He was much more particular in
his dress ; he was altogether brushed up,,
and looked better and younger : but his
temper was not quite so indolently gentle
as it had been, and he was sometimes a
little unfriendly toward a certain young
officer in the army, who frequently rode
over to the rectory about this time, and
would turn very red, and half choke himself
with sighing, whenever Delia condescended
to look at him or to speak to him.

Delia thought this young man a great
bore, for a certain instinct of propriety
made her aware that, as she did not mean
to let him get friendly and intimate  as she
would not let him help to feed her young
ducks, or knock down the sweetest crab-apples
for her, or beat the donkey when
she indulged in a canter  she must, therefore,

take the trouble to smooth her wandering
locks for him, and treat him to her best
frock. She never gave him a smile, but
then she took care that her sash was not
awry.

Nothing, however, could repress the gallant
soldier's love, and one afternoon, when
Delia was out  gone out riding with her
sister and old Su' Samuel  he laid his
modest prospects before FeHx, together with
his manly hopes, and begged leave to make
his offer in due form.

It was his last hour in the neighbourhood
; his leave was up. Felix was perfectly
sure that Delia cared nothing at all about
him, but he consented to lay the matter
before his ward; and when the two girls
returned, rosy and beautiful, hom the' ride,
he called her into his study.

Felix was seated on his sofa. He had
seldom in his life looked so well. Delia
looked at him, and thought so. There was

more fire in his dark eyes than usual; there
was even a shade of red under the dark
cheek. He began quietly to state the
soldier's wishes.

* What a goose he is ! " said Delia, when
the story had been told.

Felix was gratified. He would have liked
to rise and set a chair for Delia, but this
would have been such an unwonted proceeding,
that it must have roused her
attention, and for the present he did not
dare to do that; he wanted to let things drift.

'was he very droll, Coz?" she next
inquired.

'' Droll ! " exclaimed Felix ; '' droll, poor
fellow! No. Why?"

Delia was standing before him, with her
whip in her hand ; she was twisting round
it a long bine of wild briony that she had
gathered in the hedge. '' Oh, because you
look so  so amused. I don't like you to
look pleased."

Felix could not help looking pleased.

Why ? " he inquired, almost faintly.

Delia made no answer for the moment.
She seemed to cogitate ; then she said, ina
pleading tone, " I suppose I'm not obliged
to try to Hke him, Coz, if I don't wish ? "

' Certainly not," replied Felix.

Delia came and sat down beside him next,
and she blushed, and seemed to look inquiringly
at him. So sweet a hope had
never dawned in the heart of Felix in all
his life, as swelled it in that happy moment,
but he said not a word.

Then the unreasonable young creature
laughed, and shrugged her shoulders. ' If
you want me to send an answer to him,"
she said, ' you'd better tel me what to
say; for, of comes, I don't know."

Felix was so sure she did not care
for her lover, that he found no difficulty
in doing him justice, and in taking care
that his suit was duly presented.

How can I tell what to say, unless I
Imo what you feel ? " he inquired.

*'I don't feel anything particular," replied
Delia  ' excepting when he comes,"
she added.

 And what then ? "

"And then I do so wish he would go."

Felix laughed. He felt that the situation
was getting the mastery over him. This
child of his adoption was so sweet, so
familiarly affectionate in her manner towards
him, that he could not hut retain his
old household ways with her, and yet she
did not now give him her good-morning
kiss without making him tremble from head
to foot. He started up hastily from his
seat, and began to pace the room. Delia
still occupied her hand with the strand
of wild briony, and he looked at her : a
beautiful blush went and came on her
rounded cheek ; it seemed that she could
not meet his eyes.

* Delia," he said, stopping opposite to
her, and speaking not without some trembles
in his voice, ' you must say yourself
what I am to repeat to him. You
must make a direct answer to his proposal."


 He's so old," said Delia, as if excusing
herself for not caring about him.

Old ! " exclaimed Felix, astonished and
almost horrified. He felt himself turning
chill, and a sudden dimness seemed to
becloud all his dearest hopes. *she is
only six and twenty," he went on, sitting
down and sighing.

** He's much older than Dick," said
Delia.  Oh  I would much rather 
wait  for Dick."

Felix looked at her earnestly while she
spoke ; a flood of rosy colour covered her
fair face and throat. She bent her head a
little, and was too much absorbed in her
own trouble to notice that Coz was pale.

' Wait for Dick ? " repeated Felix, in the
quietest of tones.

Delia felt something unusual in it; a
certain dulness and dimness made it seem
far off. She blushed yet more deeply. ' I
did not think you would mind," she
began.

 Dick is a mere boy," said FeHx.  Is
it possible that he has spoken ahead ? "

*' No, he hasn't yet," answered Delia
excusing him ; " but he will soon."

'' He will soon ? " repeated Felix, between
astonishment and dismay, and instantly
Delia started up and ran to him. He rose
to meet her, and putting her dimpled hand
on his shoulder, she sighed out 

''Oh, Coz, don't tell him. I did not
mean to say it."

Never mind, my sweet," he answered,
and it seemed as if he was consoling her 
never mind ; it cannot be helped."

'but you'll never tell any one?" she

entreated, and she laid her cheek for a
moment against his.

He answered, ''No."

''No, Coz, dearest, don't," she repeated;
and there he is coming." She had caught
the sound of Dick's foot outside the door,
and, with a mischievous little laugh, she
snatched up the train of her habit, and,
darting out at the open window, ran to join
Sir Samuel, who was sitting under a chestnut
tree on a low bench.

She spent the next quarter of an hour
in thinking a good deal about her cheeks,
now and then laying her dimpled hand
upon them, to ascertain whether they were
growing cooler.

Felix spent the same time in his study,
sitting perfectly motionless and silent. He
had wasted his youth on a long, obstinately
cherished attachment ; it, had melted away
quite unaware, and for the last few weeks
only a few weeks  a new one had risen,

VOL. III.

suddenly as a star. Delia was so young.
He knew, of course, that at present she felt
only a childlike love for him, but he never
supposed that she loved any one else ; and
now she herself had told him that she did,
and if he could believe that she knew
her own mind, his hope was lost, and his
day was over.

CHAPTEK IX.

Little Peep was dead. Amias wrote a
long, affecting account of his last illness to
Annabel, how for many alternate nights he
and Lord Eobert had watched by him,
how patient and content he was, and how
kind Mr. Tanner had been.

Amabel kissed the letter ; it pleased her
to think that Amias had such an affectionate
heart.

Lord Eobert, it seemed, had "broken
down" at the funeral. Yes, but Lord
Eobert had got a fine appointment in one
of the colonies ; he would sail in a few days
with his pretty wife, and soon forget poor
little Peep. Amias never would.

Little Peep, in his last will and testament,
left several thousand pounds in trust to
Amias, to build a temperance public-house,
and his portrait was to hang in the bar.

Little Peep was there represented as a
young man of average size, and a decidedly
intellectual countenance. The temperance
lecture that Amias had written, appeared
in his hand as a folded scroll, and he was
coming forward on a platform to read it.

The poor young fellow took much
innocent pride in this picture, and the
last night of his life, when Lord Eobert
and Amias were both with him, he told
them what he intended to have done
with it.

* Some people think it an excellent
likeness," he said, faintly. '' I enjoy public
speaking, and if it had pleased God to
prolong my life, I might have made myself
a name by it. I might have done something
great."

'That you would, dear boy," said Lord
Robert ; and soon after this he died.

 He had so many endearing qualities,"
said Amias, speaking to Lord Eobert the
night after his funeral  " so many endearing
qualities  that it was impossible to
despise him, and yet I think, on the whole,
he was the greatest fool I ever knew."

** He was not by any means the greatest
fool I ever knew," answered Lord Robert,
pointedly, and in a tone of good-natured
banter.

*why, what have I done now?" exclaimed
Amias.

Oh, nothing now ; but I do not see why
you are to be allowed to go about the
country making yourself conspicuous for
this temperance cause, without being made
to pay for it."

I have paid," answered Amias. '' I paid
when I was a boy."

' But I have a fine eye. I observe the

march of events. You'll see that poetical
justice will be done upon you before long.
I don't say that I should not take a certain
pleasure in seeing it done."

** What do you mean, Bob ? "

' When you took yourself off from your
old uncle, he had three sons. They have
all died, one after the other, and every year
he became more attached to you. Now,
there's a great uncertainty about the ways
of this world ; people don't always do in
real life what is expected of them. Bit
if you had been a man in a book, Amias,
the old uncle about this time would have
done poetical justice upon you ; he would
have let you know  in fact, he would have
said, in the presence of those friends you
most liked (would, perhaps, have convened
them on purpose to hear it)  that but for
your rebellious, unfilial, and unfeeling
conduct to him, he would have (leaving
a poor fortune to each of his granddaughters)

 he would have adopted you,
and made you his principal heu"

*' Verdict, ' serve me right,' " said Amias.

' The march of events distinctly points to
such a catastrophe," continued Lord Eobert.
'depend on it, he will say something of
the sort before he has done with you."

 Poor old man ! " answered Amias. " No,
Bob, he never will; he will say nothing
of the sort."

' But am I to have these noble aspirations
after poetical justice for nothing ? "

'' Time will show."

'If I had been blessed with such an
uncle, would I have so treated him ? Yes,
Amias, I repeat it : little Peep was not the
greatest fool / ever knew."

A very eventful year followed for the De
Berengers, but Hannah Dill, who thought of
them unceasingly, never had a hint of anything
that concerned them ; her darlings, as

she often felt, with an almost unbearable
pang, might be dead and bmied, while she
knew nothing of it. But her little son
helped her to endure this uncertainty, as he
also helped to fill the empty, aching heart.

Her husband had quite, for the time, got
over those paroxysms of craving for stimulus ;
he could trust himself alone about the town,
but he never proposed to speak at meetings
again, and she did not conceal her opinion
that this was best.

But now the last of Sir Samuel's money
was spent, and though Uzziah worked hard,
his poor earnings did not quite keep them.
Several of their best articles of clothing had
been sold, yet he could not make up his
mind to let his wife write to Mr. Bartlett
for the money due to her, so much was he
afraid now of bringing himself into undesirable
notice.

And yet money was sorely wanted  money
for the quarter's rent now nearly due  and,

after the only discussion they had held since
leaving London, Dill consented to write to
Mr. Bartlett, authorizing him to give the
money to his wife, and then consented to
her going to London, and taking the letter
by hand, so as not to betray his whereabout. '

With great difficulty, and by the sale of
every article that they could possibly spare,
they scraped together just enough money to
pay for an excursion ticket, and then, some
small provision of food tied up in a handkerchief,
the husband and wife proceeded to
the station, the former carrying his child.

* Keep a good heart," said the wife as she
took leave of him ; but unaccountable depression
weighed down her own heart. She
had not an easy moment during the long
journey, and she walked to Mr. Bartlett's
house full of wretched forebodings.

A pale, faded woman, he scarcely knew
her at first, but she soon recalled herself to
his mind, and, almost to her own astonishment,

she got all the money due to her,
with only the little formality of waiting for
her husband's signature, which she wrote for
and obtained, before she could carry it away.

' And now you have got it," he said to
her, with a certain dispassionate curiosity,
which was more an interest in the event
than in her, the human agent that was to
bring it to pass  'snow you have got it,
Mrs. Hannah Dill, do you mind telling me
what you are going to do with it ? "

< Why, take it to my poor husband, sir."

'soh!" was all he answered; but he
looked at her in a way that suggested both
surprise and incredulity.  I only asked
you as a friend," he observed. *' Of course
it does not matter to me what you do. I
am perfectly safe."

"Yes, sir; but what else should you
think I would do ? "

Should I think ? " he repeated. " Well,
I may have thought you would go on as
you began."

'' Sir, in the other case I only acted
against Dill, to save, if I could, his poor
children; not to save myself."

'' And this poor child ? "

' I fare to think he cannot be saved,
sir," she answered, melting into tears.
* His father sets that store by him that I
could not be so cruel as to carry him off."

sewell, well, Mrs. Dill," he answered,
' it is no business of mine  none at all."

'' I was never treacherous to him," she
interrupted. *' I never said to him that
former time,  Dill, I am off to get our
money. Keep a good heart ; I am coming
home as soon as I can.' "

' And you did say so this time ? "

' Certainly."

** Well, Mrs. Dill, I am truly sorry for
you."

His voice was rather kind, but his
manner suggested all manner of doubts to
her  doubts as to what she really meant

to do, and doubts whether, knowing what
she meant to do, she was wise ; but she
had hardly reached her humble lodging,
before she became calm and assured again.
She had promised her poor husband that she
would go back to him, and go she would.

But, oh ! with what fear she returned ;
with what crowding, unfortunate presentiments
! What they meant she could not
tell, but she never lost them for a moment
till she stopped at Whitby Station, and
saw her landlady waiting to meet her, and
smiling in cordial, pleasant fashion, as she
stepped up to the carriage door.

* Dill was off to a little hamlet, some
miles off," she explained, ' and would not
be back till the next day. A poor man,
whom he sometimes went to read to, was
near his end, and had just sent to beg
that he would sit up with him that night
and pray with him."

'' And Dill is all right ? " asked the wife.

"As right as can be," was the answer.

Where now were all her fears ?

She was so wearied and exhausted with
what she had gone through, that her knees
shook and her head ached. The relief was
great of finding her superstition, as she
now called it, unjustified by any reasonable
cause, yet she could not settle to any
work. What she had gone through is by
no means a rare experience ; it had been
a restless sense of conscious danger or of
deep need, weighing down the spirit of
her husband, and having power to affect
her, making her a partaker of his misery,
without imparting to her the cause. She
knew she should not be quite at ease till
she had seen Uzziah, and she wanted to
pass away the time, so as soon as she had
taken something to eat, she dressed her
boy in his best, and went forth among the
visitors to the pier that forms one side of
the harbor'. She had been so deeply

brooding over her own thoughts, that during
the journey she had hardly noted anything
that passed around her. Now her eyes
wandered with conscious refreshment, and
her ears were thankful and attentive ; all
that passed helped to fill her mind with
fresh images. Two old fishermen were
coiling ropes close to her seat. Ay, ay,"
quoth one to the other, speaking with deep
pity of the visitors, ' there they was,
dawdling about, poor souls ; nought to do
but listen to the pestilent music tootle-cooing,
fit to drive 'em distracted. Folks
should be piped to their work, and not to
their play."

"What's a lugger?" some boy 'coming
up asked the other fisherman.

His companion quietly went on with his
business, while he answered, in his broad
dialect and soft, persuasive voice, " What's
a lugger? Why, that's one; her that hasa
small mizzen and lug sail on it."

** Won't her masts come out ? " asked a
still younger boy.

' Ay, for sure ; they have kin' o' steps in
the boat for to rest 'em on  yo' can see 'em.
They make the foremast rake a vast. Now,
mebbe yo' don't see what that's fur."

Neither of the urchins pretended that he
did see.

He continued, *rit's to give the wind
more power, so's to lift the sail  git under
it like ; and so, if she's heavy laden wi' fish,
to lift her at the bows moor out o' t' water."

This valuable information was given with
conscientious care : in his deep pity for these
poor children of the land, the old seaman
would neglect no opportunity, but do his
manifest duty towards them, which was to
put the A B C of shipping life (and what
other life is worth the name ?) plainly before
them.

Mrs. Dill looked at their rosy faces with
interest. A great many little boys are

brought up by old fishermen to take to the
water. A few quaint phrases stick in their
minds. The loss of that one life-boat, the
Whitby life-boat, has alone caused many
youths to risk their lives, for danger that
ends in death has a fearful attractiveness ;
it draws the island children out, quite as
strongly as that which is surmounted and
comes safe home again.

' Ay, t' harbour dues are high," she next
heard on her other side. ' What do they
come to ? Why, nigh upon sixpence a ton ! "

*' Oh ! " said the lady who had inquired.
*' Then, how much will that ship pay?"
indicating a vessel with her finger.

*that collier schooner?" asked the
fisherman, with genuine pity in his air.
* She's not a ship at all, mem. Well, mebbe
eighteen shillings. Folks say t' new dues
keep out t' vessels. But I don't complain ;
when God shuts one door. He mostly opens
another. There's less shipping, but there's

moor fish. Who pays for t' Hghts ?

Why, every vessel that passes Whitby
lights has to pay a halfpenny."

' All those vessels out there ? Why,
surely it's not worth while to send out to
them for only a halfpenny ? "

The old fisherman straightened himself
up when he heard this, and looked at his
mate, as if he would have him testify that
the words had truly been said.

' The vessels pay wheel they start from
say Hull. You've heard talk of Hub ? "
he then replied, doubtfully.

 Why, of course ! "

'' Oh, Wasn't sure. Hull, or Sunderland,
or wheel not."

' Your boat's ready now, mem," said the
second old man.

Take entry care on 'em, mate," whispered
his fellow, with something like contempt
; 'for they're real land lubbers, and
no mistake. And her, the mother of a

VOL. III. p

family, too, to know nothing more than
the babe unborn ! "

 Bless you," replied his companion,
' what should she know of dues nor what's
reasonable ? If you'll me believe, she asked
me las' night whither their were any difference
twixt a roasted and a harbour ! "

Mrs. Dill smiled, so exquisite was the
enjoyment of the old fishermen over this
ignorance 'sin the mother of six." She
watched the boys and this rosy-faced parent
down to their boat. They were going to
fish  at least, they thought so ; the old
fisherman was going to bait the Hues, and
they were going to hold them.

It was a still, warm day. A great bulging
cloud, black and low, was riding slowly up
from the south. The cliffs had gone into
the brooding darkness of this cloud, which
had stooped to take them in. The water
was spotted with flights of thistledown,
floated from the meadows behind the

church, and riding out to sea. Suddenly
a hole was blown in the advancing and
lowering cloud ; the sun glared through
it, and all the water where his light fell was
green as grass, and the black hulls of the
crowded vessels gUttered ; while under the
cliff a long reach of peaked red roofs looked
warmer and more homehke than ever, and
on the top of them the wide old church
seemed to crouch, like a great sea-beast at
rest, and the ruined abbey, well uj) on the
hill, stood gaunt and pale, like the skeleton
ribs and arms of a dead thing in sore need
of burial.

So Mrs. Dill thought ; but then she was
not cultivated enough to love death and
decay. She felt the weird gloom of the
cloud and the blackness of the nearer
water ; something of its gloom came over
her also ; the short respite that change had
brought was over. A weight fell down upon
her ; the peculiar instinct of coming sorrow

was upon her again. A step was drawing
near rather slowly. She knew it, and a
more than common pang of pity shot
through her heart ; it included her husband
and herself, and the child, while seated on
her knee the little fellow held up his arms
and hailed,  Daddy, daddy ! "

Hannah Dill looked up at her husband,

and at the moment was too much struck by

his appearance to speak. His eyes were

not absolutely looking at her, though, a

little wider open than usual, they seemed

to take in the whole scene  the lowering

cloud, the grass-green sea, the rocking

boats, and herself and her child. Was it

the arrest of some great surprise that held

him motionless ? That could not be all.

He was lost in thought, and wonder, and

perplexity. There was nothing like fear

in his face, but no fear could have made

it more utterly pale.

"Uzziah! " she exclaimed, with a sharp

cry of terror and suspense. Then, as it
seemed, lie brought his eyes to look at her,
and his lips moved; but he uttered no
sound. *' Whatever is it? Do speak!"
she said, faintly.

And in a low, mumbling tone, he said
slowly, " I went to read with Jonah."

' Well ? " she cried. That was no answer
to her question.

'He's dead," proceeded Uzziah.

"Well?" she repeated, shuddering; for
he looked distraught, and it seemed as if his
thoughts were still remote. But as he saw
the terror in her face he appeared to note
it (yet not till he had examined her well
with his eyes), and then to rouse himself
with a sudden start, and with a violent
effort to regain almost his usual manner
and voice.

"It looks like a storm coming up," he
said, while his wife, trembling and sick at
heart, wiped away a few tears.

He was folding up a newspaper in his
shaking hand ; he now put it in his pocket,
and when his child slid from the mother's
knee, and toddled toward him, he retreated,
saying

**No! Maybe you'd liefer lead him
course, Hannah ! And I've nothing to
say against it."

She rose then. There was something
wrong, and she did not dare to hear it,
or ask what it was. He preceded her to
the house, and she noticed that, his hand
in his pocket, he kept hold of the newspaper
all the way. Yet when they got
home the strange manner was all but gone :
he was less pale, more observant ; he could
even eat. And she was very thankful fora
comfortable meal. She ate and drank
almost with urgency, for she thought
there must be something terrible for her
to hear, and that she would fortify herself
for it beforehand. Something, she thought,

was impending; but nothing occurred. As
soon as he had eaten, he told her he was
going out to the shore to pray, and he
did not return till ten at night.

''I am not going to bed this night,"
was all he said, when she, weary with
her journey, roused herself up to let him in.

She went up to bed, and while she undressed,
heard him as he sighed to God,
and afterwards heard the same sighing in
her dreams ; but she was greatly wearied,
and when at last she woke, in full daylight,
and all the splendour of an August morning,
it startled her to find that there was silence
below at last.

She stole downstairs. Her husband,
dressed in all his best clothes, had opened
the window, and was sitting with his head
leaning on the sill, fast asleep. He looked
exhausted, and she thought he must be
going to be ill. He had not treated himself
to a holiday for many months. As he

had said nothing, there could, she now
thought, be nothing to say; he must and
should have a day on the heather, and
breathe the air from the hills. She went
out quietly, bought some fish for breakfast,
made the fire, and dressed the child.

It was not till past eight o'clock that
he woke, and she called him to his breakfast,
and laid her plan before him. Oh
how gentle and quiet he was ! How little
was left of the husband of her youth ! He
was to see what money she had brought.
Yes, he would. He was to rouse himself
up. He would try. He was to go with
her and the child in the railway to a place
he had loved the previous summer, and they
were to sit together on the hills. Yes  so
best. She began to get alarmed again, as
she saw how quietly he sat while she made
her simple preparations.

And they went. They stopped a few
miles out of Whitby, at a station called

Gothland, between two great expanses
of heather. They climbed the steep, cliff-like
hill on the left-hand side, and reached
a long expanse, all purple and gold; a
lovely, peaceful view spread itself forth in
successive descents at their feet. The place
was remote from life, and yet it was not
lonely, for every valley, as it lay open for
inspection, had its own farmhouse, and on
every space of grass kine were feeding.

What peace appeared to rest as a
presence over the purple moor ! The child
was happy with his flowers ; the mother
sat quietly looking about her, and feeling
thankful for the rest. She thought change
might have done her poor husband good.
He had eaten, and was wandering hither
and thither. She watched him awhile;
then her eyes were attracted to a steep
declivity, down which a sparkling beck
was leaping. In the vale, where it spread
itself out into a shallow, lonely pool, a

crowd of rooks walked on che moss in
companies, and a flock of little finches
washed themselves sportively. She was
still tired. Her eyes rested on scheme careless
creatures with a dull contentment
that was almost pleasure.

She had forgotten her husband for the
moment. Where was he ? Wandering about
in the heather, most likely. Not at hand,
for she turned and could not see him. And
what was this ? Close where he had been
sitting, and almost under her hand, he had
spread out his handkerchief, and laid upon
it most of the money she had given him in
the morning. It was all in gold. Her
heart sank. Why had he done this ? She
counted it. He had taken with him seven
pounds. She looked about her again, and
at last there he was, descending the steep
path toward the station. He was half a
mile off, and before she could decide what
to do, a train came up and stopped. The

lame man's figure was visible, running hard
to reach the little lonely station. He was
the only passenger. She stood up in her
place ; she saw that he was in time, that
the train went on, and that he was gone.

Very few trains stopped there.

It was evening when Hannah Dill and
her child got home. Her husband was not
there ; she had scarcely expected it would be
so. Where, then, was he gone? She looked
about her, and saw her husband's everyday
coat hanging behind the door. She
took it down with a trembling hand. She
was always looking for evil tidings, and
however heavy the blow might be that fell
on her then, it was not a shock, it was
hardly a surprise.

A south-country newspaper was in the
pocket. Her eyes ran down the columns.
She felt, before she saw, what it was that
concerned her. The assizes were going
on. The judge would be at a certain town

that was named, on such and such days.
There were several important trials, and

one Hannah Dill cried ont, and flung

the paper down and wrung her hands.
She saw a name that she knew, the name
of a murdered man. Some of the details
of the crime were given ; she remembered
them. The murderer was found, it appeared,
and was about to be tried.

She quieted herself with difficulty. This
could not concern her, then ? And yet her
terror all concentrated itself upon those assizes.
The paper had been read and re-read
and wept over ; it was still limp with tears.
She must go down to this town in the
south-west. It was not far from the place
where her little Delia had been born. Her
husband had been tried there. She should
die if she remained in ignorance. Why did
she think he had gone there ? She could not
tell; but she must go, and if her husband
did not prove to be there, she was a happier
woman than she feared.

Chapter X.

A FEW days after this, Mrs. Snep, as she
stood ironing in her little cottage by the
hop-garden, saw a respectable-looking
woman standing by her gate. A stout
little boy held her by the hand, and was
crying lustily.

Mrs. Snep did not recognize her. It was
now seventeen years since a tall, gaunt
young woman had craved admittance there.
The young woman was forgotten, but she
could not forget. There was the little path,
and there were the very clumps of pinks, and
the grey bushes of southernwood, and there
was the mistress of the mansion, stouter.

and, as she thought, kindlier-looking than
before.

Mrs. Snep came out, and as she threw an
article of clothing, just ironed, on a bush
to air in the morning sun, she cast an
observant eye on the stranger, who, coming
forward, begged to ask for a seat until the
carrier should appear, and begged to know
if she might have a slice of bread and some
milk for her child. She had not been able to
give him his usual breakfast, and he was
cross, and tired too, for they had been
travelling all night.

The stranger had a shilling in her hand,
and expressed her willingness to pay for
what she had, so she was soon made welcome
to a seat in the cottage. Some tea was
made for her, and while she crumbled bread
into a saucer for her boy, and poured
m ilk upon it, a tide of recollections flowed
up. She remembered the days before her
little Delia was born, and afterwards all

that she had suffered. Just so, in that
same place, and perhaps in that very chair,
her little Amabel had sat beside her, contented
with her bread and milk. The click
of Mrs. Snep's iron appeared familiar ; the
hops leaned over the little back window,
just as in the former days.

*rand so you want to go on by the
carrier's cart ? " said Mrs. Snep. ' It does
not pass till noon."

*'I know that, ma'am; I have been the
journey before."

'' Oh, you know these parts, ma'am ? "

*' I did a good many years ago."

'well, things don't change here much,
that's certain. We've got the same squire,
and the same doctor, and the same parson
we've had for years."

'' The parson's name was Mr. de Serene
faltered Mrs. Dill, 'when I knew
these parts."

Oh, he was the curate. We have no
curate now," answered Mrs. Snep.

' Indeed, ma'am."

He must have been gone these fifteen
years."

' And well-nigh forgot by this time, I
should judge," sighed Mrs. Dill, for an
anguish of desire urged her to speak of him
if she could ; he stood so near to her
darlings.

'forgot!" exclaimed Mrs. Snep; 'not
by any means, I can tell you, ma'am. It's
only two years since he came to stay at the
vicarage ; and I've reason enough to remember
that, for my daughter  my second one,
that will be three and twenty if she lives till
Michaelmas  Mary ' '

"Yes? " exclaimed Mrs. Dill, with keen
interest.

Mrs. Snep paused to take another iron
from the fire, then, attacking her narrative
at a different point, said, " Miss Sarah de
Berenger, and aunt to that Mr. de Berenger,
had wrote to our vicar's lady while he was

here, and said she wanted a parlour-maid ;
and she wanted one from a distance, for she
could not allow followers. And so our
vicar's lady and Mr. de Berenger managed
the thing . between them. And Mary took
the place, worse luck ! "

*why, I know Miss de Berenger quite
well, ma'am ! " exclaimed Mrs. Dill, a warm
flush of joy passing over her face. ' I lived
in a situation for many years within four
miles of her."

*' No, you don't say so, ma'am ! She
was the nearest woman, and the meanest,
that ever I had to do with, as you'll judge,
when I tell you that I'm ironing my girl's
clothes for her next place, and there's not a
scrap of black among them."

"Black!" faltered Mrs. DHL "Why,
who's dead?"

"Who should be dead, ma'am? Why,
Miss de Berenger herself. Didn't you know
it?"

VOL. III. Q

*' Dear me, no. I am come a long way;
I've heard nothing. She was in the best of
health when last I heard of her."

' And might be now. It was an accident
that killed her. The old gentleman, that
used to be so rich, was driving her out, poor
lady, and they got overturned. She never
spoke again, my girl says. Ah, there have
been many changes in that family ; it's as
much as there often is in the newspapers to
read of them. Perhaps you knew the old
gentleman? "

'i've seen him times out of mind,
ma'am," faltered the poor mother. She
dared not now mention her children. Had
those changes affected them ?

'' They say," proceeded Mrs. Snep, 'that
of all his fine houses and lands, he have but
enough left just to keep him."

"Why, I never heard of such a thing,"
cried Mrs. Dill. " I did not fare to think
rich folks like that could lose their property."

' It was a company he had shares in that
has done it for him, my daughter said. All
the country rang with it. It arose from
what people cal unlimited Haughty. There
are two pretty young ladies, that folks do
say are his granddaughters. You've seen
them too, mayhap. He likes to ride about
what used to be his own park with them,
and he's as happy as a king."

The mother sighed for joy ; she could
not speak. Her children were among the
living, then, and they were well.

The operation of sprinkling the clothes
occupied Mrs. Snep for a minute or two,
and gave Hannah Dill time to recover herself.
' Sides about with Miss Amabel and
Miss Delia, does he ? " she presently found
voice enough to say.

 Their very names, ma'am; you have
them quite pat."

'' But I should have thought to lose his
money would break his heart."

"Ifc does not, ma'am. My daughter
stayed at the rectory for three months
after Miss de Berenger's death. They
wanted extra help, and paid her handsome.
They are better off now, of course. She
said it was as good as a printed book to seo
how the old gentleman went on. He is
upward of eighty, and has lost his memory,
but I should judge he must be a little-childish
too. He has no servant left but
one old man, that always wait on him
and he has a fat old horse in the rectory
stable. He lives with Mr. de Berenger, and
does not know that he has lost his money.
His notion is that hb is making his great
fortune greater. Saving up, you know, to-leave
more behind him."

He never could bear to spend much
money," observed Mrs. Dill. "And so the
young ladies ride with him, and are attentive
to him ? "

'' So I hear, ma'am. And what he costs.

che Berenger, lie has about enough
money left to pay for. When he gets tired
of the country, my daughter says they put
him in the train and telegraph to his other
nephew, that lives in London, to meet him.
And that's what he does, and takes him
home, and there the old gentleman plays
the same game. It's not worth while, he
says, to have a town house, and that is
why he has let ifc, for he wants to save.
He says he must go and see that the people
his house is let to are taking care of it.
And those folks are so regardful and kind,
knotting the case, that they always satisfy
him, and, as I said, he is as cheerful and as
happy as a king."

'' Well, I never ! " exclaimed Mrs. Dill.

She was glowing all over with a warmth
and joy that she had hardly ever expected
to feel again. Even her miserable errand
receded into the background, and made way
for the various pictures of her children that

had been presented to her. They were
well, pretty, useful, happy. Oh, there was
sunshine yet in this world, and she was
basking in it.

'the Mr. de Berengers are better off
now, no doubt?" she presently said, still
desirous to prolong the conversation.
'' Not by a shilling," replied Mrs. Snep.
'' Well, I always hoped, though Miss de
Berenger was so fond of making schemes
about her will, that she would do the right
thing by her nephews."

*' Then she didn't, ma'am."
Who did her money go to, then ? '*
'' She'd almost doubled it during her Lifetime,
as I heard tell, and they say her house
was a sight for the useful things she'd got
together  stores of linen, and china, ' and
what not. And she left it all  her farms,
and her house, and her money  to those twa
young ladies ; everything, down to the very
jam-pots on her shelves, and the clothes in

her drawers, and the thimbles iu her workbox.
They say those two young ladies
have more than eighteen thousand pounds
apiece."

More than eighteen thousand pounds
apiece ! And the man that had been so good
to them  that had brought them up and
loved them, and even been proud of them 
he had got nothing !

Oh, how sweet it was to hear even this
stranger talk of them ! But oh, how bitter
to hear that the kindness of Felix de Serene
had been so rewarded, and that Sarah,
in her obstinate, wilful mistake about them,
should have robbed her own flesh and blood
for their sake !

Could any good come of money so inherited
? No ; thei mother thought it
could not. She became cold and pale. It
was not till Mrs. Snep mentioned their
names again that she roused herself; but it
was only to hear what caused her fresh

anxiety, and to be shown that a most
difficult, a most bitter, duty towards her
darlings was yet to do.

*sone of the two is engaged to be
married, as I'm told," said Mrs. Snep.

It must be the eldest, then," said Mrs.
Dill, trembling with excitement, and the
surprise of thus collecting information about
her darlings.

"Well, now, I should have said not."
But the other is so very young."
I know there was a young soldier-officer
that made one of them an offer. He went
away, and came back lately and offered to
her again. I think he is the gentleman,
and I think it is the youngest. But they're
thoughtless  the young ladies are both
thoughtless," continued Mrs. Snep, going
off on a part of the subject more interesting
to her than Delia's lover. " As I said, Miss
de Berenger never left so much as one black
gown apiece to her servants, though some

of them had lived with her for years. Those
young ladies were kind  I will say that ;
but neither of them had the thought to put
the servants into mourning, and my daughter
came home to me without a scrap of
Hack upon her."

*' Somebody did ought to have told the
3oung ladies what was the custom," said
the mother, apologizing for them.

' So I say, ma'am."

'' Oh, my Dora ! " thought Hannah Bill ;
 ' do you love this young gentleman ? And
must your mother go and tell you that
you've no right at all to keep Miss Sarah's
money. When will there be an end to my
sorrows? Maybe the young man will be
off the bargain if you give up the fortune ;
and if you refuse to do so, your mother '11
never have an easy hour about sou anymore."


And what was the true state of the case

about Delia ? This. That the young officer-had,
indeed, returned at the end of the year,,
and had again offered her his hand. Urged
by Amabel to give him a Httle time, and not
to reject him hastily, Delia had agreed to
consider the matter for a few weeks, and to
try to like him. She had failed ; and that
very morning, while her little brother ate his
bread and milk, she had, with many flushes
and blushes, a great deal of pity for him,,
and some shame for herself, contrived to
tell him so. He was gone, and just as her
mother left the house where she had been
born, and met the carrier's cart, Delia darted
upstairs to Amabel's room, and stood looking,
at her sister with blushing discomfiture.

Amabel came up to her and smoothed
her cheek gently against hers  a kind of
moderate caress that the girls had used
from their childhood.

 What a goose you are, Delia ! " she said.

' Yes, I know," said Delia, ruefully.

* You've sent him away."
 Of course : Coz said I must. I wish 
oh, I wish Coz cliclnH hnoiu ! "

' He'll never tell ! " exclaimed Amabel.
 No ; but I know that he knows."

Delia moved to the dressing-table, and
in an absent and agitated fashion began
to try on some of Amabel's rings. Presently
she saw Dick in the garden; he was apparently
deep) in thought. Delia drew
backward in the room and smiled.

* Coz and Amias have been talking to
him all the morning," whispered Amabel.
* He says now he should like to go to sea,"
she continued, nodding towards Dick.

*' Does he ?" exclaimed Delia. ' Oh no,
Dick ; I think you'll find you do not wish
to go to sea."

'' Then you should not have set him
against emigrating."

It may have fairly been said of Master
Dick at that time, that he did not know

his own mind, unless it may have been
said more fairly still that lie did not know
somebody else's mind, any more than he
knew how completely that mind had the
mastery over his.

Sir Samuel de Berenger had put him
to school till he was eighteen years old,
and then, when he came home for the
holidays, his two brothers had sat in judgment
on him and his future ; when it was
found that he had done so very well, and
stood so very high, that if they let him
stay at school another year, he would in
all probability get a good exhibition, which
would enable him to go to college almost
for nothing, after which he would be able
to provide for his own living.

And Dick had come home without getting
the exhibition. He was now nineteen, a
remarkably fine, handsome young fellow,
brown all over, taller than either of his
two brothers, very engaging, rather inclined

to be idle, and quite helpless in the hands
of these said brothers, who had, at some
inconvenience to themselves, prolonged his
school days for him, and now did not very
well know what to do with him.

Dick had only been in the garden a few
minutes when he saw Delia sitting in the
open window of what had been the nursery,
with some ' art needlework " in her hand.

' How nice this room looks, with poor
Aunt Sarah's things in it !" he said, accosting
her and sitting on the window-sill. " No
one would know it.  I say, Delia ! "

Yes."

' I've had such a wigging this morning."

*' Oh ! you should decide, then, what you'll
do  what you'll be."

'well, I said I would go to sea, and
they won't let me. Why, DeHa, where did
you get those rings ? "

'' Oh, they belong to Amabel. I'm so
fond of rings, and I have not got one."

'why don't you buy some, then?" said
Dick.

'mabel never bought one of hers ; rings
are supposed to be presents. If I wore
rings, and was asked who gave them to me,
I shouldn't like to have to say I bought
them."

Dick revolved a certain thing in his
mind. " Look here," he began ; " if I go to
sea for two or three years "

"It will be so dull," interrupted Delia,
'if you go to sea and Amabel's gone."

"Well, but if I do, I could give you a
Ting for a parting present."

So you could; and I could give one to
you, with your crest on it."

"If I go to sea." No occasion to wait
for that. Dick took himself off in less than
five minutes, and in hot haste demanded
of Felix a large, old-fashioned gold watch,
which had been his father's, and which he
had knocked about a good deal at school.

It had plenty of good stuff in it. Felix
looked at him almost as if he knew all about
it, and gave him the watch in silence and
with gravity.

It was four miles to the town, and Dick
ran almost all the way. He did not make a
had bargain with the one jeweller that the
place afforded, and then the price he was
to have for his watch being agreed upon,
he set himself to overhaul the whole
shop for two pretty rings. It never once
occurred to him that it was odd he should
be desirous to lay out his whole fortune
on a fancy of Delia's  he never considered
once what his brother would say to it if he
knew ; and yet when he got home, though
he had the two tiny cases in his waistcoat
pocket, and opportunities were not wanting
for the presentation, he could not give
them to her. It was not till the next
morning, about the same hour, that he
saw Delia sitting in the same place, all over

blushes and dimples. He approached, and
getting over the low sill, sat down beside
her on the couch, and said, *' I've got them.
Eather jolly ones, I think; only I'm afraid
they're too big for your finger." He looked
very shamefaced.

Delia put forth her little finger, the
same on which she had worn Amabel's
rings. They were manifestly too big for
it. Then she put forth her middle finger,
and for that they were a little too tight.

'what a pity!" said Delia. 'And
they're such pretty ones ; just the sort I
like."

sewell, put them on your third finger
then," rejoined the donor.

' Oh, but I couldn't wear them there,"
said Delia, blushing till her forehead and
throat were all one lovely hue of carnation.
-

In an instant Dick knew why; but it
was his destiny to be a lucky dog. He

blushed himself, but lie said stoutly, '' Why
not?"

 Because that's the ' engaged ' finger, you
know, Dick," she answered.

Dick was holding her hand in one of his,
and had the rings in the other.

 Oh," he said, almost with a groan,
"what a fool I have been!" And Delia 
this exquisite Delia, who all on a sudden
had become almost unbearably delightful 
Delia was turning away her face from him.
I'm nothing but a schoolboy yet," he said,
with deep disgust against himself. " If I
had but worked as I ought to have done, it
might have been different." But that blush
of Delia's was the making of him. 'put
them on, if only for a moment," he said,
pleadingly. And she let him put them on
her " engaged " finger.

"It can only be for a little while," she
observed. But how pretty they looked
there !

Vol. Ill, B

* Even if you won't wear them, you
mean to keep them ? " lie urged.

Delia had closed her dimpled fist, and
was looking at them wistfully.

' Suppose you take care of them forme,"
she said ; but she made no movement
towards unclosing her hand or taking
them off.

" Take care of them till when ? "

Delia still looked at them, then her little
hand unclosed, and Dick took it in his.

Coz would be displeased," she whispered.

You mean that he would, because I've
been an idle dog, and because  well, he
said it yesterday  because I seem very well
content to be loafing about here, doing
nothing."

Delia was silent.

But that's alL over now," he added impetuously.
' I'm going to Felix directly 
this minute. I intend to settle to something
at once  forthwith. And then "

By this time she had taken off the rings,
and put them into his hand.

' And then, Delia " he repeated.

But had not Delia got all she wished
for now? Perhaps she thought so. At any
rate, Dick's glimpse of paradise was over.
' Oh, then," she said (she had such a
mischievous little dimple in her cheek when
she laughed)  ' oh, then  we shall see."

Chapter XI.

Sarah de Beeengee was indeed gone ; lier
guiding hand was at last withdrawn.

I have lost my aunt," Felix would say,
and ever after he felt an uneasy want of
those fresh and direct expressions of opinion
that often showed him what he really
thought himself, as well as of her fearless
certainties, and her fertile crops of schemes.
But he did not know, it never occurred to
him to consider, that for many years she had
been the doer of everything of the least consequence
that had been done in his family.

She was a remarkably foolish woman.
Her impressions were vivid and quite unreasonable
; they soon ripened into convictions,

which never changed. She looked upon
all she had become convinced of as fully
proved, and she followed out all that was so
proved to its just conclusion. There can he
little doubt that it is the fools, and not the
wise, who govern the world. While the wise
are considering, the fools act ; while the wise
investigate, the fools have made up their
minds; by the time the wise have discovered,
the fools have made arrangements, and the
wise, for the sake of law and order, or, if not,
for the sake of peace and quietness, are
obliged to give way.

Sarah had first, as she believed, discovered
an interesting mystery. She had obliged
Hannah Dill, contrary to all her wishes, to
bring the mystery near ; she had, to her own
satisfaction, solved it, and she had, for the
sake of it, deprived her own nephews of every
shilling she possessed. It was all Sarah's
doing that Amias was engaged to a little
girl who was supposed by all the neighbourhood

to have no right to any father's name ;
but then it was Sarah's doing also that old
Sir Samuel, now he had lost his memory, was
more happy in the society of the two girls,
and received more tender attentions from
them, and more real affection, than from any
other creatures. He knew he loved them,
and had ceased to consider how it was, and
under what mistake, his love had first
dawned. If they had been his granddaughters,
just so they might have loved him ;
and they also had ceased, except on important
occasions, to consider why this was. They
lived under a disadvantage which they had
discovered, but then they were saved from
the true disadvantage, which would have
been far worse to bear. They were always
gentle, sweet, and humble, but all was as it
ever had been ; they could not be unhappy
as to their position, for every one about
them loved them.

As for Felix, his life for years past had

been planned out for him by his aunt Sarah.
It is true that he now hopelessly loved this
beautiful Delia, but then for many years she
and her sister had been his delight, his daily
occupation, and his one amusement. He
knew that he would not have given up that
pleasant, cheerful past, even if by so doing
he might have avoided the pain of his present.
And even that present,  could he do
without it ? No ; he must watch over Della's
happiness ; he could find little rest and joy
but in that. He must bring Dick on, help
him on or goad him on, for her sake. Perhaps
he allowed himself to be more severe
on Dick, on her account, than occasion altogether
warranted ; for Dick was but a youth
a fine, honest, healthy, affectionate youth.
Felix considered that Dick was not manly
enough ; not considering that, but for Delia,
he might, perhaps, at his time of life not
have been manly at all.
However, FeHx changed his mind on one

particular morning. Dick had two rings in
his pocket. '' I will not wear either of
them," Delia had said, still it is decided
what you are to he." So Dick had asked to
have a conference, a final conference, on this
great subject with his two brothers, and
then and there he had discussed it  laid
down his own views, stated the 9705 and
cons of all the plans proposed, and expressed
his deep desire to work, in a fashion that
perfectly astonished them.

Amias was exceedingly amused. Felix
sat back in his chair, and looked at him in
puzzled bewilderment.

"Why, you young scamp!" exclaimed
Amias. " Want to go to London the day
after tomorrow !  want to set to work
instantly ! Well, I'll do my very best for
you, as I declared I would the other day,
when you didn't seem to care a straw about
it. But I cannot think what has come to
you."

 The fact is, Delia says " Dick

began.

 Delia says ! " exclaimed Amias, in amazement.


*' Delia says " Dick began again, and

again stuck fast.

' Well, out with it, my boy," said Felix,
gravely and kindly.

Dick had a little ring case now in his
hand ; he put it down, and the ring rolled
omit on to the table. Dick picked it up and
poised it on the top of one of his great
fingers. " Delia says she'll never wear this
for a schoolboy. She will not be engaged
till I have got some career before me  till
I have something to do."

 ' I  think  she  is  quite  right, ' ' said
Amias, gazing at the ring, and uttering the
sentence as if he requu-ed to think between
every word. He looked so much surprised,
however, that Dick, in spite of his nervousness,
bm'st into a short laugh. Then all on

a sudden it flashed upon him that Delia
was included in this astonishment. He could
not bear that this exquisite creature, so wise,
so kind, so loving, should be the subject of
any disparaging surprise. He thought his
own impetuous presumption was alone to
blame. He hastened to declare this. He
meant to be worthy of her. Change his
mind ? Nonsense ! How could he change his
mind ? He had loved her all his life better
than any one else in the world. He hed
always helped her with her lessons. When
they played at * houses" as children, she
was always his little wife.

Everything he said, while more earnest,
became more bo3dsh, till Felix said  

 There, my dear boy, think of improving
yourself, not of excusing Delia. The best
part of your future is already prepared for
you ; make the rest suitable for it, and all
wiUbeweU."

And in the mean time Hannah Dill, with
her child, entered the town where she
feared to find her husband.

The assizes were indeed going on, but
to those who were not directly concerned
in them, this gave no ak of solemnity ; there
was Httle about any whom she accosted
which answered to the fear and dread and
depression in her own mind. And she found
herself unable to ask any questions. She
looked about, she wandered about, till she
found herself in the market-place, and the
buildings about it she felt sme were none
of them what she wanted. And what was
the building she wanted called? She was
not sure whether it was a court-house or a
session-house, or a prison, and she could
not make up her mind to ask. A forlorn
hope that she might get a letter from her
husband, sustained her till she reached the
post-office ; for she had written to Uzziah,
at their poor home in Whitby, told him

where she had gone, and cautiously hinted
at her reason. If her panic had been needless,
and from some other cause he had left
her on the moor, and if he had returned
again after her departure, she knew she
should get a letter. What a blessed
possibility that was ! It comforted her while
she wandered about. And no less did the
strangeness of the place for she had thought
of it till she had formed such a vivid picture
of it in her mind, that, now it was under her
eyes, and wholly unlike her expectation,
it seemed as if all that had any relation toit
might also be different, as if the nightmare
that had oppressed her might be all
unreal. The smiling, bustling market,
where fruit was so eagerly bought and sold,
the market women so earnest in praising
their produce, the old-fashioned red roofs,
the comfortable sunshine, the common
every-day talk,  could these be possible if
several poor creatures were at that moment

in course of being tried for tlieii' lives close
at hand ?

Alas ! there was no letter at the office,
and no telegraphic message for Hannah
Dill. Her child, tired and hungry, began
to cry for his dinner, and she felt that,
when she reached the court, she should
not be allowed to enter unless he was
perfectly quiet and good. She hastened
into an eating-shop and gave him a comfortable
meal, and then, as she glanced out at
the window, she saw what she at once
perceived to be the place she had looked
for; people were hanging about the door,
but many more were coming out than
going in.

' Why were the people coming away?"
she asked. * Were the assizes over ? "

Oh no : but the judges were at lunch;
they always had an interval for lunch at
that time of day."

*' Might one go in and hear the trial ? "

* Certainly; a court of justice was always
open to the public."

She hardly knew how the next half-hour
passed. She was soon standing in the press
outside that door. At first all was silence ;
she seemed to have no chance of getting
in. Afterwards there was a little bustle, and
voices inside struck upon her frightened
ears. Some people were almost as desirous
to enter as she was, but her sharpened
senses showed her some who were only
there for curiosity. *' Five shillings, sir, if
I get in," she whispered to a stalwart man
at her side. Then she turned her pale face,
and, selecting another, repeated the same
words.

An energetic movement on either side of
her soon brought her on. She knew not
how it was done, but the money was given,
and she was all but inside in a very few
minutes. She had not intended to tell her
wretched errand, but it was guessed. Her

money, and these two men, were powerful
enough to bring her to the front ; her face
did the rest. She stood within, and, being
tall, she could see well over the shoulders
and heads of those about her, almost all of
whom where women.

There was no trembling, no sinking, now ;
the people where pressed closely together.
The atmosphere was stifling. She had a
heavy child in her arms, but she knew no
fatigue ; all her soul was in her eyes, for at
present she could hear nothing. Perhaps
there was nothing to hear. The place, as
she took rapid glances about it, looked
almost like a dissenting meeting-house.
The crowded spectators seemed to be ranged
in compartments not unHke pews. Where
would the judges sit ?

Oh ! now there was a movement ; something
that pierced her heart with anguish,
showed her the judges coming in with all
state. These men, who were to doom

others to a disgraceful death, were ushered
in with honour, with observance. She,
poor, wretched woman, felt this with a keenness
that had never struck in all her life on
her sharpened senses before.

It was right, it must be so; sympathy
was all with the law.

In that crowd she felt so utterly alone,
as if none of God's creatures could come
near enough even to know what she
suffered, much less to pity her  the ife
of a possible murderer, a possible murderer's
child, sleeping with his rosy face resting on
her shoulder.

Another movement, which it so chanced
brought her a little forwarder, and there were
the barristers in their wigs, and a name had
been called. Some man answering to the
call was in the pulpit-like enclosure, which
she at once recognized as the witness-box.
Then she saw the prisoner, a pale, small
man, whose forlorn face looked as if no

courage or strength was left in him. As
the witness kissed the book almost carelessly,
certainly with perfect composure and
confidence, he turned his faded eyes upon
him. Hannah Dill lifted up hers.

One fear was over. The prisoner being
tried was a stranger; but another fear
followed closely. Her instinct justified
itself by the event. Sitting among the
spectators, and a very little way behind
the witness, a man leaning forward gazed
and hearkened. Not any change that fear
or fatigue or shame had wrought had so
changed him, that she did not instantly
recognize the deeply watchful and utterly
colourless face. It was her husband.

A terrible trembling seized her, so that
she lost the drift and meaning of the first
few questions and answers. All her thought
was to knows the meaning of Uzziah's expression.


His features were sunk, he was wasted

VOL. iir. s

almost to a shadow ; his eyes were intent on
the witness, and yet there was spread over
his face a certain awful peace. Her wretched
husband was perfectly calm.

She knew not how long she watched him,
but it was till another witness was in the
box, and it was because of a great change in
Uzziah's face that she turned to look and to
listen. It was a confident witness  a witness
almost too willing. He was being
re-examined by the counsel for the prisoner.

remember that you are on your oath'"

/'I do remember it."

* And you swear that this is the man ? "

' I could not forget him."

' But it is seventeen years ago."

 Seventeen years and three months."

seaman changes a good deal in seventeen
years and three months."

* Ay, but a club-foot,  when one hears it
behind one " Here the witness paused.

Well? " said the counsel for the prisoner.

'When I liearcl that man's club-foot, as
lie was following, I felt as if "

' You are not to tell the court what you
felt."

' Well, I mean I knew that was the very
same I heard that fearful time, and I turned
myself, and I saw him."

 You saw the prisoner, certainly ! "

' Ay ; and I knew him at once, and spoke
at once. Said I, ' We have met before.' "

 And as another witness has proved, he
answered, 'Not to my knowledge.' Now,
what had you beside the peculiar sound of
the club-foot to go on, when you said to a
man whom, by your own showing, you had
not seen for seventeen years, ' We have
met before?"

"It was the same man," persisted the
witness. ' I knew him at once, and lie
lineio ney

How did you know him ? Tell the jury
that."

' It was the lock of hair, partly, that hung
over his forehead, and, partly, it was the
oval shape of his face, as he leaned over
poor Tambourine after he'd struck him, that
I remembered."

It's false!" cried a voice that rang
through the court; it's false! You,
William Tasker, don't look at the prisoner ;
look here, look at me ! "

Cries of ' Turn that man out," were heard.
There was confusion in the place where the
sound had proceeded from ; a woman fell
down in a fainting fit ; people rose in their
places ; but before the officer could reach
the man who had spoken, some were helping
the woman out, others had started away
from him. He was standing alone, leaning
on a rail in front.

You, William Tasker," he repeated,
* look at me ! "

The terrified witness turned hastily, and
gazed at him as if fascinated. The counsel

for the prisoner paused. In one terrible
instant every eye was upon Uzziali Dill.
From the judges downwards all gazed at
horn  a lame man, with an oval face, and
a lock of hair that strayed over his forehead.
He leaned forward, with eyes wide open.
He and the witness gazed at one another,
and the unfortunate wife gazed also ; saw
the officers advancing through the crowd to
remove Uzziah ; heard the witness cry out
in a lamentable voice, and beat his breast,
' I've sworn against the innocent, and there
the guilty stands ! " and then heard (not
one syllable was spared to her)  heard her
husband's answer, as they were about to
lead him away, ' You've said the truth now,
William Tasker ; 'twas I that did it. The
Lord have mercy on my sinful soul ! "

Chapter XII.

Some time after this, Hannah Dill seemed
to come back again  she knew not from
whence  and she was sitting on some stone
steps in a quiet flagged court. The sun
was shining  that was the first thing she
noticed; then she observed that she herself
was in the shadow ; that her child, rubbing
his cheek against her sleeve, was caressing
her with  Mummy, mummy;" and that a
tall gentleman was leaning over her, a
gentleman whom she had seen before.

'' Do you know me, Mrs. DiU ? " he asked
her kindly.

She thought he might have said that
several times before.

Yes, sir," she answered in a low, dull
voice. '' It's Mr. Bartlett''

'' What can I do for you ? "

' I want to go to poor Dill."

'you cannot do that now, my poor
friend. He has accused himself; he has
given himself up."

'' I knew he would," she replied, quite
calmly. " That other man's wife is happy
now, and I "

'' Your misfortune is very great," said
Mr. Bartlett. '' I pity you deeply."

'' I saw the prisoner's wife get her arms
round his neck and hug him, while they
led my wretched husband away."

'' Have you any place to go to  have you
lodgings here ? "

No, sir."

'' Well, then, I must arrange for you."

He went quickly from her, and a lady,
who seemed to have been standing above
her on the steps, came down and addressed
her with sympathetic gentleness.

She knew it was Mrs. Bartlett, but the
shock she had sustained had been too much
for her ; her mind was blank and dull. She
uttered her passing impressions: I never
thought to see them here ; they don't hive
here ? "

'No," said Mrs. Bartlett, glad to foster
this momentary lapse from the dread reality.
* No ; we don't live here, but my father
and mother do. This is their house; weare
come to stay with them."

After that Hannah Dill knew not at all
how many hours or weeks might have
passed, when one day, awaking in a decent
bed, she found that she was cool ; that the
furniture, which had long seemed to whirl
about her, had settled in its place ; that the
swarms of passing strangers, who had appeared
night and day to approach her bed and
gaze at her, were all gone. She slept a good
deal that night, and in the morning awoke
aware of what had occurred, and able to think.

She had a nurse, as she perceived, but
she could not bear to question her. It was
not till Mr. Bartlett, hearing she was sensible,
came to see her, and brought his wife,
that she spoke, sending down the nurse, and
gazing at them with hollow, frightened eyes.

 Is he condemned, sir ? "

She lay long silent when Mr. Bartlett
had told her, by a pitying gesture, that it
was so. At last Mrs. Bartlett said,  You
must think of your dear little boy, Mrs.
Snaith, and try to get better for his sake.
He is very well ; I have seen that he was
well done by."

' Ma'am, I know you have a mother's
heart. Is there no hope for Dill, sir ? Must
he die that death ? "

' He is quite resigned," said Mr. Bartlett,
instead of answering her.

' Oh, my God ! " cried the poor woman,
folding her hands; * have pity on him and
on our innocent child ! "

Yes, your innocent child," said Mrs.
Bartlett. ' In all this bitter misery, Mrs.
Snaith, there is one gleam of comfort, and
that concerns him. Nobody here knows
your husband's name; he has refused to
divulge it. He has shown a father's heart
in that respect."

' It was his duty. Does he know that
I have been so ill? "

Yes."

' Oh, I must go to him ! "

'you cannot yet."

Oh, I might be too late ! "

There are many days yet. You will not
be too late. Your husband has been very
ill himself. He has had an epileptic fit."

There are some things that appear quite
unendurable ; they bear down the soul under
such a weight of misery, that life seems
impossible. And yet they will not kill;
they are not thus to come to their desired
end.

When Hannah Dill and her husband met,
they both looked the mere shadows of then-former
selves. They sat hand in hand in
the condemned cell, and neither spoke. It
seemed a comfort to the wretched prisoner
to have his wife by his side, but he never
had anything to say. Sometimes he was
reading his Bible when she appeared, sometimes
he was kneeling in prayer  always
deeply humble and generally quite calm,
for he was not agitated by any hope; his
doom was fixed.

One day, as she was about to leave him,
he bared his thin arm, and said,  Oh,
Hannah, sometimes I hope "

 ' Hope you may die first ? " she whispered.

'ray."

 I spoke to Mr. Bartlett about that," she
answered. * My poor husband! he says, for
all their suffering, the condemned do not
die. And you are at peace. But oh, that
it might be ! " she broke out, bursting into

tears. Then, trying to calm herself, she
said,  You are a man forgiven of God, as
we both for ever trust; hut you have
always known that at last you deserved to
suffer  and suffer you would."

 Oh that it was over !  oh that it was
done ! " she said, when she got home ; and
she was so wretchedly ill all that night, that
she feared to be laid up again, and unable to
go to him. But just at sunrise, as she had
dropped into an uneasy doze, a flattering
dream came to her ; she thought she saw her
husband standing at the foot of the bed, and
that his eyes were full of a rapturous calm.

While she looked, some noise startled her,
and she woke, mourning over the sweetness
of that short respite. How hard that it should
have been wrested from her ! But there was
a noise again; it was under her window.
Some one called out her name. She started
up. Mr. Bartlett was below. He told her
to dress herself and come down to him.

Oil, how beautiful the sunrise was, when
she came out, how pure and peaceful !

' Your husband is very ill," he whispered
to her ; ' the chaplain has obtained leave for
you to come to him. He had another lit
last night."

Her dream had still dominion over her,
and she looked at the sunrise ; but she
hastened to the prison, and was soon in his
cell.

Two people were there, the doctor and
a warder. They were not sympathetic,
not pitiful, merely attentive to what was
before them. Her husband was speaking;
his voice was perfectly strange to her 
a tremulous, piping voice. ' Yes, they
tempted me ; they gave me the drink, sir.
I was three parts drunk when I did it."

The doctor and the warder parted, to let
her come to the narrow bed. The signs of his
sore struggle during the fit were visible on
his face; and on the bruised arms and disordered

bed, but be was perfectly calm now ;
the sunrise was fair upon bis wasted features.

He spoke again. '' And the mercy of
the most Merciful is over all His works.
I trust in Him that I die forgiven." A
slight convulsive movement passed over ibis
face, and then there was a deep sigh. Sbe
was kneeling beside bim now.

 There," said the doctor, coming forward
with grave indifference, ' I said be would
not last more than the twelve hours from
the time of the seizure. It's half-past six
o'clock."

 Is my poor husband dead, sir ? " asked
the wife.

 Yes, my good woman  dead."

'Mayl "

' You may do nothing at all but leave the
prison," interrupted the doctor, with more
kindness of manner.

' Not bave bis poor body to bury it ? "

"You may do nothing at all but

leave the prison," lie repeated; and she
rose at once, and Mr. Bartlett took her
home again.

A widow, and all that day lying on her
hed, nnahle to lift herself up, and yet lost
in a rapture of thankfulness, blessing God
for her own and her poor husband's sake.

But the shock of all she had gone through
was more than she could bear, and for
several weeks she was so utterly prostrate,
that to rise, and for an hour or two daily
to sit trembling by her fire, was all she
could accomplish. She had still money
left, and there would be more to come to
her in a few weeks, so that she was able
to pay for what she wanted. Her kind
friends, the Bartlett, were gone.

She was quite alone, but, on the whole,
she was happy. Her husband, she believed
was at rest, and forgiven. His real name
had not transpired; she was no longer in
fear, and was free from the corroding care

she had suffered on his account, and seen
him suffer.

What still oppressed her was Miss
de Berenger's will. As soon as she was
able, she must go and seek her children,
and, if possible, induce them to give up the
bequest. She was too weak to write, too
weak to move ; it was not till some time in
the month of November, some weeks after
her husband's death, that, finding how very
little of her money was left, she roused
herself, and selling all she had that she
could possibly spare, set off in the railway
with her child. She had an urgent longing
upon her to see justice done. Her children
could not prosper if they had, however
innocently, brought loss upon the family
which had cherished them.

And yet how little she could with safety
tell them. She pondered over this during
the dreary night's journey in the parliamentary
train, and almost despaired. There

was still nothing but concealment before
her. Her daughters would meet her with
kindly condescension, though she had gone
off from them so suddenly. Yes, and each
of them she hoped  she was sure  would
give her a kiss. But; she had robbed herself
of all claim on them ; even the bond of
faithful service was broken.

VOL. III.

CHAPTEK XIII.

Mes. Jolliffe was a woman of consequence
of much more consequence, in some
respects, than Mr. De Berenger, though
she was generally considered to he a servant,
and he a master. On all great occasions,
Mrs. JolHffe could make her power
felt, and one was approaching.

In fact, the very next day, namely, the
eighteenth of November, was to be the most
important that for many years had dawned
on the De Berenger family. A very large
goose pie was at that moment baking in
honour of it. Cakes, without end, were
ranged on the dressers, to be given away

in the village. There was great rolling of
pastry, stuffing of fowls, clearing of jelly,
stoning of plums, roasting of beef. Mrs.
JoUiffe was making all her subordinates
miserable for fear the oven shouldn't go.
It generally went very well ; there was no
special reason why it should not then. It
never had failed since Master Dick came of
age. A modest festival had been given on
that occasion, and the crust of the pie was
burnt.

Nobody in the kitchen had any peace till
that goose pie was out of the oven, and
was all one clean expanse of gold-coloured
crust.

 And quite a credit to you, ma'am," cried
the two village matrons who were come to
help. Mrs. Jolliffe was pacified for the
moment, but now she began to fret about
the partridges and the custards, 'for, indeed,
a wedding is not a thing that takes place
every day," she remarked.

SARAH DE BEEENGER.

'rand hadn't need," sighed her weary
subordinates.

'' There wasn't as much of a spread when
Mr. Amias was christened as I could have
wished to see," continued Mrs. Jolliffe, who
never forgot anything, " and I remember
as well as can be, how I said to her that
was cook at that time, ' I hope, if the
blessed babe Ives to eat his wedding breakfast,
he'll see finer victuals on the table by
half, and more of them.' "

'you might have said you hoped he
would make a fine bridegroom," observed
one of the attendants.

"But I did not," replied Mrs. Jolhffe,
impressively, " and so I tell you truly. But
we have all heard that marriages are made
in heaven, and so I believe they are  a
picked few of them,  this for one. Never
was anything like the conveniency of it.
Miss Sarah's money going to her own
nephew, the right crest on Miss Amabel's

share of the plate, and all their things
marked ' A. B.' both of them."

' It's very interesting," said the scullery
gui ; and Mrs. JolHffe, finding that she
had no time to pause and be amused when
the success of the breakfast hung yet in
the balance, severely ordered her into the
back kitchen to wash potatoes.

It was long past midnight when Mrs.
JoUiffe, satisfied at last, locked up the house
and crept up to bed. The servants, all extremely
tired, slept heavily and later than
usual.

The bridegroom, as perhaps might have
been expected, was first awake, and rang
for his hot water.

He was in the little room which had been
his from a boy. It led out of his brother's
room, and commanded a view of the church
and the lawn, on which grew two very fine
fir trees.

Amias drew up his blind. Eather a thick

sprinkling of snow lead fallen in the night.
It was still snowing. A dark and rather
misty morning. The two trees stood like
two tall sharp spires, and a tree or shrub of
singular shape appeared between them. It
did not seem to be so thickly covered with
snow as the other shrubs. He looked at it
with interest ; it was singularly like the
figure of a woman crouching down against
the fir tree as if for shelter. A curious
freak of the frost, as he thought it. Yes, like
even to the minute details ; for there, bent
down, might be the head, and there, falling
into regular creases, was what might be the
hood of her cloak. It tuas a woman. He
called his brother out of his room to look at
it. They even thought they saw it move, and
both, hurriedly throwing on their clothes,
ran down. The shape had already attracted
attention below. Felix and Amias had
plenty of help, and the helpless creature,
not stiff, not insensible, but only powerless

to move, was carried into the warm nursery
and laid on a couch. Her attitude, as they
raised her, was easily explained. She was
crouching over a beautiful, rosy child, so
as to shield him from the cold. Her
cloak folded him to her, and he was warm
and sleeping, having leaned against her
shoulder.

Hannah Dill ! She looked worn and wan;
her hair had many streaks of grey in it, and
her hollow eyes told of pain and grief and
trouble. She made no complaint ; her eyes
followed her child, and when she saw that
they were attending to him, giving him
breakfast and warming him, she appeared
to sink away into an exhausted sleep.

It was about eight o'clock, and the family
were not down. It was not to be expected
that at such a time more attention could be
devoted to the poor, uninvited visitor than
was absolutely needful, especially as she
could not talk; but in about an hour she

was able to drink some lot tea. Then lie
seemed to notice that Felix had come in
and was standing near her. Mr. Brown,
the doctor, was also present.

' And you say she spoke when you first
found her under the tree? " he said to
Felix.

Yes ; we raised her up, my brother and
I, and she stood between us."

Jolliffe took the child, and remarked at
the same moment, " She has a widow's
cap on."

Then she said faintly,  My poor husband
is dead. I trust he went to God."

She is coming round," said the doctor.
'' Well, Mrs. Snaith, do you feel better ? "

Hannah Dill looked about her. ' I had
not been there long  there under the tree.
It did not seem long," she said, addressing
Felix.  I wanted so to see them," she
presently added, while the doctor continued
to feel her pulse and regard her attentively.

' Her strength inst have failed just as
she got near the house," he observed, ' and
she sank down. The cold has done the rest.
See how she gazes at the door."

 The young ladies are not dressed yet,
Mrs. Snaith," said Felix, using her old
familiar name. 'you shall see them
shortly. So you were not long under the
tree ? "

No ; they put me out at four o'clock at
the town. I walked on, for my money was
all spent, and my boy was hungry."

And this was the wedding morning.
Neither of the two brothers liked that
Amabel and Delia should begin it with the
sight of their old nurse, and the story of
what she must have suffered.

Amias came in first with Delia, all in
white array as a bridesmaid ; her lovely
face was sweet and pitiful, but she shrank a
little when she saw the hollow-eyed woman
stretched on a couch and motionless, except

for the turning of her eyes. She came, and,
leaning over her, kissed her kindly, and
noticing a sort of rapture that came over
the poor face, said,  Mamsey, dear, you'll he
letter soon."

Mamsey had hold of a fold of tarlatan.
' What does it mean ? " she asked, with
entreating eyes.

 Why, the wedding, Mamsey  the wedding
; that's what it means ! "

*' You to be married, my beauty bright ?
You!"

 Oh no," cried Delia, all dimples and
blushes ;  no. But don't look so frightened,
dear."

'who is it, then?" said Mamsey very
faintly.

AmabeL"

'' Then I'm too late," said Mamsey. '' I
hoped the Lord would let me get here intime.
It can't be helped."

What could she mean ? She spoke so

slowly and seemed so disturbed, that Amias
said, 'And why should it be helped, Mamsey
? Everybody wishes for it."

 Who's the gentleman?" she moaned
out ; '' tel me his name."

* Why, his name is the same as mine,"
answered Amias, smiling down upon her
with joy in his dark eyes.  I am the
gentleman ! "

You, sir  you? "

Yes, I  Mr. Amias de Berenger. You
remember me, surely."

*well, then, it's all right," she murmured.
wonderful goodness of God! I
bless His holy name."

Strangely solemn words ; they seemed to
have little relation to the circumstances ;
and she fell away, after saying them, into a
kind of faint.

'' The bride had better see her before she
goes to church," observed the doctor to
Felix, who had come in again.

'why?" asked Felix.

The doctor looked at him. 'I think it
might be better," he said.

*' She changes very much, surely, sir,"
said Mrs. Jolliffe. *' I don't see that she
seems to rally."

Hannah Dill recovered from her faint and
again gazed towards the door. Delia presently
entered it, with the rosy little unknown
brother in her arms. And after her,
floating onwards, lovely and pensive and
pitiful, came Amabel, in her bridal gown
and floating veil.

'put it back," she said, 'that I may
kiss Mamsey."

Amias put the veil back for her, and she
looked quietly into his eyes. Then she
came on and kissed the prostrate invalid,
and sat down beside her. The mother and
child for several minutes held each other by
the hand. Amabel appeared instinctively to
feel that Mamsey was feeding her heart

and comforting herself with the sight of her.
She sat gently and sweetly beside her to
allow this, hut it cannot be supposed that at
such a time, within half an hour of her marriage
ceremony, she was able to give any
very deep attention to her old nurse.

It was Delia who first spoke; she had a
sudden idea that human faces seldom could
look like Mamsey's long. It must be her
own Httle inexperience, she thought, that
made her feel alarmed, but she yielded to a
sudden impulse ; she would say the kindest
thing in the world, whatever was the
event.

'' Mamsey dear, look at me  look! I've
got the dear, pretty little boy in my arms,"
she said, in a cheerful and comforting voice.
'you will come and Hve here again, won't
you? But if you don't stay, Mamsey  do
you understand ?  I shall always take care
of him."

The dying eyes appeared to thank her ;

they wandered over the three faces with a
wondrous rapture of peace and joy.

' And yet," she presently whispered,
 it's not said, and I cannot say it."

*' Say v/hat, Mamsey ? " asked Delia.

Her eyes fell upon Delia's hand; she saw
the rings. ' You engaged too, my sweetest
sweet ? "

For an answer Delia lifted her hand to
her lips, and kissed the rings she had so
lately begun to wear.

A spasm of anguish passed over the
mother's face ; all the light and joy in it
was gone.

 Do you love him . " she whispered.

Delia murmured, ' Oh yes."

'And I've no time to speak," Mamsey
repeated. ' Miss Sarah's money  Miss
Sarah "

She's wandering ! " exclaimed Amabel.

 Never mind Cousin Sarah's money,
dear," said Delia, caressingly  her lovely

face was all dimples and blushes ; her happiness
was so new to her  look at these
instead. Don't you want to know who gave
them to me?" she whispered. She leaned
down till her cheek almost touched her
mother's shoulder.

'' Who did ? " replied Mamsey.

Delia could but just hear the words.
Mamsey had hold of her ringed hand now.
Delia lifted up her face, and answered
those beseeching eyes. ' Who did? Why,
Dick."

Then the clasp of that cold hand was
relaxed, and there came back again a strange
rapture of peace. Delia watched it and
wondered, till some one came to the door
and called the girls away. They gave each
a kindly look to their old nurse, and passed
out of the room, Delia still having the baby
boy in her arms.

They all passed out of that room  indeed,
at the same moment ; the children to the lot

which had been won for them, the mother
to her rest.

If it was failure so to live and so to die,
having given up all things, even her own
children  to live not thanked, and to die
not known  yet still it was the failure she
had chosen ; and there are some who, reflecting
on such a life, would say, 'If that
be failure, let me so fail here, in the cottage,
won't you, just as you used to do ? "

