CHAPTER I.

David Severest was the only son of a
widowed mother, who, however, was not
altogether to be pitied on account of
her widowhood. Colonel Everest had
certainly done his best to make his
decease bearable to his wife, by making
her life spent with him as unbearable as
debt, indifference, and drinking could
make it. He had not been a good
husband, but nevertheless she made him
an excellent widow, and did her duty by
his memory as ably as she had exceeded

VOL. I. 1

her duty in her endeavours to lecture him
into a letter state of behaviour.

The Colonel had not taken kindly to
lecturing  perhaps few husbands do  and
he had given his wife little opportunity
for the use of her powers in that direction,
until either his ill fate or his good providence
laid him low with a broken arm,
and then it is to be feared that Mrs.
Everest made up for lost opportunities,
and disburdened her mind of the accumulated
lectures of years. Whether the
lectures hastened the mending of the
broken bone or not, the Colonel was soon
off to the war again, no whit improved in
manners or morals either; and his wife
was left with her little five-year-old son
to brood over her words herself, if she so
choose, for it was certain the Colonel
would not.

The next news of him was in that
column of the Times that was so eagerly
read in those Crimean War days by English

wives and mothers. Colonel Everest was
dead, and his wife was a nearly penniless
widow of six and twenty.

She had one near relation in the world,
and only one, and that was a brother,
many years older than herself. There had
been a quarrel between Colonel Everest
and him with regard to money matters,
and she had taken her lover's part, and
married him in spite of brotherly counsel.

The Reverend Theophilus Burney was
as ignorant of women as a man born of
woman can be, but he was not nearly so
much offended at his counsel being disregarded
as he was grieved for his sister's
fate. After the marriage he made an
offer of reconciliation, but the new bride
was too proud to let even his eyes see her
humiliation, and she refused his offer
coldly, whereupon it had not been
renewed ; for Theophilus, though a
clergyman, and a good man, was but
human, and the refusal angered him.

She thought of this refusal as she sat
with the open Times before her in her
dismal lodging in London (the Colonel
had not been lavish with regard to money
matters). She told herself with a little
fierce gesture that she would never go
back to be pitied and condoled with, and
even as she said it she thought with a sigh
of the comfortable Devonshire rectory.

Perhaps if time had been given her she
would have gone back, with the words of
the prodigal not on her lips, but in her
heart ; but time was not given her. The
very day after the news of her husband's
death was in the Times, a well-remembered
footstep made a sound of stumbling
on the steep London stairs, and Mrs.
Everest was in her brother's arms before
she well knew he was in the room.

She cried when he kissed her, cried as
she had not done even when the bad news
first came to her, and every tear smote
her brother's heart. He begged and

implored her to forgive him, as if, indeed,
he had been the transgressor. So keenly
did her grief smite him that he believed
he was, and ever after alluded to the
break in their intercourse with the
sincerest shame. He was overjoyed when
she consented to go back with horn, as
after some little demur she did ; and he
made a solemn promise that the boy,
young David, should be to him as his own
son, and he would be as a father to him.

When the mother cried again at this,
Theophilus was remorseful and penitent,
fearing he had been arrogant and rough
with a bereaved woman's holiest feelings.
He apologised, and said such things of
the departed Colonel as his tender heart
suggested, and in course of time even
came to believe them, and echoed his
sister's sentiments as to the worth of
the dear departed.

But the world is censorious, and sadly
suspicious ; not all the mourning, the

cambric and crape, displayed by the widow
really took anybody in except her unsuspicious
brother. Even little David
looked oddly at his mother when he
heard her "mention her dearest husband.
David was very inconvenient to the
widow for the first few months of her
new life at the Rectory.

But memory at five years old is not
always very retentive. A donkey, a
puppy, a poultry-yard, trees and fields
soon drove inopportune reminiscences
from David's mind. He roamed about
the leafy lanes, and through the fields, and
passed through the usual hair-breadth
escapes that seem necessary to the career
of a small boy.

He went to school at rather a late age.
This w r as not because of his mother's
fears and scruples, for she was not much
troubled by them, but because his uncle
could not bear to give up teaching him
Latin and Greek. Mr. Burney was a

scholar, a Fellow of his college, and
a more than ordinary lover of ancient
learning. Perhaps it would be more
correct to say mediaeval learning, for,
though a good classical scholar, his real
interest lay in the study of comparative
liturgiology  a subject less known, and
perhaps less interesting to the world at
large than any other.

Possibly it w 7 ould be wrong to say that
the study of liturgies was the object of
Mr. Burney's life ; he would certainly
have denied it if any one had asked him
the question. But then he would have
found a difficulty in answering any such
question at all : life had glided along
with him in so serene and gentle a
manner that he had never yet paused to
review it. He had, perhaps, a hazy idea
of some day really facing the matter, and
resolving what he would do with himself ;
but he passed into white-haired old age
before that day ever came, and he had

almost forgotten that such a thing as
the possibility of a career had ever
existed.

He was very happy in having the boy
to teach. Had not David and his mother
come to live at the Eectory, Mr. Burney
might, in the course of the next twenty
years or so, have considered the question
of getting married, and so providing
himself with a companion. Their presence
saved him from the exertion of
thinking of such a thing, and he never
even contemplated the possibility. He
would have liked to have kept the boy at
home altogether and poured all the secret
stores of his learning into the lad's
attentive ears, but his mother interfered.

It was Mrs. Everest's darling wish that
her son should follow in the footsteps of
his father  at least, that was what she
said, and part of it was true, for she really
did wish him to go into the army. So
David was sent to school, and his uncle

made laborious notes out of all the books
he read, to impart them to his favourite in
the holidays.

It is not too much to say that the
uncle looked forward to David's holidays
fully as much as that young scholar himself
did. In point of fact, he was the
most excited of the two when the lad's
long lanky form appeared in the Eectory
gateway. David took his coming home
very quietly  was rather reticent, indeed,
about his school-days in a manner that
somewhat surprised his relations, until
the half-yearly report arrived, and that
explained matters a little.

The rector was less distressed by it
than Mrs. Everest was. Acts of lawlessness
and outbreak she could have forgiven ;
a love of play would have pleased her as
well as a love of books ; if the lad had
neglected his studies for cricket or
boating, she would have embraced him.
David's indifference to sports had always

been a grief to her. But the report made
mention of one sin only, and that the
crying, most inexcusable sin to Mrs.
Everest in all the world  laziness.
David, when questioned, owned to it
quite naturally. He had hated getting
up in the mornings, doing lessons before
breakfast, working all the day, going
for walks, drilling, and the enforced
games ; he disliked having to do things
when he was told, and at stated times ;
and in the most unblushing manner confessed
to having eluded such unpleasantness
by the best means in his power.

The rector shook his head and looked
sorrowfully at his favourite, and for the
sake of discipline he had better have
directed his eyes somewhere else, for the
sight of the lad's long desired face caused
a triumphant smile to break out over his
own, and for the life of him he could not
keep down a little chuckle of delight.

Mrs. Everest heard it, of course, and

turned upon him in the full magnificence
of her outraged propriety and maternal
displeasure, and  it is a sad thing to
say of a beneficed clergyman  the rector
turned and fled, or, more correctly speaking,
shambled into his study, and gently
fastened the door behind him.

Mrs. Everest, left alone with her prodigal,
questioned him sternly, the more
sternly because she detected him in a
partially developed movement to follow
in the footsteps of his departing uncle.
Perhaps if she had been wiser she would
have let him go ; bat what energetic
woman ever lost an opportunity of expending
some of her superfluous energy
upon an idle man, or even boy? Mrs.
Everest's energy having had nothing
better than her brother and the parish to
expend itself upon lately  two notoriously
unresponsive objects  had been turned
back upon herself in a very dangerous
manner. Her piety, which was the most

usual form for it to take, had become a
thing most awful to her brother and the
household. David's return and his misdemeanours
was a perfect godsend to
them all, except to David himself.

He bore it very well, though; too well.
In fact, he was so hopelessly unconcerned
about the whole matter, his mother's
lecture included, that she was goaded
into giving him a full half-hour extra ;
but not even that produced any visible
effect upon him. He answered all her
questions, and acknowledged all his faults,
and nodded a cheerful acquiescence to
all the probable calamities and fearful
consequences she predicted for him in
his earthly career, and seemed in no way
dismally affected by the picture of a
fearful hereafter that would in all likelihood
follow upon a wasted and misspent
manhood. Not a line lengthened in his
round face, not a tear dimmed his blue
eyes, as his mother passed from one dread

vision to another ; not a sign escaped
him of any impatience, save now and
then a half-wistful glance at the closed
study door across the hall. He was
quite cheerful up to the end, when his
mother, driven to the extremity of rage
and despair, herself burst into a flood
of tears such as she had been desirous
of raising in him.

Don't cry, mother," he said, putting
his arm about her neck and kissing her.
I'm all right ; there's nothing the
matter to make you cry."

You are a hardened, wicked, ungrateful
boy ! " cried Mrs. Everest, in
indignation. " You have no fear of God
or man before your eyes. Don't come
near me ! " and the little lady swept past
him in a fury, and up the stairs into her
own room.

The breakfast-room had been the scene
of this display, for the post had arrived
in the middle of the meal. David glanced

after his mother as she passed him in her
anger, and made a step as if to follow her,
but the imperious little gesture of her
hand and head stopped him, and left him
standing beside the breakfast-table. In a
meditative manner he laid his hand upon
a jam-pot; the spoon was beside it.
David did not inconveniently hurry himself,
but in a little while an empty pot
stood where a full one had been ; and
David, with a sigh of content, put a handful
of radishes in his pocket, and turned
leisurely towards the study door.

Ah, my boy!" said the rector, in a
cheerful voice, as David came into the
study; then, remembering that the lad
was in disgrace, he shook his head and
ejaculated, "Ah, dear, dear, dear!" in a
manner intended, doubtless, to be very
sorrowful, but that in reality was brimful
of delight and pride.

The boy nodded, but did not speak  his
mouth was full, though his heart was not

bat a gleam of fun came into his eyes,
and, sad indeed to relate, this young
sinner shut one of them, and looked in a
knowing manner upon his aged relative
with the other.

The boy's coolness after the trying
interview to which his uncle knew he had
been subjected for the last hour and a
half, was so irresistibly delightful to the
old man that he laughed outright. In
his soul he admired and envied the lad
who could wink and munch radishes
with perfect absence of all emotion after
a scene, the like of which would have
made him ill and low-spirited for days.
He laughed and rubbed his hands ; but
his wavering sense of duty came back
to him, and he shook his head longer
than before, and said as gravely as he
could 

David, David, I did not expect this
of you."

You have got some new books," was

David's answer after  shall we say it ?  a
temporary residence of his tongue in one
of his rosy cheeks ; " let's have a look
at them ! "

Ah ! ha ! you haven't forgotten the
old favourites, I dare say, Davie. Yes, I
have a few notes here that will interest
you, and a new hook or two. Yes, yes ;
we have not been quite idle while you
have been away, Master Davie, What do
you say to this for a manuscript copy of
the Syriac St. Mark? Ha, ha, ha! "

Jolly ! " was David's somewhat inappropriate
answer in a manner in strong
contrast to his former easy indifference,
and, to his uncle's astonishment, the lad
seized the book and, in a stumbling,
blundering manner, but with a certain
knowledge of his subject, read the first
few lines.

The old man jumped up in his delight,
and almost knocked over the boy in his
joyful embrace.

Davie, Davie, why this explains the
report ! Oh, my dear lad, why didn't
you say at once you had been learning
Syriac ? "

Oh, I haven't been learning it regularly,"
said David, rather sheepishly, but
with a grin of pleasure at the old man's
delighted surprise. " I took your old
Syriac grammar with me, and looked at
it at odd times, that's all."

That's all ! " cried the rector, " that's
all ! My dear lad, how happy you have
made me ! Here have I been puzzling
my old brains over this manuscript, and
not getting ahead very much with it after
all, and now we can work together.
Only "  and here he stopped and looked
doubtfully at his nephew  " my dear boy,
it would have been so much better for
you to have begun with Hebrew, which
would have helped you so well in Syriac
afterwards. Dear, dear! I wish you had
mentioned it to me."

VOL. I. -

But there are no liturgies in Hebrew,"
objected David ; " and I thought it would
be so useful to get at the Monophysite
ones in the original."

Well, there are the Jewish liturgies,
after all," said Mr. Burney, thoughtfully;
but even if you do not regard those, it
would not be wasted, for you might have
helped me with my pet idea of the connection
between the Breviary offices and
the old Temple services. We might have
read the Treatise Berachoth together."

"All right," said David ; " I'll go for
Hebrew next half. I say, uncle, how
jolly easy this manuscript is to make out !
What fun we'll have ! "

Mr. Burney made no reply, unless a low
laugh and a rub of the hands might be
considered as such. He was too pleased
and proud to speak. He had passed one
of the most miserable hours of his life
in the study after breakfast, while the
lecture was being administered to David.

He had longed to be with the lad and
to comfort and uphold him in the ordeal,
but he knew from past experience that
his presence was worse than useless
on such occasions, and only added fuel
to his sister's flame. Then his own
disappointment about the boy had been
very keen. He had thought so highly
of his abilities and had taken such pains
with his education, that he had fully expected
to see him come back staggering
under a load of prizes. He had spent
whole days in dreaming of David's fame
as a great scholar, and the report seemed
to have dashed all his hopes to the
ground. His extravagant joy at David's
very moderate acquaintance with Syriac
was evidently the result of the sudden
revival of all his hopes and dreams; he
scarcely knew how to contain himself
at finding his idol even more worshipful
than before.

They were sitting together, huddled

up over the precious manuscript, eagerly
deciphering it, and oblivious of all the
world beside, when the study door opened,
and Mrs. Everest came in.

She had dried her tears and composed
her manner, but the red lids gave a fierce
look to her keen eyes, and the lines about
her mouth and forehead were fixed with
a grim determination.

Her brother trembled when he looked
up and caught sight of her face ; then,
remembering the change that had taken
place in his own mind about David, proceeded
eagerly to ease her troubled spirit.

My dear Charlotte," he began, " you
will be delighted to hear that the report
we  I mean, we are all mistaken, my
dear ; we ' '

Of course," said Mrs. Everest, bitterly,
I always am mistaken about David; I
always have been. Of course, I have
never understood my son."

Oh, my dear Charlotte, you will be

as delighted and surprised as I was.
What do you think David has been
learning ? "

Not his lessons," interposed his
mother, sternly. " Hebrew, or some
fantastical nonsense, I dare say ; but not
his lessons."

Well, but, Charlotte, really a very
good guess of yours. Not Hebrew  I may
say in one w T ay I wish he had ; it would
have been very useful  but what do you
say, my dear, to Syriac. Keally, considering
the time he has been at it, his knowledge
of it is wonderful, quite wonderful; "
and Mr. Burney laid a loving arm on his
nephew's shoulder, and glanced from him
to his mother as who should say, " I
won't praise him before his face, but he
is a lad to be proud of."

Syriac!" exclaimed Mrs. Everest,
and the tone of her voice made Mr.
Burney start, there was so much compressed
scorn in it. " And, pray, can you

IX LONDON TOWN.

tell me what is the use of his learning
Syriac ? "

Use ? Oh, immense use, my dear. He
can help me to read this manuscript, which
has been a dreadful puzzle to me ; the
subject of Syriac liturgies has yet "

Syriac liturgies ! Theophilus, I am
astonished at you. And, pray, was David
sent to school to study Syriac liturgies ?"

"Why, no, Charlotte; no, no, perhaps
not," replied Mr. Burney, feebly. He
was obliged to answer, though he delayed
it as long as he could, for she fixed her
eyes upon him until he did so, and he
felt himself growing hot and cold under
her gaze. " Why, no, perhaps not ;
but "

"But he was sent to learn Greek and
Latin, I suppose, and that he has not
done. Theophilus, you are encouraging
that boy in vice and idleness, and ridiculous
foolishness." Mr. Burney became
perfectly limp, and looked appealingly at

David. " And if you encourage him in
this absurd manner, he will be fit neither
for this world nor the next. David, why
did you not attend to your classical
studies ? "

Oh, well, I did," said David, slowly;
I did heaps of Latin, but somehow they
were always down upon me for it. I
don't think they knew much about
Latin."

"David, how dare you speak in that
manner ? ' '

Well, they didn't, mother. Why, look
here, Mr. Loss  that's the classical
master, you know dropped down upon
me for using liber are with ah, only the
other day, and I told him he had better
read the Lord's Prayer, and he didn't
seem to like it."

"You impertinent boy " began Mrs.

Everest, when her brother interposed.

But, Davie, my dear lad, Mr. Loss
w T as quite right in saying that it was not

usual in good Latin  at least, in good
classical Latin, though even Cicero certainly
does use it once or twice. I
imagine that the ab, or rather a in the
Lord's Prayer, as in other places in the
Vulgate, is due to the influence of the
original Greek euro, which is, as you
know, the kindred word."

Theophilus, you are only encouraging
him'

My dear, I fear I have been to blame
in drawing his attention so frequently to
mediaeval Latin instead of the classics."

I think the classics are awfully slow,"
said David, before his mother could speak
again. " Virgil isn't to be compared to
Bernard of Morlaix. And there w T as
another thing, the stupid verses one had
to write. They dropped down upon me
again when they gave us hexameter on
the death of Caesar, and I sent up twenty
rhyming dactylic ones in Bernard's style."

"Leonine!" cried old Mr. Burney,

his whole face lighting up with delight ;
Leonine ! Why, my dear lad, they are
about as difficult as any Latin metre can
be ! To think," he added, with a chuckle,
of the lad's choosing leonine. You
haven't got them about you, have you ? "
he asked anxiously.

Really, Theophilus, this is disgraceful,"
said Mrs. Everest. " You are
deliberately encouraging him. What can
you expect of a boy who goes and writes

leonine when he is told to write

What are the other things called ? "

These leonine are hexameter," said
David, as he pulled a piece of paper out
of a pocket-book and gave it to his uncle.
There, uncle, there they are."

Theophilus, do I understand you are
going to read them?" demanded his
sister, wrathfully ; but they did not pay
any attention to her, for they were deep
in the verses.

Good, good," muttered Mr. Burney,

very good, Davie ; " and he was proceeding
to discuss the verses, when Mrs.
Everest, unable to contain herself any-longer,
snatched the offending paper from
his hand, and, declaring that she did not
know which of them was the worst, and
she would soon put a stop to that state of
things, left the room in a towering rage.

They looked after her as she went.

They were very good verses," said
the uncle, thoughtfully; " hut surely,
Davie, there was a false quantity in the
fourth line."

David went back to school, after his holidays
were over, considerably strengthened
in his Syriac, and with a glimmering of
the rudiments of Hebrew in his mind.
He had enjoyed his holidays very much,
far more than his mother had done. It
is needless to say she did her best to keep
him out of his uncle's study; she was
always wanting him to drive with her, or
walk with her, or read to her, or do something
for her that involved absence from
her brother. David submitted patiently
to it for a few days, but then he began to
have long absences from the house, and
was difficult to find. His mother spent

half her time hunting for him, but she
never found him, for she never looked in
the hay-loft, where the lad lay comfortably
enough, w T with his books beside him.
His uncle knew where to find him, and
many a pleasant hour did the two culprits
spend together among the hay.

David was a trying son for a mother
whose ideal of a gentlemanly education
consisted chiefly of the study of classics
and field sports. David would have none
of these things ; he would not even play
cricket with the sons of the neighbouring
gentry, but preferred to ramble about the
country in long solitary walks, or to lie
about in the fields with a book in his
hand. He was not morose or unsociable,
as his habits seemed to imply. On the
contrary, he preserved an unvarying
cheerfulness of face and speech that
nothing could destroy  lectures, homilies,
upbraiding, nothing moved him ; he was
as serene and happy under them as he

would have been under a shower of
praises and caresses, perhaps more so.

You don't seem to care whether you
are praised or blamed," she said to him
with bitterness one morning, when she
had been trying her utmost to rouse in
him what she called " a proper ambition."

Why, no, mother," he answered, "I
don't know that I do. Why should I ? "

You are a wicked, graceless boy,"
she replied, her anger getting the better
of her prudence. " I should like to know
what you mean to do with yourself."

I should like to do nothing," he said
gently; " but I suppose I shall have to
find something to do when I am older. I
would rather lie in the fields and eat
apples than anything else."

Have you no ambition ? no desire to
be great and useful in your generation ?
Oh, David, you cannot mean that you
have no sense of duty ? "

Is it my duty to be great?" he

asked. "I hope not, I am sure. It
would be a great bore."

There was nothing to be done with
him but to send him back to school.
Mrs. Everest made the going back as
humiliating for him as she could by
making him the bearer of a long letter to
the head-master, in which his faults were
all set down, with a few extra ones of her
own imagining, combined with a request
that the counsels of the wise and the rod
of correction might not be spared to her
erring son.

It is not to be supposed that David
relished either a flogging or a lecture
more than other boys, but he seemed to
have a wonderful stock of cheerful
patience in his system. Possibly the
contemplation of his uncle had done
much to bring this about. Mr. Burney
had a hard time at his sister's hands 
all the harder because he knew that she
did what she did from a real sense of duty

and a sincere desire to benefit him. But
Mr. Burney suffered keenly, and David
from his youth up had seen it, and had
arrived at the philosophical conclusion
that it was better to make the best of
things than the worst of them, and that
after all it did not very much matter.

David's imperturbability had raised a
terrible havoc in Broodleigh Rectory, for it
drove his mother into a frenzy, and she
in turn worked it off upon the household.
Mrs. Everest was the important person in
the household, Mr. Burney a mere sufferer.
Mrs. Everest was not satisfied with ruling
her brother's domestic matters ; she also
managed his parish for him, and would, if
she could, have ordered the ways of all
men in it. She vehemently opposed
everything that was not of her bringing
about. She would turn away a servant
who had become engaged to a young
man without asking her advice, and would
even endeavour to regulate the farmers'

supply of cider to the haymakers. There
was nothing she w 7 ould not interfere with,
and so of course, when the squire of the
parish died, Mrs. Everest was in the house
at the time, and ordered the funeral
feast.

The squire had lately lost his wife, and
many said that grief for her loss had
hastened his own end. Mr. Burney had,
in his innocence, ventured upon this as a
safe remark to make to his sister, and
had been considerably astonished by the
contempt with which it was received, and
the information that the squire was far
too sensible a man to worry himself into
his grave for the sake of a silly, insignificant
woman like the late Mrs. Betterton.
Mr. Burney was not a sufficiently keen
observer of human nature to understand
what his sister meant, or rather wished to
hide ; but the squire's housekeeper, after
being, as she expressed it, " worried to
death about the linen list and the stores "

by the officious little lady, had given asher
opinion " that poor dear master
wasn't the fool that some would think, to
choose the grave instead of Mrs. Everest."

However, the squire was gone, and his
wife was gone, and all they had left
behind them was the estate, some three
thousand a year, and one little girl to
inherit it all.

The question of what was to be done
with the little girl was solved on the
reading of the squire's will. By that Mr.
Burney and a distant cousin of Mr. Bet-merton's
were left as executors and
guardians of the child and property, with
the request that she should reside with
one of them.

The cousin, being a bachelor and a man
about town, was extremely anxious that
the young lady should reside with Mr.
Burney, and the rector being by no means
averse to, and his sister being very much
in favour of the plan, it was arranged

VOL. I. 3

easily enough, and Fanny Betterton
became an inmate of Broodleigh Rectory.

All this happened during David's
second term at school, so when he came
home for his next holidays he found
Fanny occupying the place of daughter to
his mother.

For some reason best known to herself,
Mrs. Everest was very gracious to her
son, and more than gracious, even
motherly to the orphan. She did not
even allude to his liturgical and linguistic
studies, but in some inexplicable manner
David found that he had very little time to
bestow upon these pursuits. She did not
persecute him, and worry him, and harass
him as she had done in the last holidays,
yet he had even less time to himself.

It not being David's habit to vex his
soul with inquiries into the springs of
human action, he soon resigned himself to
his circumstances, and submitted with a
good grace to be driven about by his

mother, and sent out to walk with
Fanny.

David, being only fourteen at the time,
was not sufficiently grateful for the blessing
of female companionship that was
thus liberally bestowed upon him ; he
ought to have been a few years older to
have thoroughly enjoyed a long ramble in
quiet country lanes with a pretty girl and
an heiress. Nothing but his inherent good
nature, and a kindly feeling towards one
so lately bereaved, kept him from grumbling
a good deal. As it was, he could not
restrain his feelings while with his uncle.

What do girls want to tramp up and
down a lot of muddy lanes for ? It can't be
any fun to them, what do they do it for ? "

Mr. Burney only shook his head. He
never got beyond that in delineating
female character; it was an awful and
inscrutable mystery to him, and he preferred
to let it remain so.

There was a great deal of church-going

in Broodleigh parish, or more correctly
speaking, Eectory, for nobody ever went to
church on week-days, except the Rectory
family, and the old woman who rang the
bell; but Mr. Burney had been in his
youth a fervent admirer of Keble, Pusey,
and other lights of the English Church
of that time, and had instituted a daily
service in Broodleigh immediately on his
entering upon the living, and it is conjectured
that it never occurred to him
to take it away again. "Without being a
Ritualist for Ritualism, properly speaking,
had not developed in his time  he kept
up a very careful ritual of his own, which
consisted of slight but to him very important
ceremonies, of which the parish
had never yet discovered the existence.

David had been a member of the choir
ever since his coming to Broodleigh, and
of late years had performed the office
of " server " at the celebrations of the
Sacrament, and knew the mysteries of

the " High " version of the English ritual
to a hair's breadth. His uncle's studies
had interested him from an early age, and
he was never happier than when trying to
work out some much disputed point of
early rite.

Yet with all these tastes and habits
David was not a religious boy. He seemed,
so his mother said, to be absolutely without
the sentiment of reverence ; not that
he talked exactly irreverently, and certainly
not blasphemously or profanely, but
to him the Christian mysteries were much
on a level with the early Egyptian ones,
and produced no more devotion in him
than those did.

"You have destroyed the boy's soul
with your wicked, irreverent inquiries,"
Mrs. Everest would complain to her
brother. "It is perfectly awful to think of
drawing a young boy into those artifices
raised by Satan to destroy our souls."

My dear Charlotte, there can be

nothing dangerous in ancient Christian
rites."

Are they not 'Roman, Theophilus ?
How can you say they are not dangerous ?
It is just what they are  crafty, insidious,
soul-destroying. Compiled by Jesuits, I
have no doubt."

My dear, Jesuits were not instituted

until "

Oh yes, of course I know nothing
about the matter. I only know that
David has no more sense of religion in
him than a young Hottentot has."

Charlotte, I think you are mistaken.
David is as interested in religious matters
as it is possible for a boy to be  indeed,
much more so than most boys."

In religious matters, yes ; that is what
I complain of. He has no religious feeling
whatever. I do believe he considers
the Papists are just as good as we are."

They have an infinitely more interesting
service-book," said David, without

looking up from the book he was reading.


There, Theophilus ! do you hear that?
A more interesting sendee-book.' That
is just the way young souls are ensnared ;
and you encourage him, positively encourage
him, in his blasphemy and irreligion.
But there, 1 know what all you
Oxford men are," etc.

When it came to this, Mr. Burney
bowed his head before the storm and
hurried away. He had long ago given up
all attempt at arguing the merits of the
question with his sister. It was one of
the sorest points in her life that she could
not bring him to her way of thinking in
religious matters, and force him to abjure
the Tract arian movement and all its ways.

After an encounter, or rather an attack,
of this sort, Mrs. Everest's piety was a
very oppressive thing to all men. She
fell into a habit of sitting with an open
Bible in her lap, and a Concordance by

her side, to which she would refer in
such an intensely interested manner, that
the least observation would have to be
repeated several times before she could
hear it. In the evenings she would study
a volume of sermons with great assiduity,
and insist on reading aloud select passages
in a grieved and pathetic voice, as though
she had been personally insulted, but was
too good to take any notice of the affront.
The slightest allusion made by anybody
else to church or religious matters would
be instantly checked as profane. When
the attack was very severe, she would
even hold a private Bible-reading in the
breakfast-room for the female servants in
the afternoon, and would gather the
members of the household about her for
hymn singing before prayers in the
evening.

As Mrs. Everest made it a point never
to be pleased with anything or anybody
during one of these visitations, and considered

any kind of cheerfulness as a
personal affront, there was a good deal of
consternation whenever the beginning of
one of these dispensations was visible.

At about the height of an unusually
prolonged attack of this sort, which
occurred when David was sixteen, she
announced her wish to her son that he
should become a clergyman.

I have long ago given up all hope of
your following in the footsteps of your
dear father, " she said pathetically.
After being blessed by such a husband, it
is doubtless for my good that a rebellious
son has been accorded to me. I might
have been lifted up above other women

if But it is no use talking of it,

David. I know that my wishes have
never had the slightest effect upon you
from the time you came under my
brother's influence, and I have never
complained. It is natural that a widowed
and sorrowing mother cannot have much

influence over a headstrong youth, so I
make no complaint and urge no wish ; but
I suppose it is quite a settled thing
between you both that you go into the
Church  and really it seems to me that it
is about the only thing you are fitted
for."

Well, I hardly know, mother," said
David, a little uneasily. He had no wish
to discuss his future prospects with his
mother in her present state. " There is
time enough yet to think of it, is there
not ? "

That is always the way with you
young people. ' Time enough,' and in a
few days you may be in your grave."

Well, in that case it isn't worth
while to decide upon any other career forme,
is it, mother?" he answered good-humouredly.


David, David ! how can you speak
w T with such levity ? How often have I
begged and implored you to think really

seriously of your situation  to rouse
yourself to some proper ambition, and
endeavour to lead a useful and godly life ?
You are getting a man now, David ; you
must think of what you are going to do.
Neither your uncle's nor my means will
admit of your going to college "  David
w T iced : he knew his mother had not a
penny but what came to her from her
pension, and his uncle's living was only
three hundred and fifty pounds a year 
so that is quite out of the question  in
fact, never has been in it."

David put his hands in his pockets and
leaned against the mantelpiece. From
his face no one w r ould have known that
the conversation was of any moment to
him, but in reality it put a stop to all the
plans he had ever formed for himself;
they were not many, it is true, but such
as they were they had been very pleasant
to him.

Well, you do not say anything," she

said rather snappishly, as she waited for
his answer.

I have nothing to say," he replied.

Nothing to say as to how you must
manage to get ordained somehow? "

I shall not he a clergyman. I will
not go into orders by the back door.
Uncle Theoo would not wish it ; you would
not yourself," he added, turning round
and facing her.

This, in Mrs. Everest's ordinary state,
was quite true ; it was only when suffering
from an attack of nervous religion
that she ever even contemplated her son's
doing anything of the kind. His direct
answer had the effect of bringing her
rather more into her usual frame of mind,
but she nevertheless replied 

"It is a blessed life, and the mere

question of a degree of man's giving "

w T hen David interrupted her with 

We need not talk of that, mother ;
it is quite out of the question. Even if I

could go to college, I should not wish to
be a clergyman ; it is not a life I care
about."

Neither, in truth, did Mrs. Everest care
about it for her son ; but she only said 

"I am scarcely surprised, David, that
your studies have unfitted you for entering
into the ministry of the Church of
England. Doubtless you will prefer the
1 more interesting service ' of the Romish
Church. To see my son a Papist will
indeed bring down my grey hairs with
sorrow to the grave ; " and Mrs. Everest
put her handkerchief to her eyes.

David turned to leave the room, feeling
that he had had quite enough of the
present conversation.

I shall never desert my uncle's faith,"
he said, at the door ; and then he went
out, and away into the woods.

David heard no more of his " going into
the Church," as his mother expressed it,
in direct defiance of her brother's expostulation


"But, my dear Charlotte, the boy has
been in the Church ever since his baptism,
and it is therefore obviously impossible
fur him to re-enter it. The question of
his taking holy orders is quite another
thing."

Oh, fiddle ! " said Mrs. Everest, contemptuously,
and there the matter ended.

In the next holiday after this conversation,
David unexpectedly introduced
a companion into Broodleigh Rectory.

This was a shy, awkward lad of about
eighteen, with a nervous impediment in
his speech and a timid, uncertain air
about him, as if he were in a perpetual
state of embarrassment to find that he
existed. He did not seem at all the sort
of boy for David to fraternize with, still
less to make a friend of, for he was neither
clever nor well-read, and did not attempt
to show the smallest interest in David's
pursuits, except a kind of admiring
wonder at all he did or said.

I cannot understand your making a
friend of that shy, stupid little creature,"
said Mrs. Everest to her son, after she
had relieved her mind upon the subject
of his bringing this lad unannounced and
unasked to the Rectory.

Well, I don't know that I have made
a friend of him," answered David, thoughtfully
; " it never occurred to me to do so.
But, you see, he has no home, only an
uncle who pays for his schooling ; and he

is going into the Civil Service, and there
being an interlude of a month between
his appointment and now, and as he had
no place to go to unless he stayed on at
school, why, I thought he had better come
back with me."

Really, David, you are too provoking.
What are we to do with him here, and
dear Fanny in the house, too ? "

Oh, he will be all right," said David,
coolly ; " he and I can go about together.
He won't be in yours or Fanny's way,
and it will be much nicer for him than
being at that dismal school. You see,
he has no friends anywhere ; his uncle is
a surly old miser."

"Is the uncle wealthy, a man of position,
David?"

Well, no, I believe not ; he is a
timber merchant. Fowler thinks his
trade is very bad, and that he is going to
smash pretty soon. If so it is lucky for
Fowler that we have got him here."

Well, really, David," said Mrs.
Everest, rising and going out of the room
in her indignation, " I call it a very
pretty thing indeed, that you can't find a
better companion to associate with thana
bankrupt tradesman's nephew. You
have not even the sense to choose your
friends properly. You are no better thana
baby ! "

But he isn't my friend particularly,"
said David, as his mother banged the
door after her.

He was rather surprised at the temper
she showed about the affair, but soon
settled in his mind that it was only a
little idiosyncrasy peculiar to women and
mothers, and went in search of the unconscious
object of maternal wrath.

Master Fowler was certainly a rather
awkward guest. His natural nervousness
was much increased by Mrs. Everest's
sepulchral manner, which she put on
exclusively for his and David's benefit.

VOL. I. 4

His stammering under this evidence of
her displeasure was a thing at once so
awful and so complicated that it covered
everybody in the room with confusion
whenever he essayed to open his mouth 
everybody, that is, except David, who
would calmly go on with his breakfast or
dinner as if nothing was happening.

This unfortunate defect of speech was
a great trial to Mrs. Everest. She began
by trying to help him over his worst
places and to do his talking for him, but
as she never hit upon what the poor lad
wanted to say, that plan was a failure.
She could not wait patiently upon him
as David did, so she gradually fell into
treating him as a deaf and dumb person,
and conveyed to him by signs her desire
of knowing if he wished for any more
tea, etc. ; and on these terms they got on
better than might have been expected.

However, he went to London at the
end of a month, and soon afterwards

David went back to school, and in course
of time rose to be the head of that
society.

It is to be feared that he set but an
exceedingly indifferent example to the
lads below him. He was always late, and
alway 7 s, the masters said, lazy ; but that
his uncle refused to believe. Though his
school was a private one, the head boy
was supposed to be a sort of watch-dog of
the masters, as far as looking after the
other boys were concerned. David never
same up to this standard of perfection,
consequently was idolized by the boys, for
he never took any notice of them, and
was considered by the " Principal " as the
worst head boy he ever possessed.

David was not so sorry to leave school,
as some boys are said to be. He frankly
expressed his hatred of the place from
first to last. Even his uncle could not
but admit that as a schoolboy David was
ft decided failure, and, but for his mother's





Insistence, would have taken him away
after the first year. She, good lady, was
determined by hook or by crook to make
her boy the boy she wished him to be.
She was angry when her brother pointed
out to her the lad's cleverness in his own
branches of learning. She only wished
him to learn what " other gentlemen
learn." Even his steadiness and gravity
angered her ; she would sooner have seen
him sow his wild oats than do no
husbandry at all. She wanted her son
really to be what she had believed her
husband to have been when she married
him, and, like many mothers, she treated
her son as a sort of jelly that could be
run into her own mould by a judicious
amount of squeezing.

So David was kept at school until he
was a great lanky lad of eighteen, with
legs too long for his body, and arms too
long for his shoulders, and a forehead
that was too big for either, and a patient

cheerfulness that was in excess of everything,
and a laziness to correspond.

Our poor David w 7 as not beautiful to
men's eyes at this time of his life, still
less to women's. The period of budding
hair upon the manly cheek is rarely
regarded with favour by the gentler sex.
David had a good deal of hair upon his
face for his age, but it unfortunately
arrived in patches, and hair in patches is
perhaps less satisfactory to the eye than
no hair at all.

What he lacked in hair upon his face
was, however, made up to him on his
head. He had a mane of thick, waving,
dark brown hair as fine and soft as silk,
and  horror of horrors to his mother  he
would not keep it cut !

Perhaps one needs to be a British
officer, or the wife of one, to appreciate
fully what this meant to Mrs. Everest.
Everything that was low, disreputable,
and "foreign" belonged by right to the

man who wore long hair. She nearly
shrieked when she saw her son come
back from school, and her first remark
w r as a command to go to the barber's.

David did not say he would go, and he-did
not say he would not go ; but he did
not go until his mother carried him off
there herself, and stood over him while
he submitted to the operation.

He is the most obstinate boy in all
the world," she said to her brother in the
evening.

Charlotte, you are indeed mistaken;
there is not a trace of obstinacy in him."

You tell a mother that she does not
know her own son ! "

The rector was not equal to the retort
that very few mothers do, but he shook
his head in gentle deprecation, and sidled
back to his study ; and for once Mrs.
Everest was left rightful victor of the
field.

The question of David's career was now

being very seriously discussed by everybody
in Broodleigh Eectory except that
young gentleman himself. Perhaps he
had not outgrown his earlier ambition of
lying in the fields and eating apples all
day, that being the only desire he had
ever expressed about his future, for he
certainly mentioned no other.

He is only fit to be married ! " his
mother exclaimed to herself in bitterness,
when every possible profession had been
suggested to him, and he had acknowledged
that he did not care about any of
them ; but she was too discreet to make
her thought public.

Mr. Burney was by no means in such a
hurry to choose a profession for David as
his mother was. He enjoyed having the
lad at home with him so much that he
dreaded any allusion to his leaving him
again ; and as David struggled out of
hobbledehoyhood " into manhood, and
his beard arrived in all its unshorn silken

splendour, Mrs. Everest gradually said
less about the matter.

When Fanny Betterton came back
from school "for good," as she expressed
it, David's beard had just become presentable
to feminine sight, and though he
was still too long for his breadth, he was
anything but an unattractive object to a
girl's eyes.

So at least Miss Fanny thought when
she saw him on the platform of the little
country station, waiting for her. Twelvemonths
will do a good deal for a lad of
nineteen, and Fanny had not seen him
for that period. He handed her into the
pony-carriage politely enough. David
had never been awkward in his manners
to women, only sometimes blunt in his
speech  a much lighter offence to a
woman than uncouthness of demeanour.
David's manner to what, it must be
owned, he considered the feebler sex, was
a mixture of tender protection and involuntary

deference ; and few girls are
proof against that combination, especially
when accompanied by deprecatory glances
from a pair of fine blue eyes.

Before Fanny had arrived at Broodleigh
Eectory, which w r as five miles from any
station, she had quite changed her mind
with regard to the anticipated dulness of
the life there. She did not acknowledge
even to herself that it w r as David who
had-wrought the change in her, but
probably if it had been Mr. Burney who
had driven to the station for her, shew
T ould have regretted her parlour-boarder
life at Exeter as keenly then as she did
two hours before.

There was a good deal of fuss at the
Eectory over Fanny's coming home, all
produced by Mrs. Everest, of course.
One might have thought her a disconsolate
mother welcoming back a
long lost and dearly loved daughter,
instead of a guardian's sister receiving

a girl she had seen not many months
before at school in Exeter. (Fanny's
last holidays had been spent with school
friends.) Mrs. Everest embraced her
most effusively, called her her dear
daughter, declared she had been miserable
without her, etc., and in all respects
behaved as an afflicted parent might have
done under other circumstances.

Fanny was pleased and grateful for
the embraces and the fuss ; both were
pleasant to her. The new furniture in her
room, the late dinner, all in honour of
her, were delightful after school life. She
put on her white muslin and blue ribbons
in quite a flutter of spirits, and in the full
consciousness of being really grown up,
and a person of importance.

Fanny, though not precisely a beauty,
was certainly not the opposite. She was
a tall girl, and plump with that soft white
plumpness that one often sees in a certain
Teutonic type of woman. Her complexion

was very pink and white ; her
cheeks dimpled when she smiled; her
eyes were blue, rather expressionless, of
a pale colour, with fair eyelashes and
rather fat, white lids. She had light hair,
not quite yellow enough for flaxen, hut
too light to he called pale brown; and
was altogether a good-looking, sweet-tempered,
pleasant creature, a trifle dull
perhaps, but gentle and womanly in her
ways.

The perfection of a daughter-in-law r ,"
thought Mrs. Everest, as David took her
in to dinner ; and as that good lady had
but one son, her sentiment needs no
explanation.

It certainly was pleasant to have a girl
in the house, and David and his uncle
were agreed about that; but was it possible
that part of the pleasantness was
the knowledge that now 7 they never had
to face the mistress of the house alone at
meals ? The thoughts of men are sometimes

base. Did David and his uncle
recall the grim stoniness of those family
banquets, and the deluge of words that
came after them ?

Fanny was bright and. cheerful, not
gay or witty, but pleasantly companionable
and thoughtful for those about her.
She cut the morning paper for Mrs.
Everest, and warmed the rector's slippers
for him, and performed innumerable little
offices in the course of the day for everyone
except  and this was a notable
exception  David.

You never offer to run and fetch my
hat for me, Fanny," he said to her one
morning, when she had just equipped the
rector for morning service.

Oh, you can fetch it yourself," she
said, laughing.

So Uncle Theoo did before you came
back. Are you going to help everybody
except me, Fanny ? "

You are big enough to help yourself."

I may be big enough, but I am dreadfully
weak. You don't know r bow weak I
am. I have outgrown my strength, I
have really, and nobody believes it except
Uncle Theoo. I know I am beautiful and
good, but I am not strong."

Fanny had looked grave at the beginning
of his speech, but she laughed at its
conclusion.

I don't believe a word of it," she said.

What ! Not that I am good and
beautiful ? You ask Uncle Theoo ; and as
for weakness, I declare I have hardly
energy enough to crawl about the house
sometimes, only one does not like to
be always complaining." And David's
voice and eyes became remarkably expressive.


Fanny was a little puzzled by him ; he
really did look very slight and thin for
his height. She began secretly to pity
him, and as she watched him day after
day and noticed a certain weary air about

hint, she began by degrees to do the little
things for him that she did for the others;
and, indeed, waited upon him with such
assiduity that the young scamp had a
considerably luxurious time of it, and
enjoyed himself very much.

Life at Broodleigh Eectory was not
exciting; it was, in fact, as dull as any
country life can be. Mr. Burney, though
on good terms with all his neighbours,
was intimate with none of them. He
never visited anywhere out of his own
parish, and rarely there. The clergy of
the neighbourhood were all of a different
school of theology from his, and regarded
him with disapproval, not to say
aversion. There was never anything like
a collision between Mr. Burney and his
clerical brethren, for Mr. Burney always
kept out of the w r ay of such possibilities ;
but Broodleigh Eectory was not open to
the brethren in the sense that other
clerical houses were ; there was no cordial

intercourse with it, and but very little
formal.

Now that Mr. Betterton was dead, and
the manor-house shut up, there was no
resident gentleman in the parish, save the
rector, so David and Fanny were thrown
pretty much on each other for society  a
position of affairs that David sank quietly
into as he sank into most things that he
could not avoid.

Wisdom had, out of the ordinary run of
things, come to Mrs. Everest with length
of years. She no longer strove to entice
or steal her son away from his uncle's
study. She let him spend as much time
there as he pleased, without remonstrance,
until David gradually fell into a
habit of finding that he needed fresh air
in the afternoon ; and Fanny was generally
ready for a walk about the same
time.

"All things work together for good!"
said Mrs. Everest piously to herself as

she watched her son and Fanny walk
down the lane together, and with a sigh
of genuine satisfaction the good lady
turned to the third volume of the last
new novel that had reached Broodleigh
some two years after its publication.
(Mrs. Everest had not had a religious
attack since Fanny had come back.)

A Devonshire lane on a sunny day in
early spring, when the primroses are
starring the red earth, and a tender
flutter of building birds is stirring among
the soft green of newly-opened leaves,
makes a good place for a young man to
think of love, especially if he has a fair,
sweet girl beside him who responds to his
every look and word, and looks and feels
as if the earth were made for happiness.
David would never have a better opportunity
in all his life for falling in love,
nor a surer one for getting it returned ;
but David was one of those unfortunate
people who, somehow, never seize on the

right opportunity : he let this one go
by, and the whole story of his life was
thereby altered.

Being, as usual, quite unconscious of
there being any necessity for him to do
anything, he sauntered by his companion's
side down the leafy lane, enjoying himself
very much. Country sights and sounds
were always pleasant to him ; they were
doubly pleasant now after a hard morning's
work at Hebrew. Sad to say, David
w r as thinking far more of his Hebrew than
of his companion.

Yet he was pleased to have Fanny with
him ; he found her useful to talk to. Her
mind being a perfect blank with regard to
any of his special studies, he could pour
freely upon it his own theories and remarks.
He was sure of never being-contradicted,
or snapped up by somebody
else's theory, which latter is a sore trial
to all young students. He could expound
by the hour to the bewildered Fanny, and

VOL. I. o

frequently talked himself quite round to
the other side of the question he had
started from  a fine exercise for his
intellect, and one that made him very
careful of making up his mind on any
subject with which he was not thoroughly
acquainted.

And as to Fanny  well, what did it
matter if David talked about Hebrew or
Syriac, or went into the vexed question
of early Christian schisms and heresies ?
it all went in at one of her soft white
ears, and out at the other. But she had
the sight of David's face, and the consciousness
of holding his entire attention
the whole time. There are worse vehicles
than Hebrew or early heresies, for conveying
love.

So David talked to his heart's content,
and Fanny listened, and both were happy.
But, alas ! when they came to the end of
the long lane they were no nearer together
than they were before ; only David



was quite satisfied about a point in the
history of the Ephesine family of liturgies,
and Fanny had made up her mind to
have pink feathers instead of blue in her
new bonnet.

Moke than a year went by : David was
past twenty-one, and Fanny was past
nineteen. They w T ere quite old enough,
in Mrs. Everest's opinion, if not actually
to get married, at least to talk of doing
so ; and, so far, not a word had been
breathed on the subject.

Of course this was David's fault, and a
very serious fault it was in his mother's
eyes. A young woman with three thousand
a year, a good house and estate,
who is pretty and pleasant, and ready to
say "Yes," does not generally come in
the way of a penniless young man more
than once in his life. Here was the girl,

the estate, and the love, and David made
no more sign of being sensible of the
benefits before him than if he were deaf,
dumb, and blind. He was clearly a son
framed to agonize a mother's heart.

He was ready enough to talk to Fanny,
and Mrs. Everest had for some months
derived great comfort from his doing so ;
but that was before she knew what he
talked about. When she heard of the
Hebrew and Syriac, and the early rituals
and heresies, she was angry, and told her
son that girls did not care to be talked toon
such subjects.

"Fanny doesn't mind," said David,
composedly. " I told her to tell me if
it bored her, and she never has ; and she
is a capital creature to talk to, for she
never remembers anything, so I can talk
over a subject as often as I like. Some
of my most valuable discoveries are due
to Fanny's deliciously mal a propos remarks;
she muddles everything up, and

asks the most surprising questions. She
is awfully good practice for a lecturer to
begin upon."

You don't mean to say you propose
to give lectures, David ? "

I don't .know, mother. I suppose I
must do something some day, and I rather
like talking."

u Then, why don't you talk to Fanny of
something she likes ? "

Oh, she doesn't like anything very
much ; she is just as pleased with Syriac
as anything else. Girls don't have intellects."


Girls have likes and dislikes."

"Fanny hasn't."

Yes, she has ; she likes you."

u I dare say she does."

You don't seem to care much."

No ; why should I ? I have always
been under the impression that we liked
each other very well."

"David,, I do really believe you care

more for your uncle's horrid books than
for that sweet girl."

Of course I do. Fanny is very nice,
but she is not nearly so interesting as
liturgies."

Mrs. Everest had a very bad attack of
religious depression after this, and the
lives of all persons in Broodleigh Rectory
became burdens to them for a week. At
the end of that time she put away her
commentary, and took to letter-writing,
and was very mysterious and serious for
some time.

One day, when Mr. Burney and David
were just leaving the breakfast-room for
the study, she desired them to remain, as
she had something of consequence to say
to them.

Fanny was just going away, but Mrs.
Everest begged her to stay also ; and
when they all sat staring at her and
wondering what was coming, she, with
much solemnity, began her explanation
of her rather mysterious conduct.

What I have to say relates chiefly to
my son," she began, in a whining voice ;
the unhappy turn which his studies
have taken can be no secret to any one
here. The Word of God is no longer
considered sufficient light for his path,
or guidance for his heart. His mind has
been filled with the pride of knowledge,
and the lust of so-called learning has
taken hold of his soul. For years I have
striven against this unhappy tendency,
but in vain. The knowledge that puffed
itself up against the Word of Life will not
be moved by the tears or entreaties of
a widowed mother." Here Mrs. Everest
put her handkerchief to her eyes, and her
audience looked and felt extremely uncomfortable.


This desirable state of things having
been reached, Mrs. Everest put her handkerchief
away, and proceeded in a brisker
tone.

But it is not of my troubles that I

wish to speak. May none of you ever
know the anguish of a mother's heart
over an erring son ! "

There is only one of us eligible for
the position, mother," interrupted David,
good-humouredly, " so don't let us harrow
up poor Fanny's feelings prematurely."

Your levity, David, when any serious
subject is broached, is one of the severest
trials of my life. You have no sense of
reverence for the Anchor of our faith, so
how should you have for your mother ?
But I will not complain. I have borne
my burden in silence, and so I trust todo
unto the end, when the thoughts of all
hearts shall be revealed."

Could you not anticipate that a little,
mother, and tell us what we are gathered
in council for now. It's rough on poor
Fanny to keep her here to listen to a
recitation of my sins."

Fanny, I am well aware, David, would
sooner hear you praised than blamed."

Here Fanny blushed, and David looked
kindly at her. Perhaps the glance softened
his mother, for she proceeded in a milder
tone  " As I am sure we all would. The
question now is, David, what do you
mean to do with yourself? "

To do my duty in that state of life
unto which, etc., and what that state of
life is I haven't the faintest idea."

The old answer, David; no ambition,
no desire for right."

Why, my dear Charlotte," interposed
Mr. Burney, " you have now heard the
lad say he wished to do his duty ; and as
for ambition, why we must qualify our
title to ambition by good hard work first,
and Davie is working, has worked very
hard indeed. Be ally, the progress he has
made lately is astonishing, quite astonishing."


In Hebrew, I suppose?" said Mrs.
Everest, contemptuously.

Well, yes ; in Hebrew. In Hebrew,

certainly, though as far as our special
subject is concerned, he knows quite
enough for the purpose. I was thinking
of Coptic at the moment, and the wonderful
way in which he is tracing out the
Oriental origin of the Mozarabic and
Gallican Commentaries."

Just so. I have heard of nothing but
your popish liturgies for years. Much
good may they do you ! "

Coptic, my dear Charlotte, is not
precisely popish. So far from being so,
the liturgy of that Church has been considered
heretical by "

Don't tell me about your Optics,
Theophilus. Answer me, are they Protestant?"


u Why, no, my dear; they were "

Very well, that is enough for me.
They are Woman and soul-destroying. I
desire to hear no more about them. I
can only feel that it is a special mercy
that you have never, either of you, yet

deserted the Protestant Church of our
nation for the ' damnable doctrines ' of "

ash sh sh!" said David; "ladies
present."

David!" said his mother, fiercely,
you are enough to make any woman
wild with you. Why don't you listen to
what I am going to say ? "

I was only thinking of Fanny's feelings,"
said David, meekly.

Feelings! A great deal you care for
anybody's feelings. You are an abandoned,
heartless, wicked boy, lost to every sense
of reverence or right ; and now, when I
am trying all I can do to further your
happiness, against all my own wishes, you
thwart me at every turn."

My dear mother," said David, gently,
I really beg your pardon ; I was only
joking."

That is what I complain of, David.
You are always joking. Will jokes help
you on your death-bed ? Ah, David, when

it is too late you may remember your
mother's words."

David sighed. It would certainly not
be for want of maternal counsel that he
would forget them. The sigh cheered his
mother up.

Now, here," she said, pulling a letter
out of her pocket, " is a communication I
received this morning from the Chancellor
of the Exchequer, offering you, on account
of his old friendship with me in happy
years long past, a nomination to the
Registered Statistics Office."

"Eh, eh?" said Mr. Burney ; "Civil
Service ! A very good thing, my dear Charlotte,
but quite unsuited to our dear boy.
Davie's learning and studies would be
quite thrown away on registered statistics
positively thrown away."

Of course you object to everything I
propose for my son, Theophilus. I quite
expected that. Every effort that I make
for him you invariably thw r art. Why is

not David following his blessed father's
footsteps now, and serving his country asa
Christian man and a gentleman should
do ? Why, I ask, is David not doing
this?"

Because I have no fancy for righting,"
said David, seeing the limp and distressed
condition of his old uncle. " You need not
bring Uncle Theoo into that, mother. If
I had joined the army I should have
deserted, I dare say. Now, about this
proposal."

Mr. Burney groaned. He did not know
much of the Civil Service, but he knew
enough of it to feel very certain that his
beloved pupil was eminently unsuited
for the humdrum routine work, the
captiousness of superior officials, the
general rush and potter that distinguish
so many branches of that unremunerative
service.

Mrs. Everest knew this quite as well as
Mr. Burney, perhaps better, and she by

no means concealed the unpleasantness of
the position from her auditors. Indeed,
so melancholy a picture did she draw of
the life, that the poor old rector retired
into his study at the end of the conversation
in a most abject condition of despair.
David would have followed him, but his
mother beckoned him upstairs into her
room.

You have heard what I have said,
David. I considered it was my duty to
place all the disadvantages of the offer
before you. I would not mislead my own
son with false hopes. But, David, you
must accept this offer."

I don't quite see the necessity,
mother."

"I know you do not, that is why I
have brought you here to speak to you in
private. Did it ever occur to you what
we have to live on ? "

You have a pension, and Uncle Theoo
has his living and fellowship."

And what have you ? "

Nothing."

"Quite so. Now, David, your uncle is
an old man, and a failing man. Don't
interrupt me, I know my brother better
than you do. My pension is not enough
for me to live on, let alone keep you upon.
Your uncle's income dies with him. Nov,
do you see why you must accept this
offer ? "

David stood thoughtfully leaning
against the mantelpiece. It was autumn
w r father, and the scent of the late violets
in the garden was wafted in at the open
window ; there was a sound of busy rooks
cawing in the old elm trees outside.
Everything around him spoke of the
peaceful country that he loved. He
wanted a few moments to consider the
plan before him, though, even then, he
knew he must adopt it ; but David did
not like to be hurried, and he wanted to
review calmly his position.

His mother took his silence wrongly, as
she always did.

I did not believe that my husband's
son would ever even have contemplated
being a burden upon his mother," she said
haughtily, after a few moments.

For the first time in his life David
answered his mother rudely.

Have it your own way," he said. " I
don't care what becomes of me;" and
with this he walked out of the room and
down the stairs.

He stopped at the study door and
went in. The old rector was sitting in
his accustomed place, but he was not
reading. His elbows were on the table
among his scattered papers, and his head
upon his hands. He looked up as David
came in.

"It's all right, Uncle Theoo," the lad
said in a husky voice, as he put his arm
on the old man's shoulder. " I shall get a
British Museum reading-ticket, and now

VOL. I. G

IN LONDON TOWN.

I shall be able to find out all about the
Ephesine Liturgies."

God bless you, my boy," answered
Mr. Burney, gazing with moist eyes into
the lad's face. " It will be a dreary parting,
Davie."

But think of the Ephesine Liturgies,"
said David.

Harcourt Street, Bloomsbury, is one of
the smallest of the dismal streets in
that eminently dismal quarter. The
houses are tall, narrow, and rickety,
grimed with dirt within and without, and
most of them have broken out into an
eruption of bills in the windows, announcing
that apartments are to be let
these being the very last things that
any healthy, sane person would be
desirous of taking in such a locality.
All the houses are shut in by corroded
iron railings that seem unable to bear
up against the weight of soot that rests
upon them. The steps are all worn away
in groves and holes. Bells are generally

detached from their handles, and the
paint peels from the doors. The sidewalks
seem the exclusive property of the
children, who quarrel and scream and
loiter there at all hours of the day, and
most of the night. French laundresses,
milliners, dress and stay makers occupy
a good many of the lower floors at the
eastern end of the street; but towards
the west, Harcourt Street is eminently
respectable, and devoted chiefly to taking
in and doing for young men who do not
dine at home.

These desirable inmates are, however,
not always to be obtained, and landladies
often have to put up with inferior game.
In No. 16, Harcourt Street, there was at
present only one specimen of the superior
sort  a mild young man, with light hair
and short sight, who came there regularly
every afternoon at ten minutes past
four, and shut himself up until ten
minutes to nine the next morning, and

never took anything but tea, bread and
butter, and rashers  a very model of a
lodger. Mrs. Doddss felt that if she could
secure another like horn for her empty
first-floor, she might indeed look for
happiness in the future. Her second-floor
was occupied by an artist. Mrs.
Doddss did not approve of artists. She
knew of artists who had no respect for
the natural feelings of a landlady on
quarter-day ; but this artist, who was
a middle-aged woman, had hitherto
"obliged" Mrs. Doddss with great regularity.
So, though that worthy lady
regularly lashed herself every week into
a state of smothered ferocity in case of
non-payment, she had always so far
received her money. But there was yet
another floor  the attics, or third-floor.
There was a nice skylight in the large
room, as Mrs. Doddss pointed out to any
possible lodger, and if there was no other
window in the little room, why, you

could leave the door open; there was
light enough in the whig room for two.
The roof of these rooms w r as sloping at
the sides, and the little room was nothing
more than a closet hoarded off from the
larger one. Both were damp, dingy,
hare, and cold, and as comfortless 
as could well he found.

Some years ago they had been taken
by an old gentleman and his daughter.
They would only w r ant them for a short
time, the old man said  a few days, at
most a few weeks; they were in temporary
distress, and should soon have-their
affairs all settled. They would
bring a little furniture just for the time ;
it was a mere temporary arrangement
anything would do.

So two stump bedsteads, a table, and a
couple of chairs, and one or two little odds
and ends had been sent in, and the old
man and his daughter took possession.

He was rather a tall, thin man, and he

seemed of a fidgety, excitable disposition.
Mrs. Doddss felt herself justified in
asking for a fortnight's rent in advance
before she came to terms about her
rooms.

The little girl who was with him w r asa
plain, sallow child, with large deep
brown eyes of a reddish tinge, and
flaming red hair  a stern, quiet-looking
child, utterly unlike her fidgety, restless
father. Somehow or other Mrs. Doddss
felt more reliance on the child than she
did on the father.

They had stayed on in the dismal
attics, day after day, week after week,
year after year, the old man ever talking
of going, the girl rarely speaking to anyone.
No additional comforts had been
added to their rooms ; very little food
was consumed in them ; and scarcely ever,
except on Sundays and in the evenings,
was a fire lighted there, even in the
bitterest weather.

The old man generally went out every
morning and did not return until night,
yet he did not seem to have any situation,
for sometimes he would stay at home fora
week together, and then he spent all
his time in arranging vast quantities of
papers that he always had strewn about on
the table. What the girl did with herself
all day nobody knew, and nobody cared,
at any rate, for some years. "When the
little artist came to live on the second
floor, one human being, at least, took
some interest in the forlorn child. Miss
Hatchard, with the free-uneasiness
common among the brethren and sisters
of her craft, often left her door open, and
went on with her work, regardless of the
possibility of prying eyes invading her
sanctum. Standing before her easel and
painting briskly away, the little woman
now and then noticed a childish figure
glide slowly down the stairs and pass her
door. It was a red-haired, slight figure,

clad in a poor gown, and childish enough
to linger in passing and steal a glance in
at the open door. But the little figure
never turned its head, never looked at
the streak of sunlight that fell upon the
landing floor, never betrayed by the
slightest sign any consciousness of there
being any door there at all.

Miss Hatchard began by being a little
amused, and ended by being somewhat
piqued. She was a lonely woman, and
would have been glad of even a friendly
greeting from the passing girl. Besides,
she argued with herself, " It ain't natural
for a girl not to be curious about
nothing." She put her easel close beside
the door with a showy picture upon it,
and left it there while she stood back a
little. The girl took not the slightest
notice.

Hello ! " said Miss Hatchard.

The girl stopped.

"Did you speak? "

"Fond of pictures, ain't you'* said
Miss Hatchard, waving her paint-brush.
Most girls is. Step in and look around,
if you like. You w r on't hinder rne. Lor,
if I was going to be hindered by that
I shouldn't do much."

Bather to Miss Hat chard's surprise, the
girl did walk in, and very deliberately
walked round the room, looking at the
various half-completed works of art that
lay there.

Fond o' pictures ? " asked the artist.

No," said the girl.

"Lor!" said Miss Hatchard, a little
taken aback by the cool directness of the
reply. " What are you fond of, then ? "

Nothing," said the girl calmly.

Well, I never ! " ejaculated Miss
Hatchard, pausing, with her brush uplifted
in the air. " Well, I never ! Do
you like that picture ? " she continued,
as the girl paused before the easel.

No," she said ; " it's badly drawn."

"Well, however do you know that?"
retorted the artist, a little affronted.

The visitor made no reply, save b}~
unbuttoning the sleeve of her dress and
baring her arm.

There," she said, "look at that. My
elbow is not like yours in the picture."

Miss Hatchard looked and sighed. It
was only too obvious that the uncivil
young visitor spoke the truth.

I will stand here and let you alter it,
if you like," the girl said; "that is, if
you think it is w T orth w r hile getting it
right."

"Worth while ? Of course it is," said
the little artist. " That's very obliging
of you to stand ; for, between you and
me, I can't afford a model very often,
and am obliged to do my figures out of
my own head."

The girl made no reply, and Miss
Hatchard painted away industriously for
some little time. The girl held her arm

as steady as a rock. It was a smooth,
well shaped arm, a little too thin  the
girl was too thin everywhere ; she looked
only half nourished, which was really the
case. Miss Hatchard noticed the colour
of her skin  a clear cream colour, not
white, not even very fair, but with no
warmth of colour about it ; it looked
almost bloodless in its waxen hue.

I never see no such colour as yours
before," she said, while she squeezed
some Naples yellow upon her palette.
You ain't white, nor you ain't seller,
nor brown, nor red. I never see no such
colour. You ain't got no matter about
you, have you? "

For an, instant a little red flush came
into the girl's cheeks, and her eyes
brightened, but the colour faded directly,
and she said 

No ; I am English and Italian."

Why, Italians is mostly brown, as
I know 'em," responded Miss Hatchard,

as she put her head on one side and gave
a dab at her canvas. " If you wouldn't
be particular to a minute, I'd paint your
neck in, so as to get the right shade.
As I was a-saying, Italians is generally
brown, when they ain't Christian white
people dressed up like foreigners; but
you ain't no brown in you ; and your
'air  why, it's as red as red ! " and Miss
Hat chard worked on in a ruminating
manner.

"What's your name?" she asked at
last.

Fiametta Harold."
Lor, what a funny name ! "
"It w r as my mother's," said the girl,
not without a little stiffening of the neck.
Ah! " said' Miss Hatchard. "Foreign
names do sound singular. Now, my
name's Maria. I essay that sounds
sort o' odd to you."

I know the Italian form of it pretty
well," said the girl, smiling for the first

time ; " and I think that is prettier than
the English form."

"Ah, I essay," said Miss Hatchard,
in a tone of commiseration. " No doubt
you cling to your own ways ; but your
par, he ain't Italian, is he ? "

"No; he is English."

And what's his trade? What do he
do, I mean, to get his living?" Miss
Hatchard explained, in consideration of
the young foreigner's probable lack of
acquaintance with English idioms.

He has no trade," said the girl scornfully
; " he is a gentleman."

"Lor! well, I shouldn't ha' thought
it," said Miss Hatchard, simply. "And
why ever don't he do something, my
dear, to get a nicer 'one for you than a
attic ? "

"Because he is a fool," said Eiametta,
quietly ; " because he throws good money
after bad, and because he believes in old
things instead of new ; because he is an

aristocrat, and will not soil his hands
with toil, though he would steep his feet
in the blood of the people, and think
that no disgrace. But he will not work,
neither will he let rne work."

Miss Hatchard stared at her young
friend over her palette in a manner expressive
of the most profound astonishment.
" Well, I never! " she ejaculated
feebly.

Yes," said Fiametta, still holding her
arm in its required position, and speaking
as calmly as if she were discussing the
weather  " Yes ; my father considers himself
the rightful heir to a large property.
I don't believe he is, myself; but he
thinks so, and so he tries to prove it.
He has been some years about it now,
and I suppose he will go on so until he
dies."

But what do you live on now ? "

"What he makes when he can tear
himself away from his papers, and deeds,

and pedigrees, by copying in the British
Museum; and I believe we have a few
pounds a year from some share or something
he was not able to sell when he
disposed of the rest of his property."

But suppose he dies, what will you
do, my dear ? " inquired the little artist,
with genuine concern in her tones.

Fiametta shrugged her shoulders ; then,
letting her arm drop, said, " Work. I
am tired of standing now."

"Well, I am very much obliged to
you," said Miss Hat chard, gratefully.
Will you stop and have a bit of dinner ?
I am just a-going to begin. Boiled pork
and greens."

Fiametta hesitated.

I can't ask you back again," she
said, " and I don't believe in charity. I
will neither give it or receive it. It is
demoralising alike to both."

"Lor, this ain't charity!" said Miss
Hatchard, sweeping her paints from one



corner of the table. " Why, you've been
standing for me to eighteen penny worth,
and your dinner won't cost that. Sit
down ; " and Fiametta sat down.

VOL

The young gentleman before referred to,
who occupied Mrs. Doddss's ground-floor,
was none other than Mr. Frederick
Fowler, David's old schoolfellow. His
quiet and regular habits have already
been mentioned. He always came straight
back from the British Museum, where he
was a " junior assistant," to Harcourt
Street, and he spent his evenings all
alone with his books.

In person Mr. Fowler was a slightly-made
young man, with rather stooping
shoulders, and an uncertain kind of
walk, as though he were afraid of committing
himself by taking too decided a

step in anything. He had thin sandy-coloured
hair, that hung in a limp way
down the back of his neck, and was too
modest to assert itself anywhere on his
face. His eyes were supposed to be of a
pale blue ; but as Mr. Fowler, partly from
shyness, partly from a vague effort to see
better out of them, invariably kept them
all but entirely closed when speaking to
anybody, their colour was at best a matter
of conjecture.

Mr. Fowler served his country between
the hours of nine and four, and very
unprofitable service he found it. For the
magnificent income of one hundred and
twenty pounds a year, rising by tens to
two hundred and fifty, his country required
Mr. Fowler to pass seven hours
a day in an underground cell, badly
lighted and worse ventilated, and very
indifferently heated, in company with a
large collection of miscellaneous and extremely
evil-smelling specimens of Palaeon-

theological Conchology and of various other
Palaeontological, Archaeological, Prae-historical,
Entomological, and a few other
'logical curiosities and remains, real and
supposed.

Mr. Fowler being of an exceptionally
meek and lamb-like disposition, he was
never known to make any complaint of
either his country or his luck ; but, ashe
did not express any satisfaction either,
it is possible that he found the subjects
too dismal for contemplation.

Mr. Fowler had very few acquaintances
and no friends. His poverty and his
shyness, the unfortunate impediment in
his speech, and his studious habits, all
combined to render him a lonely man.
He was on speaking terms with a few
other junior assistants as friendless as
himself, and outside the Museum he had
no acquaintances at all, unless, as seemed
very unlikely, any of his old schoolfellows
should meet and recognize him.

This being the case, Mr. Fowler's perturbation
of mind may easily be imagined
when one winter morning, as he was
pursuing his customary labours, a childish
voice said at his elbow, " Oh, if you
please, are you Mr. Frederick Fowler? "

It was a timid voice, with a half
pathetic, half bewildered cadence in it,
and it astonished Mr. Fowler quite as
much as if one of the " specimens " before
him had taken to itself legs and walked
away.

And, if you please," the voice continued,
" can you tell me anything about
palseontological conchology ? "

The question was such a very unusual
one, and the voice was such a very uncommon
one in that department, which
ladies do not generally beautify by their
presence, that Mr. Fowler was quite
taken off his guard, and, instead of replying
in a vague and uncertain manner, ashe
would have done if he had time to

reflect, he said in about thirty seconds in
what was a great hurry for him.

Oh dear, no ! I am the last person,
or one of the last, you should ask about
such a thing."

"But the attendant said you were Mr.
Frederick Fowler, and cousin Tom certainly
said you were in the Phrenological
Conchology Department ; and this
is it, is it not? "

Oh yes, this is it," said Mr. Fowler,
his native bashfulness again deserting
him at the enormity of the supposition.
B-b-but that is just the very reason
why."

"I don't understand," said the young
lady, looking at Mr. Fowler with a pair
of widely opened blue eyes that had as
little guile in them as a baby's.

Oh, it's simple enough," said Mr.
Fowler. " You see, specialists are not
required here, except in very few cases ; so
of course if a man understands any one

subject pretty well he must necessarily
be put into quite another department."

The young lady shook her head and
looked still more puzzled.

"I really thought," she said at last ina
plaintive voice, " that I should only
have to come here and ask you, and you
would tell me all about palseontological
conchology."

There was silence for the space of a
minute or two after this, and for the first
time in his life Mr. Fowler wished that
he did understand some of the mysteries
of his department.

Is it very difficult ? " the young lady
asked.

I  I really don't know," stammered
Mr. Fowler, his original bashfulness
having come over him in the interval
of silence.

"I don't know what to do now," the
young lady said sorrowfully.

There w r as another space of silence.

"I  I  at least, that is, I think it is
possible, at least, I know a man in the
library who could tell you all about it,"
said Mr. Fowler, turning crimson at the
audacity of his proposal ; "if you would
like, that is, if you wanted to know.' ,

"I don't want to know in the least,"
said the young lady, " only aunt says I
have not the slightest aptitude for general
information, and so I must take up a
special subject ; and as Greek and
mathematics and political economy are
rather commonplace now, she chose this
subject for me. I don't want to know
anything about it at all."

"But  but," said Mr. Fowler, in an
agony of shyness, yet impelled by a power
he had never known before to continue
the conversation, " are you obliged to
learn things you don't want to ? "

The girl looked at him with a wondering
expression in her baby eyes.

"Oh yes," she said solemnly. "It

would be dreadful not to have a part in
the higher education of women. Aunt
says I must go to Girton next year, and
I must get up a special subject in the
mean time. I wish it wasn't something
that had such a long name. What is it
about, do you know ? "

Mr. Fowler moved uneasily from one
foot to the other, then, looking nervously
round the corner of the partition to make
sure that none of the superior officials
were within hearing, he said in a whisper,
I  I am not quite sure, but I think it's
about shells."

Oh, that might be nice ! " cried the
girl. " Shells are pretty."

But these have all been buried such
a long time that nobody is quite sure
what they are," said Mr. Fowler, in a
dubious tone.

Oh ! " said the young lady with a
shade of disappointment coming over her
pretty face.

In a minute or two she looked up and
asked 

"Have you got any special subject,
or do you go for general information
? "

Mr. Fowler reddened to the tips of his
toes and the roots of his hair.

"I  I know a little," he stammered;
at least, that is, I have w-w- worked
very hard at Anglo-saxon. "

Then why don't you do Anglo-saxon
here ? " inquired the girl.

Mr. Fowler shook his head modestly.

Oh no, that would never do," he
said; "all the traditions of the place
would he upset. No ; the man who does
the Anglo-saxon is the b-b-best musician
we have in the place. His knowledge of
musical manuscripts is something wonderful."


There did not seem to be anything
more to be said after this, yet neither of
them seemed disposed to break off their

interview. At last, after many blushes
and considerable perturbation of mind,
Mr. Fowler asked 

Ex-ex-excuse me, but what subject
do you like best  for study  that is, I
mean," he hurriedly explained.

Oh, you'll tell some one if I say what
it is, or laugh at me," said the girl,
raising her childish eyes to his face.

"N-n-no; never. I couldn't think of
such a thing. I  I never laughed at
anybody in my life," said Mr. Fowler, in
dismay at the bare accusation.

"Well, then," said the young lady
sinking her voice, " it's  but I'm sure
you'll be disgusted  it's plain sewing."

"No, really, is it?" said Mr. Fowler.
W-w-why, how very charming !  at
least, I mean, so nice, you know."

"And you are not shocked?" said the
girl.

Oh dear, no ; not in the least. It 
w r hy it's so delightfully useful, you know

feminine ; and  and it's quite charming,
I think."

Such enthusiasm had never been roused
in Mr. Fowler's breast before. He blushed
again to think of it, yet somehow it was
exquisite pleasure to have those blue eyes
looking up at him, as if his opinion really
did matter.

"I am so glad you think so," she said
with a little sigh. " I never mention it
at my aunt's, where I live, because I
disgusted so many friends by owning toit
once. All the women I know boast
that they wouldn't know how to use a
needle if they had one, except in crewel
work. It's one of the degrading burdens
that man, the tyrant, has fastened upon
woman, they say. It makes me quite
ashamed to be able to sew neatly, for it
shows how dreadfully far off I must be
from emancipated, free, glorious woman.
Now and then, for a treat, I go upstairs
and lock my door and hem a pocket-handkerchief.

I always pretend I buy
them ready hemmed, you know."

"Dear me, now I think.it together
so delightful of you ! " said Mr. Fowler,
rendered desperate by the light in the
blue eyes. " Why, there is nothing I like
so much as to see ladies sewing; it's  it's
so delightfully domesticated, you know."

The girl shook her head again ; it was
a very small pretty head, with a blue
bonnet on it of a deep artistic blue that
contrasted well with the sunny waving
hair that was drawn back to a knot below
the bonnet.

You are looking at my hair," she said.
I know it's not fashionable, but I do so
hate to see hair in a mess. Aunt wants
me to cut mine, but I won't; I like it
smooth best."

"Oh, so do I, ever so much best!"
cried Mr. Fowler, in an irrepressible burst
of enthusiasm.

"But it isn't right to be domestic or

very neat," she said, with a little sorrowful
shake of her head again. " Women
ought to breathe the same air of free,
public life as men ; not be cramped like
something  I forget what  in low domestic
life.

Mr. Fowler was on the point of flinging
himself, body, soul, and spirit, into a
passionate disavowal of these sentiments,
when he was interrupted by the arrival of
a tall, thin, angular-looking lady, in a
gown of saddest green ; a long cloak of a
deeper shade hung from her shoulders.

Helen!" she said, " come quickly
with me. Mr. Daffy the poet is walking
about just outside, and I do so want
you to admire his dear, sweet, delicate,
interesting face."

Oh, aunt, this is Mr. Fowler, and he
has been so kind, he is "

Yes, oh yes ; Tom's schoolfellow. So
glad to meet you ; quite too kind of
you. You will come and see me on my

evenings  Thursdays. I think I have a
card; yes. Miss Markham, Tom Markham's
aunt, you know, your old schoolfellow.
So too kind of you. Now, my
sweet child, really  so many thanks, good
day. We shall see you on Thursday."

And the tall lady swept away with her
niece in charge under a parting salute
of disconnected sentences, leaving Mr.
Fowler in a state of bewilderment and
excitement, hitherto unprecedented in
his existence.

He sat down and thought for the next
hour or two over the extraordinary circumstance
that had befallen him. At
first he could think of nothing but the
childish glance of those blue eyes. He
was conscious of nothing but a vague,
delicious sense of having been appealed
to by those blue eyes in a way that nobody
had ever appealed to him before.
Mr. Fowler was by no means a vain
young man, and he turned chilly at the

fearful presumption of supposing that so
delightful and lovely a creature had really
cared twopence-halfpenny for his opinion
on anything.

Mr. Fowler walked hack to Harcourt
Street that afternoon in a. very perturbed
state of mind. For the first time in his
life he forgot his umbrella, and, what was
still more significant, he did not remember
his loss. "When Sarah Ann brought
him his tea, she found him buried in a
deep and gloomy scrutiny of the hearth-rug
; but he started and blushed in a
guilty manner, as if he had been caught
doing something he ought not to have
done.

That same evening Mr. Powder went
out and bought a new pair of boots, two
sizes too small for him ; also some gloves,
superfluities of civilisation whose absence
he had never noticed before. The next
day he had his hair cut, and was measured
for a new suit of clothes. On Saturday

he bought a hat. On Sunday he went
to church three times, to three different
"West End churches. Mr. Fowler was
ignorant, and did not know that ladies
of the type of Miss Markham are often a
great deal too advanced, and have far
too much superior knowledge, or think
they have, to go to church at all ; so he
missed seeing the object of his adoration,
for it may as well be said at once that
Mr. Fowler was desperately, foolishly,
honestly, supremely, and altogether in
love.

Three more dreadful days to drag
through before Thursday. Mr. Fowler's
soul sank within him as he made a
mental calculation of the number of hours
and minutes that must elapse before he
saw " Helen" again. During these days
he would come into the hall at ten
minutes to four, and walk nervously up
and down until the hands of the clock
over the Grenville library pointed to the

VOL. I. 8

hour. Then he would rush forward, and
deposit his key with the gold-laced attendant
at the entrance, and go down the
steps and away to the park as fast as the
new boots could take him.

Here, again, Mr. Fowler's knowledge
of men and manners was at fault. Ladies
like Miss Markham have, or imagine they
have, far too much to do to frequent the
haunts of the mere fashionable world
and sit and look at the fashions. There
is no fashion for them but the fashion of
eccentricity.

Thursday came, as usual, directly after
Wednesday, and at nine o'clock in the
evening Mr. Fowler gave a modest little
knock  he was quite incapable of pulling
the bell too  at Miss Markham' s door.

He was dreadfully taken aback by the
door being flung wide open before he
could get his hand back again.

u There must have been somebody
there waiting on purpose," thought the

terrified little man. " I never knew anything
so alarming."

In a considerably bewildered state Mr.
Fowler was ushered into a large, dimly
lighted drawing-room on the first-floor,
filled with people, who were all talking
loudly together. The room was rendered
dim and indistinct by the dark green of
its walls and the number of curtains that
seemed to be everywhere. After a hurried
greeting from Miss Markham, who had
to welcome a string of people coming
after him, Mr. Fowler found himself
gradually edged away into a corner behind
an ottoman.

When he had sufficiently recovered his
scattered senses; he looked about him for
Helen ; but she was nowhere to be seen.
The room was so full of people that she
might well be there, though invisible to
him, and he stood waiting patiently in
his corner until she should appear.

Nobody seemed to notice him at all.

The ladies on the ottoman gossiped we
beg their pardon, discussed in a cheerful
manner such light subjects as the state
of the existing land laws, and how much
better they would be with their improvements
added, or they demonstrated to
some neophyte the inestimable advantages
that would accrue upon an extension of
the electoral franchise. When they
washed to unbend and descend to the
level of mere ordinary intellects, they
talked of current literature and its influence
upon the masses.

Mr. Fowler could not help hearing their
conversation, and they did not appear to
have the slightest objection to his or anyone
else's doing so, for they all talked
at the top of their voices.

Mr. Fowler was rather confused by
what he heard, and his soul sank lower and
lower. A horrible sense of his own utter
incapacity to sustain for five minutes the
sort of conversation to which he listened

overcame him. What should he do if
that adorable creature, with the heavenly
blue eyes, asked him for his opinion on
the existing land laws ? From his personal
experience he had no reason to believe
there were any. He felt that he would
not show to much better advantage
should she engage him in conversation
respecting the extension of the franchise.
He actually did not know if he had a
vote or not. What would she think of
him?

He edged away to another corner,
hoping that in that part of the room he
might hear subjects with which he was
more familiar talked about ; but he was
even worse confounded there. Everybody
within hearing was violently airing his or
her condemnatory opinion of the Married
Women's Property Law. This being
Mr. Fowler's first introduction to the
knowledge that such a law existed, he
felt utterly crushed by the appalling

amount of ignorance he laboured under.
He began to think of retiring from the
presence of so much learning, and as his
eyes wandered towards the door, they
met those well-remembered blue eyes on
a voyage of discovery too.

To his dying day Mr. Fowler never
knew how he did it ; but all at once he
was beside the owner of the blue eyes,
and was holding her hand, but only for a
moment. He was much too modest todo
more than give it a conventional little
grasp, and then he dropped it.

I am so glad you remembered to
come," said Helen, looking at him in the
same innocent way as she had looked at
him in the dingy, dusty museum. " I
was afraid you would forget all about
it."

I  I that is, I have n-n-n-never
thought about anything else," Mr. Fowler
stammered forth ; and then covered himself
with confusion, as with a cloak, in his

fear at having said something he ought
not.

But the blue eyes only sought his in a
little inquiring sort of way, and Helen
said 

I think there are some chairs in that
window, and I am so tired."

Oh, so am I. I mean  that is,
d-d-d-dreadfully tired before you  at
least, I  I was just now;" and in an
excess of agony Mr. Fowler stepped upon
Helen's dress, and drew a few yards of
frilling off it in his endeavours to disentangle
his feet.

Oh, it doesn't matter a bit ! " cried
that young lady, as, blushing and stammering
and desperately miserable, Mr.
Fowler made elaborate failures at an
apology. " We can sit down here, and
I will pin it up. I can mend it myself,
you know," she added in a lower tone ;
and it will be so nice."

The chairs that Helen had indicated

were two cleverly placed low seats in the
recess of a window, partly shaded by
some curtains. Once out of the full
observation of the talking crowd, Mr.
Fowler recovered himself a little, but not
sufficiently to open a conversation. The
talk to which he had been listening,
and his unlucky stumble, had effectively
driven for the time even his mother
tongue from him. After an interval of
some minutes, during which his companion
was as silent as himself, he
managed to pull himself together, and
ask in a hesitating manner 

I  I s-s-s-suppose you are very much
interested about the 1-1-1-land laws, Miss
Helen ? "

The blue eyes were raised in childlike
wonder to his face.

Oh dear ! " she said, with something
like a pout, "you are just one of them
after all, then. I did hope that you did
not care for all those things. I thought

you were going to be somebody nice forme
to talk to."

Oh, I  I assure you!" cried Mr.
Fowler, wildly, " I  I don't know anything
at all ab-b-b-bout the subject, only
I thought, of course, you must."

"No, I don't; I hate it all. I don't
care what the laws are, or who makes
them, so that they will leave me alone."

No m-m-more do I. I  I am so
glad you don't."

"You don't know anything about the
higher education of women either, do
you ? " asked Helen, a little doubtfully.

I  I assure you I d-d-d-didn't even
know they had any," responded her
admirer ardently. " I  I think all women
ought to be like you, Miss Helen. I  I
do indeed. I I adore plain sewing ; I
do, really."

"Hush!" said Helen; then bending
forward a little, she said, " Hush ! but my
name isn't really Helen, and I should like

you to call me by my real name. I was
christened Nellie, after poor dear mamma,
w T ho is dead ; but aunt said no woman
who ever did anything for the honour and
dignity of her sex ever was, or could be,
called such a silly, frivolous name. She
said there had been grand, majestic,
queenly Helens, a glory to their womanhood,
and so she always calls me Helen,
in the hope, I suppose, that I may do
something dignified some day; but I never
shall, I know, and I like Nellie so much
better."

Oh, so do I ! " rapturously exclaimed
Mr. Fowler. "I think it is the lo-loveliest
name in all the world."
Then you will call me Nellie ? "
Mr. Fowler was on the point of protesting,
with all the emotion of a bursting
soul, that to do so would afford him more
delight than all the other joys of life
rolled into one, or of using some other
equally fervid expression of the same

kind, when he was prevented from saying
anything at all by the interposition of a
manly form between himself and the
object of his attentions.

Oh, Helen, dear!" said the new-comer,
coolly, "your aunt is looking for you, I
think. She sent me for you. How awfully
hot this corner must be ! You look quite
rosy."

Certainly it must have been very warm
there, for not only was Helen's face of a
rosy red, but Mr. Fowler's was literally
scarlet ; yet Helen protested, as she
was led away upon the stranger's arm,
that she was not hot, not at all hot.
For one moment Mr. Frederick Fowler
thought of rushing after that young man
and felling him to the ground, rescuing
the young lady from him, and flying with
her light form in his arms down the
stairs and out into the night. The next
moment he took out his pocket-handkerchief
and wiped his brow, and drew

further back into the recess of the
window.

Who was this objectionable stranger ?
Mr. Fowler felt sure that the owner of
the loveliest name in the world had not
wished to go with him, for she frowned a
little as she went away. He had called
her " Helen "  there was great comfort
in that; he had been asked to call her
Nellie," and she had looked at him
as she made the request. Was it possible
? No ; her eyes must have that
sweet look in them always. He was a
fool ! And so in alternate bliss and
wretchedness Mr. Fowler passed an unquiet
hour.

The entrance of light refreshments,
borne on trays by servants, caused a
temporary rearrangement of the company,
and in the moving about Mr. Fowler
saw for a brief instant the one young
lady of his thoughts. She was at the
further end of the second drawing-room,

sitting beside an elderly man, who appeared
to be talking to her of something
that did not particularly interest
her ; for Mr. Fowler could have sworn
(only he never did swear) that he saw
her eyes move towards the corner he
was in.

Without a moment's hesitation he rose
and glided between the intervening ladies
and gentlemen straight up to her side,
and, without stopping to think of what
he was about, for he would most certainly
have faltered and stammered if he had,
he said 

Miss Nellie, what can I have the
pleasure of bringing you ? "

Thank you, I will take a sandwich,"
said Miss Nellie.

And then, when Mr. Fowler, all in a
glow of excitement and delight, brought
the sandwich to her, the old gentleman,
seeing very plainly that he was not
wanted, did as all old gentlemen should,

IN LONDON TOWN.

and moved out of the way. Whereupon
Nellie's eyes turned to the vacant seat in
such a very unmistakable manner that
Mr. Fowler promptly sat upon it.

Mks. Severest accompanied David to town
at the end of December, when he went up
for his examinations. Mr. Burney had
made a faint offer of doing so, but was
quenched by an allusion to his Sundays,
and the opinion that they would spend all
their time in the British Museum and
forget all about the examination. This
remark was fraught with so much truth
that the rector blushed as if he had been
detected in some unlawful act, and thus
further provoked his sister into stating
her belief that what he wished was for the
boy to fail, and a guilty conscience here
asserted itself so overpoweringly that Mr.

Burney's sole method of war, retreat,
was alone open to him.

For reasons of her own, Mrs. Everest
was determined her son should not fail,
and even sent him for three weeks'
cramming to a celebrated coach. Whether
by his means or in spite of him is not
known, but David did pass his examination,
and was formally appointed.

Mrs. Everest, as she had found the appointment
and the tutor for her son, also
found his lodgings. While David was with
his tutor, she traversed miles of dismal
streets with that object. She was difficult
to please, but she was pleased at last ; for
Harcourt Street combined within its
precincts all the undesirablenesses that
had existed separately in all the other
streets she had visited. It was old and
dirty, noisy yet dull, swarming with
children, and overrun with costermongers,
hand-organs, and cats.

Mrs. Everest tried two or three houses

in the street, but Mrs. Doddss, at No. 16,
exceeded all the other landladies in acidity
of aspect and shrillness of voice, so Mrs.
Everest promptly engaged her vacant
first-floor, and, with an energy that
characterised all that worthy lady's proceedings,
heat down Mrs. Doddss's terms
to the very last; halfpenny, thus preparing
a very cordial reception for her son.

David did not seem quite so much disgusted
with the shabby, dirty little rooms
as his mother had expected. He said
they would do very well, and then apparently
dismissed the subject from his
mind.

Never mind," she thought to herself.
He may pretend he does not care at first,
but I know he will hate the constant
noise and fuss, and the dirt and untidiness
 brought up as he has been he cannot
fail to do so ; and he will hate the regular
hours, and that fussy chief clerk, and
those silly young men ; and I am sure

VOL. I. 9

he will not get his meals nicely. He
will soon be tired of it all and come home
disgusted, and then dear Fanny ! "

So Mrs. Everest settled herself comfortably
in the corner of the first-class
carriage on her way home, and congratulated
herself at having at last found the
right way to treat her wayward son. If
he would not be amenable to reason, and
do what his mother knew was for his own
happiness, he should taste by bitter experience
that there are worse lots in life
than to marry an heiress and be a country
gentleman.

She smiled as she thought of the dirt
and shabbiness of the dreary little sitting-room
; and the very next day went up with
Fanny to the Hall, and threw the windows
of the drawing-room open, and contrasted
in her own mind David's room and these
spacious, handsomely furnished apartments,
and was very well pleased with her
plans.

Bat what is dirt to a scholar ? That
graceless David actually revelled in it.
He gloried in finding his papers in the
morning exactly as he had left them overnight.
It was a state of savagery that he
enjoyed. It never gave him a qualm of
disgust that his muddy boots reposed on
the sofa, or his pipes among the bread
and butter on the sideboard, or that dirty
teacups remained for days upon his mantelpiece.
His room speedily became the den
that scholars delight in, and David sat
within it and grubbed among his dusty
papers, and devoured his books with his
meals, and w T as as free and happy as
possible.

There was one great thing about
David's lodgings that Mrs. Everest had
overlooked  they were not more than ten
minutes from the British Museum. David
went from his office straight to the 
every day, and stayed there
until it closed. Our hero never troubled

himself about the morrow, but enjoyed
the present in a way that would have
saddened his mother's soul had she but
known it.

David, therefore, became one of the
regular stream of readers that pours into
the great round room every day, and,
like the majority of them, took very
little heed of his fellows. Yet some of
them were well worth the looking at.
Perhaps as curious a collection of
humanity comes out through the swing
glass doors at the closing hour as can
be seen in any part of the globe. East
and West, savage and sage, jostle each
other. Great scientists and needy 
; lights of history and compilers
of sixpenny sermons ; wonderful old fogies,
each with one particular craze more astounding
than those of his fellows; young
ladies who go to read novels, and to look
at old fashion-books ; students of every
subject under the sun; and astonishing

old ladies, who manage to pick up a living
they only know how  by doing odd
jobs of copying, and finding out the
authors of hymns and quotations. Last,
not least  for, alas ! there are many of
them  the men who have been barristers,
clergymen, scholars, gentlemen  God only
knows what they are now !  who, day
after day and year after year, hang about
the great room, and copy, and compare,
and make notes, and do any odd jobs
that any one will give them for a few
pence. They get shabbier and shabbier.
In the winter their pinched, drawn faces
are dreadful to see. They come with the
first opening of the doors, and painfully
drag themselves away the very last at
night. The place is home and warmth
and light to them. What becomes of
them when they go out in the bitter,
fog-laden air is a problem to puzzle the
tender-hearted. They are well known by
sight to the more respectable readers,

who generally prefer taking seats at a
little distance from them, for reasons
better imagined than described.

David being a new-comer, and one
never disposed to observe his neighbours
nicely, had on several occasions taken
a seat beside a very good specimen of
the class we have referred to. He was
an old man, with a grey beard, and
rather long grey hair that fell over his
greasy coat collar. He had light-blue
eyes, red and wrinkled about the lids,
and inclined to wariness at the corners ;
a haggard, hungry expression of face
that would have been fierce if there
had been more power in it. He stooped
a good deal, and had very nervous, restless,
long claw-like hands. His clothing
had originally been a good black cloth
suit  it must have been a good one
to have held together during the years
that it had appeared in the reading-room ;
it was very shiny, very greasy, very

frayed at the edges now. Contrary to
the habits of most of his confreres, he
wore a wisp of yellow shirt-collar at his
neck; but his boots were so old, so
patched, so broken, that it was a marvel
how he kept them upon his feet.

Tradition spoke of his having come
there in the same garb many years ago.
He had been very bright and hopeful
then, and had been apt to talk of his
estates in the country, and the handsome
reward he would give to any man who
would find a certain certificate or deed
for him. By degrees he talked less ; now
he rarely spoke to any one, but continued
his ceaseless, restless comparing and
shifting and turning of papers.

David and he might have sat beside
each other for ten years and become no
better acquainted, but for a trifling accident.
The old man had been angry and
querulous at some little mistake made by
an attendant, and had spoken roughly to

the man. He was subject to these little
outbreaks of temper, and they were generally
passed by unheeded ; but this was a
new attendant, and one not sufficiently
trained in patience for the ways of the
place. He answered the old man, and a
little quarrel ensued, which ended in the
attendant's applying to a pale, fair-haired
young man with a book in his hand, who
happened to be passing by at the time.

Mr. Fowler," the man said, " stop a
minute, sir, please. You hear what I am
a-being called ? "

I  I have no authority to interfere,"
stammered the little man, nervously ;
you should apply to the s-s-s-superin-
pendent ; " and he was just gliding on his
inoffensive way when David looked up.

Why, Fowler! " he exclaimed. " Is
Saul also among the prophets ? Why,
how came you here in the middle of all
these books ? "

E-E-E-Everest ! " stuttered Mr.

Fowler. " Well, I am delighted ! How
very ch-ch-ch- charming, to be sure; " and
he modestly held out his hand an inch
or two.

David seized it and grasped it.

Not taken to literature, have you ? "
he asked.

I  I am an as-as-as-assistant here,
junior assistant," replied Mr. Fowler.
C-c-come and see my place, won't you?
I left the P-p-probate Court and came
here f-f-four years ago."

Of course," said David, rising. " But
what about our friends here ? " he added,
pausing; for both the old man and the
attendant were apparently waiting for
them to say something.

"Oh, it's at-all right," said Mr. Fowler.
Jacobs, better get what Mr. Harold
wants. He is a n-n-new hand, sir; you
must excuse him," he added to the old
man, as the young one went off.

New hand," muttered the old man.

He is insolent, insolent. Because I
have an old coat on, they all think they
may insult me with impunity. As if a
gentleman has not a right to wear an
old coat if he likes. Insolent, insolent ;
they are all in a cabal against me. But
I will be even with them one day  even
with them one day. I'll make it a
matter for parliamentary inquiry. As if
a gentleman might not wear an old coat !
A coat does not make a gentleman ! "

And they left the angry old man
muttering to himself.

Curious old fellow," was David's
remark.

Y-ye-yes. He is very much to be
pitied, I believe," said little Fowler,
unlocking a private door in the wall, and
ushering his companion into what looked
like a series of immense iron cages filled
with books, and piled one above the other
for several stories. " He lodges in the
same house that I do, and has a little

girl. He is, or thinks he is, heir to
some property, I believe. This is the
i-i-iron work, you see ; my place is through
here and down below. I  I  I really
am delighted to see yon, Everest."

David nodded.

You must look me up," he said.

Mr. Fowler blushed with delight. His
visit to David's home had been the only
visit he had ever made in his life. He
had not been a clever boy at school, and
though he was some years older than
David, the latter had been ahead of him
when he left school; besides this, David's
half-contemptuous kindness, being the
only kindness he had ever received, had
made a lasting impression on Mr. Fowler,
and he regarded David as among the
cleverest and kindest of mankind, and
had often longed to meet him again ; but
he had not heard anything of him since
his visit to Broodleigh, for David never
answered letters if he could help it.

"I  I  I shall be most happy," he
stammered. " M-my address is No. 16,
Harcourt Street. If you will come and
see me, I  I shall be only too delighted ! "

David laughed as he leaned against
Mr. Fowler's table.

That is rather a joke," he remarked,
"for I am lodging in No. 16, Harcourt
Street."

Y-you don't say so ? Well, that is
delightful!"

"Just so," said David; "and our
friend the patriarch makes us a cheerful
trio. What do you do down here ?
Play at pitch and toss with the specimens,
or be an amateur Adam and name
the stones of the earth and the shells of
the sea?"

"Oh dear, no!" cried Mr. Fowler,
quite aghast. "I am only a j-j-j-junior,
you know. I register the acquisitions,
and do very little classification."

It must be a lively lot of acquisitions,

to judge from the specimens, " said David,
looking with an air of great disgust upon
a heap of odds and ends of natural history
on the table ; and he seated himself upon
what might, or might not, have been a
valuable relic of the prae-Adamite period.

E-e-excuse me, Everest, my dear
fellow," cried Mr. Fowler, in an agony of
apprehension, as David stretched out his
long legs, " b-b-but I  I believe  I am
afraid, that is, that  that is a most in-uninteresting
specimen of  of palaeozoic
fauna."

It must be dead by this time,"
observed David, soothingly, " so I can't
hurt its feelings."

I  I dare say, my dear fellow ; b-b-but
it might get us into all sorts of complications.
There was a man here once  a
v-v-very nice fellow  and a friend came to
see him, and most u-un-unfortunately he
sat down upon a case of b-b-butterflies,
and of course they all s-s-smashed directly ;

and the man who was in charge commended
them, and did it very cleverly, I
as-as-assure you, b-b-but somehow he got
the wrong wings on to the wrong
bodies, and it m-m-made quite a sensation
in the e-e-entomological world  until they
found out what had happened."

Well, I have no enthusiasm about
antediluvian oysters," said David, getting
up ; " but if you could tell me anything
about liturgies, now that would be interesting."


I  I  I don't know anything about
them myself," said Mr. Fowler, " but
there is a m-m-man in the Manuscript
Department who knows all about them.
He generally catalogues modern state
papers. I  I  I can introduce you to
him."

Thanks," said David; " but I have
made his acquaintance already. The
Superintendent of the Reading-room
knows everything in the world except



liturgies, and this man knows all about
them, so they form an encyclopaedia
of useful knowledge between them. But
I must go off now. I'll look you up
to-night." And David departed to his
books.

Oh, Miss 'Echard, Mr. Heverest's compliments,
and he'll be glad to know if the
coffin is nearly nailed np."

This from Sarah Ann, who, with a
grimy apron before her mouth, opened
the artist's door, and thrust her head in
one February evening.

Lor ! " said Miss Hatchard. " Well,
I never ; a coffin ! I suppose it's 'is fun,
though I can't say I see much fun in
coffins myself; but there, I must pack
these pictures to-night. Tell him "

But Sarah Ann was gone, not considering
it her business to carry messages from
the second-floor lodger.

"I suppose nailing is disturbing jest

over your head," sighed the poor little
woman; " but, then, what can I do ? If
I don't send off these pictures to-night,
Moses won't take 'em, I'm sure."

Shall I go and tell him we shall not
be very long ? " asked Fiametta, who was
kneeling on the floor beside a half-finished
packing-case.

Well, if you would, my dear. If you
don't mind, that is."

"I don't mind a bit," said the girl,
rising. "I shall rather like it. What
business has he to complain of noise ? I
dare say he does nothing but idle his
time. He is a gentleman, I suppose. If
he came up here and helped, it would be
some good ; " and Fiametta carried her
flashing head down the stairs.

She did not knock at the door. She
considered it derogatory to do so. So
she opened it in her decisive manner,
and, without advancing a step, she remarked


VOL. i. 10

"I have come to tell you that the
artist who lives upstairs is obliged to
pack up some pictures to-night ; and if
you don't like the noise and have nothing
to do, you had better go out until it is
over."

David looked up from his book and
gazed at the girl in the doorway in some
surprise. Perhaps the laughter in his
eyes angered her ; for she said 

I am not surprised at any gentleman
laughing at women who have hard work
to do. I expected that ; but we can't
stop our work to suit your dainty ears."

So you take me for a gentleman,"
said David, sweetly. " You have a very
quick perception to find that out at once.
But, like the rest of your sex, my dear,
you do not draw a truly logical deduction
from that premise. If you have any hardwork
to do, I shall come and help you
do it."

The girl blushed, and a curious baffled

expression came into her dark solemn
eyes. She looked a little uncomfortable,
and evidently did not know what to say.
Seeing him rise and come towards her,
she turned abruptly, and shut the door
after her and ran upstairs again.

He says he is coming to help," she
exclaimed, breathlessly, to Miss Hatchard.
But that was only a polite lie ; aristocrats
always lie to women."

So they do, my child," said David,
as he came to the top of the stairs.
They tell them they are angels; we
know better, don't we ? Madam, I am
rejoiced to hear that I was in error about
the coffin. If you will allow me to help
you nail up that box, I think it will be to
the advantage of all parties. Your sex
is admirable in many ways, but sound
carpentering is a privilege of the stronger
animal called man. Oblige me with the
hammer."

Well, I am sure," observed Miss ,

Hatchard, considerably mystified by the
stranger's address  "I am sure I am
very much obliged ; my nails never do go
in straight''

"For the simple reason, my dear
madam, that neither you nor any other
woman ever hit a nail, physically or
metaphorically, on the head. Now, let
us set to work."

And they did set to work, and a vast
amount of packing and nailing was accomplished
under David's direction and
assistance. When the last case was
securely finished, Miss Hatchard tendered
her thanks.

I am very glad to have been of use to
you," he said. " Any time that you want
anything done, except painting a picture,
I am at your service  even to speaking
the truth, Miss Fiametta," he said, turning
to the girl, for he had learnt her
name.

She blushed and looked confused.

All men tell lies," she said.

"So, Heaven be praised ! do all women,"
said David, seriously. "It is a privilege
of the human race ; without it we should
be no better than the beasts. Good
evening, ladies ; " and he went downstairs.


"What a very odd little girl!" he
said to himself. " The daughter of the
one-coated patriarch who does not wash,
I suppose, and as full of fads as he is.
I like that sturdy little artist ; there is
no affectation of superiority with her.
She is the genuine article, as the Creator
made her, and has stuck to it."

What a affable young man ! " was
Miss Hatchard's comment, as David went
into his room ; " and such a gentleman ! "

"Why do you consider it is c affable '
in a strong young man to come and help
two women do hard man's work ? I think
it would have been brutal of him if he
had not come. If he had been a workingman

who was going to be paid for it, you
would not have considered him ' affable.'
It is just because he sets up for belonging
to a superior race that you do as everybody
does, and bow down before him, and
say, ' Oh, how amiable and good of you
to deign to cast a glance upon us poor
creatures ! Bah ! If Moses had sent a
man to pack those pictures, you would
not have thanked him."

Well, I dunno. You see, he would
have been paid for it," said Miss Hat-chart,
dubiously ; for the girl's fiery
speeches always made her a little nervous.

Fiametta bit her lip.

"And this man ought to have been
paid for it," she said.

Oh, you couldn't offer him no money,"
said the artist, aghast. " He is a gentleman
; he would be insulted. I wouldn't
say so to 'im for the world, and so kind
as he was ! "

He was not kind; it was only his

common duty," persisted Fiametta,
changing her ground. " But he ought
to be paid, or he will think he has conferred
a favour upon us."

Well, so he has," responded the elder
woman, as she took two teacups out of a
cupboard. " I ain't above taking favours.
Stay and have a cup o' tea, child ? "

No."

Lor, don't be so contrariwise."

"I didn't do the packing, and I won't
have the tea."

Well, do it out o' friendliness, then,
to keep me company ? "

No, Miss Hatchard," said the girl,
and there was a touch of sadness in her
tone, " I won't do that either. I can't
ask you back, and I have not done any
work for you to-day. Let me keep the
only thing I have got;" and she went
oat, and shut the door after her.

If I had that there father of hers,"
said Miss Hatchard to herself, as she

flourished the knife with which she was
catting bread and butter, " I'd.  I'd  I
dcrnno what I wouldn't do to 'im. Keeping
that 'ere fine girl hanging around with
no meat, nor no clothes, nor no nothing,
and all because of his fads and fancies.
Oh my, if I had the fashioning of
'im ! " and Miss Hatchard sliced off a
tremendous round of bread, as if it had
been the offending Mr. Thorold's head.

She sat over her tea a long time. Her
studio was a shabby, bare little place,
uncarpeted and uncurtained. There was
an easel, and a table covered with paints,
and scraps of paper, and nails, and bits of
dry crust, and all manners of odds and
ends. There were one or two chairs, and
some rough boxes, and rolls of paper,
and old canvasses, and unfinished drawings,
and rough sketches were piled in
the corners and fastened on the walls
and stacked under the table. There was
nothing picturesque or beautiful in the

place. It was a mere workshop, where
very ordinary work was ground out of a
very ordinary little woman at a remarkably
cheap rate.

Miss Hatchard designed wall papers,
patterns for chintz and cretonnes, all
very third and fourth rate. Now and
then she painted panels for the Christmas
card kind of furniture that was just coming
in fashion, or designed Christmas cards
themselves, or inferior cheap stained
glass. All she did was very ordinary and
cheap, yet as good as she could make it ;
and perhaps in all London there was nota
busier, brighter, more helpful, contented,
underpaid little woman than Miss
Hatchard.

She thought a good deal about the girl
who had left her. She had little time to
bestow on the wants or fancies of any
girl. Her own hard life was quite enough
to occupy her attention, yet she did
spend a good deal of time thinking about

Eiametta. Nay, she did better than that,
she helped her. Silver and gold had she
none, but such as she had she gave her.

It was a good deal for the solitary,
brooding child to have the studio to come
to after the dreadful garret, where so
much of her existence had been passed ;
it was still more for her to have Miss
Hatchard's bright little presence, and to
hear her kindly chatter. Her grammar
might not be above reproach, her pronunciation
was very far from correct ; yet
she was, on the whole, a most excellent
companion for the morbid girl. She
would get nothing morbid from the artist.

Now and then when she had a figure to
paint, Fiametta stood for her, and when
she had done this, she consented to partake
of a meal as payment for the same,
but otherwise she would never so much
as break bread in the little room.

Miss Hatchard had many a time debated
within her mind the advisability of

her attacking the stronghold, that is to
say, encountering Mr. Thorold, and trying
to persuade him to allow the girl to do
what she most desired, namely, to work
for her living ; but hitherto she had
not done so. She was not fond of interfering
in other people's affairs, but pity
for the lonely, wasted life was urging
her on.

To-night the unusual sadness in Fia-meta's
voice had decided her. She knew
the girl was hungry, and had been hungry
all day, for her father had left no money
behind him that morning. He w T as out
late that evening. Was it possible that
the girl would have to go hungry to
bed?

Miss  Hatchard could not bear the
thought. She set her door a little open,
and sat and listened. It was dark. She
heard a slow, heavy footfall at the foot of
the stairs ; she knew the step, it was old
Mr. Thorold's. She waited until he came

to the landing outside her room, and then
opened the door wide and confronted him.

"If so be as I shouldn't hinder you
with Fiametta's supper," she began, " I
should like a word with you, sir."

Eh, who is it ? " he said, peering into
the dusk. " Is it Miss Hatchard ? " He
had heard a little about her from his
daughter, but had never spoken to her
before.

Yes ; it's me," said the owner of the
name. "Will you step in? Now, look
around 'ere. I've a decent roof over my
head  two roofs, t'other second back across
the landing  enough to eat and enough to
wear, and a shilling' or two over sometimes,
though that's not often ; and who
'ave I got to thank for it ? Myself ; that's
all about it, that is. I works for myself
and am beholden to nobody. Now, what
I can do another can do, perhaps better.
I don't hold myself up for no pattern, but
what I do say is this 'ere, if I can do this,

that fine girl of yours can do the same
and better.' '

The old man had stood listening with
some surprise to this little address ; he
had not understood the drift of it before
the last sentence, and that angered him.

"And you compare my daughter, the
child of a long line of illustrious ancestors,
to you" he said; " Miss Thorold, the last
of an old house, to a fifth-rate painter ina
garret ! "

"It ain't a garret," interposed the little
woman, eagerly. " Lor, Mr. Thorold,
don't be put out like: I don't mean no
comparisons, but I do say as a girl with
health and strength is better a earning of
her own living' than being dependant."

Miss Thorold is not dependent," said
her father, angrily. " She, we, are in
temporary difficulties just at present  mere
temporary difficulties. Miss Thorold is a
young lady of property, of family. You do
not understand what you are talking

about. Miss Thorold work ! Impossible,
ridiculous ! "

It ain't impossible for her to starve,"
said the artist, bluntly.

He trembled, and looked wildly about
him as if in terrified search for something
that he feared.

"No, no," he said, huskily; "it will
come before then. I am on the right
track, the right track now. But women
have no patience, no patience at all. Has
she been complaining to you ? " he asked
fiercely.

Lor, no," replied Miss Hatchard; "she
don't never make no complaint about
herself  about herself in particular, that
is. She ain't quite what you might call
contented. 'Ow should she be, been' in
idleness all her days ? " she added
astutely.

She will soon have plenty to do,
plenty to do," said the old man, turning
to go up the narrow garret stairs. " The

management of a large estate is not an
easy task, and she must learn to do it, for
she will be my sole heir. Everything I
have will go to her. But she must have
patience, patience," and he went on
muttering until he was hidden by the
winding stairs from Miss Hat chard's
view.

David's work at his office was not of a
very laborious nature. He was supposed
to be there at ten in the morning ; but as
David breakfasted at that hour, he found
it more convenient to get there at eleven
instead. This was not quite in accord
with the traditions of the place, so he
encountered some opposition on the part
of the superior officials before he could
get it established as a habit. But David's
imperturbable good temper and easy
nature stood him in as good stead in
this crisis as in many an encounter with
his mother. What was the use of rating
a man who smiled in a lovable manner at

every reproof, and acknowledged his errors,
and promised amendment with the same
cheerfulness that another man would take
an extra holiday, and immediately afterwards
would convulse his hearers with
laughter at some quaint remark or
humorous anecdote? It was not in the
nature even of officials to carry on that
sort of campaign many weeks, and
gradually they fell into the habit of all
good chiefs, and winked at what they
knew they had better not see.

This point being comfortably established,
David found out what was the
average amount of work done by the menin
his room, and performed his share. He
discovered that a great deal of attention
was paid to the sharpening of pencils and
the neat arrangement of papers in the
mornings. After that some figures were
added up, and deducted from, and turned
upside down and inside out, and fraction,
and divided, and halved, and

VOL. I. 11

quartered, and put through all the facings
that figures are capable of, preparatory to
being presented to the admiring gaze of
the general public.

There was an impression in the office
that the most intense anxiety prevailed
in the public mind with regard to the
weighty subject of registered statistics,
and that somehow or other the British
lion would roar in a very awful manner if
these interesting columns of figures were
not duly presented for his approval. The
author of this ingenious tradition has
never been discovered, but if he had been
a tribute of respect ought certainly to
have been paid to his memory, for doubtless
it was his beneficent invention that
kept many a young and promising civil
servant's intellect unimpaired by this
semblance of an interest in the awful
contortions of figures that were daily presented
to him.

David, who had about as much natural

love of figures as a torn cat has for a
terrier, was a good deal bored at first with
his work. Antiquaries are seldom good
mathematicians ; the combination is not a
happy one. Mathematics may surely be
considered an exact science; while antiquarianism,
besides not being a science at
all, is so notoriously inexact that no two
members of the profession have ever been
known to agree on any one subject since it
was first invented. Therefore David was
not happy among figures.

Yet he was not unhappy either. That
wise and beautiful fiction about the British
public, it is true, failed to touch him one
little bit. David cared no more for the
British public that it did for him. He had
actually no love even for the great unwashed
section of it. He had only one
feeling about them, namely, that he wished
they would keep away from wherever he
was; thus he was no politician, for all
shades of politicians love, or say they love,

the dirty three quarters of humanity. So
he derived no comfort from that source,
but his comfort came from outside his work.
He positively revelled among the books in
the British Museum. He read them there
all the time he could, and read his notes of
them at home in the evenings, and worked
out most beautiful and interesting details
about the connection between the obscure
Ephesine family of liturgies and the
Hispano-Gallican service books, as exemplified
in the Mozarabic rite and the
fragments of the ancient use of France, as
well as a theory of his own, highly interesting
and grandly original, on the
subject of the primitive form of liturgy
established by the apostles before their
separation, evolved from a comparative
study of all extant modes of Christian
worship. If these things will not console
a man for playing hide and seek with
figures for five hours a day, that man must
indeed be dead to human joys.

So Mrs. Everest's well-meant efforts
failed ; and David was happy, very happy,
and wrote such letters to his uncle that
the old man seemed to have taken out
a new lease of life, so proud was he of
his nephew. And as for Fanny, David
thought no more about her in the
way of love than he did of his uncle's
sermons. Yet he did think of Fanny,
too. Even liturgies and statistics do not
make up for the lack of fresh air. Country
bred David found the foggy streets and
Stirling rooms oppressive in March, after
three months of London life. In the
evenings after he came back from the
Museum he felt the need of fresh air.
The nearest place where an imitation of the
sort was offered to the public was Regent's
Park, and thither David used to go after
he had finished his tea in the evenings.

He had never objected to solitary walks
in the country, indeed, Fanny's enforced
presence had greatly bored him at first,

but of late, as we know, he had found hera
very useful grindstone on which to
sharpen his wits. He would soon have
got used to walking hy himself in quiet
lanes, no doubt, but the crowds that throng
every part of the Eegent's Park at sunset
made him feel more lonely than ever.
He could not think with a stream of
people constantly passing him, but he
could talk if he had anybody to talk to.
He tried asking little Fowler for a night
or two to accompany him, but Mr.
Fowler's one idea of conversation at present
was the perfection of the divine
Nellie, and David found that, on the
whole, he preferred loneliness to the nine
hundredth repetition of the goddess's attributes,
so but for an accident he might
have walked his walks to the lonely end.

He met Fiametta as he was coming
out of his room one glowing evening in
March. She had been out to post a letter
for Miss Hatchard, and was looking pale

and heavy-eyed, as though she had been
crying.

What is the matter, my dear ? " said
David to her, kindly. He always treated
her as a little girl, arguing from the
masculine premise that any female who
wore frocks over the tops of her boots
must be a little girl, however tall she
might be.

Nothing is the matter," said the
girl.

Now we can talk face to face. You
told me I was a liar, you remember;
permit me to insinuate that you deviate
from the truth. You know you have a
headache ; I can see it in your eyes."

The girl's eyes flashed as he said this.
It was curious to watch the sudden
lighting up of the dark, sullen caverns
and the equally rapid disappearance of
the wrathful brilliancy.

It is nothing to you if I have," she
said.

Well, no ; and mine is nothing to
you," said David, with a sigh, half turning
to go down the stairs. " I was
hoping you would help me get rid of
mine. I suffer frightfully from headache ;

but there, it's nothing to Good

evening, Miss Fiametta ; " and David's
blue eyes gave a mournful glance upwards
from under their long lashes.

Fiametta hesitated. She had passed
him, and was standing some few stairs
above him. She saw the pathetic look,
as David intended she should do. She
paused in her upward movement, and
a swift rush of red dyed her face. She
seemed uncertain what to do.

"I was just trying to crawl out for a
little," said David, gently. "I feel the
want of fresh air so frightfully here ; but
the streets and parks are so full of people
it makes me melancholy to go among
them by myself, and being melancholy
increases my headache. But in London

nobody cares to take pity on a stranger.
Good night."

Fiametta came down a step or two.

Have you nobody to go with you ? "
she asked.

"No, nobody at all," he answered

mournfully; "unless " He smiled

and looked up.

"I will come if you like," she said
hastily.

He took her hand and tucked it under
his arm.

That's right," he said ; " come along."

"You have taken me in," she said,
trying to get her hand free. "I don't
believe you have a headache at all. You
are insulting me ; " and she struggled to
get away from him.

Upon my word and honour," he said,
stopping in the street, and laying his
other hand upon hers that was still within
his arm, while he looked straight into her
eyes, " I shall be sincerely obliged to you

if you will come for a walk with me. I
am really lonely, and I should like your
company, my child."

She blushed again, but looked him
steadily in the face.

Won't you be friends with me, little
girl ? " he said tenderly.

You don't really want me for a
friend," she said. " What good can I be
to you ? I am poor and friendless ; you
are a gentleman, with rich relations and
friends and money. I am not rich, and
would not be if I could."

Neither am I?" he said. " Shall I
tell you about my people ? "
If you like."

Very well, then. Here beginner the
first chapter of the history of David.
Ahem ! Excuse me, my dear, old habits
are not easily broken ; for many years I
have read the first and second lessons at
morning service. Well, to continue,
I will tell you all about me, and you

shall tell me all about you." And David
and his new friend were among the last
to leave the inner park that evening
before the gates were shut.

Where ever 'ave you been, Fia-meta?"
said Miss Hatchard, coming out
of her studio in the dusk of the spring
night, as she heard the girl coming up
the stairs.

For a walk in the park with Mr.
Everest," replied the girl, pausing before
the door.

"Lor! Well, I never! Did he ask
you to go ? "

Do you suppose I should have gone
otherwise? "

Well, no ; I don't suppose you would.
But what did he ask you for ? "

Because I happened to be on the
stairs when he was going out, and he
wanted somebody to talk to; anybody
would have done."

Miss Hatchard looked inquisitively at

the girl. There was not a trace of colour
or embarrassment upon her face.

Lor ! " ejaculated that lady ; " and
what 'full your par say ? "

What he likes. I am old enough to
choose my own walks and my own companions.
Besides, he will consider that
Mr. Everest is the only person in the
house who is really fit to speak to me.
Don't you know that he is a gentleman,
and I am a lady? "

Yes ; but then your par may say
that for a young gent and a young lady
to go walking about ain't "

"Bah! " said the girl, with such disgust
in her tone that it made the little artist
jump. Fiametta slowly lifted her hand,
and a glitter like steel came into her
Italian eyes. "Do you see," she said, " if
by keeping my hand up for a second I
could save his or any aristocrat's head from
the noose  which is more ignominious
than the block  T would bring it down

so ; " and she let ifc fall on the banisters
with a blow that made the crazy rail
rattle. Then, without waiting for a
reply, went rapidly upstairs into the
garret.

Her father was sitting there turning
over and over his scraps of paper upon
the table, and jotting down notes in the
corners of them, and being generally
employed in making himself believe he
was busy.

Fiametta, my child, I am getting on
now, getting on. We shall soon establish
our claim now, my dear. 5 '

I have no claim," she said, " on anybody,
but on the earth for room, and the
sky for air, and from others the right and
the means to live."

Ay, ay," he answered, not listening
to what she said, "we are getting on
now, getting on. Yet, Fiametta, we will
deal tenderly with your cousin, deal
tenderly. He has kept us out of our

inheritance and turned his face from us ;
he has low blood in his veins ; his father
married beneath him, poor fellow, so he
cannot help it. We will show that weare
of the good old stock by our magnanimity
; we will deal tenderly with
him, deal tenderly."

I will deal tenderly with no man who
has oppressed the ignorant and poor,"
said the girl fiercely. " I will deal
tenderly with no man who has usurped
the common earth of his brethren and
piled up riches with other men's lives.
Such men do not deserve to live."

Ha, ha, ha ! " chuckled the old mana
There speaks her mother's child  no
forgiveness in the Vercelli line. Hatreds
handed down from father to son, and
father to son. From old Michele Yercello
down to his great-great-grandson the feud
with the House of G-onzaga went on. Ah,
it is a fine thing to go back to our
ancestors in that way, and to account for

things that in common people would only
be accidental or eccentric. Ha ! a fine
thing, a very fine thing. So you will
not be tender to our cousin. Eh, my
Fiametta?"

"No," she said, "I will not. I will
be tender to no man. The days for
tenderness are past."

A fine girl, a fine girl, but with a
little craze in her head," he said, looking
after her as she went into the inner garret
and shut the door. " That comes from
her mother's family, too, poor thing ; the
Vercelli were always a little excitable.
There was never anything of that sort
with the Thorolds  never; always a
clear-headed, practical race  always ; "
and the old man fell to brooding over his
papers again.

David found his walk with Fiametta so
agreeable that the following evening he
determined to repeat the experiment.
With this intention he presented himself
in Miss Hatchard's studio, and asked to
be allowed to come in and look at her
pictures. Permission, of course, was
readily granted, and David was soon
ensconced in the only easy chair in the
apartment; while the little artist made
the most of the remaining light, and went
on with her work of designing a wallpaper
from a very melancholy specimen
of draggled ivy that stood in a jug on
the table.

Miss Hatchard was not much delighted
to see her visitor. She had been much
struck by David's appearance on the
night of his first introduction of himself
to her ; he had interested her from the first
moment, but not altogether pleasantly.
She seemed to have some haunting recollection
of his face, yet she was perfectly
certain that she had never seen him
before ; but every now and then some
glance of his sleepy eyes, or some expression
about his mouth, would send a
thrill of recollection through her. Having
plenty of time to think, she pondered
over it a good deal, but she could in nowise
remember anything that afforded
a clue to the mystery ; and to-night, ashe
sat leaning back in her easy chair
in full enjoyment of his laziness, she
was so impressed by his resemblance
to some one whom she remembered
that she could not help asking him a
question.

VOL. I. 12

"You ain't never been in London
before, 'ave you ? " she inquired.

Not since I was a very little boy,"
he replied.

Ah, then, I can't have met you anywhere
; it seems, too, as if I'd seen you
before."

"It is your artistic conception of the
beautiful realized," said David, languidly.
By the way, what has become of
that little red-haired girl I saw here
before?"

She ain't so little ; she is almost as
tall as you," said Miss Hatchard, not
altogether pleased at her visitor's way
of speaking of the girl she had such an
affection for. " Besides, she is past sixteen,
and, lor, when I was sixteen I was
a woman ! " And Miss Hatchard sighed
heavily, as if the recollection of some
great trouble occurred to her.

She wears short frocks," said David,
so she must be a little girl. Also she

is a little girl in her ways. Do you know
where she is to-night ? "

Gone out, I believe," said Miss Hat-chart,
shortly.

Ah," said David, with a gentle sigh,
looking out of the window, "it is a fine
night for a walk, but I am very comfortable
here. I really think that, on the
whole, an open window high up is just as
good as going out. May I stay here a
little while ? "

Of course you may, and glad of your
company," responded Miss Hatchard,
completely vanquished by David's tender
melancholy. " Are you sure you're
comfortable ? "

"Very, thank you. There is one, only
one, other addition that could possibly be
made to my comfort at the present
moment. I am very happy looking at
you paint and talking to you, but 
but "

"I know what you mean," said the

artist, laughing-''it's tobacco you're
after. Lor, I don't mind smoke. Bless
you, I ain't been able to see across this
room sometimes when young Moses drops
in about a panel or two."

Miss Hatchard, from this moment I
am your slave. You are the only sensible
woman I have ever met. With your kind
permission I will light my pipe ; " and
David did so, and for a few moments was
too thoroughly occupied in enjoying it to
offer any further remarks on any subject.
But it was not in David's nature to
remain silent long when he had a woman
to talk to. He liked talking to women
at this period of his existence better than
to men, his uncle excepted. Women had
few theories of their own to oppose to
his, and David did not like being contradicted,
and if they were bored they did
not show it so readily as men did. But
to-night he was not inclined to talk of
his work so much as of himself.

My respected mother," he said between
the whiffs of his pipe as he watched
the smoke curl lazily about him  " my
respected, I may say, venerated mamma,
has an insuperable objection to tobacco.
I do not know how it is, but most worthy
mammas appear to labour under an hallucination
that tobacco is injurious to their
offspring."

11 1 suppose because it so often leads to
drink," said Miss Hatchard, putting in
the leaves of her spray, " and drink, you
know, ain't good for nobody."

"I don't know about that," said David.
What is the cause of most of the
poverty of our great towns ? Drink.
Well, suppose the working man did not
drink, did not get out of work, did not
get imprisoned, did not die young,  what
would become of all the steady men who
now get good wages and thrive ? The
market would be overstocked, price of
labour would go down. It would be an
awful thing."

"Lor!" said Miss Hatch ard, pausing
in her work, " I never thought o' that."

No more you never ought," said the
philosopher with the pipe, " because it's
humbug."

This unexpected reply gave a little
check to the conversation ; for Miss Hat-chart
felt mystified, and David was too
lazily enjoying himself to say anything.
Presently he began  

Our young friend with the red hair."

It ain't so red," interposed Miss
Hatchard. "When the sun gets it it's
quite golden."

Ah, that's how it is with you artists,
you see beauty in everything," sighed
David. " Nobody ever discovered before
that I was an incarnation of the beautiful,
though, in justice to my own intellect,
I must say I always had a faint idea of
the sort myself. Happy artist ! Can't
you teach me to see that red hair is
golden?"

Miss Hatchard looked queerly at him,
but did not answer.

Then," pursued David, meditatively,
I might even come to regard freckles
as beauty spots, and a lanky figure as
truly graceful. Won't you teach me ? "

There ain't no need for you to learn,"
said Miss Hatchard. " You're a quiz,
you are. 'Ave you got any sisters ? "

No ; I am the last of my race. Melancholy,
isn't it ?  at least it would be if I
had a i race ' like our friend Mr. Thorold.
I am an only son, the pride and joy of my
mother, of course. On second thoughts,
though, I have a sort of sister, only she
is not a sister  a ward of my uncle's.
Two tender floweret brought up beside
a running stream  you know the style
of thing  all simplicity and innocence.
You can imagine what she is like from
me, only I excel in beauty as she excels
in intellect."

"I suppose you mean you're lovers,"

said Miss Hatchard, who was a good deal
puzzled by David's manner of expressing
himself.

I am too innocent to know what such
things mean," said David, knocking the
ashes out of his pipe. " I should say
she couldn't help being in love with me,
should not you ? "

Miss Hatchard laughed.

You are the barest-faced piece of
conceit I ever see," she exclaimed. " But
I suppose she is," she added, looking
rather anxiously at her guest, as though
she was very desirous of getting a true
answer to her question.

We were made for each other," said
David between his teeth, in the full enjoyment
of his pipe, and leaning back at full
length in the chair; " destined by the
hand of a beneficent Providence for each
other. The beautiful economy of nature
abhors a vacuum, so as I have no money
she endows me with three thousand a

year. As I before remarked, I bring
beauty and grace. The union would be a
very happy one. Don't you think so ? "

Well, money is very 'andy," said
Miss Hatchard, slowly, "very 'andy; but
I 'ope you ain't going to marry her for
that alone."

"Didn't I tell you we were made for
each other, connected by the holiest
bonds of childhood's associations? She
and I have picked primroses together.
Once we robbed a neighbouring strawberry
garden. She habitually laced my
boots for me, and once  blessed and
ever-to-be-hallowed memory  she blacked
them."

Lor, why didn't you do it yourself? "
ejaculated the artist.

The circumstances were peculiar,"
said David, thoughtfully. " We were
going for a drive with my mother, and
were in our best rig, of course. With
the habitual carelessness of childhood, I

went into the garden and filled my
pockets with gooseberries. The ground
was damp. The result may be imagined.
Maternal wrath was on the horizon.
She, like a good angel, got the blacking
brushes, and averted the disaster.
I am sorry to say that a light silk dress
suffered in the encounter. If these tender
reminiscences don't bind two ardent and
youthful souls together, what will ? "

"And when are you going to be
married ? " inquired Miss Hatchard,
dubiously.

The Lord forbid ! " said David, sitting
bolt upright, and almost dropping his
pipe, and gazing with horror-struck
features at the little artist, who had laid
aside her brushes and palette, and was
sitting opposite him in the dusk.

Lor, I suppose you mean to be
married some time," responded Miss
Hatchard, rather amazed.

David slowly rose, knocked the ashes

out of his pipe, held out his hand, and
said in a slow, pathetic voice 

Good night, Miss Hatchard. Don't
let the weight of your cruel words keep
you awake in the night hours. Forme

Ah, well, good night. Nothing

short of Sanscrit will do for me after
this."

Oh dear, I didn't mean nothing," said
Miss Hatchard, quite conscience stricken.

"I know you did not," said David,
tenderly, pressing her hand. " It's my
misfortune in being so delicately organized.
I shall come again, if you will allow me,
some other night. Good night." And
with a forgiving smile upon his suffering
features David left the room.

I can't make that young man out
noways," said Miss Hatchard, rubbing
her nose with vexation. " Howsoever,
one thing is clear  he is engaged to that
young heiress, little as he likes to own toit.
Oh, why is men so deceitful ? Why

couldn't he say straight out there's a
young woman and I loves her, instead of
talking all 'is nonsense about recollections
and such like. One thing I will look out
for  that dear girl shan't be took in by
him ; she shall be put up to 'im. Oh, if
it weren't for they deceitful men how
happy women could be ! " and Miss
Hatchard was lost in painful reminiscences
until she was startled by a knock at her
door.

Come in," she cried; and Fiametta
entered.

Lor, my dear, I am glad you are
come. Wherever 'ave you been all the
evening ? ' '

For a walk," said the girl. " I didn't
want Mr. Everest to think I waited for
him to ask me again, so I went out before
he came in."

And right you are, my dear," said the
little woman, delighted. " For Mr.
Heverest has been here all the evening,

smoking ; and he came up here after you,
I am sure. Oh, my dear, the ways of men
is awful wicked and deceitful ; but I 'ave
found him out in time."

What do you mean ? "

"Why, ses this 'ere, my dear: don't
you be took in with his speeches and his
glances and all that, for he don't mean
nothing by it. He is engaged to a young
lady down at 'is 'one ; a rich young lady,
with three thousand a year ; so don't you
mind nothing of what he says to you.
Oh, my dear, you are young, and do be
warned in time."

The little woman was quite excited ; she
clasped her thin hands, and the tears stood
in her little keen eyes as she glanced into
the girl's face.

What do you take me for?" asked
Fiainetta, scornfully. " Do you think I
cannot speak to a young man without
thinking of love ? Do you think I am
such a poor dolt as to believe in that worn-out

old delusion called love ? I despise
any man or woman who tells me that he
or she is in love. I don't believe it exists.
It is all of a piece with religion and property
and class rights, and belongs to the
ages of man's darkness and ignorance.
Don't even talk to me of such lying
fallacies."

Oh, Lor ! " cried the artist ; " oh, lor,
my dear. Wherever did you get such
'horrid, sinful notions ? "

Fiametta smiled contemptuously.

From books I have read, and meetings
I have attended," she replied. " Do you
suppose because my father will not let me
work that, therefore, I have been idle in
every way? Do you suppose I have
walked about the streets and seen the
scenes that I have seen for nothing ?
Have I not seen what men and women
have been driven to in this city by the
greed of those above them ? Don't I know
the police courts, and the refuges, and the

IN LONDON TOWN. 191

low haunts of London, where my brothers
and sisters are hounded and persecuted
and hunted down to death by those above
them? Oh, and when I know all this,
you come and talk to me of love ! There
is no love in the world ; it has been
crushed out by greed and crime and
wealth. Oh, it will never return in your
time or in mine ! " And, overcome by
the passion in her heart, Fiametta sank
her head upon her arms, and turned and
leaned against the door.

Miss Hatchard stood amazed in the
middle of the room. She had never had
the faintest idea of the real state of
Fiametta's mind. She had treated her
muttered complaints and general discontent
as the natural results of her poverty-stricken
life. She had never guessed at
the thoughts that surged in the girl's
mind, and that made even the sunshine a
blackness to her, because it shone on the
evil and the good alike.

She looked at Fiametta as she stood
leaning against the door, with one arm
across her face, as a child shields its eyes
from the gaze of a curious passer-by. She
was trembling with emotion ; and a sob,
half womanly, half childish, burst from
her lips. It was difficult to know how to
treat her  whether to scold her and to
send her to bed, or to soothe and pity her.
Miss Hatchard choose a middle course.

I dunno how you can stand there and
say such things," she said gravely. "I
know as you've 'ad a rough time of it, no
money, nor fun like girls like to have ;
but ye're no right to say there's no love
in the world, w T hen you think of what your
father is doing for you, night and day."

Fiametta slowly dropped her arm ; she
was very white, and her eyes shone like
stars.

He does not do it for my sake," she
answered ; " he would do the same if I
were dead. He has the pride of race in

his heart ; he loves his family name, if he
loves anything. I am but a peg to hang
a name upon. Don't you know that he
has made his will, and that when the
estates come to me, which they never
will, my husband is to take my name ? "

Lor ! " said the artist ; " well, he is a
far-seen' old gent, to be sure. But ye're
very hard upon him, Fiametta, to say ashe
don't love you."

I am glad he does not," said the girl,
shortly; "it would only be one more
wrong in the world if he did ; for to love
any one person in particular defrauds
humanity of another little portion of that
general love that all men should have for
each other. To love one person means
that you will sacrifice others for that one
person's benefit. It is wicked even to talk
of such a thing."

Go to bed with you ! " said the little
artist, tartly; " and I wish I was your
ma, to give you a good whipping for

VOL. I. 13

IN LONDON TOWN.

talking of what you don't know nothing
about."

"I know that I will never love anybody,"
said the girl, shaking her red mane
defiantly, as she marched out of the room.
Never, never, never ! "

Mk. Fowler was standing in the portico
of the British Museum one day in April,
feeling as melancholy as a good little
man with a firm faith in Providence can
feel. He had had a very trying day.
A superior official, and a very awful one,
had come down with all his eloquence on
our poor little friend's head that day, and
had made things very uncomfortable
indeed for him. The threat of having his
rise of pay stopped was sufficiently awful
in itself, and the knowledge that a few
more of these scenes would end in dismissal
nearly frightened him to death.
And for the life of him Mr. Fowler could

not discover what he had done wrong.
He had a vague idea that he had sent in
his work as usual, and had had it returned
a perfect network of scratches ; but what
the scratches were for, or where he had
been wrong, he failed to discover, for the
chief having summoned him into his own
room, Mr. Fowler passed through a period
of annihilation with such success that his
very stammering forsook him, and he
came out perfectly speechless and devoid
of all power of recognition of anything.

After an hour or two's quiet he recovered
sufficiently to feel how miserable
he was, and that it was four o'clock. So
he changed his coat, and put on his hat,
and crawled dejectedly out into the portico
to find that it was raining heavily.

In his present despondent state, Mr.
Fowler did not care whether he got wet or
not ; but habit obliged him to pause and
open his umbrella, and as he did so in a
somewhat absent manner, he took a young

lady's bonnet off on one of the points.
So fearful a catastrophe as this brought
him to his senses in no time, and in a
perfect agony of blushes and contrition
Mr. Fowler turned to stammer out his
apologies, being far too much overcome
by his position to see whom he addressed.

Oh, it doesn't matter a bit, Mr.
Fowler ! " said a sweet, fresh voice, that
sent a thrill through him ; " the bonnet is
not hurt in the least."

M-m-miss Nellie," stammered Mr.
Fowler, " I n-n-n-never was so pleased
so miserable ; I m-m-mean, I am most
delighted to see you."

I have been in the reading-room,"
said the girl ; " and, oh, it does make my
head ache so ; and isn't this rain horrid,
just when I w r ant to go aw T ay ? "

In his soul Mr. Fowler blessed that rain
as he never had blessed any work of nature
before ; but he was human enough to
say

V-Y-very horrid; but it will c-c-clear
in a few minutes, I have no doubt. "

Nellie pouted, and looked at the clouds.

Will it ? " she said despairingly.

I  I  I am sure of it," gasped Mr.
Fowler. " But won't you come in out of
the d-d-d-damp ? "

Yes," said she, sighing. "I suppose
I ought to go and improve my mind by
looking at something somewhere. What
do you think is the least improving thing
I could look at here ? "

Mr. Fowler pondered deeply.

"I should say," he replied reflectively,
humming birds ; they don't do anything,
you know."

Oh yes, and they are pretty," said
Nellie, enthusiastically. " Do let us look
at those, only you will promise not to
tell me anything about the ' species,' or
their horrid names ? "

Oh, certainly not ! " cried Mr. Fowler,
all his troubles gone, and feeling in a

perfect ecstasy of delight as he went up
the broad, white steps to the Natural
History galleries with his pretty companion.
The superior officer and his
manners w T ere quite eclipsed by the fair-haired
girl in the blue bonnet.

"Oh, they are pretty!" Nellie exclaimed,
as they stood before one of the
cases containing Mr. Gould's beautifully
arranged groups of humming birds ; " they
realty look as if they were flying  don't
they? and the leaves and flowers and
everything ! "

"Th-they are b-b-b-beautifully done,"
said her companion.

Wouldn't they be sweet in a bonnet,"
sighed Nellie, as she moved on to another
case. " I wanted one in a bonnet
once, but aunt would not let me have
it. She belongs to a society for preventing
the destruction of birds for
fashionable purposes, or something of that
sort. But she has fowls for dinner, and I

don't see that that is any better do
you ? "

N-n-no," said Mr. Fowler, who would
have agreed to anything on earth that
Nellie said, except that the rain had
stopped. She did declare once that she
thought the sun had come out ; but the
rash young man perjured himself deeply
on the spot, and so they spent at least an
hour in wandering about the galleries and
chatting together, till at last Nellie declared
she must go, whether the rain had
stopped or not, or she would be late for
dinner, and that would make her aunt late
for a meeting that evening.

W-what sort of meeting ? " asked Mr.
Fowler, who had become very nearly at
his ease by this time.

"I am not sure if it's anti-vivisection,
or a debate on the necessity for abolishing
the House of Lords," returned his companion.
" I know it's something I don't
care a bit about, and I shall have to go

and listen to lots of long speeches. I
don't want to vivisect anybody; and the
only lord I ever saw, took the chair at a
meeting at our house once, and I never
saw such a fuss in my life as everybody
made of him. I thought aunt would
have gone crazy when she found he really
was coming, and all the other women
nearly fought to get introduced to him ;
so I don't see what they want to abolish
the House of Lords for."

Must you go ? " asked Mr. Fowler.

"Oh yes, I must," she replied, shaking
her pretty head. "Aunt says I am
criminally indifferent to all the burning
questions of the day; but I don't see
what good I should do by being interested
in them; however, I suppose
I shall be some day, if I go to meetings
enough."

I  I  I hope you won't be," said Mr.
Fowler, earnestly ; " I  I hope you
won't be."

cl Oh, you ought not to say that," she
said gravely. " I am very glad you don't
think me wicked not to care ; but you
ought not to encourage me in it, I am
afraid."

You're so m-m-m-much sweeter as
you are," said Mr. Fowler, frantically.
The audacity of this shameless avowal
kept him miserable for days afterwards.

Nellie blushed; that blush alternately
filled Mr. Fowler with bliss and rage
the whole night through. Then she
smiled, and said 

Oh, I must go; but I have enjoyed
the humming birds so much. Goodbye."


Good-bye," he replied. He was
plunged into the depths of misery by his
presumption and the thought of her
departure.

They went out into the portico together.
The sun was shining brightly, and all
traces of the rain clouds were past. Once

in the portico, it suddenly occurred to Mr.
Fowler that he might walk to the gate
with his companion. He did so in silence ;
but as 'they reached the iron portals, Nellie
turned to him, and, in a horror-stricken
voice, exclaimed 

Oh, what can I say to aunt about this
last hour? I have learnt nothing, absolutely
nothing ! "

Mr. Fowler gazed helplessly into her
eyes.

S-s-say you were talking to me,"
he faltered, " telling me about your
m-m-m-meetings."

Nellie's face brightened.

Oh, that will just do ! " she cried ;
but, then," she added, " aunt will think
you are bound to be interested in them,
and will send you heaps of papers about
them. She will want you to join societies.
Oh, you will have a frightful time ! "

"N-n-not at all," said Mr. Fowler,
rapidly. "I  I shall enjoy going to

any meetings where y-y-you go, Miss
Nellie."

Thus that unlucky young man plunged
headlong deeper and deeper into the
abyss. He had scarcely come up again
in time to receive Miss Nellie's grateful
smile, and to take her hand in his for one
brief delicious instant, when she was
gone, and he was plunged down deeper
than ever, and reduced to a state of semi-lunacy
by a combination of rough chief
and bewitching womanhood.

Nellie must have accounted for her
hour in a manner very satisfactory to her
aunt, for the next day a huge bundle of
papers was delivered by the postman to
Mr. Fowler's address at the Museum.
The messenger in the hall gave them to
him as he came out at four o'clock, and
Mr. Fowler's heart beat high and fast
as he recognized a lady's handwriting
on the wrapper.

The papers consisted of slips reprinted

from newspapers and magazines, leaflets
on anti-vivisection, anti-vaccination, anti-drink,
anti-aristocracy, anti-sense, ante
very thing that the mind of man can
conceive and the energy of woman try to
oppose.

They did not trouble Mr. Fowler very
much ; he cared infinitely more for the
wrapper than the papers. He kept them
all religiously as coming more or less
from Nellie, but he did not feel interested
in their contents, knowing perfectly well
that she did not care about them either ;
but he pored over her scrap of writing
that evening until he became a few
degrees more bewildered than he was to
begin with, and was only roused from his
reverie by David knocking at his door.

Got any lights?" said that hero.
They have a wonderful cat here, who
consumes my matches every day. I wish
you would secure her for your specimens.
I am sure her interior would afford an

interesting study. Halloo ! what have
you got to do with anti vivisection ? I'll
make a present of this cat to the president,
and lay you anything you like that he
will change sides after a fortnight."

Why, Everest, m-m-my dear fellow,
what has put you out so to-night ? "

"That cat," said David. "She has
eaten half a pound of tea, two eggs, a
box of sardines, some tooth powder, the
aforesaid matches, two bottles of beer,
and a cake of soap since yesterday. Such
animals ought not to be allowed to live.
They prey upon the human race to an
extent that is not justifiable."

"Ah, I see," said Mr. Fowler, simply,
you have no 1-1-1-lock on your sideboard.
I had none when I came, and afterwards,
when I had one put on, I did not find
things any better. But I have a c-c-c-cup-
board in my room, and I find things keep
all right there, only the lock is always
getting out of order."

I examined my sideboard," said David.
They don't tamper with the lock ; they
have a much simpler plan. The back is
hollow, and they just lift it out and
abstract from there."

Dear me, w-why that accounts for my
missing things even when I 1-1-1-locked
the doors," said Mr. Fowler, in astonishment.
" Well, how very ingenious people
are, to be sure ! Now, I should never
have thought of that."

What are those papers for?" asked
David. " Pipe-lights ? "

Oh dear, no," said Mr. Fowler,
reddening ; " th-thither are most interesting,
I assure you. I  I  I think of
attending some of the meetings. I  I  I
I am very much interested in these
subjects."

Faith," said David, calmly, " has
been admirably defined by an intelligent
school-girl as the faculty for believing
that which we know to be untrue.

I believe you, therefore, Fowler, of
course."

W-w-w-well," said Mr. Fowler, turning
to such a deep crimson that the whites
of his eyes were quite startling by contrast,
" I  I don't know much ab-b-b-bout
them, but I have no doubt they are
interesting. Th-tithe fact is "

That a goddess will be present. I
quite follow you, my dear boy ; go on.
I can sleep quite comfortably under it
now."

I  I  I really mean to go," said Mr.
Fowler. " W- won't you c-c-c-come too,
Everest ? I  I am sure you will n-never
laugh again."

I can quite imagine that," said David,
seriously.

N-n-no, no ; I mean laugh at her
again. Everest, you really are so very
quick."

My dear boy," said David, taking his
pipe from his mouth and looking earnestly



at his companion, " I never laughed at
women yet. They are far too serious
elements of discomfort to be treated with
levity."

VOL. I.



"Will you, won't you, will you come
and see the sunset ? " said David to
Kametta one evening, not long after he
had been in Miss Hatchard's studio.

"I don't care about sunsets," she
answered.

Then you can look at me instead,
and watch the rosy glow from the west
illumine the stately splendour of my expressive
features. I am sure it will repay
you the trouble of coming."

It would not be any trouble to come,"
she said dubiously; "but I don't see
why I should minister to your pleasures.
You do nothing for other people."

She made a melancholy picture as she
said this in her soft young voice. There
was a troubled look, that belonged to
fretted middle age rather than to girlhood,
in her dark eyes. They seemed to
have no light from within, but to lie like
pools in a deep cavern, waiting for some
radiance from without. The creamy tint
of her cheeks had not even the faintest
flush of rose, her dark eyes, her lips, and
her tangled mass of crisp, burning hair
alone had any warmth of colour in them.
Any one better acquainted with girls than
David would have seen promise of rare
beauty in her oval face and long thin
figure. She was at her most awkward
age now, but even in spite of this she was
not absolutely ungraceful ; though her
short lilac cotton frock and her cheap
ill-fitting boots put the very worst possible
construction upon her undeveloped
figure.

David only saw in her a brooding,

unhappy girl, who had a wretched life
of grinding poverty and helpless pride ;
an awkward ungainly girl, with no grace
of manners or speech, and no knowledge
of the ordinary courtesies of life common
among gentlefolks  a complete contrast
to well-bred Fanny, with her drawing-room
graces. David was sorry for her;
he felt a kind of protecting pity for
all helpless things, though he rarely concerned
himself much about them ; but it
suited him to make friends with this girl,
for he honestly believed that he might
brighten her life for her a little, so he
systematically took no notice of her rude
speeches, but continued his efforts to
amuse her.

You do nothing for other people,"
she had said, and had looked down upon
him with her soft sad eyes.

David did not often question the expediency
of his wishes. He did not do
so now, when he came up the steps

between them, put his arm round her
waist and kissed her.

"You ridiculous little girl! " he said.
How can I do anything for anybody if
you thwart me in my very first efforts ?
Here am I trying to improve your health
and spirits, and you check me at every
turn. You will never have any success
with your pupils if you treat them in that
way."

She had blushed hotly and quickly
when his lips touched her cheek, but
the red faded away as rapidly as it had
come.

"You had no right to do that," she
said, with something of a tremble upon
her lips.

Yes, I had, every right," said David
the undaunted. " Are we not all brothers
and sisters ? " He knew her socialistic
tendencies, and turned them to his own
account in the most unblushing manner.
I thought "  with a tender reproach in

his tone  "that you and I might be
really that best of all possible things 
perfect friends, without any nonsense of
flirtation or that sort of thing." And he
paused for a reply.

She was silent for some time, looking
up into his face as he stood beside her
with something of the fear of a hunted
wild animal in her beautiful eyes. Gradually
the fear gave place to a wistful yearning
that was half reproach, half longing ;
but she did not lower them, only looked
into his eyes as a light slowly gathered in
her own. David could bear it no longer ;
he stooped and kissed her lips.

You agree, dear little friend?" he
said. " Now let us go for our walk."

She turned and went silently upstairs.

Will she come downstairs again ? "
thought David, as he waited for her.
Really, girls are moderately interesting
after all."

And David was so absorbed by the

profundity of his new discovery that
Fiametta was standing beside him before
he noticed her.

I am ready," she said.

Eh, so you are. I must get my
hat." And they went down the stairs
together and out into the streets.

They did not say much while they
crossed the dull, dusty squares and
monotonous respectable streets of Bloomsbury,
where the air felt as if it had passed
through the lungs of half London before
it got there. After they crossed the
Eusfcon Road and came into the low,
dirty streets on their way to Cambridge
Gate, Fiametta remarked 

I wonder if aristocrats ever come into
streets like these, and what they feel
when they do."

Just what I do," said David,  " a
yearning to get out again. What else
should they feel ? They have noses like
other people, you know."

Fiametta glanced scornfully at him.

Yes, I suppose they all talk in that
cold, sneering way of others' sufferings, as
you do."

I shouldn't wonder if they do. You
see l other people,' that is, people outside
one's acquaintance, don't concern one
much."

They ought," said the girl vehemently.
" The misery and suffering of
other people ought to affect you."

"Why?" asked David.

So that you might help them. Help
to break down the awful harriers that are
raised between the rich and the poor, todo
away with the tyranny of the strong
over the weak, to help forward the time
when all men shall be equal, when there
shall be no rich and no poor ? "

"With an equal redistribution of property
every Saturday night," said David.
Well, perhaps it wouldn't be such a bad
thing. I should run through all mine in

the week, and come up for a fresh supply
on Saturday. It would save one a great
deal of trouble ; for married men with
large families it would be a boon and a
blessing. Go on, my dear ; this is very
instructive."

"You are mocking me!" she cried,
turning upon him with a flash of anger.
You are cruel and scoffing."

"Not at all," said David, tucking her
hand into his arm; "but you must
remember that I have been brought up
among the upper classes, at least my
uncle, poor old fellow, is a gentleman of
good family. Don't despise him for it ; it
was managed absolutely without his consent
being asked ; he can't help it. So
you must make allowances for me, you
see. Here we are at the park. Now we
will find a nice grassy place, and I will
smoke, and you shall instruct."

After some trouble they discovered a
little knoll on the western side of the

great walk, that w r as tolerably free from
intruders. And here they settled themselves,
Fiametta sitting on the grass
looking towards the west, with the sunlight
turning her hair into rippling gold,
and David stretched at full length beside
her.

The hum of feet and voices, and the
multitudinous sounds of the great city
were in the air, but a blue haze hovered
among the trees, and lay over the villas
of St. John's Wood, and seemed to cut
them off from the streets. Overhead the
sky was golden and orange, and the sun
was sinking into a hazy nest of dull
crimsoned smoke in the west.

Well," said David, after along silence,
it's pretty comfortable, isn't it ? "

Yes," she said, with a long sigh.
And why should I be comfortable when
there are thousands of people there "  and
she waved her hand towards the east 
toiling, and miserable, and wretched? "

My poor little dear," said David,
raising himself on his elbow and looking
into her face, " why do you have such
thoughts?"

I can't help them, and I wouldn't if I
could."

"You would rather be miserable?"
asked David.

No," she said, angrily, " no ; I would
rather every one was happy. You know
what I mean."

You would rather, for instance, that
I was happy than miserable."

I don't care for you in particular. I
mean that every one ought to be happy,
and it is wicked for a few people to be
happy when millions are full of wretchedness.
I wish that you were unhappy,
very unhappy ; for then you might care a
little for others' misery, and so help to
make things right."

You will make me unhappy before you
have done," said David, reproachfully.

"I wish I could," she exclaimed vehemently.


By George ! I think you will if you goon
like this," he returned, as he resumed
his pipe. And then they both fell to
watching the sun sink slowly down into
the west. " Well, do you feel satisfied ? "
asked David, as the last of the crimson
clouds faded into purple. "You have
spoilt a splendid sunset for me, and taken
all the flavour out of three pipes of
tobacco. Very well for a beginning."

Another of those quick painful blushes
dyed the girl's face.

"I did not mean to do that," she
faltered.

To-morrow night," said David, " I
shall only smoke two pipes, the next
night one, the night after I shall sigh
very heavily, on the following night with
good luck I shall groan, by the end
of a week I shall be able to weep. You
have a very promising pupil."

Her dark, solemn eyes looked so
reproachfully at him that he did what he
ought not to have done, and stooped
under the shadow of the trees and kissed
her again.

"I don't mean that either," he said.
We won't talk nonsense any more.
Shall I tell you some more about my
home in Devonshire ? "
Yes," she said.

And so he told her of the old Rectory,
the tall trees that shadowed it, the roses
that crept about its windows, the flowers
in his mother's garden, the deep green
lanes, and the flowery meadows. Fia-meta
had never been in the country, and
her quick imagination was fired by his
descriptions. He noted the effect they had
upon her, how they drew her out of her
morbid self-communing, and prolonged
his bright account until they reached the
door of the house.

I did not know anything was like

that," she said with a sigh, as they went
up the stairs.

Come out tomorrow night and I will
tell you some more," said David ; "it
will make you so delightfully miserable
by contrast, you know, that it will be
criminal in you to resist. "What  won't
you wish me good night ? "

"No," she said angrily. "You are a
scoffer ! " And she vanished up the
stairs, all the memory of his bright
pictures of country life driven away by
his banter at the end.

She would not stop at Miss Hat chard's
door and speak to her, as she generally
did when she came in, but went straight
up into the garrets.

Her father was there as usual, sitting
at the little table with his papers before
him. He took no notice of her coming
in until she had placed some bread and
cheese on a plate beside him for his
supper, and then he bade her go to bed,
for it was late.

"I will go down and sit with Mr.
Everest while you take the candle into
your room," he said. "It is the last we
have, so put it outside the door when you
have finished with it."

"Mr. Everest," she repeated; "what
do you know of Mr. Everest ? "

The old man shuffled his papers about
nervously, and stammered a little in his
answer.

"I I, well, that is, Mr. Everest oh
yes, my dear, I met him in the Museum
one day. He reads there very regularly.
A very intelligent young man, a young
man worth cultivating. Don't forget
about the candle, my dear."

Mr, Everest reads when he comes in,"
said the girl. " You will hinder him if
you go down."

I shall not stay a moment. I have a
question I want to ask him. I have been
clown once to-night, but he was out.
Good night, my love, God bless you."

And the old man shambled out of the
apartment.

Fiametta stood looking thoughtfully
after him. She could not understand her
father's anxiety to go downstairs, neither
did she quite see why David, if he knew
her father, had never told her so. She
remembered that he had not shown any
wish to talk about him when his name
had been casually mentioned in the
course of their conversation. On the
other hand, she did not consider that her
father was a sufficiently interesting person
for David to express much curiosity
about him, so she thought no more of the
matter, for the memory of her own
wrongs, in the shape of his mocking
speeches, kept her eyes burning and her
pulses hot for a long time after her father
had come back again.

Mr. Thorold's errand to David's room
was capable of two interpretations, neither
of which, fortunately for Fiametta's peace

of mind, occurred to her. A broken-down
old man, whose best years have been
spent in pursuance of a delusion, with no
friends, no money, no prospects, is reduced
to one of two things  to starve, or to
borrow. The workhouse, the only other
possible refuge, was not even in the
question to such old men as Mr. Thorold.
So much of the gentleman was left in
him still that he could borrow, for he
believed that in some not very remote
future he could repay shillings by pounds,
but to accept alms was just as impossible
for him as to explore the interior of
Africa. Even the borrowing was not
pleasant, though, as he repeated over andover
to himself as he groped his way
down the dark stairs, any gentleman maybe
in temporary difficulties and obliged to
call upon his friends for pecuniary assistance
; but so little did he like the
task, that his manner was of the most
offensive nature when David opened his

VOL. i. 15

door in answer to his knock. He tried
by the lordliness of his air, poor old man,
to do away with the extreme lowliness of
his errand.

I ha  called, ha," he said, "in fact 
I have wished."

"Pray come in," said David, divining
his visitor's errand at once. " I am just
going to have supper; will you join
me?"

"I am. obliged to you. No, I thank
you. I dined late."

Oh, you had better," said David,
good-humouredly, not in the least taken
in by this very transparent He. " Anyhow,
have a glass of beer ? "

None, I thank you. In fact, it was a
mere matter of business I called to see
you about  a mere temporary accommodation.
I am on the right track, the
right track at last, Mr. Everest," said the
old man, suddenly dropping his imposing
air, and looking anxiously for some confirmation

of his doubting hopes into the
younger man's face.

Of course, of course," said David;
no doubt you are."

Certainly, certainly," he assented,
again resuming his offensive tone of
patronizing importance; " not the least
doubt about it. But a set of low fellows 
attorneys, low fellows, who are obliged to
drain and squeeze every penny they can
out of their superiors,  these grasping,
low fellows, why, they drain a man before
he comes into his property. They will do
nothing, absolutely nothing, my dear sir,
without money."

Which means," said David to himself,
" that my friend the patriarch has no
money to buy his breakfast with." But
he listened in silence.

You have seen my daughter? " said the
old man pompously. " That young lady,
sir, has in her veins some of the best
blood of the Italian nobility. My wife was

a Vercelli. You know my family ? Is it
not, I ask you, a monstrous thing that that
young lady should be the prey of a low
gang of grasping attorneys ? Incredible ! ' '

So it is," said David, " very. Can I
be of any assistance to you ? "

The old man looked eagerly at him.
There was a hungry light in his bleared
eyes, a ghastly expression on his haggard
face, his long iron-grey hair mingled with
his rough beard over his greasy patched
coat. He was as little like the heir to
a great estate as can well be imagined ;
and David, for one, had never believed he
had a shadow of a claim.

I have no money," he said, laying his
long claw-like fingers on the table, " none
at all." He was trembling with excitement.


Have a glass of beer, do ! " said David.
Odd thing, you know, I have been without
money too. It's a common complaint.
Your daughter, by the way, hasa

charming remedy for all those diseases,
though I can't say I have completely
mastered the details of her scheme yet. I
only know it holds out delightful hopes to
lazy men, like myself."

Mr. Thorold had taken the glass of beer
that David pressed upon him, but he
sat with it in his hand, thinking. The
light had vanished out of his eyes as it
was wont to do out of his daughter's 
completely and suddenly like the light
of a lamp blown out. His head was
pushed slightly forward, his shoulders
bowed. When he spoke again it was in
his usual high-pitched, trembling voice.

They scoff at me because I am poor,"
he said. " How should a man be otherwise
than poor when he is unlawfully kept out
of his property ? I say unlawfully. James
Thorold has no claim, not the shadow of
a claim. Was not John Thorold the elder
son, and did he not go abroad and marry ?
Yes ; I know he married. They have no

right to say he died a bachelor. I will
prove it. He is my ancestor. How am
I a Thorold if he did not marry ? They
are liars and robbers all together, everyone
of them, from James back to Robert,
John's younger brother ; but I will prove
it yet  prove his marriage in spite of
them all." And in his weak, nervous excitement
he half rose, forgetting the glass
he held in his hand.

Put it inside your coat instead of
out," said David, checking its overflow.
"It's clear waste of the gifts of Providence
to wash a coat with beer."

The old man looked confusedly at him.

I will prove it yet," he said.

Of course you will," replied David.
Have some supper ? "

The question seemed to recall his
wandering faculties.

No, no," he said. " I came about
something; " and he looked helplessly at
David.

To be sure," said David, cheerfully.
"Done trie same thing myself"  which
was a lie. " Will a sovereign be any use ?
Sorry I can't say a note, but it's near the
end of my financial month. They pay us
in the middle of the month, which is a
most confounded arrangement ; for one
always feels that the calendar month is
the orthodox one, so one is ridiculously
liable to run out of one's coin in the early
days of the new one."

Again that swift, sudden light rushed
into the old man's eyes as he saw the
gleam of the gold upon the table, and he
stretched out his trembling hand towards
it ; but he drew it back, and, looking with
an affectation of carelessness for his hat
which he had put on to come downstairs,
remarked 

Ah, you are very good. A mere
temporary assistance. Twenty per cent,
is always my principle."

Oh, don't bother about that," said

David, carelessly. " Very glad to be of
any use to you."

Excuse me, but I  ah, really cannot
accept this loan as a favour; not as a
favour." And the old man laid the
money, with much dignity, on the table.

David would have laughed had the poor
old figure before him been a whit less
pathetic in its feeble pride and wandering
intellect ; as it was, he felt kindly disposed
to the poor shattered gentleman.

The favour is on my side," he said
gravely, with a bow.

The old man returned the courtesy
with something approaching to a real
stateliness of gesture ; but he marred its
effect completely by turning, as he came
to the door, and saying 

"I am on the right track, the right
track now." And so saying disappeared
on the dark landing.

Mk. Fowler was sitting alone in his little
sitting-room the day after he had escorted
Nellie Guthrie through the Natural History
Departments of the British Museum, and
was thinking with all his might and main
about her, when a card was brought to
him bearing the name of " Mr. Thomas
Mario w " upon it.

You did not recognize me, nor did I
you," said the owner of the card, following
Sarah Ann into the room. " But Miss
Guthrie and Miss Markham were speaking
of you last night, so I thought I would
hunt you up. They gave me your private
address at the Museum."

M-Marlow, how do you do ? I  I 
I am delighted to see you," stammered
Mr. Fowler, faintly, as he endeavoured,
by some inward process, to pull himself
together. Then as the visitor advanced,
and he recognized the cool stranger who
had carried Nellie from him on the night
of the party at Miss Markham's house, his
brow contracted  darkened would be the
proper word, if Mr. Fowler had not been
too fair and his eyebrows too light for
the expression to be appropriate.

The stranger did not appear to notice
it, but stood with his back to the mantelshelf,
and his hands in his pockets, as
coolly as if he were the owner of the
rooms, while Mr. Fowler sank somewhat
helplessly upon a chair.

"I  I " began Mr. Fowler; "really

you came upon me so unexp-p-p-pectedly
that I  why, I haven't seen you since I
left school."

No," responded his visitor. " You

left before me, I think. I went to Cambridge
from there, where I did pretty well;
in fact, was third wrangler."

"Dear me, how very extraordinary!"
said Mr. Fowler.

"Not at all. Why?"

Mr. Fowler's stammering became so
hopeless that his visitor gave np attempting
to understand him.

"It's a pity you haven't given up that
habit of yours yet," he said. " I remember
it was very much against you at
school. By the way, what are you doing
now?"

"I  I  I am an as-as-ass- " (you
always were," muttered the visitor) " assistant
in the British Museum," gasped
Mr. Fowler at last.

That's a poor thing, isn't it ? " said
Mr. Marlow. Then, without waiting for
an answer, " I am a professor of sociology,
and also lecturer at Newton, the women's
college."

Why, dear me, how you have goton
! " said Mr. Fowler, surprised into
straightness of speech, since his recollections
of Tom Marlow were of his being
the stupidest boy in the school.

Yes," said his visitor carelessly ; "it
was examinations that did it. I have
a wonderful power of cram, Fowler, and
that is what makes a man get on nowadays.
Now you, I remember, took a
long time over your work, but you never
forgot any of it."

Oh dear, no ! " cried Mr. Fowler. " I
shouldn't think of forgetting anything
I ever learnt."

Mr. Marlow shrugged his shoulders and
changed the conversation.

I saw you talking to a little cousin of
mine the other night," he said ; " a nice
little girl, Helen Guthrie. If she hadn't
got such an awfully baby face she would
do very well."

"Hasn't M-m-m-miss Guthrie any

parents ? " Mr. Fowler asked, feeling
suddenly very hot.

"No," said the visitor, examining the
toe of his boot with great deliberation ;
she is entirely dependent on her aunt.
She is a nice little girl, but weak, and
dreadfully ignorant. I have been talking
to my aunt about taking her in hand
myself, and coaching her a little. To
tell you the truth, Fowler, I rather like
the little thing. Weakness isn't a bad
point in a wife."

Mr. Fowler could only gasp. This
dreadful announcement took away all his
present consciousness for awhile. He was
not certain that he did not mutter, " Oh
dear, yes," or " certainly," or some such
remark ; but when he came to himself,
Mr. Marlow w T as explaining the system of
education he intended pursuing with his
cousin.

Mr. Fowler listened as in a dream.
Shortly afterwards, when his visitor took

his leave, he laid his head, with his
spectacles still on, upon the round table,
and allowed his feelings to overcome him.

What could exceed the misery of Mr.
Fowler for the next two or three days ?
When it is stated that the particularly
awful chief before mentioned sent for
him, and administered another awful
reprimand, and that Mr. Fowler came
out from his presence actually feeling
that he didn't care, any intelligent reader
will discover that his case was very bad
indeed.

In fact, if it had not been that Nellie
Guthrie, when returning from a friend's
house in Tavistock Square, had found
that the shortest way to Weymouth
Street was across the top of Bloomsbury
Square just at ten minutes past four,
when by the merest accident in the world
Mr. Fowler met her, a very dark tragedy
might have closed over the poor little
man's career. His work for the last few

days had been absolutely atrocious, but
by the kindness of one or two humane
superiors had been kept from the awful
chief ; but that sort of thing could not goon
for ever. There must be an end of it
some day, and Nellie Guthrie was the
end of it.

Mr. Fowler would not have seen her,
of course. He was not good at seeing
people in the streets. In the first place,
he never expected to see any people that
he knew, and, in the second, he could not
see them if they were there, for his range
of vision was decidedly limited ; so it was
Nellie who spoke first.

Good afternoon, Mr. Fowler."

Eh ? Oh, dear me!" cried the little
man. " W-w-why, Miss Nellie ! "

"I have been seeing some friends 
at least, a friend," said Nellie, with a
blush.

That blush completed Mr. Fowler's
misery ; it only wanted that to end all

things for him. But though a cold
despondency settled down upon him that
seemed to curdle every drop of blood in
his body, he was man enough to say 

I  I hope I may congratulate you,
Miss Nellie."

What was his intense surprise to see the
young lady before him burst into tears.
She did it very quietly, and put up her
handkerchief at once ; but Mr. Fowler,
short-sighted as he was, did see the tears,
and as she hurried on he turned and
walked beside her.

"I didn't think you would have said
that," she said, looking at him reproachfully
as she dried her eyes.

Mr. Fowler was absolutely beside himself
; he would, if left to his feelings, have
extemporized a war dance upon the pavement
in his agony, but decorum held
him for her own, and he only grasped the
handle of his umbrella the tighter, and
allowed a cold shiver to run down his back.

Oh, I did not think you would have
cared," continued Nellie, dabbing her
eyes in the way that ladies do when they
want to avoid disturbing their complexions
by traces of grief. " I didn't even know
you knew, and I am sure I thought you
would not have cared."

Miss Nellie, what do you take me
for?" cried Mr. Fowler in agony.
11 D-d-do you think I have no feelings
at all?"

"I didn't think you had feelings of
that sort," she answered gravely; and Mr.
Fowler only w 7 wished that the sewer trap
over which he was walking would open
and let him down.

It's bad enough to have aunt and her
friends and cousin Tom reproaching me
over it, and now you will do the same.
Oh dear, it is horrid ! " and again the
handkerchief was in requisition.

A gleam of something, not daylight,
but a very murky radiance as from a

VOL. I. 16

long-neglected lantern, filtered slowly into
Mr. Fowler's soul.

"I  I  I don't understand," he faltered,
almost choking himself with the effort.

What ! Don't you understand," she
exclaimed, turning upon him with the
handkerchief still in her hand, " that I
have been up for the Cambridge local,
and, oh dear, failed? I dare say you
thought I should pass. It was very kind
of you, I suppose, to take it for granted
that I should, and so congratulate me.
But I haven't. I am not in it at all."

A gleam of triumph lit up Mr. Fowler's
face. Tom Mario w had failed ! If his
enemy had been before him at that
moment, he would have smiled the smile
of the scornful over his vanquished head
to such a pass may a good man be
brought by the witchery of a fair face
and a childish voice. Mr. Fowler was
a good man and a Christian, but the
spirit of the Psalmist was strong within

him as he felt how righteous a thing it
was that the designs of the ungodly
should come to nought, or something to
that effect.

Nevertheless he was rather in a
dilemma, for he could not very well
explain to Nellie what her cousin had
stated to him as to his designs about her.
Moreover, a conflict still raged in his
soul. Who was the friend at whose
mention she had blushed ? Gloomy forebodings
filled him again as he stammered
out 

I  I  really  well, I s-s-s-suppose
your friends "

I haven't any friends," said Nellie,
sadly ; " they are all aunt's friends. She
has quantities of friends. They tolerate
me, but oh, they disapprove of me
dreadfully."

Nobody could do that," said Mr.
Fowler, enthusiastically.

Oh, but they do," she replied, shaking

her head ; " and now I have failed in this
horrid examination it will he worse than
ever. I suppose I shall have to try
again."

Oh m, no ; don't ! " cried Mr. Fowler.

Nellie opened wide her pretty eyes.

14 Why, you just began to congratulate
me ! " she said in surprise.

"I I indeed I didn't," gasped Mr.
Fowler, eagerly. " I  I  I n-n-n-never
thought of such a thing, I assure you."

This statement not at all tending to
decrease the width of Nellie's eyes, Mr.
Fowler took a headlong plunge into his
future prospects, and emerged a very
different man from what he was when he
went in. Indeed, he was so precipitous
in his career that he left his stammering
behind him, and never paused to take it
up until he came out an engaged man.

"I tried to congratulate you because
of what your cousin Tom said to me a
few nights ago," he explained. " I believe

he loves you, and I naturally supposed
you returned his affection. Miss Nellie,
if you can tell me you do not do so, I
shall be the happiest man alive."

Nellie began to walk very quickly,
almost to run, in fact. Her face was
very rosy, and her eyes very bright, but
she kept them hidden under her long
lashes, not even giving a glance at her
companion, who hurried on beside her.
Mr. Fowler could not bear the suspense
long.

Miss Nellie, is it true ? " he cried.
"No," she said, turning away her face
from him, and quickening her pace until
he could scarcely keep up with her.
No, it isn't true a bit."

They had passed the Museum, and she
had turned haphazard up Gower Street,
not seeming to mind where she went, and
of course Mr. Fowler followed her. There
were a good many people in Gower Street,
as there generally are between four and

five every day ; and the sight of a pretty
agitated girl flying along at her topmost
speed, followed by a little panting man
in spectacles with an umbrella, was calculated
to awaken curiosity in the minds
of the pedestrians. It is to be feared
that comments the reverse of complimentary
were passed upon Mr. F owner's
character and habits, but that gentleman
was, for the first time in his life, entirely
superior to any considerations of propriety
or decorum.

On they went, Nellie first, and Mr.
Fowler half a yard behind her. The
iii's face burning with girlish shame,
the man's crimson with excitement and
hard walking.

But even a girl's powers of endurance
when running away from her lover have
a limit, and Nellie came to a full stop
as they reached the railings of University
College grounds. So suddenly,
indeed, did she stop, that it was but little

short of a miracle that Mr. Fowler's hat
and spectacles did not fly off into the
road ; but he jerked them back into their
places, and inquired abruptly 

Miss Nellie, why do you run away
from me ?"

"I am not running away from you,"
she answered, beginning to walk slowly
beside the railings, and pretending to be
deeply absorbed in the sight of some
students hurrying out at the college
doors. "I suppose the classes are just
over now ? "

But you did run away from me. Oh,
Miss Nellie, Miss Nellie, have I offended
you?"

"No," said Nellie, hanging her head
and minutely examining the buttons of
her little glove.

Then  oh, Miss Nellie, do you think
you could care about me as  as well as
your cousin Tom ? "

I don't care about cousin Tom," said

Nellie, with a pout. " 1 don't care about
him a bit."

Then could you ? do you ? Oh, Miss
Nellie, could you care about me ? "

They had come to the lodge gates.
Just beyond them are some posts on the
pavement, posts between which only one
person can pass at a time ; but Mr.
Fowler in his ardour was oblivious of
such small considerations as space, and
probably would have tried to get through
the same space as his lady-love, or to
collide the intervening post, if she had
not stopped and turned a little towards
him.

I think I could," she said; and then
she moved on with her eyes downcast
and her face rosier than ever; and a
group of lads who were behind her pushed
between the posts and rushed hallooing
on their way back from school.

It is not a mere figure of speech to say
that Mr. Fowler was too happy to speak.

Words could not have been wrung out
of him at the present moment for anything
under the sun. He was literally
stunned by the glow of life and happiness
that came over him. He had never felt
that there was anything particular in life
until that moment, and he hardly knew
how to bear himself in the revelation that
had come to him. Fortunately they were
in a place where nothing was required of
him but a mechanical motion of his legs.
There could be no embraces, no pretty
speeches outside the Gower Street Metropolitan
Station at a busy hour in the
afternoon. He could not even have
offered her his arm with any comfort in
the midst of two conflicting streams of
people. So he remained silent without
offence, and they walked on together into
the Euston Road.

Here, of course, there was a continuous
stream of foot-passengers, omnibuses, and
carts. The " season " was at its height,

but the season does not make much
difference to the Euston Road. Our two
lovers turned to the east and walked
towards Euston Square, for no reason,
probably, than that by so doing they
avoided crossing the road.

The shrubs behind the grimy railings,
in the strips of gardens that line the road,
were as dusty as a London spring could
make them. Shabbily clad men and
women passed by ; dirty children, rumbling
waggons, everything around spoke of
struggling London lower middle-class life,
where there was no refinement, no loveliness,
no beauty, no enjoyment.

Suddenly the girl spoke.

Oh, isn't that beautiful? " she cried,
and she pointed to a tall building beyond
the trees of the square  a tower and
pinnacles, and turrets of a soft pink tint
lying full in the afternoon sun against a
great bank of low white cumulus cloud.

It was only the Midland Railway



Station ; but to the girl at that moment
it looked as beautiful as the Duomo at
Florence, or the Campanile of St. Mark
at Venice.

Very beautiful," said her companion,
looking into her face.

Nellie did not go back to her aunt's in
Weymouth Street until six o'clock that
evening. Fortunately that good lady
was too much occupied, in company with
some other ladies, in organizing a meeting
for the representation of women at local
vestries, to be much interested in knowing
how her niece had passed the afternoon,
so she only greeted her with 

Good gracious, child, how warm you
look ; and you must get your dinner how
you can, for we have finished ; and Tom
will be here directly to take us to the
Mile End Parliament, by special permission
; so be quick."

"I don't want to go to Mile End,"
said Nellie. " And, oh, aunt, I want to
speak to you." And tears came into the
girl's eyes.

Oh, my dear child, I can't possibly
stay now. I have all the estimates of
the Billingsgate fish supply to go over,
and "

But we haven't anything to do with
Billingsgate," said Nellie, a little fretfully.


But I have" said Miss Markham,
tumbling over some disordered piles of
papers on the table before her. " Philippina
"  to one of her friends  " have
you a pencil ? Every woman has a public
duty to perform in these days of parliamentary
indifference. Oh no, Philippina,
those belong to the School Board papers ;
they have got mixed somehow. But it is
no use explaining to you, Helen ; you
have no appreciation of your privileges asa
woman of the nineteenth century."

"Miss Guthrie," said the Philippina
before mentioned, who was a short person
with a snub nose, and a high metallic
voice, " appears to me to have not yet
grasped that all-important and fundamental
principle, that man is woman's
moral, mental, and physical inferior."

No, I am sure I haven't," said Nellie,
with such spirit that her aunt stopped in
the middle of untying a bundle of papers
with the string in her mouth, and stared
at this revolt on her niece's part in unfeigned
surprise ; " and what's more, I
don't want to, and don't mean to ! "
And quite overcome by the events of the
afternoon, Nellie walked out of the room,
and banged the door after her.

Lucilla," said Philippina (Miss Markham's
baptismal name was Lucy) 
Lucilla, this will not do."

"I am sure I don't know what has
happened to the child," said Miss Markham,
going on with her papers. " She

has always been  well  indifferent to
true principles, but never openly rebellions
as she is now."

She is obstinate, unreasonable, and
contumacious," said her friend. " In
these days of women's dawning freedom it
is of the utmost importance that every
woman should feel and exercise her
immense power properly. This girl must
be checked, Lucilla."

Well, I am sure I have done my
best," returned Miss Markham. " As for
lectures, meetings, discussions, debates,
courses, I am sure no girl in London has
heard more."

I am of opinion," said Philippina,
firmly, " that there is a young man in
this case."

It can't be anybody but Thomas
Marlow, then," returned Miss Markham,
and he is safe enough; and I am sure
I wish he had the training of her instead
of me. Her mother was just the same.

I never could do anything with her ; and
with the same sort of baby face that all
the men like."

Men," said Philippina, viciously,
have no taste in female beauty. Look
at your style, Lucilla ! I do not say it
out of flattery, as you know, but how
infinitely superior was your intellectual
cast of face to your sister Helen's babyish
pink and white and dimples. Yet no
man has ever asked you to marry him ; "
and Philippina looked admiringly at her
friend.

"I don't know that," said Miss Markham,
so very snappishly that her strong-minded
friend looked and felt extremely
surprised. " I am not bound to tell everybody
whether that has happened or not."

"J," said Philippina, drawing herself
up majestically, " am proud to say that
no man has ever presumed to insult mein
such a manner. Others may think
differently. Lucilla, mark my words, a

man is at the bottom of this conduct of
Helen's."

"Then it must be Thomas Marlow,"
said Miss Markham, with a sigh of relief.

And then both ladies worked themselves
into a state of partial frenzy over the
Fishmongers' Corporation, and did such
wonderful things w T with estimates and
figures, that no man would have recognised
the deductions as having the
remotest connection with the original
sources of information.

Meanwhile Nellie had gone up into her
room and refreshed herself by the luxury
of a good cry, and made an obstinate
determination in her breast that no
power on earth should drag her to any
meeting in company with Tom Marlow
that night. So when in due course of
time Miss Markham called " Helen !
Helen! " from the foot of the stairs, she
took no notice, except to assure herself
that her door was bolted.

VOL. I. 17

Can't you go and knock at her door ? "
she heard her cousin Thomas ask her
aunt.

Oh dear ! and we are so late ; and my
boots not laced ! and, oh dear ! where can
my gloves be ? Jane," to the housemaid,
run up and ask Miss Helen if she has
seen them, and do tell her to be quick."

"I am not coming," said Nellie, in
answer to the servant's knock and
message. " Tell aunt I don't want to go,
and I am tired, and I have not seen her
gloves."

She must come!" screamed Miss
Markham, as she tied on her bonnet at
the foot of the stairs, outside her own
bedroom door. " Tell her we are waiting."

"I am not coming," said Nellie,
obstinately. And with this message the
servant came down.

Miss Markham looked in consternation
at the professor of sociology standing
beside her.

I will wait for her," he said quietly.
** Leave me to manage her, aunt."

Oh dear ! but what shall we do without
you?" exclaimed Miss Markham, excitedly.


"You can take my card," he said,
giving her one. " I have no doubt that
Helen and I will follow immediately. In
point of fact," he said, lowering his voice
to meet her ear alone, " I am not sorry
that this has occurred. I rather want a
little talk with her. We will follow ina
hansom. You understand?" And he
nodded mysteriously towards Philippina,
who testified her disapproval of the proceedings
by stalking downstairs in a
majestic manner.

"Oh yes, I understand, quite!" cried
Miss Markham, much flurried. " But, oh
dear ! I wish you hadn't mentioned it just
now ; after those estimates, and with this
question of the manhood suffrage coming
on to-night, I am quite flurried. But

there, Philippina is waiting; I shall see
you again soon." And Miss Markham
bustled down the stairs and into the cab
at the door.

Perhaps the expression on Mr. Marlow's
face, as he leant over the balusters and
watched them well out of the house, was
not altogether complimentary to the two
high-minded ladies who were the objects
of his gaze, for he muttered, as he
turned to go up to the second-floor, where*
Nellie's and his ow T n rooms were, the
words 

Fussy old maids! Thank goodness,
she hasn't an atom of their sort of
nonsense about her." And then he
knocked at her door.

Who is that ? " asked the young lady
in very angelic tones.

Aunt Lucilla and Miss Jiggers are
gone to Mile End. Come down and sit
in the balcony in the back drawing-room."

I am tired," said Nellie, shortly.

"Well, you can rest there. Really,
Helen, this conduct is most undignified
and babyish. I expected better things
from you."

Then you had no reason to," said
Nellie. " I am going to lie down, and it
will be very unkind if you disturb me."

Mr. Thomas Marlow pondered for a
little while. He had never been thwarted
by his pretty cousin before, and her conduct
to-night came with rather a shock
upon him.

They are all alike," he said to himself;
"obstinate as mules. Well, I did
not think so of her. Helen ! " he said
aloud, "you can have no idea how
extremely silly your conduct is. Come
out at once ! "

"I shan't," said Nellie. "You have
no right to order me."

"I hope to prove to you," said Mr.
Marlow, setting his teeth and preparing
to descend the stairs, " that I have the

very best right ; for the present, good
evening. 7 '

Good evening," said Nellie, a little
ashamed of herself; "I hope you will
enjoy the meeting."

Won't you come ? " he said, pausing ;
for he detected the softening of her tone.

No ; really I am tired," she said; and
with that Mr. Thomas Marlow had to be
content.

He had an interview with his aunt that
evening that resulted in a very satisfactory
arrangement for himself; and he further
manipulated Miss Markham's " engagements
" for the next day, so as to allow
of her giving Nellie an hour in the morning,
and so preparing her mind for an
interview with himself in the afternoon.

What was that worthy lady's surprise,
when, in answer to her homily on Thomas
Marlow's virtues and accomplishments,
Nellie burst into tears, and confessed all
the story of yesterday afternoon's doings

winding up with a petition to her aunt to
see Mr. Fowler, who was going to call
there that evening.

"It is quite impossible, Helen," said
Miss Markham, " quite impossible that I
can either see or speak to that young
man, and it is equally impossible for you
to do so either, more so in fact. You
have behaved in a  in a  I hardly know
how to express it  in a disgracefully unwomanly
way, Helen ! "

1 didn't," Nellie sobbed. " What else
could I do when he told me he loved
me ? "

You should never have allowed it to
come to that," said her aunt, severely.
Any woman with the least sense of her
position can always stop any presumption
of that sort."

"But if I liked him it wasn't presumption,"
said the girl, arguing for her lover
as she best knew how. " Oh, aunt ! he is
much  much better than I am."

Nonsense," said her aunt, sharply;
he is nothing of the kind. You are the
most ungrateful woman I ever saw, Helen.
You might just as well have been created
a man. And after all the trouble I have
taken with you, really this is too much ! "
And Miss Markham rose in great vexation
and walked to the window.

Oh, but, dear aunt," said Nellie,
timidly following her, " I am not ungrateful
to you ; not a bit. And oh, aunt,
you do want me to be happy, don't you ? "

I want you to be sensible, and free,
and to enjoy the glorious privileges you
were born to ; not to be the slave of a
low, selfish creature like man, who will
degrade you to the level of a mere
domestic machine for his comfort."

But you want me to marry Tom,"
said Nellie, with her blue eyes rounding,
as they always did when she was puzzled
or surprised. " Shouldn't I be a domestic
drudge just the same, then ? "

"No!" snapped her aunt. "Thomas
lias noble ideas about women ; he assigns
them their right position in the world.
You know how he labours for their cause.
It would be a privilege for you, who are
so weak, to work with him. As Thomas's
wife you might obtain a proud position in
-the world of science or politics."

I am quite sure of one thing," said
Nellie, resolutely putting her handkerchief
in her pocket, and giving it a little
pat, as if to assure it she was not going to
wipe away any more tears with it,  " I am
quite sure of one thing  that I shall be
Tery much less of a mere domestic drudge
as Frederick's wife than Tom's ; and, what
is more, I don't care if I am his drudge.
I would rather mend his shirts than go to
sleep under Tom's lectures. I shall be
much happier making things nice for
Frederick than echoing all Tom's high-flown
talk. You must give me up, aunt ;
for I shall never be a clever woman."

"You shall never so debase yourself
with my consent," said her aunt, angrily.
If you don't know how to take care of
yourself, I shall take care of you. I positively
forbid you to speak to Mr. Fowler
again."

Oh no, dear aunt, I must do that ! "
cried the girl, clasping her hand. " Please
don't say that ! "

"It's for your own good, Helen," said her
aunt, preparing to leave the room. " Now,
don't cry, you silly child. Tom is coming
to see you this afternoon, and he will
explain things much better to you than I
have done. There's Philippina calling
me to go to Doctor Alice Freeman's about
a vaccination case. Now remember,
child, you must see Tom, and must not
see that dreadful young man. Oh, Helen I
how can you like a man who stammers ?
There, good-bye, child; now don't cry ! "
And Miss Markham bustled away.

I'll never speak to that horrid Tom

again ! " sobbed Nellie, as she went up to
her own room. "And oh, how disappointed
dear Frederick will be this afternoon
! To compare him to that horrid
Tom! "

David, coming in with Fiametta in the
twilight of the May evening, was somewhat
surprised at being jostled in the
doorway as he was fitting his latch-key
into the hole by Mr. Fowler, and still
more so at that gentleman's brushing
past him with a dismal groan upon his
lips, and dashing into his own room with
a reckless disregard of every one's feelings
or corns.

"What can have happened to old
Fowler ? " thought David. " This is not
the way that decorous little bird usually
flies home to roost, I trust. It looks rather
like hydrophobia. Good night, my dear,"

he said to Fiametta. " It will sustain mein
my interview with my poor friend to
know that if he bites me I shall make you
miserable, as you have made me tonight."


It will not make me miserable," she
replied; "and why should Mr. Fowler
bite you?"

Because the bitten likes to bite. It
must be hydrophobia. Did you notice
the foam on his lips ? No ? Well, goodnight,
my child. As this may be our final
adieu, our last meeting in this sublunary
sphere, let's have a kiss ? "

Indeed, I will not," she said, drawing
herself up. "It is quite unnecessary to
friendship to kiss."

"Well, when you see me going down
the street on all fours, barking at the
children, and behold my stiffened, gory
corpse borne home on a public-house
shutter, you w T ill feel miserable to think
you refused me my last request. It is a

consolation to me to give you that pleasure.
Good-bye, my child, God bless
you  ahem, I beg your pardon  Humanity
and the votes of the majority be
with you. Adieu ! " And David vanished
behind Mr. Fowler's door.

He found that poor little man in the
hollow of his armchair, with his knees
drawn up and his face upon them, while his
arms hung down perfectly limp on each
side. His hat and spectacles were on the
floor, and from his lips came at intervals
a long, labouring groan.

Halloo ! " said David, stopping to view
the wreck before him. " Is it a case of
c If she be not fair to me, what care I
how fair she be ? ' Cheer up, old fellow ! "

But Mr. Fowler did not cheer up at
all ; he only shook his head and moaned
more dismally than ever, while his fingers
tapped the legs of the armchair in the
rhythm of despair.

You haven't been turned away from

the hulks, have you?" asked David,
seriously. The hulks being his designation
for the commodious underground
cellar in which Mr. Fowler served his
country.

N-n-n-no," said Mr. Fowler, dismally;
worse than that ! "

Oh, come, that's nonsense!" said
David, heartily; "it couldn't be w r horse
than that. What is a bundle of foolishness
bound in pink and white compared
with a man's profession and his bread
and butter?"

"Everest," said Mr. Fowler, looking
up with a very white face, and lips that
trembled with excitement, "I  I  I'll
thank you not to speak in that way."

Certainly not, Fowler; certainly not.
We will call her an ethereal spirit. Perhaps
she has gone out  vanished, collapsed
like an air balloon."

E-E-Everest," said Mr. Fowler,
suddenly jumping up  " E-E-Everest,you

are a very good fellow, I know ; but I  I
really  you must withdraw those expressions."


"Which one? ' said David, quietly;
the last? Certainly."

Y-y-you're insulting me ! " gasped Mr.
Fowler, frantically. " Y-y-you insult
me ! "

Sit down," said David, catching the
unhappy little man by the shoulders and
forcing him into a chair. " Now, then,
cool down, and tell me what is the
matter."

Oh, Everest ! " moaned Mr. Fowler,
forgetting all his indignation under
David's firm tones. " Oh, Everest ! she
is gone just at the very moment I
thought I had her ! "

"Like the nimble. Ahem, T won't
hurt your feelings, Fowler. The wicked
flee when no man pursued ; but she
hadn't that excuse, for you did pursue to
some tune up Gower Street yesterday  at

least, so Rochford told me in the British
Museum to-day. Oh, Fowler ! Fowler ! "

B-b-b-but Everest," said Mr. Fowler,
reddening, and looking extremely confused,
"th-th-that was all right, I assure
you."

Oh, of course it was," replied David,
coolly; "it always is in these cases*
Go on."

I-i-it's her aunt," stammered Mr.
Fowler.

What the deuce has her aunt got todo
with it ? You don't want to marry
them both, I suppose ? "

C-c-certainly not," said Mr. Fowler,
redder than ever. " My dear Everest,
how can you think of such things ? ' '

"I don't see what else the aunt can
have to do with it," said David, yawning.
Hurry up to something interesting, my
boy ; I don't care a twopenny blank
about the aunt."

Oh, but, indeed," said Mr. Fowler,

VOL. I. 18

very earnestly, " the aunt is a most
important person, extremely so ; in fact,
she has been a sort of m-m-mother to
Nellie," he added with a gush.

There can only be one sort of
mother," said David, authoritatively, "and
that's the genuine article. No other sortis
worth a cent."

W-w-well, but she has always taken
care of her  supported her ; in fact,
N-n-nellie has no means of her own
at all."

Oh, now I see what you mean," said
David. " Very sensible of you, Fowler,
highly so. My advice to you is, marry
the aunt instead. You won't know the
difference in twelve months' time, but you
will have the coin."

"E-E-Everest," stammered Mr. Fowler,
m great indignation, "h-h-how dare you
ever say such a  think such a monstrous
thing. M-m-money to be compared to 
to to Miss Guthrie ! "

Ah," said David, thoughtfully, " no,
you are right ; woman couldn't stand
the comparison ; " and he glanced mischievously
at his companion.

Mr. Fowler was almost majestic in his
indignation; he rose, and would, no doubt,
have delivered a cutting speech had his
impediment in that article allowed him
to make any headway at all. As he was,
he was thrust back again by David.

What a hasty fellow you are ! " he
said. " You will be murdering somebody
one of these days. Why didn't you let
me finish my sentence ? How can you
compare a goddess or an angel with
vulgar dross? That impatient spirit of
yours don't allow a fellow to do himself
justice in his remarks''

"I  I  I really b-b-b-beg your pardon,"
said the little man, gazing rather helplessly
at David; "but I  I really thought
you were ch-ch-ch-chaffing me."

Another time think before you speak,

or rather, in your case, speak before you
think ; it will save you a lot of wear and
tear to your tongue and your mind.
Now to return to our muttons. Take
notice that I do not mean this as applying
to Miss Guthrie, who may nevertheless
be a lamb, for all I know. Now,
Fowler, what the holy blazes is all this
shindy about ? "

Oh, don't, my dear Everest, don't be
annoyed," gasped Mr. Fowler, alarmed
by his friend's sudden change of tone ;
and then, as briefly as he could, he recited
the events of the last two days.
And T-t-tom Marlow was there to-night
with her, I dare say," groaned the unfortunate
little man. " The servant would
not admit me, and said there was no
message beyond that neither Miss Markham
nor Miss Guthrie could see me.
Oh, David, what shall I do ? "

Do ? Sing the song of Miriam.
1 Thou in Thy mercy hast led forth the

people which Thou hast redeemed,' as
the authorized version hath it. A burnt
child dreads the fire, and I suppose a
singed Fowl would be in the same predicament.
Or, if you don't like this line
of conduct, which is what I strongly
advise, do the guitar and stiletto business
marry the girl and cut Tom. But you
must be prepared, then, to take the consequences,
which may be serious in the
extreme to everybody concerned."

Y-y-you don't really think," said Mr.
Fowler, his eyes shining with delight 
y-you don't really think th-that I could
rn-marry her, do you ? "

Human nature is capable of any
foolishness," said David, sententiously ;
so of course you can do that. I don't
advise it, mind, and haven't the slightest
doubt in the world that if you do you
will live to repent it, unless a beneficent
Providence carries you off in your honeymoon,
which, like the restoration of open

penance, is a thing much to be wished,
but little to be expected."

I  I  I have a hundred and eighty
pounds a year, rising by tens," said Mr.
Fowler, thoughtfully, " to two hundred
and fifty. "We could live here, couldn't
w r e ? and, when one comes to think of it,
Everest, it can't cost much more to keep
two than one."

That depends on which one," answered
David. " A wife, for instance, may cost
four hundred a year, and the husband
one  at least, I know that is about the
proportion observed at home with my
mother and uncle. So if you cost now
a hundred and eighty, your wife will
require at least six hundred. Retire
gracefully while you may, Fowler  hand
upon your heart, low bow  lay it all on
Providence, who has not seen fit to
reward your merits as He ought. Curtain
falls, and you are w r ell out of it."

"I  I  I am sure," said Mr. Fowler,

his face one large beaming smile, " that
you are joking now, Everest. You area
good fellow, but you don't know Nellie.
Wh-wh-why, we should be happy together
on a crust of b-b-b-bread and cold water.
W-w-we said so only yesterday afternoons'
he added, with a blush.

Oh, well," said David, rising and
going to the door, "if you have come to
that, it's no use my talking any more.
You may command me to the extent of
rope ladders and a special licence, Fowler ;
but spare me, oh spare me, any speechifying
then or now ! A. C, id est ' after
compliments,' as the Oriental translators
head their official documents. A. C.
Good night, old boy."

There's a pretty mess that poor fellow
has got himself into," thought David, ashe
went up to his own room.

He paused on the landing to listen if
he could hear Fiametta talking to Miss
Hatchard in the studio. As he did hear

her, he went up to the second-floor and
knocked at the door.

Lor, whoever can that be ? " he heard
Miss Hatchard say. " Come in," she
called out.

"Sorry to intrude," said David, " but
knowing Miss Fianietta's peculiar tastes,
I came up to give her a dismal piece of
news. I hope it will keep you awake
nicely' he added, looking at the girl.

Lor, what is it?" said Miss Hatchard.
You ain't," she added with a chuckle,
going away from us, are you ? "

"No; it's not so bad as that," said
David; "but the fact is, that I have
just heard that a friend of mine is
about to mentally and morally commit
suicide."

Lor save us ! " cried the artist,
whatever for ? " while Fiametta looked
away from him in her corner by the
window.

There was only a single candle in the

room, and the window was wide open, andover
the uneven roofs and between the
chimney-pots of the opposite houses,
which were lower than these, a faint
primrose was still lingering in the sky.
The girl's head stood out dark against it
as she sat by the open window, leaning
a little forward, as her habit often was
when thoughtful or tired. She had a
white dress on to-night, a dress of many
washings and long life ; it was tight and
scanty for her, and clung tightly about
her round arms, and showed every curve
of her slim figure. She had lately taken
to gathering up her hair into loose plaits,
which she wound round her head after
the manner of Italian women. They
suited the pure oval of her face, and their
crisp curliness still surrounded her brow
like a halo.

For the first time, as David looked at
her sitting there against the sky in the
twilight, with the faint gleam of the

candle shining upon her white dress
and ruddy hair, he felt a strange uneasiness
grow up within him.

"Is she a woman, or a child?" he
asked himself. " She is not like anything
I have ever seen." And so absorbed was
he by her appearance, that he forgot to
answer Miss Hate hard's question as to
what this calamity was all about.

Her sharp little eyes spied him out, of
course, and she was mischievous enough
to wait and let him get out of his inevitable
confusion as best he might ; for
she saw that Fiametta was ignorant of
his gaze, but was looking with a weary
look in her dark eyes at the leaden
east.

But Miss Hatchard was mistaken if she
thought David was going to be confused
about anything. He simply pointed
towards the still figure in the window,
and said, moving his lips only, to the
artist 

"Paint her."

"For yourself?" she answered in the
same noiseless way.

No ; as Freyja waiting for Our."

She would never wait for any man,"
said the artist, firmly.

There was a look in David's eyes as he
answered her which produced a curious
effect upon Miss Hatchard. She turned
to a violent crimson, and her hands involuntarily
clenched themselves, while he
answered 

Time alone will show." And with
this novel remark he turned and went out
of the room.

I know him now ! " cried the little
woman, passionately, letting her clenched
fist fall upon the round table until the
tin candlestick clattered again. " I know
him now, and who he is. Oh, that I
never saw it at first ! " And Miss
Hatchard threw her arms above her head
in an attitude worthy of despair.

What is the matter ? " said Fiametta,
slowly turning. " Is Mr. Everest gone ? "

Yes, he's gone," said the little woman,
bitterly. " Gone, oh yes, he is gone ;
but he will soon be back again, I
know."

Well, why should he not ? " said the
girl, rising. " I must go to bed now,
Miss Hatchard ; I am tired."

Oh, my dear, my dear!" cried the
artist, clinging with both her hands round
the girl's shoulders. " You ain't fond of
him, are you ? Don't tell me you are.
I couldn't bear it."

Fond of him ! " said the girl. " What
do you mean ? No, of course I am not.
I haven't it in me to be fond, as you call
it, of any one. I couldn't if I tried. I
am sure if I was going to love any one
I should love you. There, don't be
absurd, Miss Hatchard ! Good night."

Good night," said Miss Hatchard;
and the girl went away. But it was

anything but a good night for Miss
Hatchard. " If I had only a known,"
she repeated to herself over and over
again, as she paced her bedroom floor for
many hours that night, " who he was, 'e
should never 'ave darkened these doors. "

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND BECCLES. G. C. &" Co.

OF THE

U N IVER5-ITY

Of 

The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

keys

m

NOV 2 8 }989

SEP 04 2HT

L161 O-1096

ir.

j

 iUvil

BY

KATHARINE LEE.

AVTIIOlt OF
 t<

A WESTERN WILDFLOWER, "US THE Alsatia Fountains?, ETC.

IN Thee VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

ublisljrrs in rtfmarg to |fc?er fHajrstu tljr urni.
1884.

(All rights reserved.)

v.?,

IN LONDON TOWN.

Chapter I.

The country about Broodleigh was looking
its summer best. The June roses
were in all their cream and pink and
crimson beauty. A long row of virgin
lilies, the stateliest flowers that bloom
in the purity of their whiteness, lifted
their shining heads above the low terrace
wall. In the sounds of the tender fresh
leaves murmuring in the light wind;
in the songs of the thrushes and blackbirds,
now in their height of summer
song , in the scent of the many flowers

VOL. II. 19

in the garden ;  the glory and the beauty
of the shortest, sweetest time of the
whole year was shown forth. Summer
is long in coming, swift in going; its
sweetness rests but as a breath upon the
land; no sooner is its tender beauty
reached than it begins to fade into
autumn decay.

Mrs. Everest with her adopted daughter,
as she loved to call Fanny, in the Rectory
garden at eventide, felt the beauty that
lay around her, and felt, too, its fleeting
nature.

We must have David home," she said.

Fanny stooped to pick a flower, and
stuck it in her sash.

"It will be very pleasant to have him
back again," she said. "It seems so
quiet here without him."

Yes," assented his mother, with a
sigh; "David has very good spirits. So
had his poor, dear father. I often think,
Fanny dear, that David has not quite

such a serious way of looking at things ashe
ought to have. He does not seem to
have any sense of responsibility about
him."

David is certainly not very serious,"
said Fanny ; " but perhaps his spirits are
too good to allow him to be."

Ah, that is just it ! " said Mrs.
Everest, shaking her head. " Not that I
wish to find fault with my own son. How
should I ? But I cannot help saying to
you, my dear child, that what I most
desire for David is that he should be
subjected to a good steadying influence,
an influence that shall be gently, but
firmly, exercised for his good. He is not
fit to stand alone. I am sadly afraid, my
dear Fanny, that he never attends any
place of worship now."

Dear mamma"  for so she had been
instructed to call Mrs. Everest in her
youthful days  " I think you must be
mistaken. Uncle Theoo told me only

yesterday that David had written to him
about some ceremony that he saw in a
church somewhere."

Some papistical place of worship ! "
said Mrs. Everest, angrily. " I have no
doubt his uncle's teaching has led him
there often enough. I am sure," she
added, with a deep sigh, "I have often
enough regretted his taking that place in
the Civil Service. London is full of
temptations for young men." And Mrs.
Everest took out her handkerchief and
wiped her eyes.

They were at the end of the garden
walk, and paused for a moment before
turning back, as they often did, to look at
the view of wooded hills that shut them
in in this quiet green valley. The trees
w r ere in their deepest garment of green, and
their shadows looked blue in the evening
air. A bright stream went singing away
into the meadows, and the sleepy cattle
stood in it lazily swinging their tails and

waiting for night to send the flies to
sleep. There w r as not a sound in the air,
save the cawing of a few rooks in the tall
elms beside the house, and the distant
whistling of a lad as he tramped along
the lane.

u He will be very glad to come back,"
said the girl, in answer to Mrs. Everest's
remark ; " and, mamma, I do not believe
that he can get into any mischief, for he
never could forget us. David is too kind
to hurt us, I am sure."

Bless you, my dear girl," said the
elder woman, taking the girl's hand in her
arm, " you are a great comfort to me."

Fanny kissed her, not effusively, but
quietly and affectionately.

That is what I like to be," she said.
And then they walked arm-in-arm, and
silently back towards the house.

"I am afraid we ought to go in," said
Fanny, looking up at the sky. " There is
a very heavy dew falling. My dress is

getting quite limp." And she looked at
her light evening dress in some anxiety.

Mrs. Everest was not sentimental  her
worst enemies could not say that of her 
but it did cross her mind that a talk
about her boy to the girl she knew loved
him would not have come amiss on a fine,
clear summer night. But Fanny was one
of those quiet, decisive women who
always manage to have their own way.
Mrs. Everest had not fully recognized
this quality in her yet, but even she had
her glimmerings at times of the fact that
Fanny was, upon the whole, quite as
difficult to "manage" as David; but
hitherto she had not allowed these feelings
to be really recognised. Now she
only said 

Will you have a shawl, dear ? "

No, thank you, mamma. I think I
will go in. Dew is not very wholesome
to be out in. Are you not coming, too ? "

"Yes," said Mrs. Everest; and she

followed Fanny into the house, with a
dawning sense of being uncomfortable in
so submitting.

David, in his reply to his mother's
letter requesting him to take his leave
and come home for a holiday, seemed
strangely unwilling to do so. According
to him, it was the best time to be in
London; and he was very busy, and he
would rather come back at Christmas.

Mrs. Everest was angry ; and it is
difficult to say what form her anger would
have taken, had not a yearning, loving
letter from his uncle overcome David's
objections, and he wrote to say that he
would be down on Saturday night.

Mr. Burney drove to the station to
fetch him. Mrs. Everest had arranged
for the one man of the domestic establishment
to go, but the old rector suddenly
asserted himself in an alarming manner,
doubtless occasioned by his excitement
at the prospect of getting his ally back,

and drove off single-handed, to the
immense discomfiture of his sister, who
had reckoned at getting David all to
herself for the first hour or two on his
arrival, and so properly preparing his
mind for the duty he had been selected to
perform.

This duty of course was to make love
to Fanny. Not that she would have said
so, but she would have worked towards it
in an indirect manner. And now his uncle
had him first after all, and they would get
nothing but liturgical talk out of him for
the whole evening.

However, she did the best she could
under the circumstances, and sent Fanny
out on the steps to receive them, standing
back in the doorway herself with a
handkerchief over her head, to express
her fear of the cold of the evening air.

It is to be feared that the effect of
Fanny in her pale blue dress, with a
gauzy shawl thrown about her shoulders,

and her blonde hair stuffed about her head,
standing just outside the shadow of the
porch, was rather lost upon David, who
w r as so absorbed in a conversation with
his uncle that he continued talking to
him while he got out of the carriage, and
even remained with one foot on the step
finishing his description of a certain
find " of his in liturgical matters,
while Fanny stood waiting for him to
shake hands with her.

"Well, David," said his mother from
the doorway, " so you have not even a
word to bestow upon your mother and old
playmate. It would be only decently
civil "

"My dear Fanny," said David, taking
the girl's hand in his  it was a plump,
pretty hand, and David held it firmly in
his  " my dear Fanny, how well you are
looking ! "

You did not expect to find her wasted
away, did you, my lad  eh?" said the

old rector, with a beaming smile and a
little chuckle of delight. " Ha, ha ! not
that we have not all missed you, my dear
lad ; missed you dreadfully."

David thought his mother had altered,
though he did not say so, since she
allowed this speech of her brother's to
go unchecked and unreproved ; but it
happened for once to coincide with her
own sentiments, so she advanced and
presented a chilly cheek for her son's
salute, and said 

So you have come back, after all,
David, though you do not seem to have
been very anxious to see us again."

"It is delightful to come back," said
David ; and they all went into the house.

Mr. Burney and David had a truly
enjoyable evening. Directly dinner was
over  for they dined late now in honour of
Fanny's young ladyhood  and the ladies
had gone into the drawing-room, David
and his uncle rose, and fleeing from the

haunts of men, or, rather, women  for
there were no indoor male servants at
Broodleigh  fortified themselves in their
stronghold, the rector's study.

We will have tea brought to us here,"
said the old man, rubbing his hands.
Oh, my dear lad, how glad I am to have
you back again ! "

"And I am just as glad to come,"
returned David, looking at his uncle with
affectionate eyes. " But, Uncle Theoo, I
must have a pipe. Bachelor lodgings
have corrupted my youthful purity."

The rector glanced towards the door.

Your mother, my dear boy," he said
feebly ; but the very sight of his boy was
enough for him to banish all other considerations.
" My dear lad!" he cried
again, " and you have grown so manly !
Bless my soul, and what a beard you
have ! Smoke, of course, dear lad ; do
anything you like."

"I will square it with the mother,"

said David, filling his pipe ; " and, Uncle
Theoo, we can't possibly go into the 
smelling of tobacco, you know."
And one of David's eyelids drooped slowly
over one eye.

Bless the boy ! Now, who would
have thought of his being so deep ? "
chuckled the old man. " London is the
place for young men. Oh, Davie, why
did we never think of this before ? "

David merely answered by a smile of
superb satisfaction, and, leaning back in
his chair, entered into a long and particular
account of a manuscript copy of
the Mozarabic liturgy thafc he had lately
been deciphering, and enjoyed his talk
and his pipe as only a student can. As
for Mr. Burney, he had never been happier
in his life, and so emboldened was he, not
to say excited, that he actually answered
the summons to tea by the request that
some might be sent to them in the study.

It was a long time coming ; but it did

come at last, very weak, very cold, and
almost entirely dreamless. After one sip
they left it standing where the maid put
it down ; and David went into the cellar
and drew a jug of beer with his own hand,
wherewith to refresh himself. The old
rector desired no refreshment save the
sight of his nephew's face and the sound
of his dearly loved voice.

But this domestic mutiny could not goon
for ever. Mrs. Everest and Fanny satin
the drawing-room together. They
talked a little at first about David and
his life in London, or what they supposed
to be his life in London; for David had
volunteered but very scant information
on that head. Then they discussed the
temperature of the evening and their plans
for the next few days ; and then Mrs.
Everest nodded over a newspaper, and
Fanny languidly unrolled her crewel work,
but did not get much further with it.

"Play something, Fanny," said Mrs.

Everest, waking with a start, and becoming
conscious that it was getting
late.

Neither of them said, " Perhaps that
will bring him in," but both thought it.
But Fanny played, and even sang, with a
well-taught, meaningless voice ; but the
captive was not to be lured that way.
Possibly the Lady of the Thine had been
less carefully trained, but had more
original capital in the matter of voice to
throw into the music ; anyhow, David
came not.

It is really getting towards bedtime,' '
said Mrs. Everest at last. "I will go
and see after them ; " and go she did.

x\t the study door she stopped. There
was a faint odour issuing from its sombre
portals, an aroma so feeble, so diffused 
for the study door was well-made, and
well-fitted  that none but a well-trained
nose could have detected the scent ; and,
according to the mandates of Broodleigh

Rectory, that odour was a forbidden thing
within the garden and stable, much more
in the house itself.

Mrs. Everest, with her handkerchief
almost concealing her face, opened the
door. The two conspirators started ; they
had forgotten all about her.

May I ask," she inquired in her most
distant and freezing manner, " why Fanny
and I have been obliged to pass the
evening alone? "

Thought you wouldn't like the smell,"
said David, knocking the ashes out of his
pipe, and placing a chair for his mother.
Hadn't you better shut the door," he
added, as she remained standing in the
doorway; " it might get into the rest of
the house."

Mrs. Everest turned upon him perfectly
pallid with rage.

"Did you come back to insult me?"
she asked fiercely.

You asked me to come," said David,

gently. " Look here, mother, I shall not
smoke in the rest of the house ; but
Uncle Theoo does not mind it here. I am
sorry if it annoys you ; but, you know, a
bachelor living alone must do something
to amuse himself."

You had your books ! " she retorted.
You always professed to like them when
you were here, and were asked to do anything
else. But I might have known you
were not fit to be trusted, that you would
be sure to pick up some abominably filthy
habit like this, if you were left to yourself.
After all the trouble I took about
that appointment for you, you come back
ten times worse than when you went
away. I have no patience with you ! "
And to show that she had not, Mrs.
Everest retreated, and banged the door
after her.

Poor mother, I did not think she
would be so vexed," said David, tranquilly,
as he filled another pipe. " But she will

come to it in time. Eh, uncle ? But the
pipe is a grand invention. I wonder,"
he added, with a sly look of mischief in
his eyes, "that you never took to it
yourself ? ' '

Well, I  before your mother came 
at least, when I was a young man, I did,"
said Mr. Burney, shyly. "I remember
I found it very soothing."

David got up hastily, and began searching
in all his pockets.

I have got a new one somewhere," he
said. "Here it is. This is 'Light Returns,'
but I have got some ' Wills' s ' somewhere;
which will you have ? I can recommend
the ' Three Castles.' "

The old man smiled, shook his head,
but took up the pipe and examined it in
an absent sort of manner ; looked at the
tobacco, smelt it, then put the pipe on
his knee ; presently, in an absent manner,
filled it, sighed, shook his head, sighed
vol. ii. 20

IN LONDON TOWN.

again, and contemplated the briar root
thoughtfully.

Thank you," he said, as David struck
a match, and handed it to him ; " thank
you, my dear lad." And peace and sweet
contentment held a decorous revel in
Broodleigh study that night.

David was up early the next morning, and
out in the garden before breakfast. Perhaps
there are few things more delightful
than a stroll in a dewy summer morning
in a sweet, old-fashioned, many scented
garden, after one has been spending the
spring months in London. There is something
almost bewildering in the freshness
and light and beauty, the absence of all
London sounds and smoke, the life and
light and colour that are around one,
instead of the smoke and dirt and bricks
of a roaring city. David was not a great
lover of flowers ; he had never gathered a
bunch for his own delight in his life ; but

he liked them collectively, and he liked
them growing. A rose-bud in his coat
gave him no pleasure, a mass of golden
banksia outside his chamber window, or a
great field of poppies, or a blaze of hollyhocks,
were a delight to him. So when
he climbed in through the dining-room
window to breakfast, he had enjoyed his
uncle's garden to the full, though he
brought no floral offerings to present to
his mother and Fanny.

Mrs. Everest had slept upon the smoke
question, and though that process did not
ordinarily lead to a commutation of the
sentence of the night before, on this
occasion it produced a good effect. She
received her son even with some sort of
cordiality, for had she not heard him say
as she entered the room 

Are the lawn-tennis nets available,
Fanny ? We might have a game as soon
as the grass is dry."

So she kissed him, and told him that

he was looking pale, but country air would
soon set him right ; and then sat down
and poured out the tea, without even an
allusion to his crime of the night before.
Truly, the ways of women were incomprehensible
to Mr. Burney, and if he had
not long ago given up the riddle as hopeless,
this last manifestation would have
driven him to the verge of despair before
he would have puzzled it out.

So they all had a very pleasant meal,
and David and Fanny played lawn tennis
afterwards, and Mrs. Everest sat in the
drawing-room window and made a pretence
of sewing, but was fully occupied in
looking at them and thinking that, after
all, there was much to be thankful for in
this life, and Fanny would cure David of
smoking if she could not.

David enjoyed his game. Lawn tennis
on a fresh summer morning, in a sweet
old garden, with a nice looking girl opposite,
who knows how to manage her

racket, may surely rank among the
pleasures of life, especially if the last
eight months of that life have been spent
in London.

Fanny could play lawn tennis very well.
She had had plenty of practice all the
spring with a girl friend who had been
staying with her, and she was a girl who
was naturally inclined to games. Being
of a fair height, healthy, and with good
strong limbs, she was able to play without
too much fatigue. She was not precisely
graceful in figure, being somewhat heavily
moulded about her joints, with a rather
greater length of body than was quite in
proportion to her legs  a common defect
with large, light-haired women ; but she
was fairly active, and had been well-trained
in ladylike behaviour, so she was
never quite awkward, though never quite
graceful. Her face was more attractive
than her figure.

David, having arrived at the conclusion

before mentioned, that girls were, after
all, moderately interesting, looked at his
companion that morning more than he
had ever done before in the course of
his acquaintance with her. Lawn tennis
is naturally better for the display of the
figure than of the face, so Fanny's figure
chiefly occupied David's attention. He
came to the conclusion that it was too
thick, though he omitted to account to
himself why he did not admire a thick
figure  some people do. Perhaps he had,
quite unconsciously to himself, set up a
pattern female figure in his mind that
others should be judged by ; if so, it was a
very slim, childish figure, long limbed,
slender shaped, delicately moulded at the
wrist and ankles. Fanny's ankles were
not delicate. David saw them occasionally,
and came to the ungallant
conclusion that he did not admire them.

But when they finished their games
and went and sat in the arbour at the end

of the walk, things were a little better.
Fanny's face was flushed, and flushed in
the pretty way that fair people's sometimes
can be  the cheeks rosy, the eyes bright,
the forehead of a delicate white. Her hair
had become loosed from its too precise
plaits, and hung a little loosely over her
brow. As to her eyes  blue eyes  will
not any girl's eyes look sweet and bright
and pretty when she has been playing
any game, no matter what, with the man
she loves, and who she believes will love
her ?

There was a little table in the summerhouse
made of logs of wood fastened
together, and admirably adapted to upset
everything that was put on it. David
leant his folded arms upon it, and looked
attentively at his companion.

You are looking very sweet to-day,
Fanny," he said. " Everything is very
nice to-day, I think."

Fanny blushed and looked down 3 but

her eyes were very bright. David had
never said anything like this to her
before.

You are looking so kind," pursued
David, in that low, tender voice of his 
"so kind that, I am sure, you will not
have the heart to refuse me one little
request."

Was it a little request ? Fanny looked
up, and taking her hat off smoothed her
hair with her soft white hands, and then
laughed, a little nervously perhaps. But
David did not notice that ; he was fingering
something in his pocket.

"Dear Fanny," he said, and it is
impossible to write how tender and
seductive his voice became  " dear Fanny,
I am sure you are too kind-hearted to
object to my smoking."

And he drew his pipe out with one
hand, while he laid the other upon hers
that was lying on the table. He looked
at her while he spoke, and she looked at

him. Perhaps something in her eyes told
him all was not quite right.

"You won't smell it in the open air,"
he said. " I would not ask you indoors,
of course. Won't you, Fanny ? "

Oh yes," she said, with a smile; for
his voice had sunk to its most plaintive
tone. " I  I don't know that I altogether
dislike the smell," she added, with a
blush and a laugh.

You are an angel," said David,
decisively, immediately releasing her hand
and proceeding to fill his pipe. " Fanny,
I never before appreciated the immense
stock of noble qualities you have in reserve.
I knew, as everybody does, the ones that
lie uppermost, but I never knew before
how you could be depended on for an
emergency. Now you are my ally, I fear
no one, not even my mother; for you,
Fanny, can do anything with my mother."

Oh no," she said, with a little laugh ;
for she was very happy.

David and she had never had any little
confidence together before ; this was
something like a secret understanding
between themselves alone. It was very
pleasant.

Oh yes," said David. " Now, Fanny,
you must be my friend in this, as you are
in everything ; you were always a kind
little soul, you know. Now I am going tolet
you into an awful secret. Stay, first
you must swear not to reveal it, on pain

of Let me see, I haven't such a

thing as a Bible about me ; have you ? "

No," said she ; " and I would not take
an oath upon it if I had, if that is what
you mean."

Ah, well," said David, purring at his
pipe, " the honour of the house shall be
placed in your hands. What white
hands they are ! Were they always so,
Fanny ? I never noticed them before."

You are very rude," she said, folding
them in her dress, but looking as though

she did not at all resent the rudeness,
nevertheless. " Go on with what you
were going to tell me, and never mind
my hands.' '

You know w T hat happened in the
study last night ? ' '

I know that mamma was angry. Oh,
David, why did you do it ? "

Because I wanted to," said David,
coolly. " Why do you eat your breakfast ?
But the point is this, Fanny. Poor old
Uncle Theoo  bless him !  used to like
smoking as well as I do, and he has been
obliged to give it up ever since we came
here. Now that is a shame, and I want
you to help in getting back his liberty for
him. I want you to manage that he shall
be allowed to smoke after I am gone."

But, David, you are not going yet fora
long time ? "

I don't know about that," said David,
fixing his eyes upon a patch of sky that
was visible between the rose leaves overhead.

" I must not take up all my leave
now, or I shall have none left for Christmas.
Won't you promise, Fanny ? It
will make me so much happier, if you
will."

Oh yes, of course I will," said Fanny,
hurriedly. " But, David, don't think of
going away yet."

"You are a dear, good girl," he said,
looking affectionately at her. " Now my
mind is easy about poor, dear old Uncle
Theoo."

And Fanny's mind was easy, too ; and
as for Mrs. Everest, when she saw them
coming up the garden together laughing
and talking, and noted David's serious air
and Fanny's brightness, she felt easier
than she had felt for many a month.
So all seemed going well at Broodleigh
Eectory.

David had not overrated Fanny's
influence with his mother.

"Dear mamma," she said to her, as

they went upstairs to dress for dinner that
evening, " David has been talking to me
about his smoking. You know it is not
at all an unusual thing for a young man
to take to when he lives in lodgings
alone."

"It is a disgusting habit," said Mrs.
Everest. " It leads to drink, and is vulgar
and demoralising in its influence."

Not vulgar, surely, dear mamma. So
many gentlemen smoke ; and David will
not smoke in the house, except in the
study. Would it not be better to say
nothing about it for the time ? "

There was something in Fanny's voice
as she said the latter words that caused
Mrs. Everest to look at her. Apparently
she was pleased by what she saw in the
girl's face, for she kissed her, and said 

You shall decide for him, Fanny. If
you do not object to his smoking, neither
Will."

I told him I did not mind it," said

Fanny, demurely. So that difficulty was
settled.

David," said Mrs. Everest, as she
rose to leave the dinner-table, "if you
smoke in the garden this evening, do not
take the path that leads beside the 
windows ; in any other part of
the garden it will not matter."

Certainly, mother," he said, as he
opened the door for her ; and he looked
gratefully at Fanny as she passed out,
and even touched her hand with his for a
moment, in token that he understood who
had wrought this pleasing change in his
mother.

Several days passed amicably enough.
David played tennis, and walked with
Fanny, and talked to his uncle, and
sauntered about in all his old haunts, and
did nothing, and enjoyed doing it as only
a lazy man can, and had a regularly good
time of it altogether, until the receipt of
a letter in a feminine hand.

This same letter gave a great deal of
anxiety to Mrs. Everest. Fanny did not
know of its existence, for she happened
to be in the garden when the post-bag
came in after breakfast ; but Mrs. Everest
saw it, and asked her son who it came
from.

It's about some Museum work, I
fancy," he said. " There is an old
patriarch who lives in the same house
that I do, who goes there every day,
and asks my help sometimes."

But this is a lady's handwriting,"
said his mother.

David took out the envelope and looked
at it.

So it is," he replied. " Probably his
daughter wrote it for him."

Why don't you read it?" she persisted.


Oh, it w T ill keep," said David, coolly.
And he sauntered out of the room and
joined Fanny upon the lawn.

"I don't see why the man's daughter
should write to David, or even direct the
letter," mused Mrs. Everest. " If he had
not gone off to Fanny, I should have
thought there was something in it. As it
is, I must keep a sharp look out, for things
have been going so very well lately."

David suddenly disappeared about the
middle of the morning. Fanny went
indoors to get a parasol, and when she
came out again David was gone. Mrs.
Everest, on whose mind that letter lay
very heavily, was rendered uneasy hy
this, and strolled round the garden in
search of him ; hut he was not to be found.

A little copse lay at the back of Brood-leigh
gardens. It was on the slope of
the hill, a place of ferns and moss,
low growing birch trees, a few weatherbeaten
pines, and some broad-spreading
beeches. It w 7 as very cool and green
under the shadow 7 of the leaves, and
the mossy stones hid treasures of tender

VOL. II. 21

ferns and flowers in their hollows.
Scarcely anybody ever came there, for
there was no regular path through it. It
was merely a bit of waste land that had
somehow escaped the cultivator's hand,
and been allowed to remain wild and
beautiful. It sloped gradually down to a
field on the other side of the hill, and a
little clear brook leapt between its stones
to join a still, reedy river below.

It was here that David read his letter,
lying on the moss and last year's beech
leaves that lay thick under the smooth
stems. It was not a very long letter,
but it gave him a good deal of reading,
nevertheless.

Dear Mr. Everest (it began),

You made me promise fco write
to you, so I do so, though I might have
done so if I had not promised, because I am
very angry with you  worse than angry ;
very much hurt. You have been helping

my father and all the time pretending to
be my friend, and never told me a word
about it. That-was very cruel of you,
and not fair or right. I tell you everything,
and have no secrets from you. I
should not consider myself your friend if
I did not, and you have not done the
same to me, therefore you cannot really
be my friend. I arn sorry for this, for
I have no other, and friendship is very
pleasant.

"Yet on second thoughts I am not
sorry. I had no right to have what so
many thousands have not, and this comes
as a punishment for enjoying myself while
others are suffering. I thought you were
dealing fairly with me, but you have not
been doing so, so we never shall be, and
never have been, true friends. I have
made my father tell me what you have
given him, and have told him that I will
not be bound by him any longer. I will
work, I will do something, if I only sell

flowers in the street, or become an artist's
model. I do not care what it is, but I
will never bear such an insult again. He
is very angry, and says I am going to
disgrace my family. I can never drag its
name so low as it has been dragged, for
I will never accept as charity what is everyone's
right to have, and I will work for
it  if needs be, fight for it; but I will
drown rather than receive yours or any
man's pity and alms.

"FlAMETTA Twofold."

David read it a good many times, and
could his mother have seen his face ashe
did so she would have considered that
things were very far from being right
from her point of view.

11 That's a pretty state of things," he
said to himself, as he folded the letter
and put it in his pocket again; " a very
nice comforting sort of letter to receive.
The combination of child and firebrand

Is curious. An artist's model, indeed !
Good God ! Miss Hatchard will never let
her do that. I must go back to town
and see about it, or she will get into the
most awful mischief. Just as I was
having such a jolly time here, too ! What
a plague women are ! " and David rose
slowly from his recumbent position and
Walked back towards the house. Somehow
it did not occur to him, as he
meditated on the folly and inconvenience
of womenkind generally, that really there
was absolutely no occasion for him to
rush back to London because a girl who
lodged in the same house with him
threatened to get her own living. Why
should it concern him that Fiametta was
unhappy or reckless ? It was no affair of
his. David made up his mind to go back
with never the shadow of a doubt as to
the wisdom of his proceeding, but he
said nothing about it at lunch.

' Fanny and I are going up to the hall
this afternoon. Will you come with us,
David ? " asked Mrs. Everest during
luncheon.

"Yes," he answered. So that matter
was settled, and the ladies went away to
prepare for their walk.

"You are not out of health, my dear
lad?" inquired Mr. Burney, affectionately,
as the door closed after Fanny. "You
don't seem quite  well, quite in your
usual spirits."

"Nothing is the matter," said David,
smiling. "I was only thinking, Uncle
Theoo."

"Oh yes, yes," said the old man. "Weare

in a difficult place now, David. The
question is, how did that 'Ave in serum '
get into both the Mozarabic and Salisbury
Canons? The Roman wants it, and so
does the Ambrosian, and of course the
Gelatin does not go so far. Yet you
say you found it in a Flemish manuscript
of the fifteenth century. Now, if that
was really the Use of a Flemish diocese, it
is most important, and points to Gallic an
survivals."

But for once David was not thinking
of Mozarabic Canons.

You will come too, Theophilus ? "
said Mrs. Everest, as she and Fanny came
down fully equipped for their walk across
the fields to Fanny's home.

Eh ! Oh ! Yes, dear me, of course,"
said the rector hurriedly, somewhat
astonished at the invitation, or rather
command, for his sister was not in the
habit of requesting his company during
her walks or drives.

So they all set out together. David
would have walked with his uncle, but
the " general " of the expedition prevented
that in no time by sending him
off to gather a rose for Fanny to wear,
and then she and her brother walked on
together, and she entertained him with
an account of the latest iniquities perpetrated
in the stable and kitchen 
matters of deep interest to a liturgical
student, of course.

The walk across the fields, with the
fresh green w r gods upon their borders, and
a dim perspective of wooded hills becoming
bluer in the distance, was very
beautiful on that still summer afternoon.
The moving shadows cast by wandering
clouds lay like strips and patches of blue
from the sky upon the hollows of the
rounded hills. Tall foxgloves reared their
crimson heads upon the outskirts of the
woods, and long sprays of wild roses
festooned the hedges. David thought of

the dusty park and the roaring streets,
the clouds of vapour and the miles of
houses, and sighed.

"I am afraid you are tired, and would
rather not have come," said Fanny.

No," said David; "I like this walk.
I only sighed to think of going back to
London."

David would have been astonished had
any one told him that what he said was
untrue. He believed he was speaking
the truth, but, so little do we know even
our own thoughts, he was not. He sighed
because he thought of Fiametta and her
circumscribed life, her narrow enjoyments,
her blind, misdirected energy, her angry
beating of herself with her wings as an
imprisoned bird might do. He was not
thinking of his own going back at all,
yet he answered Fanny, as he believed,
honestly.

But you are not going yet?" she said.
You have two or three weeks more."

"I must go back," he said. And then
for the first time it occurred to him that
he would have to give some reason for
his doing so, and that his real reason
would be treated with contempt; moreover,
he felt that it would be impossible
to give it. He shrank from speaking of
Fiametta to any one, most of all to his
mother. He dreaded to think what she
might say of her. He instantly resolved
that he would tell no one.

"Not at once?" Fanny asked, with
some dismay in her voice ; for he had
paused, and continued lost in thought.

Holidays cannot last for ever," he
said lightly. "I am a working grub
now, Fanny, and you are a gay butterfly,
so you must not tempt me from my
duties."

I do not see that you need have any,"
she answered. " Nobody wishes you to
go to that horrid London."

Horrid London ! "Wait until you

have had a season there, and then see if
yon will call it horrid London."

I don't want a season there ; I w r only
rather live in the country. Oh, David,
I did not think you imagined I cared
only for gaiety! "

Nor do I," said David ; " and you are
quite right. London is very horrid when
compared to a house like this."

They had come to the hall, and were
standing in the porch as he said this.
His uncle heard him.

Eh, Davie  London? Yes, yes;
London may hold larger houses  it does,
of course, but none nicer than this, none
so quiet, none so peaceful."

Just so," said Mrs. Everest, assenting
for once to her brother's statement.
Fanny might indeed go farther and fare
worse ; " and her maternal eyes rested
approvingly on the pair before her.

Fanny blushed and looked clown.
David, unconscious of the double entendre

of his mother's speech, laughed and said
Fanny was a lucky girl, and the hall was
a beautiful place, and then they all went
in together.

There was not very much to be seen
inside. Booms draped in brown holland
are rarely interesting, except to good
housekeepers. Fanny and David soon
had enough of them, and strolled about
them a little dejectedly, until they came
to a pretty little room leading into a
tiny conservatory. This was daintily
furnished, and had books and pictures on
the walls, and in it were a piano, and
needlework, and other evidences of
womanhood and habitation.

"Why, whose room is this?" asked
David, stopping at the threshold.

Mine," said Fanny, smiling. " Won't
you come in ? Mamma thought I might
use it. It was poor dear mother's, you
know ; but as I had no sitting-room of my
own at the Rectory, mamma had this

arranged for me, and we often come here,
It makes a nice change."

' A bower'" said David, seating
himself ; " ' very neat, very airy. Plants,
you observe  hyacinths ' (don't see any
though), ( books again, birds. Such trifles
as girls love are here. Nothing more.
Those who seek heartless splendour, would
seek here in vain.' "

I don't think you need laugh at me,
David," said Fanny, rather displeased.
There is nothing to laugh at in my
having a sitting-room."

"Nothing on earth, my dear girl. I
was only quoting the immortal Pecksniff.
You are not well up in your Dickens,
Fanny."

"Fanny dear," said Mrs. Everest,
entering at this juncture, " will you
take my brother to see the poultry-yard?"


"Isn't Uncle Theoo rather tired?"
suggested David, taking fright at his

mother's evident intention of administering
a homily during their absence.

The poor old rector looked longingly at
the sofas and easy-chairs. He was very
tired.

No, not at all," snapped his sister, in
so decisive a manner that he merely
bowed his meek head and followed
humbly after Fanny.

Now, David," said his mother, settling
herself comfortably in an easy-chair, " I
want to have a little talk with you."

David leant back in his corner of the
sofa, and made up his mind for a bad time.
He knew that something had been in his
mother's mind all day. Indeed, for
several days he had observed symptoms
of an approaching crisis, so he resigned
himself to the inevitable, and put as good
face upon it as he could.

All right, mother," he said; "I can
be l spoke,' run up your signals."

You are extremely disrespectful, but

that I am accustomed to, David. It shall
not prevent my doing my duty. The
time has come at last for me to speak.
I had hoped," said Mrs. Everest, drawing
out her handkerchief, " that I might have
"been spared this painful task. Any man
possessed of only ordinary dutifulness and
respect  any man, I say, who took even a
decent interest in his mother's wishes
and the domestic circle he has been
brought up in, would have divined what I
am about to say, and prevented my having
this additional unpleasantness. But I
have never experienced any consideration
from my son, so why should I expect
any now that he has reached man's estate,
and glories  yes, David, glories, in flaunting
his independence before my very
eyes?"

"How did I flaunt?" asked David;
I didn't know I possessed that accomplishment."


I shall not bandy words with you,

David. In that accomplishment I should
indeed be quickly excelled. Not until today
did I believe that deceit was a part of
your character. I have yet to learn many
things about my son, I believe." Here Mrs.
Everest put her handkerchief to her eyes,
and David knew that she referred to his
letter of the morning, but he said nothing
and she continued. "But personal considerations
must not influence me when
the happiness of another is at stake. For
myself, widowed, alone, of course my
son's happiness is the one thing dear tome
; but as far as I am concerned, I
should never have spoken on such a subject.
I trust I can bear what disappointments
he brings me as a Christian should ;
but when another person is concerned
then I feel that my duty is to speak."
And Mrs. Everest looked fixedly at her son.
I am afraid I don't quite understand
you, mother," he said gently, but with a
very uncomfortable foreboding at his heart.

"No; I did not expect you would,"
said Mrs. Everest, meekly. " I was prepared
for that. Your uncle's slightest
whim you can comprehend, but not your
mother's dearest wish."

"You have never expressed any," returned
David, still speaking quietly,
though inwardly extremely annoyed,
"except that I should go to London. I
have done that."

"Go to London ! " repeated his mother
with scorn. " Couldn't you see why I
wished you to go to London ? "

To get my own living, I suppose."

To get your own living ! Oh, David,
David ! why are you so dense ? Whom
does this place belong to ? Whose is
that park ? whose are those farms ? Oh,
David, don't you know, might have
known any time these two years, that
Broodleigh Hall and three thousand a
year might be yours any day ? "

David rose and walked to the window,
volet. 22

and stood there looking out over the acres
that his mother said might be his. He
did not exactly believe her, yet somehow
the recollection of the past fortnight prevented
his altogether disbelieving her.
Strange as it may appear, it was a totally
new idea to him. He had never thought
of himself as Fanny's husband and squire
of Broodleigh. Youth is notoriously
slow to comprehend the solid advantages
of life that elders think so much about.
David's dreams had never been of squire-dom
and an easy dignified country life,
plenty of money, and plenty of the good
things of this world. The idea, now that
it was presented to him, had its distinct
advantages.

Perhaps few men were better fitted
than David for leading an easy pottering
country life. He could buy books and
study them, write treatises on forgotten
subjects to his soul's delight, pay for
their printing, and add tome after tome

of useless pleasant knowledge to the
world's libraries, and never get a penny
for his labours, but be elected to the
Society of Antiquaries, and divers others.
He could live in the country, and have no
need to bother about money matters. In
short, he could do exactly as he liked and
never be worried. The plan had its advantages,
but it had one distinct disadvantage
: he would have to marry.

Fanny is a dear, sweet girl," said his
mother, just as he had got to this point
in his meditation. She had been watching
him anxiously ; perhaps she saw by
his face when he had come to it. " A
dear, sweet girl ! "

But I don't love her," said David,
slowly, more to himself than to his
mother.

She loves you," said Mrs. Everest;
and it was one of the few clever hits she
ever made in her life, for that shaft went
straight into David's heart. He feared

Library

UNIVERSITY nr II I tunic

that it was true, and he told himself that
if it were so he ought to have seen it and
checked it before.

He made no answer, but stood looking
thoughtfully out of the window. With a
discretion rarely exercised, Mrs. Everest
stole softly out of the room.

Fanny, my love," she said, meeting
the girl in the hall as Mr. Burney and she
returned from their aimless visit to the
poultry-yard, "it is time for us to go
back; David will follow at his leisure.
He is going to look about the place a
little."

Fanny looked disappointed, but obeyed ;
and Mrs. Everest was unusually radiant
the whole way home.

David did not come back to dinner that
evening. This was in itself sufficiently
astonishing; but not perhaps so unprecedented
as Mrs. Everest's making an
excuse for her absent son, and not appearing
highly incensed at his absence.

The old rector was very uneasy, and eat
his dinner in wondering silence. Fanny
was dull, aud, it must be confessed, a little
displeased. It was not very polite of
David to desert her in this way ; but
Mrs. Everest was in good spirits enough
for both of them, and more maternal than
ever towards Fanny.

It was dark when David came back,

and he looked pale and tired ; but he only
confessed to being hungry. But when
food was set before him, he gave but an
indifferent confirmation of his statement.
He had gone straight into the study, and
had had his supper there, and Mrs. Everest
did not send for him to come up into the
drawing-room ; but after Fanny had gone
to bed, she came down and gave him an
embrace, and an injunction to go to bed,
and not stay up talking too late ; but nota
word did she say relating to Fanny or
their conversation of the afternoon. So
for once David did experience a sentiment
of gratitude towards his mother.

In truth, David was very much concerned
by what she had told him. He
had never dreamt of the possibility of
such a thing; and, for all his coolness
and indifference, he was as shy as a girl
over many things that intimately concerned
himself. He had never given
any particular attention to the subject of

love, for he had never felt any special
interest in the matter. Now that it was
brought before him personally, it made
him feel nervous and uncomfortable ; less
agitated than a girl would have been
under similar circumstances, but extremely
uncomfortable, for he was inclined, in a
vague, indefinite manner, to blame himself
for having allowed such a state of things
to come about.

For all his fancied distaste of women's
society, David was very tender in his
heart towards them. He regarded them
somewhat as encumbrances, but nothing
would have ever made him harsh towards
them. Indeed, he was quite capable of
making great sacrifices on their behalf,
for he was ever ready to help them to
che best of his power. His first thought,
on reading Fiametta's piteous little
letter, had been to go to the assistance
of her cramped, sorely tried life. The
sacrifice of his own enjoyment he willingly

made, and though he might grumble
about it, he never even contemplated his
withholding his help from her.

So when Mrs. Everest had told him
that Fanny was in love with him, his first
thought had been that he must marry
her. It is only fair to him to say that he
honestly thought more of her misplaced
youthful affection than he did of her lands
and money. Wealth was a temptation
to him, as it is to most men, but for a
time at least the thought of Fanny's love
put her money out of ken. On the whole
perhaps he would sooner have married
her, had she been willing, without her
being in love with him, for then at least
he would not feel so oppressively that she
gave everything and he contributed
nothing.

After the first feeling of pity for her,
and the first chivalrous desire to sacrifice
his own feelings and take upon himself
the duty of protecting and comforting the

weak woman who seemed to have selected
him as her lord, no matter what his own
inclinations might he, David felt that it
was impossible for him to marry Fanny,
to take her heart and her wealth, and
equally impossible for him to leave her.
It was in this uncomfortable state of
mind that he returned to the house, and
silently eat his supper, and smoked a
large number of pipes afterwards, to, of
course, the immense discomfiture of his
uncle.

Mr. Burney had become dimly conscious
at dinner that something was the matter,
but as it was only shown by the ladies, and
Mr. Burney never attempted to understand
them, it did not concern him very
much. But when David, his own lad,
came back late in the evening as glum asa
mute, and as unsociable as a pole-cat,
then his mild astonishment was changed
to dismay, and his wondering to an almost
ludicrous state of anxiety.

My dear lad," he said at last, unable
to contain himself any longer, as David
sat and puffed at his fifth pipe in the
same abstracted, moody way that he did
at his first  " my dear lad, is anything
the matter?"

The deuce and all is the matter,
Uncle Theoo," said David, rousing himself
to speak cheerfully as he saw the tender
anxiety in the old man's eyes ; " which
is a polite euphemism for saying that
women are the root of all evil."

Hum ! " said the rector, rubbing his
hands : " you have not been falling in love,
have you, Davie, eh ? " and Mr. Burney
looked remarkably sly.

The Lord forbid ! " ejaculated David,
fervently; then, seeing his uncle's look of
astonishment, said meditatively, " but I
don't know that on the whole it wouldn't
be the best thing I could do."

"Eh?" said Mr. Burney. "Well, I
don't know, my dear lad ; women "  and

here he looked cautiously at the door,
as if he expected one of them might
enter like an angel unawares  " women,
my dear lad, are very extraordinary
creatures."

So extraordinary that they ought to
be put in a glass case and kept for show,"
said David, sulkily  he was clearly in a
very bad humour  " then a man might
live in decent quiet and peace, and not
be pulled two ways at once. Did any of
the sex ever take a fancy to you, Uncle
Theoo?"

Me ! Oh dear, no ! " cried Mr. Burney,
in such evident alarm that David
laughed, and that restored his good
temper.

Nor you to them ? " he asked.

Oh dear me, no!" answered his uncle,
with even more effusion than before.
"No, David; I never even thought of
marriage. Perhaps if your mother had
not been so kind as to come and look

after my house, I might  well, I might
possibly have thought "

Of having a housekeeper ; quite so,"
said David. " Uncle Theoo, do you think
love-matches are a success ? "

"I can't say, I am sure," said the rector,
rubbing his chin slowly. " You see,
I have had no personal experience, Davie."

Well, no, and the law don't allow of
any man trying to improve his mind a little
in that way without binding him down toit
for ever ; and then your experience
isn't of any use, because you can't change
your condition."

But, my dear lad," cried his uncle, in
astonishment  " oh, my dear boy, you
don't mean that you have any of those
dreadful modern ideas about loosing the
sanctity of the marriage tie ? Oh, Davie,
you can't mean that ? "

I haven't any notions on the subject
at all," said David, yawning. " I wish
one could introduce the system of purchasing

a substitute, after the manner of
military service in some countries. I
would willingly pay some impecunious
person to marry in my stead."

"But, Davie," asked Mr. Burney, with
unusual persistency for him, "my dear
lad, why are you talking about getting
married at all ? I never heard you do so
before."

Well, I have had a sort of an offer,"
said David, dolefully. " It's a dreadful
position to be placed in, for I don't see
my way out of it."

You don't say so ? " cried his uncle,
aghast. " Oh, my dear Davie, what
dreadful people you must have got among
in London ! I never heard of so indelicate
a thing!"

It isn't exactly from the young lady
herself," replied David, thinking that his
uncle had unwittingly put himself in a
position to give him some disinterested
advice ; " but, I believe, or, rather, I have

been told, that she is in a condition to
say ' yes,' if I ask her."

Oh, I see," said Mr. Burney, contentedly
; " you have been sounding her
relations, her father possibly, first. A
very right and proper proceeding, Davie.
Honourable and gentlemanly. Go on,
my dear lad."

Well, what would you do in such a
case ? " asked David.

"I? Oh, my dear lad, if I were in

your place I should Oh, well, I hardly

know. You see any engagement must
necessarily be a long one. It is very
difficult to decide on anything so important,
Davie."

"Yes, a hundred things might happen
in the course of a long engagement," said
David, rather enjoying the situation; " but
there would be no lack of that sort forme,
for the lady is very well off, and we
could marry directly."

There was such an expression of

absolute horror in the old rector's face ashe
heard these words, that David burst
out laughing.

You don't congratulate me, Uncle
Theoo," he said. " Don't you think it a
fine prospect for me ? "

But to David's unutterable dismay, the
old man turned away his head, put his
hands before his face, and a low moan
broke from him.

Why, Uncle Theoo, dear old Uncle
Theoo, what is the matter ? It's all a joke,
Uncle Theoo. I wouldn't marry a queen
if you didn't like it. Nothing on earth
should make me do anything you did not
wish me to do. Look up, Uncle Theoo !
What is the matter ? "

Oh, my dear lad," cried the old man,
seizing David's hands eagerly in both his
own  "' oh, my dear lad, it would break
my heart to see you stoop to marry any
woman for her fortune. Davie, no gentleman
could do it. It would be taking a

base advantage of some helpless woman,
perhaps some ignorant girl. Davie, you
could not do it ? "

"But there is something else," said
David, speaking for the first time quite
seriously, and holding the old man's hands
affectionately. " Remember that she is
supposed to love me."

The eager light faded out of the old
rector's eyes ; he looked helplessly at his
nephew.

She must not be allowed to suffer,"
he said.

That is just it ; but, Uncle Theoo, the
question is whether it would not be
suffering for her if I married her, and she
found out afterwards, as perhaps she
might  women are very sharp  that I
did not love her ? "

So she might," assented Mr. Burney,
feebly. " I believe women are very
desirous of being loved in return. I
don't see what you can do, Davie."

Perhaps," said David, musingly, ashe
got up and stood before the fireplace,
looking into its empty grate, "it maybe
only a girl's fancy. I believe girls
do take fancies into their heads sometimes."


Is she very young ? " his uncle asked.

She is twenty," said David, with a
little flush.

"Ah! dear Fanny's age," sighed the
old man. "Fanny, I imagine, might
change her mind. I do not know; she
is not a very changeable person. Still,
she might ; and all girls are not so quiet
and steady as Fanny. Can't you, can't
you," he asked, looking anxiously at
David  " can't you to ait a little while,
Davie ? "

"Yes; that is what I must] do," said
the young man, turning away his face.
He could not bear to have even this little
deception with the old man who so loved
and trusted him. " Yes, I will wait ; but,

vol. ii. 23

Uncle Theoo, I ought to go back to
London at once."

The expression on Mr. Burney's face
was very piteous. David's going away
was the worst thing the world held for
him, as far as he could judge ; but he
only said 

You must be the best judge of that,
dear lad ; you must do as seems to you
best. I have every confidence in you,
Davie."

"I need not go for a few days, perhaps,"
replied David, touched by the old
man's exceeding pain  " a few days up or
down can't matter much ; and we must
settle that question of the ' Ave in asvum,'
if there is any answer to the conundrum."

So that affair was decided for the time,
and David went to bed and slept soundly,
and in the morning came to the conclusion
that his mother had exaggerated
matters, and he had worried himself very
unnecessarily. Yet all the same he

"blushed a very bright red as he shook
hands with Fanny in the breakfast-room
under his mother's eyes.

Mrs. Everest, by way of being a very
astute diplomatist, and giving value to
her prizes by rendering them slightly
more inaccessible, kept Fanny by her
side all that morning, and so David was
left at liberty to do as he pleased.

His mother supposed he filled up his
time by reading in his room. In reality
he was writing a letter, and this was the
letter 

My Dear Little Friend,

For you are talking great nonsense,
as you always have and always will
if ever you presume to say such a thing
again as that we are not friends. We
always have been since we first met, and
always will be until the time when you
bring clown my grey hairs with sorrow to
the grave, by your neglect of my precepts
and example.

Now, with regard to your working. Of
course you shall if you like, but you must
leave it to me to find something for you
better than hawking flowers, or being an
artist's model (if you sit to any artist
but Miss Hatchard, I will thrash him
black and blue for his impertinence). A
profession is not found in a day, and you
really must promise me to wait until I
come back, which will be within a week
from this date ; for I can't have my dear
little friend throwing herself away on
doing foolish work, when she can do good
and make a fine name for herself. Of
course you will be angry at my saying
this, and stamp about ; but don't tear this
letter up, but show it to Miss Hatchard,
who, I am sure, will approve of your
waiting a few days.

As to myself, I am enjoying myself
very much here. I play lawn tennis (which
is an amusement your superior soul would
revolt against), take long walks, and

generally look after my mother and the
girl who lives here, my uncle's ward.
Having two women on my hands, of
course I am pretty busy, and why I should
trouble myself about you I can't conceive,
except that I too have grown to love
being miserable, and you can make me
more so than anybody else. So, good-bye,
for the present, because I should like to
write some more, but I have learnt my
lesson so well from you that I won't do
so, and will make you miserable too by
sending so short a letter. Therefore,
good-bye again, and if you write such
nonsense again, you shall be an artist's
model, and I will paint your portrait ; and
if that doesn't cure you, nothing will, and
you will be hopelessly incorrigible, which
is what you are. So, good-bye once more,
and imagine that you are scolded and
kissed, and we are friends again.

Yours most miserably,

"David Everest."

And how had Mr. Fowler's love affair been
progressing lately ? David's counsel had
refreshed him very much at first ; but
when a few weeks had passed since his
engagement, and he found no opportunity
of communicating with his lady-love, he
again became a prey to the bitterest
despair. He did not dare to write to
Nellie, for he did not know into whose
hands the letter might fall, and he was
also fearful of getting her into trouble if
he did so. The only thing left to him
was to prowl in a dismal manner about
the vicinity of Weymouth Street, and to
glance despairingly at the back windows

of the houses there, in the faint hope
that Nellie's face might appear at her
bedroom window.

This in itself was not a very cheering
or hopeful pastime, and Mr. Fowler, by
dint of neglecting his meals and lying
awake at night, as a variety from this
amusement, was reducing himself to an
interesting condition of skin and bone,
when chance, who seemed to have a
special partiality for him, threw Nellie
in his way.

Nellie was coming back from a class
on political economy in University College
one afternoon. The lecturer had been
unusually long and prosy, and Nellie's
pretty little head had nodded a good
many times over her note-book. Nellie
always took voluminous notes at lectures,
by her aunt's desire ; but as they were
never decipherable by herself or any one
else afterwards, it is doubtful whether she
derived much solid good from the system.

It was a hot, languid afternoon. The
class-room was crowded and stuffy, though
the windows were open, for nothing
seemed to come in at them, except smuts
and street sounds. Nellie was bored arid
hot and tired ; so tired that even when
the lecture was over she made no haste
to leave, but waited until the rest of the
pupils had gone, and then came languidly
across the great bare courtyard in front
of the college.

She was not looking where she was
going, and would have passed Mr. Fowler
in the street if he had not seen her therefor
since his disappointment he actually
walked about with his eyes open.
Nellie ! " he cried. " Oh, Frederick ! "
the girl answered ; and political economy,
professors, classes, and colleges, and
maiden aunts, were all forgotten in an
instant, and the world contained her lover
and nothing else.

They went for a long walk that afternoon,

to the Eegent's Park. Mr. Fowler
proposed it, actually called the idea into
existence by his own unaided effort. He
was certainly developing to a surprising-degree.
Nellie assented, of course. She
would have assented to almost anything
that afternoon that promised a respite
from the stuffy streets and the dreary
lectures. What they said on that afternoon
under the drooping dusty leaves in
the park need not be repeated here. Most
people can imagine it for themselves ;
those who cannot do so would feel no
interest in reading it.

It was the first but not the last of their
walks in the Eegent's Park. The amount
of use that park is to the lovers of
Bloomsbury is almost incalculable; it is
the only spot within a moderate walk
where any approach to solitude and quiet
can be obtained. Mr. Fowler and Nellie
used it a good deal  every afternoon, in
fact, for more than a w T week. Then, it was

one Saturday afternoon, Nellie burst into
tears as soon as they readied its dusty
shades, and confessed to her lover that
Cousin Tom had been bothering her again,
and her aunt was urging her on in the
same direction.

Mr. Fowler's wrath was magnificent to
behold. He drew himself up to the very
extreme of his moderate height, and
glared through his spectacles at an unoffending
urchin, who was not interested
in their proceedings, in a way that he
might have glared at Tom himself if he
had been there. Moreover, he ventured
to put his arm round Nellie's waist, a
liberty he had never taken before, after
a hasty glance to see that no one in particular
was looking at them, and proceeded
to comfort her as best he could.

Whatever it was that he said or did, it
was very effectual, for Nellie dried her
tears almost immediately, and they fell to
talking with great gravity and earnestness.

You will have many things to put up
with, darling," Mr. Fowler said, after a
time. "I am afraid, after being used
to your aunt's nice house and servants,
you will find lodgings very uncomfortable."


"I suppose a house would be nicer ? "
said Nellie ; " but, Frederick dear, surely
if you can live in lodgings, I can."

B-b-but I am out a good deal," explained
Mr. Fowler. " I  I am afraid you
will find it very 1-1-1-lonely."

Not more lonely than a house."

Well, no ; certainly not," said Mr.
Fowler, brightening. " I don't know
much about the other 1-1-1-lodgers ; but I
believe there is a v-v-very nice girl at the
top. But what I mean, darling, is, that
we shall" have so little pin-money to
spend, that I am afraid you will find
life very hard for you. You won't be
able to go to entertainments at all; and
m-m-many things that you are accustomed

to now. We shall even have to live
very plainly, darling."

I shall learn to cook," replied Nellie,
promptly. " I believe one can make very
nice things w r with next to no money, if one
only knows how to cook properly. Oh,
Frederick, I shall make you such beautiful
little dinners ! "

But, my darling, I don't like your
being turned into a c-c-c-cook, with all
your accomplishments."

But I hate my accomplishments,
Frederick ; and I should love to make nice
little dishes for you, and dam your stockings.
Oh, Frederick, do you wear your
stockings badly ? "

"I don't know," said Mr. Fowler,
glancing at his feet, u w-w-what you call
badly, darling. I know I am always
getting new ones."

"Then we shall save in that," cried
Nellie, enthusiastically. " Oh, Frederick,
I believe your things will last twice as
long if I look after them."

11 P-p-possibly, my love. Y-y-you are
sure you won't mind having so v-v-very
little money to spend? One hundred and
eighty pounds a year is not much for two
people to live on, darling."

Oh, Frederick, you don't really mean
that "

M-m-my darling, it's only you that I
am thinking of. It's the g-g-greatest
possible happiness to me, I assure you.
I  I  I never dreamed of being so happy,
darling," cried Mr. Fowler, rapturously;
and for the next quarter of an hour
nothing interesting was said, though
neither of the parties concerned seemed
to have a dull time of it.

But you don't think it is very
wrong ? " asked Nellie, at length. " Oh,
Frederick, aunt has been very kind to me ! "

S-s-so she has, darling ; but she has
no right to interfere with your happiness
now. If it were not for T-t-t-tom Marlow ' '
and Mr. Fowler pulled his forehead up

into a knot supposed to represent a scowl
of dark and deadly malignity  " if it were
not for that contemptible p-p-puppy, we
could tell her all about it, Nellie."

"Yes," assented Nellie, with a sigh.
I hope it isn't deceitful, Frederick ; but
but this mystery is a little nice, too ;
isn't it ? "

V-v-very nice," said Mr. Fowler,
kissing her again. "We will tell her all
about it afterwards."

"Well, not all" said Nellie, looking
shyly at her lover. " I am sure I shall
never have courage to tell her I let you
kiss me before we where married, Frederick.
She would consider I had disgraced myself
for ever."

N-n-no, she won't," said Mr. Fowler,
sturdily; " f-f-for if she does, Nellie, I
shall k-k-k-kiss her because she is your
aunt."

And with this sentiment of Mr. Fowler
it is high time to close this description,

to such desperation may the prospect of
matrimony bring a moral young man. If
anybody a few months ago had told Mr.
Fowler that he would ever kiss a young
lady in broad daylight in Regent's Park,
and talk of saluting an elderly maiden lady
in the same manner, he would not have
had enough blood in his body to bring out
the blush he would have considered suitable
for the occasion. After this sentiment,
nothing further could be expected of Mr.
Fowler than that he should make a runaway
match, which was precisely what he
and Nellie were discussing at the time.

But nothing could be done without
David's help. David, according to Mr.
Fowler, w T as an epitome of the wisdom of
all ages, and a perfect reservoir of commonsense
and kindness. Indeed, so enthusiastically
did Mr. Fowler speak of his
friend, that Nellie rather feared she should
rather dislike him than otherwise ; it
seemed impossible that any one man could

can such a load of virtues without-some
corresponding vice to balance them.
She recalled, with a shudder, Tom Marlow's
testimonials, and decided in her
mind that David was an objectionable
person, until Mr. Fowler incidentally
mentioned that a runaway marriage was
more or less David's suggestion, and from
that time forward Nellie began to think
more favourably of her lover's friend.

David came back, after three weeks'
absence, at least a week earlier than he
was expected. He seemed rather gloomy,
as if his holiday had not agreed with him
He grumbled at London a good deal, too,
and found the dust, and the smuts, and
the streets, and the air all far less agreeable
than he had thought them before. He
even found fault with the British Museum
reading-room, and declared that it made
his head ache ; and when a student can
say that, it of course means that something
very bad is the matter.

Mr. Fowler was surprised at all this,
but still more surprised when, on his
modest request that David w T ould afford
him his moral support at the altar in the
character of " best man," he was met
by a flat refusal, and the information
that he, David, would not have it on his
soul to help forward such a thing as a
marriage in any way.

Mr. Fowler was aghast.

B-b-but you yourself s-s-suggested
my m-m-marrying," he stammered forth.

Then I was a blessed fool," said
David ; " and if it will be any relief to
your mind to curse me, let fly at once ; it
will rather do me good,"

M-m-my dear Everest, I  I don't
understand youn

There's only one thing worth marrying
for," said David, turning round fiercely
in his chair, and staring hard at the little
man before him  " only one thing, and
that is money. Go and marry the aunt,

vol. ii. 24

if you like, but not this girl without a
penny."

That," said Mr. Fowler, rising to
leave the room, his gentle dignity roused
at last, " is a matter I will not even discuss
with you, or any man. Good night,
Everest. I am sorry to see you so
changed;" and he moved towards the
door.

Sit down," said David, peremptorily.
1 ' Fowler, do you really mean this ? What
are you going to marry the girl for ? "

Because I love her," answered Mr.
Fowler, promptly.

Ah ! What about her ? "

She loves me, too," was the answer.

Mutual accommodation, I see. Well,
Fowler, I suppose I must see you through
with it. Where are you going to live ? "

Here," answered Mr. Fowler, his
eyes moist with pleasure. " Oh, my dear
Everest, this is a great pleasure  your
consenting, I mean."

u Don't reproach me with it afterwards.
Fowler, is your future wife a kindhearted
woman ? I mean, would she pity
any one who was in distress, or was unfortunate
in any way ? "

Nellie kind-hearted ! " cried Mr.
Fowler, quite astonished at the question.
" Why, she is the kindest, most
sympathetic  why, the very sweetest,
gentlest "

Ah, I see, I have come to the wrong
house for inquiries," said David, coolly.
"Of course she is. Well, Fowler, if she
is all you say, I may enlist her sympathies
some day for some one ; hut I shall
judge for myself first. Good-bye, old
fellow."

This was the only time David saw Mr.
Fowler until the day before his wedding,
for his time was very much taken up by
trying to find some suitable employment
for Fiametta. Until he was actually
engaged on this quest he had no idea

low difficult it would prove ; and the
information of a totally new kind that he
acquired was of a nature calculated to
disgust and dishearten him. For the
first time in his life David was brought
into actual contact with the great army
of sufferers who literally live on from
hand to mouth, not knowing to-day where
tomorrow's bread will come from.

Brought up in a country parish where
the poor people were looked upon almost
as the property and especial care of the
well-to-do, he was completely astounded
at the frightful distress that is so completely
ignored and overlooked in our
large towns. In Broodleigh, if a man or
woman was sick, the Rectory and the
larger farmers' houses were immediately
applied to, and the sick person became
their care. Here sickness meant isolation
nobody knew and nobody cared. There
w r ere hundreds ready to press into the
vacant places, and the sufferers, living or

dying, were matters of indifference to
every one except themselves.

Every possible employment for women
seemed besieged by eager crowds of
applicants, ready almost to fight, if need
be, to secure the starvation wages that
alone were paid for the lower forms of
work. For really skilled hands in almost
every trade there was a fair demand, but
for mere labour that had received no very
special training, the market was not only
overstocked, but overflowing.

At last, after infinite pains and trouble,
he succeeded in getting some of the
coarser work connected with artificial
flower-making, which Fiarnetta could doat
home. It was wretchedly paid, so
wretchedly paid, indeed, that by working
from morning to night she could only
earn from seven to eight shillings a week ;
but she had the advantage of being able
to work at home, and could thus avoid
the unpleasantness of factory life. Perhaps

Fiametta would not have objected
to going out to her work so much as David
did for her; but he settled that point
without even asking her opinion on the
matter.

David had been a good deal concerned by
the change in Miss Hatchard's manner
towards him since his return, for he could
in no way account for it. He puzzled
himself in trying to find out how he could
have offended her, but could not recollect
doing anything of the sort. He tried to
propitiate her in many little ways, but
nothing seemed to make any difference in
her continued coldness. At last he determined
to get at her through her art.

He knew that she was poor, and always
had been so, but just at present he fancied,
from a few words of Fiametta's, that she
was unusually short of work. He had

brought back with him as a present from
his mother a photographic album, containing
portraits of herself and Fanny  Mr.
Burney had never been subjected to the
trying and often humiliating ordeal of
photography. Mrs. Everest's birthday
was approaching, and David considered
that a copy of Fanny's photograph, done
in oils, would be a suitable present for
him to give her. Fanny had been so
long an inmate of the house, that such a
proceeding could scarcely be interpreted
as a lover-like attention on his part.

Armed with this photograph, he
accordingly made his way up to Miss
Hatchard's studio one morning before
going to his office.

Come in," said Miss Hatchard, somewhat
ungraciously, in answer to his
knock. " It's you, is it, Mr. Everest ? I
thought as you went to your office before
now."

"There is only one thing that could

insure my being at my office at ten
o'clock in the morning," answered David,
gravely, " and that would be my office
coming to me. I don't approve of ruining
my constitution by early rising."

You won't ruin yourself, never fear,"
retorted Miss Hatchard ; " it's more in
your line to ruin other people, I take it.
Now, Mr. Everest, I can't stop my work
to talk to you. Time is money, that's
what it is with me."

I wish that was the principle adopted
by the Civil Service," replied David,
then I should have, at least, a prospect
of being able to earn the wages of a good
mechanic in a few years' time. But what
I came to you about, Miss Hatchard, was
some work of yours, only you have made
me so nervous I can hardly tell you about
it. May I take a chair ? "

Yes," said Miss Hatchard, rather
softened in manner.

It may have occurred to you," said

David, " in one of your unoccupied
moments, that I have a mother. Whether
it has occurred to you or not, it is a fact,
and not an uncommon one among men, I
believe. In the course of nature she hasa
birthday, and I, being, as I am sure
you must have observed, a very pattern
of dutiful and obedient sons, desire to
make her a little present on the happy
occasion. It has occurred to me that
the portrait of the young lady who has
graced our humble home and shed a
beam of  what do you call it ?  fill in
the blanks in your own poetic language
would be a suitable offering. Do you
follow me?"

"You want the portrait painted of the
girl you played lawn tennis with in your
holidays, I suppose? "

The very same. This is her photograph.
Now, Miss Hatchard, will you
do it, as large as life and twice as natural,
and sue me for the damages afterwards ? "

Miss Hatchard paused, and looked long
at the photograph. She had never paused
in accepting a commission to paint before,
and this was one of the best offers she
had ever had in her life.

I couldn't do it for less than five
pounds," she said, and not at all in the
tone of a person who has received any
kind of benefit from the person addressed.

"Done," said David. "I shall not
want it before the end of November, so
you can take your time over it."

"Well," said the little artist, evidently
struggling to keep back her native kindliness
from showing itself in her voice and
face, and not succeeding very well, "I
am much obliged for the order, and will
do it as well as I can; but you mustn't
expect a first-class painting from me, you
know."

"Make it like; reproduce those features,
them hair, they bangles," said David,
sentimentally. " That is all I ask."

What colour is her 'air ? "

David stared at his questioner.

Hum  colour ? Oh, an ordinary sort
of colour, you know, like most girls'
hair." Then, brightening up, he added,
But I can get my mother to send mea
bit of it."

Oh, of course you don't know,"
observed Miss Hatchard, sarcastically.
Better ask for a bit of her eyes at the
same time. I suppose you don't know
what colour they are either ? "

"Blue," said David, promptly. "I
know they are blue ; I have seen them."

"Well, how else would you know?"
snapped Miss Hatchard. "I'll go bail
you've seen 'em."

I stake my life on that," said David,
solemnly.

I essay. Now about her dress ? "

My country calls me," replied David,
looking at his watch, "calls me in the
most persistent manner, by reminding me

through my internal machinery that if I
don't start soon I shall be too late for
the beefsteak pie at the restaurant,
where I take my humble meal at one 
plate of pie, pint of porter, bread ; one
shilling; no fees to waiters.' Good-bye,
Miss Hatchard. I will turn the question
of the dress over in my mind, and let
you know again ; " and David, with a low
bow to Miss Hatchard, and a kiss of the
hand to the photograph, w T went downstairs
and out of the house.

"Well, if that ain't the very surprisingly
young man," soliloquised Miss
Hatchard, looking meditating at the
portrait of Fanny, " as ever I come
across ! You never can tell whether hein
earnest or not. But one thing is
clear, he has given me a good order ; not
that I like taking it, though, either. Of
course it's for 'im. I take it T can see
through that there rubbish of 'is about
'is mother. He's going to marry er',

of course ! Oh, what deceivers men is !
And 'e a carrying on like he do with
Fiametta walks and talks, and I dunno
what all, and a pretending to be so
anxious to get her something' to do  to
get her away from her par and me, that's
what I believe he's up to. No, young
man, you don't get that precious child
out o' my sight, I can tell you ! " And
Miss Hatchard gave quite a vicious dab
at her painting.

Now, you know," continued Miss
Hatchard after a pause, and shaking her
brush at the unoffending photograph,
that you've got money  an 'heap of it 
and you ain't got nothing' else to recommend
you, I can see, with your pale eyes
and your know-nothing' face. You ain't
a patch upon 'er "  looking at a portrait
of Fiametta done by herself that hung
upon the wall  " to look at, nor you ain't
her beautiful ways, I can see ; for you are
heavy built, and thick limbed, and small

waisted. You ain't none of her elegance ;
for she is a growing elegant, only her
frocks is again her. If it weren't for
that there young deceiver," mused Miss
Hatchard, "the very first of that there
five pounds should go in a new dress for
her ; only it would make him admire her
more than ever, and go faster after her
than he is doing now, for she grows more
beautifully every day."

Miss Hatchard was right in one thing
at least  Fiametta was growing more
beautiful every day. Her creamy tinted
face was perhaps a trifle thin for a girl's,
but that was scanty fare and hard thinking,
but the lines of her chin and cheek
were faultless in curve and delicacy.
Her lustrous dark eyes had always been
beautiful, even in the days of their blankness
and despair ; now they were not so
restful as they had been, the old gloom
would settle over them for a while, but
every now and then it would break and

let some tender wistfulness take its place.
She was very beautiful, very sad, still
undeveloped in her rather square girlish
figure, but giving day by day greater
promise of exceeding loveliness.

When David had seen her first on his
return, he was astonished at the change
in her. It had never occurred to him that
she was beautiful before, any more than
that she was nearly a woman. Of course
he immediately contrasted her with the
woman he had just left, and Fanny came
out badly by the ordeal. It gave him
an uncomfortable feeling to put them
together in his mind, arid he did not doit
again, any more than he compared
Broodleigh with London. They were
entirely distinct in his mind, and he kept
them so. Fanny belonged to Broodleigh,
Fiametta to London. He would never
compare them again.

He was intensely interested in trying to
find something that Fiametta could do

to earn her own living. It was not only
that she was bent upon doing this, but
also that he saw that there was every
reason she should do it, both for her
present and future happiness. Her father
had changed very much of late ; his fierceness
was almost habitual to him, but was
accompanied by such a pinched and eager
look about his face that he must have
been quite a terror to some of the mild old
ladies who frequented the reading-room
of the British Museum. It made David's
heart ache to see him, his misery and
despair were so fearfully depicted on his
face and figure. David still helped him
secretly ; he could not see the man starve
before his eyes. He dared not give him
money openly, for fear of poor Fiametta's
anger and indignation. He had no wish
further to wring her poor bruised spirit.
But he gave him copying to do at the
Museum, work that he did not in the
least require done, though it gave him
vol. Ti. 25

an excuse for alms; but as often as not
this failed also.

"I have brought you your book," the
old man would say fiercely to him, as he
came into the reading-room after his
office hours. " Go and get some hireling
to do your clerk's work for you. My
researches occupy my time. Do you
think I am a slave to be driven to work
for my bread ? Get some one else to do
your work. I have my own work, my
own pleasures to attend to." And the
angry old man would fling the book down
on the table and depart, muttering to
himself ; and so David's well-meant effort
was frustrated.

With any one less sweet-tempered, or
less generally easy-going than David, a
very few of such refusals would have
effectually dried up the fountain of charity.
But David never appeared to remember
any of these little effusions. The day after
such an outbreak he would come up to

the old man with a book in his hand, and
say that he wanted a particular passage
copied, and place half a crown in the
book to show the place, and serenely
depart, apparently unconscious of the
scowls and muttered indignation of Mr.
Thorold.

Sometimes the old man would do the
work, sometimes would follow him and
fling money and book down before him,
and depart with a curse between his lips.
David was really getting quite thin with
the anxiety he suffered on behalf of the
attic lodgers.

Fiametta was very wretched, poor girl,
thinking of the money she owed him, and
she often alluded to it to him.

11 But, my dear girl," he remonstrated,
you know perfectly well that everybody
has a right to live, and that it is a
monstrous thing that some should possess
millions while others have not even
bread," using her own words against her.

So it is," she replied, with a hot
blush, for she felt his sarcasm ; " but you
have not millions."

I have a great deal more than many
people have," he answered. " You have
so thoroughly converted me, Fiametta,
that I feel it is positively wicked for me
to have beefsteak-pie for dinner, while
you have oatmeal. I wish you would
consent to put your theories into practice.
You are very inconsistent, and, to a truly
Liberal mind, that is the worst sin you
can commit."

She only smiled sadly, and shook her
head.

It would be no use your doing it,"
she said; "people would only say you
were a fool. No ; it must be done by the
nation at large, not by one man. If you
really cared about the movement, you
would do your best to spread its teachings."


Head the correspondence in Echo, as

you do," answered David. "Well, I
don't mind doing that, if Miss Hatchard
will lend it to me when you and she have
done with it. I believe it often contains
some excellent jokes ; but I should not
like to be seen buying it at a bookstall,
that would be too serious. Why, people
w r ould think I was a Liberal."

Didn't you say I had converted you ? "
Oh, well, you are a Socialist, not an
ordinary Liberal. You have been logical
enough to go on to the end. I take it
that even a steady Conservative like myself
can have a pretty little excrescence
of that sort growing out of him, like a
mistletoe on an oak, that doesn't interfere
with his real life and principles. Some
Conservatives believe with Sir Charles
Lyell about flint implements, and some
believe otherwise, but it doesn't affect
their political careers, or the morality of
their lives. So with me. I believe in
Socialism as you expound it to me, but

it doesn't affect me otherwise. I shall
vote straight for all that."

Vote against the liberty of the people,
you mean."

"No, my dear; vote for yours and my
liberty, and let the police look after the
other people. I don't see why you and I
should be hectored and bothered and
inspected because a few unprincipled
scoundrels break the laws. I am for
personal liberty. Liberty to take you out
for a walk this evening, without being-asked
for my passport at the door. Come
along."

"No," she said; "I am going to stay
with Miss Hatchard."

But it ended in her going for the walk
and meeting that worthy lady's reprimand,
with the remark that this was a free land,
and she was going to please herself; a
statement that occasioned more uneasiness
to the little artist than such an announcement
should naturally have done.

Iii fact, Miss Hatchard was getting
seriously alarmed about Fiametta. She
had hoped that the portrait w r ould have
had a good effect upon her, for she took
good care to impress upon her mind that
David was evidently in love with this
blue-eyed lady.

I am glad to hear it," said Fiametta,
composedly. " Now you will not talk
any more nonsense to me on the subject."

But this had not satisfied Miss Hatchard
at all. She watched the girl anxiously
and nervously, and was far from being
well pleased at her intimacy with David
being renewed. She was a shrewd little
woman, and knew more of David's actions
towards old Mr. Thorold than either of
them had any idea of. She knew how
valuable this help was, that in fact it kept
them from starvation, for Fiametta's work,
being of course unskilful to begin with,
could not possibly have supplied them
with food and lodging ; so she had not the

heart to alienate Fianietta from him
altogether. She also doubted her power
of doing so, for though the story she proposed
to tell her was sufficiently dreadful
in her own eyes, it might make very little
impression upon a girl of an obstinate
nature like Fiametta's.

She fretted a good deal, for she believed
that David meant ill towards the girl he
seemed to help, and to Miss Hatchard's
distorted vision this very help so insidiously
given was but to prepare thew
r ay for the girl's ultimate ruin. That
David would ever even contemplate
marrying her, she did not believe. He
had certainly shown no signs of ever
wishing to do so, and there w 7 as every
reason to believe that he was engaged to
Fanny, except that he had not actually
said so in so many words ; but Miss
Hatchard had put such adroit questions
to him that she had, she considered, ample
evidence that such an engagement existed.

David, as may easily be imagined, was
not desirous of talking about Fanny,
indeed, he avoided doing so in a way that
was rather marked, and thus afforded
additional suspicion to his busy little
watcher.

He, of course, was perfectly unconscious
of both her scrutiny and her suspicions,
and was only pleased to have gained to a
slight extent his old familiar footing with
her. It was not in many women's natures,
certainly not in Miss Hatchard's, to be
able altogether to withstand the attractiveness
of David's manner when he choose
to put on his most winning ways. In
spite of what she thought of him, and
believed she had reason to fear of him,
Miss Hatchard was obliged to admit him
to a certain degree of intimacy, which
the painting of the portrait considerably
furthered.

David was very particular about this
portrait, and though careful not to take

up too much of the artist's time, yet
delayed matters a good deal by being
very minute in his desires over the smallest
details, so it took a good while to finish,
though no undue amount of time was
really occupied over the work.

Mr. Fowler's marriage had taken place
towards the end of July. Nellie and he
had gone out early in the morning, and
had been married in a gaunt and dismal
church in Bloomsbury that was all pews
and whitewash and memorial tablets  a
place in which the vanity of all things
seemed most awfully demonstrated, and
that struck a chill into the tender soul of
the poor little bride.

David was the only unofficial person
present. He had escorted Mr. Fowler
there, signed his name in the vestry, congratulated
the bride, who was sadly in
need of congratulations, poor little soul !

for she was thinking of the anne w T ho had
been as a mother to her, and it was
forlorn to be the only woman present
at her wedding. David had been very
gloomy until he saw her tears. In his
present frame of mind there was something
portentous and very awful in a
marriage, and the idea that some day
he might have to stand in his friend's
position, with Fanny by his side, gave
him an inexpressible sickening of the
heart.

But the forlornness of Nellie's piteous
little face touched him, and he laughed
and joked in the vestry, regardless of
the clergyman's solemn face, who had,
perhaps, seen too many marriages to think
lightly of any, and he ultimately succeeded
in sending the child-bride away
with her face dimpling with laughter,
her handkerchief forgotten, and a light
dancing in her eyes.

The Fowlers were not coming back

to Harcourt Street for a while. Mr.
Fowler had had some unpleasant encounters
with Mrs. Doddss, relative to his
proposal to bring his young wife there,
and his spirit being roused, he bad given
that worthy matron notice to quit, which
was not at all what Mrs. Doddss wanted,
for Harcourt Street was not a favourite
residence of the lodger tribe. She tried
to conciliate the little man, but he was
firm in his decision, and took lodgings
for his bride in Bayswater, as being a
more cheerful neighbourhood for her to
dwell in.

Their wedding trip was a very modest
one. They spent the day at Hampton
Court, wandering about the sweet old-fashioned
gardens, and lunching under
the trees in Bushy Park, and then, as the
shades of evening drew on, they returned
to town.

tC I am afraid, darling," said Mr. Fowler,
as they stood in their little sitting-room

in Melbourne Park Terrace, "that you
will find it very small and poor after
your aunt's nice house."

Oh, but I don't like big rooms ! "
cried the girl. She was in that rapturous
state of mind in which a loving woman
finds herself when she is called upon to
make some sacrifice for the man she
loves. " I like these nice little snug
rooms. They do not feel so lonely."

Y-yOu think you can be happy here,
my love ? ' '

Oh yes, Frederick, quite, quite happy.
I shall look after these dear little rooms
for you, and keep them always nice and
bright. Do you suppose the landlady
will let me rub the furniture ? "

C-certainly, my love."

And, oh, Frederick, do you think she
will let me learn to cook ? "

"I  I don't know, darling; but we
would get a cooking stove if you would
like to learn."

Oh, you are a darling! But what
are these parcels on the table ? "

"Dear me ! " said Mr. Fowler, peering
at them. " W-w-why, this is most extraordinary.
I only left one here. It
must be from David."

Oh, how kind of him ! And, oh ! do
you see, darling? It's a sweet little
kettle on a stand, with a spirit lamp
underneath ! How very thoughtful of
him ! Now I can make your breakfast
and tea all by myself."

Dear me, how v-v-very kind of him !
I always told you, my love, that David
was the kindest of men."

So he is, I am sure. But what is
this other parcel?"

Tat-tat," stammered Mr. Fowler,
bashfully, " is a little p-p-p-present from
me, darling. I  I  I don't know what presents
are usually made on these occasions ;
b-but I remembered what you had told
me about your tastes the first day we ever

met. Y-y-you remember that delicious
evening, don't you, darling ? So I thought
I could not do better than get you a
workbox. I should like it to have been
of ivory, b-b-but it is only of wood."

"It's the dearest, loveliest, perfected
box I ever saw!" cried the bride, in
raptures. " How kind of you to get it forme
! Oh, a place for the buttons, and for
the tapes ! I never saw anything like it.
And, oh ! actually a thimble, and different
sizes of cottons ; and, I declare, a bodkin !
Oh, you are a dear ! "

"I told them to fit it up for a young
lady who liked plain sewing," said Mr.
Fowler, modestly. " And you really think
you can be happy here ? "

"I am delightfully happy," answered
Nellie, putting her arm about her husband's
neck and giving him a kiss. " I
shall always be happy when with you."
Mrs. Fowler suddenly stopped, looked
round the room, and then cried, " But,

oh, Frederick darling, where are your
slippers ? "

M-m-my slippers, love ? I  I don't
wear slippers."

"Oh, Frederick!" and a shade stole
over Mrs. Fowler's pretty face; "oh,
darling, wives always put their husband's
slippers to warm before they come home.
I know they do ; at least, all nice wives in
books do. Oh, Frederick, it won't seem
like being married if I can't do that.
Promise me, love, that you will get a pair
of slippers."

C-certainly, love ; b-b-but won't it
be rather warm now ? It's such mild
weather, you know, sweet."

But Mrs. Fowler only shook her pretty
little head.

Good wives always do it," she said ;
and I am going to be a very good wife."

And so Mr. Fowler certainly thought
she was. They lived in the little house
in Bayswater in great contentment for

vol. ir. 26

two months ; but Mr. Fowler, growing
suspicions of a doctor's carriage that
appeared outside the door twice a day
regularly, and making inquiries, discovered
that the upstairs lodger was ill
with scarlet fever. In great terror for his
young wife, Mr. Fowler rushed off to
David, as his counsellor in all difficulties.
David, knowing that Mrs. Doddss's ground
floor was still vacant, advised him to
return, and this was happily arranged to
take place on the same day, so Mr.
Fowler again became an inmate of No. 16,
Harcourt Street, towards the beginning
of October.

Mr. Heverest's compliments, and heave
'ad a basket from the country this
morning, and would Mrs. Fowler please
accept of these 'ere ? " said Sarah Ann,
the next day, as Mr. and Mrs. Fowler sat
at breakfast, putting her head as far in at
the door as she could, so as to get a good
view of the bride.

Oh, how kind ! " cried Nellie, in
delight; for " these 'ere" consisted of a
bunch of autumn roses, in all their
crimson and golden glory, and a basket of
apples and pears.

Dear me, how very kind of Everest ! "
said Mr. Fowler, highly gratified at this
mark of attention to his wife. "E-r-really,
my love, I think I ought to go up and
thank him."

"Yes, do, darling; and, oh, tell him
how pleased I am ! The roses, and the
fruit, and everything, are they not delicious
? Frederick, you must wear one
in your coat."

E-r-really, my love, I n-n-n-never did
such a thing in my life."

But you must now," cried Mrs.
Fowler, seizing him by the front of his
coat. " Here is a lovely bud ; stand still,
Frederick, while I pin it in. Now you
look so nice."

B-b-but, my love, I "

Oh, you must wear it, darling, to
please me;" and Mr. Fowler went meekly
on his way, feeling very uncomfortable in
his floral decoration.

David was not in his room, but an
empty hamper was, and Mr. Fowler, from
the sound of voices that came from
thence, rightly judged his friend to be
upstairs.

"You must," David was saying; "I
shall have the most fearful and horrible
indigestion if you won't help me get
through with these things. Mothers
always stuff their sons when they are
comforts to them, as I am. My mother's
opinion of my appetite is simply frightful.
I have brought you the small fowls, I
have really ; and if you won't have
them, I will throw them out of window.
I am not going to ruin my digestion by
consuming half a dozen fowls. Miss
Hatchard, make her listen to reason."
Well, Fiametta, as Mr. Everest have

offered the same to me, I think you mayas
well 'ave them. Fowls won't keep ;
and if, as he say, he have another pair
downstairs "

An awfully big pair," put in David.

"Well, then, I think you had better
have them."

"It's simple charity," said David;
and as for the flowers, I hate a lot of
mess about my rooms. I can't think
what possessed my mother to put them
in."

Perhaps the young lady did it  her ! "
said Miss Hatchard, pointing to the
portrait.

David changed colour. Miss Hatchard
saw it, and triumphed.

"Perhaps so," he said carelessly; "but
I hate cut flowers, so they can be swept
up ; " and he tossed them carelessly onto
the floor.

No ; I will have them," said Fiametta,
suddenly ; and she stooped and picked

them up. " They are very beautiful,"
she said; then selecting a particularly
lovely one from the rest, she handed it to
him and said, " You should keep this one
in remembrance of the girl who sent them
to you."

"I don't want any remembrance of
her," replied David, and then stopped.
At least," he went on, "there is no
occasion for any, and I don't like cut
flowers."

There was rather an awkward pause.
Miss Hatch ard would not break it, but
went on with her painting. Fiametta
held the roses in her hand, and David
stood looking at her.

You ought to be painted with roses,"
he said at last, his thoughts having gone
in quite a different direction from those of
the two women, who were both thinking
of Fanny ; " they are your flowers."

No," she said, throwing them down;
they are not mine. They are good

decorous garden flowers ; they would suit
her "  pointing to the picture  " not me.
Poppies are my flowers  flaming, passionate
flowers, with a sleepy poison in their
heart. They are harmless enough until
they are crushed, then they poison those
who put them to their lips."

She flashed upon him with a sudden
anger in her great eyes, and left them
loth, treading on the fallen roses as she
did so, and went away into her own
room.

David and Miss Hatchard looked at
each other.

She is an odd girl  a very odd girl,"
said the woman, in a curious hard voice,
Got a touch of her father about her
sometimes, don't ye think so ? " And she
peered at him with her small bright eyes.

God forbid ! " he said hastily, and
walked away to the window.

"I have heard tell," continued Miss
Hatchard, dabbing her brush against her

canvas, but looking keenly at her visitor
the while, " as how there is something'
queer about her family, and anybody kin
see as how the old man is mad."

The life they have led is enough to
make them so," returned David, quickly ;
"it doesn't follow that there is insanity
in the family. Is she often like this ? "
he asked.

Oh, I dunno," replied Miss Hatchard,
squeezing some blue paint out of a tube
on to her palette ; " 'pears to me as she
is a bit flighty sometimes."

"Miss Hatchard," said David, slowly
turning and facing her, " you pretend to
be her friend, and say this ? "

If it's true, it can be spoke, I repose."

Not by those who call themselves her
friends. Miss Hatchard, I did not think
this of you."

There was so much grave reproof in
David's tones that Miss Hatchard grew
visibly uneasy.

I shouldn't say it to nobody but you,"
she explained, unable to keep from justifying
herself ; "onlytoycu." Considering
that she did not in the least believe what
she was saying, this was undoubtedly true.

You should never say it to anybody,"
said David ; " it is cruel to her father, and
a libel upon her."

Well, I won't," said Miss Hatchard.
"But you can't deny yourself, Mr. Everest,
as she is very queer."

So would you or I be if we had led
her life," retorted David, going towards
the door. " You will see that she has the
fowls cooked, won't you ? "

Oh yes, I'll see to that," said the
artist ; " and thank you for the same."

Well, I dunno as I've done much
good by that," she thought, as David
went down ; " but perhaps the idea will fix
itself in his mind after all ; and it's clear
enough the old man is mad to my thinking,
though not a mite nor morsel of it is

about her, poor dear. She is odd; but,
Lor, anybody may be odd ! "

David met Mr. Fowler on the first-floor
landing.

M-m-my dear Everest, how very kind
of you ! M-m-m-my w-w-wife," stammered
Mr. Fowler, blushing furiously, " is delighted."


All right ; you will get used to it intime,"
said David. " You can come up
here and practise during the daytime if
you like."

W-w-won't you come down and see
her ? " stammered Mr. Fowler.

I can't stay now," said David, looking
at his watch; " I'll come and call this
evening."

And so he did, and Mrs. Fowler insisted
upon making some tea for him with her
own hands, out of the wonderful kettle.
As an act of friendship it was very
pleasing, as a cup of tea it was decidedly
a failure, no one of the party being quite

clear as to when the water boiled, while
Nellie anticipated that event by blowing
out the spirit lamp as soon as the kettle
began to hum gently.

But both David and Mr. Fowler declared
it was the best tea they ever drank ;
and Mr. Fowler honestly believed he was
speaking the truth, and David would have
told ten times the amount of untruth, had
that been possible, to keep the tears out
of the little bride's eyes when she saw the
lukewarm, washy fluid that came out of
the teapot, after an anxious ten minutes
had been spent in watching it " draw."
So they spent a very pleasant evening,
and David enlisted Mrs. Fowler's sympathies
to their fullest extent in behalf of
Fiametta, which was his real object in
spending the evening with them.

Mrs. Fowler professed herself ready todo
anything and everything for the unfortunate
girl, and felt most deliciously old
and matronly at having her advice asked

and being made a party to certain little
schemes for the girl's good.

"It will be a great thing for her,"
David said at parting, "to have you for
her friend. Fancy, poor child, she has
never even spoken to a lady. Miss
Hatchard, the artist upstairs, is very kind,
but she is not quite a lady. Still, she has
been a good friend; but now that Miss
Thorold is getting to be a woman, she
naturally requires some other companionship.
You will not mind her being a
little vehement and odd sometimes ? "

Oh no, not a bit, poor thing ! And
oh, Frederick, you know how I used to
complain because I had to go to lectures''
and Mrs. Fowler's gentle eyes
tilled with tears.

She will be a great deal the better
and happier for your friendship," said
David, cheerily; and with a heart considerably
lightened he went up to his own
room.

Fiametta," said David to her the next
day, as they took their accustomed short
walk round the squares in the evening
(she could not spare the time to go to the
park now), " you know Mr. Fowler, who
has come back to the ground floor ? He
has got married."

Indeed," she answered, but gave no
appearance of interest to the remark.

Yes ; and to such a pretty little wife.
They ran away because her aunt wanted
her to marry somebody else, so she is
without friends, and is very lonely when
her husband goes to his work. I wish
you would go and see her."

Nobody comes to see me," answered
the girl, gloomily, " and I have no husband
; why should I go and see her ? "

Because it will be kind of you to do
so."

I hate what you call kindness. It is
what has brought the world to this pass ;
for it makes those who can get it contented,

so they will not raise a finger for
all those who have to live without it and
suffer. I care too much for the unhappy-ones
to be c kind ' to those who are prosperous."


"But she is not prosperous. Her
husband is poor, and she has alienated
all her friends."

She has her husband, and will be
happy with him. She does not want me,
nor I her."

She would like to know you very
much; she is interested in you."

I am not an object of charity."

You are at present, for I am exercising
all my charity not to give you a good
scolding for being so unkind to me.
Why won't you do as I ask you ? "

Because there is no reason why I
should do so. Mr. and Mrs. Fowler are
not poor and in misery. You do not ask
me to go into St. Giles, and New Compton
Street, and see the people there, or worse

places than those where I have gone and
talked with the people. Did you know
that at one time I distributed papers in
the public houses on Saturday nights in
Newport market ? "

Good gracious ! no, child. You horrify
me. You in a public-house in Newport
market ! "

"Yes. I saw some pamphlets in a
man's workshop. He was a cobbler, and
lame, so he could not take them about,
so I offered to do so. They were translations
from Russian and French socialist
papers, and they went straight to the
point, I can assure you. The police got
scent of it at last, and I had a hint to
desist before I was caught. It would
have been no use my being caught, and
all the papers were gone, so I stayed
away from there for a while. I have
never been able to get any more since."

David walked by her side in silence for
some time. He was really too much

surprised and shocked to say anything at
first, and curiously enough it was not the
papers he thought so much of as the fact
that this young and beautiful girl had
been in those loathsome dens, and had
seen the sights and heard the language
that must have gone on there. It gave
him a deeper horror than anything he
had ever felt.

"Fiametta, my poor child, I don't
know how to explain my horror ! "

The papers were right," she replied,
with a blaze of anger in her eyes, and
turning sharply round upon him; " they
were quite right. I glory in having put
them into men's hands. They told them
to free themselves  the cowards not to
have done it already ! They told them of
the tyranny of the rich, and the cursed
pretended distinctions of classes ; and
they bid them strike for our common
liberty and our common rights."

"I am not thinking of the papers," he



said, looking at her earnestly, " but of
you  for you. to go among such scenes,
to be in such places ! "

They were not nice," she replied,
with a little shiver. " I saw some sights
I do not like to think about. A woman
choking a little child with gin, and then
flinging it across the bar ; a man striking
his poor pale, starved wife ; two little
children drunk together. But I wish,"
she added, raising her head and sweeping
her hand towards the houses in Russell
Square  " I wish I could drag the people
that live here, and there, and there, all
these solid, respectable, decent ladies and
gentlemen, into those places  ay, and
keep them there for a bit. They might
think differently of their dainty selves
when they saw their brothers and sisters."

Don't talk of it," said David; "I
can't bear to think of it."

No ; you are dainty, too," she said,
flashing her dark eyes upon him in her

vol. n. 27

disdain. " You have not the soul of a
spider, or you would never rest while all
that sin and misery goes on about you."

"But what did you do? You only
taught them to visit the sins of the
fathers upon the children. What have
these people here done to bring about
that state of things? Why should they
be punished ? "

They are keeping it up," she persisted,
" pretending that they have
superior rights to the poor. They seem
to forget that even your Christ was poor."

You needn't give me a monopoly of
Christianity," said David. " Besides," he
added, in rather a more solemn tone than
was usual to him, " you seem to forget
that he is your Christ as well as mine.
However, keeping theology out of it, who
is pretending anything about superior
rights ? No one claims any more than
the right to enjoy and hold possession
of that which their own labours or that

of their fathers created, and their own
self-denial or self-restraint, or that of
their fathers, has preserved to them."

Their own labour, indeed ! " replied
Fiametta, contemptuously. " Is it their
own labour that makes their houses
increase in value year after year while
they sit with folded hands ? "

The people in Russell Square, to
whom you seem to refer," said David,
mostly rent their houses of the Duke
of Bedford. But that is a mere detail."

Well, the Duke of Bedford, then."

She has been running her pretty
head up against our old friend the unearned
increment, and after that it's all
hopeless ! When lovely woman stoops to
political economy, and finds too late that
there is such a thing as an unearned

increment, why then I don't know

what then. Generally it is the State, or
the poor, or somebody who hasn't got it,
that is to step in and collar this unearned

increment. Very well, will the State, or
the poor, or somebody who hasn't got it,
pay up the unearned decrement when
it comes, as it precious soon will under
that form of government. "Which, however,
is not an original idea of mine.' ,

You are scoffing at me," cried the
girl. " You are as cruel as any of them.
You know very well that all property is
theft."

I don't know anything of the sort."

But it is Proudhon who says so, ' La
propriety c'est la vol.' "

"I don't know Mr. Proudhon," said
David, "but if he is a real Frenchman
lie probably said ' le vol ' ; but that again
is a mere detail. Meanwhile, who is he
that should bring us a new revelation of
this sort ? Moses  you may have heard
of him, my dear; he wrote part of an
apparently obsolete work called the Bible
discountenanced stealing quite as much
as Mr. Proudhon, and yet his elaborate

rules with respect to inheritance show that
he acknowledged the possession and
descent of property as a rightful thing.
I think I agree with Moses, if I may
presume to say so."

Of course you do. You belong to
your State-paid Church that grinds down
the poor."

The Church of England, to which I
have the honour to belong, is not State-paid,
though many people erroneously
call it so. But if it were, it w r ould be none
the worse a Church. I am a State-paid
man, though shamefully underpaid considering
the work I  leave undone ; but
I am none the worse a man for that.
You show too great a disregard for details,
Miss Thorold; and, moreover, you are
getting excited. Let me give you one
little bit of advice. Don't think so much
of humanity at large, but more of individuals
in particular  in fact, of details.
Try and make somebody happy."

No," she said sorrowfully as she
shook her head, and a melancholy, tender
light stole over her dark eyes  " no ; it is
the happiness of the few that keeps so
many wretched. Every grain of happiness
added to the fortunate holds them
back from rescuing the miserable. Those
who are happy do not care to hear of
misery. If the fortunate few could be
made miserable, they would try and help
their wretched sisters and brothers, not
ignore them'

Where do you get such fancies from,
child ? "

"Fancies!" she cried, flashing her
dark wild eyes upon him. " Yes, to you
they are fancies, perhaps. See the sights
that I have seen ! No ; you are too dainty
for that. You will go and see Mrs. Fowler
instead ; she is pleasant company than
my sisters, who work seventeen hours a
day to give their children dry bread."

Won't you go and see Mrs. Fowler
too?"

No, I will not. I should be wronging
my wretched sisters by doing so."

Very well, my dear. Here we are at
home. Will it make you miserable by
giving me a kiss ? If so, indulge your
eccentricity."

Her only answer was an angry glitter
in her eyes, and a hasty withdrawal of
her hand from his grasp, and she went
rapidly up the stairs to her own room.

David paused for a moment and looked
after her. He felt a little uncomfortable.

I wonder if she is angry? " he said.
Really she is very interesting. I
wonder if all girls are equally so w 7 hen one
gets to know them."

i

The garrets were both dark when Fiametta
reached them. No gleam from the
street gas-lamps reached their windowless
height. The dirty skylight was buta
pale patch in the roof, but no light
came through it into the rooms below.
She struck a match and lit their little
lamp, and looked about for her father.
He was generally at home long before
this, for the days of electric light at the
British Museum were then in the misty
future. He was not in, and had evidently
not been in at all, for his papers had not
been touched since the morning. Her
own flower-making materials lay beside
them just as she had left them.

There had been no fire in the grate
all day, though the weather had been
chill and cold. It seemed scarcely worth
while to light one now, as her father had
not come in, and it was getting late ; so
she cut herself a slice of bread and butter,
and drank some cold tea that had been
left from the morning for her evening
meal, and then took up her work.

Perhaps her fingers were cold, or her
brain too busy with thoughts away from
her work, for she did not succeed very
well, spoilt one or two flowers, and then
in a fit of despair pushed the things from
her, and, leaning her elbows on the table,
rested her forehead upon her hands in
her favourite childish attitude for thinking.

Her thoughts were not pleasant. Poor
Fiametta's rarely were. For a girl of
her eager passionate spirit, with a strong
disposition to turn over in her mind
and brood upon matters beyond her
reach, her solitary pinched life had been

the very worst possible training. Her
only companion had been the grim monomaniac,
her father  the worst companion
under the circumstances she could have
had, for it intensified in a markedly
morbid manner her natural tendency to
secret and hopeless brooding.

Think of her life  a girl with the traditions
and feelings of an artistic, beauty-loving
race within her, a heart capable of
great and passionate attachment, a spirit
brave enough to face an empire, a courage
w r ell-nigh dauntless, an intellect above
the average of women's, and, to crown
all, promise of beauty such as is rarely
seen among the daughters of men. She
had lived in a bare, rotten old garret ina
filthy, noisy street, with not even a
glimpse of pure sky visible to her, with
no friends, no pursuits, no books, save
some French and Italian dictionaries and
grammars, by the help of which, and with
some instruction from her father, she had

attained a moderate acquaintance with
the tw 7 o languages. Of other education
she had none, absolutely none, save what
she had gathered for herself in her
wanderings in the streets, and in the
reading of cheap newspapers, and, most
unfortunately for herself, a few socialist
works that had been given her by a
former lodger in the house.

These books were ordinary works
enough in one sense, but in them was
all the romance and enthusiasm that
ever came across the girl's life. She
knew what the poverty and the misery
of the poor actually was ; she saw and
felt it  felt it like a grinding pain about
her life ; until she read these books
she had never dreamt of any release
from it. They were the one thing
needful to bring into full tide that great
torrent of enthusiasm that was part of
her nature. She had precisely the
natural qualifications for a social revolutionist

 an absolute disregard of herself,
her own life, and happiness ; a hearty
contempt for cowardice or fear of any
sort. She could have met death itself
quite calmly. She had no ties of affection
or kindred that pressed heavily upon
her. Her father had never sought or
desired her love or confidence, and she
knew no one else. She had that quality,
so curious and rare in a woman  the
capability for great devotion to a cause
without any personal feeling of any sort
coming into it. She did not seem to
feel the need of any love in her life ;
she was young still, it is true, but girls
before they are eighteen have confidential
and wonderfully attached female friends,
if they are not actually in love. It is
a rare thing to meet with a girl who
has no bosom friend, never had, and
never wished to have one. Fiaruetta had
been alone all her life until  and this
sort of until, it is generally believed,

comes to every woman at some time 
until she met David.

But even with him she had to be
drawn on by very slow degrees, and with
a very slack cord, and it was David who
was desirous of the friendship all along,
not Fiametta. There was not the least
deception in her telling him she did not
want him. She was perfectly sincere,
and really felt no need for his care or
affection. Her heart seemed to have gone
out of her, or to have been all absorbed
in the enthusiasm of her spirit.

David had, after the manner of men,
conceived an idea of the girl and stuck
to it. He believed her socialism and
enthusiasm to be a mere half-caught
fancy, and treated it accordingly, never
seeing the importance it was to her ;
that it, in fact, held all that she had
ever known of beauty, poetry, love,
happiness  all that a girl holds dear.
He never dreamt how his jokes and

jeers lived in the girl's mind, and were
brooded over by her in her long lonely
hours. In all his life he had never been
so cruel to any one as he was to poor
Fiametta, and in all his life he had never
so exerted himself to be kind to any one
as to her.

He had become a great deal to her,
of course ; his words would not have had
so much effect upon her otherwise. The
sudden introduction of a handsome young
man into a lonely girl's life is naturally
accompanied by some mental disturbance,
especially if that young man appears to
make it the object of his life to be
agreeable to the aforesaid girl. David
was constantly testifying by his acts that
he thought often of her. Nobody had
ever thought about her before. He was
always trying to brighten her life for her,
and paying her sundry little attentions
which not even the most untamed savage
female mind could quite resist : and

Fiametta was not a savage ; only passionate
and untaught, and grievously led
astray by the false preaching of what is
perhaps not, after all, a very remarkably
true doctrine.

She had thought far more about him
than he ever supposed she did, but she
also cared less. She was not a bit in
love with him. Not that David for an
instant imagined she was ; he only
believed her to have the same friendly
feelings towards himself that he had for
her. In point of fact, she had less, for
it was not in her to give a quiet cold
friendship. She would plunge headlong
into passionate love, or she would be
indifferent ; and so far she had had no
indication of love at all, and was
sceptical as to its very existence.

Poor child ! poor girl ! Every healthy
impulse in her stifled and ground down
by the force of her misguided, blinded
will ; every natural affection not only

without bud or flower, but apparently with
its very roots pulled up and flung away.
No joys, no pleasures, no beauty, no
prospect of anything but a starved and
miserable existence, and a hopeless death.
She had never been taught any Christianity.
Her mother had belonged to the
Italian party of freedom, and was therefore
above such small considerations as
belief in any future, except the future of
a hopeless Italy and an Italian king.
Her husband had been of the same faith,
or no faith, for of late years he had never
even thought of Italy, except to curse
the folly that had led to the melting of
his wife's coins into the money-pot of
the adventurers of " united Italy." His
wife's father and brother had perished
in the wars; there were no nearer relations
than some distant cousins, and by
this time he had forgotten even their
names, for all his thoughts were absorbed
in his own family pedigree. Eiametfca

knew little of her mother's family, except
that they had mostly perished in the
early part of the struggle for " freedom,"
that long - suffering and much - abused
word. What that particular freedom
was for which they suffered, or whether
it did any good to anybody, she did not
know, but she was proud of it, and
brooded over it, and fed her mind upon
it, to her own great hurt, for it stimulated
her to follow in their steps. This might,
of course, have been very well if she
had known what those steps were, or
whither hers were likely to take her.
With that disregard of details for which
David rebuked her, she plunged headlong
into grand feelings and lofty desires and
glorious sentiments, and never for a
moment questioned their perfect utility.

Fortunately for her  unfortunately, she
thought  she knew no one who could
help her to put any of her sentiments
into practice, supposing they could work

vol. ii. 28

in such harness. The seditious cobbler
had disappeared. The tracts had apparently
brought forth no fruit, or, if
they had, those concerned in the movement
did not invite the co-operation of
a friendless, unknown girl, as poor or
poorer than themselves. Fiametta could
do nothing but preach her ideas, and 
fatal objection to that  she had no
audience. She could not stop and address
people in the street ; she knew
no one personally out of the lodging-house.
The public-house bar, which is
about the only place where an audience
of working men can be assured at all
times, was closed to her by the "mean
and grasping spirit " of the publicans, who
did not find that she consumed gin herself
or led to its consumption by others.
So Fiametta's declamation at the bar was
effectually stopped, and she held thereafter
strong opinions on the demoralizing
effect of the drink traffic.

It is but fair both to her and the
publicans to say she made but a very
short struggle for this effort of hers to
bear fruit. It was just after the distribution
of the tracts that she tried
going to one or two public-houses without
the papers, and only her own voice to
instruct. She had been stopped at the
very beginning, most mercifully, by the
proprietors, and had never tried it again.
One can hardly think of a girl's doing
such a thing without a shudder.

Fiametta had not shuddered ; she had
been angry, very angry, but she was not
shocked. Evil things had been said
around her and to her, but they had
passed over her without harm. While
the fire of her enthusiasm was on her,
her girlhood, her very womanhood seemed
to leave her : she might have been
fashioned in ice for all the bodily presence
she felt. She was so completely
carried out of herself by the force of her

imagination and excitement, that she
had no consciousness of the coarseness
and insult that surrounded her ; she was
filled to overflowing with the message
of happiness she had to deliver.

She would have made a very good
saint had she been born in early days 
would have vied with Saint Theresa in
her visions, or Saint Rose of Lima in her
austerities. Also, had she had another
home, and another training, she might
have made an equally good sinner. She
had grand capabilities for both. No
member of the demi-monde could have
been more reckless than she could be ;
no great lady of the old torturing,
Inquisition times more cruel than she
could have been. Perhaps, after all, it
was a merciful dispensation of Providence
that made her a half-starved, impotent
socialist in a garret.

Is there any story, even in that collection
of the best stories in the w 7 old,

the Bible, that tells a tale of such long
unnoticed suffering as that of the impotent
man by the pool of Bethesda.
Eight and thirty years of pain, eight
and thirty disappointments. There was
not even hope left to the man, nothing
but patient resignation. But this was
after eight and thirty years. Think of
the sickening torture of the first few
years, the wild despair, the misery that
had been gone through before the uncomplaining
patience of the answer, " Sir,
I have no man, when the water is
troubled, to put me into the pool ; but
while I am coming, another stepped
down before me." Think of the suffering
and despair that wrought such calmness
after eight and thirty disappointments.

Fiametta had not lived yet to even one
half of those disappointments, without
counting the man's actual life, and she
was by no means patient under her impotence.
Perhaps he was not so at first.

And our heroine  she is our heroine,
for there is no woman with half her real
worth within these pages  was the very
reverse of patient or contented. The
very force of her misspent energy was
enough to keep her wild as a caged tiger.
She had all the qualifications for a leader
or a martyr, and even the martyrdom was
denied her. It must be uncomfortable
to be created for a martyr, and to find
no opportunity of exercising one's profession
.

Perhaps this chapter ought to have
come some way before in this book. It
is a digression just now, for Fiametta has
been left all this time brooding with her
head upon her hands in her solitary
garret. But it has been purposely delayed,
that the girl, whose strange vivid
character w T as as a match to the finely
spun, limp tow of David's nature, should,
little by little and by degrees, show
herself and her influence upon the easygoing,

sweet-tempered nature of our hero.
Gradually she had aroused in him that
one quality the absence of which his
mother deplored so often  ambition,
interest, activity, call it what you will.
He had no conception of it, of course ;
quite insensibly she had led him on in
entire ignorance herself of the proceeding ;
but from being a lazy, happy-go-lucky
youth, with no particular earnestness, and
no particular seriousness, he was rapidly
developing into a thoughtful and earnest
man, and the end and beginning and
middle of it all was Fiametta.

4&*

We left Fiametta sitting in the attic,
waiting for her father. He did not come
in until very late. He had evidently been
wandering about the streets for sometime,
for he was footsore and muddy.
He sank into a chair, and seemed unable
even to taste the food his daughter placed
before him. She gave him a little cold
tea, the strongest beverage they had, and
that revived him after a while ; but he
could not eat, though he had not tasted
food for some time.

"I have been insulted to-day," he said
hoarsely, as he pushed the plate away
from him; " insulted, and that by some

low bookworm of a fellow whose father
was a jailor, and his mother a thief."

Whom do you know with such a remarkable
pedigree ? " asked his daughter,
coldly.

Whom do I know r ? I tell you I know
none of them, they are not fit for a
gentleman to associate with. A pack of
book making scoundrels ! And they take
upon themselves to dictate to me  to me,
who have the blood of heroes in my veins ;
whose ancestors were great men when
theirs were at the plough-tail, if they ever
had any, that is."

And a fine thing our ancestors have
done for us," she answered. "Theirs,
at any rate, have taught them to earn
their own living decently."

I tell you they are insolent ,
who have crept into government
places by their servile crawling that no
gentleman could stoop to. Ah, that is
it ; no gentleman can compete with such

fellows. In these days any low-born
fellow has a gentleman at a disadvantage."


He stopped, and muttered to himself
under his breath, and kept pushing and
pulling about his papers in his old aimless
manner, arranging only to disarrange, and
taking up a paper to read only to put it
away unread. Meanwhile, his daughter
had begun her work again, and was going
on steadily with it.

It is a trick, a conspiracy ! " he began
again. " They know now that I am on
the right track. It was impossible but
that I should find it, after all these years.
They knew all along, but they would not
help a gentleman. They knew where those
old leases lay, of course they did ; they
knew they would help me  they kept them
back on purpose. On the right track at
last, though. Child, did I tell you I have
at last come upon the trace of old Sir
Thorold Thorold's eldest son John, who

lias been declared by my rascally cousin
to have died without an heir? I shall
prove it now, prove it all beyond a
doubt."

Is that what you are so angry
about ? "

Angry about ? Angry to find the proof
I have looked for so long ? Fiametta,
you must be mad ! I think you are sometimes,"
he went on, looking at her fixedly.
Mad, you must be mad, to take no
interest in all my researches. Like a girl,
you care only for the present, and your
finery."  It was a fiction of his that she
made the flowers for her own adornment ;
it had been found the only means to
prevent his destroying them, and Miss
Hatchard had fostered the idea.  "But
you will care when I get it all. Ha, ha !
Yes, women like to get all the fruits, and
share none of the toil of producing."

He was silent again for awhile ; then
he burst oat 

But, by God ! I will not bear it ; it
is too foul an insult ! Child, do you
believe that a man is any more or less of
a gentleman because of his clothes ? "

No," she said.

Ah, I knew you would be right. You
are a lady ; you know what is true in such
matters. These are only low r , ignorant
fellows, what should they know about
gentlemen? "

What about your clothes ? " she
asked.

He sprang upon his feet in the energy
of his rage, and shook his tattered garments
before her face.

This, and this, and this ! " he cried,
clutching at his threadbare coat, the
sleeves of which hung like fringes over his
fingers, and showing his worn and frayed
trousers, and his patched and broken
boots, of which the upper leather scarcely
clung to the soles. " These are what
they complain of. Did clothes ever make

a gentleman ! These cads, these cheats,
these thieves, they complain of my dress !
These upstarts, these beggars, these
scoundrels, presume to tell me that I am
not fit to sit in the same room as a
beggarly clerk, or a miserable pedagogue,
or some fantastical old women ! These 
these are the people who complain to the
officials that I, the heir to one of the
oldest properties in Kent, am not fit to
sit in the same room with them. The
grovelling, gutter-bred, low-born, plebeian
tradesmen ! "

What does it matter what they say ? "
she asked, as he paused in the torrent of
his rage to take breath.

I tell you they insult me ; they complain
of me as a nuisance ; they have
spoken of me to the officials, and they tell
me that if I do not dress better I must
stay away from the reading-room. It is
a conspiracy ; my cousin is at the bottom
of it. They have been bribed to get me

away, because they know that at last 1
have the proofs in my hands. Child "  and
he drew nearer and put his mouth to her
ear  " child, I have found a lease granted
by one Harvey Thorold, son of John
Thorold  John Thorold that James declares
to have died without issue. I know
better ; I always have known better, and
now here  here is the proof. Ha, ha !
And they think to keep me away because
of my clothes. They shall not find Stephen
Thorold so easily disposed of; no, indeed
! " And the old man hugged himself
in the ecstasy of his joy.

"But this lease? " asked his daughter.
Have you any proof that it is granted
by the same man ? There might have
been two John Thorolds. It is not a very
uncommon name."

He shook his clenched fist before her
eyes.

How dare you say such a thing tome?"
he shouted. "How dare you

question me ? You are a girl, an idiot ;
you do not understand such, things. Goto
your bed. Go away from my sight ! "

"It is time for you to go to bed, too,"
she answered quietly.

Her cold, even tones seemed to calm
him. He paused in his excited walk to
and fro, and, passing his thin hand over
his haggard chin, looked vacantly at her.

It is all for her sake," he said at last,
in a shrill whisper ; " all for her. Why
should I strive for riches, but for her?
Fiametta, wealth and prosperity are before
you!"

"Go to sleep now," she said gently,
while her dark eyes rested compassionately
upon him. It was not his poverty or his
disappointment that she pitied, but a
sudden tenderness for his wandering intellect
and his wavering understanding
swept over her. She had never pitied
him before. It had never occurred to her
to do so any more than to pity herself.

All her native tenderness of nature had
been turned back and distorted by the one
great passion of her life. Now, for the
first time, she suffered some touch of
natural feeling to overcome her. " Goodnight,
dear," she said; and she laid her
hand on the old man's shoulder and kissed
him.

Good night," he answered vacantly.
It's all for her, for my beautiful golden-haired
Fiametta ; " and he looked helplessly
at her. It was of his wife he was thinking.

His daughter went into her little room ;
but she did not go to bed until she knew
that he was safe in bed, and his candle
out, and then she slowly undressed herself,
and lay down, but no sleep came to
her eyes for many hours. When sleep
did come, it came heavily to her, and she
slept on long after her usual hour.

Daylight does not come very early to
Londoners in the beginning of October,
but it was well after daylight when Fia-meta

awoke. Having dressed herself
hastily, she went into the next room,
surprised to receive no answer from her
father to her inquiries if he was dressed.
The room was empty, he had evidently
gone out, and without tasting a morsel of
breakfast, for the food was in the cupboard
precisely as she had placed it last night.

It was not his custom to go out before
the hour at which the reading-room
opened, and she wondered at his absence,
but busied herself in preparing breakfast,
and in lighting the fire against his return.

It was a bitterly cold morning, raw
and damp and chilly, with a keen wind
blowing which came through the chinks
in the crazy roof and the badly fitting
skylight. She waited some time for him,
until nearly ten, and then she ate her
breakfast by herself, and went on with
her flower-making.

All the morning she worked, and there
was still no sign of him. She ate her

vol. ii. 29

lunch of bread and butter, and hung one
of the fowls that David had given her by a
string in front of the fire to cook against
her father's return from the Museum at
five o'clock, for the landlady did not
undertake to do any cooking for them.
Once or twice she thought of going thereto
look for him, but she could ill spare
the daylight from her work, for she was
already behind with the quantity she had
to take back that night. So she worked
on all day, and trusted to his coming in
as usual, when with other waifs and
strays he was turned out of the reading-room.


To her surprise she received a visitor
in the afternoon ; not Miss Hatchard, who
was the only person w T ho had ever been
to see her before, but a young and pretty
lady, who knocked timidly at the door.

Come in," said Fiametta, raising her
head from her work in surprise.

Oh, thank you," said a sweet childish

voice. "May I really come in? You
are Miss Twofold, are you not ? "

I am Fiametta Thorold."

"Yes, quite so. I am"  and here the
visitor blushed  "I am Mrs. Fowler,
Mrs. Frederick Fowler. My husband has
lived downstairs for a long time."

I have not the pleasure of his
acquaintance," said Fiametta, coldly.

Oh, but I am sure you w r ill like him ;
and he so much wants to know you. Mr.
Everest has told us so much about you,
and you can't think how interested weare,
and in the same house, too ! "

The ground floor," said Fiametta, "is
a long way from the attics. The inhabitants
of the rooms are, if anything
farther apart."

"Oh no, don't say so," cried pretty
little Mrs. Fowler, rather embarrassed to
find her efforts at friendship taken so
coldly. "I am sure you won't think so
when you know us."

I do not think so now," she answered.
I believe all men are equal, but you do
not think so."

Oh, I don't know anything about
it," said Nellie, shaking her head. " It
sounds awfully like political economy, or
some of those dreadful things, and
Frederick has promised me I shall never
be bothered with them any more. You
are not  oh dear, you are not learned, are
you?"

"No."

I am glad of that," said Nellie, with
a sigh of relief. " And what pretty
things you can make ! and oh, you can
cook too ! Tell me, why do you keep the
fowl turning round on a string? Why
not let it stand still and do one side first,
and then the other ? "

Because it would get burnt."

"Dear me, would it really? Now, I
should never have thought of that, and
I do so want to learn to cook. And

was it not kind of Mr. Everest? He
actually gave me the loveliest little
kettle you ever saw, with a spirit
lamp, and an extinguisher, and everything
complete. I wish you would comedown
and see it."

"I cannot leave my work," said
Fiametta, more graciously than before.
She was amused, this solemn, dark-eyed
girl, with the soft, kitten-like ways of the
new bride. She was something so bright
and fresh and babyish. Fiametta could
never remember feeling so young as this
little wife.

Then you must come when you have
finished," said Nellie, with her little
authoritative way, " and have some tea
with me out of it. It's the dearest little
kettle ; and wasn't it kind of Mr. Everest
to think of it ? "

Mr. Everest has a strong belief in
kindness," said Fiametta, in rather an
angry voice. Somehow it jarred upon

her that David had been attentive to this
little chattering creature.

Oh yes," echoed the bride, enthusiastically,
clasping her hands. " And
do you know, he actually sent me yesterday
some roses, such lovely ones, and a
basket of fruit. I think he is just delightful,
don't you?"

No," said Fiametta, so suddenly and
fiercely that Nellie started with alarm.
I think he is lazy, shuffling, and scoffing.
He has all the qualities of a gentleman ! "
she said, with a bitter emphasis.

"Good gracious!" said Nellie, considerably
puzzled by the words and the
tone. " Of course, that is what makes
him so nice ; he is a gentleman. Don't
you like gentlemen ? "

No. I would sweep every gentleman
off the face of the earth."

Then I think you are very unkind,"
said Nellie, drawing her little figure up.
"Sweep my Frederick off, indeed! I

don't know how you can say such wicked,
cruel things ; " and Nellie began to cry.

Fiametta looked at her in some amazement.


Don't cry," she said at length softly,
and there was something very irresistible
in her low tones ; " don't cry."

You didn't mean it, did you? " asked
Nellie, looking out from her handkerchief.

"Yes, I did mean it," said the other
sadly; and then there was a pause. "I
am a Socialist," she said at length, in
explanation.

Oh, if that's the case," said Nellie,
briskly putting away her handkerchief,
I don't mind a bit. I don't know what
a Socialist is, but I suppose it's something
with ' views.' Aunt and her friends had
all sorts of ' views.' I think they are
tiresome, but they don't mean anything.
Please don't tell me what your views are,
for I would rather not know. I am very
stupid about all those things. Let us

talk about something else instead. Do
you live here all alone ? "

No ; my father lives here too."

How nice ! " said Nellie, reflectively.
I never had a father  at least, I never
knew him, you know. Don't you find it
very lonely when he is out ? "

"No."

"Ah, I see; you think. I suppose
1 views ' are useful if you like thinking
about them. I am dreadfully lonely when
Frederick goes aw T ay to his work. You
will come and see me then, won't you? "

I have my work to do."

"Oh, of course; I forgot. Well, you
will let me come and see you, won't you ?
I mean that in two ways, to talk to you
and look at you, for I think you are
lovely. And," she added sagely, putting
her head on one side and pursing up her
lips, as if she was wonderfully sagacious
in having found it out, " I believe Mr.
Everest thinks so too."

One of Fiametta's sudden hot blushes
rose over her neck and face. Nellie saw
it, of course, and laughed in her pretty
baby fashion, and putting her arms about
her new friend's neck as she sat busy at
her work, printed a soft little kiss upon
her brow, and departed, saying 

I shall come again soon, but Frederick
is waiting for me now. Good-bye.' 3

Fiametta did not respond either to Nellie's
embrace or kiss; and perhaps it was as
well that that little person did not look
back on her way to the door, for she would
have been considerably astonished to seethe
darkening scowl on her new friend's
face that followed her. As soon as she
was gone, Fiametta rose from her seat
and firmly bolted and locked the door
upon her visitor; then, standing in the
middle of the room with clenched hands
and set teeth, seemed to be lost in
thought. That it was slightly bewildered
thought was testified by the vacant air
with which she gazed round the room at

its conclusion, and then, seeming to recollect
herself, went into her own little
room, and kneeling down before a box
there, began to toss its contents on to
the floor in a rapid and eager manner.

They were chiefly odds and ends of old
clothes that she had grown out of, and
some newspapers and pamphlets. But at
last, in the bottom of the box, she came
upon the object of her search. It was a
tiny dagger, almost a toy, with a jewelled
hilt, and a sharp glittering blade that was
sheathed in a red velvet scabbard.

She drew it out and looked at it,
examined the edge, but never once
touched its sharp sides. There was a
stain upon the point of it, a dull
yellowish mark, but she did not try to
rub it off, only gazed eagerly at it,
holding it in her hand for several minutes
as if it contained a horrid fascination for
her. A gleam of sunshine, a feeble
wandering ray, fell upon the skylight at

this moment, and its intercepted light
fell full upon the kneeling girl. She still
wore her often-washed old lilac cotton
gown, possibly the least romantic gown
that a girl can wear; it is too clearly
connected with a maid of all work to
allow of much poetry being thrown over
it. Fiamo ' ': .3 tight and faded and
limp, but as her glorious hair came falling
down about her shoulders, from the
energetic movement of her head as she
threw it back to catch the sunlight on
the blade, its washed colour made a
delicate lilac ground for the crisp burnt
gold of her hair to rest on. Her eyes
blazed and shone with their fiery wild
light; her lips parted in the energy of
her thoughts; the creamy hue of her
skin seemed almost to glisten with the
force of her emotion, as the white ground
of a panther's shines with the quivering of
the animal's body. Like some beautiful
wild animal she knelt there, holding the

dagger poised in her hand as if for a
deadly blow. She would have made a
fitting study for an artist illustrating
some old Italian story of revenge.

There came a knock at the outer door.
The girl started, and slid the bright blade
into its velvet sheath, and thrust beth
hastily in her bosom. No one, not even
her father, knew of this relic of her
mother's family that she had. She
paused a moment on her knees, waiting
for the knock to be repeated,

Are you in, Fiametta ? " asked
David's voice.

She pressed the dagger upon her breast
with her hand.

Yes," she said, rising and going to
the door and flinging it open. "What
do you want ? "

I want you to come down," he said ;
and his face was very pale, and his voice
much agitated. "Will you come into
Miss Hatchard's room  she is out, but

I expect she will be in presently  or
will yon come down into the Fowlers'
room ? "

I will stay here," she replied.
What have yon to say tome?"

"I hardly know how to tell yon," he
said, taking her hand in his; bnt she
drew it away again. " My poor child,
come down to Mrs. Fowler's."

No ; she has been here. I do not
like her. What have yon to tell me ? "

My dear, it is about your father.
He is well ; do not fear for his health."

I fear nothing," she said, as he
paused, not knowing how to best break
the news to her. " Go on."

My dear, a misfortune has come to
him. Did he tell yon about a lease that
he had found?"

"Yes."

You know how anxious he has always
been about this question of his pedigree 
how he has thought about it, and worked

about it, until perhaps it has affected his
mind a little ? Do you not think that is
possible, dear? "

She shook her head, but did not
speak.

Dear, you must be prepared for very
bad news. It seems that yesterday he
had a hint from the authorities of the

British Museum that Perhaps he

told you?"

Yes ; that his clothes were not decent
enough to go there. Go on."

"Well, to-day they told him of it
again, and said he must come there no
more. I suppose, dear, that that may
have upset him, and he was not quite
clear as to what he was doing ; but it
appears that one of the assistants saw
him cut the lease that he had found out
of a book in which it was bound up with
several others, and put it in his pocket.
At the door he was arrested, and taken
before a magistrate. My poor dear, he

did not know what he was doing, I am
sure of that.' '

"No," she said; "he knew. We
have none of us ever been mad. He
knew quite well. Tell me the rest."

Fortunately, he sent for me," continued
David, "for I was able to say
something for him, about his life and
studious habits, and  and so on. But I
could not get him off, my dear. It
appears there have been several cases of
the sort lately, and the magistrate was,
unfortunately, determined to make an
example. Oh, my poor dear, he is committed
for trial."

She looked up at him, quite white and
staring. He put his arm about her, but
she put it away again.

He will be in prison for theft," she
repeated slowly ; " that is a disgrace."

"If he had known what he was about,
it might be," said David, gently; "but,
dear, I am sure he did not."

Yes, he did," she said wearily. " He
told me last night that they should not
baulk him of his treasure."

It was useless to argue with her. Her
very suspicion of last night only tended
to make her cling the firmer to her
father's sanity. Perhaps the knowledge
of her own untrained mind taught her
how to distinguish between the enthusiasm
of an intense desire and absolute
insanity. She was right, too ; her father
was not insane, only all his life was
wrapped around the fulfilment of his
dreams.

I will try and get leave for you to
go and see him," said David. " In the
mean time, we must make some arrangement
for you. You cannot live here all
alone. I must speak to Miss Hatchard
about it."

No ; I must stay here. I will not go
away."

Come down now, and go for a little

vol. ii. 30

walk with me. Oh, my poor child ! you
must not stay here all the evening by
yourself."

Yes, I wish to. Please, go away
now."

Promise me to eat your dinner."
She shook her head.
I have no appetite ; it would choke
me."

My dear, I will not leave you like
this. Oh, here is Miss Hatchard ! Miss
Hatchard, come up here, please."

Well, I never ! " ejaculated that lady,
as she came to the top of the garret
stairs, and saw David and Fiametta there
alone ; " well, I never ! And what do
you do 'ere, may I ask ? "

Mr. Thorold has met with a great
misfortune," he whispered to her, as
Fiametta turned away and went into
her own little room. "He is committed
for trial for taking a lease from the
Museum. Of course he did not know

what he was about, but she won't believe
that. Will you stay with her, and try
and get her to eat something, and ' '

Oh yes, Mr. Everest ; I can stay with
her, and look after her. You needn't tell
me ; and if you'll take my advice, you
will take yourself off. This ain't the
place for a young man like you to be in."

"You will let me know how she is
to-night? " he asked, in so sorrowful and
earnest a tone that the little artist's heart
was melted for the moment.

Oh yes ; I'll let you know," she said.
Poor dear ! she will be safe with me."

Thank you ; I know she will. Goodbye,"
said David, gratefully ; then, turning
back, he added, " I am going to try
and get permission for her to see him.
You will be very careful with her, poor
thing ? "

Oh yes. Get along, do ! " snapped
Miss Hatchard, her momentary kindness
vanishing at what she considered David's

assumption of proprietorship in Fiametta.
Lor, anybody would think he was her
husband, or brother, or uncle, to hear
the way he go on," she added to herself.
And what business 'as 'e to come up
'ere at all? Bad news could keep, I
should think."

She found Fiametta standing in her
room. She had not fallen upon the bed,
or given way to weeping, or abandoned
herself to any external signs of grief ; she
was only standing with her hands clasped
before her, and her eyes cast down, apparently
very deep in thought. She did
not start when Miss Hatchard touched
her shoulder, but only looked at her ina
dazed, dull way.

 l Lor ! don't take it so to heart, my
dear," ejaculated that worthy woman.
"It ain't no thin', and it 'full do him a
sight of good to be kept away from his
books. Bless yer, my dear, he '11 come
out all the better for it."

We are disgraced," said trie girl,
slowly.

"Lor, now, my dear, don't take it
that way. Why, there's plenty of gentlemen
been in prison before now. Look
at all your ma's family, as you've told me
on ; they were in prison often enough."

Yes, for their country's sake, not as
common felons for stealing. Going to
prison for trying to free one's country is
the next most glorious thing to freeing it."

"Lor!" said Miss Hatchard, as the
girl clasped her hands and looked wildly
about her ; " now, don't take on so.
Come down and have a cup of tea ; it
'full do you good."

"No. Oh, Miss Hatchard, to be in
prison for stealing ! He will never be
able to live through it."

Oh no ; it ain't so bad as all that, my
dear. Moreover," and Miss Hatchard
paused and looked dubiously at her friend,
as if not quite certain how her words

would be taken, " perhaps your pa has
got the same notions about property as
you have. ' All property is theft,' ain't I
heard you say that afore now ? Lor ! "
as Fiametta faced round upon her with
clenched hands and glistening teeth, " I
didn't mean nothing', my dear ! "

You mean to say that I would steal ?
that I am a thief? that I would take
some paltry property from some other
person ? "

Well, my dear, how could I tell ? "
No ; he did not think that," the girl
said, or rather shouted, in so wild a
manner that Miss Hat chard instinctively
fell back a pace or two. " He knew
what he was about. He is a thief, a felon,
and I am his daughter. Go, go, I say ! I
am not fit company for you ! Go away,
go away, I say ! " and she literally turned
the astonished artist out of the room,
seizing her by her shoulder, and then
fastened the door upon her.

Miss Hatchard knocked, and shook,
and called, but it was all of no avail.
Fiametta sat brooding upon her bed,
oblivious of her friend's cries or threats.

With the knowledge of her father's
weakness and its punishment, the natural
force of her affections, so long banked up
and turned back, had rushed forth and
overthrown all the artificial enclosures
that had dammed it up. If she could
have died for him, she would have gladly,
cheerfully done so. Her passionate love,
that had been turned aside and expended
upon humanity at large, now for the first
time seized upon a special object on
which to pour out its fulness. Her
woman's nature, so long suppressed,
asserted itself at last. She loved her
father in his distress 'as she had never
suffered herself to love him before. She
trembled in every limb from the force of
the passion that swept over her; trembled,
too, from a wild, fierce dread of something

deeper, stronger even than her love of
him. But this fear she resolutely put
away from her, and bent all the powers of
her mind and will to seek some means of
extricating her father.

The poisoned toy shielded upon her
bosom suggested a fatally easy way to her.
True, it could only be brought about by
a crime. In her ardent love and tenderness,
the fiercer because so long suppressed,
she would have taken almost any
sin upon herself only to free him. In her
dwelt that real love of others such as 
with all reverence be it said  made One
take upon Himself even the indignity of
death for others' sakes. She would
become a thing accursed that her father
might be blameless, his honour unsullied.
Death, so she firmly believed, would be
better to him than dishonour; a grave
preferable to a felon's cell.

Remember that in Fiametta's case her
only instructors had been her passions ;

her only sense of right and wrong the
misery of the oppression of one man upon
another. She had no idea of Christianity,
save that its ministers were comfortably
fed and clothed and housed, while the
naked and starving were thrust away to
die in the streets. She had never been
taught anything that her own great heart
had not taught her in the dens of London
human refuse ; and her heart's teaching
w r as, that for the oppressed she would bear
the yoke, for the suffering she would be
guilty, for others' peace she would be a
criminal  perhaps, after all, not such an
inglorious lesson for a girl's heart to teach
her out of the slums of a great city.

Let not any one think that any excuse
is being framed for the terrible thought
that occurred to her. She was blinded,
bewildered ; her mind, under the suddenness
of the release and the passion of her
love, broke down suddenly. She had no
clear consciousness of what she was about,

save that she must at all hazards release
her father. All she was conscious of was
the burning desire, at any cost to herself,
to save horn. All sense of proportion was
swept away from her. Death was not
awful, sin not terrible, only he must be
saved.

Being unable to rouse her, Miss Hat-chart
went downstairs to acquaint David
with the latest vagary of their charge.

She found him in his room. He looked
worried and anxious ; very different from
the fresh-checked David who had come
up from the country nine months ago.
They stayed a little while, talking about
Fiametta, and what was best to be done
for her ; and while they talked about her,
Fiametta herself slipped past the half-open
door and out into the street.

Ten minutes afterwards they went upstairs
together, and found the attic doors
all open, the week's rent to within one-and-sixpence
upon the table, and a few

hasty lines to Mrs. Doddss, the landlady,
explaining that the beds and chairs and
table would make up the required sum,
arid the week's rent that was required in
lieu of a week's notice. That was all ; no
word to any one else, no farewell, no sign
of where she was going or what she was
about to do.

"Good Lord!" said Miss Hatchard,
sinking into a chair with horror ; " the
girl means suicide ! "

David snatched up the paper and put it
in his pocket, tossing the coins into Miss
Hatchard's lap.

"Don't tell Mrs. Doddss; don't tell
anybody," he said hoarsely. " She can't
have gone far ; I will find her ! ' '

Oh dear ! oh dear ! " cried Miss Hat-chart,
wringing her hands and running
after him ; " and I am sure I may as well
go out too, for sit here and think of her,
and perhaps in the river, is more than I
can do ! "

But David did not wait for her ; in fact,
he did not heed her. His one thought
was to trace out the girl on her way to, ashe
feared, self-destruction. The river
was the first thing he thought of, that
natural road to eternity. He knew she
would have no scruple in taking the life
she held so cheaply ; no fear of future
punishment troubled her, for she believed
in no future after death. There was only
one thought that held a grain of comfort
in it for him, as he ran and pushed his
way down to the sullen, black stream, and
that was that she was too brave to succumb
to the first blow of adversity. He could
not imagine anything subduing her spirit.
She had no fear of death ; was it likely
she would stoop to seek it ?

As he reached the embankment, and
looked eagerly down its cold and windy
pavements, his heart cheered a little.
She was not there. He ran down it to
Blackfriars Bridge ; and then, not knowing

what better to do, crossed trie bridge, and
came back by Waterloo, and up the embankment
again to Westminster. It was
dark night by this time, the myriads of
lamps glittered in the cold air, and cast
their long lines of reflection upon the
water from the bridges. Like a girdle
of fallen stars they surrounded the cold,
black, rushing river, and David felt
thankful in his heart that there was no
fog to burr them, no dimness under
cover of which the poor girl might creep
down to her destruction.

It was so bright and glittering by the
river that he left it at last, feeling that it
was useless to remain there ; and then he
bent his steps towards those dreadful
haunts of poverty and vice that Fiametta
had been in the habit of visiting, about
Drury Lane and New Compton Street.

Somehow, the longer he walked the
more hopeless he felt of finding her.
There are so many ways of hiding in

London, lie might spend ten years in
walking about the streets, and never seethe
face he sought. Yet there seemed a
horrible certainty that one day or other
he must find her. He prayed aloud (much
to the astonishment of some matrons
outside a gin palace, who took him for a
street preacher) that the river might hold
her that very night if he could not find
her at once.

He had walked for some hours, and had
come round to Wellington Street. He
had no clue to guide him where to go ; he
could simply wander about the streets
and look for her. It was the hour for
changing the force, one long line of blue
coated, big fellows came up the street,
and another detachment came out of the
Bow Street police-station, and went away.

As they did so, and deposited one of
their number at the corner of Wellington
Street and the Strand, a girl came up and
spoke to him, a girl in a lilac frock, with

an old black jacket, and a great roll of red-gold
hair under a shabby hat. David
never ran so fast in his life as he rushed
down the street again. It was by the
merest chance that he had turned his
head that once, but there was no mistaking
the gleam of that hair, or the
carriage of the small, proud head.

He had her in his arms, regardless of
the thoroughfare that they were in, or of
her auger, or anything else. For the
first time since he was a little boy the
tears ran down David's face.

Let me go ! " she said.

He only drew her arm in his, and held
her hand so tightly that the pain brought
the colour into her face. The policeman
looked steadily at them.

Don't you see you are hurting the
young woman?" he said. But David
took not the slightest notice of him.

Come, come," he said, " my dear,
come back with me at once."

No, I will not. You have no right to
make me do anything. I will not come.
I want to go to my father."

You cannot go at this time of night.
Trust me, I will take you to him as soon
as possible."

You can't get to see prisoners on
remand at this time," said the policeman,
to w 7 hom Fiametta had been talking.
You had better let your friend take you
home, miss."

I have no home ; I will not go back,"
she said passionately.

David looked up at a hansom cabman,
who had been regarding them with looks
of interest for some moments. The man
understood, and drew his cab up close to
them, and before Fiametta well knew
what she was about, the policeman and
David had got her into the cab, and
certain coins of the realm reposed confidingly
in the policeman's hand.

"I suppose it's all right," said that

worthy to himself, as he watched the cal
rattle off. i; He looked a good sort, and
the girl is a bit touched. Anyhow, the
streets is no place for her."

A sudden quietness fell upon Fiametta
after she was in the cab. She had
struggled at first to get out.

He may send for you," he said, " and
if you are not at home you will not get
his message."

"Can he?" she said, stopping suddenly
in her efforts to free herself. " Can I get
to him soon? " and a wild hope glistened
fiercely in her eyes. " The policemen
said I could not get to him. I have
asked several."

What did you tell them ? "
That he was in prison for theft."
My poor dear, you do not understand.
It is my fault for explaining things so
badly. He is only under remand in the
House of Detention. He is not actually
in prison at all."

VOL. II. 31

But he will be sent there ? "

I fear so, for a short time. The
magistrate refused bail, and I fear the
option of a fine will not be given him.
Indeed, I am sure it will not ; but we
must get a barrister to defend him. I
want to talk to you about that tomorrow."

There will be no need," she said, ina
strange dreamy voice. Her anger and
despair had vanished; there was almost
a smile on her face as she bent a little
forward, while her clenched hand stole
again to her bosom. "No need," she
repeated dreamily.

What do you mean, dear ? There is
every need to defend him."

She raised her fathomless eyes and
looked at him. There was a strange
exultation lurking in them that he had
never seen before. He could not think
what she meant. He feared that he had
raised a false hope in her of her father's
release.

Do not expect too much, dear," lie
said tenderly. " The Museum authorities
are determined to push the matter, but
possibly the sentence will be very light."

She laughed, actually laughed ; but it
was a laugh that filled David with horror
and dismay.

"We will go to him tomorrow," she
said. " There will be no need to defend
him. A Thorold can defend himself from
shame and a felon's disgrace ; " and again
she touched her breast. Then giving him
her hand as he alighted, she sprang out
of the cab and ran away upstairs to her
own room.

They could not get her to go to bed that
night. Her father might send for her, the
poor girl said, and nothing would induce
her to undress. Miss Hat chard had come
in before them, and was sitting weeping
and wringing her hands when the cab
drove up to the door. She had taken
possession of Fiametta immediately, and
would have kept her in her own room,
but the girl insisted on going upstairs;
and so Miss Hatchard went with her, and
lit the fire, and tried to induce her to eat
something, but she refused all food, and
sat crouched on the floor by the fire the
whole night through.

In point of fact, she frightened that

good woman very thoroughly. There was
such a fierce and desperate expression in
her eyes, blended with such a hopeless
despair, that she was many times in the
course of the night strongly tempted to
call David to come and keep her company
in her watch. But her mysterious dislike
to have him about the girl at all kept
down her desire, and so she sat there,
and kept the fire up, and tried to talk
now and then, but without getting any
response from her charge.

David brought Mrs. Fowler up after
breakfast, while Miss Hatchard, quite
worn out, went to lie down and refresh
herself with a good cry and a sleep.
They sat one on each side of the girl and
tried to talk to her, but she paid very
little attention to them, seeming intent
upon some purpose in her mind over
which she brooded, and every now and
then she pressed her hand upon her bosom.
David noticed this action, and wondered

what it meant. Moreover, she seemed to
be listening for something, for at every
knock or ring at the door below she
would raise her head and listen intently ;
then, as no steps came up the attic
stairs, she drooped again into brooding
despondency.

It was Sunday, so the street was unusually
quiet  a damp, heavy Sunday,
too, when a yellow fog hung about the
streets, and the pavements and houses
seemed to exude a sticky and filthy
moisture at every pore. The smoke came
down into the heavily laden air, and
made it still more difficult to breathe,
and sky and light and hope seemed all
alike blotted out.

In the afternoon, when they were still
sitting there with her, and she had shown
some signs of getting uneasy and impatient,
a loud knock was heard at the
front door.

Fiametta started.

"That must be lor me," she said,
getting up.

"We shall soon know," said David,
wishing to humour her, " for I will go
down and see who it is."

"Why do you think so, dear?" asked
Mrs. Fowler, who found it very hard to
think of "Frederick" alone; but David
had begged her to stay there, as since
Mr. Thorold's imprisonment both Mrs.
Doddss and Sarah Ann had manifested an
intense curiosity towards the lonely girl,
and he dreaded their scandal-brewing
tongues for her sake.

"I know it is," she said, listening for
every sound that came from below. "I
have felt that my father would send forme.
It is all that he can do now. Death
is better than dishonour."

Oh, my dear, you don't think he is
dying ? " cried Mrs. Fowler in alarm. It
was something dreadful to her to hear
death spoken of so calmly.

Hush ! some one is coming," replied
Fiametta.

My dear," said David, going up to
her and taking her hand, " a message has
come for you. Your father is not very
well, and he wishes to see you." David
could not find it in his heart to tell her
that he was dying.

a I am ready," she said, buttoning on
her jacket; and they went downstairs
together, and into the cab that the policeman
had fetched for them at David's
request.

All the way there, he noticed that she
kept her right hand clenched upon her
breast. It was such a very unusual
action for her that it made him uneasy.
There was a fixed, set look about her
face, and a glitter in her eyes, the expression
of a hunted-down wild animal that
is brought to bay, but will turn and rend
whomsoever touches it.

She only spoke once during the short

drive. The policeman had gone outside
with the driver, so David and she were
alone.

You think it noble and right in people
to die for their country ? " she asked, ina
low, strained voice. " My mother's
father and brothers died nobly ? "

Surely," he answered her, wondering
why she asked him such a question, and
wishing to comfort her if possible ;
surely a patriot's death is a noble
one."

It was better they should die than
live dishonoured ? " she asked again.

But they were killed in battle, my
dear, were they not ? "

u Yes, they were ; but many of my
mother's ancestors died on the block.
They were always on the side of freedom ;
they preferred death to dishonour."

What do you mean, dear ? " he asked
tenderly, for he could not understand the
drift of her thoughts.

She only looked wildly about her, and
answered vaguely 

"Death is better than dishonour''
and then she sank her head upon her
breast, and appeared lost in thought.

This little conversation naturally did
not tend to allay David's anxiety about
her, and he resolved not to lose sight of
her for a moment. When they got to
the House of Detention they were told
that Mr. Thorold was in the infirmary,
and thither they were conducted, after
an ineffectual attempt on Fiametta's part
to leave David below.

I do not want you," she said to him ;
neither does my father wish to see
you. Do you wish to remind him of your
charities to him? "

"No," he said; "but I wish him to
feel that you have not come here alone
and unprotected."

"I can take care of myself," she retorted
haughtily.

Nevertheless, I wish to go with you,"
he said quietly ; and he laid his hand
upon her clenched fist as if to draw it
away from her bosom. It was but the
briefest touch, flirt he knew at once that
she was keeping something concealed
there, under her dress. Had he not felt
anything, he w r ould have known it by the
sudden deadly pallor that overspread her
face.

He looked steadily at her, and her eyes
drooped, and she visibly quailed before
him. Without another word, she turned
and went up the staircase after the person
who had come to guide them, David
following her.

At the end of a long white-washed room,
in which were several beds, some occupied,
some empty, there was a screen drawn
round one bed. Fiametta did not know
its significance, but David did. She only
felt that it was some sort of comfort that
her meeting with her father could take

place away from curious eyes. She
stopped, and waved David and the attendant
back with her hand.

You need come no further," she said.

The attendant hesitated, but David
came forward.

Let me speak to him, too," he pleaded.

"Is there nothing sacred from you?"
she asked him, bitterly. " May I not
even meet my father on his death-bed
alone?"

David could not torment her by insisting
on being present any longer, for the
sake of a mere undefinable dread that he
had of her seeing her father alone. He
drew back, and she went on round the
screen.

The old man was lying back with his
eyes closed as she came up to him. She
was not surprised to see him looking
haggard, white, and wan; he had looked
so for years, and her eyes were not
experienced enough to note the change

in his wasted features, and the clammy
pallor upon his brow. She did not look
upon this illness as anything serious.
When she had used the word death-bed,
it was with a very different significance.
She never thought of his dying from the
effects of his illness. He looked to her
much as he had looked for many years,
and she bent over him and kissed him.

He opened his eyes and looked at her.

Ha ! my Fiametta, my little firebrand,
so they have let you come to me. I shall
soon be all right again. Ah, if only you
were your mother, child ! She would help
me out of this."

Father, dear father, I can do as she
would have done."

"You can barely remember her," he
went on, in a hoarse whisper, " my beautiful
Fiametta. Child, my heart broke
with hers when she drooped and died for
her kinsfolk and her country, but I have
done my duty by you. The deed is safe r

safe. I was a fool to take it, to think
that I could keep it safer than the British
Museum could. I shall not see it, but
you will have your rights. I can tell my
Fiametta that."

Father, dear father, I know what you
mean. Death before dishonour. I have
brought you her message, her last message.
She gave it to me on her death-bed.
Father, on your heart the scar shall be ;
a touch will do it, for it is poisoned.
Matter Vercelli sent it to my great uncle
in his dungeon. Father, quick, quick,
before any one comes ! "

"Fiametta," said David, suddenly
coming round the screen. He had not
heard what she said, only caught the
quick, eager tone of her whisper, and
could bear the suspense no longer, for he
knew in himself that all was not well
behind that screen. Some subtle sense
he knew not of what made him come
forward at that instant.

She did not shriek or scream, but
turned to a perfectly unnatural hue; a
greenish shade seemed to creep over her
face. Her eyes dilated and shone with
a rage and terror perfectly indescribable.
Her lips turned dark, and drew back from
her glittering set teeth. As he had
entered she had thrust the murderous
steel under the clothes ; she grasped its
velvet handle still, and in that kneeling
attitude she seemed frozen, for she did
not move another muscle, only knelt
there perfectly rigid.

"How do you do, Mr. Thorold?" said
David, collecting with a great effort all
the calmness he was capable of, but
speaking in a trembling voice, nevertheless.
He had turned almost as pale as
the dying man on the bed, as his eye had
caught the gleam of the sharp steel.

"Eh, Everest?" said the old man,
feebly. He seemed dazed and confused.
"This is my daughter, Everest. She is

like her mother, the last of the VercellL
They were great people in Italy."

I hope you are feeling a little better,"
said David, hoarsely, not able to look
again at the kneeling girl. There was
a grip of pain about his heart such as he
had never felt before.

She is like her mother," he replied
feebly  "very like her mother. I have
done my duty by her. The deed, it is all
right?"

Yes, quite right," said David, seating
himself on a chair beside the bed, while
Fiametta buried her face in the bedclothes.


"Ah, yes; quite right," he repeated
weakly. " I have got the better of them
all at last, but it will be over for me soon
now."

"We can't get him to take any food,"
said the attendant, who now came up to
the bedside. " Not a bit of anything has
he touched since he has been here."

"Food? No, I will not eat felons'
food ! " he cried in a shrill whisper, with
a touch of his old anger; " it would
poison me. A Thorold eat the bread of
prisons ! "

"But you are not in prison," said
David, and tried to explain that he was
only under remand; but he would not
hear it.

It is all the same," he said, "taken
up as if for a paltry theft. It was my
deed ; it belonged to my ancestor, Harvey
Thorold. I am even with them all now;"
and he lay back exhausted.

"Do try and take a little beef-tea,"
said the attendant, offering him a cup,
for the sake of the young lady."

"No, no," he said hoarsely.

"Can't we make him take it?"
whispered David.

It would be no good now, sir," he
answered. " He was in a dying state
when he was brought here. He has been

VOL. IT. 32

starving for a long time, the doctor says,
and his constitution is quite broke up.
This wouldn't do him no good if he did
take it, but it's my duty to try my best
to make him."

He seemed so exhausted by his interview
that he lay back in a kind of doze,
and David judged it best to take Fiametta
away.

We had better go," he said, bending
forward.

She lifted her head defiantly.

"You can go," she said. "I shall
stay with my father."

David looked at the attendant.

It's my orders not to allow visitors to
stay beyond their time, miss," he said
civilly, in answer to David's look. " We
might send for you again later on."

I will not go."

I am afraid you must, miss."

You must, indeed," said David, who
was in an agony of apprehension to get

her away, and obtain possession of the
murderous weapon he had seen in her
hands, and to do it all, if possible, without
arousing the man's suspicions. " Come
with me for a little while, at least. You
can come again tomorrow. You must
come, indeed you must ; " and he laid his
hand upon her arm.

Very well," she answered. " Let me
say good-bye to my father. You can go
away," she added angrily.

I will not leave you," he said, in
so firm a voice that she quailed under
his eyes again; and she bent over the
bed and kissed the old man upon his
lips.

I have brought her message," she
whispered. " You will find it under the
quilt. Oh, father, father, good-bye, goodbye
! "

He moved a little uneasily, and muttered
something.

"Fiametta," he said. " Ah, yes; I will

tell her I found it and left it with you.
Good-bye, my dear."

She kissed him again, and turned to
go ; but he had already fallen into a
doze, so David would not wake him, and
they went down the long room together.
As they passed out from behind the screen
a change seemed to fall upon the girl.
Her eyes brightened, her proud head was
raised, her step was more majestic; a
conqueror could not have looked more
conscious of a victory won than she did
going down the infirmary ward and
stairs.

One moment,' ' said David, pausing
at the door. "I have forgotten something
; " and before the attendant or
Fiametta knew what he was about, he
had dashed along the room and past the
screen. They both followed him as
quickly as they could, the man full of
official indignation, Fiametta in sudden
terror. They met David coming back

again, his face very white, and his right
hand in his pocket.

"It's all right," he said nervously, and
in an excited manner. " I dropped my 
my purse," he added.

The man looked at him suspiciously.

I will ring for somebody to take you
out," he said, suiting the action to the
word. " I don't leave this place again."

"As you will," said David, carelessly;
and another attendant appearing at that
moment, he and Fiametta went down the
stairs together.

He did not look at her, nor she at him ;
a dreadful understanding was between
them that kept their eyes averted from
each other. They did not even speak
until David had handed her into a cab,
and they drove ofT together. Then she
broke the silence.

"Was it true about a purse?" she
said, looking straight before her along
the foggy, filthy street.

He made no answer. Now that lie-was
sitting beside her, he seemed to feel
the awfulness of her crime even more
fresh upon him. He turned quite faint
and sick, and had to lean back in his
corner of the hansom. He w r as physically
unable to tell her that he had the dagger
in his pocket, but he believed that she
must know that he had taken it.

She on her part could not ask the
question. Her mind had become to her
as a red-hot, seething mass. Her brain
felt as if it were on tire, and fearful and
terrible shapes were passing about in the
midst of the flames. Even now she had
no distinct recollection of what had
passed in the infirmary. She knew that
she had taken the dagger there, but what
she had said to her father had passed
from her mind; a glaring, red-hot pain
was all that she had strength to know
for the present. That remark about the
purse had not really been made to David

at all ; it was but an effort to disentangle
in her mind some of the confused mass
of phantasies that filled it. The effort
made, she subsided again into vacant,
nerveless horror and pain. She said
nothing more, but sat with her hands
clasped, bending slightly forward and
looking out at the fog and rain.

When they came to Harcourt Street,
she got out mechanically and walked upstairs
into Miss Hat chard's room. In
the familiar place, her mind became for
the time a little clearer, and she walked
into the studio as if she had been a queen.

mom

Loe, tiny dear ! " said Miss Hatchard, as
Eiametta came in ; " well, he ain't so bad
after all, is he?" For the girl's eyes
were bright, and her head held up; she
looked a different creature to the brooding,
crushed being that had left Harcourt
Street but a few hours ago.

He is better, much better," she replied,
standing in the doorway with her
hands crossed before her. "I have not
lived in vain, Miss Hatchard."

Come and have a cup of tea," said
that lady; " it's jest drawer. Why, you
are talking quite light headed. Where is
Mr. Everest ? "

Downstairs."

And he had better stay there. Come
In, dear."

No ; I cannot eat or drink. I  I
have something on my hands ; " and she
looked at them.

I'll get you a drop of hot water.
Come in."

But Fiametta's only answer was to
close the door, and go upstairs to her own
room, and neither coaxing or threats
could bring her down again. So poor
Miss Hatchard was fain to pass another
night in the attic with her.

She was even worse this night than she
was on the preceding one. Then she had
been quiet and brooding, now she was
wild and restless. For hours she paced
up and down, up and down the rotten,
waving floor, with her hands clasped, and
with a fierce, quick, eager step, till the
little artist felt half crazed herself to
watch her, and the trembling floor, and

tottering walls, and twisted roof, seemed
to her bewildered eyes to be closing them
all in in one hideous madness.

In vain she implored the girl to be
quiet, to lie down. Fiametta did not
even seem to hear her voice ; but continued
her walk up and down, up and
down, till Miss Hat chard, unable to bear
the strain any longer, subsided into
nervous sobbing.

Early in the morning there came a
knock, and a ring at the bell ; not a postman's,
or a milkman's, or a telegraph
boy's, but a loud continuous knock, and a
strong pull at the bell, as if the knocker
and ringer felt tolerably certain that he
had business at that particular house, and
no other.

Fiametta stopped in her walk and
listened.

That is the message," she said to
Miss Hatchard ; " they have come to tell
me that he is dead."

Don't think such things, my dear;
it ain't for you at all, I expect. Lor,
don't go down."

For Fiarnetta had gone to the door
and opened it. There w r as a sound of feet
upon the stairs. She went down to the
second-floor landing, and then she heard
the door of David's room open, and his
voice asking an eager question.

Yes, sir," she heard a strange man's
voice answer; "he died this morning at
four o'clock."

A shudder passed over her, and she
turned as white as a lily ; while her eyes
dilated and shone with a terrible nameless
horror.

"Lawks!" said Sarah Ann, who was
piloting the policeman upstairs, "my!
don't she feel it orful neither! " and the
girl stood staring stupidly at the terror-struck,
helpless creature before her.

"His end w 7 as very easy, miss," said
the man, as gently as his rough voice

would allow. " At four o'clock this
morning, passed like a child, the nurse
said."

Come downstairs," said David, who
had rapidly dressed himself and come
up the stairs.

There's the funeral," said the manu
Would the young lady like "

Come down, I say. Sarah Ann, go
down to your mistress ; " and David and
the policeman departed.

Miss Hatchard was with Fiametta, and
had put her arm round her, and begged
her to come into her room and lie down.
She did not seem to hear at first ; then
she looked at her with such piteous
despair in her face that the elder woman
burst out crying.

He did not even look at me," the girl
said, in tones that went to Miss Hat-chart's
heart to hear. " What have I
really done? "

Lor, come in, my darling ; your head

is almost turned. Come and lie down a
bit," sobbed the artist. " Oh, my dear,
if you would only cry, it would do you
good ! Come in ; " and quite meekly
Fiametta followed her, did as she was
bid, even tried to swallow some food, but
with that look on her face of the horror
that seemed to have fallen with a petrifying
power upon her.

She lay down, but she could not
keep her eyes shut, though she tried to
close them ; she had suddenly sunk into
the state of a little child, and obeyed
Miss Hatchard as if she had been her
mother.

It was dreadful to see her lying staring
straight up at the ceiling with that
blank and hopeless horror. Miss Hat-chart
could not bear it, and told her to
get up and sit in her armchair by the
fire, and try to warm herself, for she felt
as cold as stone to the touch. She did
so in a silent, unquestioning way that

made poor Miss Hatchard cry again, as
she remembered the girl's old stubborn,
imperious spirit. She sat quite silently
for a time, with seemingly no power of
motion or speech; then she suddenly
said 

He was my father ; he gave me
life ; " and then she stopped, as if unable
to go on with the rest of her speech.

"Yes, dear, your father. We must
expect to outlive our fathers, you know.
Why, my par died years and years ago.
Lor! but I can mind him as if it was
yesterday;" and Miss Hatchard wiped
her eyes.

There is something on my hands,"
she said again presently, holding her long-thin
fingers before her. " Do you see

it?"

"No, dear; they are quite clean; but
I will wash them, if you like."

"No," she said, with a shudder; "it
will not wash off. It is a stain of red

velvet ; " and she shivered violently, and
cast a frightened glance around the
room.

"Oh dear, dear!" thought Miss Hat-chart
in despair, " it has come at last.
The Lord forgive me for saying what I
did the other day, for I never meant it ;
and now it has come, and she is out of
her mind."

"What red velvet, dear?" she asked,
not knowing what to say to her.

The girl threw up her hands in horror
before her face.

"No, no!" she cried; "no, no, no!
You did not see it. None but we three
know it, and it is safe with us  safe with
us." She stopped and stared vacantly
before her for some time; then, looking
up into Miss Hatchard's face, she said
piteously, " But, oh, it was cruel to make
me do it ! "

"You ain't done nothing' ; you have
always been a good girl, my dear," said

the woman, soothingly. "You ain't got
nothing' to reproach yourself with, dear.
Lor, what is that ? " as a knock came
to her door.

Oh, Miss 'Richard, it's a gentleman
to see Miss Thorold; and as she ain't
upstairs, I suppose she's 'ere  or down
in the first floor," added the handmaiden
maliciously, mindful of David's peremptory
address that morning.

"You dare!" cried Miss Hatchard,
dashing forward and shaking her fist, not
at Sarah Ann's smutty countenance, butin
the face of a gentleman dressed asa
clergyman, who stood in the doorway,
Sarah Ann having discreetly retired intime.


"I Ah, beg your pardon," said

the gentleman.

Oh, Lor ! " said Miss Hatchard.
"Well, I never! But there, I am so
flustered as never was. The saucy hussy !
I beg your pardon, sir. Do come in."

The clergyman stepped inside. He was
a slight man, very neatly dressed in
faultless clerical attire of somewhat an
old-fashioned sort, for he wore a frock
coat, an ordinary high waistcoat, not of
M. B." pattern, a white tie, and he
carried a tall hat in his hand. He had
grey hah', short and waving at the ends,
and a small grey beard and whiskers.
He had a rather handsome face, with a
certain grave dignity about it, a broad
high forehead, and a pair of unusually
gentle soft blue eyes. He looked every
inch a gentleman and a Christian.

He bowed in a quiet, dignified manner
to Miss Hatchard. Fiametta he could
not see, for Miss Hatchard's big easel
hid her from him.

Pray excuse my intrusion. My only
excuse is, that the servant believed you
could give me some information about a
young relative of mine  a Miss Thorold.' ,

Oh, Lor ! " cried Miss Hatchard,

vol. ii. 33

wildly. "Well, I never!" and here
words failed her.

"I was only yesterday aware that I
had such a relation," he explained. "I
saw in the Times yesterday an account
of a most unfortunate poor cousin of
mine, of whom I had lost sight for many
years ; in fact, I believed him dead.
Doubtless, as he appears to have lived in
this house, you know the sad circumstance
to which I refer ? "

Miss Hatchard nodded, and he went
on 

"I came up to town last nigh t, and
found out where he was ; but I could not
be admitted at that hour. On calling
this morning, I hear to my intense regret
that he is dead. I got his address from
the officials of the place, and came hereat
once, learning that he had a daughter.
I do not wish to intrude upon her grief,
poor child, at such an unseasonable
time; but if you can convey to her my

earnest sympathy and my sincere desire
to be to her all that a kinsman may be
sat such a time, you will have my deep
gratitude for your kindness."

Oh, Lor! oh, Lor! But who are
you ? " cried Miss Hatchard, wringing her
hands in the wildest excitement.

My name is James Thorold. The
late Mr. Thorold was my cousin."

Why, mercy on us, you must be the
7*eir ! " exclaimed the little woman, in a
perfectly wild state of astonishment.

I was my father's heir, if that is what
you mean?" he said, wondering who
this extraordinary little person was.
u Chaylesford is my property certainly,
if that is what you refer to."

Come here ! come here ! " cried Miss
Hatchard, in her excitement forgetting
the respect due to the " cloth," and
literally pulling him by that same material
round the easel. " Look ! there she is.
Oh, my dear, your fortune has come at

last ! " and, quite overcome by her feelings ?
the little artist threw herself down, and
buried her face in the girl's lap.

Mr. Thorold paused. He was surprised,
not to say startled, by the sight of his
cousin. He had expected to find some
weeping girl. He had thought of his
own daughter all the morning, and his
tender heart had been sore with pity for
the desolate orphan. But, instead of a
crushed and gentle girl, he saw before him
a woman with a white, haughty face and
strange, wild, glittering eyes  eyes that
looked to him as if they belonged to some
furious wild beast ; and there was a lithe
fierce energy about her quivering figure
as she rose and flung her hand out
towards him that made him instinctively
compare her to a tigress about to spring.
There was passion and scorn in her very
finger-tips.

I want no parsons here," she said, ina
cold, hard voice. Her head, with its

waving dead-gold hair, was thrown a little
back, her hand and arm outstretched.
He could not but admire her beauty,
though he saw how T she scorned him.
I am poor ; I can give you neither
money nor food in return for your empty
promises of a future world you know
nothing about. Go to the rich, and
help to pamper them in their sin and
idleness, and may the curses of the poor
follow you to your grave ; " and she
clenched her fist, and set her teeth.

Mr. Thorold was fairly taken aback at
this very unexpected greeting. He had
never seen a woman like this before. He
was obliged to sit down for an instant to
recover his equanimity.

Poor thing ! her mind is turned by
her loss," he thought to himself. He
rose, went up to her, and tried to take
her hand, but she snatched it away from
him.

My dear, I am your cousin," he said

simply. He scarcely knew what to say
to her.

She turned upon hin as if he had
stung her.

"You have come to see his shame!"
she said, in a low, bitter voice, fixing her
eyes upon him ; " but you are too late.
The husband of a Vercelli knew how to
defend himself without your niggard help.
You are too late for him. Perhaps you
thought that as he, my protector, is
dead, I, a daughter of your house, might
shame you  become a pauper, perhaps,
and lie in one of your charitable institutions
called workhouses. You need not
fear for her. You need not be afraid for
her. She will never seek others' or
your charity; she knows how to help
herself. She will not rob the poor, nor
live upon the toils of others ; and she
will, at least, know how to die. You
may go."

Oh, my dear, my dear!" cried Miss

Hatchard, with difficulty finding her
voice in her sobs of delight; "oh, my
dear, for goodness gracious' sake, don't
talk like that ! " and she flung her arms
round the girl's waist.

Fiametta looked contemptuously down
at her.

Perhaps you wished to offer me
money," she said to Mr. Thorold, who
was too surprised at his very unexpected
reception to find words come very readily
to him.

I simply came, my dear, as your
cousin, to offer you my home. You are
my nearest known relation out of my own
household ; " and he came closer to her
and held out his hand.

"Oh, Lor! oh, Lor! Fiametta, take
it," screamed Miss Hatchard, wildly.
"Your own cousin. Oh, I never was so
glad of anything in all my life ! "

Fiametta walked proudly to the window
and threw it open. A confused noise of

quarrelling women, shrieking children,
and the harsh and discordant sounds of
costermongers, street itinerants, and all
the clamour of a low and noisy street were
wafted in.

'these are my brothers and sisters,"
she said, indicating with her hand the
crowd in the street gathered round the
quarrelling women. " Their home is my
home, their sorrows my sorrows. I will
not leave them to live with you on what
has been wrung from their blood and
lives. Grind down the poor for yourself,
take for your inheritance the portion of
thousands, but leave me free from the
innocent blood that stains your hands."

As she finished she looked wildly about
her, and then held her own white, right
hand shudderingly before her face, as if
dreading to find some stain upon it too.

Don't hark to her ; oh, don't take
no notice ! " cried Miss Hatchard, laying
her hand upon the visitor's sleeve, while

Fiametta gazed in a kind of rapt horror
upon her hands. She seemed to have
forgotten all about her visitor. " She is
a bit light-headed like ; she don't know
what she is saying ! " She tried to
whisper the latter part of her speech, but
the words w r ere audible all over the room.

"You lie ! " said the girl, coming up
behind her and seizing her by the
shoulders and drawing her away. "I do
know what I am saying. I tell you," she
went on, addressing her cousin, " to take
your wealth away. I will have none of
it. Of my own free will I will never so
much as touch a crust of your bread. I
hold no ties of kinship save the sacred
bond of humanity. You are no more tome
than those people out in the street.
Carry your kinship to them : they need
it; I do not."

Don't take no notice ! oh, don't take
no notice ! " screamed Miss Hatchard,
again pulling at his sleeve.

"Poor child ! " was all he said; " poor
child ! " But there was such sorrow and
pity in his voice that even Fiametta
turned her head towards him, and there
was silence for a moment. The hard
fierce look died out of her eyes, and a
sudden blankness came over them. She
seemed again to become unconscious of
all around her.

I have two daughters," he said at
last, hoping to interest her in spite of
herself, " girls like yourself, my dear."
He could hardly suppress a shudder ashe
thought of their coming into contact
with this wild, passionate creature 
They will be delighted to welcome you
as one of themselves."

Oh, bless you, take her, take her ! "
screamed Miss Hat chard, still sobbing
and tugging at his sleeve.

He touched Fiametta upon her shoulder,
for she did not pay any attention to his
words.

Come home with me' lie said, " and
be to me as one of my own girls."

She looked up in a dazed wild way into
his face.

I will be a curse for others," she said,
"but I will never be a curse to them."
Then pausing for a moment, as if to
collect her scattered thoughts, " There
is no disgrace resting upon him, for now
it can never be proved."

He did not understand her.

Come with me, my dear," he said,
and we w r ill all try and make you
happy."

It was unfortunate that he used the
last word, for it quickly roused all her
passions. She flung his hand from her
arm, as if it had stung her.

I am not a ghoul," she cried fiercely,
while that strange glitter shone in her
eyes again. " I will not purchase my
happiness by feeding on the blood of the
poor. Every grain of your wealth is

bought by the toil and misery of others.
You may prey upon them in your
cowardice, if you will, I will not. Go,
I say go ! " she cried, raising her voice,
"go, go down to the grave with the
curses of millions upon your head, but
leave me at least guiltless of this crime.
Go, go, at once, I say ! " And she
turned in a perfect fury upon him, as if
she would herself have thrust him out
of the room.

Mr. Thorold paused, uncertain what todo.
In her present state of mind it was
useless to talk to her, yet he could not
bear to leave her. Miss Hatchard came
to his assistance.

Oh, don't mind her, don't mind
nothing ! " cried the little artist, half distracted.
" There, go away now; but oh,
Lor, come back again ; don't forsake her.
Oh, do come back again ! "

Go," repeated Fiametta, pointing
angrily at the door.

I will come again," he said to Miss

Hatchard. " My dear " making a last

effort to get Fiametta to listen to him.
But she only repeated her angry motion
of dismissal, and sad and sore at heart,
he went silently out of the room. Miss
Hatchard would have followed him, but
Fiametta caught her fiercely by the
shoulders.

You shall not go," she said. " I will
not have you follow him;" and she
listened until she heard the front door
shut, and then her hands loosed their
hold.

There ! " cried the artist, indignantly,
now you have gone and done a pretty
thing for yourself. Lor, what's come to
the girl now ? ' ' For Fiametta was standing
like a statue in the middle of the
room, looking at her right hand. All
trace of her late passion had calmed
down, and there was a dull, fixed blank
look upon her face.

IN LONDON TOWN,

There is a stain there," she said
shudderingly, and with white lips  "red
velvet ; " and she submitted to be led to
the easy-chair and seated by the fire.

And where was David? Miss Hatchard
asked herself that question over and over
again, as the evening hours drew on and
no David appeared. It was not like him
to desert the girl whom he had befriended
in her great trouble, yet he did not come
near her, had not so much as spoken to
her since he had brought her back last
night in the cab. He had come to the
door of the studio to ask after her before
going out in the morning; but he had
not come in, or even asked to do so, and
there was a haggard, sleepless look upon
him, as if some great horror had kept him
awake all night. Miss Hatchard was

struck by the unusual expression of his
face, struck, too, by his keeping his hand
clenched upon his breast, much in the
same way that Fiametta had kept hers
the night before ; but she did not know
then, and never did know, the velvet-sheathed
secret that both hid upon their
hearts in the selfsame manner.

David had the dagger in the inner
pocket of his coat. He was afraid to
part with it for an instant, almost afraid
to take his hand away from it, lest it
should fall out, and be discovered, and
lead to inquiries being made. He was
almost as nervous over it as if the intended
murder had really been committed.
Perhaps it was not wonderful
that his head was a little thrown off its
balance by the discovery he had made.
Fiametta seemed suddenly to be removed
by the width of a great bottomless chasm
away from him. He could not cross to
her, nor she to him ; no words between

them could do it. Something  he did
not know what  seemed to hold him
back, as if with an iron band about his
heart, a band that he was powerless to
break, yet that tortured him with a pain
he had never known before. He did not
know that he loved her so much that he
could forgive even this act of hers, and
that the pain arose from his being unable
even to himself to acknowledge this. He
felt the horror of it thick upon him, and
never knew that his love was deeper even
than the trembling, deepening shadow
that was about him. He was afraid to
go near her, and it seemed impossible to
stay away.

In this frame of mind he left for his
office. He had been away nearly all day
on Saturday, so was obliged to present
himself there on Monday ; but the amount
of work he did made no very great show
there. Indeed, he hardly seemed to
know what he was about, so keen was the

vol. ii. 34

pain within him, and he had a fearful,
sickening dread of what the future might
bring forth.

He was sitting thinking of his last
interview with Fiametta, and recalling
the wild look of triumph in her eyes with
a shudder, when a telegram was put into
his hands. It was from his mother, and
contained but the words 

Come at once ; your uncle is very
ill."

The suddenness of the blow roused
David at once. For one terrible moment he
believed that the old man was dead. Buta
short reflection soon showed him that if
such had been the case, his mother would
have had no hesitation in saying so. Her
telegram was curt, even to cruelty, as it
was. She might as well have softened
her words a little, or said more, as the
circumstances required. Mr. Burney
might be dying, or only suffering from
some slight illness or accident ; the same

shilling's worth might have told him all
about it.

One thing only was certain  that he
must go at once. There was no power
that David was conscious of that could
keep him from his uncle's bedside if he
had the strength of body to get there. He
applied for a few days' leave instantly, asa
matter of form. He would have gone,
whether they had been granted or not.
As it was, his request was allowed at
once. There was no time to lose ; he
would only just be able to catch the
afternoon train down to Broodleigh. He
borrowed a couple of sovereigns from a
comrade in his office, for the drains upon
his purse lately had well-nigh emptied it,
and, having despatched telegrams to Miss
Hatchard and Mr. Fowler, to account for
his absence, and to beg the latter to make
such arrangements as were necessary for
Mr. Thorold's funeral, he went off in a
cab to Haddington.

The suddenness of the news about his
uncle for the moment drove the thought
of Fiametta from his mind, but not the
pain from about his heart, that tightened
more and more as the shrieking train
bore him farther and farther away from
her. As the train sped on in the dull
twilight beside the sodden meadows, and
later on he saw the sullen waste of inky
floods spread over what had once been
the flowering fields of Somersetshire, it
seemed to him as if he saw an image of
his own life. Death and desolation, with
a great horror of crime, seemed rushing
over him, as the waters covered the landscape.
His uncle, the dearest friend of
his life, was dying ; the blackness of a
great sin was upon the girl whom he
had believed to be as pure as the sky ;
his own life seemed made up of failures.
All his learning and his wisdom in ancient
lore seemed to him at that time but as a
useless, empty conceit, that he would

willingly have bartered for only the assurance
that he would find his uncle alive
when he reached him ; for he felt quite
sure that his mother's curt telegram
meant the w r worst news that she could
send him. His life seemed to him to have
been passed in dreams, and now for the
first time the reality of things terrible
around him was forced in upon him.

He had never known any sorrow until
now, and its sting was so sore and sharp
upon him that, manlike, he turned his
thoughts in whatever direction any comfort
might be found. A woman would
have hugged her griefs, but David was
anxious to escape from them. He felt
very friendless and alone. His mother
would not help him in any way; she
never had. Of his friends, Miss Hatchard
seemed unaccountably alienated from
him ; Fowler was married and happy,
and had no need of him ; of Fanny, Fanny
only, could he be sure. He would find

her as he had left her; he always did
find her as he had left her. Surely in
this world of change there is a certain
comfort in being able to have that certainty
about any one. Fanny would be
always the same to him ; nothing would
move her.

He tried to think about her as they
went plunging on into the darkness,
with the lapping of the waters for miles
beside them, but his thoughts kept
coming back, with a restless persistency,
to the wild, white face that had been in
the prison infirmary w T with him, and to the
possible changes that he might find in
the loved old face at home. But he kept
pulling himself back to Fanny, until,
before he got to Broodleigh station, he
quite expected to see her in the pony
carriage waiting for him. He looked out
of the window at the black country outside,
and thought he should like to have
her kind face beside him when he first

heard the news, whatever it might be,
about his uncle.

It was nearly nine when he got to
Broodleigh station. He looked anxiously
along the platform, but no Fanny was
there. He went through the station,
and at the back he found the pony
carriage and a man.

Well, Rogers, how is my uncle ? " he
asked, as he got in, his hands and feet
numb with the cold.

The man shook his head.

'E an't no better," he said.

What is the matter? Is he very
ill?"

Seas, ill enough ; eve 'ad a vit."

"What sort of fit?"

What they du call peralasy," said the
man. " Yell down, sudden like. Struck
nun all one side, I du think."

David took the reins out of the man's
hands, and lashed his mother's pony as
that animal had never been lashed before,

and in a very short time they were in the
narrow lane that led to the Eectory.

Somebody must have been on the lookout
for them, for the hall door was flung
open before they stopped ; and on David's
jumping down and going in, he found
Fanny in the hall.

How do you do, David ? We were
sure you would come to-night."

How is he?" asked David, holding
her hand, and looking earnestly at her.

Fanny's eyes fell under the look, and
really they need have done nothing of
the kind, for he was thinking of his
uncle to the utter exclusion of everyone
else, and all his earnestness was
about him.

He seems a little better," she said,
with her eyes still down.

David pressed her hands, pressed them
hard. He could not bear to ask the
question that was on his lips. Poor
Fanny only felt the pressure of his hands,

and never guessed at the suspense and
pain of mind that caused it.

Is there  is there," he said at last 
oh, Fanny, is there any hope ? " and he
gazed anxiously into her eyes.

In justice to Fanny, it must here be
said that she had no idea how seriously
ill old Mr. Burney was. Mrs. Everest,
with that natural dislike to let anything
occur without her intervention, had
managed " so that Fanny should not be
told how alarming w r as the blow that had
fallen on the family. It was all that
Mrs. Everest could do in the w T ay of
fashioning events in the present instance,
so she did it. Fanny, therefore, was
under the impression that sending for
David was only an amiable weakness on
the part of Mr. Burney, and she was
more than half inclined to think that if
David had not gone aw 7 ay so suddenly,
this illness might never have happened,
for the old man had felt the younger

one's departure very much. It was not
due to heartlessness, therefore, that Fanny
thought that David's looks and speeches
were more directed towards herself than
they were. Had she known that her
kind old guardian was lying in the very
shadow of death, she would have been
deeply and genuinely distressed. As it
was, pleasure at seeing David had well-nigh
eclipsed for the moment all thought
of his uncle.

Dear Fanny," David repeated, " is
there any hope ? "

What could David mean? Why did
he look at her so fixedly and anxiously ?
Why had he gone away so suddenly ?
And, above all, why did he come back
and talk of hope ? At this juncture Mrs.
Everest appeared.

So you are come, David. I hardly
knew whether to expect you or not ; but
Fanny thought you would come."

Fanny is always right," said David,

kindly ; for Fanny had blushed and looked
distressed. " Of course I came at once.
How is he now, mother ? "

Come and see him," said Mrs. Everest,
moving towards the stairs. " Fanny dear,
will you order some supper for David ?
She does not know," she added, in a
lower tone, as they reached the landing
at the top of the stairs. "I thought it
best not to tell her ; there was no necessity
for her to know."

Mother, is there really no chance?"
and David's face blanched and his voice
trembled.

Mrs. Everest saw his distress, and,
strange to say, it hardened her. She felt
instinctively that David would care less
for her decease than for that of her brother.
Women, even mothers, are jealous over
the love of their male relatives. It was a
sore trial to Mrs. Everest that her boy
loved her brother better than herself.

"I don't know about chances" she

said; " we are in the hands of a just and
dispensing Providence. How you can
talk in that heathenish way, I don't know,
David."

I mean  oh, mother, tell me  is there
no hope ? "

No hope, David! and you have been
brought up in a Christian family. We are
in the hands of the Lord, who will do as
He thinks fit with his weak and unworthy
vessels. As clay in the hands of the
potter, so are we in the Lord's hands.
Think of Saul who rebelled against the
hand of the Lord, and submit." And
with this apposite and comforting reflection
she ushered him into his uncle's
room.

Mr. Burney was lying motionless on
his bed. One side of him was perfectly
and hopelessly paralyzed. He might
linger on for a few months in a state of
half-death, half-life, or he might die
within a few days, almost a few hours.

Since the stroke had fallen on him, he
had seemed conscious of those around
him, but he had dozed a good deal, or
rather had lain in a sort of stupor. In
all his waking moments he had asked for
David. To see him seemed the one
thought or desire of the old man's life.

"You think more about David than
you do about your immortal soul," Mrs.
Everest had said to him that afternoon,
when he had dozed and woke and asked
if David was come, a dozen times or
more.

I don't know, my dear," he said
feebly. " I have tried to do my duty ;
but I want to see my lad, I want my boy
again."

Your duty ! " said Mrs. Everest,
solemnly. " Oh, Theophilus, and you a
clergyman, to talk upon your death-bed
of your duty and not of your need of
grace and the Blood of Redemption !
Oh, Theophilus, let me pray for you ! "

Do, my dear," he said feebly. " Will
you say one of the psalms for me ? "

Put not your trust in forms," said
Mrs. Everest. " Theophilus, let me say
a few words."

Thank you, Charlotte. You mean
well, I am sure, but I have been so long
used to the Church's ways, I don't think
I could follow any other words now. A
psalm, please ; any psalm you like." And
in a stony voice Mrs. Everest began at
the beginning of the Psalter, and was
going straight on with it when David
arrived. Old Mr. Burney had fallen
asleep under the poetry of the prophet,
but he woke up when his boy came into
the room.

My dear lad, my dear lad ! " he said,
and he tried to stretch out his feeble
hand towards the idol of his life.

Oh, Uncle Theoo, dear old Uncle
Theoo ! " was all David could say, and he

knelt beside the bed and buried his face
on the old man's shoulder.

My dear lad, my dear lad ! " the old
man said, while a beautiful smile came
into his dimmed eyes, and tried to play
about his poor stiffened mouth, " Nunc
dimittis serum tuum, Domine, secundum
verbum tuum, in pace ! "

Uncle Theoooo, dear Uncle Theoooo ! " was
all the younger man could say.

They stayed quite quiet, David clasping
the old man's hand, and the dim eyes
feasting on his much-loved face. They
understood each other too well to talk
at such a time, and they both knew that
the end was drawing near.

Davie," said Mr. Burney at last, in
his muffled indistinct voice, " Davie, I
should like to know what you have settled
about the Gallican Sacramental ? "

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND BECCLES. G. C. & Co.

0U:

SEP 0'

1,1610-1096

III.

gi revel.

Katharine LEE,

AUTHOR OF
A WESTERN Wildfowl," " IN THE ALSATIAN FOUNTAINS," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
Richard BENTLEY AND SON,

43xililtsf)crs in (IBrtinarg to |&cr IHajrstg tfjc ticcit.
1884.

fall rights reserved')

IN London TO WIST.

Chapter I.

That night Fiametta was very ill, so ill
that Miss Hatchard sent for a doctor.
She had waited until long after David's
usual hour for returning before she did
so, for she wanted his advice as to whom
to send for, but no David came. With a
charming absence of conformity to any
fixed principles, David's telegrams, sent
from Westminster to Bloomsbury, took
rather longer to get themselves delivered
than if he had sent them to New York.

So Miss Hatchard waited and fumed;
and the Fowlers went to the pit of a

VOL. 111. 35

theatre, by desire of frederick," who
considered that his Httle wife was unduly
fretting herself over Fiametta's troubles,
and laudably wished to raise her spirits.
Miss Hatchard being thus driven to rely
upon her own resources, sent Sarah Ann
for the nearest doctor, and that happening
to be a parish one, he came
readily enough, any sort of private patient
being welcome to him. He was a coarse,
vulgar - looking man, with long white
teeth, and dyed whiskers, and a flashy
breast pin  a doctor of the very lowest
order of doctors. He made some coarse
remark about the girl's beauty, and spoke
in an offensively familiar way to Miss
Hatchard, that raised an amiable wish in
that worthy soul's breast to throw hot
water over him ; but she suppressed it,
although the kettle was handy, and tried
to keep him to the matter in hand. But
whether he was ignorant, or reticent, he
certainly gave as little information as

possible about the girl's state, and extracted
all the details about her that
he could from Miss Hatchard ; then
he went away, and said he would call
again tomorrow.

Miss Hatchard did all she could for the
girl  bathed her burning head, and tried
to assuage her thirst. She had put her
into her own bed, and she sat beside her,
like the good creature that she was,
without fire on that cold evening, because
the sick girl was to be kept as cool as
possible.

How anxiously she listened and waited
for David, or the visitor of the morning.
She was half afraid that the latter would
never come again, that the girl's words
had shocked him too deeply. But she
wronged him by the doubt ; for he did
come, and stayed long with her, sat by
the girl's bed, and bathed her forehead,
and listened to all that Miss Hatchard
could tell him of the troubled life that

seemed passing by a troublous and
stormy passage from among them.

' She must be taken away before she
gets any worse," he said. ' She has
brain fever coming on, and she will be
worse in a few days than she is now.
Perfect quiet and good air are what she
needs. She cannot get either here."

*' Eight you are there," said Miss
Hatchard, sympathizing. ' For, what
with the children, and the carts, and the
costers, and the hand-organs, and the
smuts, and the fogs, there ain't no quiet,
nor much Air, to be got 'ere."

' I believe it will be less dangerous to
move her than to keep her here. I will
have an invalid carriage brought to the
door early in the morning, before the
streets are crowded  say at five o'clock 
and then we will take her down slowly.
It is only thirty miles, and we can do it
easily in six hours, going slowly."

 It do go to my very heart to part

with her," said Miss Hatchard, beginning
to cry;  but I know it is for her good.
Lor, to think of how her poor par looked
upon you as the fullest of /eirs, and
you so kind all the time ! "

' I blame myself very much," he replied,
'that I never tried to find out
what had become of my cousin. In
point of fact, I have never thought of
him for years. I had an idea, I don't
know why, that he went to Italy with
his wife after he lost his money, and
that she was a woman of fortune. I
might have helped him in many ways,
if he had only let me know his distresses."

'but are you really the 7eir?" asked
Miss Hatchard, dubiously.

I believe the property is rightly mine,
most certainly. I shall, when 1 have got
this poor girl safely away, go to the
British Museum and ask to see the paper
to which my poor cousin attached so much
importance. But even if it does prove

that old Sir John Thorold had a son, and
that my cousin can trace his descent back
to him, it will not affect the disposition of
the property, bat only the baronetcy, and
that has been in abeyance, or really probably
extinct, for three generations."

' Lor, now ! " said Miss Hatchard, opening
her eyes very wide ;  and to think
now of that poor old gentleman worritin'
himself to death for nothing."

*' His losses and his wife's death must
have affected his mind," said Mr. Thorold,
sadly. ' Poor fellow ! I remember him
as a bright, enthusiastic young man. We
were good friends once, and there was
never even a question about my right to
the property then. This idea must have
come after his losses. But about this
poor girl. Miss Hatchard ? Shall I be in
your way if I stay here with her ? "

' Tm a going to sit up with her," said
Miss Hatchard, stoutly. ' You ses go
and get a nap ; I'm all right."

But you were up last night and the
night before."

 Lor, that ain't nothing'. Many's the
night as I've sat up to work ; and I shep'
most of the day yesterday. Besides,"
added the Httle woman, beginning to cry
again, *  ain't she going away from me
to be a grand lady, and I shan't never
see her no more ? "

** It wil not be my fault if that is the
case," said her visitor, kindly; *' and I
do not believe that my cousin wil ever
forget one who has been her truest
friend. Besides, Miss Hatchard "  and
he looked round the room with a smile  
' I should like my girls' portraits to be
painted, as you have done their cousin's; "
and he looked at Fiametta's picture on
the wall.

** Oh dear ! you are real kind, you
are," said Miss Hatchard, with a smile
and a sob appearing simultaneously.
'' If that ain't the second real good order

in two months. Lor, I am getting' on
now ! "

*'I am sure yon deserve to," said Mr.
Thorold, shaking hands with her. ' I
will send a nurse here early to help you
dress her, and she will take her down with
me. Good-bye. I shall see you again,
then. Stay ! Would you like me to
send the nurse to-night ? "

'' Oh, Lor, no ; I don't want no
strange nurses ! " cried Miss Hatchard,
with a lively remembrance of the
 monthlies," several of whose portly
forms resided in Harcourt Street. ' No,
no strange nurses for me. I can manage
the poor dear  and the last night, too ! "

And so Mr. Thorold departed.

He had only just gone, when David's
telegram was brought. Miss Hatchard
read it in some surprise.

'' Well, I shouldn't have thought it of
him," she mused. ' Gone off, and never
a word, and this poor dear like this. He

don't want no trouble with sickness ; yet
I shouldn't have thought it of him
neither.  Called away suddenly to
Broodleigh.' Oh yes, I essay, called
away to her ; " and she jerked her head
towards the smiling Fanny on canvas.
 Yes, you may smirk," she apostrophized
her own handiwork, ' smirk so much as
ever you mind to ; but ye ain't worth a
farthing' compared to her, with all your
money."

A sudden thought struck her, and she
stopped.

' Kametta will have some money, too,
I reckon, now," she went on. ' Oh, he
is a good one, that Air ! Treated as his
own daughter, he said she should be ; and
only a third cousin, after all ! She will
be a lady indeed now, and he will be
dawdling about after her, perhaps thinking
she have come into the fortune her
par talked of; and then perhaps he will
find out as her cousin don't settle nothing'

upon her  tie might not have meant
that; it couldn't be hardly expected 
and perhaps he will go and break her

heart, like No, no, young man ; you

don't do that. You had better marry
her, the rich one, as I've no doubt you
have engaged yourself solemn to do, and
leave my pretty dear alone."

What was the reason of Miss Hatchard's
dislike to David? She had liked him
well enough at first, had, in fact, rather
taken a fancy to him, until that evening
in the summer when she had seen something
in his face unnoticed by her
before.

Miss Hatchard had once had a sister.
The story is a very old one, and a very
common one. The sister was a beauty.
Miss Hatchard was the elder, and a plain
woman. She idolized her pretty sister,
treated her as a superior being, waited
upon her hand and foot, spent every
spare penny she could get on adornments

for her  helped to make her, in fact,
the wilful spoilt child she was.

Their father was a small tradesman.
He kept a little news shop, where fancy
articles and a few cheap toys were dispersed
in the window, and piles of newspapers
graced the doorway, and cheap
periodicals were handed over the counter.
It was not a very lucrative business,
neither was he a good man of business.
The trade of a small newspaper vendor and
fancy stationer does not present a very
alluring aspect to a keen-witted business
man. Mr. Hatchard was a quite man, and
a slow man, much addicted to a long pipe,
and a certain republic" round the corner,
which he supplied with papers. He liked
discussing the contents of the papers
there in a slow and impressive manner,
and gave his opinions thereupon as a
man of weight  a man who had all contemporary
literature as it were under his
thumb.

Under these circumstances it is not
difficult to believe that a good share of
the responsibility of the shop and its
management fell upon Mrs. Hatch ard,
who was a busy, bustling, striving little
woman. Maria, the elder girl, was
apprenticed to a working designer; and
Annie, the younger, was kept at home to
 mind the shop;" so the two girls did
not see very much of each other, except
in the evenings, and not very much then,
for Maria was often kept late at her work.
When Annie was about seventeen, and
at the height of her bright girlish beauty,
a change seemed to come over her. She
was sometimes unnaturally gay, at others
crying for no reason that could be discovered.
Maria was working very busily
just then to get a certificate for freehand
drawing, and all her evenings were occupied
; and as Annie must have fresh air,
she went out without her.

The end came very suddenly upon

these worthy folks  the quiet slow father,
the busy-bustling mother, the plain industrious
sister. Annie was gone. That
was all they knew. Gone, without a word
or a sign. Pretty girls do not generally
run away from kind homes by themselves ;
but neither old Mr. Hatchard nor his
wife lived to know who had destroyed
their darling. They both drooped quietly,
one after the other ; the busy mother first,
then the father. Maria buried them both
within ten months ; and as the business
had gone too, she sold what little stock
was left, and most of the furniture, and,
her term of apprenticeship being out,
tried to support herself with her pencil,
and seek for her lost sister.

She found no trace of her for years.
At last, in the Strand, as she was returning
from some business rather late one
night, she saw under an archway a
wretched creature being dragged up from
the ground by a policeman. She knew

the face at once, though sin and sorrow
and drink had made its beauty a thing of
the past.

She ran forward and held the drunken,
muddy head against her bosom, and
sobbed over it with the joy and thankfulness
with which a girl might greet a
lover's return.

 Leave her to me," she had said to
the policeman. ' She is my sister. Oh,
help me to get her away ! "

* Well, this ain't the first nor second
time as I've took her in this way. If you
like to engage as it shall be the last, I
don't mind letting her off. Such cases
ain't no credit nor pleasure to nobody."

*eyes, yes, yes," said Miss Hatchard ;
* she will come home with me. Help
me, get me a cab  anything ! "

And the poor creature woke out of her
sleep to find herself in her sister's arms.

There is no need to tell too minutely
what followed. The tears and joy and

sorrow, the long tale of misplaced love
and confidence, the heartless seduction,
and the bitter awakening and forsaking
that came afterwards. Poor Annie, fallen
to woman's lowest depth though she was,
was yet loyal in one thing  she would
never tell her lover's name. It was the
one little vestige of the loving girl left
in her, for Annie had sunk low indeed ;
her sister respected it, and never sought
to force her confidence. But she had
a locket, a cheap little worthless thing
that she had believed to be pure gold, as
she had believed her lover's love to be
when it was given her. It held a scrap
of hair  bright brown curling hair  and
a photograph with the letters 'D. E."
under it.

 That was he," Annie had said, sand
those were his initials ; " but beyond this
she never went.

She lived for some years, a broken-down,
weak woman, unable to do anything

but cry over her troubles, and
moan that her sister kept her one comfort
from her. Sometimes, when she was a
little stronger, she would get it in spite
of Maria's watchfulness. She would even
pawn her sister's half completed pictures
for a few pence, and spend them in gin,
and be found by Maria, when she came
back from her hurried visits to the firm
she worked for, speechless upon the floor.
Miss Hatchard had a terrible life for
those few years, until at last the poor
weak creature died, and her burden was
lifted from her.

She had not felt it as a burden ; she
grieved as much over her poor Annie's
death as if she had been in the first
flower of her youth and beauty. She
was a lonely woman. For Annie's sake
she had dropped all her old associates,
lest they should wound her sister with
their words, or see her in one of her
drunken fits ; and now she had no heart

to make any new friends, even if she had
the time, for much of her connection had
been lost, as she nursed her sister in her
last illness; and times were very hard
indeed for Miss Hatchard, saddled with
debts to doctors and tradespeople, for
poor Annie had been allowed to want for
nothing.

She had kept the locket hidden away
in a box for years, and had not given
a thought to it, till something in the
expression of David's face as he sat
looking at Fiametta in her window recalled
it to her mind in an instant.
When they had both gone away, she took
it out and looked long at it. There were
the same features, the same waving dark
hair, the same everything, except the
expression; but she had caught that
expression once, and it was enough.

She held it up to the light and examined
it. The place had been scratched with a
knife after the letter ' ' E . " Was it possible

VOL. III. 36

V

that the name had once been written in
full ? She examined it minutely. There
was certainly an upward stroke that
looked like a  at the end ; and by dint of
rubbing and close examination, she was
enabled to make enough of the letters left
to feel sure that the name was Everest.

She took the first opportunity she
could get to ask David what his father's
name was. ' David," he had answered.

From other inquiries, made apparently
without much object in them, she learned
that Colonel Everest had been in London
in the very year in which her Annie had
disappeared. She no longer entertained
any doubt as to his being the man who
had ruined her sister, and a great and
bitter anger rose up in her heart against
David. In the most unreasoning manner
she judged the son by the father, and
from that time believed unhesitatingly
that David's friendship with Fiametta
was instigated by the worst possible

motives. She did every thing she could
to keep the girl away from him, but she
could do very little, for Fiametta was nota
girl easily controlled by any one.

Now as she sat beside the girl's bed,
and thought of all that had passed  her
Annie's broken life, and the attention that
David had paid Fiametta  and then considered
the girl's altered circumstances,
she framed a strong resolve within herself
that in one way or another she would
break that connection. David's telegram
seemed put into her hands on purpose to
carry out her design. He would be away
when Fiametta left Harcourt Street.
There was no reason why he should ever
know where she had gone.

Life at Broodleigh Eectory flowed on
evenly enough, although the rector lay
dying in his bed. Mrs. Everest was not
the woman to let the household be upset
because her brother was ill. The servants
were all marshalled into prayers morning
and evening with the same, or even
greater, regularity than before, for poor
Mr. Burney had never been able to attain
to his sister's standard of punctuality.
Meals were served at the same hours.
The daily service in the church was performed
by a needy curate, hunted up by
Mrs. Everest herself, from Exeter. Fanny
had her walks and drives, her practising

and fancy work. Very little was altered
in the household, and that little chiefly
concerned David.

David absolutely refused to leave his
uncle, except for his meals. There was
a good nurse hired for him, for Mrs.
Everest was not the woman to neglect
her duty towards the sick ; but her office
was reduced to a short time of night-watching,
for nobody wanted her in the
sick room in the daytime ; David and his
uncle only desired to be left alone.

It was in vain that Mrs. Everest called
for him to go for walks with Fanny, or to
drive herself, or even to go out for his
own sake. David was as obstinate as
she was, and at last flatly refused, after
evasions and excuses had failed. He
would go out in the garden for a pipe
after dinner, and that was aU he would do.

*you are throwing away the health
and strength that God gave you," she
said severely, when he had refused to

listen to the assurance that walking was
good for him.

' If I am, I am bestowing it on one of
the best of His productions," said David.
* Besides, nonsense, mother, you know
how short a time I have to stay with
him, and I don't suppose I shall be able
to get any extra leave."

'your uncle may last for years," she
answered.

God grant it ! " he replied. '' I only
wish that I had done as he would have
liked, and gone into Orders, for then I
might be his curate."

It was what I asked you to do," she
said angrily; 'but, there, my wishes
never went for anything with you ! At
least," she added, in a softer voice,
thinking of her one great wish, "let me
hope, David, that you will do something
to please your poor mother before she
dies. It will be a grievous reflection for
you, David, when I am gone, if you are

unable to think that you gratified one of
my desires for your happiness. Ah ! how
often have I regretted that I would not
allow your poor dear father to wear waxed
ends to his moustache when we were in
Paris ! He liked waxed ends, but I never
could bear them; they were so French.
You will be sorry you have not tried to
please me more, David, when I am on
my death-bed."

 My dear mother, I do all I can to
please you," said David, rather bewildered
by his mother's speech, and remembering
his Civil Service appointment.

* Yes, my dear boy," she said, and she
kissed him on the forehead, in what was
for her a wonderful transport of affection,
"I believe you will. See, there is dear
Fanny with some flowers for your uncle 
the last rose, I believe. How thoughtful
she is ! "

** So she is," said David, pleased for
once to be able to agree with his mother.

and supposing that her embrace proceeded"
from some natural softening of the heart
because of her brother's illness.

David always, so to say, gave his mother
the benefit of any doubt that could reasonably
be entertained as to the motives
for her conduct. He was more than ever
inclined now to make the best that could
be made of her when his uncle would
soon be to him but a memory  the
sweetest and best memory of his life, buta
memory only.

Fanny went with him upstairs, with
her bunch of autumn flowers in her hand.
Autumn lingers long in those southern
counties of England, and chrysanthemums
and roses will flower in sheltered gardens
until Christmas.

Old Mr. Burney was not particularly
fond of flowers. It is not known that he
ever noticed that there were such things,
except, perhaps, in the illuminated pages
of a missal. Probably he did know a rose

from a fascia  most men, even scholars,
do  but beyond this his knowledge certainly
did not go ; so what pleasure he
was to derive from a bunch of flowers in
his bedroom, it would be difficult to say.
David decided that he must consider
Fanny's motive, and ignore the utility
of the offering, a principle that is much
commended in many religions.

She did not go in. Mrs. Everest had
thought it 'better not." So Fanny
stood outside, and uttered a few commonplace
sentiments of hopes and fears
relative to Mr. Burney's health in her
clear, well-modulated voice, and then
went down into the drawing-room, while
David carried her posy into the sickroom.
' She is a dear girl ! " murmured
the old man, ' a very thoughtful, sweet
girl. She will make a good wife,
Davie."

** Yes," said David, feeling a sudden
desire to toss the bouquet into the fire 

"yes; she is a very good sort. Would
you like me to read to you now,
uncle ? "

"Presently, my dear lad, presently.
Put the poor Httle flowers down gently,
Davie ; it was thoughtful of the dear girl
to gather them for me. My kindest love
to her, when you go down."

David stuck the bouquet into the top
of the water-bottle, where it looked like
some "specimens" at a horticultural
show; and then seated himself by his
uncle's bedside, with an uncomfortable
feeling that somehow his uncle was going
to continue a conversation that was distasteful
to him.

"It grieves me," the old man went on,
Davie, that I have not been able to
fulfil my term of guardianship to the dear
girl until she is of age. It wants four
months to that. Your mother thinks
that she had better go and live at the
Hall with some elderly lady, who could

chaperone her. I think so, too, and I
want you to write to George Betterton
about it ; but it will be a lonely life for a
young girl, Davie."

* She will probably marry," said David,
feeling suddenly very cold.

He felt that he could not bear it, if his
old uncle should speak to him as his
mother had spoken. He knew that if he
did so his fate was sealed. It was not in
David to refuse to, if needs be, sacrifice
his whole Hfe for the peace of mind
of his dying uncle. And to marry
Fanny could scarcely be called a great
sacrifice, upon the whole ; yet he felt at
that moment a stronger repugnance to
doing so than he had ever considered
possible before. Events are apt to show
themselves in wonderfully clear colour
and right proportions in the light of a
sick room. David knew that if his uncle
even expressed a wish upon the subject,
he should marry Fanny, and he also

knew that he should be very miserable
afterwards.

But old Mr. Burney was not thinking
of ordering any man's life. Good, simple
soul, it was the very last wish he had.
Nothing was further from his thoughts
than to impress his individual wishes
upon the life of any man, woman, or
child. Nothing but the very strongest
conviction that the Church's teaching was
unmistakable on that point would have
induced him in bygone days even to warn
and exhort his flock to bring their children
to be baptized. He had the least of the
'director" part of the priestly office
about him that any man could have had.
He was emphatically a "minister at the
altar," a dispenser of gifts from above;
not a dogmatist, nor a preacher, nor an
exhorter, nor a guide, but a minister.

So David and he for once misunderstood
each other. David was full of his
mother's words, and Fanny's half-shown

love ; Mr. Burney of his charge, and the
guardianship that he must so soon lay
aside.

Yes," he answered; ' I suppose she
will marry. It is that which grieves me,
Davie, lad. She knows so Httle of the
world and of men, she may give herself
away to some worthless fellow, who only
takes her for her fortune. I could wish
to have been spared to see her happily
settled, Davie."

David could not speak ; it seemed as if
his fate was trembling in the balance.
The old man went on 

*' Her cousin has never concerned himself
about her. Doubtless he has other
affairs of consequence. I can scarcely
hope that he will pay much attention to
her now, and he must be an old man.
Davie, Davie, my dear lad, I could
wish   " And Mr. Burney paused, and
looked anxiously at his nephew.

' Dear Uncle Theoo, I will do what you

wish," said David, in, it must be confessed,
a choking voice. He was giving
away himself, poor fellow ! and he was a
consideration to himself, if to nobody-else
.

' Thank you, dear lad. You are young,
but you are to be trusted; " and the old
man looked lovingly upon him. 'You
will look after the poor girl as far as is
proper and right ; see that no worthless
fellow gets hold of her. Fanny will listen
to you, and respect your opinion. She
has always greatly regarded you from a
child. Davie, lad, what is the matter ? "
For David had raised his head and given
vent to one of his old shouts of boyish
laughter ; the relief to him was so great.
What is it, Davie?" said his uncle,
unable to see where the joke lay, but
smiling feebly in sympathy with his
lad.

' Why, Uncle Theoo, I thought you
wanted me to marry her," explained

David, wiping his eyes of the tears his
laughter had occasioned, * and I was
preparing myself in spirit to be tied down
to the horns of the altar and offered in
sacrifice."

Nay, Davie, lad; perhaps we have
erred. I have never known marriage
myself. Your poor dear mother's experience
was not But we will not

talk of that. Maybe your poor father
was hampered by his other duties. I
believe a military calling is a very hard
and anxious one. But, Davie, we may
have formed a wrong estimate of
marriage."

*say," said David. "But, uncle, you
must allow that the remedy is as irrevocable
as the mistake."

Mr. Burney, weak as he was, gave a
little chuckle. Anything that David said
in the way of a joke seemed to him now
so irresistibly funny.

*the fact is," said David, gravely,

*' marriage is very good for women, but
not for men; therefore, it happens that
a certain number of the male sex have
annually to be sacrificed for the sake of
the women whom it will improve. Let
us therefore find an inoffensive specimen
and offer him to Fanny."

But though he spoke lightly, his heart
was very heavy  for did he not know
how poor Fanny's feelings lay ?  and he
could not but see that his uncle was
regarding him in quite a new and unexpected
light.

' But we have had no experience," he
said, as David concluded.  And, David,
I cannot but think that a good loving
wife would work no harm on you."

** Don't, don't ! " said David, getting
up and speaking with an energy he had
not shown before. '' Don't, Uncle Theoo ;
don't say another word on the subject
now. I couldn't bear it."

''My dear lad!" said his uncle, astonished.

'Why, Davie, as if I would
sever "

'' No, no, Uncle Theoo, dear Uncle
Theoo, I know yoii never would ; but
don't speak of it again. At least, not
now," David added hastily, as he saw
a sudden disappointment take the place
of the light of hope in his uncle's eyes.
Dear Uncle Theoo, I will think about it,
and I will do whatever you wish ; but
don't talk of it now."

* My only wish is for your happiness,"
said the old man, looking at him. ' My
dear lad, you have been the joy and
crown of my life ; let me not go down
to my grave thinking I have hampered
you by any wish of mine."

dear Uncle Theoo, no, I shall never
think that. We know each other too
well for that."

' We will go on with Lorenzana's
preface," said the old man ; and David
read to him for an hour, and for the

VOL. III. 37

first time in his life his thoughts were
far away from the book he read aloud,
for it was clear to him that his uncle
did wish for his marriage with Fanny.

David did not smoke his after-dinner pipe
that evening; he strolled into the ,
and chatted with his mother
and Fanny instead, before going up to
his uncle again. To make up for this,
however, he had not one pipe, but half
a dozen before he went to bed that
night. Mrs. Everest could hear him
crunching the gravel, as he walked up
and down in front of the house and underneath
her window  Mr. Burney's room
looked the other way, and commanded
a fine view of the stable-yard.

She wondered what was keeping him
up and out so late. His uncle was not

any worse ; indeed, no change had taken
place in him since the first shock of the
stroke had passed off. It was quite true,
as she had said, that he might live for
years. Why, then, was David so agitated?
She had noticed at dinner that he was
nervous, that he talked and laughed with
an affectation of high spirits that was unusual
with him ; and now she could hear
him walking heavily, as though in moody
thought, not as if in enjoyment of the
moonlight air and his pipe.

She lay awake and thought. David,
in his gloomy pacing down below, did
not give her credit for the anxiety that
kept her thoughtful and sleepless upstairs.
With all her faults, Mrs. Everest
had a deep and real interest in her son's
welfare. It was, perhaps, her very
anxiety on this head that made her
captious and exacting and complaining
to him. Goodness is often clothed in
unprepossessing forms. Mrs. Everest,

had she been more really selfishly inclined,
would have made a much more
pleasant mother.

Fanny was the only disquieting element
that she could think of. Was it possible
that David and his uncle had been talking
of her? She recalled to mind that
David had been curiously nervous and
unHke himself with Fanny that evening ;
had asked her to sing in a blundering,
awkward way ; and had then turned quite
red when she suddenly spoke to him 
evidences of disquietude of mind never
hitherto observed in that most calmly
indifferent of sons.

So Mrs. Everest lay awake, and thought
and planned and prayed, for she was a
genuinely religious woman ; and David
smoked and paced and, it must be confessed,
cursed all women in general,
though no one in particular, for raising
even the faintest barrier between himself
and his uncle. It was the first time

anything had been said between them
on which they were not of the same
opinion.

Mr. Burney, too, was awake, although
he had been settled for the night, and
the nurse was already dozing in her easy-chair.
His heart was with his lad out
in the night, for he had heard him go
out, and in the stillness could hear a
faint echo of his footsteps. He feared
he had expressed his msh with regard
to David's future too strongly, and that
this wish would unduly influence his
boy's decision. He longed for David to
leave London and his uncongenial toil, to
lead a life of learned ease, for which he
was so well adapted ; he also longed that
his ward should be safe and happy, and
should not fall into the hands of designing
fortune-hunters. But, above all things,
he desired his lad's happiness. Provided
David and Fanny loved each other, their
marriage would have closed his life in

perfect happiness. So he, too, lay awake
and thought, and prayed earnestly that
his selfish wishes might not blind his
eyes, but that the lad's happiness might
be helped, not hindered by him.

And Fanny? Fanny  the cause of
all these cares and hopes and fears 
slept sweetly. She was a good sound
sleeper, and took her ten hours of that
refreshment nightly. Her cheeks would
not have been so rosy, her eyes so
bright, nor her neck so white, had she
not slept so long ; for, like many heavy
fair women, she required a good deal of
rest. She came down in the morning
looking as bright as possible, and was
quite unconscious of there being anything
unusual the matter.

There was a letter for David that
morning from Miss Hatchard. A great
throb of his heart sent the blood rushing
through his veins as he recognised her
handwriting. The image of Fiametta,

now pathetic in its lonely helplessness
now white and agonised by sin and
terror, had been before his eyes all night.
He had been trying to think of Fannj,
of his uncle's wish respecting her, but
he had only been able to dwell in thought
upon the *' little girl" of the gaunt attic
in Bloomsbury.

He trembled as he took the letter up.
He had written twice to Fiametta, and
once to Miss Hatchard, and this was the
first answer that had come from either
of them. A sudden terror that she was
dead came to him, and for the first few
minutes he could hardly read the few
curt lines of which the letter consisted.
Fiametta had left Harcourt Street, Miss
Hatchard said. She had had an offer
of bettering herself, and had gone. She
had left no message for any one, nor any
address ; and the writer seemed to have
an especial pleasure in dwelling upon
these statements, for she repeated them

again at the end of her letter, as if she
enjoyed them.

'good gracious, David!" said Mrs.
Everest, as she came into the room,
'what is the matter with yon? Your
face is quite white, and your Hps are
trembling."

I  I have a headache," said David,
turning and looking at her with troubled,
glazed eyes ; and then he went out of
the room with the letter in his pocket.

The iron band about his heart had
tightened, until he scarcely seemed able
to breathe. He was only conscious of
suffering the most horrible and suffocating
anxiety. He did not think of
himself, at least not consciously ; all his
fear was for the girl, who by her passion
had perhaps been led into a grave of her
own seeking. He thought that to such
a nature as hers, self-destruction might
well be an ever present, ever possible,
and easy way of escape from trouble.

He could not wait to write, but almost
ran down to the telegraph office in the
village, and despatched a telegram to
Miss Hatchard.

Is she alive? Tell me where she is,
or with whom she is. Reply at once."

No answer came until the evening, and
then it gave but very scanty information.

' She have left here with a friend, and
will be well took care of. I shall not
say any more."

This was satisfactory in one way, but
not in another. The identity of this
friend must remain a miserable uncertainty,
and he puzzled himself in vain
thinking who could have befriended the
girl who had no friends, save Miss
Hatchard and himself. But he had little
time to bestow on thoughts even of
Fiametta now, for a sudden change for
the worse took place in Mr. Burney.
]paid never left him day or night, and
the memory of his half-expressed wish

about Fanny lay like a load of lead upon
his mind.

Perhaps the old man, with the keen
insight that comes of deep devotion,
knew what was passing in David's mind ;
for one night, just before the end, when
those two were quite alone together, he
looked up into his lad's eyes as he bent
over him, and said 

' Davie, dear lad, remember, I have no
wish about Fanny, except that you will
look after her affairs for her with her
cousin; no other wish at all."

*' If you have," said David, very gravely,
*' before God, I will carry it out."

** Dear lad, my owen lad, I have no
Lavish at all ; remember, Davie, no wish
at all."

David pressed his hand and was silent ;
and thus the first and last faint cloud
that had ever come between them passed
away. David never left him again, and
the next day he was gone  died with his

hand in David's, his eyes turned towards-him,
and a beautiful smile upon his face
for him wIjo was as the son of his love.

Of the three left behind, David made
by far t}i(t least fuss about his grief.
Fanny lead never been in the presence
of Death before, and her nerves gave
way, and she sobbed and cried hysterically.
She was really very sorry that her kind old
guardian was dead  very sorry, indeed;
but the darkened rooms, and the stealthy
creep of the servants, and the men wha
came in and out mysteriously, were all
rather more awful to her than the loss
she had sustained. She brightened up
after the funeral, and put fresh flowers
in the rooms, and went for her accustomed
walks with renewed vigour. Death
was Unpleasant and exciting, and ought
to be ignored as much as possible.

Mrs. Everest wept a great deal for the
first few days  wept sincerely now it was
too late over the many crosses she had

laid upon those meek shoulders. She
was not a hard-hearted woman, only
domineering and uncertain-tempered.
Mrs. Everest and women like her have
very real suffering. They lay up the
foundations of it carefully during a long
career of activity, and weep over the
consequences of their faults at leisure
in their old age, or when Death steps in
and rois them of the object of their
attentions.

David and his mother came nearer
together in these first days of their
common loss than they had ever done
before. Perhaps David's quietude under
the blow that had fallen upon him deceived
his mother. She did not understand the
depth of such quiet grief, and so gave
him credit for caring less about his
uncle's death than he did. Her vehement,
noisy grief was a great comfort to her ina
little while, and became, after the first
bareness of it was over, almost as much

of a consolation to her as a good conscience
respecting the dead could have
been. She had been a very afflicted
widow, and was now an equally bereaved
sister ; and it took very little time for her
to believe that she and her brother had
been united by the holiest ties of mutual
affection and closest friendship.

Fanny was very sorry for the old man's
death, too. He had ever been kind and
affectionate to her, and she missed him in
his accustomed place. But she did not
break her heart, or anything like it ; only
she preserved a decorous gravity, and
never even suggested lawn tennis, although
the weather was bright and clear for three
days after the funeral. On the fourth
day after the funeral, she did mention the
subject at breakfast. St. Martin's summer
had fulfilled its engagements that year,
and with such ardour that, but for the
leafless branches, it would be easy to
believe September was not yet over.

Therefore Fanny's suggestion was not as
out of place in Devonshire as might
appear to fog-tormented Londoners in
early November.

' The nets are all taken in, and the
courts will have to be marked out ; it's
too much trouble," said David.

'Not if Fanny wishes it," said Mrs.
Everest, reprovingly, but thinking at the
same time that opportunities for conversation
are rather wanting in lawn tennis.
** Would not a walk be better on such a
lovely day?"

** I am going back to town tomorrow,"
said David ; " my leave is up."

Mrs. Everest began to be pathetic.

"You surely won't go away and leave
us now ? " she said. " What are we to do
about the house ? Oh, David, I did not
think you could be so unkind ! "

' It is not unkindness, mother ; but I
must go and see Fanny's guardian. He
has taken no notice of my letters to him.

We must get his consent for her to live
at the Hall."

''I can't live there without mamma,"
said Fanny, decisively. "I should die;
I know I should."

* Nothing can he settled until I see
Mr. Betterton," said David. ' I will try
and get a few days' special leave, and
come down again, mother ; but it won't
do for me to risk my place now;" and
David sighed heavily.

*I don't see why you ever went to
such a horrid place," said Fanny, in her
calm, not-to-he-contradicted voice. ' It
was absolutely unnecessary, and I am sure
poor Uncle Theoo thought so."

David got up and walked away 'from
the breakfast table. He could not bear
that allusion to his uncle from Fanny's
Hps. Mrs. Everest was horror-struck.
That David and Fanny should quarrel
would wreck all her hopes.

'run after him, Fanny!" she cried.

 Tell him you did not mean to hurt his
feelings."

Fanny turned red and white.

' I have not hurt his feelings," she
said. ' Mamma, David knew quite well
that Uncle Theoo did not like his going."

Yes; but he can't bear for you to
reproach him with it," said Mrs. Everest,
ignoring the fact that she herself had
sent David to London. ' Perhaps it was
a mistake, and I am sure he feels it so
now, poor fellow ! Eun after him, and
tell him you did not mean to hurt him,
Fanny."

*'I shall do nothing of the kind," said
the young lady, very deliberately.  David
behaved very rudely in going away like
that without a word;" and, with head
erect, Fanny sailed out of the room.

Mrs. Everest began to cry; but she
suddenly stopped and brightened up.

*If it really is going to be a quarrel,"
she said to herself, ' perhaps after all

VOL. m. 38

nothing could be better; for they must
make it up before he goes away, and
there is nothing like making up a quarrel
to bring people together. It is a good
sign that he was so touchy with her. I
never knew him pay so much attention
to anything she said before ; " and Mrs.
Everest comforted herself, and was vastly
proud of this latest stroke of generalship
on her part.

Fanny's words had annoyed David precisely
because they came from her. They
seemed to point out to him what he
feared his uncle really had wished about
Fanny, before he perceived David's disinclination
towards her. His nerves were
overstrained by his watching, his sleepless
nights, the loss he had had, and his pain
about Fiametta. He had been obliged to
stay over the funeral, of course ; but he
meant to go back to London immediately
afterwards. He had felt unable to answer
Fanny without some amount of irritation,

SO to avoid doing that he walked
away.

Without caring very much where he
went, he strolled into the stable-yard, at
the back of the house. His mother's
pony was there being groomed, and a
fine young spirited mare was in the loose
box. She had recently been purchased
for Fanny, as that young lady had expressed
a desire to ride. She had not
mounted her yet, as the saddle and habit
had not come from Exeter ; and the
steady old man of all outdoor work, who
had been at the Eectory ever since David
was a child, had found the energetic
movements of the new purchase rather
dislocating to his elderly rheumatic limbs ;
so the mare was decidedly restless, for
want of sufficient exercise.

David looked at the mare. She was a
pretty creature, with a small head and
good legs ; but her eyes were very bright,
and her head restless.



 llUmi

' Looks rather a good sort," he said to
the man.

'Eas; ought to be for the money she
cost. Out o' the way, Muster David, for
her be a bit frisky this morning."

 Has she been out lately ? "

** Why, no ; not to say lately. I got a.
sight o' things to tend to. The wheels
o' thick rashly ould hearse cut up th'
walks, so as I've been hard to work to
smooth 'un. Don't 'ee go a nigh her.
Muster David."

But the old man's warning came too
late. With that disregard of a horse's
legs that forms one of the characteristics
of ignorance of that noble animal's
peculiarities, David ventured up to the
mare, intending to give her that patronising
pat on the nose that must be so
exasperating to all superior horses.

* Whoa, poor old girl," he said.

But the poor old girl, resenting the
liberty taken by a perfect stranger, wheeled

as sharply half round on her four legs as she
could have upon two, and, backing David
in a very neat and able manner up against
the partition between the boxes, gave hint
a smart tap on the shin with one of her
feet ; and then, with a playful '' scrooge "
of her round body, so as to show him she
bore him no malice, began to rummage
in her manger to see if by accident any
hay was left there from breakfast.

David would have dropped but for the
scrooge ; " for the mare had broken his
leg, and a faintness came over him. But
old Eogers had him out of the horse-box
in no time, and, laying him on the stone
floor, dashed a pail of water over him, to
** bring him to," as he said.

But David only partly came to," for
the pain and the ' scrooge " had been
rather too much for him ; and he fainted
again, in the very act of receiving a
second supply of water from the considerate
Offers.

Of course, the whole household was
roused in no time ; and David, with a
good deal of difficulty, was moved into
the study. A tall young man, even of
so slim a make as "David, may present
considerable opposition of weight to
three or four frightened women and
an elderly man. They lugged him in
between them somehow ; Mrs. Everest
holding the broken limb, and Fanny one
of his hands. Fanny was more frightened
than anybody It was something dreadful
to her to see David with his head hanging
back, his eyes shut, and his face white ;
and to help to carry him was a depth
of experience far beyond Fanny's previous
imagination.

When he was laid upon the sofa in the
study, and the servants were all sent
scurrying in different directions for burnt
feathers, and dry clothes, and brandy,
and hot bottles, and rags, and bandages,
and every medical appliance that a distracted

establishment can call to mind on
such an emergency, Fanny was left fora
few minutes alone with David lying
white and helpless before her.

Fanny was not one of those women
who give way easily to crying. Her
feelings were not of the evaporating
nature, but she did cry now ; for she was
frightened, and she loved the helpless
form before her with all the love that a
somewhat phlegmatic nature could bring
to bear upon anything. * She still held
his hand, for she had never relinquished
it from the first, and her warm tears fell
upon it as she bent over it. It is a
common-place situation enough  a girl
crying over her lover's hand  at least,
common-place in books. It was anything
but common-place to David, when he
regained consciousness enough to perceive
it. Indeed, so horrified was he at
the situation, that a whole room full of
burnt feathers would not have got a

single sneeze out of him. He instantly
resolved that this faint should last until
somebody else came into the room.

Nobody did come for some time. Mrs.
Everest, having perhaps an inkling of
how things were, had degenerated" the
servants all over the upper part of the
house ; Eogers was galloping off on
the pony to the nearest doctor ; and she
herself was hunting out remedies from her
medicine cupboard, a repository of awful
compounds, out of which she physicked
the school children and the labourers for
everything, from a toothache to a bad
knee.

Fanny wept on. It was rather pleasant
after a bit : it was very nice to hold
David's hand, and it lay so helplessly on
hers. She did not mind how long she
held it.

David felt that things were growing
serious. He could not keep up this sham
faint much longer. He had an uncomfortable

consciousness that if the throbbing
in his leg did not soon improve, that he
should be obliged to find relief in that
profanity in which his liturgiological
studies had made him so proficient ; and
there was also a disagreeable certainty
that a deep red was growing in his face
on account of this very embarrassment.
Even so innocent a girl as Fanny must
know that a young man does not lie ina
faint with a deep rose suffusing his
cheeks, and the very consciousness of
this turned David crimson. Then a faint
groan escaped from his lips, for in the
agony of that flush he had slightly moved
his broken leg.

Fanny dropped his hand instantly.
She was not the girl to give any encouragement
unsought to any man. She
could not restrain her tears, but she
dropped them into her handkerchief, instead
of upon his hand. Lest she should
take it again, David opened his eyes.

* Where is my mother?" he said.
*' Don't cry, Family."

' Oh, dear David ! are you better ? "

** Scarcely, till my leg is set. It's
broken, I suppose ? "

 Eogers is gone for the doctor," said
Fanny. ' Oh, David, will you forgive
me for being so unkind this morning ? "
and poor Fanny sobbed hysterically.

*' Don't cry, Fanny dear ; there is
nothing to forgive. You will make yourself
ill ; besides, I am not dying."

' You are not angry with me ? Oh,
David, mamma said I was so unkind ! "

Nonsense," said David, a Httle
pettishly ; ' you were nothing of the sort.
Have I been put under the pump ? "

* Eogers threw some water over you,"
said Fanny, drying her eyes, and feeling
as if some of that wholesome fluid had
been applied to her.

'' Some water! A quiverful; I am wet
through!"

We were all so frightened at your
fainting," said Fanny, timidly  David
awake was so different from David in a
faint. * Oh, don't do it again ! " she
cried, as she saw a pallor spread over his
face.

brandy," he said; and, as Mrs. Everest
came in with her arms full of things,
Fanny ran to the sideboard in the diningroom,
and brought him some.

'Did you think I was a temperance
cause?" he asked sulkily, as he tried to
get off his wet necktie. '' I don't care so
much for a broken leg ; but I am not
going to be pumped on to please anybody."


"Oh, my dear boy! Eogers was so
frightened."

Well, he didn't think drowning would
restore me to life, I suppose ? "

*' David, David, think of your mercies.
You might have been killed. Where would
you have been then ? "

 In Abraham's bosom, or the other
place," said David. 'please go away,
and let me get my shirt off. I am not
going to have rheumatic fever to please
Rogers."

' Oh dear, what a dreadfully rebellious
frame of mind he is in!" said Mrs.
Everest to Fanny, as they went into the
hall.  He might have been kicked to
death, and now I can hear him using
such awful language at his clothes. Oh
dear, it is dreadful ! "

David certainly was in the most outrageously
bad temper. A broken leg is
not a pleasant thing, but it scarcely
justifies the stream of execration that
David bestowed upon his as soon as his
mother and Fanny were out of the room.
Here he was laid up for several weeks,
just at the very time when it was most
necessary that he should go away. There
was Fiametta to see after (he thought of
her first), Fanny's guardian to see, some

arrangement to be made for his mother 
a home to provide for her, unless she
Event with Fanny to the Hall  and, last
and not least, if he remained bound down
to a bed, in the hands of his mother and
Fanny, how could he get out of proposing
to the latter ?

So David fretted and fumed, and by
the next day was in a considerable fever,
and for a good many days he had rather
a bad time of it. His mind wandered a
good deal, and he was reduced to such
a state of utter helplessness and weakness
that he could scarcely raise his hand to
his face. In such a plight, what can a
man do but submit to his mother, if she
be with him ? and David made the meekest
of patients.

OuE hero was now in a favourite position
of the traditional hero of romance 
stretched on the bed of pain, with a fair
damsel ministering to his wants. It was
highly romantic, but not at all to David's
taste. David never had a soul for the
sentimental, or an eye for the picturesque,
or a yearning after the infinite, or, in
fact, any aspirations at all, unless it were
to live peaceably, and humbly follow after
liturgical lore. The present role of prostrate
knight with a ministering angel did
not suit him at all.

He was not a bad patient, in the
ordinary sense of the word ; that is, he

was neither impatient nor fretful, he took
his medicines, and kept himself quiet ;
but he was terribly, terribly bored, for he
was not allowed to smoke.

His mother  conscientious woman  sat
up with him at nights and tended him
most of the days. Whenever David
opened his eyes, they seemed to rest on
her little wiry, upright figure ; and the
moment she caught his glance, up went her
sharp little forefinger, and a " Hu-s-sh ! "
hissed through the room. Yet David
was not going to speak, far from it. He
did not even want to look at anybody,
much less talk to them.

After his first restless, half-delirious
days were over, she began to read aloud
from the thick black volume she always
had on a little table beside her. David
from his youth up had entertained a lively
hatred of that strongly bound, stamped,
leather-covered volume, with its innumerable
slips of paper and texts and markers

His worst sufferings as a lad had been
connected with that sombre book ; and
now in his weakness it seemed to haunt
him Hke a night-mare, for it was always
before him, and even when asleep he
heard the heavy greasy flap of its leaves
they had been too well thumbed to
rustle.

Mrs. Everest read to her son such
soothing portions of Scripture as were
most likely to awaken him to a sense
of sin, and otherwise disturb his mind.
His present illness she looked upon in
the light of a dispensation of Providence
working specially in her behalf. She
had never had David all to herself before,
since they first came to the Eectory ; it
was a blessed opportunity, and she made
the most of it. Accordingly, she went
through the Lamentations of Jeremiah to
him, followed by a course of the smaller
prophets, and the most withering chapters
of Ezekiel ; with a few strong chapters

out of Job thrown in for a variety ; and
some sermons of the  speedy damnation "
class, from her own pet preachers for an
afternoon homily.

Such exhilarating fare as this, so soon
after his uncle's death and Fiametta's
desertion of him, naturally produced a
certain effect on David. The most
noticeable symptom perhaps was his intense
sleepiness. He really scarcely
seemed able to keep awake at all; and
his mother was almost tempted to shake
him sometimes, when he began to snore at
about the third verse of a chapter. After
a day or two, however, she began to
suspect him, and read on through all his
pretended slumbers in a hard grating
voice, that left no hope for the prodigal
upon the bed.

In this extremity David turned to
Fanny. Surely Fanny might come and
talk to him now that he was able to
dress partly and to sit up in bed.

VOL. III. 39

Mrs. Everest hesitated. It was the
dearest wish of her heart; bnt was it
proper ? She finally decided that if David
put his coat on it was. So Fanny was
admitted, and as Mrs. Everest's readings
were discontinued during her visits, David
welcomed her more cordially than he
might otherwise have done.

All the same he was very glad to see
Fanny. His confinement bored him
frightfully, and his thoughts about this
time were far from pleasant. His easy,
careless indifference had given place to
a deep-seated pain and restless longing.
He grieved sincerely for his uncle ; he
was his first, best, and truest friend.
But deep as was his sorrow for the old
man, he exaggerated it to himself, for
his uncle's death was not the chief cause
of his pain. Fiametta's intended crime,
her heartless desertion of him, and her
indifference to him, pained him more
than he acknowledged to himself. Her

power over him was greater than he
knew, but he did know that he was
anxious and fearful both for her mind
and future.

Fanny chatted to him, Fanny sang to,
him, Fanny brought all her little arts
to amuse him. Perhaps she was happier
in these days than at any time of her
life, for she had David's attention more
completely than ever she had before ;
and as he grew stronger after his fever,
and so depended more and more upon
her for amusement, the happier and
brighter she became. She had never
been so sweet in David's eyes before.
A sick room is one of the best possible
backgrounds on which to show forth a
good woman's virtues, more especially
those of a possible wife. Fanny was quiet
and gentle in her movements, not brisk
and bustling Hke his mother; she was
serene and placid, not noisy, nor melancholy
; more particularly, she was not

given to exhortation, warning, nor rebuke.
Mrs. Everest was unconscious of
the foil she made to Fanny, but it served
her purpose well.

So matters went on for a while, and
David was able to get about with a
crutch, and Fanny and he saw more of
each other every day ; not a word came
in answer to his repeated letters to Miss
Hatchard ; and day by day there seemed
more reason why he should make Fanny
happy, and less reason why he should
think about Fiametta. And had not Mrs.
Everest grown tired of waiting, and tried
to hurry on matters a little, being one of
those worthy women who never can let
well alone, it was possible that David
might have drifted into a sort of tacit
engagement with the heiress.

Of course, on old Mr. Burney's death
a new rector had been appointed, who,
being a fellow of his college, was in no
very great hurry to enter into residence,

and had willingly agreed to allow Mrs.
Everest to remain in the old home until
after Christmas, a curate being engaged
to fulfil the clerical duties meanwhile.

This curate, who had lodgings in the
village was of course a frequent visitor
at the Rectory, and was very soon received
there in the fraternal fashion so
common among clerical families in the
country; that is, he came in whenever
he liked, and at any hour that suited
him, and if lunch or dinner happened to
arrive, he stayed and partook of it. In
this way he saw a good deal of Fanny,
especially at first, when David was unable
to come downstairs.

It is commonly known that curates 
young curates  are not generally deficient
in what is known among men as ' cheek; "
that is to say, they wall unhesitatingly,
by right as it were of their office, make
love to the prettiest and richest girls in
the neighbourhood, with nothing but the

*' cloth" and expectations to offer them.
Mr. Wilton Lethbmy, of course, fell in
love with Fanny. He was a young man,
pale-faced, and black-haired, with large
melancholy grey eyes, and a tendency to
consumption, which, with a precarious
income of one hundred pounds a year,
he was prepared to lay at the feet of the
heiress.

Few women can avoid feeling full of
pity towards a consumptive young man,
especially if he is tall and good-looking.
Every young man in Orders has potentialities
in women's eyes. He may be a
bishop, if he only lives. Mrs. Everest
gave him doses out of her medicine
cupboard, and prescribed flannel and
strengthening plasters. Fanny knitted
him a woollen comforter to wrap round
his throat and mouth when he went back
to his lodgings in the evenings. They
closed every window directly he came
into the house, and piled the fires up

the chimneys, until the unfortunate
youth was nearly suffocated in that mild,
damp climate. But he bore it all with
meekness, nay, with joy; for he adored
Fanny, and, even if he suffocated, he
would die at her feet. It was this
hapless young creature that Mrs. Everest
tried to use as a sort of rival to rouse
her son.

They were sitting in the craving-room
one evening, and Fanny had been singing,
and Mr. Lethbury had been turning over
the music for her, while David, it must be
confessed, yawned upon the sofa. He was
getting horribly tired of his present life.

' David," whispered Mrs. Everest, ina
stealthy manner, as the two at the
piano chatted together at the farther end
of the room, shave you noticed anything
lately?"

' Yes ; that I am getting fastidious
about the cooking. That goose was
villainously done to-day. Another broken

leg, and I shall develop into a gourmand.
Life is all meals at present."

'' David, you are so flippant ! Now
listen to me. Have you noticed nothing
about dear Fanny lately ? "

''No, nothing particular, except that
I have come to the end of her repertory,
I have literally talked her out. She
hasn't another idea left upon any
subject."

'' You are the most ungrateful boy that
ever lived ! And how that dear girl has
devoted herself to you lately ! " and
Mrs. Everest took out her handkerchief.

''So she has; she is a dear girl. It
isn't her fault that you can always tell
what she will say on any given subject.
She has been cast in moulds, and then
blocked together ; but she is a nice good
girl for all that."

I should think she was, indeed ! " said
Mrs. Everest, angrily. " The sweetest,
dearest girl that ever lived ! Now, mark

my words, David, if you don't step in
and win lier, somebody else will, and
carry her off before your very eyes;"
and Mrs. Everest looked very expressively
at the tall this figure bending over
the piano.

'you don't mean it?" asked David,
with a twinkle in his eyes that she could
not understand, and, therefore, it made
her more angry than she was before.

'' Yes, I do," she retorted. 'anybody
can see it with half an eye."

Then," said David, taking up the
book he had been reading, and speaking
with conscious superiority, "if Fanny
likes a skeleton tied up with a cough ina
black coat, let her have him;" and
he turned his back upon his mother, and
settled himseK to read ; but he looked so
often over the book at the skeleton in the
coat during the rest of the evening, that
his mother was comforted.

There was quite a beautiful benignity

about him as he bade Mr. Lethbuiy
good night and inquired after his cough,
an ailment that, though conspicuous, he
had never taken any notice of before ;
and he was more than usually affectionate
to Fanny, as she gave him her shoulder
to lean on going upstairs.

'dear David," thought Fanny, as she
closed her room door, and began to take
the hairpins out of her hair, ''he is so
kind to everything that is suffering.
How he does pity that poor Mr. Lethe
! " Here Fanny smiled, for of course
she knew of the curate's devotion, and
it was reassuring to find that David
pitied him for his hopeless attachment.
'' Poor fellow ! " she said  this time it
was Mr. Lethbury, not David, that she
alluded to. "He is very interesting.
Fancy David's having found it out,
though ! " and here Fanny smiled and
coloured, looking at herself in the glasses
she did so.

*dear David," said Mrs. Everest, as
she piously opened her Bible, and settled
herself into her armchair by her bedroom
fire, 'my words have opened his eyes
and made him feel his position. He
pressed her hand, I am sure ; and his
eyes were on her all the evening. There
is much to be thankful for." And Mrs.
Everest read the history of the golden
calf with much spiritual comfort and
refreshing, and went to bed, well satisfied
with this world and the next.

David's feelings were in a much more
undecided condition. He could scarcely
tell if he was glad or sorry. At first
there had arisen in his mind that ready
disparagement of his rival that is natural
to every healthy Englishman. No man
likes to be displaced in a girl's affections
by another man, even if he is not
violently in love with the girl in question.
David was not in love with Fanny,
but he had been fond of her for many

years, and he did not like the idea of
being supplanted by Mr. Lethbury. It
might perhaps have been somewhat of a
blow to his self-love to discover that
Fanny might really care as much for this
flimsy young man as she did for him.
Although he did not want to marry her,
he did not like the idea of her marrying
such a man as Mr. Lethbury. It
had not been from pure kindness that
he asked after Mr. Lethbury's cough and
recommended a respirator and goloshes,
but from motives as nearly malicious as
any that ever entered David's mind. He
forgot that consumption has in it something
rather attractive to girls  Heaven
only knows why, for it is ghastly enough
in all its stages  and also that women
have not that loathing of physical disease
that men so commonly have. Seeing that
much of a woman's life is spent in nursing,
it is merciful that they have not; possibly,
too, their superior capacity for pity

leaves no room for the other feelings.
David regarded consumption as a repulsive
disease, Fanny as a melancholy
and interesting complaint that added an
attraction to the possessor.

He did not pass a very good night.
He did not want to lose Fanny, neither
did he want to keep her, but on the
whole the idea of losing her was not so
bad as the idea of marrying her. He
had shrunk from this when his mother
first proposed it to him ; he shrank from
it more than ever now. Gradually, very
gradually, a thought had been coming to
him during the past few weeks. It took
definite shape in the long hours that he
lay awake that night, and he determined
that until he knew what had become of
Fiametta he would never marry Fanny.

He felt a little uneasy the next morning
as he dressed himself. He had often
wished during his illness that he had told
his mother and Fanny about the gui he

thought SO much about. He almost felt
that he had Fanny's love under false
pretences, seeing that she did not know
even of the existence of the person in
whom he felt most interest in the world.
He never contemplated so seriously the
possibilities of his marrying Fanny at some
remote period, as he did that morning
when he made up his mind to tell her
about Fiametta. There was something
solemn to him in this confidence, the
first he had ever given her. Her
reception of it might influence the course
of his life.

It was after breakfast that he resolved
to tell her, at the hour when his mother
investigated the state of the household
and stable-yard, and gave her orders for
the day.

 Fanny," David said, as soon as his
mother had left them alone together, ' I
have something to say to you."

Fanny, who was sitting beside the
window, kept her eyes fixed on the
distant landscape, but made no reply.
There was something in David's tone
that raised a certain antagonism within
her. Without knowing why, she felt
annoyed.

' I want to tell you about a friend of
mine  a girl that I knew in London."

Fanny bit her lips.

*' She is a great friend of mine. I
made her acquaintance accidentally. She

lived in the same house that I did. Shall
I tell you her story? It is a very curious
one."

David's voice sounded strange both to
himself and to Fanny ; it was jerky and
strained. He was not at ease with himself
or his audience. Directly he had
begun to speak he had felt a hitherto
unknown embarrassment creep over him;
he suddenly felt that he placed himself
in a position in which he must either tell
Fanny that he loved her or some other
woman, and he was not clear that he did
either. His voice betrayed his confusion ;
and his eyes, instead of looking at the
girl he addressed, wandered restlessly
about the room, and at last fell upon the
carpet, where he kept them fixed. Had
he been a schoolboy confessing a fault, he
could not have looked more awkward or
embarrassed.

Fanny, on the other hand, had never
been calmer or cooler. As David's confusion

increased, so did her coldness.
She was angry and mortified within, but
statuesque without. From the moment
that David began to speak, she knew fora
certainty that he did not love her.

"I do not know any people with
curious ' histories," she replied, in her
steadiest, coldest tones. ** Perhaps you
had better not tell it to me."

* But I want to do so very much,"
persisted David. 'In fact, I ought to

have told you before " But here he

stopped abruptly, for the thought arose
in both their minds that hitherto Fanny
had certainly had no recognised right to
any of David's secrets. His face grew
red, and hers white ; he fixed his eyes
upon the carpet more intensely than
before, but Fanny spoke.

You are under no obligation to tell
me anything, but if you wish to tell me
about any of your friends, of course I
shall be interested."

VOL. III. 40

* Thank you," said David. ''1 will
tell you. This girl, she was a child when
I knew her first."

* When you first went to town was
only a year ago."

** Keally ! It seems like several years.
Well, she was only a child then, so I
suppose she must be little more than one
now, but she seems to have grown into
a woman. She is half an Italian. Her
father was a man of property, and lost it
all ; but he cherished a delusion that he
was the rightful heir to a large property,
and spent his life in the British Museum
turning over old charters and deeds, and
doing sometimes a little work. They
were dreadfully poor, and lived in a garret
at the top of the house."

' How did you come to know them ? "

* I  I met her on the stairs. No ; she
came to my room one evening," faltered
David, with a sudden consciousness of the
unconventionality of Fiametta's proceedings.

He had never viewed her from the
young lady standard of propriety before.

Fanny drew herself up a little stiffly.

 Indeed ? Was she employed as a
servant ? "

' Oh dear, no ; she is a lady  I mean
she is a lady by birth and manner, though
of course she has had very little education.
You would be very sorry for her
if you knew her, Fanny. She is very
lovely  beautiful ! I never saw anybody
like her. She has those wonderful dark
Italian eyes, and a quantity of red gold
hair. She seems to have suddenly grownup
; and it is very dreadful for her to be
so poor. Fancy, sometimes she has not
even had food to eat ; and, I believe, she
has only one dress. I never saw her in
any other  a shabby cotton, like servants
wear."

*' Poor thing ! " said Fanny ; and her
voice was a little more tender, for David's
eyes were on her, and he was speaking

in a quick, nervous way. She almost
fancied there were tears in his eyes. He
went on.

'But the most dreadful thing about
her is, that her mind has been poisoned
by reading some dreadfully wild socialistic
books, and they have quite turned her
brain, for she is full of enthusiasm and
courage. I believe she would gladly die
for her opinions. Only think of that
young girl going into frightfully low
public-houses, and distributing pamphlets
among the men drinking there ! You
can have no conception what such places
are like, thank God ! but only think of
her doing such a thing ! " And David's
eyes grew very bright as he leant over
the side of the sofa he was on, and gazed
at the girl in the window.

' Just fancy," he went on, * your going
even into the Cygnet on such an errand,
and there are only decent labouring men
there. You can have no idea of the

sights and sounds among which that poor
girl has Heed. No wonder she hates the
rich, for she has been told that all the
misery she sees is their fault."

She need not have gone," said Fanny,
with a little flush of anger upon her face.
* Why did she not stay at home ? The
idea of a girl going into a public-house ! "

** But she thought to do the poor
wretched people some good. Think of
her devotion, Fanny ! "

' It is the clergyman's place and not
hers to distribute tracts. It was most
improper; " and Fanny laid one of her
smooth white hands over the other and
looked out at the wintry landscape.

David felt a sudden collapse come over
him. He could not go on with his enthusiastic
description of Fiametta. Metaphorically,
cold water had been thrown
over him. He stared rather helplessly at
the girl in the window.

*sit seems to me," said Fanny, breaking

the silence,  that you have not been
making very desirable acquaintances,
David ; but, of course, I know that men
do know plenty of people that ladies do
not. Have you anything more to tell me
about this girl ? "

' She was very unhappy," said David,
rather vaguely, feeling that he must say
something, but that whatever he could
say was useless  "very unhappy. Her
father was arrested for trying to take a
deed that he found. He was quite mad,
poor old fellow ! and  and he died in
prison."

Fanny opened her eyes a little wider.
Indeed ! " was all she said.

Yes ; and this poor girl, we were
great friends, you know, Fanny."

No, I did not know."

** Yes, we were, very great friends.
She ran away, because she could not bear
the disgrace, I believe she would have
drowned herself, if I had not found her."

'indeed!"

* Yes ; she was in the most dreadful
state. Think what an awful position she
was in, with no home, no money, no
friends ! "

** You forget that you were her friend."

'* Oh yes, of course I was her friend ;
but, then, what could I do for her?
Besides, I don't think she cared much
about me ; in fact, I am sure she cannot,
for  for she has never answered my
letters, and I don't know what has
become of her."

* Possibly she has found another friend,"
said Fanny.

It was the unkindness speech she ever
made in her life ; but David's excited,
earnest manner, and the deep shining of
his eyes, told her far more than his words.
She saw that he cared about this girl
as he never had cared for her ; moreover,
she believed that he knew it, and she
resented the cruelty of his relating to

her the story of his love for another
woman. It was an insult to her and
her love for him, for immediately she
thought that he knew of her passion,
and had taken this method to convince
her of its hopelessness. She was very
angry, very hurt, and the cruel speech
dropped from her lips before she was
aware of the double meaning of it.

David flushed all over. In that
moment he hated the calm, insolent
creature in the window, who could throw
scorn on the friendless girl in her distress.
He had never felt so angry or so strongly
moved in his life before. It was as if a
cloth had fallen from a window in his soul
that had been blocked up all his life, and
he now for the first time saw the fair landscape
that had been hidden. In the
same moment that he hated Fanny, he
felt that he loved Fiametta, that all his
life was bound up in her, that everything
that was noble or beautiful, every aspiration

that was pure and good, had sprung from
her and had been centred in her. Earth
seemed more beautiful, and heaven more
near to him in that moment. After his
first feeling of repulsion for Fanny, he
forgot her presence, forgot her scorn.
His mind flew back to the one woman
in the world for him, and he was only-recalled
from his vision by Fanny's voice.

'* I presume you intend to find out
where she is? "

*' Find her!" said David, dreamily.
 Yes ; I shall never rest until I find
her; " and then they both sat perfectly
silent, he intent on his dream of Fia-meta,
she quivering with suppressed
rage and indignation.

So the momentous question of his
marriage had been settled by no word
of his. In fact he forgot all about it,
and would scarcely have realised, if he
had been told, that he had actually approached
this conversation with the distinct

possibility in his mind of asking
Fanny to marry Mm at some future time
always at some future time. It is not
too much to say that every thought of
Fanny was banished from him, as he sat
with his eyes upon the fire, recalling
Fiametta's image to his mind. He firmly
believed now that he had always loved
her, had loved her at first sight. It
seemed impossible to him that he could
ever have done otherwise. His other
life slipped from him like a dream, and
Fiametta and he lived alone in this world.

Fanny bore his silence and his dream
as long as she could ; but poor Fanny
had a heart, and it was beating wildly,
more wildly than she knew that hearts
could beat. She felt herself outraged and
insulted, but she was wounded sorer than
either, and nothing but her pride kept her
outwardly calm and dignified.

*I think I hear mamma coming," she
said at last, rising slowly;  perhaps it

would be as well, David, to acquaint her
with the history  it is a ' curious '
history  of your protegee. She will feel
interested, no doubt. I am going down
to the village ; can I do anything for
you?"

*' Thank you, no," said David, looking
at her with a dazed expression in his
eyes. * Fanny, you did not mean what
you said just now ? You could not be so
cruel."

' I do not know that I have said anything
cruel," she replied coldly. ''I
have never acted cruelly in my life.
Women leave cruelty to men, as the
more competent to inflict it ; " and Fanny
glided from the room.

Once upstairs in her own room, her
calmness threatened to desert her, a
great swelling rose in her throat, and
unbidden and very bitter tears came into
her eyes ; but she forced them back.

*'I will not cry," she said to herself;

'nobody shall ever know that I cared.
I will not even believe it myself. But it
was cruel, cruel of him to tell me about
her ! " and Fanny's boasted firmness gave
way, and a few very hot tears dropped
from her eyes upon the window-sill, as
she leant her forehead against the cool
panes.

But they were soon over, and in a
short time she was going in her sealskin
jacket and bright bird-hat down the
muddy lane to the village. Nothing buta
certain paleness about her cheeks and
a brightness in her eyes told of her
discomfiture; and when Mr. Lethbury
met her in the lane, as he was coming
to pay his morning call, he thought he
had never seen her look so beautiful.

He turned and went back to the village
with her, and then escorted her home ;
and David heard them laughing and
chatting in the hall, as he lay by the
fire in the drawing-room, and felt glad

that Fanny was happy, for he was well-disposed
towards all mankind in the new
light of his great discovery.

Mrs. Everest was not at all so well
pleased, and when, after lunch, Mr. Lethe
professed an active interest in
poultry, and Fanny offered to take him
to see hers at the Hall, she had great
difficulty in concealing her displeasure.
However, as she could not very well say
that Fanny should not visit her poultry
yard, she could only mar matters as
much as possible by going with them.
This she did to Mr. Lethbury's intense
discomfiture, for she took possession of
him from the very doorstep, and instructed
him in his duties towards the
poor, and overhauled him for indiscriminate
almsgiving in such a thorough
manner that she frightened everything
but his cough oufc of him, and Fanny
never had a duller walk in her life.

Mr. Lethbury not being asked to come

back to the Eectory to dinner, naturally
did not do so, but said * good-bye " to
them in the village, and the two ladies
walked back together, neither of them in
the best of humours.

* Mr. Lethbury really does not look
after those Jenkins as he ought," said
Mrs. Everest, emphatically. ' There is
that poor old man without a word of
Scripture since Monday last, and anybody
can see he has not many years to live.
And he has been sending dinners to that
good-for-nothing Molly Thomas, whose
house and children are as dirty as they
can be, and she more than half a Dissenter
! "

Mr. Lethbury says she is very weak
and poor, and this last baby's death has
pulled her down dreadfully," said Fanny.

a rpiiere is no charity in helping a
slovenly woman ! " snapped Mrs. Everest.
*' Don't tell me about her being pulled
down ! Isn't the fact of having yb

children reason enough why a woman
should bear up against the loss of the
sixth, and a puny, miserable little thing
it was? These young men have no
discrimination whatever ! ' '

' Well, I think he is very kind," said
Fanny, rather to her companion's surprise.
*' I am sure he would never be cruel to
anybody; " and Fanny's eyes filled with
tears as she thought of David, but she
turned away her head to hide them.

' I don't call it kindness to let the soul
hunger and feed the body," said Mrs.
Everest, sternly, 'and that is what that
young man is doing. He has never been
near that pious old Jenkins since Monday ;
and I got it out of him that he never
said a word of rebuke or exhortation to
Molly 1 I have no patience with such
young men, who think they know better
than their elders ! "

 I think he is very nice," said Fanny,
in so unusually decided a tone that she

left her adopted parent standing speechless
in the hall, while she went up the
stairs to her own room.

"David!" said his mother, opening
the drawing-room door suddenly, and
speaking in a voice of such portentous
solemnity and awfulness that he nearly
jumped off the sofa with consternation,
"David!" and she closed the door, "if
you don't speak to Fanny now, you will
never win her."

"I have spoken to her," said David,
looking at his mother in a way that she
could not understand; but he spoke ina
voice that she knew made any opposition
on her part worthless. He had
only used it once or twice in his life to
her. " I spoke to her this morning after
breakfast. We shall never be married."

"You don't  you can't mean to say,"
gasped Mrs. Everest, " that Fanny has
refused you? "

No matter whether Fanny refused

me or I refused lier. It's settled ; that's
enough, isn't it ? "

' No, it's not enough. I don't believe
a word of it!" cried Mrs. Everest, her
wrath overpowering her prudence.  I
don't believe you have said anything of
the kind to her ! She couldn't refuse
you, I am sure of it."

'I don't advise you to ask her," said
David. ' But this I can tell you, and,
what is more, you must believe it  Fanny
and I will never marry ; and if you have
any respect whatever for her feelings, or
for mine, you will never speak to her on
the subject, indeed, if you do do so, I
will never see her again ; " and David
looked and spoke as though he intended
his words to be obeyed. Mrs. Everest
burst into tears.

' I am the most miserable of women ! "
she sobbed. ' You are an ungrateful,
wicked, rebellious son ; you have never
given me a moment's pleasure since you

VOL. III. 41

were born. You have thwarted me in
every wish, and trampled on every desire.
I wash my hands of you. Follow your
evil courses, and break my heart, as I
know you will. I will never forgive you
for this, David; " and the angry woman,
in a tempest of tears and reproaches, left
the room.

She did not come down again that
evening. She was too angry. Fanny
and David ate their dinner together in
constrained silence or with jerky bits of
forced conversation.

David had certainly succeeded in
making everybody about him intensely
miserable, and having by this time
awakened to the fact that however much
he loved Fiametta, she clearly did not
love him, he went to bed no whit happier
than the others.

PiAMETTA lay in the best bedroom of her
cousin's house. She had been carried in
there from the invalid carriage, and for
many weeks she never so much as lifted
lier head from her pillow. The fever in
her brain had been followed by a weakness
so great, that it seemed at times doubtful
if she were alive or dead. Everything
that the tenderest care and best medical
skill could do for her was done. Mr.
Thorold and his gentle, affectionate wife
devoted themselves to her. Had Fia-meta
been one of her own daughters,
Mrs. Thorold could not have lavished
more loving care upon her. She was a

sweet, sunny-haired, motherly creatures
plump and fair, sweet-voiced and tenderhearted,
and she took the forlorn orphan
girl to her heart from the moment she
was carried in at the hospitable door of
Chaylesford House.

But minister as they would to her
body, they could not reach that maze of
wild ideas, hopeless delusions, and fierce
passions, that coiled in tangled confusion
in Fiamefcta's brain. The very dreadfulness
of her visions kept her bound in a
death-like silence. The sound of her own
voice would have been more than she
could have borne at first, for it would
have given a reality to the most fearful of
her visions. All she could think or hope
for was that death would close quietly
over her, and that the terrors that fled
through her brain would be dispelled in
the grave.

Her father's face haunted lier day and
night, always with the same haggard,,

wild expression of baffled desire and helpless
defeat upon it, as she had seen it
last on the prison-bed. It never varied,
never left her ; and beside it, now faint
as if in the distance, now close to her,
was David's face of horror and aversion,
as she had last seen it after the news
of death had reached them. She was
still too weak to put in order or explain
to herself the meaning of the phantoms
that haunted her ; she only suffered
under them intensely, and lay, as it
were, wrapped about in a great horror
of crime. She was not clear what she
had done. She had a confused sense of
having murdered her father, but when,
or in what manner she had done it, had
faded from her entirely.

For weeks she took no notice of those
about her, did not even reply to them
dien they spoke to her, and made no
effort when the fever left her to discover
where she was, or what had happened

to her. To leave her alone and let her
die was her only cr}, and it was with
the greatest difficulty that proper food
and medicine were administered to her.

It was indeed her extreme weakness
that saved her ; she was unable to hold
out long against her nurses. She had
to swallow the food they brought her ;,
and so by degrees, and almost insensibly
to herder, she did gain a little strength.

But though the fever that had turned
her brain into a seething mass of fire had
left her, she was very far from being yet
in her right mind. Perhaps in reality
she had not been so for a long time.
Her unhealthy training, her morbid
brooding spirit that had been turned
inwards to nurse itself upon unhealthy
dreams and impracticable chimeras, must
have had a strong effect upon her. Her
brain fever was but the natural result of
the years that had gone before ; and now
that the fever had left her, she might

have regained all her natural strength
and clearness of mind, had it not been
for the dreadful consciousness of crime
that haunted her, and kept her thoughts
in one continual strain of horror remorse,
and wild despair.

After her ravings had ceased, she never
spoke for days, nay, weeks; and her
taciturnity becoming serious, her cousin
resolved to go and see her himself, to
endeavour to rouse her into some sort
of consciousness of her surroundings.

' I hope you are feeling a little stronger
to-day, my dear," he said, laying his
small cool hand on one of her hot ones.

She drew it away ; it was a little
action, but significant.

'' You are killing me," she said feebly.

 My love, your weakness will soon pass
away," said Mrs. Thorold, keeping down
the sense of injury she felt at seeing
her husband's hand pushed aside; 'you
are getting every day a little stronger."

She had turned her face away from
them and shut her eyes, now she looked
full at Mrs. Thorold.

 It is not that," she said. "I do not
care if my body lives or not, but it is
cruel of you to crush my soul."

Mrs. Thorold looked in wonder at her
husband ; she thought the girl had gone
out of her mind again. He understood
her better, from having seen her before
her illness.

 My dear," he said, 'you are too
weak to know what your words mean.
Your soul and body are both in God's
hands. We will pray that He may
restore them both together;" and he
gently laid his hand upon her head, as
if she were a little child.

She looked up at him with her dark
solemn eyes.

* There is no God ! " she said.

Mrs. Thorold could scarcely repress a
cry of horror. Her husband motioned
her with his hand to remain quiet.

Have you seen yoiir cousins ? " lie
asked, as if she had made no statement
of her faith, or want of faith. They
are just your age, I think."

No; I do not want to see them.
You are killing me, I say ! " And with
a cry she gathered all her feeble strength
together, and threw his hand from her,
sinking hack exhausted as she did so.

A spoon was held to her lips, and
Mrs. Thorold's hand was under her head
in an instant. She shut her lips, and
tried to turn her head away, hut Mrs.
Thorold was firm.

* You must take it, love," she said;
*you must, indeed."

Too weak to resist, the girl took the
medicine, and it revived her. But Mr.
Thorold had stolen away, thinking his
presence might he harmful to her; so
his wife sat by the bedside, watching the
still face and closed lids until such time
as it should please the invalid to speak
or move.

She sat there for a long time quite
quietly, then Fiametta suddenly said 

"It is mean and cruel of you to take
such an advantage of me ! I would
rather be dead than here."

Hush, love 1 Death may come asa
friend or a foe. I do not think you
are fit for him just now."

Yes, I am ; for I wish to die ! "

We hope you wall not die yet, love."

"You are cruel! oh, you are cruel! "
cried the girl, turning her passionate
eyes upon her; "for you have made
me dread to die, for I shall go to my
grave crushed down by all the weight
of your kindness upon me. It is not
real kindness ; it is cruelty ! You have
robbed even my grave of rest for me."

"My poor love!" cried the tender
woman, melted to deepest pity by the
pain in the girl's face and voice, "you
will not think such dreadful things when
you are well. We all love you, dear;

Do not hurt his by saying such dreadful
things."

'I don't want your love! You have
no business to love me because I am
your cousin," said Fiametta, looking
long, nevertheless, at the sweet face
beside her, and with a certain wistfulness
in her own.

' I don't know that wee love you
altogether for that," said Mrs. Thorold,
smiling; 'you see, a third cousin is nota
very near relation. But, my dear, you
were so lonely and unhappy and unfortunate,
we could not help loving you."

Fiametta closed her eyes, and moved
her head restlessly about on her pillow.

'' That is wiry I loved the poor and
suffering," she said, dreamily. '' I cannot
think now."

''No, no, love; go to sleep. Everything
will come right to you in time."

And Fiametta slept.

Little by little, as the winter went on,

Kametta gained in strength bodily, but
she remained as gloomy and taciturn as
before. She had plenty to brood over,
poor child ; and as she grew more conscious
of the life about her, a new and
bitter pain grew within her. Where was
David ?

She would not have met him just then
for all the world ; the memory of his last
look at her tortured her day and night,
for she felt that he regarded her as a
criminal. After thafc sweet close friendship
that they had enjoyed together, it
was bitter to feel that he had cast her
off so thoroughly, that he did not know
or care if she lived or died. Never a
word or sign had come from him. Miss
Hatchard had written to her several
times, and the letters had been read to her
as soon as she was strong enough to bear
to hear them, but she had never said a
word about David. She felt his absolute
desertion of her very keenly. She did

not blame him for it. He was in her
eyes so good that any contact with crime
would be impossible to him; but he
might have asked after her, as he asked
after her father in prison. It was hard
to be tossed aside as something so utterly
worthless that even his pity could not
reach her.

She was too proud to write and ask
Miss Hatchard what had become of him ;
too weak, also, to collect her thoughts
sufficiently to send even a message, had
her pride allowed her to do so. She
only lay and suffered, suffered in that
exquisite way in which highly strung
natures alone are capable of suffering 
a very unenviable capability under some
circumstances.

Those good people about her, Mr. and
Mrs. Thorold, tried to amuse and interest
her in many ways, but they never succeeded
in doing either. They were too
wise to force her, and they patiently

waited until the doctor pronounced that
she might with safety see a new face,
for they trusted that their girls could do
with her what they had failed in doing.
Girls can approach a girl in a way that
no elderly person can.

It was on Cecily, their younger daughter,
that the father and mother relied upon
most to brighten their invalid. Cecily
was just her own age, and a plump, pretty
grey-eyed girl, with a soft voice and a
gentle air, a bright smile, and the subtle
sense of delicacy and refinement that
clung to all the family at Chaylesford.
It was impossible to imagine that anyone
of that household had ever been out
of temper, or had ever done a rude or
unkind action.

So, one sunny morning in December,
when the snow lay like a white coverlet
on the earth outside, and reflected the
sun's rays that danced in at the broad
windows of Fiametta's room, and mingled

"with the ruddy light of the fire upon the
hearth, Cecily came to see her cousin.

She felt rather shy at facing this
mysterious, silent girl alone. She had
been such a puzzle to them all, and she
did not know how to treat her, or what
to say to her. But the sight of the
wasted face and skeleton hands roused
her tender pity at once, and, stooping,
fhe gently touched with her lips the
long thin fingers.

Fiametta opened her eyes suddenly,
and stared long and solemnly at the
intruder. She had drawn her hand away
at the first touch of Cecily's lips, and the
little action had slightly embarrassed the
new-comer.

 I am your cousin," she said, blushing
 ' Cecily. Irene is your other cousin.
She is the elder. Mamma is busy
to-day, so I have come to sit with you."

'' I do not want anybody," said Fiametta,
coldly.

Cecily smiled.

'You are thinking you are giving us
trouble," she said, "but you are not at
all. We are only too glad to do anything
we can for you. Irene and I have
been longing to come and see you before,
but the doctor said you were too weak."

I am not a show," said Fiametta,
an angry flush rising over her face.
Cecily was quite shocked.

' You are our cousin," she said simply,,
as if that quite settled and disposed of
the question  " our only cousin, and we
have been so sorry for you. Some days
when wee thought you were going to die,
Irene and I could riot sleep, we were so
unhappy."

I cannot believe that," replied
Fiametta, looking closely at Cecily's
bright face and pretty plump figure.
'' You have been petted and happy all
your life. You do not know what unhappiness
means."

Cecily was a little hurt by this, speech.
She had been genuinely concerned for her
cousin, and, to say the least of it, the
words were ungracious, but she was too
sweet-tempered to show any offence.

'I have had a very happy life," she
said, '' but that does not prevent my
being sorry for people who have not.
Poor daring ! " and with a sudden rush
of pity she bent over and kissed the wan
face upon the pillows, '' when you are
stronger, you will be happier, too."

'No ; I shall never be happy," Fiametta
replied, but in a softer tone than she had
used before ; and then she turned her
head away and closed her eyes.

'I wish Irene had come instead,"
thought Cecily to herself; *' she would
know so much better what to say." And
not liking to disturb Fiametta again,
Cecily sat beside her bed and waited
until it pleased the invalid to speak.

Fiametta was very restless, and turned
VOL. III. 42

her head about uneasily for some time ;
then she opened her eyes, and looking
straight at her cousin, said 

' I wish you would go away. I cannot
rest with you here. You are full of
happiness, down to the tips of your
fingers, and you worry me."

Cecily crimsoned, partly from the unkindness
of the speech, partly from sorrow
at her own failure, but she only said 

"I am sorry;" and rose to leave the
room.

' Stop ! " said Fiametta, as she got to
the door. *' Are you angry with me ? "

No. You are ill, or you would not
say things to hurt other people."

' Yes, I would. I always do."

Cecily opened wide her eyes and looked
in astonishment at her cousin. She had
never heard of such a course of proceeding
before. It was not the custom of
the household to hurt the feelings of the
meanest creature that breathed. Cecily

would not even have stroked a cat the
wrong way, much less a human creature,
so she made no reply at first.

' You must have been very unhappy,"
she said at last, as the only possible
excuse she could find for such conduct.

A blaze lit up the sick girl's eyes.
She raised herself by a strong effort, and
brought her clenched fist down upon the
bedclothes.

' I am in hell ! " she cried ; and then,
as suddenly as she had raised herself, she
fell back in a fainting fit.

Cecily ran to the bedside, calling the
nm'se from the dressing-room as she
passed, and together they managed to
restore Fiametta to something Hke consciousness
; but she was so weak that she
only lay quite still under their hands for
the rest of the day, and Cecily felt that
she had done more harm than good by
her presence.

But the next day, as Mrs. Thorold was

sitting by Fiametta's bedside, she asked
for her of her own accord.

'* Where is that girl?" she said
suddenly, after a long silence.

' Cecily, do you mean, love ? She has
gone for a walk with her papa, but Irene
is in. Would you like to see her ? "

a don't care."

''1 will call her," said Mrs. Thorold,
thinking the presence of her gentle eldest
daughter might be good for the invalid ;
so she summoned her, and let her enter
alone, supposing that the two girls might
get on better without her.

Irene came in slowly and quietly.
Irene always moved gently. She never
made a noise about anything. She
seemed to many people as peace and rest
personified. To the sick and dying in the
village she was as an angel, to the living
a type of aU the heavenly graces. She
was too good to live, everybody except
her parents had said from her birth, but

she had managed to reach the age of
twenty in spite of adverse prophecies.

She had entered so quietly in her soft
clinging dove-coloured gowan, that she
had been standing beside the bed for some
minutes before Fiametta saw her. She
had fallen into a troubled kind of dream,
and woke with a start in a half-dazed
condition.

' Who are you ? " she asked. She had
been dreaming of her father's death and
her guilty deed, and some half-formed
idea of an angel of justice flitted through
her mind.

'' I am Irene," said the fair visitor,
laying her soft small hand on the girl's
hot forehead.

*' No ; you can never come to me," said
Fiametta, looking up at her with glazed
frightened eyes. She was thinking of
the meaning of her cousin's name, and
was still but half awake.

Irene folded her arms about her neck,

and laid her cheek upon the close-cropped
golden head. She knew at once what
the girl meant.

I am only yom cousin, love," she
said, ' with a beautiful name. We will
learn what it means together, now that
your bitterest troubles are past."

But Fiametta only turned away her
head.

' There is no peace for me," she said.
But she] let her hand lie in that of her
new found cousin's, and Irene knew that
some painful secret was weighing down
the sick girl's mind.

Every day after that she spent a great
portion of her time beside Fiametta's
bedside, thus relieving her mother, and
performing an office for which she was
eminently fitted. Her softness of movement,
the firm gentleness of her fingers,
her aptitude for sitting motionless for
hours, and a certain secret influence she
possessed over the minds of others, all

fitted her to be the perfection of a sick
nurse.

It was not difficult to see that Fiametta
soon grew to find a certain pleasure in
her presence. She always knew when
she came into the room, and a light
would flit across her eyes before she saw
her. She never turned her face away
from her greeting kiss as she had from
Mrs. Thorold's and Cecily's, neither did
she resent Irene's holding her hand, as
she sometimes did. It was a slight
thing, but enough to show that Irene
had a certain sort of attraction for her.

By way of amusing her and rousing
her attention, Irene one day brought hera
photograph of some sculptures.

'* Look at this," she said.  Papa
bought it in Milan. This head"  pointing
to the picture  'is said to be a
portrait of one of your ancestors. Is not
that interesting ? "

But Fiametta only glanced carelessly

at it, and then, turning her face to the
wall, said 

' I have no more in the way of
ancestors than other people. The street
scavenger has as many forefathers as I
have. What have I to be proud of, in
that some of mine have their names
written in the account of blood and theft
that is called history ? Take it away ! "

Not in the least discouraged by this
failure, Irene tried to find another way
in which to amuse her cousin. Anything
seemed better than for her to pass her
days in dreary brooding.

But nothing answered her purpose.
Fiametta's brain was far too weak to
allow her even to follow a conversation
for more than a minute or two at a time.
All the Thorolds could do for her was to
wait and hope.

There is nothing very unusual or novel
in Christmas Day coming in the end of
December, but to Mrs. Fowler this festival
appeared to delay its arrival in a most
unjustifiable manner ; for on the eve of
that day she was to become the mistress
of a house. The house in question was a
very small one, it is true ; but the Fowlers
were not very large, and their income was
decidedly limited, so the house suited
them better than a larger one would. It
was situated in the north of London, and
was one of the many, many new yellow
brick houses that stand in straight rows
where a few years ago green fields had

been. Some of the green fields had
become streets, the rest were brick-fields
that would eventually become streets.
None of the pavements were laid, and
the roads had four inches of rut in
them. There was a smell of new paint,
new bricks, new stucco, new everything ;
and furniture vans unloaded daily somewhere
in the road. All the houses were
of a staring yellow, with very white stone
doorposts, with bunches of flowers, carved
by machinery, on the top. The blinds
were all of the greenest, the steps of the
whitest, the garden rails of the reddest,
that the mind of man can conceive.
Mrs. Fowler was charmed by their cleanliness
and brightness, and, being an
innocent young thing, believed that both
would last, and that No. 60, Tomlinson
Villas was a paradise upon earth.

On Christmas Eve they took in a
couple of cabs their small portion of this
world's goods to this favoured spot, and.

being guileless young people, sat down to
wait on a trunk until several items of
comfort, such as beds and chairs, arrived
from an upholsterer, who had faithfully-promised
their delivery on that particular
morning.

Far on into the day they sat, lunching
contentedly off a bag of buns from the
nearest confectioner's ; and then Frederick,
growing desperate, sallied forth to the
said upholsterer, distant some two miles
and a half, and had the pleasure of
being assured that the van containing
his furniture had left there some hours
ago.

It might have done so, and the driver
might have driven round by Richmond in
going from Tottenham Court Road to the
neighbourhood of Gospel Oak. Mr. and
Mrs. Fowler sat up weary and anxious
hour after hour into the night. Mr.
Fowler had personally and with great
exertion fetched a sack of coals fi'om the

green grocer, that trader's boys being all
' bout, in consekens o' been' Christmas
Have, and everybody wanting' everything
hall at once." He also purchased a lamp,
and a few other necessaries ; but they had
neither furniture nor crockery, and Mrs.
Fowler drank her tea out of a medicine
glass.

To add to their troubles, a young
person who had been engaged by them as
domestic servant, and was fondly behoved
by Mrs. Fowler to be an incarnation of
all the virtues, did not put in her
appearance until eleven o'clock at night ;
and then, finding that the furniture had
not arrived, and there was no hot supper
ready for her, indignantly took her
departure, and stated her intention of
calling on them the next day for a
month's wages, as she had been betook
in, and thereby lost a situation value
twenty pounds a year, exclusive of beer
money and perquisites."

This last revolution of Fortune's wheel
completely upset Mrs. Fowler.

* I don't mind sleeping on the floor,
Frederick," she sobbed, ' and I am only
too happy to cook you' breakfast ; but to
be insulted by that horrid gui, and told
that we had swindled her, that is really
too dreadful?"

*'D-d-don't mind it, my love; don't
think any more about it. B-b-b-but,
darling, I am afraid I must take you back
to Harcourt Street again."

Mrs. Doddss won't take us in,
Frederick. You know she has let our
rooms, and Mr. Everest's ; and Miss
Hatchard is gone, too. Besides, we can't
leave all our things here."

I will try and find a lodging for
you," began Mr. Fowler, when his wife
interrupted him with 

* Now, Frederick, don't talk nonsense,
as if I were going to leave you all alone
here. We must make the best of it, and

lie on our clothes;" and Mrs. Fowler
began to unpack her trunk with great
vigour.

Just as they had put the lamp out, and
were lying down in their clothes upon
such other garments as they possessed, a
van rumbled up the street, and a sullen
knock at the door announced the arrival
of their furniture. It being then nearly
twelve o'clock, and the men naturally
anxious to get to their homes, the
Fowlers' possessions were bundled withall
despatch into the sitting-room and
hall, which, but for a narrow means of
exit, they completely choked ; and as
none of the beds were up, and the
bedding was fastened in an utterly inexplicable
manner to the chairs, the
owners were not much better off for its
arrival that night. Nor were they very
much better off next day, for neither Mr.
or Mrs. Fowler had the remotest idea of
the anatomy of an iron bedstead, and their

joint efforts to x one up were in vain.
Moreover, the heavier pieces of furniture
were quite beyond their united strength
to move. So the chest of drawers
remained in the hall, at the foot of the
stairs, and had to be scrambled round
every time they went up or down; and
the withstand was in the parlour, because
the door was blocked by the chest of
drawers ; and the parlour-table and sideboard
were upside down; and the glass
and china were in an unget-at-able
corner ; and the whole place in the direst
confusion possible.

But how the Fowlers enjoyed themselves
on that Christmas Day ! If they
had been lost in some savage wilds they
could not have felt more absolutely alone
than they did there, and the solitude
brought to them the first feeling of
perfect freedom that they had ever
experienced. They were master and
mistress of their own house and their

own lives, could go where they liked, and
do what they liked ; there was no awful
chief, no bent-upon-improvement aunt,
no ill-tempered Mrs. Doddss, no prying
Sarah Ann,  all was peace and bliss on
that Christmas morning.

To tell of their failures and triumphs
would fill a chapter : Mr. Fowler's
agonies over lighting the fire, and the
obstinacy of the chimney that refused to
receive the smoke destined for it ; Mrs.
Fowler's struggles with a broom and
duster; their united frantic efforts to
place their furniture according to their
desires, and the wonderful achievements
in the way of picture-hanging accomplished
by Mr. Fowler.

Christmas Day that year fell upon a
Saturday, consequently for two days
afterwards there were no shops open, and
no provisions to be had ; and whether it
was the freedom, or the laughter, or the
hard work, is unknown, but by Monday

evening the Fowlers had eaten up nearly
all their stock of provisions, and knew
not where to get any more.

*' There is only half a loaf of bread left,
but there is plenty of tea," said Mrs.
Fowler, after a careful survey of the
Kitchen premises. " And, Frederick, I
do not see what we want with a large
wine cellar, when there is no place to
keep thereat."

*' N-n-nor do I, my love ; but it
s-s-sounds well in the advertisement.
 W-w-wine cellar and bathroom ' sounds
rather spacious."

 Yes. How nice the bathroom will be
when the water is laid on ! I wonder
how long they will be before they bring
the pipes up here. The road is in a
shocking condition ; " and Mrs. Fowler
went to the window.

'jThere is a cab coming down the street,"
she remarked, 'and the man looks as if
he were saying horrible things about the

VOL. III. 43

ruts. I wonder who can be coming herein
a cab. Why, it is actually stopping atour
door ! Oh, Frederick darling ! it is
Mr. Everest ; and, oh dear, we haven't a
room fit for him to come into ! "

' Halloo ! " said David from the cab, as
Mr. Fowler rushed enthusiastically out of
his front door and down the for feet
of garden-path, and tugged violently at a
gate that always shut on the least provocation
and never opened without a large
expenditure of physical force, ' Patagonia
is an over-explored country compared to
this place. I have been in this cab for
three hours, trying to find Tomlinson
Villas." -

And David got out of the cab, pulling
a hamper after him, paid the cabman,
and followed Mr. Fowler into the
house.

* Halloo!" he exclaimed, as he came
into the crowded little hall. " Have you
been playing at earthquakes, or settling a

domestic difference by means of shying
furniture? "

'' W-w-we are not quite s-s-settled yet,"
said Mr. Fowler; ' our things came so
late ; b-b-but, my dear Everest, we are
d-d-delighted to see you. And how did
you find us out ? "

'I went to Mrs. Doddss, and got your
address from her. I have taken the
liberty of bringing Mrs. Fowler a Christmas
hamper."

*' No, really ! " cried Mr. Fowler, beaming
with delight. '' W-w-well, this is the
most extraordinary c-c-c-coincidence.
W-w-why, we were just out of food. I 
I will call my wife. She is washing the
t-t-t-tea-cups, I think. Y-y-you will have
some tea, Everest ? "

*' Thank you," said David; and Mr.
Fowler disappeared, and shortly returned
with his wife.

Their delight over the contents of the
hamper, which, to say the truth, had

been packed by Mrs. Everest for her
son's consumption, served to restore
David's spirits a little. The Fowlers bad
seen that there was something wrong
with him from the moment he came in ;
but they busied themselves with getting
some tea for him, and persuading him to
help them make an inroad into a fine ham
that lay at the bottom of the hamper.
Their happiness and good spirits and
delight at seeing him cheered him a
Httle ; and when they were seated round
the fire, David, in the full enjoyment
of tobacco, opened his heart to them.

"I came up this afternoon," he said,
in answer to their inquiries, ' and I went
straight to Harcourt Street, of course. I
had kept on my lodgings at half rent ;
but I found Mrs. Doddss had been letting
them to somebody else. I suppose if I
had given her notice, she would have
turned him out; but I came up unexpectedly
and caught her."

She told US you were not coming
back," said Mrs. Fowler. ''I suppose
that was to prevent us telling you of the
man she had there."

I suppose so," replied David; 'but
it doesn't much matter. But I was
surprised to hind that Miss Hatchard was
away;" and he looked anxiously at his
hearers.

"Yes; she has gone away on business
for a few days," said Nellie. '' She did
not say where she was going, only that
she had a commission in the country, and
should not be back for some days."

"And  and Fiametta?" asked David.

He seemed scarcely able to get the
words out. Mr. Fowler rubbed his hands
nervously, and Mrs. Fowler's eyes filled
with tears.

She is gone," she said at last.

Gone ! Gone where ? " David asked
huskily.

"I don't know," she said, almost

beginning to cry. ' She went away the
day after you did, very early in the morning
 before we were up. We only knew
of it afterwards, when I went to Miss
Hatchard's to inquire about her ; and she
was very odd and mysterious, and would
not say where she was, only that she had
bettered herself.' "

*sand you have not heard? Has not
Miss Hatchard heard from her since ? "

I don't know. She will not tell me
anything about her, only that she has
bettered ' herself."

*' You don't even know if she is in
London or not ? ' '

' No ; we know nothing about her,"
replied Mrs. Fowler, looking in astonishment
at the change that had crept over
David's face.

He had been white and thin when he
came in, but that was a good deal owing
to his recent illness; but now his face
underwent a curious sharpening of line

and feature, a greyish shade seemed to
pass over it, and he sat perfectly still,
gazing at the hire.

Mrs. Fowler was frightened. She had
never seen anybody look like that before.
She was over-tired and nervous, too, and
it was more than in her present state
of health she could bear ; so she laid her
head on Frederick's shoulder, and very
quietly fainted.

She could have done nothing that
would have roused David so effectively
and quickly. With a lively recollection
of his own sufferings, he stayed the distracted
husband's hand in time to prevent
a pitcher of water descending over the
prostrate wife. Mr. Fowler had deposited
her on the floor, and rushed into the
kitchen for this remedy at once.

'' Don't drown her," interposed David ;
' it feels so uncomfortable afterwards."

"B-b-but she will die! Oh, Nellie,
Nellie ! " shrieked Mr. Fowler, in despair'.

 Drowning won't restore Lier, anyhow.
Have you got any brandy ? No ? Feel in
the pocket of my great coat. Heavens,
man ! a sandwich case doesn't hold
brandy. The other pocket. Now she
will soon be all right."

 I am better now," said Nellie, after a
few minutes, while David held her head
on his arm. ** Oh, Frederick darling,
don't be so unhappy ! "

Frederick  this being his first acquaintance
with a fainting fit  had been
as nearly distracted as a mild man can
be ; but when he heard his wife's voice,
and saw her open her eyes, he was as
instantly transported to the other extreme
of joy, and the scene that followed
between the pair induced David to survey
the heavens from the privacy of the back
kitchen door. He felt more like being-out
of the way there.

'* I  I  I am so sorry you went away,"
said Mr. Fowler, after a quarter of an

hour or so on fetching him back. * B-b-but
NelHe is not very w-w-well, and I was
naturally alarmed; but she is all right
again now'*

'don't mention it," said David; ''I
am fond of astronomy. Mrs. Fowler, I
am glad to see you are better."

'eyes, I am quite well now," replied
Nellie ; and, after a few more trifling
remarks, a silence fell upon them all
again.

David was clearly not at all himself
that night.

"I will never rest," he said at last,
apparently not heeding whether he spoke
to any one or not, while he still gazed at
the fire  "I will never rest until I have
found her."

The Fowlers looked at each other.
They had often speculated in the early
days of their marriage as to the possibility
of David's falling in love with Fiametta,
but they were rather surprised to find

that lie lead clone so ; for Miss Hatcliard
had shown them Fanny's portrait, and
had given them her impressions regarding
it ; hut they said nothing of that now.

'' Miss Hatchard will be hack in a
week's time," said Mrs. Fowler. ' Perhaps
she will tell you more than she has
told us."

David only sighed, sighed heavily. It
lay with Fiametta, not Miss Hatchard, tolet
him know of what had come to her.
If she cared about him, he told himself,
she would need no third person to go between
them. So true in everything else,
she could not be false in that. Her silence
to him meant her indifference. Manlike,
he argued from his estimation of her, and
blundered accordingly. If Fiametta had
not loved him, she would have written
to him ; her pride and her love went
hand in hand, and kept her silent as
the grave towards the man of all the
world whom she would have died to serve.

David stayed with the Fowlers a little
longer, and then took his leave, promising
to come there the next day after his office
hom's, and help them get their furniture
into order. Before he left, however, he
managed to get the refractory iron bedstead
to perform its duties, so that night,
at least, the Fowlers went to bed in the
proper sense of the word.

David was very miserable when he left
the Fowlers', and went towards a small
hotel in the neighbourhood of Harcourt
Street, where he had left his luggage for
the night. His last hope with regard to
Fiametta had fled.

He had learned from Sarah Ann the
manner of her leaving. One evening
Fiametta had been ill, a parson had been
to see her. The next morning a strange
woman had come very early, before Sarah
Ann was up. Miss Hat chard had let her
in ; and before any one else in the house
was stirring, Fiametta had gone. Miss
Hatchard had settled about the rent with

Mrs. Doddss, and that was all that was
known of her. Sarah Ann had an idea
of her own on the subject, she admitted,
but she was coy to part with it, until two
half-crowns had found their way from
David's hand to hers, and then she confided
her suspicions to him.

'' Miss 'At chard was a artist, and as
such was in league with they 'hospital
folks that cut up dead people. She had
seed drawings in the studio with her
own eyes of bones, and such like. Miss
'Richard had likely sent her to a 'hospital "
in a dying state, for which she would
receive some sort of bonus from the
expectant carvers of bodies, who, it was
well known, were in a chronic state of
hunger for subjects on which to experimentalise.


David never regretted the expenditure
of any money as he regretted the base
use to which that five shillings had been
put. With words upon his lips, the likes

of which the injured Sarah Ann remarked
to Mrs. Doddss wild horses shouldn't
draw from her to mention, David left
the house in search of the Fowlers, thereto
receive such cold comfort as they
could give him.

On one point, however, he felt assured
the girl was not dead. If she was
dead, there could have been no reason
why the Fowlers, who had been kind to
her, should not have been told of it.
He questioned them about the strange
parson and woman who had come, but
they knew nothing of the matter, and
no further details could be known until
Miss Hatchard's return. The whole
affair was a mystery to him. He did
not lilies to doubt Miss Hatchard or her
real kindness to the girl ; for, if he
doubted her at all, such a hideous possibility
opened itself before him that he
could not bear to contemplate it for a
moment. Yet, on the other hand, Miss

Hatchard bad not behaved openly in the
matter. The girl had been got rid of
mysteriously  secretly ; her few friends
had been left in ignorance of her movements.
What reason could have induced
Miss Hatchard to act in that way?
Above all, what had kept Fiametta
silent ?

It was a great puzzle, and the more
David thought of it, the less he liked
any of the possible solutions of it. Had
she eluded Miss Hatchard's watchfulness,
and gone out in the early morning and
drowned herself, as he had feared she
would do before? There was a certain
terrible probability about that idea that
made him shun the sight of the black
silent river stealing between the streets.

Or was it possible that she had done
as she had suggested she would do  gone
as a model to artists' studios ? Miss
Hatchard could put her in the way of
doing that. This possibility was nearly

as bad to him as the other. A few
months ago, David would have argued
quite seriously that there was nothing
degrading in a woman's being an artist's
model, and quoted what is generally
known, with a few exceptions, to be the
case, that the people employed in that
profession are well - behaved, decent
members of society. Now, as he thought
of his beautiful, passionate love in that
capacity, he consigned all artists who
should dare to look at her to places
unmentionable, and grew hot and cold
and quivering at the bare thought.

Of her relations claiming her and protecting
her, he never admitted the possibility.
He had grown so utterly to
disbelieve in old Mr. Thorold, that he
doubted if he had any relations, and
thought that the fraudulent heir and the
property together were but products of a
diseased brain. He knew from Fiametta
herself that she had no knowledge of these

relations, nor they of her; so he never
gave a thought to what was the real
solution of the affair, but puzzled his
brain day and night, until Miss Hatchard
came back.

He had come back to his old quarters,
not because Mrs. Doddss made profuse
apologies, and alluded to her lonely condition
as a helpless widow, spun wonderful
yarns about a grasping landlord,
and repeated the solemn promise of the
intruding lodger that he was only going
to stay a single night, with other marvellous
fictions, that did great credit to
her powders of imagination, but because
he could not bear to leave the house
that was alive with memories of his lost
love. Every turn of the shabby, creaking
stairs had some recollection of her about
them. On the landing upstairs he had
seen her last. She had come before him
first at the door of his room. He recalled
her as a vision of mysterious,

VOL. III. 44

entrancing beauty. In reality, lie had
been to bim then a plain, red-barred little
girl, with rude manners and short frocks.

He sat in bis room dreaming of ber;
lie went every evening to the places they
had walked in together, and recalled their
conversations and her looks, dwelling far
more eagerly on these now than he had
done then. He was not astonished that
he remembered these so well, though
they had apparently made such a slight
impression on him at the time. Nothing
connected with his worship of her could
astonish him now. He had become alive
to every inflexion in her voice, every
movement of her figure, every glance of
her eyes. An hour after any one of these
walks he would scarcely have been able
to recall the subject of their conversation,
now he remembered every gesture that
accompanied it. Truly, a flame had
quickened David's spirit indeed.

He rarely went to see the Fowlers.

They lead asked him to come and live
with them, but he could not leave his
old rooms ; and instead of passing his
time in the British Museum, as he had
been wont to do, for the first week he
stayed at home alone with his thoughts.
This did not tend to improve his health,
weakened by his long confinement. He
grew haggard and wan ; the rosy-cheeked,
boyish-faced David had grown into a
white-faced, wistful-eyed man.

Miss Hat chard looked at him with
astonishment as he came up to the
studio an hour after she arrived.

 Why, whatever 'ave you been doing
to herself ? " she asked.

"Nothing. Miss Hatchard, can you
tell me where she is ? "

She's the cat's grandmother," said
Miss Hatchard, taking off her bonnet,
for she had been too busy to remove it
before, and hanging it on a peg behind
the door.

'* Fiametta," said David, eagerly. He-had
no heart even for the mildest species
of chaff or retort ; there was anxiety in
every line of his face and figure.

'It 'ard," said Miss Hatchard to
herself, as she shook out her jacket.
 Well ? " was all she remarked aloud.

** Where is she? Do you know anything
about her ? For God's sake tel
me, Miss Hatchard ! "

"Ah! Fiametta," said the little
woman slowly, while she looked steadfastly
with her small bright eyes at her
visitor. " She ain't your business, nor
mine, is she ? "

"You do know where she is. Why
won't you tell me ? "

"Ah, that's tellin!" said Miss
Hatchard, coolly. "Now, I don't see
what you come a rampaging up here for,
before I 'ave had time so much as to
have a cup of tea, asking after Fiametta,
as if I kept her in a box. What do you
want with Fiametta, if I might ask ? "

' I want to know where she is, what
she is doing. How can I help coming to
you at once, when no one else can even
tell me if she is alive or dead ? "

'Ah," soliloquised Miss Hatchard,
inwardly, as she put the kettle on the
tire, ' 'it 'aid ; but Lor, will it last ?
Well, and what if I do know ? " she
asked aloud.

''I have been nearly three months
without a word of her," said poor David,
growing desperate. ' Miss Hatchard, if
you have any kindness in you, tell me if
she is alive."

' Oh yes, she is alive fast enough ;
she ain't one of the dying sort," said
the artist coolly. '' Perhaps you thought
as she was a wasting' away for you," she
added sharply.

No," said David, humbly, ''1 don't
suppose she ever thinks of me at all.
What is she doing ? where is she ? "

' Oh, don't you be afeard, she is coin'
well enough."

' She is not  she is not a model, is
she?" gasped David, his worst terror
finding words.

Miss Hatchard turned upon him in a
rage.

What do you mean!" she cried 
what do you mean a insulting' a young
lady ! Oh, that's your little game, is it ?
A model ! No gent thinks much of a girl
as turns model. No, she ain't a models
nor never won't be, I'll go bail. She is
above your thoughts and your means 
young man, and you had best forget her."

' But where is she ? what is she doing ?
what is she living on ? "

Miss Hatchard paused a moment.
She saw that David would have an
answer, and she hesitated as to what to
tell him. Her old dislike of him was increased
by his persistency, and in his
question about the model she detected,
as she fancied, the key-note to his
inquiries. He could not mean to marry

her  gentlemen do not usually marry girls
they think may have taken up with the
trade of a professional model at Fiametta's
age. She believed he only desired to find
the girl to gratify a passing fancy. So
she deliberated over her answer for sometime.


* Fiametta is been' took care of," she
said at last, slowly, ' by some ladies 
real ladies  the genuine article ; and they
are kind to her, and she gets along all
right. She don't ask after you, nor you
needn't after her. She ain't coming
back here no more, nor I ain't a going to
tell you where she is, and that's flat ; for
you won't do her no good, and might
only unsettle her mind."

' Unsettle her mind ! " cried David,
a wild hope flashing across him for an
instant. *' Oh, Miss Hatchard, you can't
mean "

I don't mean nothing' at all," interposed
Miss Hatchard, savagely, * except

that it's best for her to forget all her life
here. It can't be very pleasant remembrance
for her, and the sight of yon, orme,"
she added, with a jerk, " might
bring it back to her. Can't you see
that ? "

' I can see what you mean, but I don't
believe that Fiametta can ever wish to
forget part of her life or to ignore it. It
is only weak and ignoble minds that can
do that. It is a mean way of putting out
of sight things that can never be undone,
and that leave their mark on all the
future. I will never believe that Fiametta
wishes to forget. You are deceiving
me, and, I believe, have deceived her.
I will never rest until I find out where
she is ; " and, without even saying
' good night," David turned and left the
room, and Miss Hatchard heard him go
downstairs and out into the street.

She sat drinking her tea in somewhat
disturbed thoughtfulness. David had

been more earnest and determined in the
recent interview than she had believed
was possible to him, and when he said
that he would never rest until he had
found Fiametta, she had a vague misgiving
that he would keep his word.
There had been a time when she had
thought that David's position was so far
:above Fiametta's that he would not
marry her; now it seemed to her that
Fiametta ought to make a much better
marriage than to take a badly paid
government clerk for a husband.

It was solely with Fiametta that her
thoughts and her sympathies lay. She
had no anxiety about David's feelings, in
fact she took a somewhat malicious
pleasure in his sufferings, for she adhered
firmly to her belief that he meant badly
by the girl.

The change in Fiametta's life and
prospects was to her a source of the
purest joy. All the affection of a

naturally warm heart that a hard battling
life amid ignoble things and ever-pressing
poverty had left to her was poured out
upon the once desolate friendless girl.
It was as unselfish a love as could well
be. She had given all and received
nothing from the very beginning ; but
there often dwells in women, for women,
a love almost as deep and strong as that
of a woman for her lover. It is not often
found among married women, but such
devotion is a commoner thing than is
generally believed among those whom
the world is only too ready to laugh at as
loveless old maids, in whom the milk of
human kindness has run dry.

Miss Hatchard's love for Fiametta had
all the romance and fascination for her of
a girl's first love for a young man. All
the grace and beauty that had shone
upon her lonely life had come from this
girl. She would willingly have become
her handmaid and followed her over the

world. That David, even if he were
really in love with her, should be sacrificed
for her good, was just as it should
be. Fiametta was as far above him now
in station as she had been below him in
worldly wealth in her father's lifetime,
and Miss Hatchard was determined to
keep them apart.

David could extract nothing further from
Miss Hatchard about Fiametta, and he
soon saw that it was useless to try and do
so. Search was equally useless, for the
whole world lay before him in which to
prosecute his inquiries ; besides, he had
other things to do, but he cherished a
hope so strong that it soon amounted to
conviction that he should meet her
again some day.

Full of this hope, and deeply impressed
by the devotion she showed towards the
cause of the suffering poverty-stricken
portion of our large towns, David began
to do what he had never done before  to

look around him. It had never occurred
to him to contemplate his fellow-man,
unless they happened to he his friends, or
to interest him personally. He had never
felt the slightest interest in the great
body of outsiders. Now he began to look
at them, to think about them, and not
only to think about them, but to think
with them, a far more difficult and
instructive process.

He did as Fiametta had done before
him, and wandered about the streets and
lanes of lower London. Much of what
he saw there and what he heard would be
unfit to set down in such a book as this,
but some of the details relating to the
employment of women and children,
terrible though they are, can surely not
be amiss, old though the story may be.

In some of the eastern parishes he
found children of seven years old employed
from early morning till late night
in sack making, for which they received

one farthing a sack. One woman, with
a sick husband and a little child, worked
at finishing shirts, for which she received
threepence a dozen ; by the utmost efforts
she could only earn sixpence a day, out of
which she found her own thread. In one
underground kitchen he found seven
people living, and a little dead child lying
in a corner. There also he found match-shoemakers,
whose industry was paid at
the rate of twopence-farthing a gross, the
workers finding their own fire to dry
the boxes by and their own paste and
string.

The ordinary rate of wages for certain
branches of employment was as follows : 

Making shirts, twopence each, and find
the cotton. Six could be done in a day,
by working from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m.

Making paper bags, fourpence-halfpenny
a thousand.

Making button-holes, threepence halfpenny
for three dozen.

But why continue the list ? These are
facts easily enough to be verified or
obtained from any worker among the
poor in London, and few people care
about the details, however much the
main facts may interest them. Suffice
it to say, that David found women,
mothers of families, working fifteen and
sixteen homes a day, and earning between
seven and nine shillings a week.

In a very little while he saw and heard
enough in the district between the
Strand and Lowborn, in Bermondsey, St.
George's-in-the-East, and many other
parts of London, to explain to Mm much
that he had considered wild and fanciful
in Fiametta's ideas. And as he went
about among the people, her image was
ever in his mind. No wonder, he
thought, that she should have in her
ignorance turned against the rich, when
she had the sight of these poor before her
eyes day after day.

It was the women who interested him
most, because of that one woman who so
longed to give her Kfe for others' good.
He began by being full of pity for them,
but that pity soon turned to a righteous
indignation on their behalf. He threw
himself heart and soul into the work of
helping these women who so nobly help
themselves. What must the temptation
to sin be when a woman must work
sixteen hours a day to earn only seven
shillings a week ?

He found a few people engaged in the
work  clergymen, a few ladies  noble
and self-sacrificing in their lives, and
willing to spend their lives in others'
service ; but they one and all shrank from
David's proposal of how to help these
women. He thought over his proposal
long and seriously before he put ifc forward
to any one. While Fiametta was
sitting beside her window in Chaylesford,
David was turning over his scheme in his

mind, and eagerly collecting facts and
details that would bear it out. At last
lie came to the conclusion that it was the
only one that would really meet the
wants of those women, but the difficulty
of application was very great. His
scheme was nothing more or less than to
organise a complete system of trades-unions
among the working women ot
London.

When he had quite convinced himself
that this was the best way in which
to work, he unfolded his plan to his
coadjutors. They all were horrified at
it. Clergymen, Scripture-readers, lady-workers,
sisters of charity, dissenting
ministers, philanthropists  they were all
shocked. It seemed the thin end of a
most objectionable wedge : women would
be organised to revolt against men,
society could never stand if such a thing-was
to be tolerated.

Besides, they all said, it will never
VOL. III. 45

answer. Women cannot combine together
as men can ; women have not the power
of united action that men have.

** That all depends on the leaders,"
David would reply. * Men do not unite
unless they have a good general who
knows how to keep them in order.
Besides, experience shows that they can
unite."

*' But they won't do it," they urged;
' the masters of the shops will be too
strong for them. It will only result in
those who are at present employed being
thrown out of work, and others being
taken in. The women are too timid to
risk it;" and this last objection proved
true.

David set boldly to work. One or two
among the helpers of the poor he managed
to convert by his arguments and his
earnestness, and together they began their
propaganda. But the women were too
timid. They listened, admired sometimes,

deprecated at others ; but the answer was
always the same  the master would discharge
them, and there was a hungry file
of waiting women only too eager to fill
their places. David grew almost sick
with horror as he heard the women talk,
while he watched their long fingers flying
about their sewing. The pressure for
work seemed so dreadful, that he almost
felt like sending women out into the cold
to die when he talked to them of risking
their situations. There was no chance fora
woman who once got crowded out.
Every seamstress's place was watched by
eager famishing eyes of other women. He
felt like a man fighting against an army.

But he went on with his work. He
preached and talked to the women ; he
showed them his plan ; he unfolded the
history of the men's trades-unions to
them. He tried talking to the masters ;
but very little came of that, for he was
always met by the remark, '' We pay the

regular price of labour that is settled by
the law of demand and supply."

* But we mean to regulate that law,"
he would reply, ' as the men have done.
Why should women be worked for starvation
wages when men are not ? "

' You must organise your scheme
before we shall pay any attention to it,"
the masters would reply. And David
would leave them with a heavy doubt
about his heart.

In sober earnest David's scheme did
not work well. He got very few adherents,
and those few were among the least
capable of the ' hands " employed. The
women who had situations were not disposed
to risk them, and nearly all the
women were timid and distrustful of the
plan proposed to them. Women who had
no employment were not likely to join ; for
they would have taken work, if it had
been offered them, at almost any price ;
moreover, if they had joined they would

have been very little, if any, good to the
association.

Bat David was not going to be lightly
discouraged. He believed in his work,
and in the ultimate success of it. Moreover,
having set his hand to do this thing,
he was going to carry it out. That
dogged obstinacy of which his mother
had often complained showed itself here.
He went on with it, much as he had gone
on in earlier days with his study of
languages and liturgies, partly because he
was not going to be beaten by difficulties
that turned up in his path, partly because,
it must be said, that he felt that Fiametta
would approve of what he was doing. How
often he longed for her help cannot be
said. Whenever he failed  and that was
generally  he felt that had she been with
him he might have been successful. She
was precisely the woman for the work he
had in hand. Her beauty, a powerful
influence from one woman to another; her

enthusiasm ; her devotion ; her nameless
subtle influence, that mysteriously attracted
every one who came near her ;  all
would have helped forward his scheme as
nothing else could have done. In his
mind he constantly pictured her in those
squalid houses of dirt and starvation and
misery, telling the wan-eyed skeletons of
famished women of hope and deliverance
from their more grinding toil. He
fancied how those dull eyes would gradually
kindle with some of the fire from
hers ; how the force of her great courage
and devotion would stir their feeble lives ;
and how at last, in a torrent of enthusiasm,
they would draw all the suffering and the
poor and the struggling together, such
an army of misery, and famine, and weakness,
and helplessness, as has never been
seen on the face of the earth before, but
strong with a common purpose and a
common appeal to humanity and right
and justice, not an appeal from man toman,

but of women and children to sons
and husbands and fathers.

It was this hope that kept him so hard
at his post. He never went to the
Museum ; he no longer passed his evenings
in study. From his office he went eastward,
and there, night after night, he
struggled to draw the timid, shrinking
women into his harbour of refuge. Not
that he contented himself with trying that
alone. There were hundreds of ways in
which he could help them, and he did
help them. Sometimes by sparing the
hard worked mother of a family the necessity
of losing some precious hours of work,
by having to procure needful articles for
her trade at some distant place ; sometimes
it might be only to fetch a pennyworth
of lamp oil when the children were
asleep, and the weary work had to be
finished that night. What would Fanny
have thought to see her once possible
husband running down a dirty court in

the East End with an old preserved meat
tin in his hand for a pennyworth of lamp
oil ? It was not a dignified position, but
surely a merciful one.

He did other errands than those as
well. Sometimes he would intercede fora
poor woman with her employer, when by
some mishap she had failed to please him.
Often he would get some sort of honest
employment, badly paid as it was, for
young girls just out of childhood  anything
to keep them from the streets. He
soon became very well known among a
certain class of workers, and there was
many a girl who could date her entrance
into an honest life from the time when
David met her; many a woman who had
had actual starvation warded from her by
his kindly interference on her behalf.

As he went on he became more and
more interested in his work ; but he was
sadly in need of help, for the time that he
could give was necessarily very Limited.

Religious help he did not want, great and
beneficial as it was ; it did not help,
but rather retarded his course of action.
Obedience, submission, faith in a future
that will more than counterbalance the
ills of this life, are what religion teaches
to the poor. A beautiful and pure teaching,
but not the teaching that will rouse
women to straggle for a freer and better
existence on this earth. David left their
souls to the ministers appointed to look
after them, he only concerned himself
about their bodies. He was more zealous
for an open window, than for reading them
a chapter of the Bible ; more desirous
that they should have fairer wages for their
work, than that they should prepare themselves
for the life to come. Life was not
long enough for him to try and save their
bodies and souls, and as there were plenty
of people to look after their souls, he
mainly concerned himself about their
needs in this life.

Interested though he was in his work,
he could scarcely be said to be happy in
it. The sight of hundreds of starving
women toiling day and night for bare
bread in the midst of the most squalid
and loathsome surroundings is not a
beautiful sight, nor one calculated to
charm the senses in any way. It was
enough to send a sympathetic, tenderhearted
man to bed intensely miserable
every night, especially if he had lost the
only woman in the world he had loved, or
was ever likely to love. Her desertion of
him was an abiding mystery and grief to
him, and as the spring days came round,
the days when they had had those long
twilight walks and talks together, the
pain of her loss to him became deeper and
deeper.

And what had become of Fanny and
Mrs. Everest ? After David had come
back to London, and had arranged with
Fanny's remaining guardian about her

affairs, that young lady betook herself to
her own home, Mrs. Everest, at her
especial desire, accompanying her. There
they had lived ever since. The furniture
at the Eectory had been sold, and the
proceeds David had invested for his
mother. Of other personal property the
old rector had left none behind him, except
his books, which he had bequeathed to
his nephew, and David had had them
removed to London.

Mrs. Everest, after her final disappointment
about her son, had concerned herself
very little about him for some time. She
did write to him in January to come down
for Fanny's birthday ; but he said he
could not leave London again so soon,
whereupon Mrs. Everest's last flicker of
hope went out. She felt certain, then,
that Fanny would accept Mr. Lethbury ;
and Fanny did do so, just at the beginning
of Lent.

Fanny was not in love with Mr. Lethe

but she liked bim, and she found
him an amiable and pleasant companion,
a weak-spirited one, it is true; but, then,
if a woman cannot marry the man she
loves, at least let her raarry one she can
manage. Perhaps, too, she wished to
show David that she was not pining for
him. Moreover, life was so very, very
quiet at Broodleigh, that almost any
change was welcome, and being married
would certainly bring about that desirable
end.

To say that Mrs. Everest was disappointed
and angry and indignant, would
be but a faint description of her state of
mind. She had dreaded and abhorred
the idea of this marriage from the first,
for as long as Fanny and David were
both unmarried there was always a
chance, especially as they grew older,
that such old friends would marry. Impolitic
though it was, in a flood of angry
tears she announced her determination of

leaving the Hall, when Fanny told her
of her engagement.

''I do not think I would do that, if
I were yon, mamma," replied Fanny,
quietly ; ' because, you know, people
might say you were disappointed that I
did not marry David."

 And you had much better have done
so," retorted Mrs. Everest, fiercely. She
was too angry to be prudent. * Much
better. David, with all his faults, is
more of a man than "

*you forget that I am engaged to
Mr. Lethbury," interposed Fanny, quietly.
She was not angry with Mrs. Everest,
for she, too, had thought it would have
been much better to marry David ; but
she tried to put such thoughts away from
her now, as it was her duty to do so.
'' Dear mamma, I know, of course, that
you would have liked me for your daughter,
and you have always been as a
mother to me ; but because I marry

some one else, do not let us part in
anger. Mr. Lethbury and I both hope
that we shall still see a great deal of you.
In any case, I do not think you will desert
me just now, when I need you more than
ever."

Mrs. Everest wiped her eyes and tried
to calm herself down a little. What
Fanny had said showed good sense and a
certain kindliness of feeling, and it was
well that she should respond to her
advances. Besides, she was really fond
of the girl, who had been her sole companion
for years. Her anger was against
David after all, not against the girl, who
she knew had loved him.

' You must excuse a mother's feelings,
Fanny," she said, wiping some hot drops
from her eyes. ' It is hard to give you upto
some one else. I had hoped you
would have been my daughter, Fanny,
in reality ; but, of course, I do not wish
to force yours or David's inclinations.



Yoii have chosen otherwise. I hope you
will be very happy, my dear ; " and the
two women kissed each other, and cried
a little together, neither of them talking,
but both thinking of David.

The announcement of Fanny's engagement
was made by Mrs. Everest to her
son. The letter which contained the
news was a bitter and sad one ; for Mrs.
Everest was at this time a sad and bitter
woman; and since Mr. Burney's death,
her religion had taken several strange
and wonderful departures from that narrow
path of evangelical straightness in which
she had walked for so long. She had
become a somewhat fierce temperance
advocate, which meant, of course, a most
intemperate zeal for total abstinence, an
instance of the wonderful misuse of
language that will surely puzzle our

descendants, should any so-called temperance
publications exist for the perusal
of future ages.

It was not to be expected that Mrs.
Everest, having this mighty truth at her
disposal, should tolerate the performance
of any other kind of mission by anybody
else. She heard of David's work in
London, and sent him enormous bundles
of temperance tracts to scatter broadcast
as he went, which, however, promised to
keep him in pipe lights for the rest of his
life instead, and she urged her son at the
same time to abandon his wicked, radical,
irreligious trades-union, and take up with
the suppression of the burning evil of the
day, etc. As David refused to accede to
such a request, she positively inundated
him with pamphlets and leaflets, until
David fell into a habit of never opening
any parcels that came by post, and they
lay in neglected heaps in the corners of
his rooms.

YOL. III. 46

' I understand now," Mrs. Everest
wrote, ' why you did not ask Fanny's
hand in honourable marriage. Your mind
has been warped and vitiated by your
horrible ideas  Socialist ideas, I call them
  about trades-unions, teaching the poor
to rebel against those who are lawfully
set over them, and encouraging atheism
and revolution, and making them think
that they are as good as their masters.
With all these horrible ideas in your
mind, I should not wonder if you had
become a Socialist yourself, and disapproved
of marriage, and everything
that is right and proper. I am sure it
is only what I might expect of you,
seeing your rebellious nature from your
youth up. Not that I ever expected you
to listen to me, but you might remember
your poor dear uncle, and think how
grieved he would be to see you a Revolutionist,
and going about in a red cap, as
I dare say you do, and going to mass

meetings, and all sorts of dreadful things.
I dare say you will be sent to prison at
last ; and then, when it is too late, you
will remember your mother's warnings,
and think of the sweet girl you have lost."

David's reply to this letter was very
short and very concise.

' I am neither a Socialist nor a Revolutionist,"
he said; "nor do I encourage
"the poor to revolt against their masters,
in the ordinary sense of the word, but only
to get fair wages for fair work. I shall
not distribute temperance tracts among
them. A woman who receives twopence
for making a man's shirt, buttonholes
and all, has learnt the lesson you wish
to inculcate more thoroughly than your
books will teach her. In fact, my teaching
leads them to expect that in the
process of time they may have pints of
beer with their dinners, instead of cold
water ; and if you lived on bread and
dripping, as most of them do, you might

find the beer not altogether unacceptable
either."

To Fanny he wrote a long letter of
congratulations and kind wishes, and said
all the pleasant things he could about her
future husband ; and, this done, he settled
down to his work again, perhaps a little
sorer at heart, yet relieved, too, to think
that Fanny had so soon consoled herself.

Arithmetic all day, apparently useless
pleading half the night in foul rooms,
disturbed visions of Fiametta's terror-stricken
face, as when last he saw hers
for the rest of the night, made up the sum
of David's life. It was not cheerful,
could scarcely be said to be very interesting,
but he went on with his work.

In March he went down to Broodleigh
for Fanny's wedding. That ceremony
was attended with great festivities, as
became the marriage of the Lady of the
Manor. Mr. Lethbury, too, was tremendously
brightened up for the occasion, and

was as happy as a consumptive bridegroom
with an irrepressible cough can
ever be said to be.

 He won't last long," whispered Mrs.
Everest to her son. ' How Fanny could
ever like such a hop-pole of a man I
cannot understand ! ' '

* He is a very good fellow," said David,
' and, I am sure, will make her a good
husband."

'' Bah ! " said Mrs. Everest, snappishly.
' Make her a good husband ! There isn't
enough of him to make more than a
shadow of one. A good husband, indeed !
He will let Fanny do whatever she likes ! "

' Then he will be a truly admirable
husband," returned David, laughing.
' Now, my dear mother, the question is
what is to become of you? Shall I
look out for a small house, or take lodgings
for us both in London ? "

This conversation took place at the
Hall the night before the wedding. Fanny

and Mr. Lethbury were walking np and
down the path outside the drawing-room
window. David and his mother were
inside, she sitting in the window, where
she could countenance Fanny's proceedings
by a fiction of being present in the
iiesh, though absent in the spirit. David
was lying on the sofa, with his hands
under his head, in his old lazy attitude.
It was the first time he had lain on a
sofa since he had left Broodleigh.

I am afraid you don't like London,"
David went on, as his mother returned
no answer to his question. 'If so, wee
might find a small house in the suburbs."

''No, I don't like London," said Mrs.
Everest; but she did not seem to bethinking
much of what was said to
her.

'' I am afraid I shall always be obliged
to live there," said David, gently, '' unless
the Irish patriots disestablish the Government,
in return for what we did to the

Irish Chnrcli ; then, if there is enough of
me left to walk about with, I shall have
to look out for another situation."

'fanny has asked me," said Mrs.
Everest, ''to stay on here until after
midsummer."

Very kind indeed of her," said David,
"just what Fanny would do ; but I hardly
imagine you will care to do so."

Why not ? " snapped Mrs. Everest,
turning upon him suddenly. " Do you
suppose Fanny has no more affection forme,
or I for her, than you have ? "

." I was thinking of her," said David,
meekly. " Of course I have no experience
in such things, but there is a popular
superstition that newly married people
like to be left to themselves."

"Newly married fiddlestick ! " said Mrs.
Everest, contemptuously.

There was silence for a few moments,
David perceiving that his mother had
some plan in her head that she had not

yet disclosed to him. Her next question
somewhat surprised him.

David," said Mrs. Everest, in a tone
of voice the solemnity of which seemed
inappropriate to the remark, ' how old do
you consider I am ? "

'Old? Well, I don't knov/, mother.
Fifty ? "

Mrs. Everest flashed upon him with
indignation.

' Fifty ! thank you, David. I dare say
I seem an old woman to you, though I do
not seem so to everybody ; " and Mrs.
Everest drew her slight figure up to its
full height.

' You are uncommonly well preserved,
of course," blundered David, a little disconcerted
and extremely surprised ; for his
mother had never shown any signs of
youthful desires in her dress or manner,
indeed, she had always insisted on her
' experience " having been very deep and
varied on a large number of subjects, and

that does not convey an idea of youthfulness.
He had not made matters any
better by his last remark, however.

' Well preserved!" she exclaimed.
 Well, really, David, I have never before
been insulted by being told I was going
off."

swell, how old are you?" asked
David.

*' Forty-three," said Mrs. Everest, in a
severely judicial manner, as if she merely
granted the information out of consideration
for her son's weakness, not on any
other account. ' Forty-three, when some
people, David, consider a woman to be in
her prime."

* Ah," said David, thinking of ,
and her girlish loveliness  * ah,
I don't agree with them."

'swell, really, David, of all the rude
things "

' I didn't mean to be rude," interposed
David, meekly. Is there any young

lady of forty-three you wish to present tome
as my youthful bride ? "

 Keally, David, you are too provoking,
just when I wanted to speak seriously to
you on a matter most intimately connected

with my But there, you never did

and never will feel the slightest interest
in anything connected with your poor
mother. I have known that for many
years ; " . and Mrs. Everest, from the force
of long habit, took out her handkerchief
and applied it to her eyes, although it was
not needed.

"I did not know there was any particular
interest attached to your being
forty-three," answered David; ' it's very
like being forty-two or forty-four, I should
imagine, unless you come into a large
property at that age, in which case it
would be a very interesting age  remarkably
so. But tell me what the interest
is, mother."

It would serve you right if I did not

do anything of the kind," answered Mrs.
Everest ; ' but as you are now grown np,
and seem determined to take your own
way in the world (Oh, David ! the good
you might have done with those tracts I
sent you ; but you always were rebellious),
I suppose I may as well, especially as
your poor uncle is dead, treat you as a
rational and responsible person  though
when you will become so is a mystery tome

Dadd, you have seen Mr.

Fosbrook ? "

*what, the new rector?" asked David,
growing more and more bewildered as his
mother went on. '' Yes ; what of him ? "

 I should like to know," continued
Mrs. Everest, folding her hands, and looking
somewhat benignly upon her son,
*' what you think of him ? "

' That he is very fat and very stupid,"
said David, 'sand that he has had so
many good things to eat at the college
dinners, that he has not digested them

yet, but they have got into his system, and
made him incapable of seriously regarding
anything except past, present, and future
dinners. Any designing person could
make him do anything he or she liked."

'thank you, David," said Mrs. Everest,
rising with great dignity, and gathering
her dress about her with a stately sweep.
*' Thank you, David. I have now borne,
I think, all that a mother can be called
upon to bear from a son. Every form of
insult has now been heaped upon my
head ; every indignity that ingratitude
and irreligion and wantonness can suggest
has now been bestowed upon me. This,
David, I shall not forget. I have borne
too much already ; for the present I will
seek for comfort and strength where alone
it is to be found  in prayer for the son
who so wilfully insults a widowed mother; "
and in spite of David's protestations and
questions, Mrs. Everest swept from the
room and upstairs into her own chamber.

David, left alone, tried to puzzle out
the conundrum as best he could. He
could only suppose that she was worried
and anxious, or perhaps had been overworked
about Fanny's wedding, and long
experience had taught him that any sort
of pretence would do for Mrs. Everest
to fix a quarrel on ; so the new Rector
of Broodleigh, or rather his description
of him, troubled him very little that
night.

Neither did the Rector's presence the
next day at the wedding breakfast trouble
him very much. The wedding to David
was rather a ghostly ceremony. There
seemed to him something hollow and unreal
about it. As Fanny's oldest friend, he
stood in the office of father to her on this
occasion, and gave her away. It seemed
a literal carrying out of what is often a
mere figurative custom. He had given
Fanny away, for she had been his in heart
for many a year. Her red eyes made him

very iinliappy. Fanny must have been a
good deal upset to have appeared on her
wedding morning with red eyes. In point
of fact, Fanny had over-calculated her
attachment to her new lover, or underrated
her love for her old one. David's
presence had brought back many an old
dream that his absence might have
allowed to die away in obscurity. But
she was a girl born to do her duty, and
she meant to do it. They were the last
tears she shed over her old love ; but
David somehow felt that they were shed
for him, and the knowledge made him
miserable. When he drove v/ith her from
the Hall to the church, and saw the traces
of tears upon her pale face, and noted the
trembling of her hands, he was so overcome
by tenderness for his old playfellow,
and by remorse, that nothing short of
giving up Fiametta kept him from offering
to lay his life at her disposal even then.
But false to Fiametta he could not be. It

was no matter if lie loved him or not.
She was all the goodness of life to him,
and neither lands, nor friendships, nor
pity, nor old recollections could make him
for an instant false to her.

 Dear Fanny," he said,  he is a good
fellow, and you will be very happy." It
seemed a stupid thing to say, but he could
think of nothing else.

Fanny made no reply, only wiped away
her remaining tears, and laid her hand
upon his arm as he helped her out of the
carriage, and they walked up the church
together.

Mrs. Everest, of course, was there, and
such of the neighbouring gentry as had
known Fanny's parents and wished to do
what they could towards making her
wedding-day a pleasant one. The usual
accompaniment of enthusiastic school
children and village sightseers filled the
little church ; and somewhere in a corner
by the altar rails was a bridegroom, looking

as lamentably out of place as bridegrooms
generally do.

The wedding over, and the speeches
and the breakfast over, and the bride, now
quite recovered, and the bridegroom, now
very important, as bridegrooms are when
their moment of victory comes and they
carry their brides away from relations and
friends, having departed to the nearest
station en route for Italy, and the guests
having gone, David stole out for a quiet
pipe and ramble in the garden.

Mrs. Everest seemed to have been
smitten by the same desire (for a ramble,
not for a pipe), for she, too, was walking
about in a secluded part of the garden,
after the last carriage had rolled away,
containing, as David thought, the last
guest ; but here he was mistaken.

He went up to her, by way of showing
her a little attention after his scolding
last night, and began to talk about the
wedding festivities, and praised the

domestic arrangements, which he knew
had been managed by her, with a view to
making his presence agreeable to her.
But to his surprise his advent seemed in
no wise to suit that good lady, indeed
she seemed quite annoyed with him for
being there, and took everything he said
in such very ill part that David began
to fear he had really offended her very
seriously, and was quite at a loss to discover
in what way he could have done so.
Being, however, really anxious about her
future, and wishing to know what she
desired to do, he persisted in endeavouring
to get her into a better temper, but with
such a very small amount of success that
he was driven at last into saying he
thought he would go down to the church,
and see how the ringers were getting on.

His proposal to go away was hailed
with such evident relief by Mrs. Everest
that he was more than ever mystified,
and had he not happened to turn his

VOL. III. 47

head when he got to the other end of the
walk, he might have remained mystified
for the rest of the day.

As he was leaving the flower garden
by one end, a portly figure came into it
from the other end  came into it in a
leisurely manner, as if he had intended to
come there, and was not surprised at
finding either himself or Mrs. Everest
there now. He took that lady's hand,
indeed, as if it belonged to him, and not
only took it, but carried it to his lips ;
and had not Mrs. Everest snatched it
away hastily, seeing that David had
remained rooted to the gravel walk, he
might have put it in his arm.

But David had seen quite enough.
He understood his mother's anger last
night, her objection to his presence in
the garden now. He turned angrily, and
went away with long swinging strides
out of the gardens and out of the park,
away to the little copse at the back of

the Rectory, that seemed to belong to
nobody but the wild birds and flowers.
But as he strode along his anger lessened ;
and as he climbed over the hedge into
the copse, the comicality of the scene
he had just left occurred to him, and he
roared with laughter. The fat, heavy
rector, his simpering tenderness ; the prim
little lady's mingled pleasure at seeing
him, and indignation at there being a
spectator of their meeting;  all amused
him vastly, when he had once began to
see things from this point of view.

 After all, I don't think she could do
better," he said to himself.  She would
hate London life, and leaving here would
be very hard to her. She will be very
happy with him to manage, and Fanny at
the Hall." 

So David greeted his mother with a
ceremonious bow, when he met her at the
Hall door when he came back.

She coloured a Httle and looked defiantly

at him, as if not quite sure whether
he was mocking her or in earnest.

'I withdraw my expressions of last
night," he said gravely; '* they were
spoken in jest. Might I  might I presume
to congratulate ? " and he came
forward and put his arm round her
shoulder and kissed her.

' It is for your sake, David," she said.

David thought it wise not to question
the accuracy of this remark, so he let
it go.

I hope you will be happy," he said.

Mrs. Everest had had some very bitter
things on her tongue when she saw David
come to the door, but she suppressed
them all now. For the first time she
noticed that he was looking pale and
thin, and that the light had gone out of
his eyes that had dwelt there of old.

*you will marry some day, David,"
she said. 'You will be better without
me."

David shook his head, but did not
reply, and nothing more was said on the
subject between them. He went back to
London the next day, and she remained
at the Hall to await Fanny's return, and
to prepare for her own return to the old
home in which she had so long been
mistress.

FiAMETTA, lying on her bed at Chaylesford
during the winter months, was recovering
from brain fever as slowly as a patient in
whom no natural love of life exists can
recover. She had been half starved for
so many years, during which she had
shot up tall and pale, like a plant reared
in a cellar, that she had no native
strength to hold out against the consuming
fever in her brain.

Had not a vague and frightful sense
of being involved in a great crime hung
over her bewildered mind, the food and
care that was lavished upon her might
have wrought better results. She was

too weak and shattered to have any clear
idea of what she had done ; only a nameless
horror wrapped her round, and kept
her in the shadow of a great terror.

She had become much more gentle in
her manner. The old, hard abruptness,
the result of her struggling wretched life,
had fallen off from her, as a husk from
some sweet fruit. This change was partly
owing to her being for the first time in
her life among ladies, and partly because
the old bitter feeling against a hard and
cruel world was now turned in upon herself.
In her own eyes she was the lowest
of all creatures  a woman false to her
principles, a woman sunk to the depths
of shame by the commission of some
formless crime, and by loving a man who
scorned her.

Unhappily for her peace of mind, there
was no doubt about this latter ]point.
Day and night David's face was before
her, and the tones of his voice were in her

ears. Doubtful as she was about everything
else, she never doubted that she
loved him ; and as she loved him, so she
hated herself.

One has need to take into consideration
the state of Fiametta's mind during the
years in which she was growing from
grave childhood into graver womanhood,
to understand the loathing with which
she regarded herself for this last thing.
To her the love of one person meant
robbery from humanity. In the narrowness
and ignorance that came of her
surroundings, she never saw that the
divine saying,  If a man love not his
brother whom he hath seen, how can he
love God whom he hath not seen ? " maybe
applied quite as well to love for individuals
as compared with that for
humanity at large.

In point of fact, had her brain been
stronger she could never have loved her
less fortunate brothers and sisters so well

at any time of her life as she did now.
She had sympathised with them always,
but it was with a fierce indignant
sympathy, that was at times akin to
scorn for their weakness and want of
purpose. Now, in her sufferings, she
could have been loving over the lowest
and most fallen of her sex. The capacity
for great tenderness had always been in
her, bat it had been clouded over by the
harsh, cruel surroundings of her life.
Now, as she lay in her anguish upon her
bed, the natural beauty of her nature little
by little revealed itself to those about her.
She did not say much to them in
words of her gratitude for their goodness
to her; in set words she never thanked
them at all. But her eyes would follow
them when they left her, and all her feeble
powers were exerted to clasp their hands
as they bent over her in the mornings,
after her long and troublous nights were
passed.

It was to Irene that she turned most.
She clung to her as she had never clung
to any one before. There was a deep
and mysterious sympathy between them,
that arose chiefly from Irene's ready
divination that she had a painful secret
hidden in her breast. Irene knew that
something weighed upon her cousin's
mind, though she never tried to guess it ;
and Fiametta knew that she knew, and
even at times tried in her dazed,
bewildered way to tell her what it was.
She was impelled to do this by her
knowledge as she grew stronger of the
love in which she was held by her
relations, and she was conscious that she
was receiving this affection under false
pretences.

This constant struggling to free herself
of the hallucinations that haunted her,
and to arrange her thoughts in due order,
often plunged her into terrible fits of
brooding melancholy, inexplicable to

those about her. For days together she
would lie trying to unravel the mystery
that clung like a veil about her mind.
At such times she seemed incapable of
speech or hearing ; all the bruised powers
of her mind were concentrated in the
struggle for the truth she vainly sought.
Her friends at these times feared that a
settled melancholy would abide with her,
and with good cause they trembled for
her reason.

It was Irene who generally succeeded
in leading her out of this Valley of the
Shadow of Death. In her struggles to
get at the truth, and in her endeavours
to impart some of the partial knowledge
she had to her cousin, the poor girl's
state was piteous indeed ; but Irene's
tenderness, her caresses, her gentle
soothing, would often have their desired
effect.

 I do not know," Fiametta would say,
looking piteously at her.

' Do not try and think, darling ; it will
all come right in time."

''No, no; it can never come right,"
she would reply. And then Irene would
soothe her into a quieter state, or get
her, if possible, to go to sleep.

As she grew able to sit up, Mr. Thorold
often passed part of the afternoon in her
room. His quiet presence always had
a good effect upon her, and she was often
able to listen to his conversation, and
could even sometimes bear a part in it.

One day, in that worst of weathers, a
snowy March, when she was seeming
better than usual, he ventured upon a
subject he had never before mentioned
to her.

''My dear," he said, "if it is not too
painful to you, I wish to speak to you
of your father."

He stopped abruptly, for a sudden
painful change rushed over the girl's
face, a change akin to terror. Her eyes

dilated, her lips parted. If she had seen
a ghost she could not have looked more
aghast.

* My poor child!" he said tenderly,
' I had no idea I should give you such
pain. I will say no more."

*eyes; go on!" she gasped. * Have
you found it out ? "

* That is what I wish to speak to you
about, my dear. Do not look so terrified,
so distressed. Believe me, you are tome
as one of my own daughters ; ' ' and
he laid his hand upon her head.

Her lips moved, but she was unable to
speak. He could not account for her
agitation, and, in truth, it a little shocked
him. Was it possible that this pathetic-eyed
girl cared so much for money that
she desired to rob his children of theirs ?

'* I have been investigating," he said
gravely, * all your father's papers, copies,
and notes, and diligently hunting up all
the records and deeds I could find relating

to our joint ancestors. I think
you will believe me, Fiametta, when I
assure you on my honour as a gentleman
and a clergyman that there is nothing,
absolutely nothing, to be found that in
any way supports your father's claim to
the property of Chaylesford. If I had
ever had any doubts  which I never had
of my perfect and entire right to the
property I hold, they would be set at rest
now. I do not say this on my own
authority alone, but I have employed the
best experts in such matters that could
be found, and they are unanimous in declaring
that your poor father had not a
shadow of a claim ; that even if old John
Thorold, on whom he seems to have
founded his claim, did marry and leave
children, and he was descended from
them, that would only affect the title,
not the property; for that has comedown
direct from Robert, John's eldest
brother, through his son, his son's

daughter, who kept her maiden name, to
her son, who was my grandfather, yom
father being descended from a younger
son of my great grandfather's. I can find
no proof of the double descent that he
claimed. If you would like to see the
pedigree and the papers relating to it, I
will bring them to you.

'* And now for yourself, my dear, I
have placed six thousand pounds in your
name in good securities, to be yours
absolutely to do as you like with. As
regards your home, you will, I trust,
feel that you are here on exactly the
same footing as Irene and Cecily, that
this is your home as it is theirs. My
dear, what is the matter ? ' ' for Fiametta
started up with a passionate gesture,
and then sank back again among her
pillows.

He was greatly alarmed, and was about
to cal some one, but she stayed him with
her hand.

'Is that all? oh, is that all? is that
all ? " she cried, fixing her wild, dilated
eyes upon his face, and grasping his wrist
with all the strength she had.

*A11!" he repeated, in astonishment.
It was a strange question to ask him,
after what he had said to her. *eyes,
that is all, I think," he added slowly; for
he was mystified and somewhat hurt.

Her only answer was to fling her arms
up above her head.

' Oh, I don't know what it is ! I don't
know what it is ! " she cried, and then
her arms dropped, and her face fell
forward. He caught her in his arms,
and called loudly for Irene, who came
running in.

 She has fainted, I think," he said.

When Irene came downstairs, he asked
her if she could explain Fiametta's wild
cry and her looks of terror.

 She is often so," Irene replied ;
*' there is something weighing heavily

upon her mind, and she is not strong
enough to know what it is."

'poor child! " he sighed, thinking of
his first interview with her. '' I fear I
ought not to have mentioned her father.
We must use all care and tenderness
with her."

For some days after this interview, one
of Fiametta's brooding fits of melancholy
rested heavily upon her. The struggle
within her to grasp the truth of what she
had done was painful to witness. For
days she groped about in the dim
caverns of her mind, and the groping was
a pain and terror to her. Now and then
she would speak to Irene, not very often,
and when she did it was difficult to
understand what she meant, for her
words were but the continuation of the
bewilderment in her brain ; but once or
twice she alluded to Miss Hatchard.

Would you like to see her, dear ? "
asked Irene.

VOL. III. 48

She could tell me," she replied at
last, after a long and painful effort to put
her ideas into words. It was the more
difficult for her to do, as in these last few
days a new idea had come to her. Miss
Hatchard could tell her what had become
of David. Was he dead, or had he
forsaken her ? If he had forsaken her,
it must mean that she was guilty.

She looked so wild and haggard that
Irene feared to question her any further,
but told her parents what had occurred.
So in a very few days Miss Hatchard
made her appearance at Chaylesford,
accompanied by a vast collection of
canvasses, and a very small carpet-bag
containing her limited wardrobe.

The excitement of Miss Hatchard's
expected arrival had given Fiametta such
an amount of fictitious strength, that she
had insisted on getting up and being
dressed. Some of her old wilfulness had
come back to her, and those about her

were only too gLad to see that she could
rose herself at all to think of opposing
her. So they dressed her in a pretty
blue satin dressing-gown, and seated her
in her easy chair by the window.

She had expressed a wish to see Miss
Hatchard at once, and the artist was
brought straight up into her bedroom.

' Oh, my dear! my dear! " cried the
little woman, flinging her arms round the
girl's neck and kissing her.  Oh, if this
ain't the best day of my life ! " and Miss
Hatchard stepped back and looked
admiringly at the satin gown and the
luxurious bedroom, and then kissed and
embraced the girl again, as if to make
sure that it really was Fiametta who was
in the midst of so much splendour.

As for Fiametta herself, a frightened
look came into her eyes. A sudden
nervous apprehension swept over her that
she was to hear the worst news that Miss
Hatchard could tell her. In her agony

she tried to put off the evil moment.
Her eagerness to see the artist changed
to a trembling desire to put off any
communication with her.

'ego and rest," she said nervously;
'' go away, please go away."

Miss Hatchard looked a little hurt ; but
the sudden whiteness that had come over
Fiametta alarmed Irene, and she hastily
took the artist's hand and led her from
the room.

'' She is so weak'' she explained, *' that
the least agitation upsets her. She has
been looking forward to your coming so
much, that seeing you has over-excited
her."

'' Lor, poor dear! " said Miss Hatchard,
sympathisingly. '' You must tell me what
to do, miss, and I will do it. I don't
want to give no trouble."

"It is a great pleasure to us to have
you here," said Mrs. Thorold; and Irene
went back to Fiametta.

She passed a very troubled night.
The dread of what she now felt sure she
should hear of David brought back a
slight return of the fever. She was notable
to distinguish between what had
really happened to her and what her
fancies brought before her. Wherever
she turned, some new form of pain presented
itself to her.

When morning came she was more
wan and haggard than she had been for
weeks, but she was talkative and excited
as they had never seen her before.

' Where is Miss Hatchard ? Bring me
Miss Hatchard ! ' ' were her first words to
Irene in the morning, when she took the
place of one of the night nurses after
breakfast.

' She will come to you at once, dear,
if you wish it," said Irene ;  but you
had better wait and dress first."

'eyes; I will get up at once. I am
better now. I cannot wait any longer."

She talked in a restless, unconnected
way all the time she was being dressed.
Irene had never seen her so before, and
was alarmed and anxious to put off the
interview that seemed to excite her so
much ; but Fiametta would not hear of it.

*' No ; I must see her at once," she said.
'* I cannot wait any longer, and death
will end all things;" and she looked
wildly at her cousin.

She was not in a condition to be
argued with, so Irene kissed her and left
her.

' Lor, my dear," said Miss Hatchard,
after she had come in and kissed her, and
taken a seat beside her, '' well, you have
fallen on your feet, to be sure ! Why, I
never see no such house before ! Fit fora
queen ! " and Miss Hatchard drew her
finger in an admiring manner over the
velvet-covered arm of the chair.

'' Yes, it is very beautiful  too beautiful,"
said Fiametta, impatiently. She

wanted to talk of Harcourt Street, not
Chaylesford. '* Are the Fowlers still in
their old rooms ? " Now that it came to
the point, her heart failed her in asking
about David.

* Yes ; they have gone into a house of
their own. Mrs. Fowler, she have asked
often after you;" and Miss Hatchard
moved her foot to and fro over the soft
carpet, as if to revel in its thickness.

'' And Mr. Everest ? " asked Fiametta,
making a great effort to speak calmly,
and looking straight at her friend.

Miss Hatchard turned away her head
and coughed.

'' Oh, he ain't no good to nobody ! He
left our house  well, just at the beginning
of October. He don't see me, nor I
him ; nor he don't leave no message for
nobody;" and Miss Hatchard glanced
sideways at the girl.

She did not blush nor quiver, nor turn
away her head, nor give any of the

customary signs of confusion whereby
girls testify that their lovers are being
spoken of. She was white, very white,
but so she had been all day, and her
great dark eyes were gazing out through
the windows over the frost-bound landscape.
Miss Hatchard could not see
what their expression was, had she done
so their heart-breaking despair might
have frightened her. But the girl's
quietness deceived the woman who
watched her, and she sat there and
chatted on, taking her silence as belonging
to her weakness, and never dreaming
of the thoughts that lay hidden in Fia-meta's
breast.

All day long Fiametta sat there in her
easy-chair, looking out at the snow fields
before her. She resisted all efforts to
induce her to lie down and rest. She
seemed to have no particular desire to
say or do anything, only all day long her
eyes were fixed on the winding black

line that appeared between the white
fields.

She did not see Miss Hatchard again
after lunch. They were afraid of tiring
her, so Irene sat silent beside her all the
afternoon, and wondered what had so
suddenly quenched the light of expectation
in the wild, beautiful eyes. They
were blank and dumb now, as the black
river between the snows.

As to what passed in Fiametta's mind
that day, it would be hard to say. All
the fiery agony through which she had
travelled left her, but in its stead
remained a hopeless despair and a bitter
and intense pain. For the first time she
felt really certain that she had committed
a crime. A dreadful horror of murder
had hung over her, but she had never
been able actually to identify herself with
the commission of it. The terror of it
had bound her fast, but the absolute
conviction of it had never clearly come

to her. It came now, as she heard that
David had so far loathed her that he would
not even ask if she were alive or dead.
She believed now that she had murdered
her father  believed it as she had only
vaguely surmised it before ; and as that
knowledge came to her, so came to her
also the knowledge of how much she
loved this man who scorned her  loved
him as she had never believed it was
possible to love. All the whole strength
of her nature, her past life, her very
despair and remorse, was bound up in
this love of David. Second only to it
in magnitude was the scorn with which
she regarded herself for loving him. All
her bitterest contempt was heaped upon
herself. She never blamed him once ; she
even gloried in his utter desertion of her,
for it only raised him still higher in her
eyes that he could so hate this thing of
weakness and sin that she called herself.
As the still afternoon hours wore by,

and the March sunset dyed the whiteness
of the land to the colour of blood, and the
crimson flashed over her thin hands lying
in her lap, the colour brought back to her
mind the stain of the red velvet that she
had fancied was upon them after her visit
to the prison. She almost fancied it was
on them still ; and instinctively she put
her hand to her bosom, as if to feel for
the little dagger that had lain there.

Then for the first time she wondered
what had become of it, how it was that
no inquiry had been made as to its
introduction into the prison. Was it
possible that David, when he had gone
away with the policeman that morning
on which the news came, had found it
and hidden it for her sake ? She could
think of no other way that would account
for no inquiries having been made of her ;
and to feel that her life was in the hands
of the man she loved, that, in fact, it was
owing to his merciful toleration that she

existed, added a sting of bitterness so
intense to tier already great pain that it
drove her to the very verge of distraction.

Perhaps the very strength of her
passion and pain kept back her old
bewilderment of brain from her. Had it
come, it would have been in mercy.

If only she had that little velvet-sheathed
dagger, how easy it weald be !
A little scratch would do it ; one little
gash above her heart, and she would beat
rest for ever. She longed for it with a
bitter intensity that could not be put into
words, as she sat looking oat at the
shades of night stealing over the landscape.
It was so easy, so simple  a
scratch, and all her troubles would be
over. There was nothing beyond the
tomb for Fiametta. She had no belief
in any future ; death to her was the end
of all things, and that end was peace.
She watched the last ray of sunlight die
out of the sky  it flickered a little, and

then went out ; and the silent river stole
on, black as ink between the snowy
fields.

She felt strangely calm and quiet  the
very extremity of her distress kept her
still; and there was a sudden feeling of
vigour through her limbs, that came of
the force of her passions, and felt to her
like a new life running through her veins.

Irene," she said in a low voice 
* Irene, I should like to be alone for a
little while."

' You are sure you will not want
anything, darling ? I will put this bell
on the table beside you. Shall I call
nurse to sit in the dressing-room ? "

' No, thank yoa. Kiss me once before
you go, Irene."

Irene, wondering at the request,
embraced her tenderly. There was
something in the girl's constrained still
air that half-awed, half-frightened her
cousin.

 I don't think I ought to leave you,"
she said ; ' you are so weak."

* No ; I am quite strong," answered
Fiametta, with something of her old
stubborn air. *'I want a little rest.
Please go." And Irene went.

The moment she was gone downstairs,
Fiametta rose, and, wrapping a white
cashmere shawl about her, went swiftly
to the door. Here she paused a moment
and listened. There was nobody on the
staircase or in the hall. Like a ghost
she passed down the wide stairs and out
through the conservatory at the end of
the hall, without making a sound. She
did not know her way about the house,
but unfortunately she had taken the
easiest way to get out without attracting
attention. A little door that opened
easily led from the conservatory out into
the garden. The windows of the lower
rooms were all shuttered and curtained
by this time. Within a few feet of her.

as she stood in the snowy garden, Mr. and
Mrs. Thorold, and their daughter and
guest, were seated in the warm, bright
drawing-room, whither Irene had gone to
tell of Fiametta's strange request.

Fiametta stood outside in the gathering
darkness. There was no wind, everything
was still and silent around her.
Beyond the flower garden in which she
stood was a slope of lawn and the fields
she has seen from her window, and there,
lying like a rift between the clouds, was
the black and silent river.

She had been a little bewildered as she
came out into the keen, cold air, but the
sight of the river revived her. She
pushed back the little tendrils of hair
that fell over her brow with both hands
with her old impatient gesture, and then,
wrapping her shawl about her shoulders,
started off in a straight line down the
frozen lawn for the river.

She was very wavering and unsteady

in her movements. Her weakness was
very great, and nothing but the passion
in her kept her from sinking over andover
again in the damp, soft snow, and
remaining there. A sudden rush of
wild despair came over her as she
made her first stumble in the snow. A
terror rose up in her that she should not
even be able to accomplish this last
object of her life. The sense of David's
scorn stung her on to frenzy. She would
take the life he held in such contempt
that he would not even suffer the law to
take its course upon her. She would not
keep what he esteemed so worthless. So,
blinded with her rage and love and
remorse, the poor thing stumbled on,
getting every moment nearer and nearer
to the place for her destruction. She
reached it at last, panting, toiling, wet
through with the snow into which she
had fallen, her shawl lost, her loose
dressing-gown sodden and limp, her head

D

burning, her eyes flaming, her moafch
parched, and her poor brain in a whirl of
terrible imaginings.

To herself she seemed a lost and
forsaken creature, a pollution to the earth
she inhabited, a disgrace to the man she
loved, the murderer of the man who gave
her life. To her distorted vision the very-snow
seemed of the hue of blood, and she
shrieked aloud as the pale moon came out
from behind a cloud and let her see her
trembling hands.

* They are red!" she cried; 'red as
that red velvet ; not even the river will
wash them clean. Oh ! what shall I do ?
what shall I do, if the river will not take
the stain away?" and flinging up her
arms, she gathered all her strength together
for one mad rush into the icy
water.

Have some hot water, then," said a
voice behind her ; and a strong arm
caught her round the waist.

VOL. III. 49

She knew the voice, though the speaker
had not recognised her agonised cry.
With the strength of despair she dashed
his arm away from her, only to feel herself
held tightly by both shoulders.

Tiametta ! " he cried, in a voice
almost as wild as hers, and, in his sudden
surprise and terror, loosening his hold.

She threw up her arms and flung herself
forward; but he caught her just intime,
and held her so firmly to his breast
that her struggles to free herself were of
no avail. She turned her wild face up to
his in an agony of supplication.

'Let me go; I murdered him!" she
said.

His only answer was a great sob, a
rush of tears, and to press down kisses
upon her face, her hair, even her sodden
garments. He was nearly as beside himself
as the girl, at finding her in this
condition. He did not know if it were
madness or trouble that had driven her

down among the snows to drown herself.
He saw how white and wasted she washer
cropped hah', her insufficient apparel,
the strange, wild light in her eyes. Love
for her absorbed every other feeling in
him ; he could not even speak, the state
she was in was so piteous.

She had shivered all over as he caught
her to his breast; all her mad strength
suddenly forsook her; she would have
sunk down in the snows had he not
held her so tightly ; but with the fierce
delight of his kisses a sudden clearness lit
up her mind. She remembered, as if by
a flash of revelation, all that had taken
place in the prison that day  all that had
happened stood out clearly before her.

Didl doit?" she cried.

**No, no, my darling; no, a thousand
times no. He died, dear, of starvation.
It was not that ; I have it here ; " and he
touched the front of his coat.

She turned her face up to him with a

solemn light in her great eyes, while a
beautiful smile and a look of infinite peace
came over her wan face. She did not
speak, only looked up once at him, and
then sank her head down upon his breast.

As the girl's fainting head fell upon his
shoulder, David lifted her in his arms
and looked hastily around to see if any
house was near at hand-the lights of
Chaylesford House among the trees caught
his glance at once, and, wrapping her
floating draperies about her, David bore
her in his arms towards them.

As he approached the house a door
opened, and a man came running out
into the night air  a clergyman; he
had no hat on, and his face betokened
the greatest anxiety and distress. The
moment he caught sight of David, he
came towards him.

'where did you find her?" he cried.
The poor child! Bring her in quickly.
Monica "  this to a fair-haired lady in
evening dress, who came out upon the
steps at the sound of his voice  "thank
God, we have found her ! "

"Come in, come in," she answered;
bring her in to the fire. Poor darling !
how could she have got out ? "

Scarcely noticing who spoke to him,
or what was said, but all intent upon
getting the half-frozen girl into some
place of warmth and light, David bearing
her came into the large bright hall.

A fire ! " he gasped ; "let me take her
to a fire."

Into her own room will be best, and
wee can put her to bed at once," said Mrs.
Thorold, leading the way. Her husband
offered to help to carry Fiametta, but
David, only clasping her the tighter,
staggered up the stairs under his burden.
He had come so hastily through the

snow that he was out of breath and well
nigh exhausted.

"Lay her on the sofa close to the fire,"
said Mrs. Thorold, in her soft, pitying
voice. " Poor darling ! she must have
these wet things off first."

' Let me help you to restore her," said
David, hoarsely, as he saw his charge
taken possession of by Mrs. Thorold and
an old nurse, who had been in the room
when they entered. He could not bear
to give her up even to this sweet woman,
who seemed to have such a tender regard
for her.

She looked up in his face.

Where did you find her ? " she asked ;
then, without waiting for an answer, she
took his hand and led him from the room.
Outside the door they found Mr. Thorold.

"Will you go down together?" she
said. " I will let you know as soon as
she recovers."

There was nothing to be done but to

obey her, for her manner admitted of no
contradiction ; moreover, even in his
anxiety, a dawning conviction came over
David that Fiametta's bedroom was not
the place for him to stay in, so he followed
Mr. Thorold downstairs, and, while doing
so rapidly, made up his mind as to how
he could best hide the dreadful story of
that night from all men.

There was a sound of singing from one
of the rooms on the left-hand side of the
hall ; but David stopped Mr. Thorold ashe
was going towards it.

* Let me speak to you alone ; " he said,
and Mr. Thorold turned aside and went
into his study, on the other side of the
hall.

He closed the door after him, and
looked inquiringly at David.

You have rendered us a great service,"
he said, " though I am at a loss to
account for the occasion for it. Miss
Thorold is my cousin, and has been in

very ill health for a long time, and how
she left this house is a mystery to us all."

'Your cousin!" said David, a light
beginning to break in upon him.

My cousin. My name is Thorold ;
I am the vicar of this parish. Where did
you find the poor child ? "

David, who had been sitting, rose, and
walked to the fire, and looked thoughtfully
down into its depths. He was in
somewhat of a dilemma. If he said that
he knew Fiametta, it was more than
probable that her relations would suspect
her of having stolen out to meet him.
He would not speak of her attempted
suicide  that, at least, should never pass
his lips to any living soul ; no one should
know from him that she had that stain
upon her.

"I am a stranger in this neighbourhood,"
he said, speaking very slowly,
*rand in coming across the fields from
Penshurst, I saw a lady in a dressing-gown,

standing in the snow. She seemed
to me to be under the influence of some
delusion or in delirium." Here he
stopped, undecided what to say next.

'' The poor child ! " sighed Mr. Thorold,
she has had a very severe attack of brain
fever ; but we had hoped that her mind,
though still weak, was out of the region
of delirium. This evening she expressed
a wish to be left alone, and it was granted
her ; and she must, in her bewildered
state, have taken advantage of it, and
wandered out. Poor child ! poor child !
It was a great mercy that you found her.
She might have come to some terrible
end. We had only just missed her, my
wife having gone upstairs to see her."

* Then does anybody else know of her
disappearance ? " asked David.

'No one, except my wife's old nurse,
whom you saw in the room, and she is
trustworthy."

*' It had better be kept a secret," said

David, moodily, again looking into the
red depths of the fire.

'' I quite agree with you," said Mr.
Thorold. 'If you will excuse me for a
moment, I will mention this to my wife
and the nurse, and it need not go any
further."

While he was gone, David sat staring
at the fire. Now that the excitement
was over, he felt sick and cold with
horror. The dreadful tones of her voice,
as she was about to throw herself in the
river, rang in his ears. The feeling that
had he been a moment later the black
waters would have closed over her for ever
made him turn faint with pain. When
Mr. Thorold came back, he found him
leaning his head against the mantelpiece,
his face almost as white as the marble on
which it rested.

In a few minutes some brandy was held
to his lips. He drank it, and sat up, and
began to collect his thoughts.

 I reproach myself very much for not
having offered you some before," said Mr.
Thorold; but, I confess, I was thinking
only of my cousin. I see you are damp
with the snow. May I offer you some
dry clothes ? Pray come into my dressing-room."


* Thank you, no ; the fire will do quite
as well," answered David; and he drew
closer to it.

At that moment the drawing-room
door opened, and some ladies' voices were
heard in the hall. David started, and
then listened intently ; for one of the
voices belonged to Miss Hatchard. Knowing
that she was in the house, decided
him in his course of action.

' This has been an unpleasant affair,"
he said to Mr. Thorold, and speaking in
as cool a voice and manner as he possibly
could. * Probably Miss Thorold will not
wish to have it talked about. No one
shall ever hear a word of it from me.

Perhaps it would be well even to conceal
my presence from other people in the
house. To-morrow, if you will allow me,
I will call here on you and inquire how
she is."

** I am extremely obliged to you for
your kindness and delicacy," said Mr.
Thorold. ' Whom have I the pleasure
of thanking for his great service to us ? "

* My name is David Everest, and I ama
Civil Servant. May I ask you to keep
this as secret as I shall the events of this
evening? My name is of very little
consequence to anybody."

Mr. Thorold bowed.

** It will always be remembered by meas
belonging to one who has done me a
great service," he said, in his old-fashioned
way; and he took David's hand, as the
latter rose to depart.

before going," said David,  might I
ask if there is any improvement in Miss
Thorold' s state?"

Mr. Thorold went upstairs to inquire,
and returned with the news that she had
recovered from her faint, but was very
weak and agitated ; and David had to be
satisfied with this. He resisted the
offer of a bed, which was pressed upon
him by Mr. Thorold, and went out into
the clear star-light night.

Had not Mr. Thorold himself seen him
into the road leading to Penshurst, he
would never have reached his inn that
night, for he was too much excited to
know or care very much where he was
going. The wild joy of finding her was
coupled with intense pain at the state in
which her mind was. Her silence with
regard to him was all explained now, and
one great load at least was lifted off his
heart. She had not forsaken him so much
as she had been afraid of him. Poor,
tortured child ! what she must have
suffered with this load of guilt upon her !

He could not get any sleep at all that

night, aud early in the morning he was
over at Chaylesford again. He was
shown into Mr. Thorold's study, and
heard from him that Fiametta had had a
very bad night, but was better this
morning, and apparently quite sensible,
though still very weak, so weak that not
even a strong light could be allowed in
her room.

'rand," added Mr. Thorold, gravely,
'' the doctor has admitted to me that he
has strong doubts of her strength to get
over the shock to her system produced
by the cold last night."

Mr. Thorold's surprise at seeing David's
face as he uttered these words was expressed
by his putting his hand on the
other's shoulders.

'you know Miss Thorold?" he said,
seeing at once how matters stood.

I love her with all my heart and
soul," said David, looking the elder man
in the eyes; then he broke down, and

hid his face on his arms resting on the
back of his chair.

Mr. Thorold paused.

You knew her in London ? " he asked.

Then, encouraged by his voice and
manner, David told him the whole
story of his love, omitting only the
incident of the poisoned dagger and all
concerned in it. Mr. Thorold listened
with deep attention, and remained some
moments thinking earnestly before he
answered.

'' You will agree with me, that Miss
Thorold, not having communicated with
you since she has been here, nor, to the
best of my belief, alluded to you in anyway,
it will be taking an advantage of
her in her present weak state, if I should,
as you request, allow you to see her."

David was silent. He could not tell
her cousin of the dark shadow that had
hung over the poor girl's mind, and that
had led her to believe that she had forfeited

his friendship; but it was hard to be
kept away from her by the shadow of a
shadow.

Yes," he said at last, 'rit would betaking
an advantage of her."

'* Quite so. But, on the other hand,
you shall be kept informed of the state
of her health. I pledge myself to do
that;" and with this David was obliged
to be content.

He went back to London the next day,
and in a week's time Miss Hatchard
followed him. The accounts of Fiametta
sent by Mr. Thorold had been on the
whole hopeful ; but David could not resist
going up into Miss Hatchard's studio
directly he came in from his work to get,
if possible, the latest details.

Miss Hatchard was busy about her
painting, and David took a seat and
gravely contemplated her work, which
was a design of fat cupids among arabesques.
He knew that the less hurry
VOL. III. 50

he appeared to be in, the more chance
he had of getting the truth from the
artist.

"Pretty thing," he observed contemplatively.
" Foundling hospital on bath
night. Infants hung up to dry. Touching
scene ! "

Get out ! " said Miss Hatchard. " Ita
design for window curtains."

"For a descendant of King Herod's, I
presume. Well, how did you leave
Fiametta?" he inquired, flinging his leg
negligently over the arm of the chair.

Miss Hatchard stopped, brush in hand,
and stared at him.

Ah ! " she retorted, after a pause,
"you think you can get it out of me
where she is, but you can't."

"I hear she has not been well," he
went on, in a lazy voice, leaning his head
back, as if the effort of speaking exhausted
him. " Let me see, it was yesterday, I
think, that the doctor pronounced her

out of danger. She has had a relapse of
some sort lately. They are a nice sort
of people, those Thorolds ; don't you
think so ? "

Miss Hatchard dropped her brush, and
stared at him, her mouth and eyes wide
open with astonishment. David picked
lip and handed her the brush.

' Don't let me interrupt your work,"
he said sweetly ; ' that interesting
founding wants a nose."

Miss Hatchard darted a look of indignation
at him.

*the Thorolds, indeed! a lot you
know about the Thorolds ! "

'' I generally hear from the Eev. James
of that name once a day, not oftener, asa
rule."

' I don't believe a word you are
saying," retorted Miss Hatchard, putting
a fierce dab, intended to represent an
eye, into the middle of one of her cherubs'
cheeks, * not a word on it."

David pulled a letter out of his pocket
and showed her the address and signature.

** The game is up, Miss Hatchard. I
am afraid you will have an awful bone
to pick with her, for keeping me away
from her so long. It looks Hke having
a design of your owen upon me, and one
woman never forgives another woman
for that. I am very sorry to disoblige
a lady, but I really can't."

* Oh Lor!" cried the artist, flinging
her palette and brushes on the table, and
dropping on a chair  ' Oh Lor ! I believe
you do know all about her, after all."

 Yes, I do," he said gravely, taking
a seat beside her. ' Why do you object
to my doing so. Miss Hatchard ? "

Miss Hatchard's only reply at first was
to wring her hands wildly, and then to
burst into a flood of tears.

 You have been very cruel to us ! " he
said.

'' Oh Lor ! oh Lor ! " sobbed the little

woman. I did it with the best of
intentions. 'Twas all for her sake. I
didn't think you was good enough for
her. I thought you was like  oh, dear,
dear  like your par was. There, I
couldn't abide to see you so much as
look at her, a thinking of him and my
poor dear ! " And Miss Hatchard sobbed
wildly.

David got up and began to walk about
the room.

* Don't tell me anything about my
father, please," he said at last, stopping
before her. '' He is dead. Let his
memory be in peace, if not sacred. You
never knew how much depended on my
seeing Fiametta, and that shall be your
excuse, for I believe you meant well by
her."

 I did, I did. I own to it I never
thought of you; it was all for her. Oh
Lor, Mr. Everest ! I 'haven't 'armed herby
it, 'ave I ? She hasn't been miserable

in that there beautifully place all
along of me, has she ? " and Miss
Hatchard seized his hand and looked
imploringly into his face.

' I hope not," he said gently; 'but
you must go on as you began now, Miss
Hatchard, and must not saj a word about
me in your letters."

She looked at him in a puzzled manner.

'' Then you ain't engaged to be
married ? " she asked.

David dropped her hand and turned
away from her.

'' I will never forgive you if you as
much as mention my name to her," he
said, preparing to leave the room,
*' Everything is in her own hands now."
And then he left.

And low came David to be wandering
about the fields outside Chaylesford on
that cold night in March? Little Mrs.
Fowler, lying on her bed with a tiny
infant beside her that had made its
appearance some considerable time before
it was expected, was the real cause of
his going there.

Nellie had been ill, very iU indeed, so
ill that at first all Mr. Fowler's care for
his daughter was subdued by his intense
anxiety for his wife. As she recovered,
he was made to pay the penalty for his
inattention, by a very strict course of
baby worship. Nellie was perfectly convinced

that the weakly little creature was
the loveliest, most precocious baby in the
world. She was so happy over it, that
if Frederick had been inclined to jealousy
he would have had a very trying time
after the advent of the wonderful infant.

Miss Hatchard went to see Nellie
before going to Chaylesford. She looked
so wan and ill that she alarmed that
kind-hearted soul, and by way of cheering
her a little she told her where she was
going. She did not mention Fiametta's
name, but talked of some commissions
that a gentleman had given her in the
autumn ; and then when Nellie asked
where Fiametta was, she changed colour
and answered evasively.

Nellie could scarcely control her excitement
during the remainder of her
visitor's stay. She felt certain from Miss
Hatch ard's manner that she was going
to see Fiametta, and she instantly resolved
to let David know it at once.

Miss Hatchard was to start that afternoon,
and Nellie worried herself nearly
into a fever with plans to get word to
David that night.

She had no one whom she could send ;
for the nurse would not leave her, and the
little maid of all work was too stupid to
send on a message so far away. Her
husband would not he home until late,
as he had some business to attend to
after Museum hours ; for now that he had
a wife and family, Mr. Fowler was obliged
to supplement his income by doing any
extra work that he could get.

A letter seemed to be the quickest way
of letting David know, and, propped up
.by her pillows, Nellie wrote to him.

 Dear Mr. Everest,

 Miss Hatchard has been here
this morning, and she tells me she is
going to a place in Kent, near Penshurst
station, but she would not give me the

exact name of the place itself. She says
she is going to paint portraits, and that
the gentleman gave her the order last
autumn, which was when that strange
clergyman came to see Fiametta. I feel
sure from her manner that she is going to
see her now. I can't tell you how I feel
it, but I do feel quite certain of it.

"I can't write any more. Baby is so
well, and getting quite big and strong.
I mean her to go downstairs to-morrow
She sends her love to her future godfather.


 Yours very sincerely,

 Nellie Fowler."

David received this letter the next
morning when he came down to breakfast,
Sarah Ann having forgotten to
bring it up the night before. His state
of mind on receiving it can easily be
imagined. His untasted breakfast was
left upon the table, and he was off to

Gospel Oak to collect further information
without delay. But Nellie had nothing
more to tell him. Miss Hatchard had
been discreet enough to suit her purpose.
All he could do was to follow up the clue
given by Nellie, and trust to coming
upon some traces of the girl he sought.

So he had gone down to Penshurst
that morning, and had spent the day in
wandering about the neighbourhood and
making such guarded inquiries as he
could. But Chaylesford was some miles
fi'om Penshurst station, and but for his
chance encounter with Fiametta when
he was wandering hopelessly about in
sheer inability to sit still, he might have
remained for weeks there without hearing
of her.

NelHe, lying on her bed, thought of
him a good deal. She was very tenderhearted
at all times, but since the birth
of the wonderful baby she had become
even more so. She cried softly to herself

many times as she pictured him in his
distress seeking for the least trace of the
girl he loved, and perhaps failing in his
search. A few days later, when the grim
March snows had melted a little and
feeble spring weather had begun, she had
an unexpected visitor.

Miss Markham had never forgiven
Nellie for the step she had taken in
marrying Mr. Fowler,  at least she declared
she never had, being aided and
abetted in her firmness by Miss Philippina
Jiggers. In her heart of hearts  which
remote spot was seldom reached, for it
was so thickly overlaid with fads and
fancies  Miss Markham longed to forgive
Nellie. Miss Jiggers and Mr. Tom
Marlow, however, would not allow her
to do so, and with them the weak, vain
woman was as clay in the hands of the
potter.

But when the spring came, and Mr.
Tom Marlow went to Switzerland to

climb mountains before the snow had
melted to show what an all-round genius
he was, and Miss Jiggers, with a party
of select female spirits, of the higher and
emancipated order, donned the  divided"
skirt, and set off on a tramp through
the northern counties of England, Miss
Markham was left pretty much to herself.
Tom did not want to take her to Switzerland,
and she was not strong enough to
carry a knapsack and walk fifteen miles
a day, so she went to Brighton, and
subscribed to a lending library, and there
being nobody there to see her, read
novels, and went to sleep in the afternoons.


But she read the newspapers, too,
especially the ladies' column, so of course
in due time she saw the announcement
of the birth of Nellie's baby, and the news
promptly sent her into a state of the
wildest excitement and alarm.

'' The idea of Helen's having a baby ! "

she cried, as she laid the paper down.
"Why, she is only a baby herself, poor
dear thing ! and how she will know what
to do with it, is more than I can tell.
She will give it horrible things to eat,
I am sure  macaroons, perhaps ; she
was always fond of them." Miss Markham
had lately attended some lectures
on food, and was great on the subject
accordingly. snow, I have no doubt in
the world she will never think of giving
it lentils ; and what an interesting thing
a child brought up entirely on lentils
would be  all brain and muscle ! Dear,
dear, and I am sure Helen will never
think of it''

And Miss Markham gazed out of the
window sorrowfully, and contemplated the
immense loss to science Nellie's carelessness
would bring about.

 Then there is its education," pursued
Miss Markham, reflectively. * Now, how
can Helen superintend that properly?

"She knows nothing, absolutely nothing,
of any system. She will let it learn just
what it likes, perhaps not learn at all.
It is absolutely imperative that somebody
should look after that poor child,
or she will be sacrificed by her mother's
foolishness and disobedience ; and I daresay
it is a pretty child, too. Helen
was a lovely baby! I really think, I
really do think, and I believe PhiHppina
will agree with me, that it is my
imperative duty to rescue that poor infant
from its mother's foolishness. Dear me,
fancy Helen with a baby, and a girl, too !
Dear little thing 1 I wonder if they
would let it be called after me ? " And
in a tremendous bustle and fuss Miss
Markham settled to go up to town the
next day and see Nellie.

Nellie's astonishment on seeing her
aunt enter her little bedroom may be
imagined, and it was not decreased by
that good lady's darting forward, talking

violently all the time, and taking the baby
out of her arms.

'' M}' dear Helen, so glad to see you
and the precious child, and two weeks
old already ; and I do trust, oh Helen !
I do trust you have not been giving it
macaroons, or letting it have sweets.
You were always so fond of them, you
know. And, my dear child, this long
robe. You should have seen  only you
never would go to lectures  the pattern
I saw" at the ' Scientific Clothing ' lecture
the other day  a sort of full trousers
drawn in heloiv the feet ; prevents draughts
and weight, you understand. Now, my
dear, tell me at once, have you tried
lentils ? But I am sure you have not."

' Lentils ! Oh, aunt, why she is only
two weeks old ! "

'I knew it," said Miss Markham, in a
resigned tone ; '' I knew it. You have
no soul for science, Helen  never had."

'' No ; I know that," said Nellie, taking

the child again, and kissing Miss Markham's
cheek !  But, dear aunt, I am so
very glad to see you ! Frederick will be
so delighted ! "

*' Well, I must acknowledge," said
Miss Markham,  that I did not come to
see Mr. Fowler so much as the baby.
It's the most delightful thing its being
a girl. Give it to me. again, Helen. It
must learn to like its great aunt."

 I am so glad you have come ! " said
Helen, gratefully. ' Oh, dear aunt, I
have missed you so. Your forgiveness
was the only thing we wanted to make
us quite happy."

swell," said Miss Markham, looking
round the small room,  I shouldn't think
a little more money would do any harm.

And Lucilla You must let her be

called Lucilla, Helen ! "

' We had settled to cal her after you
already ! " cried Nellie, delighted beyond
measure at her aunt's interest in the

VOL. III. 51

cold. 'And isn't she lovely, aunt?
Just look at her eyes  there, she is
opening them ; and do you see the clever
little way in which she doubles up her
lists. I think it is so wonderful, and
only a fortnight old ! ' '

'well, do you know" cried Miss
Markham, after an earnest contemplation
of the small mottled face on her lap
''do you know, Helen, I really consider
she is remarkably like me ! "

An exclamation of indignant denial
was rising to the mother's lips, for Miss
Markham was emphatically not beautiful,
but she repressed it, thereby showing a
most commendable example to all young
mothers.

She has eyes of the colour of yours,"
she said; and she kissed the child, as if
to make up to it for the slight given to
its personal appearance.

"Yes; deep blue," said Miss Markham,
in a satisfied tone. "I would not hurt

your feelings for the world, Helen, dear,
but your poor mother, though a very
pretty woman, was never considered to
possess quite such an intellectual style of
features as mine. I am so glad the dear
child takes after me ; and, as I was about
to say, Helen, Lucilla must be brought
up with every possible advantage. I
don't consider these small rooms are
sufficiently airy. You must move into a
larger house, my dear."

'' Oh, but, aunt, Frederick's income
is "

 I know, my dear," interposed her
aunt, frederick's income no doubfc
would bear improving, and, Helen, it
must be improved, for the sake of this
precious infant. I shall take a house for
you myself somewhere in a good healthy
place, and I will have all the drains
pulled up and overhauled first. I heard
a lecture about drains the other day that
positively made my flesh creep. I won't

have any money spared over the dear
child. Thank goodness, I have plenty for
ns all; and, my dear, I shall make her
my heir. Now don't say a word, and
really, Helen, if you begin to cry you will
wake her. Really, I never saw anything
so pretty as she looks now ! "

' Oh, dear aunt, you are good ! " cried
Nellie, embracing her warmly. 'But
oh, dear aunt, you won't wish her to goto
quite so many lectures as I did, will
you''

Miss Markham looked round the room.
There was no one there but themselves,
but she spoke nevertheless in a lower
voice.

' To tell you the truth, my dear," she
said, ' since I have been in Brighton I
have been feeling wonderfully better than
I did in London, and I have no doubt in
the world that that has something to do
with not going into so many crowded
rooms. The very last lecture I heard

was on the dreadful effects of breathing
too much carbonic acid gas, and the
place was full of it at the very time, as
the lecturer stated. Now, we can't have
this precious child exposed to poisonous
gases. If they give lectures in the open
air, she may go to them; but she must
not go into crowded rooms. What
between gases and drains and infectious
diseases, I declare I am almost afraid for
her to live in London. Perhaps Mr.
Fowler would not mind the country, if we
can find a convenient place for him.
But the first thing to be considered,
Helen, is this precious child. Really,
Helen, your having a girl instead of a
boy is the only clever thing you ever did
in your life."

Nellie being of opinion that the wonderful
baby could not be improved upon,
and being highly delighted at her aunt's
visit and munificent intentions towards
the child, they passed a very happy

afternoon. When Frederick came back
they considerably astonished him by both
trying to tell him at once the conclusions
at which they had arrived concerning the
fiitm-e of his daughter. Miss Markham
snubbed him a little at first, of course,
Mr. Fowler's appearance and manners
always seeming to invite that course of
treatment; but she rapidly thawed, and
they became most excellent friends on her
discovering that Mr. Fowler's joy at the
sex of the infant was even greater than
his wife's, and everything promised to go
very well indeed for the Fowlers.

"I only wish," said Mr. Fowler, as he
went to bed that night, 'that we knew
how Da\dd has got on."

Foe some days it was very doubtful
whether the Hfe that David had rescued
from among the snows woukl remain
upon this earth, but when consciousness
returned hope returned also, for from the
moment that Fiametta regained her
senses she began little by little to mend
in health. Her attitude now as an
invalid was altogether changed. Formerly
she was indifferent whether she lived or
died ; now she was the most docile and
persevering patient, obeying her nurse's
instructions in every detail. The love of
life seemed so strong within her, that it
seemed impossible she could die now.

She was so determined to get well, that
in point of fact she did get wonderfully
better in a very short space of time.

The change in lier was so sudden and
so complete, that neither Mr. nor Mrs.
Thorold could have the least doubt by
whose influence it had been brought
about. Neither of the girls knew of
David's appearance on the scene, for,
rather to the surprise of her cousin,
Fiametta never mentioned him.

Day by day as she grew stronger, so
also she grew more beautiful. Her great
eyes, that had been as sullen caverns
under her straight brows, where filled with
light ; the lines of her beautiful mouth
relaxed ; her thin cheeks rounded to
their perfect delicate outline ; her figure
became fuller and more graceful. She was
so lovely that Irene and Cecily, pretty
girls though they were, looked commonplace
beside her; and with all their
generous hearts they loved and admired

her beauty and her sweet, imperious
ways. Her voice had lost its hardness,
and was full and soft, as became the
voice from such a full, round throat.
She would always be somewhat quick and
exacting  it was in her nature to be so ;
but she was never exacting for herself,
only for others.

As soon as she was able to be moved,
her cousins took her to Dover, that she
might be strengthened by the fresh sea
breezes. She had never seen the sea
before, and it was a new era in her
existence when she first watched the
waves upon the shore.

If only they could have it in
London!" she sighed to Irene, as she
felt the salt breezes on her cheek.

London ! She was always thinking of
London, Irene discovered ; for now, as
she grew well enough to talk and read,
she was for ever alluding to it. Every
luxury and comfort that surrounded her

served but to point out to lier with
greater and greater distinctness the
wretchedness and poverty of the courts
and lanes of the great city that she was
so familiar with.

'' I must go back to London," she said
to Mr. Thorold one day. 'ras soon as I
am strong and well, I must go back and
help those who never know what happiness
is. I will take the money you give
me in your goodness and spend it for
them."

The hard and cruel part of her Socialism
had fallen away from her, only the good
remained. She no longer reviled the
rich, but she, if possible, loved the poor
still more.

'' You will end in becoming a Christian,"
he said to her with a smile, thinking
that her going to London might very
easily be managed if she choose ; but he
wished to let her be the first to speak of
David. 'you will be obliged to be one,

because the most perfect Teacher of all
that you hold most dear was Jesus
Christ."

'I thought before I came to you,"
she said, ' that Christianity made people
selfish and exclusive."

 The greatest sceptical writer in the
world," he said gravely, '' declares that
Christ was the first to discover that all
men are brothers."

She smiled thoughtfully, and looked
out of the open window, beside which she
was lying, upon the stretch of blue sea
towards the distant French cliffs. The
wind stirred her red golden curls, and a
little faint blush came into her cheeks as
she said 

' Did Mr. Everest tell you where he
had found me when he brought me in ? "

Mr. Thorold started; he had not
expected her to ask him that question.

*' Out in the fields in the snow," he
replied.

' Nothing else ? "

'' Nothing else."

She paused a moment, and a deeper
glow came over her face.

'I was going to drown myself," she
said, in a low voice. " I thought I had
murdered my father."

' My dear child."

' Yes; I thought I had killed him. I
meant to do it," she added, lifting her
eyes to his for an instant, and then
lowering them again ; ' but he, Mr.
Everest, saved me from it. I owe my
life to him, and, better than my life, my
father's life."

There was a long pause. Mr. Thorold
put his hand on hers.

'' My poor child," he said.

She raised his hand to her lips. There
were tears in her eyes as she looked at
him.

* You were not in your right mind," he
said, in answer to the look in her eyes.

 It is like your goodness to find that
excuse for me," she answered. ' I do
not know ; it is only lately, quite lately,
that I have been able to really recollect
about it. When Mr. Everest told me
that I was innocent, I had a flash of
recollection about it ; but it went away,
and only a sense of a great weight having
been lifted off me remained. But since I
have been here by the sea, I can remember
it all. I do not say it in excuse for myself,
but, I believe, for years I did not
really know what I was doing. I lived ina
dream of my own. But part of my
dream I must carry out. You will not
think it ungrateful of me, but I must go
back to my own people."

He did not quite understand her.

** You: own people ? " he repeated.

*' To the poor and ignorant and suffering,"
she replied. '' I, myself, have
much to learn ; but I know I can helps
them a little."

He wondered that she did not speak to
him again of David. He felt sure that she
loved him; but perhaps it was on this
account that she said nothing.

' Would you not like to see Mr.
Everest?" he said. ''He told me you
had been great friends."

A swift crimson dyed her face and
neck.

'why does he not come again? " she
said, looking down.

He is waiting for you to send for
him."

She made no answer ; but that night
she sent a letter containing only these
words, with the date and address :

' I am at Dover ; if you wish to renew
our old friendship, come."

She had been waiting every day for
him, and this hope of meeting him had
helped forward her recovery. Until this
conversation with Mr. Thorold, she had
never dreamt that his coming depended

on her. She was so sure of their love for
each other that she never doubted him,
though the waiting was at times a sore
trial to her. She had no conception of
the sickness of hope deferred that it was
to him. With the ardour of her passionate
nature, she had, in the instant in which
he clasped her to his breast among the
snowy fields, divined and accepted his
love. She needed no renewal of that first
declaration, and in her perfect faith in
him she never dreamt that he was not ascertain
of her love for him.

In truth, these tlii'ee months of waiting
had been terribly hard to David ; and the
better she grew, the harder her silence had
been to him. If she was well enough to
go to Dover, she was weil enough to send
for him. Was he mistaken, and did that
passionate look into his eyes on that
evening only mean that she was relieved
from the dread of crime that had pressed
her down ? Had her mind been incapable

of understanding that lie loved her ? She
had given him no sign of love save that
one look, but she had received his kisses.
Poor David was alternately on the pinnacle
of hope and in the depths of despair, but
he worked among the poor all the same,
perhaps harder than before.

Some little success seemed crowning
his labours. He had not formed a trades-union,
and was never likely to do so ; but
he had helped many and many a poor
woman towards a better life in this world,
and probably in the next. It need not
be said with what joy Fiametta's letter
filled him ; the afternoon express to Dover
was not half fast enough for him on that
June day when he received it.

He got out at the Harbour station. It
was nearly seven o'clock, and the evening
sun was shining full and warm upon the
castle cliffs, and lighting up the bare
brown downs with a yellow glow. The
blue smoke of the town made a girdle of

vapour about the base of the purple heights
on the western side.

The tide was full in the harbour, and
it lay as calm and quiet as a bit of sky.
Scarcely a line of white told where, further
on, the sea stirred the pebbles upon the
beach. The brown sails of the fishing-boats
and the white wings of the yachts lay
motionless. Far away on the other side
of the sea he saw the sunny land of
France, pink and dove-coloured as the
light shone upon its cliffs.

David had never been in Dover before.
Every step of the way was new to him ;
but by one of those curious freaks of mind
that occur after a long strain or great
excitement, he felt as if he was familiar
with every detail of the place, and that in
some former period of existence he had
paced these wharves and piers, and lived
through the welcome that he was hastening
to meet.

There was no difficulty about finding
VOL. III. 52

the house ; it was one of those green-shattered,
balconied residences that stand
facing the sea towards the middle of the
parade. Through many of the open
windows as he passed along he saw
people seated at dinner; a few loiterers
were outside, but not many. The sight
of so many dinner-tables made him turn
aside and throw himself upon the pebbles
of the beach. He would not risk the
chance of being told by the servant that
Piametta was at dinner ; he would wait
for an hour before going there.

So he sat on the beach and smoked,
and looked at the deepening blue of the
sea and the fading French cliffs, noted
how a little breeze rose up and made the
boats dip and dance and slowly sail away,
saw the purple shadows steal over the
town from the western heights and
gradually climb up the castle sides. In
great happiness, as in great pain, the mind
seeks relief by dwelling on little details

unconnected with its passion. David saw
more of nature in the sea and sky and
cliffs in that hour of silent anticipation
than he had ever noticed in his life
before.

More people came out on to the parade ;
lights began to spring up along it. The
castle turned to orange and blood colour.
Then in the gloaming he crossed the
clattering pebbles, and went straight to
Eiametta's door. A sound of music came
from the open balcony windows. He
caught a glimpse of light dresses, and
heard the laughter of girls' voices. They
startled him a little ; he had been so
absorbed in thought of Fiametta, that he
had forgotten the existence of other
people. The music, the sighing of the
sea, the strange place, and that stranger
sensation of being impelled to do what he
had once done before ages ago,  all confused
him. He stood in the drawing-room
doorway as the servant announced

him, his blue eyes wide and dazed, hi
face ashy with excitement. He trembled,
big, strong man as he was, for a sudden
fear had swept over him that Fiametta
was not there.

The room was a large, low one, a shaded
lamp stood near the piano, the windows
were open towards the sea. There were
several ladies present. He had a confused
idea of white curtains floating in the wind,,
and light dresses and bright ribbons, also
of a sudden hush that fell upon everything
when he appeared.

Then he saw her rising up from her
couch beside the window, the purple sea
behind her flashing golden head, her long,,
soft, white dress clinging about her, her
face pale, her eyes like stars in the night,
her white hands held out towards him, as-she
rose and came to him.

He did not take her hands, did not
advance a step to meet her. She looked
to him as an angel out of heaven, in her

wonderful beauty and grace. He suddenly-felt
himself to be poor and mean and
despicable, fit only to kiss the hem of her
garment.

So with flushed face and dazed eyes he
looked at her coming towards him ; and
she, finding he did not advance to meet
her, made a little pause as if in momentary
hesitation. But her great love raised her
far above such pitiful little observances of
decorum ; with a quicker step she came
on, and then without a word she put her
hands upon his shoulders, and kissed him
full on his lips.

Doubt and mistrust could have no place
with her, so without a trace of woman's
pretty coquetry she gave him her troth,
and measured his faithfulness by her own.

That kiss loosened David from the spell
that was over him. How long he held
her he did not know, but when he loosened
her they were alone.

*' You look at me as if you were worshipping

me," she said to him, when the''
were seated side by side in the window.

'' So I do," he said. " Regina Coed ; "
and he put a piece of her dress to his
Hps.

*' Yet," she said timidly, '' I have been
very wicked."

'No," he said; terribly led astray
but not wicked. You never wished to do-any
thing wrong."

''I thought," she faltered, 'that death
was better than dishonour."

''So it is ; better than some sorts of
dishonour. Daring, you were ignorant 
not wicked."

"I am so ignorant," she said; "there
are so many things I ought to know. But
I have learned much since I have been
with these good, kind people, and one of
these things is the difference between
Christianity, as they hold it, and
Socialism."

What is that ? " said David. " Some

people say they are the same, though I
never believed them."

The}' are not the same!" cried Fia-meta;
'thej are not the same, for the
Christian's maxim is, * All that is mine i&
yours,' and the Socialist's is only, eau
that is 5' ours is mine.' If there were
more Christians, there would be fewer
Socialists, perhaps ; but they are not the
same at all."

'that is true," he replied.  And
I, too, have learned much from your
other friends. I know that I am no
better than my neighbours, and so I do
the comfortable classes the justice to b&
sure that it is only ignorance of the
misery that the world holds that keep
them from setting it right."

*' But should they not have found out
about it ? " said Fiametta.

'' You cannot learn when you don't
knows that there is anything to learns*'
said David. '' Let them only learn as I

have learned, and it will not be the fear
of Socialism, but the love of God's poor,
that will make them real Christians. The
Socialist may talk of his rights  we have
no rights ; we have only duties. But we
must learn what they are." And then
he went on to tell her of his work among
the poor, knowing the happiness it would
give her. ' You understand," he concluded,
'that v/hat I most wish to preach
is the holy, and very little believed
in, gospel of play. Now you will supply
me with a practical illustration. You
complain that your health is too weak
to allow you to help me much. You
are to play, and when the women see, as
they shall see, how altogether beautiful
and delightful you are, they will say 
Come, too, let us play,' and thus the
gospel shall be preached."

'but you don't want everybody to
play ? " she asked.

"Yes, I do."

' But people must work ; it is their
duty to work."

'* Man being so lamentably short of his
high calling  which is to play, and be
beautiful  perhaps people ought to work
to a certain extent ; but work cannot bethe
object of life, only the means to attain
an end, and that end, I maintain, is play.
I remember putting it poetically in my
childhood as lying on the grass and eating
apples all day. Just what Adam and Eve
did, only substitute bananas for apples.
Eating apples brought them no good."

* But you work," she said, rather
puzzled ; *' why, you work a great deal."

because I want others to play. I
shall take you about with me as the
practical illustration, just as at some
temperance meetings they are said to
keep a tame drunkard to show as an
awful example. I shall show you for a
beautiful example. All the women will
be raving to be like you''

His words were light, but there was a
steadfast purpose in his face, and a deep
shining in his eyes that showed how
earnest he was at heart. She read him
then as she had failed to read him in the
early days of their friendship. Moreover,
the high qualities that she saw in him
now had been undeveloped then. He saw
her look, and he knew what it meant.
Raising her hand to his lips, he said
gravely 

' For the poor and suffering we give
sour lives to be freely spent."

