CHAPTER I.

THE jtfONTGOMERIES OF KEKINVEAN.

Ye banks, and braes, and streams around
The Castle o' Montgomery,
Green be your woods, and fair your flowers,
Your waters never drumlie."

Burns.

A T Kerinvean, in the year eighteen

hundred and fifty-five, the spring

was roused from a sleep of snow-clothed

pines, ice-bound streams, and shrouding

b 2

mists, broken by restless dreams of tempest
and drifting sleet. She awoke ina
harmony of blessing, which resounded
over miles of hill and wood and
glen.

The hills were jubilant with the songs
of rivulets that rushed down through
every available furrow and creek to the
river and loch, overleaping in furious
eagerness all stones and mosses which lay
in their way, streaking the heights and
rocks alike with innumerable glittering
courses ; and, with the sound of their impetuous
ardour, was mingled the bleating
of the lamb, or, in the lonelier mountain-passes,
the far-off bellow of the wary
stag.

Reader, have you seen in classic lore,

that old, sweet legend from the isles of
Greece, which Nature repeats unfailingly,
and have you listened for the songs which
the spirits confined in the trees sing, when
the buds have burst, and the leaves come
forth ? The words of the songs are far
beyond your divining ; but, gleeful or
lamenting, you can always hear the voices,
for the spirits are still only in the momentary
hush that heralds a dirge, in
which humanity is defied, and you are
ever awed, by the God-like strength in the
wailing of the imprisoned. Here at Kerin-
yean the forests were rehearsing the
legend, and all day long, in waves of
melody, the chorale rose. At dawn the
birds sounded their own revel, and on
through the day they sang, as if the orchestra

were a great gathering of treble
save when, in rare and quiet pauses, the
river's bass proclaimed its own share in
the psalm. All day long, till the eve
songs were ended, the birds were loudest,
but one by one the river heard thei
hushed to silence, and its own deep voice
crooned a lullaby to the last restless twit-terr
; then the woods held their breath in
the moonlight to listen, as on it rolled,
ever untired, to lose itself in the sea. Aud
in the long nights, when no one watched,
thousands of stars dropped down on the
waters, leaving no fewer in the sky, and
there they lay, peeping in and out of the
wavelets, coyly smiling up to their sere:
sisters in the heavens, till Athena shot her
arrows through all space, and then, i

silently and unseen as they bad descended,
they wended their way up to the myriad
of shining clusters from whence they had
come.

Perchance Kerinvean was too far removed
from the world of strife and din to
change her rightful aspect because fierce
war was raging ; albeit the locality was no
farther than the Western Highlands of
Scotland.

A great stretch of mountain, moor, and
farm-land, a salt water loch running
through its glens, and a river that flowed
between dark woods, such was the track
of country known as Kerinvean. It
was utterly separated by natural causes
from the tumultuous life of cities and
governments, the smoke of furnaces did

not wind any pestilential fumes over its
mountain walls, and the noise of the cannons
was all unheard in its water's roll.
Besides, it was nothing strange that the
influence of war did not alter the face of
nature at Kerinvean, for it was not a
populous district, nor was it rich in metallic
produce. Its surface had never been
blackened nor defiled ; and, just as a
demon could find his way all tracked by
familiar scenes through the dreary foulness
of our cities, so an angel might wander at
long intervals over Kerinvean, and recognize
no change save that of which he
would approve.

A massive granite castle was the homestead
of the Montgomeries, the owners of
the land ; a. sombre stately pile, much of

which had been built in past centuries.
It stood on a level plateau at the base of
Ben Yeurnish ; to the left there was a
long sweep of loch seen from many of the
windows of the castle, and this loch was
bordered by headlands, varied by hill and
dale, rock and wood, which never looked
fairer than in that year of grace and war.
Away to the right were high hills and wild
glens, and in front, deep buried in the
woods which sloped down to its banks, or
abruptly ended in steep, craggy precipices,
rolled the river which the Montgomeries
claimed, as no one but themselves owned
a rood of the land which bordered it on
either side.

The limes and beeches were green earlier
that year, as if they had been suddenly

roused, and bidden to look around, where
the old firs in their eternal dress were bowing
in venerable recognition to all younger
nature, creaking and straining like ships
on a troubled ocean ; the limes and
beeches had made haste to don themselves
in green like the larches, already singing
their summer songs about the sea,
and bare branches were quite rare in
the month of May, eighteen hundred and
fifty-five.

Stewart Montgomery, or, as he was
called, according to the Highland custom,
by the name of his property, Kerinvean,
was, at this period, thirty years of age. He
was still a bachelor, and had been in possession
of his estates since his majority.
In all Scotland there was no one more enduring

on the hill, no one who could stalk
a deer, or play a salmon, with more skill
than he, and for him life seemed to have
no more serious obligation.

The laird's heedless nature was
in thorough contrast to the character
of Robert Montgomery, his brother, and
junior by two years. A stern and God-fearing
man, grave beyond his years,
and known in his regiment and the
service, as the bravest and most fearless.
The property yielded a small allowance
to the younger brother, and Kerinvean
would gladly have added more, especially
at the period of Captain montgomery's
marriage, but the offer was
declined firmly.

This event had taken place six years

before the commencement of my story,
and a happy married life had been spent
in different parts of England, varied
by long visits to Kerinveau, where the
beautiful wife received her due of homage
from the reticent men and douce
women of the hills, who were enthusiastic
in speaking their praise of " my teddy "
at the Castle.

Mrs. Montgomery was the only child
of a well known artist, but, though inheriting
no little share of her father's
genius, she was too fragile for the incessant
labour which Art entails ; nevertheless,
during her sojourns at Kerinveau,
she worked much as her tastes impelled.

Two children were born at the Castle,
which, Kerinveau said, was the rightful

birthplace of all Mori tgo merles, and the
tenantry, to whom their own opinion, on
such subjects, was a weighty matter, sincerely
acquiesced in the significance of
such a decree, and when the elder, a
boy, was born, they lighted bonfires on
all the hills, as if he had been the heir,
and Kerinvean joined the mirth as gladly
as if the infant had been his own son.
There was wondering among the people
when the name Roderigue was given to
the child, instead of a familiar patronymic,
but their conclusion about it was as characteristic
of their affection for the mother,
as of pride in their laird's family : An
authority was heard to say :

Doubtless my teddy had a friend
called by this name, and it would not

have a foreign sound if borne by a montgomery,
that just made all the difference
whatever."

The younger child, a girl, was called
Marie, and was the idol of her parents.

The Montgomeries were, at this time,
all together at Kerinvean, where the
children found the days too short for the
schemes that were developed in their busy
brains. They heard no ominous sounds,
they saw no shadows, only the fond husband
and father heard and saw the Inevitable
; it loomed darkly before him as the
hours of his day of grace sped on ; he
knew the mandate would soon come that
would forerun a parting full of terror and
anguish.

There was no doubt nor hesitation in

Robert Montgomery's mind ; once duty
was recognized, he was invincible to all
other considerations, so, while Kerinvean
was too heedless to perceive the coming
danger, and the young wife too happy
to believe it could be near, he was
strengthening his courage for the doom
that might be awaiting him ere the leaves
of that fair spring were whirled from
their branches by the autumn wind. He
nerved himself for the parting, too brave
to be deluded by belief in immunity from
peril. Facing the possible worst, he grew
calm to meet his fate, whatever that might
be.

At length the bugle sounded, and its
echoes reached even to Kerinvean beyond
the hills, on the fairest day of all that fair

springtide ; and of those whose hearts were
stirred by its stern call, only he who had
been listening was not astounded to hear
it. With a simple letter, an order from
the War Office to join his regiment at
Portsmouth a week hence, came dread and
grief into that happy household. His
favourite sports were unheeded by the
laird, the fair young wife laid aside the
palette and brushes she might never use
again, and the children looked wistfully
around for explanation of the strange
words they heard ; and the sorrow of the
parting hours seemed to foretell the overshadowing
of a relentless fate.

CHAPTER II.

ROBERT MONTGOMERY'S TRUST.

Now thou art sealed the son of chivalry."

Shakespeare.

TTERINVEAN, who was sincerely attached
to his brother, tried to
persuade him to exchange into another
regiment ; but, finding how useless were
his strongest arguments against the
soldier's sense of duty, he gave himself upto
the general regret, and sought no surcease
from his ordinary pursuits. The
vol. i. c

terrible sorrow which filled Mrs. 's
heart was never for one moment
lulled, and the brothers made arrangements
for her and the children, almost
without consulting her. Kerinvean asked
to be allowed to protect them all until his
brother should return.

"It would be childish in me, Stewart,"
said Captain Montgomery, " to ignore the
probability of my never returning; in that
case "

In that case," responded Kerinvean,
quickly interrupting him, "your wife shall
be gently cared for. As long as it pleases
her to remain here, the house will have no
other mistress, and your children shall be
as my own to me. It is not likely that I
shall ever marry now. Be ." he added,

in a more cheerful tone, (i Ruy is already
recognised as the heir, and I believe there
would be a rising of our people if he were
supplanted."

I do not think, Stewart," answered Captain
Montgomery, " that it will be judicious
to foster that idea ; it might bring a
harvest of sorrow. If I return, I will
certainly educate my boy with the prospect
of work ; I am sure he would ill become
the position for which you design him, if
he knew nothing by experience of the
worth of labour and self-reliance."

Come, don't be hard on me, Bob," said
Kerinvean, " I mean kindly by the lad,
and even if you should not come back,
which God forbid, his mother's influence
would always be stronger than mine, and,

c>

failing hers, I can but give you my
solemn word to do my best for Ruy."

"And with your promise I will rest
satisfied," answered Robert Montgomery ;
"and now, with confidence, I trust all that
is dear to me to your care."

Kerinvean's serious manner somewhat
misled the grave young father, for he
thought no one could speak of such contingencies
without being impressed by
their importance. Kerinvean was impressed
at the time, and sincerely meant
to fulfil all he undertook, but it is a huge
responsibility for a man of thirty to foretell
how far he will, or will not, be swayed
by circumstances in the course of time.
To follow the career of Roderigue montgomery
will also be to track the footsteps

of a destiny which made havoc of
the promise so generously offered, and
which was more irrevocable than a vow
to a dead brother, however dear his
memory.

When the day for fulfilment is present,
the engagements of the past have often
become all too visionary to compare with
the urgency of newer claims. What a
farce the most solemn human oath must
be to the recording angel !

Roderigue, or, as his family called him, Ruy
Montgomery, had a singularly impressionable
nature, and, though of a strong temper,
he inherited so much of self-control from
his father, and gentleness from his mother,
that already his character was greatly defined
for one so young. When Captain

Montgomery told his son of his intended
departure, the child's grief was well nigh
unrestrained, but it was no small solace
to the father to see bow bravely he essayed
to roaster it.

Go now, Ruy," said Captain ,
putting the boy from his arms,
where he had clung sobbing in the passion
of his first sorrow, "go and tell your sister
what you have just heard."

The boy found Marie playing with her
doll under the trees.

Marie," he said, sitting down beside
her, "I have something to tell you."

"Is it a secret ?" the girl asked.

CD

eagerly, laying down her doll.

No, it is not a secret. Father is going
away next week."

Oh ! but next week is such a longtime
off yet," was the philosophic response,
and she took up her doll again.

Yes, Marie, but he is going over the
sea to the war."

Is he going to be killed, Ruy ?" asked
the little girl, throwing down Miss Doll.
Nurse says that is what they go to the
war for."

Ruy had not time to answer ere the
prattler's thoughts took another turn.

Ruy," she asked, "would you like to
go away over the sea with him ?"

Yes, I would like to go when it is my
turn," he answered.

Would you like to go and leave me ?"

she persisted, picking up her Doll, as if

to assure herself of not being left entirely
alone.

"No, Marie," answered the boy, "not
till it's my turn, and then I suppose I
must go."

And the speaker's young face resumed
its habitual look oP fearless bravery, which
gave to the homely folk, whose right to
free remarks about the family was never
questioned, reason to say that already he
resembled the portrait of Sir David
Montgomery, the bravest of all his
ancestors.

The likeness certainly was remarkable
between the boy and the picture of
the ill-fated bridegroom, who, on the
day of his marriage, received au order
from his exiled liege to go immediately
on a secret mission into the Low-country.
Ere nightfall he was surprised

by a party of King William's soldiery,
who shot him like a dog, for the
crime of withholding his master's secret.
His young page, who was considered too
insignificant by these ruffians to waste
shot upon, told to the third generation
how Sir David had gravely smiled, as
if he had caught a glimpse of heaven,
when the carbines were levelled at him,
and how the smile was still on his face
when he lay dead in the moonlight on the
night of his marriage, not forty miles
distant from his home and his waiting
bride.

Stories of bravery were common enough
in the Montgomery annals, and Ruy loved
to wander up and down the long gallery
at Kerinvean, where the portraits of his

ancestors hung. He knew most of their
histories by heart, and was never more
happy than when in the silent company of
these pictures, for his imagination gave
them life, and they were all real embodiments
of the most heroic qualities to the
thoughtful child.

At the time appointed, the brave, young
officer went forth to his doom in that
fatal Crimean war. The fiends of hell
might have envied the carnage, and spoil
of human beauty by human skill, there to
be seen, month after month, in sickening-monotony
; but no stouter courage left its
record than that displayed by Captain
Montgomery, when, bleeding from a deadly
bayonet wound, he urged his men to
follow him as he endeavoured to keep his

saddle and rode into the fatal charge, where
he fell. To his widow the world's acclaim
was nothing, save for the significance it
would be in the lives of the children, that
their father had died as a hero. Her wail
went from a heart broken and desolate,
and, ere the close of that eventful year,
Kerinvean's vow was due.

It was a strange position for this young
man, to find himself the sole guardian of
two orphans, and he did not adequately
realise his responsibility. Too impulsively
generous to be other than careless,
and having had gratification for all his
own whims and wishes ever at hand, by
habit he shrank always from care and
trouble, and was averse to gauging the
extent of his duties. He accepted nearly

all the changes in his life as natural
sequences. This guardianship, with all its
possibilities, gave him no great concern ;
for, when he entered upon it, he was still
grieving for the loss of his brother. The
only difficulty concerning the children was
the present emergency. Kerinvean did
not like them to be left to the sole care of
hirelings ; but it was some days before he
could decide on any step, and his thoughts
dwelt on many plans, till at length they
halted in satisfaction on the suggestion f
the existence of his man}'-times-removed
cousin, Miss Mathilda Mackenzie of Cairn
Douhl.

CHAPTER III.

THE LADY OF CAIRN DOQHL.

No queen, before a shouting crowd,
Led on in bridal state,
E'er struggled with a heart so proud,

Entering her palace gate ;
Rejoiced to bid the world farewell,

No saintly anchoress
E'er took possession of her cell
"With deeper thankfulness."

Wordsworth.

rTlHE following spring was as full of

glory and promise as that which

had preceded it. The changeful beauty

of unnumbered years showed on every
hill side, and nature wore no less glad
an aspect because there were so many
more desolate homes in the world than
there were a year ago. The pines had
dreamed once again, not of clashing
swords nor booming cannons, but of
snow-storms and icicles, and the winds
of spring had come to toss and waken
them, as a giant shakes himself at dawn.
They swayed on now as solemnly as ever ;
up in their branches, close to the clouds,
there was no moaning over pain and hoe
but only a song of deathless praise, unto
which human voices could never be attuned.

Miss Mackenzie had joyfully accept
Kcrinvean's proposal that she should
make her home at the Castle, and lie

had the good feeling to arrange that

o a o

there her position should be that of one
of the family. So attractive and winning
was their new monitress, that soon the
children placed entire confidence in her,
and this trust developed ere long into
strong and lasting affection.

Mathilda Mackenzie was a lady of undistinguishable
years ; judging from her
appearance, one might have guessed anything
from thirty to forty-five, and, from
her sympathies, , any age between ten
and a hundred. A refined nature, a
fair, comely face, a straight, pliant figure,
a pleasant voice, and kindly manners,
such was Miss Mackenzie of Cairn Douhl.
She had been early left an orphan, and
had resided during the most part of her

girlhood in London, in the home of a
distant relative, and, after his death, with
a penurious aunt, who had large possessions.
After seven years of illness, during
which this miserly old woman displayed
a degree of fractious wilfulness
hitherto unparalleled, Mathilda tending
her day and night, she died, leaving a
tiny cottage, called Cairn Douhl, and only
sixty pounds a year, to her devoted niece,
and the residue of her riches to public
charities.

Mathilda Mackenzie's womanhood had
been spent in struggling ; first to bring
her buoyant nature into harmony with
the only life possible in her aunt's household,
and afterwards, when the invalid
grew more and more unbearable, daily

and hourly to fulfil the duties imposed
upon her with cheerfulness. After the
death of her aunt, there was more struggling
to be done ; poverty and Highland
pride strove together in the heart of
Mathilda, ay, and sometimes in the body
also, when the meals were scantier than
usual. Though appetite is a common-place
enough enemy, he rebels at bareness,
and unconquerably too, when health is
surest, but in most conflicts Mathilda's
pride vanquished its foes. No one understood
how she managed to live on
her income, and certainly no one ever
presumed to hint that any management
was needed, but, her charities being innumerable,
sometimes her attendant would
venture to remonstrate, though for answer
VOL. i. d

would receive only the following, or some
similar reply :

"My race has always been renowned for
the giving of help to whom it was due,
when it was in the power of the hand todo
it, and only shame could be the portion
of a Mackenzie who dealt with ' a slack
hand'"

Mathilda prided herself greatly on her
name, as purity of descent was her special
strong point, and historical knowledge her
chief acquirement. She had gained a
local celebrity for her memory of events
that had taken place in her own country.
There was scarcely a family of any note
in Scotland whose alliances, ancestry, and
remarkable characteristics were unknown
to her ; and, on all disputed questions of

pedigree and precedence among them, she
was a most valuable referee, and was,
moreover, always willing to give information,
whether legendary or authentic, and
it was not the fault of her array of examples
if doubtful points were not decided.
On all festive occasions she wore a silken
scarf of Mackenzie tartan, fastened by a
jewelled buckle, an heirloom in her family,
and she would no more have considered
herself perfectly dressed without these decorations,
than, at state ceremonials, would
our Queen without the blue ribbon of the
Garter. Woe be to the innocent who ventured
to admire either scarf or jewel,
unless he were prepared to listen to the
history of the first Mackenzie chief who
received the buckle from a royal person

i!

age, and to a minute description of many
of his successors. Mathilda grew eloquent
relating how the Macgregor, their hereditary
rivals, had fought the Mckenzie a
whole century because of a quarrel concerning
the bauble, and that even the
Kerinvean Montorneries had often claimed
a right to its ownership, because one of
them, in remote times, had married a
Mackenzie. Mathilda always ended her
account by saying she was glad to be the
possessor of the jewel, as the tradition
concerning it was, that "its owner should
never lack love nor gear."

This good woman's naturally genial disposition
revivified in a remarkable manner
under the blessed influences of love and
plenty; her life seemed to have been transported

into an enchanted castle, of which
she was nominal mistress ; the cessation of
daily pinching to make both ends meet
having a wonderful effect in brightening
the spirit which seven years of servitude
had tamed, though never crushed.

Kerinvean's most frequent guest and
nearest neighbour was Mr. Campbell, who
lived on the neighbouring small property
of Invenit

would have been difficult to divine
the basis of the sincere friendship which
bound together two men so opposite in
character and pursuits. Mr. Campbell
had for several years honourably filled a
chair at Oxford, but, being devoted to
letters and antiquarian researches, on the
death of his wife, had retired to his native

lulls, there to follow, undisturbed, hi
erudite tastes. The most apparent reasons
for the intimacy were that he possessed
a happy temperament, was fond of
quiet, social intercourse, and, having no
engagements save those of study, was as
free to come and go where he liked, as his
bachelor friend Kerinvean. Mr. Campbell
had one child, and this boy, Archie,
was as welcome at the Castle as in his
home at Invean ; a few years the senior
of Ruy Montgomery, he was, to him and
to Marie, both hero and companion.

It was Mr. Campbell who had su
Quested to Kerinvean to secure Miss Mac-kenzie's
care for the children, and both
men were fflad now for their own Bakes
that she had come. Often, in the long

evenings after the children had retired,
they delighted in the society of this accomplished
lady, who had added to her many
acquirements a most extensive knowledge
of the music of her nation. She would
often play for hours strathspeys and reels
without once repeating herself, varying
her performance with singing, there being
hardly a Jacobite song extant which was
unknown to her.

Miss Mackenzie had also the gift of
the story-teller, and very graphically could
she recount the doings of bye-gone days.
The recital of Highland legends was peculiarly
interesting to Mr. Campbell, and
many an appropriate question did he venture,
in order to lead Miss Mackenzie to her
favourite themes. Gaelic lore invariably

bored Kerinvean, and, when the clans
of Maclean, Macdougal, and Macdonald
got hopelessly mixed in his mind, lie
would break the spell which enthralled
these two lovers of primitive history by
asking for one of the laments or corol
which their names recalled, and the
unsuspecting Mathilda cheerfully acquiesced,
this being only another mode of recounting
the deeds of those who were
to her the heroes of the whole earth.

CHAPTER IV.

BOYHOOD.

' Nine years old ! The first of any,
Seem the happiest years that come.
Yet, when I was nine, I said
No such word ! I thought instead
That the Greeks had used as many

In besieging Ilium.

J>

Mrs. Browning.

rTIHE years glided on very peacefully

at Kerinvean. Miss Mackenzie

taught the children, and they made

great progress. She had no difficulty
in understanding Marie, but there were
times when Ruy sorely puzzled her.
His strange questionings, which often
found unprepared and weak places in
her hitherto unassailed orthodoxy, his
droll views of subjects she had never
before heard treated but with implicit
credulity, and his comprehensive grasp of
all the subtle points in his lessons, proved
to Miss Mackenzie that he would soon
need a more masculine guidance.

Meanwhile Mistress Nature had appropriated
Ruy for her own pupil, and was
instructing him in deeper mysteries than
were found elsewhere; day by day there was
growing in his heart a love of the beauty
which surrounded him, and which made

woods and hills and river dearer than
human speech.

Kerinveau, who was attached to both
the children, was very indulgent after his
own inconsequential fashion, though he
preferred gleeful Marie's company to
Ruy's, for the latter always appeared to
feel most interest in subjects which to
Kerinvean were mere abstractions.

Into hours were so full of exquisite enjoyment
to Ruy as those he spent with
Archie at the river fishing unweariedly, or
when alone dreaming the hours away ; together
they often followed the tracks of animals
in unfrequented places, or the flights
of birds in the woods, till they had quite
satisfied themselves about the reason of
any habit which had before seemed strange.

All the innumerable living creatures in the
woods were also Ruy's companions, his
sympathetic intelligence apprehended their
conditions, and he never felt lonely. In
his wanderings he would rehearse the
deeds of his ancestors, or the legends Mihi
Mackenzie had recounted. There was no
spot too secluded for the boy, who could
people it with imaginary knights and heroes,
and who heard in the noisy rush of the
streams the trampling of steeds, the clang
of armour, and songs of triumph. There
were no moans of the vanquished yet in
Ruy's dreaming.

He had one ally, who, besides being devoted,
was, because of his peculiar character
and long experience, an unfailing help.

Peter Ramsay, a confidential servant under

the manager of the home farm, was a dependent
of a type rare in these times.
To him stalking a deer or making a
plough was equally familiar, and between
these performances could be counted a
hundred, alike on land and water, that
needed skill, and for which Peter Ramsay
had a willing capacity.

Many years ago, Kerinvean's father had
sent Ramsay in charge of some valuable
stock from the Low Country, and afterwards
had offered him a situation of trust
at the farm ; since then he had attached
himself to the family, and had proved
his discretion on many important occasions.
He had never had any desire to
leave Kerinvean, and when Ruy once asked
him if he would not like to go again to the

Continent, where he had spent two year
with a former master, Peter answered :

No, Master Ruy, I'm content here,
and I hae travelled far enough in my
youth to ken noo that a decent body can
never find a better place than his ain
countrey to bide in. A' the cities you
speer about are mostly filled wi' dirty
begin' folk, and there's nae kind o'
righteous individuality wi' ony o' the
nations except Scotland, and sae I'm content
to baud up my testimony here."

Sometimes Peter soared beyond Buy 'a
comprehension as they sat by the riv
between their raids on the fish. He v
an odd mixture of shrewdness and religion,
ami, moreover, was ever ready to explain
the subjects of Ruy's perplexities, so that

the boy bad naturally a strong liking for
him. There was no one else who knew
the day the swallows would come, nor
the time they would muster for flight ; he
could show the owls' nests, and had promised
to take the boys to the " Eagle's
Crag," where was a rock to climb that
would need a firm foot and steady eye,
yet when Ruy asked when they were
to go, for a long time Peter would only
answer with a smile: "We'll just bide a
wee ; there's nae hurry, it's aye there."
Which reply at length proved to Ruy
that Peter preferred to be the suggested
of all such expeditions.

Peter was a splendid salmon fisher ; he
was acquainted with the best pools, and his
knowledge of where to get a grilse with

little more than a single cast, when other
people had pronounced the river in " bad
trim," was a wonderful intuition in Ruy's
opinion. His gentle care of the boy engendered
a life-long gratitude. He would
often lift him over rocks and boulders,
himself almost up to the waist in water,
sometimes with a salmon on the line ; and
he would even take him on his back to
follow the vagaries of the fish.

When Ruy was eight years of age, Mr.
Campbell offered to become his tutor, and
the willing pupil went daily to Invean, and
many a never-to-be-forgotten ramble did
he and Archie have after their day's work
was over. At the end of three years of
this companionship, Archie went to Eton,
and then Ruy gave his heart to his

studies, in order that Mr. Campbell might
sooner consider him sufficiently prepared
to join Archie. Ruy had no other desire
in his anticipations of Eton, and the time
at length arrived when he was to go therewith
his friend.

Then came the last day at the river ;
but, though Peter had rods and flies in
splendid order, the weather was somewhat
too bright, or the wind played
pranks with the line, for the fish would
not rise. No salmon was landed till
Peter, who was always unweariedly persevering,
succeeded, and at length the trio
sat down to eat their luncheon.

ft I can't understand," said Archie,
"how it was I had not a single rise."

You manna try to force a king in

VOL. I. E

his ain part o' birth, Master Archie ; ye
maun mak' terms wi' him. Just when ye
think you've got him, he's mast likely to
be lauchiQ' at ye. Gin ye gie him the fly
he wants, if you're no clever at plain'
him, he'll maybe gar ye gae wa' miles
toon the stream, no rneanin' to land ava
Whiles it's a big fly, and whiles it's a wee
ane he'll tak', an' ye cinna fecit him withe
right weapons, ye'll never gaff him.
The wisdom in fishing' is to ken which.
Just as that callant Dawvid, the morn he
gazed foot to slay his adversary, kent a
wee stane was the best for his sling.
Naethinof could hare killed Goliath that
day but a wee stane," added Peter, sen*
cautiously.

"Pity Hector did not think of a small

stone when lie hurled that ponderous
one at the seven-fold shield of Ajax,"
remarked Ruy, dreamily.

I fancy there must have been something
in the way David threw the stone,"
said Archie, taking up a pebble and aiming
it at a twig that was floating down
the stream at the other side of the pool,
and hitting it with uncommon skill. " It
strikes me, Peter," he added, laughing,
David himself could not have aimed
better than that."

"Diana be making' beaches o' Dawvid,
Master Archie," said Peter, looking shocked
at what he was pleased to consider
levity. " Ye'll no be mair thocht o'
for familiarity wi' Scripture characters."


E Z

LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY Of 1LLIN

Peter liked to make all the biblical allusions
himself, and the boys were so
much accustomed to his ways that neither
ever took offence at anything he
said, whether in censure or admonition.

After Peter left them, they strolled
about waiting for Miss Mackenzie and
Marie, who had promised to join their
pic-nic. They did not care to converse
much, for the river rolled along mightily.
They sat down after a time beside a deep,
black pool, where the wild, unceasing roar
was, for a few yards, lulled to peaceful
stillness.

There it came, from a bend in its bed,
down over the rocks which fretted it into
foam ere it reached the pool, though the
foam scattered itself, and showed only

in a few stray bubbles on the surface of
the still, dark water in front of them. A
noisy, ruthless stream it was up at the
fall, proclaiming loudly enough that nothing
should stay its course, not even the
great brown crag in the middle, which
some giant in sport must have tossed
from the hill above, for it lay, with a
defiant look on its immovable front, doing
no harm whatsoever save parting the
water, which joined fiercely enough, in
whirling foam, at its base. The ash, and
the alder, and the small birches bent lovingly
over the rocks, and in all the
crevices were innumerable tufts of heather
and waving fronds, whole worlds of
beauty ; and there were few stones that
were not covered with mosses, green and

golden. The ferns waved in noble, silent
fashion to the trees above them, and
nothing had a loud utterance save the
river.

At the side where the boys lingered,
the rowan-trees grew right down to the
water, and amid their drooping green
hung many a scarlet cluster. The reflections
were as vivid as the berries themselves,
so that it was almost impossible
to believe that those red and
glittering bunches in the water were
illusions.

But the boys were not thinking of illusions
; Archie, to whom a day at the river
was a thorough delight, was looking round
wondering which of the trees was the highest,
and considering their different merits

as regarded the feasibility of climbing.
Ruy, to whom climbing was as natural as
to a squirrel, was not thinking of anything
to add to the enjoyment he found watching
the scene. Had he been asked what
his thoughts were, most probably he would
have said that he was listening to the far-off
songs of all the burns which rolled down
the hills to swell the big stream, and to
the "hush, hush," of the aspens, which all
day long they murmured monotonously
to the dark, still pool, and which the river
obeyed, till its bed grew wider a hundred
yards below, where stones and rocks lay
in such scattered masses that out of hearing
of the aspens its babbling began again,
and thence all the way down to the loch
its song mocked their entreaty.

You will miss the river at Eton, Hue,"
said Archie at length.

"Yes," answered Ruy, "it makes me
wish I had not to go."

Oh ! you won't be sorry, once you are
there," responded Archie, change and excitement
being in his anticipations of the
future, " though on a day like this I can't
help thinking of the river wherever I
am.

"And I  I think about it always," answered
Ruy, " there's everything in its
sound ; to-day I can fancy I hear the tide
rolling up against headlands miles away ;
I don't believe any place in the world
can be half so wild and grand as Kerin-
yean."

u And I am sure of it," said Archie, in a

tone that was quite unsuggestive of contradiction.
" Gore always laughs when I
tell him this, and says it's uncivil to Broc-ton,
but he is an awfully good fellow for
all that."

Dallas Gore was a schoolfellow of
Archie's ; their mothers had been related.
Ruy shared in his friend's admiration for
this youth, who had chosen, and was destined
for, the career of a soldier, which,
in those clays, seemed to Ruy the synonym
for hero.

We won't have any more picnics till
next summer, Archie," said Marie, as
they all lingered under the trees in the
sunset.

"Don't make rash promises, Marie,"
answered Archie. " It won't make us anymore

jolly at Eton to think of you and
Miss Mackenzie pining for us, will it,
Hue T

We have not promised to pine," responded
Marie. " And I fancy you two
will be much more likely T to indulge in
that pleasure, for I think that even in
heaven I should want to come back sometimes
to dear old Kerinvean !"

Wouldn't it be grand," said Ruy, " to
be king's messenger there, and to be sent
to hell with an order for release to some
poor wretch who had served his time out,
and then to bring him here ; it would be
just as good as heaven."

The boy's face kindled as he thought
of his strange fancy ; Archie smiled at
Buy's enthusiasm, but neither of them

conjectured of a day when, to be transported
to Kerinvean would have seemed
to themselves little less than a transition
from hell to Heaven, and when, alas !
there might be no king's messenger to
free them from an exile in which soul and
body were to languish in utter longing
for release.

CHAPTER V.

INTERLACE.

What is past I know, but what is for to come I
know not."

Esdras.

Ol EVEN years had passed since the date
of our last chapter. Seven years
had made little change on the landscape,
and had left but small trace ou the
grey homestead of the Montgomeries ;
all was the same save the shadows, which
flitted fitfully over in the sunshine, and

lengthened dreamily in the gloom, seemingly
the only evidences of mutability in
all the land.

Ruy Montgomery had studied vigorously
during his school-days at Eton. His
career there might have proved to Kerin-
yean that Nature brooks no interference
with the destiny of those she appoints
for her priesthood, but Kerinvean lacked
the understanding that should have discerned
this, and also the foresight that
would have made him shrink from the
sacrilege of appropriating that which she
had consecrated.

Ruy had gone forth with eagerness to
learn, for his ardour sought expression.
Fate decreed that an artist should one
day see a sketch he had drawn, and afterwards

should give him frequent lesson .
Much to Ruy's delight, this friend encouraged
the idea that Art was his vocation,
and, on leaving Eton, the boy felt
embolden to show Kerinvean some of his
drawings, telling him how earnest was
his wish to devote his life to the work.

Kerinvean spoke so disparagingly in
reply, both of the drawings and of ibis
nephew's plans for the future, that Ruy
could say nothing in defence of either ;
and, moreover, when Kerinvean hinted that
any further thought of Art, as a vocation,
would only incapacitate him for the work
and position he expected him to be willing,
and able, to fulfil, Ruy's sensitive temper
was shamed into a consciousness of having
seemed ungrateful.

Kerinvean bad so emphatically condemned
the pictures that at first Ruy
feared he must have chosen the wrongs
but he solaced himself by thinking
that, if he had any capability, the destined
mode of proving it would appear, and he
would find a way by-and-by ; that, meanwhile,
his work was merely a study, more
or less, of aesthetics, and that " in all
labour there is profit."

So afterwards he silently pursued his
drawing in leisure hours, and with time,
and increased facility, came a sure pleasure
; then he knew the germ was growing,
and he was content to toil and wait. He
acknowledged that at present there was
but one career open to him, and while not
under estimating the advantages of leisure

to study amid such influences as here surrounded
him, he at length decided to ask
Kerinvean for a definite position; and when
he was but twenty years of age he became
steward of the estates.

Through Kerinvean's mismanagement,
and the fraudulence of his late factor, the
property was not of the same value as
when he came into possession ; many of
the best farms were held by careless
tenants, much land needed reclaiming, and
the prospect before Ruy was a difficult
one. He was utterly inexperienced, and
had only the wisdom of thoughtfulness,
aud so he was ever alert to observe and
to listen, where there was any chance of
procuring information.

A brave and ardent youth was this Ruy

Montgomery, with a noble face, albeit
somewhat stern ; his blue eyes and auburn
hair came from the Montgomeries, and
the men of the hills said he was " his
father's picture," but the women averred
that he reminded them more of " my
teddy." He was remarkably tall, and
very agile, his tread was firm but ever
unhurried, and his voice deep and clear.
The Montgomeries had always been
famed for their stalwart men and beautiful
women ; brave, heroic cavaliers, and
romantic, high-souled ladies, gifted with
rare personal charms ; and this Eoderigue
seemed to have inherited all their attractions
of form and feature.

He was indeed a goodly picture, and he
did his progenitors credit ; he could have

VOL. I. F

passed muster with approbation before
them all, for there was a growing resemblance
to the bravest and finest of the
ancestry in his face ; in sooth he needed
only to ransack an oak chest, and to don
some time-worn habiliments, to be mistaken
for the portrait of Sir David montgomery,
whom Miss Mackenzie held to
have been the " Star of Chivalry of the
West Countries."

And Ruy, like all the rest of them,
chose his career for himself, determined
in the long run not to be balked, aud his
resolute power of working alone and unaided
with that in view, made him somewhat
crave ; there was a shadow of want
in his heart, for he fain would have given

up everything to pursue his object. Meanwhile
he was not without teaching ; the
impressions he was receiving from his
daily wanderings were making their own
way, and in the after time it was these
memories that were to cause him to be
merciless with himself, and to impel, year
after year, unyielding labour. But his
present life seemed, to his inexperienced
judgment, only a prelude with, which he
could have well dispensed.

Marie Montgomery had grown into a
beautiful maiden ; she was graceful, and,
like her brother, tall, but her features
were more regular than his, and her violet
eyes quicker in expression ; they never
hid a feeling, and would brighten sudden



ly, or become as quickly, tenderly sorrowful,
with emotion. Her chief beauty lay in
the wonderfully changing and sympathetic
play of her features. In character she
was enthusiastic and generous., though
with a tendency to reserve, a type of girlhood
somewhat rare now, when the self-repressed
reticence of our grandmothers
is generally put down to prudery or
apathy.

All Marie Montgomery's friends felt
that her ready comprehension and genuine
sympathy were her most loveable qualities,
and to be loved, greatly loved, was her
highest aim.

Kerinvean thought that n< drily
the mother's genius for painting ought
to be hereditary, and that it would be

in the natural order of transmission for
Marie to possess it, but her bent in the
arts was for music, and this talent had
been much encouraged by Miss Mac-kenzie.
For two seasons they had been
in London, where Marie studied, and
had every advantage in education which
could be secured for her, and where she
heard music constantly, which could not
fail to stimulate a disposition for it.

And, at the end of their second season
in town, Kerinvean went up to accompany
them home. He wished to please his niece
by arriving unexpectedly on the eve of an
amateur, invitation concert, given by the
professor of singing with whom Marie
studied, at which only pupils were to perform.


But, ere we relate further, we must
chronicle a page or two of Kerinvean's
early history, which had an important
bearing on subsequent events.

AN OLD LOVE  OFF AND ON.

Thou wast quite perfect in the splendid guile
Of woman's beauty."

O'Shaughnessy.

II If ANY years ago, when Stewart montgomery
was still a young man,
be was affianced to an English girl of
equal birth, renowned beauty, and high
spirit. His bride elect was a spoiled and

self-willed only child ; and, had it not
been for Kerinvean's sincere attachment,
he could not have borne, as long and
patiently as he did, with her domineering
moods and frequent displays of temper.
But at length he thought fit to remonstrate
with her concerning some rather
outrageous freak, whereupon, in an imperious
and dramatic manner, she dismissed
him.

Ere Kerinvean could bring his mid to
sue for pardon, he heard that the beautiful
Honoria was about to become the wife of
a rich Italian nobleman, of historic name
and aristocratic birth.

II Marchese di Garcelli, his successful
rival, was killed by a fall from his horse
but a year after marriage. The young

Marchesa was lefse with a very liberal
jointure, and the sole guardianship of her
child. Being a daughter, this child could
not inherit her father's titles, which was a
cause of great regret to the widow, who
could never willingly forego any possible
advantage in social position or influence.


By the time the Marchesa was free,
Kerinvean had become either too indifferent,
or too much interested in his brother's
family, to care to seek a renewal of the
old ties ; and, moreover, he was so uncertain
of success, he never tried to repair
the breach, so the widow had not been
troubled by his claims in the years that
had passed since they parted.

The Marchesa's modes of spending her

life were as variable as a fickle character
could make them. Honoria di Garcelli
was rarely gifted ; she had beauty and
originality enough to render her singularly
attractive, though her inordinate love of
admiration marred these graces, and her fitful
disposition caused most of her thoughts
to evaporate in mere words. Of a vigorous,
physical organization, she enjoyed splendid
health and unfailing spirits, so that her
numerous projects of travel were never
hindered by fatigue, and, had her plans for
work and philanthropy been fulfilled with
a steadiness of purpose adequate to her
bodily possibilities, the world would have
benefitted greatly by her good deeds.

Naples once proved an exception ; she
remained there from the commencement

of an epidemic until it was stamped out,
for it took the whole of that time to
banish from her mind the chagrin and
mortification which had prompted her to
leave Florence, and seek oblivion in such a
mission. It was said that during that
terrible scourge, the result of along period
of dirt and indigence, there was hardly a
hovel in Terra del Greco but knew " la bella
Marchesa," who gave more relief to the sick
and dying by the vision of her beauty, than
by all the wine and medicine she bestowed.
After this, her longest charitable fit, she
went to her home in London ; but no enduring
traces of the scenes she had witnessed
remained to impress her volatile nature.

Sometimes the Marchesa's vapid career
had intervals of study ; during these she

would wander from one art gallery to
another, occupying herself sketching pictures
which she never completed, or in
writing critiques, in which, although there
was undoubted ability, there was no continuity
of thought, and these, too, were
always thrown aside, incomplete, for some

newer fancy.

Most absurd of all, in a character which

was replete with contradictions, were the
Marchesa's pious attacks, during which, ina
toilette always faultless, she paid innumerable
visits to hospitals, where she
deliberated much with doctors and nurses
concerning different systems of cure ; and
to countless meetings for the propagation
of sound and unsound theories ; and to
any odd gathering where her presence

might be remarked. She was ever ready
to consort with people who would pay her
court, and withal there was such a ludicrous
mingling of religion, dress, propriety,
art, and scandal in the subjects
of her conversations, with many a hint of
the speaker's own perfections, and many
a candid insinuation, that she lacked not
listeners  of a sort.

Doubtless piety, practical ingenuity,
frivolous ambition, brilliant vanity, untiring
conversational powers, and what is
deemed good taste in matters of living
and dress, are somewhat a heterogeneous
union of qualities in one human being;
yet, if a woman possess all these, in addition
to wealth and beauty, there are few
people who will not consider her a desirable

acquaintance. The Marchesa freely
exercised the power which she possessed
in a rare degree, of fascinating and conciliating
people, without ever compromising
herself.

During Marie Montgomery's residence
in London she became acquainted with
the Marchesa' s daughter, lngha di Gar-cell
; they both studied with the same
professor of singing, and lngha was to be
one of the principal performers at the
concert which Kerinvean had unexpectedly
arrived in time to attend.

Kerinvean was not aware of this acquaintance
till the morning of the concert,
when Miss Mackenzie remarked that the
Marchesa had called several times, to take
Marie to rehearsal.

Oh ! uncle," said Marie, "she is so
handsome !"

Another beauty ?" responded Kerin-
yean, smiling ; he often tried to provoke
Marie's enthusiasm by appearing incredulous.


"I suppose," he added, " she is a dark,
foreign-looking little thing, your imagination
has idealized into a mysteriously
lovely being."

She is not a foreigner, uncle," said
Marie. " I was speaking of the Marchesa,
not of her daughter, though I think Ingha
di Garcelli's the most beautiful face I
ever saw, yet some people say she is
too pale; but the Marchesa is admired
by everyone, and is so handsome and
brilliant."

I knew her long ago, Marie, before
you were born ; so she is not quite a
stranger to me," and Kerinvean took up
his newspaper, and pretended to read.

He was greatly surprised to find
himself in such close proximity to his old
love, and he wished he had not come
in time for this performance, where,
even if he did not meet her, he would
without doubt see her daughter, and
he had an instructive dislike to have
regretful thoughts suggested to his
mind.

Having no excuse for absenting himself,
Kerinvean went to the concert, and
was much impressed by Iugha di Garcelli's
beauty aud her singing, but it was not till
the music was all over that he saw her

mother. Before that glimpse, he had
been introduced by Marie to Ingha in the
ante-room ; Kerinvean complimented heron
her performance, and also said he was
glad his niece had become acquainted
with her, and he hoped it was possible
that their intercourse might be continued
in Scotland. Iugha's eyes brightened ashe
spoke, but her smile vanished as she
bade farewell to Marie, and, when Kerin-
yean saw her again a few minutes afterwards
among the audience, it did not
occur to him that her wistful thoughts
were away among his hills.

The Marchesa did not know that Kerin-
yean was in town, and he saw her without
being recognized, and was surprised to
find how lightly eighteen years had passed

VOL. i. G

over the brilliant woman, who was evidently
the point of attraction in the group
by whom she was surrounded.

Kerinvean sighed, as he reflected how
unlikely it was that she would care to
remember him.

Ingha di Garcelli stood beside her mother,
and though her white gown was of
the simplest, its only ornament a rose of
the same colour, she seemed old enough
to be the Marchesa's sister, instead of her
child. Her pale, classic countenance was
suggestive of thought, and of a wistful
desire for response to an enthusiasm which
as yet had found no expression.

The mother's face was of a rare type,
not to be forgotten nor to be passed by
unobserved. Unceasing vivacity and self-consciousness

somewhat detracted, even to
the casual looker-on, from the lines that
were else chiselled and delicate, but lovers
of perfection of colour and form were
ever glamoured by the Marchesa's superb
beauty.

What wonder that Kerinvean's pulses
thrilled with an unwonted touch ! His
life had known no other rapture save that
short-lived dream, and it all came back
in this glimpse of his early love.

u Canna swerve " had many a montgomery
said and thought, when stern,
resolute valour had pointed the way that
led far apart from hope and joy ; and this
the most inconsequent of all Montgomeries
 he, too, had unwittingly made
his motto, and strangely and unawares

g2

was he fulfilling the tradition of his
race.

In the course of the month subsequent
to her return home, Marie received a
letter from Inorha, in which she said that
her mother had accepted an invitation
to Lord Kinaire's place in the Highlands,
and she feared she should be
obliged to accompany her, as their London
home was to be closed. Vino-ha bad never
before been to any large party, and she
wrote somewhat despondingly about this
proposed one. Marie showed the letter to
her uncle.

Miss di Garcelli does not seem to like
the idea of Invereothin with half Belgravia
there. As it is so near us, perhaps her
mother would permit her to come here

instead. If you would like it, Marie,
and you think the arrangement would be
pleasant to your friend, I will write about
it to the Marchesa," said Kerinvean.

That would be delightful," responded
Marie, and the result was that Kerinvean,
after much deliberation about the wording
of his invitation, wrote the following letter :

My dear Marchesa di Garcelli,

"I trust you will pardon an
old acquaintance for troubling you with a
letter. I would not have presumed todo
so save for the sake of my dear niece
Marie Montgomery, and for the request I
am about to proffer. I understand that
you contemplate a visit to Invereethin,
and that possibly Miss di Garcelli might care

more for the informality of Kerinvean than
for the gaiety of a large party. Marie informs
me that this is the case ; but perhaps
I ought to attribute some of her eagerness
to her genuine friendship for your daughter,
to whom I had the honour of being
introduced in London. If she would consent
to favour Kerinvean with her presence,
I can assure you she will, on all sides,
receive the warmest welcome. I shall be
only too glad to meet her at any stage of
the journey and drive her here. Assuring
you of my sincere regard, and trusting
you will express to Miss di Garcelli my
hope that she will be our guest, believe me
to be,

Yours truly,

Stuart Montgomery."

As the Marchesa read the letter, a smile
of conscious power passed over her face.
"You were riot once so formal!" was her
thought.

For several reasons she was glad to
acquiesce in her daughter's wish to accept
the invitation not the least important of
which was that she did not like going
into society with a grown-up child, and
Ingha was fast approaching womanhood ;
moreover, the Marchesa was accustomed
to absolute adulation, and did not care for
the prospect of sharing it.

In reply to Kerinvean's letter she wrote
the following, though not deliberating ashe
had done :

My dear Kerinveax,

Accept my own and lny daughter's

warmest thanks for your unexpected
letter, for writing which there was no
possible need for you to apologise. Weare
very much pleased to accept your kind
invitation. I intend leaving London a
fortnight hence, and will gladly avail myself
of your offer to meet us, and will write
to you saying the hour we shall be at
Kilane Inn which, I believe, is twelve miles
from Kerinvean, and we shall await your
arrival there before I proceed to Lady
Kin aire's.

11 1 should much like to see you again,
and to give nry daughter into your care.
She is overjoyed with the anticipation of
her visit, and this is not greatly to be
wondered at, considering how charming
her associates will be. AVith our kindest

regards to Miss Montgomery and Miss
Mackenzie, I am,

Yours sincerely,

Honoris DI GaRCELLI."

CHAPTER VII.

A YOUNG LOVE  FOR AIE.

I should certainly be glad.
Except, God help me, that I'm sorrowful."

Mrs. Browning.

A Archie CAMPBELL was still Ruy
Montgomery's comrade, though his
present temporary home was somewhat
more distant from the Castle than In-mean.
He was now domiciled at Craig
More, the house of Sir Dallas Gore's
uncle, Mr. Douglas, who farmed a large

property which he had inherited. Archie
had been two years his pupil and manager,
and had to remain another year to complete
his term.

Archie's maternal grandfather had left
him a goodly fortune, of which only a
nominal sum was appropriated for his
education, the bulk being designed by
the testator to accumulate until his
twenty-fifth year.

Archie and his father had decided that
it should be devoted to the purchase of a
Highland property, which Archie proposed
to farm, and Mr. Campbell had from year
to year added something from his own
savings to increase the capital.

Archie had a very powerful motive for
wishing to arrange this plan, for beyond it

lay the dream of a love to be won, a love
that had swayed all his boyhood with its
hope, and which now filled his manhood
with its strength. Archie's love was
silent in his own heart, and his passion
was as pure as the streams of his native
hills, and as unchangeable as the hills
themselves.

The morning Kerinvean received the
Marchesa's letter, Archie rode up to the
Castle. There was an unwonted look on
his face, and much dejection in his gait,
as he went unannounced to the room
where he knew, at this hour, he should see
some of the inmates.

He found Marie and Ruy together, and
they at once told him Miss di Garcelli
was coming soon to visit them, but the

news seemed to be almost unheeded by
Archie.

Is the Marchesa coming also ?" he
asked, trying to appear interested.

"No," answered Marie, "she is going
to Invereethin, so we shall have Inofha all
to ourselves."

Will she stay long?" asked Archie, who
had a Highlander's dislike to new acquaintances,
and whose own greatest delight was
the niche in the Kerinvean circle, where
his humour, genial manners, and handsome
face made him ever welcome.

One would suppose you intended absenting
yourself all the time, Archie," said
Marie. "You look as gloomy as if a
thunderbolt were about to explode in the-midst
of us."

Well, we don't know yet whether this
visit won't make an unexpected difference
to us all. If your friend had been a
man, we could certainly have amused him,
but a lady, and a foreign lady too ; she
will most probably completely monopolize
you and Miss Mackenzie, and perhaps turn
all our notions topsy-turvy."

"Wait till she comes before you judge
her," said Marie, kindly.

It was so unusual for Archie to look
dismally towards any event which promised
either novelty or pleasure, that Marie
divined he had some reason be T ont the
arrival of a stranger ; so, with the gentle
tact born of an instinctive sympathy,
she turned the conversation into another
channel, and anon asked Archie if

he bad come from lnvean or Craig More.

So Archie told them the object of his
visit that morning; and gave them the
news of a bank failure, in which ruin for
hundreds was irremediable, and for himself
total loss of all.

It had been the greatest surprise to him,
and was a heavy blow to Mr. Campbell,
before whom his son had found it almost
impossible, he said, in the shock to appear
hopeful, or to offer comfort where he saw
none.

Archie did not tell them the bitterest
part of the blow,  how could he? for
it concerned Marie. Besides having to
look into the blank future, there was
a bitter knowledge that lay all bare in
Archie's heart, but must never go beyond

it. As a Highland proprietor, well born
as he was, he could have sought Marie
Montgomery for his wife; penniless, with
neither home nor income, he must not
try to win her, for it would be years ere he
would be in a position suitable to ask her
in marriage, and long ere that time she
might be wooed and won.

So Archie reasoned in these first hours of
his loss, but with no spiritless succumbing
to circumstances. He would never yield to
their mastery where they merely concerned
himself, but he was not selfish enough
to wish her to enter the struggle. He felt
that his life would know no other love,
but he had not passionately resolved never
to see her again ; he had merely come in
his straightforward way to tell his dearest

friends of his trouble, perchance with a
lurking desire to prove whether he could
go in and out her home in the old familiar
manner, without the old familiar hope.

Archie banished from his mind the
thought of winning her now; it was as impossible
to cherish as a suggestion of
ceasing to love her, which would never be
likely to enter his mind. His devotion to
Marie was the freest and purest homage
of his soul, and, although in no way should
it beguile her now, it was none the less
hers for ever. It had grown with all the
summers and winters of his boyhood ; but
the man that morning was glad that she
had had no hint of it from him.

And Archie rode sadly away under the
old trees where, as children, they had

VOL. I. H

played together ; but he was not without
solace in thinking that he had Marie's sympathy,
though there was a significance to
him in the fact that it had been expressed
as if she had been his sister, but not as if
she had any personal share in the loss.

So it was that Archie felt relieved by
being isolated from her in his disappointment,
from her, too, who alone could have
soothed or lessened it, and he rejoiced
that no shadow lay across her path
cast by the gloom of his lot.

But the end was not yet!

CHAPTER VIII

AFTER LONG TEARS.

' Down our old untrodden paths the wild weeds grow."

Gerald Massey.

"TT ERINVE AN was now forty-three
years of age ; in the vigour of
manhood ; a keen sportsman and a careless
landlord. Though he appreciated the
advantages of his position, at all times
when practicable, he shirked its responsibilities
; and he rode, and shot, and ignored

all care, and was at this period a bronzed,

h 2

bearded man of splendid proportions, \vho r
for beauty of mien and stature, was called
throughout the county, " every inch a
Montgomery."

To the Marchesa di Garcelli the appointed
meeting at Kilane had little of the
importance which its anticipation possessed
for Kerinvean. Her memory had outgrown
all vividness about her old love,
and although she had said in her letter
she wished to see him, it was more from
courtesy than curiosity : she supposed him
to have become by this time a sort of
country squire, or at best but a county
magnate, whose provincial ideas would
be social absurdities in her world.

Lady Kinaire had more than once spoken
of having met Kerinvean, and had said

repeatedly that her neighbours in the
Highlands, the Montgomeries, were charming
; but the Marchesa put this down to
the supposition that her friend knew all
her history, and how nearly she had been
allied to these same Montgomeries before
her marriage.

As the day approached Kerinvean found
himself involuntarily thinking a good deal
of his past, though it was somewhat difficult
for him to associate the brilliant
lady whom he had seen at the concert
with the love of his youth, whom he remembered
so well.

And yet it was not from fidelity to this
early dream that Kerinvean had remained
unmarried; he was not a man to live for
an idea; circumstances swayed him as

often as inclination, and moreover he lacked
the imagination to comprehend the sentiment
that could make a man faithful to
a hopeless love. His bachelorhood was
rather attributable to the fact that for
some years after his disappointment he
had met no girl who had fascinated him
as Honoria had done, and afterwards he
became so much engrossed with his own
household, he did not seek interest apart
from it. The events of the hour, and the
pleasures and excitements thereof, had
gradually become his sole incentives to
action.

Kerinvean did not expect that the Marchesss
would treat him with more familiarity
than she would any other old acquaintance
with whom she had not had

intercourse for many years, he was therefore
annoyed with himself for feeling so much
apprehension concerning the meeting.

For his own part, he wished simply to
make an honest impression on her, and,
though he would not have her think he
had pined for her sake, he felt that he
could not appear altogether indifferent, but
he was not forceful enough to take the
initiative.

Kerinvean was noted for the splendour
of his equipments, and nowhere could he
have looked more at ease than when driving
his four finest bays to Kilane to meet
his old love, but some of the ease had
disappeared from his manner when he
asked the landlord of the little inn if the
Marchesa di Garcelli had arrived.

On, ay !" answered the old man, who
bad known Kerinvean when a boy,
though that fact did not make him less
respectful to his laird, who, if he were nota
hero, was at least a Montgomery. " You
will be spirit' for the grand teddy
that cam' in an hour syne. Come wa'
in by ; ye'll find the Marchesa waiting'

Kerinvean was ushered into a sitting-room.
It looked dingy coming into it out
of the sunshine, till he perceived the form
of the Marchesa, whose presence enlivened
the quaint, little, old-fashioned place ina
way to which it was not accustomed, for
the few bright flowers that twined themselves
against the walls outside, and
climbed up around the window-frame,

seemed to be peeping in very coyly to-day,
as if they were rather afraid of such a
splendid visitor.

Anon the breeze that swayed the roses
must have died down, or the Marchesa's
voice must have exorcised all their shyness,
for they fluttered no longer, but
listened, in perfect stillness, while these
two talked together after eighteen years of
silence.

The Marchesa was, perhaps, somewhat
nervous when she really came face to face
with Kerinvean ; but she had smiled on so
many men, it was not difficult for her to
greet him without apparent disturbance of
her pleasant manner. Few could withstand
the fascination of Honoria di Gar-cell's
smile, and those few were people

whose discernment was certainty less
equivocal than Kerinvean's.

She could not divine from his face what
were his impressions about her, but she
remembered that of old he had been
trusty, aud she quickly saw he was honest
still, for he could not long conceal the
admiration he felt on again beholding her.
More than one thought passed through
her mind in the moment that elapsed between
his entrance and her first remark,
and her quick eyes saw that she had reason
to congratulate herself on her girlhood's
taste, for Kerinvean would have been considered
a remarkably handsome man in
any society. Though there was a slight
diffidence in his demeanour, she had no
compunction in ascribing it to the surprise

her presence caused ; she had often seen
that sort of impression before, and, while
it did not make Kerinvean in the least
decree awkward, it enhanced him in the
opinion of his vain goddess.

11 It is long since we met, Kerinvean,"
said she, in her most charming tones ;
meanwhile I have been growing old, but
you look unchanged."

There was not much exaggeration in
her words about him ; his figure was a
little more stalwart, and his beard was
longer, but withal there was the same

CD J

manly bearing and frank expression which
had always characterised his appearance,
and he was now a finer specimen of physical
manhood than when he had wooed
her.

Probably she expected lie would contradict
her assertion concerning herself, and
would give her some of the adulation
which her small stock of refinement never
hindered her from seeking, though in
covert ways, her professed delicacy of
taste making her scrupulous only in matters
of decorum, but not in purity of
thought nor speech. But Kerinvean was
hardly in the mood for compliments.

You are changed since  since "

he responded, but halted slightly for a
word to express their parting, which she
quickly supplied.

u Since the time I behaved so infamously
to you, you ought to say. Ah ! well, weare
going to be friends now, I hope. Is it
too late to ask your pardon, or has indifference

made you forget that I once had
the power to wound you?"

No man could ever forget your power,
Marchesa di Garcelli," answered Kerinvean,
with the faintest possible emphasis in
pronouncing her name, as if to recall to
her memory that she had forfeited the
right to power over him when she married.

The March esa was determined to be on
good terms with him, and, coming up to
where he stood, she spoke :

"Monti," this was the name she was
wont to call him before he was entitled to-that
of Kerinvean  " Monti, let bygones
be bygones between us. I have suffered
much since those days, and sorrow has
left no trace on your face. Will you befriends
?"

A beseeching look of apparently genuine
feeling was on her face, and Stewart montgomery
was at once too unsuspicious and
too knightly not to be beguiled into the
belief that it was real ; he had had no
experience as precedent to guide him, he
had rarely seen so lovely a creature look
so sad, and he took her hand and raised
it to his lips, and for answer only
said :

I thank you for this honour."

She knew that unless he had fully
exonerated her from all blame in the past,
he would not have kissed her hand, and
she was too wary to can the conversation
beyond certain limits.

"I am glad," she said at length, "that
Vino-ha is to 0 with you instead of to

AFTER LONG YEARS. Ill

Invereethen. Kinaire's house is not the
best school for a young girl, but I know
you will take care of my child, and, if you
will let me, I will come over during her
visit. Ah, here she is."

Ingha came at this moment into the
room ; there followed a few more interchanges
of courtesies, then Kerinvean
ordered his drag, and drove off with his
charge.

CHAPTER IX.

HENCEFORTH.

As if a stream that wandered aimlessly
Had heard at last the murmur of the sea."

TTERINVEAN's driving was always
rapid, but that day the horses
seemed to feel their master's mood, and
they careered along unchecked, for the
pace suited Kerinvean. He found it
difficult to keep up one conversation while
his thoughts dwelt on another; but the
horses were too fleet for Iugha, to whom

it seemed sacrilege to pass such scenery in
haste.

"If we were not driving to Marie," she
said at length, " I would ask you to restrain
the impetuosity of those splendid
creatures. I have never seen anything so
wild as this glen before, and we seem to
be rushing through it."

Kerinvean smiled, and slackened the
pace a little. When they came in sight of
Yeurnish, the summit was covered with
a soft-white cloud, which very gradually
lifted, and showed the peak against the
blue sky, and then as gradually descended.

u That is the first time I ever saw
Yeurnish greet a new-comer so courteously,"
exclaimed Kerinvean. u Is he not a
noble old cavalier ?"

VOL. I. i

Oh ! yes," answered Ingha ; " and
what a welcome for me, and bow lovely
everything is !"

As they approached the road leading to
the house, Kerinvean lessened the speed
considerably, for there were such wide views
at every bend, and he liked to see the impression
they made on the young girl, whose
face was aglow with delighted surprise.
He, too, loved it all, but only as a Greek
would have done ; there were suggestions
enough of pasture for cattle, and sport
for man ; but his fondness for it was
different from Ruy's, different, too, from
Archie Campbell's, and yet the three men
loved Kerinvean as no other place under
Heaven could ever be loved by them.

The welcome that Iugha received was

truly warm enough to make a much more
formal person feel at home, and she was
charmed with the picturesque character of
the time-honoured house. The entrance
hall was filled with trophies of the chase,
suits of armour, old colours, and swords
and weapons which had been wielded by
Montgomeries, whose portraits looked
down in seemingly dismal patience from
the walls which her first glimpse disclosed.


The rooms appointed for Ingha's use
were in the oldest part of the house, from
the windows of which the finest views of
loch and hill were visible ; she saw that for
miles the low grounds were clearly defined
against the water in the afternoon sunlight,
and that there were ranges of hills, peak

i2

beyond peak, which she had not before
suspected could be seen from the Castle.

Her maid's chamber was adjoining, so
that she would have no fear during the
night in the old house whose legends she
would doubtless hear ere long : stories of
wraiths, white ladies, and illusions, that
had terror enough in them when recalled
in the gloom of night, alone, in the very
chambers these ghostly apparitions were
supposed to haunt.

There was rather more ceremony than
usual at dinner the evening of Inha's
arrival. Mr. Campbell and Archie had
been invited, and Kerinvcan introduced
them to Anglia, telling her the circle was
only perfect when their Tnvean friends
were in it.

Ingha was remarkably self-possessed,
though it was owing more to her utter
lack of vanity than to any other cause, so
there was no shyness between the young
people.

During the evening Miss Mackenzie
was asked to play or sing; going to the
piano, she said, in passing Ingha :

I will play some of our national musica
lament for one of my ancestors, in
fact, for the identical chief who brought
this jewel into our family." Whereupon
she indicated the famous buckle on
her scarf, which of course to-night, according
to custom, she wore on the arrival
of a stranger.

Oh ! yes, do," said Marie, who was
standing by, and who rather dreaded lest

a raid of the Mckenzie might prevent
the party from hearing Ingha sing,
and then you must ask Ingha for
music."

Miss Mackenzie was not the least disconcerted
; that chief would do for a future
entertainment. Miss di Garcelli was to make
a long visit, so she would not mind letting
her ancestors rest for to-night ; they were
all wondrously alert to spring from her
memory on the slightest provocation,
though some of them had been dead for
centuries.

"When Ingha's turn to sing came, she
played a simple prelude, and much surprised
all by beginning a Scotch ballad in
the purest of accents and in the mo
pathetic of voices, a rich, clear contralto

that followed the singer's will, and went
straight to the hearts of the listeners.

Her audience seemed spell-bound ; the
strains gained in pathos and tone, and the
mournful line,

In the salt, salt bree,"

she sang more slowly, and her voice was
expressive of a great agony of loss, which
the fathomless depths of ocean alone
could have pre-figured as being immeasurable
as the grief that prompted such a
wail.

There was no excitement visible on the
sweet, white face, as they all praised her
singing. She loved so well to do it, ay,
even as much as they to listen. Is it not
ever so with a gift from the gods ? There
is neither choice nor concealment possible,

the fountain has its source in Olympus,
and the stream can never be turned
aside.

Anon Kerinvean asked Ingha to sing
again, and said that he would like best
to hear another Scotch ballad.

Ingha began in a light manner, as if
relating a story, the familiar ballad
Castles in the Air," but ere she had
sung many lines the sadness came back
to her tones, and no one would have
thought it was the voice of a young and
happy girl, for the comprehension of sorrow
was there, the pathos that is in art
never acquirable and rarely inspired.

There was a picnic planned for the
morrow, and, while Archie was discussing
with Marie where he should join them

all, she looked at him inquiringly. He
smiled and said :

"Yes, you were right, she is very
beautiful, but not at all foreign-looking,
and her manners are as simple as a child's.
I was an incredulous fool not to believe

you."

Afterwards Archie tuned his violin, and
Marie and he played together, dreamily,
like two voices that never could reach
each other, but which went on w T ailing and
crooning over the love that made their
tones blend and then part, as one sighed
and the other moaned the yearning that
could never be satisfied.

And Miss Mackenzie dozed, ay, even
slept ; not with the profound wakefulness
of her ancestors, but gently, behind

a screen, where every night, towards
eleven o'clock, she in vain endeavoured to
keep awake, possibly by trying to count
her progenitors, but, if so, she always got
hopelessly vague and sleepy, and had to
yield to nature's demands.

I never heard anyone sing with a
purer Scotch accent than yours," said Ruy
to Ingha, who smiled and answered :

1 must tell Coyla what you say. I
could not have tried any but Scotch songs
to-night. I feel that I understand so
much better now the love your countrymen
have for their native land. I never
was so far north before, but I think the inspiration
of their romance and chivalry
must have all originated among these hills.
I am beginning, too, to comprehend the

patriotism which was always a marvel tome
before to-day."

To hear you sing, one would say you
had been born a Highland lassie," answered
Ruy. " You give the spirit of our
songs as well as the language. To me
their grief, though expressed only in a
little sorrowful love-song, is always part
of a national wail. We are a gloomy
people," he added, smiling, " but we have
followed so many causes that have been
failures."

"Yes, I know," responded Ingha; "but
your national sorrow is not despair as
ours was in Italy. Your hearts go up to
the tops of your hills, but ours live among
the vines far below the summits. We
call ourselves Republican because we are

idle, and, thinking we have no freedom,
we grow hopeless. You are industrious,
free, and truthful here. Ah ! I think I
should like to have been born in Scotland."

And so passed Ingha's first evening at
Kerinvean, and when it was over, reviewing
the new scenes and faces that had so
suddenly revealed themselves in her life,
she thought a fresh era had commenced,
and her spirit was strangely moved by its
enchantment.

And Euy ? Now that he had seen a
perfectly beautiful face, he wished more
than ever that his heart's desire might one
day be given to him. It was well he had
a patient spirit, for his present life required
it. There are no unexpectedly quick
results in the reclaiming of land, not, at

least, until the miracles of frost, shine, and
shower have in turn bestowed their benedicite
upon the earth, and Ruy was greatly interested
in many of these kinds of improvements
which he had originated. He was
fully alive to the magnitude of the accountability,
which the owner of such an estate as
Kerinvean ought to feel : Though never
presuming to judge his uncle's waste of
life, he held that such for himself would be
sin ; and, while he considered to possess a
few miles of moor, or hill, or wood would
be the grandest of all riches, he worked
hard to bring things into order, not thinking
so much of the fact that he, as heir,
would eventually reap the benefit, as that
the property and tenants had so long been
neglected.

At times Ruy found it difficult to persuade
Kerinvean to consent to his plans ;
often they were merely regarded as " eccentric
and sentimental." But Ruy's
ardour did not lessen, and he was easier to
drain, and till, and sow, to the utmost of
their capabilities, and beautiful use, all outlying
parts, so that the small farms might
yield their meed of food for the labour of
man.

Kerinvean, by turns, contradicted and
consented, and often ended an argument
by the remark :

"You would make a grand smash of
the old place, Ruy, if I were not here to
put on the break."

And so day by day Ruy gave his work
and thoughts uuqTiido;incrly to the task

meted out to him, with many a vague
dream of a different toil ; but neither pencil
nor chisel yet, save by stealth, and for a
few weeks more Kerinvean would still be
his guardian. And then ?

CHAPTER X.

THE DESTINATION OF THE MISTWRAITH.

*' Like swift and lovely dreams that walk the waves of
sleep."

Shelley.

3UY joined the breakfast party next
morning, after returning from a long
ride, and remarked that he bad called
before six o'clock at old Peters cottage,
and bad found preparations for the excursion
even at that early your.

These picnics were great occasions for

Peter ; he was usually the responsible person,
and would never yield a point of his
prerogative to anyone. When a rowing-boat
was used, Ruy was always stroke ;
but, if under sail, Ruy might work as hard
as he chose, and a suggestion from him as
to slackening a rope, taking in a reef, or
changing the tack, always met the response :

Why should ye fash wi' me in the
boat ?"

Ruy had himself to blame for humouring
the old man ; and he often recalled the
weary miles Peter had carried him over
moor and hill years ago, when his own
childish whims overcame better judgment,
and ingratitude had no place in Ruy
Montgomery's character.

Miss Mackenzie had also a certain de-vol.

I. K

gree of homage and popularity, and a picnic
rarely came to an end without giving
her opportunity for the recital of legends
of warfare, or for describing hereditary
feuds, among the scenes where they
had been all too frequent in ancient
days.

Peter had great respect for Miss Mac-kenzie,
and had once been communicative
enough about his judgment of her to Ruy
and Archie as to volunteer the opinion :

"I wadna say but she has the root of
the matter in her whatever."

Archie suggested, when out of Peter's
hearing :

If Peter means the root of the Mac-kenzie
genealogical tree, I can vouch for
her memory containing the roots, trunks,

-and branches of a whole Highland forest
of that growth."

The two girls strolled down to the loch
before the others, where they found Peter
surveying the Mistwraith, a taut and trim
little craft, a model of delicate lines. Her
crew, three hardy fellows in uniform of
white and blue, were making ready under
orders from their captain.

"This is Miss di Garcelli, a friend of
mine," said Marie. " We must give hera
good first impression of the glen today."


It's a pretty glen, my teddy, and yeare
welcome," ceremoniously responded
the old man, holding his bonnet in his
hand, and speaking as slowly as if he
were delivering a congratulatory address

k2

to a princess ; but bis words came faster
as be looked into Ingha's sweet face, and
saw the genuine interest upon it. " Ye'll
travel far or ye'll see a bonnier bit o'
water than I'll tak ye over the day.
Whiles it's sat here, but illa kind o r
weather gives its ain sort o' grandeur.
Miss Montgomery weel kens that."

And I am sure of it," said Ingha, with
a smile ; a lovelier smile than her mother's,
as the mysterious light of sunrise is ever
tenderer in its beauty than midday
glare.

Miss Mackenzie, Kerinvean, and Ruy
now joined them, accompanied by Ohm
a beautiful Eskimo dog of the smaller
breed, Ruy's constant companion.

The Chum was remarkable both for

wisdom and beauty ; his hair was very
long, and white, with black points; his
paws were perfectly white, as were his
breast and long, curled tail, but his nose
and eyes were black. His foot was fleet
and his scent was keen, while his service
was faithful and incorruptible. Chum was
incapable of demonstrative likings; he had
his preferences, but his character partook
of a reserve that was doubtless imitated,
for even when a young dog, which at this
period he was, there was little display of
the frolicsomeness common to youth.
Gentle and perfectly obedient, when allowed
to go free he had the instincts of a
savage animal, and surprised all judges
and gamekeepers by his hardy, unflagging
endurance. His history is indissolubly

connected with that of his master ; the
history of the one is that of the other,
for in all changes they were inseparable.


Ruy trusted Chum completely, and was
often touched by his devotion. The dog
never for a moment forgot his master. No
human being ever experiences more than
one absolutely perfect dog-friendship in a
lifetime  this was Ruy's  the trust and
love for one canine creature pre-figures, in
its limited capacity, another trust and lo
but this is dogged heterodoxy.

All were soon on board the Mist wraith,
and the oars plashed steadily under lee of
rocks rising sheer out of the water, high
above the boat.

At the head of the glen loomed Ben

More, and several lesser peaks, which now
shone pearly-tinted in the sun. All the
hills had a white sheen in the light, while
in the cloud-shadows they were richly
coloured, purple, crimson, and black, and
many of them were encircled by belts of
pine, and seemed to lie in a setting of dark
wood.

The course was devious : round by
quaint little rocky islands, and in and
out of sheltered bays, for glimpses of falls
that rushed down from the hills all fret
and foam, on whose banks grew ferns and
bracken, which reared themselves proudly
as if protecting the soft, dewy mosses
underneath, making wildernesses too intricate
for anyone but fairies.

Ingha was entranced at every fresh bend

or curve. Miss Mackenzie and Kerinvean
had a long argument about a legendary
engagement which was said to have taken
place in one of the passes they sighted :
this was an old subject of debate between
them, and, although Miss Mackenzie always
proved her point, Kerinvean never
failed to raise the subject when they were
in the neighbourhood which suggested
it.

Ruy was keenly enjoying his part of
the work, his fine, lithe form swaying regularly
to time, his face flushed with the
exercise and pleasure. Nature held nothing
grander for him than these hills ;
they were associated with historic reminiscences
which alone would have made
them sacred to him, but, beyond these

associations, their own varying beauty was
a daily wonder ; and, above all, their immoveable
serenity had schooled the disquiet
in his heart. Their perfect calm
enfolded his own spirit, and he was learning
that life holds in her store both
poverty and riches innumerable, often
dealing both in the same lap, and he was
experiencing too, the deep peace that lies
in the soul of nature, and which she bestows
with so great largesse that these paradoxes
seem merely childish problems to those
who are taught of her.

Did it enhance the scene to E>uy that a
kindred spirit looked out of eyes as questioning
as his own, for response ? Ingha's
face was not unheeded by Ruy, he had
never seen one so beautiful before.

When Ingha's gaze was abstracted by
the scenery, a look of utter satisfaction
came over it, but, when her attention was
recalled to conversation, the wistful expression
came back into her eyes, the
timid, shy depth that was but oue degree
from a look of brave and tender courage,
which, Ruy thought, a hero could recall
in dying for her sake.

Ruy was gentle in his ideas about
all women, but his feeling of reverence for
this girl sprang wholly from his intense
love of beauty, beauty which in Iugha di
Garcelli was both of soul and feature, the
countenance ever true to inward impulse
or emotion.

It was not strange that a boy of Ruy's
nature should be at once impressed by her,

amid scenes so conducive to the most
refined emotions of admiration and delight.


Eadan Faibhile was a well-chosen spot
for a picnic ; a little grassy knoll, on each,
side of which towered great walls of rock
that hid the hills beyond.

In front lay the beach, and a long
stretch of loch down to Ben More. The
high rocks were covered with purple and
scarlet bloom and climbing ivy; heather
filled every nook between the jutting
crags, and over their tops drooped ash
and willow-trees, and beyond, huge firs.

One great break there was in the background
of rocks, where the open gates of
a cathedral might have stood ; it led to the
grove of beeches on the higher ground,

where their massive trunks like columns
supported the fantastic arches, whose
groining and tracery no sculptor could
imitate.

For flooring there was softest moss,
and many a brilliant spot of colour, from
serene little clumps of heather, and joyous,
wavy groups of wild flowers, that grew
undisturbed in tangled, luxuriant profusion
; and over all, here and there, fluttered
a stray, faded leaf that had lost its
way, and could not find any niche
specially designed for it in this perfect
mosaic.

The tall brackens and ferns tried to
hide the temple's chrism, but the little
stream wimpled on, singing its own song
of praise to the God who had consecrated

it, and who had his holiest of holies even
here in this lonely sanctuary, where rarely
a human voice was heard.

CHAPTER XI.

A HIGHLAND Picnic.

a By every rill in every glen,
Merry elves their morris tracing
To aerial minstrelsy."

Scott.

A Archie and a stranger were waiting

at Rattan Faibliile, they had ridden

together from Craig More. Ruy looked

for a moment at Archie's companion, and

springing out of the boat ere the keel

grated on the stones, exclaimed gleefully
:

It's Gore Dallas Gore !"

Archie had found Mr. Douglas and his
nephew together when he returned the
night previous ; Sir Dallas was on his way
to Invereethin, but Archie had no difficulty
in persuading him to join the
picnic.

Sir Dallas Gore was an English baronet,
who had become master of himself and
twenty thousand a year when he attained
his majority three years ago. Wishing to
see active service, he did not meditate at
present leaving the army. Thoroughly
educated, intelligent, and of a sensible
disposition, Sir Dallas had found his
responsibility so far to consist in keeping

himself out of mischief, enough of which
is generally lying in wait for the inexperienced
owner of an unencumbered
estate.

Sir Dallas was greatly sought after
by a certain class, more than was quite
agreeable to himself, as he had sufficient
discrimination to know that, without
his rent roll, his good nature and
good looks would have commanded scant
courtesy.

The service each had to render for the
general comfort was inimical to ceremony.
Miss Mackenzie and the girls proceeded to
unpack a hamper, while the others made a
fire. Then a white cloth was spread under
the trees, and decorated with clusters of
rowan-berries, and, when all was prepared,

the party sat down in good humour to eat
the luncheon.

By this time, all the influences being conducive,
Miss Mackenzie burned to converse
upon the Gaelic associations of the spot,
but, alas ! the company was too intent on
the viands, and the strangers too much
delighted with the novelty of the entertainment,
to make any observation which
could act as suggestion for legend or
tracing of genealogical line.

At length Miss Mackenzie said,

11 1 believe, Sir Dallas, Mr. Douglas
claims kindred with the Black Douglas
?"

Yes," answered Sir Dallas, innocently
beguiled into a half confession of ignorance,
" I believe so, but I cannot inform

VOL. I. L

you why ; there were so many collateral
branches in that race, 1 am not sure that
he is a lineal descendant. The Craig-more
Douglass have always been of a
roving turn ; I don't think that they
have ever settled down long enough,
until this generation, to trace the line
themselves. "

You must know, Gore," said Kerin-
yean, " that all old Highland families retain
their genealogical descent in legends

and songs when the veritable line is lost,
and I understand this to be the case with
your uncle's ancestry and the link to the
Black Douglas, for it is quite a tradition
in these parts that he is allied. Have you
heard," added Kerinvean, thinking effectually
to change the subject, " if many

sportsmen are coming to Invereethin this
season ?"

ri I heard of several," answered Sir
Dallas, " but I understand Lady Kinaire
means to have a good many of her own
friends also."

Miss Mackenzie, nothing daunted by
the interlude, turned to Ingha, and
said :

You have no idea, my dear, how tenacious
all who have borne the name of
Douglas have ever been to be considered
lineally descended from their star of
chivalry, and there is a curious story told
of one of my ancestors, how he taunted a
Douglas for having nothing else of which
to boast, except a pretended kinship with
a chief who would not have owned him

hi

had he lived in the same generation.
Thereupon each of these men incited his
followers to fight, and Mackenzie killed
his rival, and afterwards married his
daughter."

The narrator here paused, naturally
expecting a remark from one of her
listeners, and Ingha put a question which
involved a long response.

Do you uot think," she asked, " that it
was very undutiful in the girl to marry her
father's enemy ?"

u Oh," answered Miss Mackenzie, " that
was not half so glaring a lack of filial
affection as her own son afterwards displayed
to herself."

The Mckenzie had now taken the field,
and, as Kerinvean knew that there would

probably ensue a waving of Mackenzie
tartan and Highland claymores till evening,
he rose, and, with the young
men, went off in the direction of the
rocks.

When Kerinvean returned, it was to
surest to Miss Mackenzie that he would
be glad to help her with tea. She immediately
rose, saying :

We were so much interested I had not
noticed how time was slipping away," and
added to Ingha, " There is a great deal
more to tell you of Kenneth Mackenzie,
but I won't forget to finish the story some
other day."

There is little fear of that," said
Kerinvean, smiling, as Miss Mathilda went
out of hearing. " I imagine you must have

proved a rare listener, Miss di Garcelli ;
our story-teller seems as much pleased as
it" she had been leading her gallant Mac-kenzie
heroes and all their forces through

CD

a review for your inspection."

"I assure you I have been greatly
interested," responded Ingha.

You must forgive her enthusiasm,"
said Kerinvean ; u she looks upon Scotland
as the centre of the universe ; ancient
Highlanders are gods to her, and their
traditions gospel."

I like her invulnerable belief in them
more than I can tell you, it is quite
infectious ; besides, it would not do any
good to spoil her illusions."

Ruy had joined them while Ingha was
speaking, and Kerinvean now went off to

help Miss Mackenzie, smiling at Ingha's
last remark.

Some illusions are harmless enough, "
said Ruy ; iC but do you think people are
fitted for the rough realities of life who
carry into the world a conviction that
their fellows are better and higher-minded
than they actually are ?"

"I don't understand much about rough
realities," answered Ingha, " but I think it
would not be possible to attain to anything
noble unless one had faith in things which
may be only illusions to others. For my
own part, I know the people who give
me the impression that they consider my
motives better than I know them to behave
more influence for good with me than
they who are unkind in their judgments.

You will call this a strange mode of regeneration,"
she added, smiling; " but
some natures require all sorts of helps and

incentives."

"It is a beautiful theory," answered
Huy ; " but I don't know that you will find
it act well on people with less principle
than you possess."

u If it did not seem the only way of
helping some, I would not hold it," she
answered ; " besides, it is so difficult to do
anything well, I am sure a person who is
honest with himself cannot have his work
praised, too freely. There is one thing
quite certain, Mr. Montgomery, there is
no illusion in this : I never saw anything
so utterly beautiful as the country here,
though there may be illusion in the

thought that because it is so lovely it will
surely be eternal."

But Nature has so many illusions," answered
Ruy ; u she is always promising
and holding out hope which we do not
realise, for when we compare the best art
works with her, we find how she lured
only to smile at the folly of her feeble
imitators.

Oh ! no, no," said Ingha, " she smiles
just the same as she always did ere we
began the task wherein we may have
failed. I think we can never see scorn in
her unless we have scorn in our own
thoughts, and we are sure to feel contempt
towards our labour, if it will not
bear the scrutiny which decides whether
we have followed some other teaching

snore closely than hers. Sometimes we
confuse God's art and human art, and
fancy we can aid the one or the other, but
we can only be taught by each ; they are
both independent of us."

I know Nature is, but oue often hears
of what great masters have done for their
art," said Ruy.

U I do not think if they were true
masters they would have cared to hear
their work so spoken of," returned
Ingha.

"Does it not seem, on a day like this,* 1
said Buy, after a pause, " as if the
world had been created merely for
beauty, as if it were all one great
shrine for the worshippers of the beautiful
?"

Some of the loveliest parts are unrecognized
then," responded Ingha, "for
that significance is only acknowledged by
the few who perpetuate such wondrous
loveliness as this around us. God seems
to have dedicated all the highest beauty
to them, for only they, and those for whom
they toil, are at one with Nature when
apart from her."

"And only as their sympathy and
comprehension are true can their labour
be good," said Ruy. "You interpret
Nature instinctively. I have been
listening all my life, and she has never
been so articulate to me as you make her."

I comprehend only her simple moods,"
answered Ingha. "I listen, too, but her
meanings are so deep."

So deep," responded Ruy, " that they
always seem symbols to me."

"Do you find it so?" asked Ingha.
Perhaps if you are ever separated from
her you will think it was Nature only who
spoke plainly, though with infinite purport.
It is the w r old's noise that jars in her
utterances, and sometimes deadens the
sound of them altogether, for we often goto
Art to be taught things in which she
cannot instruct us."

"What do you define as being taught
 by Art ?" asked Ruy.

Nothing except a mechanical utterance,
and the wisdom which results from
the experience of others who have laboured
in the same field. I don't think Art
can ever give an understanding of Nature,

though she can help the expression of all
that Nature alone can teach,"

Have you never felt," said Ruy, " that
Nature herself would be antagonistic to
you if you had no utterance, and that
even your great love for her would but
cause a yearning, and her riches would but
oppress your spirit ?"

I think that feeling could only be the
result of some power that was still dormant,"
answered Ingha. " I have no genius
for anything, but I think after some years
of labour I shall be able to make my voice
yield some service."

Ruy was surprised to hear her speak of
years of labour, as he regarded her already
as a priestess of song ; his knowledge as
yet was limited, though his studies had

begun with the Alpha and Omega of all
true art life. It was dawning on his spirit
that this dark-eyed, thoughtful maiden was
inspiration of noblest sort, but he asked
himself no questions about her. He accepted
most impressions without analyzing
their influence, as he looked for different
clouds and shadows with each new
sunrise ; and every revelation of natural
beauty went to enrich his experience all
unconsciously to himself.

Miss di Garcelli," said Archie, after tea,
as the group sat watching the shadows

lengthening over hill and water, " do you
know I have been rash enough to promise
that I would ask a favour from you for
another man ; and, though I know it is not
difficult to persuade you to act generously.

still he is hardly deserving of that
honour."

"What is it?" asked Ingha, laughing at
Archie's ceremony.

To make a short story long," answered
he, " this Dallas Gore, this audacious man
has had the impertinence to assert that he
never heard a countrywoman of yours sing
a Scotch song with a true accent ; which
proves two things, one of which is remarkably
clear : he has never heard you sing!
the second proposition is simply that the
said Dallas Gore is no judge of singing in
any language." Archie's mood was of the
old boyish days, and Sir Dallas enjoyed it
as heartily as the rest.

"Thanks, Flash," said he; "Flash" was
the Gore family name for Archie, Lady

Gore having given it to him when he was
quite a child, averring that he was so
quick and bright he always reminded her
of lightning. " Thanks, but I won't retain
you as my special pleader. It is quite
true, Miss chi Garcelli, that I have never
heard good Scotch ballads since my
mother's voice sang them to me in my
childhood."

She was like all the Douglass, Sir
Dallas, very musical," said Miss Mackenzie ;
their genius for music can be traced back
to Fergus Douglas's time. His men refused
to row across the loch in the dark to surprise
the Glen Thule Mckenzie unless
their piper was playing in the bows of the
boat; and, though he tried to play softly,
the pipes wakened our people, and the

old clan was ready for the Douglas raid
on their landing."

"Indeed," answered Sir Dallas, "it was
mean in Master Fergus to take advantage
of night in that way, and he deserved the
routing which I hope he got ; but, Miss
di Garcelli, won't you sing something to
make us more forgiving towards this
blundering, old, far-away relative of
mine r

Ingha, who was sitting by Marie, and
stroking Chum, who permitted this liberty,
though he rarely gave anyone but his
master the opportunity of ever attempting
it, said she would be very glad to
sing.

The young men were stretched on the
ground. Archie, with Ins fair face and

VOL. I. m

rings of brown hair, which, cut as close
as possible, would still be curly, his dark
blue eyes and fearless expression always
making a manly picture. Then Dallas
Gore's bronzed face and soldier-like figure
were in no way less attractive. And Ruy,
with his calm, grave eyes and fine, lithe
form, made the trio perfect. Kerinvean
was seated beside Miss Mackenzie, genial
and stalwart, a delightful subject for her
imagination to put some hundreds of years
back into the glorious times when Kerin-
yean, with his physical courage and manly
strength, might have been a hero ! Miss
Mackenzie sat quietly knitting, her thoughts
still With her valiant ancestors, doubtless
dreaming of how, had she lived in their
times, she would have knitted stockings for

these brave, bare-legged worthies, whose
wooing were done, and battles fought,
stockingless and unshod.

The boat was moored on the beach,
while Peter hurried about, calculating the
chances of collision with one of the
herring-smacks, if the moon did not
appear.

Marie told Ingha to choose her own
song, and, hesitating but a moment, she
began in a clear, soft voice, that had
neither break nor want in its self-sustaining
power, that most sad of all Burns's

songs,

Ye banks and braes and streams around
The Castle o' Montsro-merie."

" v

Her voice rose in pathetic fulness as
verse after verse she sang to the end.

m 2

Her listeners felt the wild hopelessness of
the early love, how it had made everything
seen by the beloved, utterly sacred ; and
all the fruitless sorrow of the plaintive
words, which could in no way fathom the
depths of the loss, save by comparing the
vacant dreariness of the present with the
rapture of the past, the hours that drag
so sullenly with the hours that once were
winged !

Xo one spoke for a few moments after
Ingha's voice died away, the stillness was
broken only by the lapping of wavelets on
the narrow beach. And then Sir Dallas
thanked her, and added :

I never heard singing in auy language
like that."

Ingha listened quite simply as they all

praised her song, as simply as if they were
speaking of some one else, and then she
told them the reason she understood the
Scotch so well.

My nurse, who is now my maid, is a
Scotchman ; Mistress Gilroy taught me
years ago the accent and also the poetry
of the language."

Ruy led Ingha down to the boat, and
ere entering it they turned for a last look
at the cove. The moon had suddenly shot
a thousand silver arrows down into the
little temple ; a pale light illumined it
throughout, white and shining on the
great trunks of the stately beeches, and
down among the bracken and moss all
was gleaming and shadowy.

The fairies will take possession directly,"

said Ingha, smiling, " and will hold
a grand court to condemn to their magical
vengeance all the idle people who have
intruded into their kingdom to-daj, and
have ruffled enough of their possessions
to take them a whole week to put right.
I wish we could hear them congratulating
each other on their own industry, compared
with the idleness of pleasure-seeking
humanity."

You need not fear their censure," said
Ruy. " You haven't been idle to-day ;
you have been instructing and suggesting
in more ways than one."

Oh ! then they will call me a prosy
person," answered Ingha, laughing, "and
anathematize me more fiercely than anyone
else."

No, our fairies won't do that," said
Ruy. " Since you believe in them so
implicitly, you will be precious in their
sight."

u Archie," asked Marie, " is your father
bearing it well ?"

I hardly know, Marie," he answered,
as he walked slowly by her side down
to the boat. u I think he will get over it
by-and-by. It is just like you to bethinking
of my troubles, though, heaven
forgive me ! I had almost forgotten them
myself to-day ; but no wonder  we were
all so happy !"

u And why should we not be happy
when we can, Archie ?" she asked,
gently.

Because sometimes it is not exactly

honest to others," answered he, helping
her into the boat.

Archie and Sir Dallas said good-bye, the
latter having first promised Kerinvean to
make his stay at Invereethin short, in
order to pay a long-promised visit to the
Castle.

Contrary to Peter's fears, the loch was
all lighted by the moon, and on every
wavelet there was a quivering silver beam,
save where the shadow of dark rocks
made the waters black. And so Incrha's
first Highland picnic ended, though the
memory of the beauty and sweetness of
that day was to linger in more than one
life like the radiant images of an unforgotten
dream.

Chapter XII.

THE PREDICTIONS OP LADY KINA1RE AND
MISTRESS Milroy.

u . . Here's fine revolution,
An we had the trick to see 't. M

Shakespeare.

TNVEREETHIN had come into Lord
Kinaire's possession on the death
of his uncle several years ago. The
house, a great, old-fashioned building, was
situated about ten miles from Kerinvean,
and was, at this time, filled with a company

whom various reasons bad brought
together.

Invereethiu had always had the name of
being a splendid place for sport, so some
of the guests had come for deer-stalking
and others for salmon-fishing ; and
there were ladies euougli to justify Keriu-
yean in calling" the gathering " half Belgravia."


It was not a fast house, nor was it ever
called slow. The Kinaires were said to
be inimitable for taste, though a character
for that quality is easily acquired among the
ignorant, for either one's self or one's
house, with a good income and average
practical skill in the choice of tradespeople.


Lady Kinaire was popular both for her

wit and good nature, and for a certain
conformity in ber manners and doings to
acknowledged standards, which in English
society, is deemed irreproachable. Young
men liked to be patronised by her, for she
gave pleasant parties, where the best
people were sure to be met  at least, so
thought the self-congratulatory ones ; but,
withal, Lady Kinaire had a warm heart
and a generous mind. She hated scandal,
but often screened her tenderness of disposition
by quoting apt scraps of worldly
wisdom ; the hopes and interests of her
friends found in her a quick sympathy,
and few women gave themselves up so
readily to the causes of the distressed, and
no one was more skilful in devising how toward
off trouble, or to bravely meet it

when it became inevitable, than Kathleen,
Lady Kinaire.

The Marchesa di Garcelli and Lady
Kinaire had always stood by each other,
and were firm friends ; indeed, some went
so far as to say that Kathleen Tight, the
niece of a poor, Irish peer, would never
have married, in her first season, the rich
Lord Kinaire unless his cousin, the clever
Marchesa di Garcelli, bad arranged the
alliance ; but there are always people who
say things of this kind about marriages
which they themselves have not prognosticated,
as if matrimony were a game to be
arranged for the players, who had to combat
for rewards, to be assigned bv the
self-constituted umpires.

For her part Lady Kinaire might have

considered that her youth, beauty, bright,
hopeful nature, and ancient lineage, were
quite equal exchanges for a husband
double her age, however rich and indulgent.
Lord Kinaire was certainly both ;
though she was prodigal she was never
exacting, and they lived on remarkably
good terms with each other, there existing
a sincere mutual respect, and both were
greatly attached to their only child, a boy
of five years ; but beyond this, the cares
of matrimony did not weigh heavily on
either.

The night of the Marchesa's arrival
at Invereethin, Lady Kinaire went to her
friend's room, after her other guests had
dispersed.

My dear Honoria, I thought I should

never get free. I have wanted to talk to
you all evening," she said.

What a number of guests you have,
Kathleen. I did not expect to meet half
so many. How did you overcome Kin-case's
scruples about Barton and the
Sidney? And tell me who was the little
fat man who talked so incessantly at
dinner ? What a different looking person
his wife is P

Firstly, you must know the odd pair
leave tomorrow." answered Lady Kinaire.
"But what has been the matter with you
to-night, Honoria ? I never saw you look
so dull."

There was scant ceremony between these
two ; they were allies, and both were too
handsome to feel any rivalship. It would

have been difficult to say which was the
more beautiful ; for though Lady Kinaire
had a less commanding figure, there was an
honest look in her bright face, which, on
the whole, was more expressive of dignity
than all the brilliant affectation of her
friend.

I fear," she added, kindly, " you were
dreadfully bored, my clear."

No, indeed, I vas very much
amused. Now, Kathleen, tell me about
your new acquaintances, and how many

more are coming."

Lady Kinaire seated herself on a couch
beside her friend.

"No one this week, except Sir Dallas
Gore, and I thought it would be such a
splendid idea for him to meet Ingha ; that

was before I knew you had other plans for
her."

Don't go on so fast, Kathleen," interrupted
the Marchesa. u Ingha has promised
the Montgomeries a long visit. How
did you manage to get Kinaire to
consent to have such a miscellaneous
party ?"

Indirectly through the little fat pomposity
about whom you were asking. He
is a City Magnate, and one of the railway
members in the House. His name is Sir
Dumple Brigworth, and ancestors he has
none. However, he is harmless enough,
though you would be amused if you knew
the trouble he has caused me. * All's well
that ends well !' I am also indebted to
him  indirectly, of course  for the sapphires

; Kinaire has written to order them
to be sent here."

"Do explain, Kathleen," said the Marchesa
; " you are exciting my curiosity and
giving me no satisfaction."

Well," responded her friend, " this is
how it came about : Kinaire one day surprised
me by asking if I would mind calling
on Lady Brigworth, to whom he had
been introduced at her husband's office in
Dark Lane. I inquired if she lived there,
and Kinaire, inclined to be this lady's champion,
said she was a dutiful wife, who drove
to the City to take her husband home from
his office, and, if he were not ready, waited
till his business was completed, and that
was where he had met her. I did not
refuse Kinaire's request, but I wanted a

VOL. I. N

favour myself, and I thought I would let
my plans mature in my little Irish head,
while his ardour for the Brigworths cooled.
The next day, however, Kinaire
actually again asked me to go and do the
civil thing to his new acquaintances, and
told me, if I would invite them here fora
week, he would give me permission
to have anyone I liked here this autumn.
So I went to their house in Lancaster
Gate, and found Lady Brigworth pretty,
well-dressed, and doing the fine lady
to perfection, but you may imagine how
chagrined I was to recognise in her no
other than my old fascinating governess,
Miss Evan. I was equal to the situation,
my dear, and greeted her by saying
that, as my husband had had the pleasure

of meeting her, I thought I might presume,
for the sake of old times, to call on
her ; and, according to my instructions, I
invited them here."

But I don't see anv connection between
them and the sapphires," said the
Marchesa.

Oh ! Kinaire is making a good thing
out of some business he and Sir Dam-pie
have arranged; a directorship I
think he called it. He tells me I don't
understand business, because I cannot myself
make out why I am to have the sapphires
when he will only have to give
his name. However, Kinaire says it is
quite common for noblemen to do this sort
of thing, but that they rarely spend the
half of the profits on jewels for their

n2

wives. I don't trouble myself to understand
since I am having so much of my
own way through merely entertaining
these people a few days. Now I am
sure you are quite tired of my gossip.
Give me all your news. What
did you think of your old love, Kerin-
yean r

I don't exactly know what I thought,
Kathleen," answered the Marchesa, somewhat
wearily.

'don't you consider him handsomer
than ever ?" persisted Lady Kinaire.

Oh ! yes, he is very handsome  quite
a fine looking man."

Surely you are not in love with him
again, Honoris ?" pressed the little Irish
lady.

Oh ! for that matter, perhaps I have
never been out of love with him, but
by this time he must be invulnerable."


Invulnerable to you ! You are not
humble enough to think that, Honoria ;
but, tell me, would you care to marry

again r

"He has not asked me yet, Kathleen,"
answered the Marchesa, demurely.


Well, this is too amusing, as if you
were not perfectly sure of him after he has
remained a bachelor for your sake all
these years."

If I thought so  if it were so," said
the Marchesa, slowly, " such devotion
would deserve reward."

"Nonsense, my dear; that sort of thing
is quite exploded ; if he has been such a
fool, it is no reason why you should be
another. If you go on in this mood you
will soon persuade yourself that you have
remained a widow for his sake. Did
Kerinvean's nephew come with him to
Kilane ?"

No ; what kind of a boy is he ?"
"Boy, indeed !" said Lady Kinaire, " he
is as much a man as his uncle, and quite as
distinguished looking, though Kinaire says
not so genial, and as proud as all his
ancestors put together. I have not met
him often, for they do not go out much ;
but I always found Roderigue Montgomery
very agreeable, and not the least
proud."

Then he is grown up ?" asked the
Marchesa.

Of course he is, and looks much
older than his age, which, I believe, is
only twenty. If you marry his uncle,
Honoria, it will make him small enough,
poor fellow ! after having alway r s been
treated as the heir to Kerinvean."

"I did not say I was going to marry
his uncle, Kathleen ; but I think I have
been very foolish in letting Ingha go
where there is a young man of
the kind you describe. She is such a
very impressionable child."

It will be unfortunate if you have
designs for yourself on the uncle. I would
have told you, only I thought you knew,
and that this might be one of your ideas

about reparation ; you are so desperately
sentimental, my dear, I never attack you
on a point of this sort. I am somewhat
of a match-maker myself, and I like
Roderigue Montgomery ; besides, I was
in the heat of the Dumple Brigworth
warfare when you wrote to tell me Ingha
was going to Kerinvean. If you like, I
will ask the Montgomeries here, and Ingha
also ?"

Thanks, Kathleen, but I promised to
go to Kerinvean, and intended requesting
you to drive me over."

u Certainly I will, Honoria, some day
next week ; but, as we are both tired tonight,
we would do well to seek our
slumbers."

They rose, kissed each other, and as

Lady Kinaire walked towards the door,
she hummed in a low, sweet voice,

Oh ! there's nothing half so sweet in life,
As Love's young dream !"

Then she turned round and said
archly :

Tommy Moore was right, my dear,
was he not ? But we dream and waken
so often, we are apt to forget whose was
the ' form ' which ' first love traced.' Goodnight,
Honoria."

The Marchesa and Lady Kinaire went
the following week to Kerinvean. They
were both very charming, and everyone
was intent to do honour to the Marchesa
for Ingha's sake. Miss Mackenzie almost
forgot her chiefs and clans for the day,

and there was a good deal of genial conversation
at luncheon.

1 should like beyond anything,"
said the Marchesa to Ruy, in a tone
which all present could hear, " to have
a day's quiet fishing in your river ; it is
so long since I held a rod, I am ashamed
to go out with the experts at ."


In the old times she and Kerinvean
were wont to fish together on her uncle's
river, and he had often ridden over
in time for breakfast, to have a long
day's sport with his beloved. Kerinvean
remembered all this while she spoke, but
he could not guess what her thoughts
were.

You could have a day of our pools

quite to yourself, Marchesa," said he. " Are
they in good trim, Ruy ?"

I never found them better," answered
Buy.

"You must not make them too tempting,"
she said, smiling, and addressing Ruelle
I shall not be able to resist. Kathleen,
will you let me come here for a day
at the river ?"

11 Certainly, my dear," answered her
friend ; " but the fishers go out early here.
You would need to come the evening
before."

"Pray do," said Marie, "and then you
will give us advice about Ruy's birthday.
We want to devise some kind
of entertainment for his coming of
age."

If you will come and help us, Marchesss,"
said Kerinveau, " we will put the
whole house at your disposal. I want to
have a ball. Gore has promised to be
here soon, and you might come together.
I should be delighted to drive over to
Invereethin for you both."

Thank you sincerely," she said, smiling
in her most bewitching manner. " You
are all too good."

Ingha was silent.

After luncheon Kerinvean proposed that
they should all go down and look at the
river.

Shall you mind nry coming here, Kerin-
yean ?" asked the Marchesa, walking by
his side, looking demurely on the ground ;
then she turned her face suddenly, adding,

in a tone that sounded as if she
felt how great a sinner she was, though
her bright eyes contradicted her penitence,
" Is your forgiveness perfect
enough r"

Why do you ask such a strange question
? There is but one way in which you
could use that word rightly," said her
humble dupe.

How? I do not understand," she said.

To bestow it ; but you would not have
come here to-day if you had not forgiven
me for all the past."

Miss Mackenzie said truly when speaking
of the Montgomery family, that
all the women of the house were beautiful,
and the men were ever chivalrous."


"Well, my dear," said Lady Kinaire, as
with a switch of her dainty whip she challenged
her ponies to trot their fleetest
homewards, " I hope you are satisfied with
your lover ; he is as handsome as ever,
and the castle is charming, nothing Brig-worthy
about either of them. When do
you intend to take possession ?"

"Not till I am asked, Kathleen," answered
the Marchesa.

Dear Honoria," said her friend, smiling,
I would never have thought that the
mere asking would stand between you aud
any object you had fixed your mind upon ;
but I would have you beware of interfering
with somebody else's hopes."

'whose do you mean?"

Ingha's," answered Lady Kinaire ; " she

is young and very attractive, so is Ruy
Montgomery ; if they are not already in
love, they would think themselves so if
you parted them. A perplexing complication
will certainly ensue if you are serious,
but I cannot think you are, for, although
ambitious, you have already refused a
duke for the sake of remaining free. Our
sainted friend il Marchese was generous to
you, Honoria : would you gain anything by
interfering with Ingha ?"

Her preference for Mr. Montgomery
is merely in your imagination, Kathleen,
and you will make me jealous of my own
child; already, since 1 came, you have
given her two husbands, and you object tome
showing mere civility to my own first
love."

Romantic folly, Honoria," said her
friend ; " it is all very well for Tommy
Moore and school-girls, but it is never
heard of in the world now-a-days ; however,
do as you like, dear!"

As if she ever did otherwise !

That same night, Mistress Gilroy was in
attendance on her young charge when
Tngha said,

"Coyla, mother is coming to stay
here."

"When will she come?" asked Mistress
Gilroy.

"Very soon, I believe. I wonder if she
will stay long ; it won't be quite the same
when mother is here," went on the young
girl, dreamily.

Mistress Gilroy made no response, but

her face wore a grave look, for she knew
the episode in the Marchesa's life which
concerned Kerinvean, and she was also
aware that Ingha was ignorant of it, and
many years of patient study had familiarised
her with the fickleness of the Marchesa's
nature.

And Mistress Gilroy sat at the window
of her own room long after Ingha was
asleep, looking wistfully down the loch,
as if her gaze could reach the infinite
sea where lay her dead, and saying
softly some words that sounded like a
prayer :

Oh ! my bonnie bairn, if only I
might suffer for her ! ' Will mother stay
long ?' she said, and I could but think she
was coming to be always here. If my

vol. i. o

bairn loves the young laird it will be dree,
dree, for she will have to bear the pain ;
her mother could not do it even to save
her own child's heart from breaking.
Father in heaven ! Thou hast taken my
heart's love to Thyself, let me suffer for
the bairn, and give me the right to call her
mine, through pain, if needs be, or lift the
clouds from off us all, if it be Thy gracious
will, Father in heaven !"

CHAPTER XIII.

INGHA.

. . . . No man dare look on her his thoughts being
base ;
Nay, but men say even more than I have said 
No man could think base thoughts that looked on
her."

TNGHA DI GARCELLI's girlhood had
been passed under rarely advantageous
influences for developing a vivid and
poetical imagination. The Marchesa's
restless and fanciful disposition had imo

2

pellet her to go from place to place,
seeking new occupations and fresh excitements,
and she was always accompanied
by her daughter. It suited her love of
display to travel like a princess, and her
fortune permitted the necessary expenditure.


Mistress Gilroy, who was responsible
for Ingha's welfare, was rarely absent
from her charge, except when her governess
or masters monopolized the girl's
time.

In all Ingha's memories of foreign
lands there was mingled the tenderness of
Mistress Gilroy. In the Palazzo at Venice
she had been hushed to sleep nightly by
Coyla's songs, and for accompaniment
there was the monotone of the tide as it

lapped against the foundations of the
building ; and, in the intervals, she heard
the refrains of the gondoliers' choruses
of Italia, love, and death. In the lone
chapelle of great cathedrals, Coyla and
Ingha had often listened for hours to the
organ's symphonies and to the anthems
of the priests ; but as the music swelled,
and Coyla's face grew more patient, the
little head would lean on the nurse's
shoulder and she would ask strange questions,
which she thought Coyla alone could
answer, concerning the mystical rites she
witnessed.

Many faces and forms, which never had
other life than brush or chisel had given
to them, moved dream-like in Ingha's
memories, for she had already seen some

of the greatest works of art in Europe.
Her observation had been free ; though
her governess had told her for what certain
pictures and statues were remarkable,
she readily discerned between art jargon
and true appreciation, and preferred always
the company of Mistress Gilroy,
whose unobtrusive silence did not mar
the delight of a beautiful impression.

The Marchesa had never left Ingha save
under the care of this devoted follower ;
in her impulsive way she was fond of her
daughter, though she could not quite
understand a nature the opposite of her
own, in its honest, unaffected genuineness.
She comforted her doubts with the hope
that experience would modify some of the
strangeness of India's ideas, and thought

that time would curb the overflow of imaginative
enthusiasm which made, in her
opinion, a girl's speech always remarkable
in society. Alas ! for the lack of it
there !

Ingha's perception was too truthful, asher
discernment was too clear, to allow
her to think, because her sympathies were
all keenly alert to the influences of nature
and art, that she had any great creative
faculty, but already she realized how
much there was for her to accomplish, in
developing the power she possessed, that
anon she might inspire, and understand
the genius of others. It seemed to her
that life teemed with opportunity for occupation
and interest.

Ingha loved the drama almost as much

as music, and sometimes confessed that,
had she needed to earn her livelihood, it
must have been as an actress. Her quick
comprehension of emotion ; her power of
putting herself in the scenes she imagined,
and of realizing the feelings of those who
moved in them ; her apprehension of silent
motives ; her natural eloquence, combined
with conscious strength of will, and desire
for noble action, made persuasion and
conviction natural to her. Added to these
qualities was a love of influence which ever
has a place in the minds of those who are
often designated  ah, me ! that it should
ever be in derision !  romantic and sentimental.


But now her voice was her principal
study, as it was in reality her greater

gift. Loving music with an intelligent
appreciation, and possessing a rare ear and
surprising quickness of acquirement, she
did not intend that one iota of her power
should be useless through idleness. She
knew already that labour evokes truth in
all studies, and in her art she was learning
many things which were not taught by
the schools.

Ingha had been but a few days at Kerin-
yean ere the young people were quite
familiar with each other's tastes and dispositions.
Ruy and Ingha were one evening
standing at an oriel window in the gallery
watching the moon rise through the fir-trees.
Every cloud had a magical light
on it of which no canvas has ever shown
the radiance, ere the moon glided clear of

them all, and shone full and round high
up in the sky. Over the tops of the firs
she sailed, lighting their dusky branch
and, when she arrived at her zenith of
beauty, she seemed to be serenely watching
all the transformation scene she had
made on the earth beneath.

I don't wonder now." said Ingha,
that Coy la always told me, when we
looked at the moon rise in Italy, that it
never seemed so lovely to her as among
her own hills ; for, when I asked the
reason, she said there was no sadness in
the skies there, and the trees were not so
grand as her own gloomy pines. I thought
it was the sadness of her own lot which
she felt then, but I understand what she
meant now. The colours are not so vivid

here, but there are tears in everything.
Mr. Montgomery, I think Scotland more
than Italy ought to be the land of
art''

Perhaps it will one day," answered
Buy, u many centuries hence ; but you
have had the past for guide ; comparatively
we are only just civilized. In literature
Scotland can compete with any country,
but she is only dow beginning to care for
pictorial art. Already there are some earnest
followers, but there is no art history."

Have you ever thought of art as a
vocation ?" asked Ingha, simply. " I have
seen some of your sketches, but do you
not paint ?"

Ruy explained to her that he was still
iu his uncle's guardianship, and also the

nature of Kerinvean's aversion to his

choice ; and he went on :

lt I have never painted yet, for, when I

begin to model, all these and other years

of practice in pencil work will only make

a beginning."

Then it is sculpture you would
choose ?"

Oh ! yes, I have never thought of anything
else," answered Ruy, involuntarily
confessing the dream of his life. ci Sculpture
seems to be in itself the most perfect
of all the arts; painting requires its aid,
but sculpture is only degraded when she
borrows from colour. Besides, sculpture
essentially represents soul-beauty, and
appeals straight to the mind, while
painting is sensuous : these are not my

reasons for choosing sculpture ; I believe

it is instinctive with me to do so, for I

never remember having any doubts on the
subject."

But you will paint also ; some have
said that sculpture is only a higher and
more intellectual form of painting, and I
think the power for both is very nearly
allied in him who has genius for either.
Long ago in Italy I had the impression
that painters alone could be sculptors, and
that only they who had proved themselves
masters on canvas dare ever touch the
stern, white marble. Ah ! you must paint,
if you want to represent the beauty here ;
you cannot sculpture rocks and hills."

No," answered Ruy, smiling, " but
one can sculpture the human beauty,

that would never Lave been so great save
for the love of these same rocks and
hills."

He was thinking at that moment how
statuesque was her own fair face in the
pale moonlight, and how transfigured it
became as she gazed on the grandeur she
loved so well ; beautiful her face always
was, but unspeakably so when it was
illumined by the thoughts which Nature
suggested, and these thoughts were now
giving a permanent expression of glad
serenity and ineffable tenderness which
Ruy knew would be an immortal wonder
could it be fitly expressed in art.

The day before the Marchesa's arrival,
Euy and Ingha had lingered by the river
after the others had returned home. It

was a glorious evening, and they sat on the

banks listening to the water, garrulous

and hurrying as ever.

Mr. Montgomery," said Ingha, at

length, " I imagine you are not much

interested in all the preparations to do you

honour; I am anticipating quite joyfully

my first ball, and you seem to wish your

birthday anniversary over."

I am much interested, I assure you,"

answered Ruy, smiling, " and I shall enjoy

the games and fun as much as anyone ; but

you must acknowledge that it is somewhat

an equivocal cause for congratulation, to

be the hero of the day when one has done

nothing to merit it, when mere accident of

birth has made one heir to a place like

this : I should not love Kerinvean one whit

less, if that same accident had occurred to

some one else. The only Montgomery

hero of this generation was my father, and

yet I shall be more congratulated for my

relationship to my uncle, than for being his
son."

"But," said Ingha, "perhaps one of the
reasons why you are a favourite with the
people, is partly because of their affection
for your father's memory."

I hope so," answered Ruy ; "but I cannot
see much cause for rejoicing when I
think how slight is my title to heirship, so
small a thing might annul it, and my life
has not prepared me to work for
bread."

But 1 think your future should be full
of hope," said the enthusiastic girl.

Even were you separated from the life
here, you would have your vivid memories
of it, as well as your creative faculty,
which together would give you Keriavean
in may a form."

Not if the gains from them were my
only means of support. I should lose the
vividness you speak of in striving to
create what would be most remunerative.
Do you not agree with me, that to follow
art honestly is incompatible with working
for subsistence ? I think if one finds a
way to make money in art, before almost
a life-time of its teaching and study, it is
done at the cost of loss of possible ultimate
power in that art. Unless genius be almost
transcendent, it cannot attain its full
development with absolute poverty for

vol. i. P

daily comrade. One must live, and the
crust is a daily necessity and lodging a
nightly want, and are facts that cannot begot
over once and for all, but are continually
present, enfeebling the power and
thrusting aside all promptings that are not
trade-born ; so the imaginative faculty
gradually becomes crushed. I am certain
I should be mercenary if I were hungry
and sleepy. You will think I am looking
at life bitterly, but facts for one are possible
facts for all. ' ;

Are these what you mean by rough
realities?" asked Inha, smiling.

"Very rough ones," answered Ruy; "but
we must not think of them any more tonight
: it seems too much like benediction
here for railing."

And they remained silent again,
while the river sang and sang till
its rush seemed to be gradually receding a
long way from them, and at length became
like the hum of a distant city, where the
wheels rolled incessantly through the
streets ; now loud, now soft, were the ebb
and flow of the confused, far-off echoing
to which they involuntarily listened. Even
that anon died down to a solemn pause,
and all the wheels were stilled ; and the
silence was one of the rare moments in
life when the joy of peace is perfect, without
human effort, simple receptivity being
all the need of the hour. But the river
took courage again in a returning wave
of sound, and sped merrily over the
rocks.

p 2

Strangely inexplicable is that influence
in Nature which seems connected with
Time itself, and lures us so utterly that
we forget all interest which a moment before
occupied our minds, and lose in an
indescribable abstraction the sensible knowledge
of that which invokes our spirits. And
when we come back to conscious thought 
from whence, who knows ?  we appear to
have been absent from our surroundings
an eternity, instead of a few brief moments
; and it is ever impossible to belies
that in the pause, when this potent spell
was on us, the rush of sound was oroiuo;
on the same, and that the memories, which
w r ere borne like a flood into our mind
were but reminiscences of past hours in
our lives, instead of vague hint of

experiences in a bygone existence which
we cannot recall.

The river flowed on, heedless as ever,
past the nodding rushes and drooping
ash-trees, where it was too dark for the
stream to see the berries, so it did not
gather their scarlet clusters, but took
the trees themselves as masses to fringe
its borders, and hurried away down to
where the dark pines stood like sentinels of
the ages ; and it went softly by them, as if
it knew these ancient monarchs had lived
through the glory and decadence, and on
into utter forgetfulness of many an earthly
power, and were waiting for a new order
of things. They could afford to wait,
even for Eternity itself, since their strength
and endurance only increased as the centuries
rolled on.

One glittering star peered out of the
pale blue overhead, and, when she saw it,
Incrha said :

That star has come to remind us of
our promise to follow the others soon, and
Ooyla will be wondering why I have not
returned to dress for dinner."

The twilights are long here, and there
will be a myriad stars presently, and Coyla
is very patient," answered Euy ; " so will
you sing one song for the stars and me before
we go ?"

"Yes, for you, but not for the stars ;
they have the river and birds to sing for
them," said Ingha. "Do you know
little ballad about ' the king wanting men,
and I for one must go ' ? It has a haunting
little refrain, of which I warn you."

M No, I have never beard it, but I'll
chance the effect if you will but sing it,"
said Ruy, wishing he might never be
haunted by more unwelcome memories
than the echoes of her voice. The sweet,
sad air did so impress itself upon him that
he often found himself involuntarily humming
or whistling it, though he never
asked her to repeat it.

Ingha rose a few 7 moments afterwards,
thereby very much gratifying innumerable
birds, who, having ended their business
for the day, had been trying to sleep, when
her voice disturbed them into jealous
listening. Anyone watching might have
seen their little heads peering shyly over
the tops of their nests and between the
leaves, with surprise in their little bright

eyes ; for strange indeed, they deemed it,
that anyone should venture there with
rivalling power. They were content enough
when they found it was merely the voice
of a peregrinating human being ; and soon
there were no sounds in the woods save
the hooting of the owls and the river's
nightly lullaby.

CHAPTER XIV.

I FEEL NO PENITENCE, MY LIFE IS LOVE."
I feel no penitence, my life is love."

TTERINVEAN and Marie went over
to Invereethin to assure Lady
Kinaire of a welcome for all her guests at
the ball on the thirtieth, the anniversary
of Ruy's birth. The Marchesa and Sir
Dallas returned with them to the Castle.

Sir Dallas Gore had not seen Marie
since her childhood until the day they had

met at Rattan Fribble, and he was very
eager to see her again.

Marie had now to assume the position
of hostess, Miss Mackenzie insisting on
retiring into the background., telling
Marie that many Montgomery women
had been married ere they were her age,
and that it added to the dignity of a house
when the lady at its head bore its own
name.

The Marchesa's appearance the first
evening was superb and her conversation
brilliant; being Kerinvean's guest, she
occupied his attention almost exclusively,
although she often addressed the entire
party, assuming with apparent unconsciousness
that she was the chief attraction.

In conversation with Archie, Sir Dallas

mentioned the death of Lord Kinaire's
stag-hound "Fury;" the Marchesa, overhearing
him, took up the subject in a tone
to which uo one could avoid listening.

Did }ou not hear of it here ?" she asked,
generally. "It occurred the night before
the Dumple Brigworths left Invereethin.
Lady Kinaire had left me about a quarter
of an hour, and mv maid had crone to bed,
when I heard a piteous moaning out of
doors, and, meaning to look out of a staircase
window for the cause, I opened my
door. You must know that wing of the
house contains no other rooms save the
Kinaire's private apartments. I saw a
light and a figure at the end of the lobby,
and imagine my surprise on encountering Sir
Dumple Brig worth ! When he caught sight

of me  I wore a white dressing-gown  down
dropped his candle, and, turning round, he
ran as fast as his old limbs could carry
him. I heard doors open and shut with
terrific banging, and a shouting ensued
quite indescribable. Lady Kinaire had
been alarmed, and she explained that Sir
Dumple must have taken wrong turnings
both before he met me and when he retreated.
Her maid discovered Sir Dumple
in little Harold's room, the child screaming
and the nurse much terrified, for Sir
Dumple, in a most excited manner, was
declaring he had seen the White Lady!"

But Fury ?  where was he ?" asked
Miss Mackenzie, who had listened all the
while expecting to hear of the poor hound's
fate.

Oh !" answered the Marchesa, indifferently,
not liking the interest to be diverted
from her own share in the episode, " he
was dying ; he had been shot by a
poacher, and had dragged himself under
his master's window to die ; no one
explained the history of the apparition to
Sir Dumple, and he has doubtless ere now
related the ghostly encounter to his brethren
in the city."

Ruy felt instinctive dislike to a lady who
could relate so rapidly an absurd adventure
to people who were expecting to hear
the fate of a noble hound that for years
had been Lord Kinaire's companion, and
whose fidelity was shown even in his death.
Ruy's reverence for women w r as innate, but
he could not overcome a suspicion that

underneath the Marchesa's professed
ingenuousness, lurked a nature that was
both small and self-engrossed.

The day at the river came off, but the
Marchesa had no success. Peter expressed
his opinion with a candour and incisiveness
common to himself.

You wad see, Master K,uy, the marches
is over glaikit for salmon. She can
cast a line, I'll no be saying' she cannot do
that whatever, but she canna hand her
tongue when the fish rise, and folk should
na tak' in hand sicca a serious occupation,
if they're no mcanin' to gi' over havers in
the pursuit."

The Marchesa gave herself to the task
of encouraging Sir Dallas's interior
with the two girls, for she hoped a partiality

for her daughter would ensue ; but,
alas ! for her plan, he was fast giving himself
up to the other maiden's influence,
though Marie seemed quite unconscious of
his preference.

One day's beauty and peace had come
between Sir Dallas's heedless past life and
his present hope, marking time as no other
of his memories had power to do, and he
had pondered about the possibilities of the
future till they had grown up into his
thoughts like realities. Though the years
had no worse blot on them than aimlessness,
he bitterly regretted now that there
had been no work nor manly worthiness
wherewith he could give this fair woman
proof of his will and power to make a
career in the time to come. Perhaps

regret for the past was surer proof
of amendment than resolutions for the
future, based upon hope of grace from
Marie, but Dallas Gore as yet thought
more of his own unworthiness than of his
possible success with her, who was his first
love !

The Marchesa dreaded that Ruy might
already have made an impression on
Ingha, but she could not divine from his
grave, self-possessed manner whether
he had even a predilection for her.
As Archie and he were necessarily often
absent from the girls, Sir Dallas had
plenty of opportunity for making himself
useful to them, which, of course, served to
make the Marchesa hope that he would
profit thereby to advance his suit with

Ingha, which suit was wholly imaginary on
her part.

The Marchesa was quite at ease thinking
of Archie Campbell ; he was frank and
open always, and she had judged his feelings
aright, and could see he was too
wholly absorbed in his attachment for
Marie to be turned aside ; and yet Sir
Dallas did not observe this ; and for the
rest, they were so much accustomed to
regard Archie as one of themselves that
no one, save Marie, had thought of him in
the light of her lover.

He hovered about her as he had always
done, argued with himself that
this was his day of grace, hopeless as
it was, and that, when she gave herself
to another, he would go away asking

VOL. i. Q

nothing in return for the love of his whole
life.

The Marchesa was eager to know
Ingha's opinion of the young men ere she
went back to Invereethin ; and with this
desire, and some purposes equally, if not
more, matrimonially maternal in her mind,
she went to spend an hour in her daughter's
room the afternoon previous to her
departure.

She found Ingha arranging: the flowers
which every day Ruy sent up to her.
The Marchesa made no remark upon the
occupation, but seated herself on a couch
near an open window, where she could observe
her daughter's face without appearing
to be watching it. She talked of various
subjects ; Ingha's dress for the ball, the

weather and the scenery, and was almost
despairing of opportunity to bring the
conversation round naturally to the design
she had in hand, when she espied Sir
Dallas and Ruy in the grounds, and this
was suggestion sufficient.

There go Sir Dallas and Mr. ,"
she said ; " what a contrast there
is between those two young men; Sir
Dallas so genial, well informed, and charming,
while his friend always seems to me
quite morose. I suppose," she went on, as
if speaking merely for her own edification,
he is too self-sufficient to care for intercourse
with ordinary people."

You are wrong, mother dear," answered
Ingha, innocently eager, " Mr. montgomery
does care for intercourse, he is

q2

highly cultured, too, and he has most
artistic tastes, and is the very opposite of
morose or self-sufficient, and "

Ingha stopped suddenly, for on looking
up from her flowers she found her mother
intently regarding her, as if to apprehend
the whole meaning of her words. Iugha's
eyelids drooped, and her usually pale face
flushed, though she could not have told
wherefore, save that maybe her ardour for
truth had made her more zealous than her
mother would approve.

"What absurd phrases you use, child''
said the Marchesa, in a somewhat indignant
tone. "One would suppose you
were some primitive Puritan who had never
been out of an English village. Your
language is often ludicrous, and, if you

-continue to foster your oddity, you will
only be laughed at in society. I may as
well take this opportunity," she added,
rising as if to leave, " of warning you
that it is just possible your inexperience
may be construed into forwardness here,
and therefore, though Mr. Montgomery
serves you for hero, you should be cautious
about letting everyone see it. as it might
be said you were trying to inveigle Kerin-
yean's heir, and that he did not reciprocate
your feelings, paying you no more attention
than is courtesy to his uncle's guest."

The Marchesa pretended to yawn, as
she looked out of the window, and after a
pause said :

I think I will go and have a siesta
before I dress."

Ingba had turned her face so that hi
mother, walking towards the door, could
not see it, but, when the door closed again,
down drooped the face on the roses, the
sw r eefc, fragrant clusters of Ruy's white
roses.

The rude, cruel waking from her fair
dream had been sudden, and now Ingha
realised that it had been a dream. Ruy
had appeared to her an ideal of manhood,
and she had given him the homage
which seemed his due, though the coarse
construction the Marchesa had put upon
her feelings, transformed her idyll into a
vulgar tale. The poor girl mused a longtime
wearily ; she did not see how she
could act differently towards Ruy without
being false to herself, and tears, pure as

the dew-drops of the morning, fell on
Ruy's white roses.

Through the open windows came the
merry singing of the birds, and, in the
distance, the river had a soothing sound, as
if for lulling pain ; anon the voices of the
young men talking and laughing under the
trees came to her listening ear, and her
thoughts went from her own perplexity
to wonder about their conversation ; but
Ingha never moved till Coyla came to help
her to dress for dinner.

Coyla discerned that some rare occurrence
had caused the tears of which she
saw the traces, and her kind voice touched
Ingha so sympathetically that she wept
again.

"Coyla/ 3 she said, "I cannot help it,

4 ' mother has been here, and has spoken
hardly to me ; she ought to give me nothing
but truth and love."

Hush, hush, my bairn," said Coy la,
for she concluded that the sorrow she had
dreaded for her young mistress was all
too soon beginning, and that it would
be encouraging an undutiful feeling to
listen to the daughter's complaint ; unquestioning
obedience to parental authority
being one of the creeds deep rooted in
Mistress Gilroy's mind.

You will have love enough yet,"
she said, " don't ask for it too soon,
and tears will but spoil your sweet
face."

The loving woman, who had been more
than her own mother to Ingha, soothed

and quieted her without asking a single
question of her interview with the
Marchesa.

In Ingha's heart there was a sense of
wounded self-respect, but, as she was
conscious of innocence, she determined
there should be no apparent change in her
conduct before her mother left the Castle,
as that would be equivalent to a confession.
In planning for the future she determined
to check all her impulses that were not
conventional, and certainly the free life
here prompted many ; her perception was
quick, and she thought she could be honest,
and yet adopt a greater reserve, though
she knew that, if she acted against her
convictions, she would commit more wrong
than even her mother had insinuated.

To-night she would not change her
manner, lest she might deceive the Marchesa,
seeming repentant of the design of
which she had been accused ; so she took a
brief respite, put some of Ruy's white roses
in her hair, and tried to forget her mother's
undeserved reproaches.

The Marchesa had been cordially invited
to defer her departure till after the thirtieth,
but she was too wary to yield.
She wished Kerinvean to feel her absence
ere she gave him further encouragement ;
she knew he would be dull after she left ;
she had devoted herself almost entirely to
him for three days, riding, fishing, and going
to old haunts forgotten by her till
reminded of their associations by her lover.
He was completely absorbed by her,

and a willing captive, though often,
when responding to her questions, his
words lost half their importance, asher
thoughts were occupied with plans
irrelevant to the topic of conversation,
though they concerned both the speaker
and the future disposal of his time and
property.

The Marchesa was too much engrossed
with herself and her desire to make a lasting
impression on Kerinvean to-night, to
take notice of Ingha ; and when the elders
were in the lesser drawing-room apart from
the young people after dinner, Marie asked
Ingha to sing, a request that was as usual
eagerly seconded by all, but most earnestly
on Ruy's part.

"Yes," said Ingha to herself, though she

only smiled and went to the piano, " tonight
for him, tomorrow for the stars !"

She did not ask them to choose her song,
she played very softly the first bar of
Schubert's ballad, " Der Nussbaum," and
very softly also rose her voice with the
second bar, hardly louder than a whisper,
if such can be in song. No effort of memory
mingled with the sweetness of the
cadences as she sang on in her calm,
passionless way. Ruy watched her intently
from a dim corner ; her white
form and pale face gleamed with a strange
magnetic beauty ; he had never thought
her so radiantly lovely, and in her voice
was a deep, thrilling tone which made him
spell-bound, when the others asked her to
repeat the song.

The wild melody and her own tumultuous
feelings had strongly affected her r
and she gladly sat down to repeat the
ballad.

Not a note did she slip or sing imperfectly
; strain after strain the music grew in
pathos and joy wonderfully mingled by the
genius that made it seem like an improvisation,
held in by the tenderness of the
accompaniment, the crescendo passages no
louder than to be but the faintest help to
her voice, which its own power sustained
throughout. The last two lines she sang
so softly and distinctly, that when it all
died away, though the tension of the
hearing of the listeners had been great,
there was no sudden silence ; the song
was learnt in their hearts, and her clear.

glorious voice seemed to be singing there
still.

How marvellously well you sang it,
dear !" said Marie, who thought Ingha's
too critical judgment concerning her own
performances would be gratified to-night.

Yes, yes, I did sing it well the last
time ; I shall never sing it better than
that," she answered, somewhat eagerly ;
her face was white as ever, but there was
a glad look in her eyes.

Was she thinking of her resolution of
never singing again specially for Ruy, or
only of her art? She was right in saving
it would not be possible for her ever to
sing that melody better ; they often recalled
the effect her tones had on them
as she repeated it.

It was no little matter to Ingha di Gar-cell
that at last, if only for once in her life,
she had been able to do perfectly what
she loved so well, and what had cost her
infinite labour to make possible. Art
yearnings were lulled for a brief hour in
fulfilment so great that the long days of
resolute work found their reward in the
singing of a simple German ballad ; not
in the approbation of the listeners  that
might have gratified her, flushed her calm
face, and heightened her wondrous
beauty, but it could never have wrung
from her undeserved acquiescence in her
own praise.

CHAPTER XV.

COMING OF AGE.

'Twas when the wan leaf frae the birk-tree w

famine."

Old Song.

' Now tread we a measure!' said young LoehinvaiV ;

Scott.

fTIHE inmates of the Castle were early
astir on the morning of the thirtieth,
and many a hearty greeting Ruy had to
acknowledge.

Kerinvean gave his nephew a cheque fora
thousand pounds. The tenantry presented
him with a splendid piece of silver,

which had been designed to commemorate
the event.

Ingha timidly offered Ruy a book,
which, she said, had been both friend and
guide to her for a long time, and which she
hoped would be acceptable from having
been so precious to her.

He gladly promised to prize anything
that had been prized by her, and was
delighted to see that she had written his
name under her own, which she had crossed
out, and these words :

If thou thy star do follow
Thou canst not fail thee of a glorious port."

He was surprised to find the book was
Carlyle's (< Sartor Resorts ;" and yet, he
thought, her strength of purpose, her
belief in the power of resolutely follow-vol.

I. K

ing a course to achieve the highest success,
and her large sympathy, roust have
been helped in no small degree by this
master. Ruy smiled as he noted that,
almost unconsciously to herself, Ingha was
unfolding a kinship of intellectual and
poetical life for which he had never
expected to find so gentle a comprehension.
He had never sought, a sympathy apart
from nature, but with this human inspiration,
strange, new hopes and dreams were
dawning, which no after purposes would
ever exorcise or change.

From far and near the people gathered ;
old men, who still remembered Captain
Montgomery with loving pride, came todo
honour to his son, whom they regarded
as having been born specially to be laird of
them and of Keriuvean.

The } T out arrived in great numbers, for

they claimed Ruy as their leader, because,

when prowess and skill were needed, he

could compete with their best athlete ; and

women young and old were there, and all

had a good word, and an earnest hand grip,

for the hero of the day. Euy cheerfully

yielded to what was expected of him with

the grace that was habitual to him, and,

as he stood bare-headed amongst them,

many a mother thought of the joy and

pride his parents would have felt had they

lived to see their son honoured as he was.

And, as these homely souls spoke to him of

the past, his heart warmed more than ever

towards them, touched by an affection more

real and strong than mere tradition could

ever have produced.

r 2

The weather was lovely all morning, a
blue sky with great white clouds. No
time was lost, for games, dancing, and
bag-pipes were early the order of the
day.

Marie and Ingba gave themselves up to
the amusement of the children, of whom
there was a goodly crowd.

The Chum, well known to everyone,
went in and out among the people familiarly,
as if he felt that to be noticed
by him was an honour only second to a
recognition from his master. In a group
surrounding Ingba he found a little curly-haired
urchin whom he sniffed, and then
quite pleasantly allowed the boy to stroke
him, a sign of approbation rare on the part
of the reticent Chum.

He is a beautiful dog, and a good dog
too' said Ingba to the bo}\

Yes," answered he, speaking slowly,
trying to put on his best English, " and he
is also  wise."

Why do you think so?" asked Ingha,
attracted by the boy's droll expressions of
admiration.

"Because we've got Whaup, his brother,
at home, and d'ye no see hoo weel he kens
it? Whaup great for mony a day ester
Mr. E-uy took this, but he was the bonniest,
sae father gae him till the young laird.
An' uncle that's deed took their mither
from Greenland."

Old Peter had to assist with the dispensing
of hospitalities, and it was a
labour in which many were enlisted, for

innumerable healths had to be drunk, and
long fasts of expectancy to be satisfied,
ere the dispersing, but before dinner Peter
found time and opportunity to speak to
Ingha.

Has your ladyship," asked he, " ever
seen Highland games afore ?"

u No, this is the first time ; but I have
been greatly interested already."

They are fine fellows these hill folk'

said Peter, " and weel they ken there's nae

another country like their ain ; and gin ye

o-ie them their ain wull, and hare nae disputations

about doctrine, nor kirk, nor

state, ye feel at hame after biding a wee.

There's no sicca a braw (shield as the

young laird in a' the lowlands."

Peter's garrulity was fatal when hew



began to talk of Ruy, but Ingha was ever
a sympathetic listener.

? His nain sel is weel enough," he went
on, " but, when it pleases the Lord to tak
him, it will mak a man of Master Ruy,
and there'll be better clays for the folk in
the shillings then, for he take tent of
things himsel', and tries to gar Kerinvean
do bits o' jobs for the pair bodies, but
the laird just lets a' gae its ain gait,
and whiles it's no the right ane, my
teddy."

But everything looks nice to-day,"
said Ingha, puzzled to know what to
reply.

Ay, it's fine," said old Peter, his heart
quite full, " it's fine to think hoo I hare
lived to see this day, for I learned him the

fishing' when the laddie wasna sac big as
ray gaff, and the things the bairn would
spier would hare ta'en the General Assembly
itself' to answer, but he was aye thinking',
thinking', and limit weel to be in gude company."


Towards afternoon the clouds grew
darker, and threatening of storm sailed
up from the horizon, and the glens were
filled with gloom ; anon the rain commenced,
and the weather became hopeless.
Bonfires had blazed brightly enough on
Yenruish, and on the surrounding hills,
at Kuy's birth, but it was understood ere
the people dispersed, that it would be injudicious
even to attempt to light them
on such a night as this promised to
be.

After the people had all gone, Ingha
sat alone at the window of her own room,
and watched the downpour ; it seemed as
if sunshine could never have reigned
supreme over the woods and loch, so
dreary was the scene ; she felt unusually
depressed, and was glad when a message
was brought to ask her to go and have
tea in Miss Mackenzie's boudoir. She
found Marie, Miss Mackenzie, and the
three young men already there, and
all were laughing as she entered the
room.

She is so antediluvian," said Archie,
as Ingha appeared.

"My dear," said Miss Mackenzie, addressing
her, " we are speaking of the
Dowager Duchess of Tentowers, a noble

old lady, who has accepted the invitation
for to-night, and I maintain, contrary to
the others, that Kerinvean will open the
ball with her. She is of the highest and
purest lineage, indeed so ancient is her
family that the Queen herself might rank
second to her in Scotland."

Miss Mackenzie could hardly be considered
a proper judge of the precedence
of the English Royal House, for, I regret
to say, she had little reverence for its
pedigree save where the line of Stuart
came across it, to lend lustre and renown.


I maintain, Miss di Garcelli," said Sir
Dallas, " that Lady Kinaire will be the
favoured individual, and that Ruy will
meanwhile be compelled to restrain his

youthful impetuosity in paying court to
her venerable grace of Tentowers, who, I
imagine, must have foresworn dancing
before Kerinvean was born."

You are wrong, Gore," said Kerin-
yean, who joined the group as Sir Dallas
was speaking. " Ruy will ask the Marchesa
for the first dance."

Euy stooped to stroke Chum.

Have you any commands for Flash and
me, Kerinvean ?" asked Sir Dallas, u and
must I wear my war-paint to rival the
magnificence of your scarfs and swords ?"

As you like, my dear boy," answered
Kerinvean. " My only command is that
you enjoy the ball. As for Archie, it
would be no use giving him anything todo
when the McWheezies are present."

Whereupon everybody laughed, for this
was an old joke of Kerinvean's.

McWheezie, of Glen Owl, was Archie's
special aversion ; this chief's domestic possessions
consisted of a wife who was tall,
gaunt, and red ; and three daughters,
whose charms resembled their mother's,
exasperating all her attractions of height,
awkwardness, and colour. The house of
Glen Owl had ever been remarkable in
the county for its intense desire for precedence,
its paucity of sons, and for the inherent
ugliness of its numerous women.

The invitations to the ball had been
most graciously responded to, rather to
the surprise of Kerinvoau, who had visited
little of late years, but Miss Mac-kenzie
gave traditional reasons for it to

Ingha while the others were conversing.
"You know, my dear," she said, "the
Montgomeries of past generations have
been renowned for the magnificence of
their hospitalities, and the coming of age
of the heirs was always a cause for
general celebration, indeed it was often
foretold how their careers would progress
from the manner in which these anniversaries
were passed. One story undoubtedly
proves how this may be depended
on : You remember the portrait of Sir
David Montgomery in the gallery, whose
face everyone thinks so strongly resembles
Ruy's ? On the day he was twenty-one, a
large banquet was held here, and at the
end of the table an old blind piper stood
up fearlessly before the whole assembly

and played the Montgomery Coronach, to
which all listened till the last notes died
away, without anyone seeming to understand
how inappropriate such music was.
After a pause, Sir David himself rose and
said : ' It is seldom, my friends, that a man
hears his own lament as I have done tonight,
so let us drink one more doch-autograph
together before we part, and
here's to the man that comes after me, since
Kerinvean will never be mine.' And he
died bravely enough ere a month had
passed, defending the king's secret."

By-and-by Ingha went through the
gallery, and could not help looking again
at the portrait of the ill-fated youth.
Surely," she mused, " it bodes no harm
that the features and expression of this

brave-looking, mailed soldier so strangely
resemble this descendant !" Hearing a
step she turned, and Ruy accosted her,
and they walked to the window together.


"What a pity about the bonfires !" said
Ingha, dreading that Ruy should divine
her thoughts.

Yes, our people will be sorry, but it
has been a long day ; I am glad one can't
be twenty-one more than once in a lifetime.
It was jolly enough in the morning,
but, since the weather changed, soothsayers
would pronounce the indications
somewhat ominous for the future, if Miss
mckenzie's legends are to be relied on,"
he added, smiling.

As they looked out on the landscape,

there was nothing but dreariness visible,
no lifting anywhere, the rain came down
sullenly as if for doom, varied in the downpour
only by swathes like bending corn.

In spite of youth, hope, and comfort,
there was a strange foreboding in Ruy's
heart for which there was no actual reason,
but the autumn dulness had come
suddenly, and the gloom seemed to have
fallen like a pall on the hearts of these
two who were ever more susceptible to
the influences of nature than to those of
ease, luxury, or festivity.

CHAPTER XVI.

I RUN THE GAUNTLET OF A FILE OF DOUBTS."

rpHE party in the Castle assembled in
the drawing-room a short time
before the company was expected ; Miss
Mackenzie was resplendent in black lace,
the scarf and traditional buckle of course
fantastically conspicuous. The girls both
wore white, and it would have been
difficult to decide which was the lovelier
maiden.

vol. i. s

As the guests began to arrive, Archie
expatiated to Ingha on their characteristics
and peculiarities.

First of all came Mr. and Mrs. Coram
he a great-limbed, handsome, fair-haired
individual in a kilt, and she a tiny,
dark, sparkling, little coquette.

The giant and fairy of Gleuhuli-
kin I 1 ' said Archie, bowing to the little
lady, whose quick e3 7 es saw every good-looking
man in the room the moment she
entered.

Very soon after Lord and Lady Liptrot
arrived. Miss Mackenzie found opportunity
to say to Ingha,

A new peerage, my dear,"  the
speaker's antipathy to recently created
titles was instinctive. " Lady Liptrot's

mother was a Strathkinnen Campbell, and
that gives them the entree here."

Archie was accosted by an acquaintance,
and Ingha for a while quietly watched
the arrivals. Of Highland proprietors
there was a goodly array, and of kilts,
dirks, jewels, and tartans, a profusion.
Ingha soon recognized the McWheezies,
and could not help smiling as one of
the girls, whose red locks betrayed her,
stretched out a redder arm, and grasped
Archie's hand.

There came Campbellss in groups ;
Campbellssss young, Campbellssss old, bachelor
Campbellssss, and spinster Campbellssss,
and Campbellss innumerable.

During the evening Ingha remarked
to Marie that she was amused at the

s2

similarity of names, everybody seemed to
be Campbell.

Surely it is a very great family,"
she said. " Are they all related to Archie,
dear ?"

Oh no," answered Marie, " Archie
is a Glen Dim Campbell, and the others
are of different ills."

There is no dearth of people here,
Marie," responded Ingha, "but there is a
great scarcity of names."

Oh, it is a sort of fetish with them to
be named Campbell," returned Marie.

Indeed," said Ingha. " I suppose, as
in Italy, the children are so often christened
by the name of a patron saint. Is
there a Saint Campbell, dear ?"

Ask Miss Mackenzie, or, better still,

Archie," said Marie, going off to greet
some new arrival, and smiling as she
left Ingha and her perplexities with
Archie.

I am sure you won't laugh at my
ignorance, Mr. Campbell," she said, "but
is there a saint of your name in the Scotch
traditions ?"

He does not belong to our race, if
there be," said Archie," but it must seem
odd to strangers to hear the name so incessantly.
In the Western Highlands, to
be called Campbell seems to hide a multitude
of sins. I believe some people consider
it a sort of title, but too often it
is only the synonym for pride and pretension,
though there is many a heroic
example to the contrary."

"But they all seem very nice, friendly
people," said Ingha.

Oh, yes, here we all behave properly,
and there is no opportunity for displaying
bad manners, but we can be unconscionably
rude and vulgar when we consider
we have occasion to assert family
pride.

I am inclined to doubt your sreneraliza-

/ CD

tion," answered Iuha, smiling. "You
are such a numerous race there must be
may an exception."

"Yes, we Campbellss are numerous, it
has become quite a joke all the world
over. I heard a man say the other day
that when conversation flashed, in travelling,
or at dinner-parties, he always asked
his neighbour, in a tone that could I

heard by more than the person addressed,
if he knew Captain Campbell, and as
everyone present was sure to know at
least three or four Captain Campbellss,
there invariably ensued a perfect entanglement
of talk."

The Invereethin party arrived an hour
after the dancing had commenced. There
needed but one glance at the Marchesa
to decide who was the belle of the
ball.

Magnificently dressed, wearing jewels
even finer than Lady Kinaire's Dimples
sapphires, which to-night appeared
for the first time, Honoria di Gar-cell
looked fifteen years younger than her
age, and radiantly beautiful.

Kerinvean welcomed the party with

evident delight. Notwithstanding Marie's
inexperience in society her girlish dignity
was much admired. Ruy received the
Marchesa's fulsome congratulations in
his usual quiet way, and asked for the
pleasure of the next dance, while Kerin-
yean went into the ball-room with Lady
Kinaire.

The brain of the Marchesa was busy
to-night ; there was much she fain would
know and say, and she prided herself on
her tact. She had some little arrows to
aim at difficult marks, that needed as
skilled and practised a judgment as her
own ; little poisoned arrows which doubtless
would speed fast home. After a
brief general conversation with Ruy she
said :

I RUN THE GAUNTLET. 265

"I have not yet seen my daughter.
Can you tell me where she is ?"

"Just opposite us, in the alcove, with
Sir Dallas," answered Ruy.

They seem very much absorbed," remarked
the Marchesa. " I hope they are
good friends. When they were children
Lady Gore and I were wont to speak of
their futures ; I knew Sir Dallas's mother
intimately, and she often said she wished
our children when grown up might become
attached to each other."

Ruy bowed as if acquiescing in the hope
of these far-seeing parents, but the Marchesa
could read nothing from his calm
face. Anon she saw Sir Dallas dancing
with Marie, and perceived his manner,
which had betokened mere courteous interest

when conversing with her daughter r
had now changed, and that he appeared to
be listening eagerly to every word Marie
uttered. The Marchesa was bitterly annoyed
at the breaking down of one of her
schemes.

Later in the evening Sir Dallas was talking
to the Marchesa, when anon she asked
how they had all been amusing themselves
since she left.

Oh ! we have had great fun," answered
Sir Dallas, " shooting, fishing, boating,
picnics, and lots of music ; this rural life
is something delightfully new to me, especially
the days in the woods, where everyone
is quite content even without sport."

"What a charming girl Miss Montgomery
is ! ' said the Marchesa, choosing

her wickedest, surest arrow, " quite
distinguished-looking ; don't you think
so ?"

Very," answered Sir Dallas.

It seems a pity," went on the Marchesa,
in an assumed tone of unconcern,
u that Kerinvean should encourage young
Campbell's attentions to her. I know he
is your friend, and I consider him a very
good fellow, but she might have had a
much better parti, though of course first
loves are insurmountable difficulties." And
she smiled as the arrow sped unerringly
home.

I suppose so," answered Dallas the
soldier, whose face would hardly have
grown so white in sight of a deadly foe.
It was a frank, honest face, true as

Archie's own to the thoughts in his heart,
and the Marchesa saw that he loved Marie
Montgomery beyond all hope of change.
He had never dreamed of that which the
Marchesa had revealed to him, though
wherefore he had not, seemed now a
mystery to himself, as he remembered
the familiar intercourse between the inmates
of the Castle and their friends at
Invean.

The gaiety was now at its height, but
heedless hilarity was over for ever in the
life of Dallas Gore.

The Marchesa was eager for an opportunity
of settling her own personal affairs ;
inconsistent and scheming, she thought if
her engagement to Kerinvean were ratified
it would put an end to any embryo hope

which Ruy or Ingha might entertain
regarding each other.

She had not much difficulty in arranging
a quiet half hour with her admirer; he
asked her to dance, and, pleading a slight
fatigue, she very winniugly told him she
would much enjoy a stroll through the
conservatory. Down the gallery they
walked together, she in all her brilliant,
conscious beauty, and he with no other
thought than devotion to her, the love of
his youth !

A little converse on ordinary topics,
leading gradually to personal subjects, a few
artful hints, a tenderer tone as the past
was borrowed to make the present more
significant, a guileless expression of countenance,
and those eyes that had gleamed on

so many men, became surprised id their
gleaming as Kerinvean spoke the words
for which she waited.

Then came the question :
Do you really love me, Monti?"
The response somewhat abashed in its
earnestness the woman who recked not the
cost save for the power it gave her.

And Kerinvean made the second great
vow of his life, the fulfilment of which
would, I ween, mar the purposes of his
promise to the dead.

I do love you, Honoria ; God only
knows how I will ever love and serve

you."

Does the same recording angel register
all the pledges of a life ? I suppose, if he
does, they can only be entered as " possible

lies." Recording angels must Lave
had a fair experience of two facts almost
unfailing in human history : The vow-prompted
by love or passion for a woman
includes the probable breaking down of all
the foregone resolutions of a man's brain ;
and also, that the more unworthy the
object sworn to, the more certain is it that
none but the Almighty is deemed of sufficient
magnitude to witness and attest the
declaration.

CHAPTER XVII.

ON THE THRESHOLD.

Thou hast no cause to grieve ; but I, but I,
O Greek, I loved her ; I have slain temptation."

Tales of Mileti

QIR DALLAS GORE did not know

 afterwards bow the rest of that night
wore away, and he never cared to recall
the ball. When the Marchesa left him he
passed Archie and Marie, unnoticed b} r
them, and he imagined he could already

perceive in their voices and manner all that
was needed to confirm the Marchesa's hint.

Marie's face was glowing with excitement,
she was smiling at Archie's congratulations
to her as lady of the castle ;
he had been reminding her of some scene
of their childhood, the antithesis of the
present, and very lovely and winning she
looked, saying, as Sir Dallas went by :

Oh ! Archie, will you never forget
that ?"

The stern conflict of Desire against
Fate, fierce longing for forbidden fruit,
powerless hands trying

11 To grasp the roses of heaven ;"

the hour when the fiat reveals itself, and
the tempest breaks on human impotence ;
vol. i. t

that unforseen experience through which
most of us some time or other have to
pass, had come to Dallas Gore.

There are hearts that ever after such
strife bear deep scars, while others bleed
mortally from the wounds that can never
be healed; but some, rare enough, aha I
emerge strong and nerved for all after
struggles, having conquered in their first
grim warfare with the fiends that lurk in
each man's path, ever ready with thrust and
lunge when the sword-arm trembles, the
casque is off, and parry impossible; though
when these demons of envy and passion
are once dislodged, love may still remain
the armour of him whose banner bears no
other device than a hope forlorn !

Fortune had always smiled upon Dallas

'Gore till now, and her frown goaded him,
and jealousy gnawed his heart, and in the
first moments of confused realization his
manhood was paralysed and his thoughts
were those of a fool ; he felt wicked
enough, ay, fierce enough to slay his rival
w 7 with the idle sword that hun at his side.

He would not risk seeing him again
to-night, but her face, ah ! her face, withall
its luring sweetness, all its arch, winning
beauty, would it ever again leave his
memory ? He felt he hated his fellow-creatures
now, all but her, and even for
Marie there was yet but a perplexing
sensation of pain and disappointment, the
only homage of which he was capable,
while the tumult of passion held sway in
his heart.

t 2

The music and mirth maddened him, so
he turned purposelessly to his room and
there closed the door ; but, though it was
already two o'clock, he did not think of
sleep.

He unfastened his showy dress, flung
its gay ornaments aside, and breathed
hard while he sat looking at, though not
seeing the dying embers of the fire ; and
when his dog, a beautiful, sad-eyed Newfoundland,
having tried in vain to winsome
sign of recognition from him, lay down
on the rug and licked his feet, her gentle
eyes watching him the while, the mute
tenderness of the appeal must have contrasted
strangely with his own emotion,
for he rose up suddenly and said
aloud :

My God ! I never felt like a murderer
before."

He had been thinking that if Archie
were dead, out of existence altogether,
there would be no barrier between him
and his fierce desire.

This was not a selfish man, indeed he
possessed qualities that often produce
great heroism, but experience was lacking,
and his first strong temptation had
touched him in a vital part. Anon his
thoughts grew less wild.

Why should I not have my chance
with her ?" he pondered, " there's no need
to be such a coward as to give in without
a fair fight. He is poor, and I am rich ;
the Marchesa said she ought to have a
better parti. I wish we might fight for

her ; we were both good fighters in the old
days ; but we were always on the same
side, Flash and I."

And he recalled how they two had held
by each other through all kinds of frolics,
and more serious ventures. Neither had
had many family ties, and as children
they had been like brothers, and in boyhood
sworn allies. He recalled also how
generous Archie ever was, how he owed
him even the hopes that had been so short-lived
by being brought again, after a long
interval, into association with the Montgomeries,
and suddenly it struck him that
his own present impulses were treacherous
and unmanly.

He walked restlessly about the room fora
time, and then opened the window, and

sat by it to watch the dawn. Hour after
hour passed, and gradually a sense of
shame came over him, conscious as he was
of having built his castles, with Marie for
their sunlight, and that she, all the while,
had been perfectly indifferent.

"Ah, if I had not come on this scene
all too late," his thoughts were, " she
might have loved me, and this aimless life
would have become earnest for her sweet
sake."

As this hope drifted away, he felt the
utter want of his wrecked heart, and
his eyes gazed vacantly towards the
hills.

How dreary any sort of service will
be now after this, and it would not be
one degree better at the old place. I

should always be thinking there how
she would have altered and brightened
everything."

The pale, yellow gleams of dawn were
streaking the horizon in faintest lines.

I wonder what I shall do now ; the
future will be as empty as all the past
seems to me to-day."

The dawn-gleams were mounting slowly,
and the highest peaks had rosy hues upon
them.

11 Flash has the most right to her. He
must have always loved her ; no one is
more straight and true than he. It was
just like my conceited foolery to imagine I
had any chance."

The rain was over, and in the woods
were stirrings and chirrupings, hints of

the morning psalm, and busy carolling
as the birds cleared out the rubbish with
which yesterday's downfall had filled their
nests.

Perhaps, in time " (he still pondered)
I may become accustomed to think of
them together, but for me no other love.
She will always be the star I could not
reach !"

Hesperus was still shining serenely over
Furnish, the mist-arrows were cleaving
the glens, and out from between the hills
rose columns of crimson cloud, and all
suddenly the sun broke through the haze,
and shone on this man's face.

"How lovely it is! God help me!
How can I leave it to-day ?"

He bent his head on his folded arms,

and for a long while remained as if in
sleep, and when he lifted it again there
was stern purpose on his face, and light
flooded the chamber with gold and crimson,
and out in the woods the sons of
joy, love, and hope had broken the stillness
far through all the land.

He heard a young girl's voice across the
loch calling the cattle ; he heard, too, the
plash of oars belonging to the herring-boats
that were coming in after their hard
night of work, and he knew that it was
time to begin his part of the duty-life that
had never before seemed to have such
urgent claims upon him.

"Flash, my boy," he said, half aloud,
only to you would I have given in without

a fair fight, and you shall never know
I left the field because you were on the
ground !"

Then he made his arrangements for departure.
Go where he might, and he must
needs wander far ere he found content, he
knew he could not stay longer at Kerin-
yean 3 where he had been on the eve of
trying to win her, whom now he acknowledged
by all codes of honour, to have no
part in his lot ; and he must needs go forth
alone.

He had stood on the threshold of an
enchanted palace believing he had a right
to ask for entrance, and while the hope of
gaining it was delighting his soul, suddenly
had come upon him the knowledge

that it was treachery even to have gazed
therein.

Archie Campbell was his friend, and
this man's heart was wholly loyal.

CHAPTER XVIII.

"j DID NEVER THINK TO MARRY."

I did never think to marry
but doth not the appetite alter ?"

Shakespeare.

TZ ERIN YE AN, whose dislike to making
plans, and to trouble of all kinds,
was inherent, had let events take their
own course, and he now found that certain
results had ensued, consequent on having
shirked the initiative.

The day after the ball he went to

Invereethin, and burl an interview with
the Marchesa; she was charming as ever,
welcomed him warmly, and succeeded in
making her lover feel that he had secured
a rare prize.

She told him she wished to return to
London at once, accompanied by Ingha ;
afterwards the enslavement could be
made known, and that she would like her
marriage to take place in town. It did
not occur to Kerinvean, as it would have
done to a nature more suspicious, that the
Marchesa's plans were wonderfully matured,
considering that it was barely twenty-four
hours since he had acknowledged his
love for her. But Honoris di Garcelli well
divined the character of the man with whom
she had to act, and knew that by assuming

a lead she would at once gain absolute
power over him and his possessions. She
gave Kerinvean a letter for Ingha, in
which she bade her prepare to come to
Kilane the following week, and said to
Kerinvean, on delivering her missive :

You will have a good excuse to come
over again to make arrangements for
Ingha to meet me."

Not one word of Ruy nor of Marie she
uttered, though the thought of them lay
somewhat heavily on Kerinvean.

On his way home he called upon Mr,
Campbell, to whom he wished to tell the
news of his engagement, and to consult
him about his proceedings with Ruy ; he
felt a lurking desire to avoid the pain of
informing his nephew, and he hoped his

old friend would suggest some way of
avoiding what he dreaded.

Mr. Campbell was greatly amazed to
hear Kerinvean's story, but, notwithstanding
his surprise, warmly congratulated
him.

You will speak to Ruy at once, I
presume ?" asked he, after Kerinvean had
mentioned that the marriage was to taken



place very soon.

"Well, the truth is," said Kerinvean,
somewhat ashamed of his confession, " I
dread telling him."

Of course it will be a sad blow, but I
am sure he is too unselfish not to rejoice
in your happiness."

"Yes," went on Kerinvean, "I know
that, but I have always led him to believe

I would never marry, and, until I saw her
again, I had not the faintest notion of
such a contingency. I am much afraid of
his leaving me ; he has odd ideas, and
though he is my heir presumptive, he may
take it into his head that he ought to go
away and make a career for himself elsewhere.
He is of great use to me, and,
poor boy ! he would not be happy banished
from Kerinvean any more than I should
myself."

I would advise you to tell him at
once," said Mr. Campbell, "in order that
he may not be hurried into taking any
steps precipitately."

I think Marie will in every way be the
gainer," went on Kerinvean, trying as
usual to get rid of unpleasant thoughts.

vol. i. u

She has already found a friend in Miss di
Garcelli, and they will go out now into the
world together under the auspices of the
Marchesa. and Miss Mackenzie will thus
be relieved."

Mr. Campbell smiled benignly as was
his wont when Mathilda's name was mentioned,
but he merely took Kerinvean's
hand at parting and said,

"I hope that you and yours may have
every blessing. I have no more fear for
Buy than for my boy Archie, they are
both good fellows, and Ruy was never
selfish."

Archie, who had remained at the Castle
since the ball, and stayed till Sir Dallas
took his departure, arrived at home just
after Kerinvean's visit.

Mr. Campbell told his son the news, and

Archie's reception of it was a long, low

whistle ; but, after a moment or two of

silent amazement, he said :

"Ton my word, dad, it's a bad business."


Why, Archie ?" asked Mr. Campbell.

Ruy will be so cut up about having to
leave, and heaven only knows where he
will go ; he can't stays there after she
comes. Such a breaking up of everything
there will be at Kerinvean ; she is too gay
for the old place, and won't be content
there unless she crowds it, and then during
the London season she'll want to shut
it up or let it ; that sort of person always
does that sort of thing, and Kerinvean is
a, fool, and he'll repent his foolery before

u 2

three months." Archie stopped a second
for want of breath, and then began again.
It wasn't particularly nice of her to
choose yesterday for her manoeuvre, when
the country was acknowledging Ruy heir
to Kerinvean. I am sure she made the
offer; such a thing wouldn't have occurred
to her venerable flame, it isn't natural."

Don't be too rash, Archie, Kerinvean
is a man still in the prime of life, and he
was engaged to this lady before her first
marriage ; besides, though it will give
present disappointment to Ru', he will
outlive it, and it will be a great advantage
for Marie  at least, so says Kerinvean, and
that she and Miss di Garcelli are already
like sisters."

Yes, but he isn't going to marry h< .

dad ; the mother and daughter are quite
different. The Marchesa looks like mischief
always, and Ingha is as high-minded
as her mother is mean. I suppose Miss
Mackenzie will get her cone now. Why
didn't Kerinvean marry her? I'd rather
have her for my wife than a hundred
like his choice. It's a bad business, a
hopeless business for our boy."

Archie," said Mr. Campbell, following
up the train of thought concerning Miss
Mackenzie, and, while speaking, taking
off his spectacles, and earnestly regarding
his son, " Archie, I have been wondering
lately if you would object to
my asking that good lady to share our
home ?"

Archie did not whistle now, he rose

294 TIME AND CHANCE.

from bis chair and went to his father's
side ; standing there, with his arm round
the old man's shoulder, he said,

"Dear dad, I am so glad, I never
thought of such a thing for you ; I'll go
and ask her, if you like."

That would hardly be suitable or
dignified, my son ; but, if you wish, I will
be the bearer of any message you may
send to assure her of your acquiescence in
my desire that she should honour our
home with her continual presence. I am
growing old, Archie, and a great tie on
your jounglife. It is very lonely here when
you are absent; but I never thought of
marrying again till, after years of intercourse,
I discovered the worth and congeniality

of Miss Mackenzie's character
and disposition. ''

Archie responded in fitting words, and
smiled as he pictured Mathilda and her
array of chiefs and clans in the quiet house,
and thankfully he mused on the difference
between the two proposed marriages.
There was a farther cause for gratitude in
the fact that now he might make definite
plans for himself, for lately he had been
greatly perplexed about his future. Should
his father's offer be accepted, he would be
free to go anywhere, and his thoughts had
often turned to Canada as a chance not to
be lightly considered.

Archie rejoiced so much in his father's
hopes that he was eager to have the matter



settled ; but Mr. Campbell belonged to the
impulsive school, and, although this
subject had been on his mind for sometime,
he did not wish to trouble Mathilda
till the path was quite free from
obstacles.

END OF THE FIRST BOOK.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLtNHKIM IIOUSK.

VOL II.

21 Howl

BY

MRS. TOM KELLY

Fate, Time, Occasion, Chance, and Change. To these
All things are subject but eternal Love."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1882.

All rights reserved.

Tainted BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM House,

BLENHEIM STREET, OXFORD STREET.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

BOOK II. HAZARD AND DEATH.

HAZARD AND DEATH.

11 And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass,
and the earth that is under thee shall be iron.

"The Lord shall make the rain of thy land powder and
dust : from heaven shall it come down upon thee, until
thou be destroyed."

Deuteronomy.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER I.

THE LIVES OF THE SAINTS.

So may ye gaine to you full great renowned,

Of all good ladies through the worlde so wide.

And haply in her harte finde highest rome

Of whome ye seeke to be most magnitude !

At least eternal meed shall you abide."

Spenser.

fTIHE numerous guests who bad remained
all night at the Castle departed
after luncheon, and the evening which

b2

followed the ball found the small party
more or less tired and dull. Sir Dallas's
absence and Ingba's shortened visit were
the apparent reasons for general depression.


Kerinvean went to the library after dinner,
and the young people strolled up and
down the gallery, where a wood fire
had been lighted for the first time that
autumn. Ere long, Ruy and Ingha were
left to their own resources, and they lingered
near the big stove over which hung
the picture of the ill-fated David montgomery.


lily had lately been searching in different
records of the lives of the saints
for a full account of Saint Cecilia, of
whom Ingha had often spoken. The

idea that she herself resembled in mind
and person the fair saint who had fired
her imagination continually recurred to
him. Since the time of Ingha's going
had been fixed, an indefinable dread had
taken possession of him lest this devout
disciple of so exalted a saint might,
like her ideal, shrink from an earthly
union.

Ingha's beauty was her dominant perfection,
but it was not merely of form and
feature. It appeared to Ruy to personate
an inspired purity and simplicity that had
hitherto seemed impossible to humanity.
Her wondrous gift of song, that thrilled
his soul as nothing save Nature had ever
done before, also allied his beloved in his
thoughts with her whom the Church centuries

ago had worshipped as " The Queen
of Harmony."

Would Valerian's fate be his ? "Would
Ingha's devotion to Art, to any cause,
preclude the possibility, even the desire of
an earthly union ? Would an inward voice,
when the pleadings of frail human passion
took the form perchance of ideal joy and
hope, bid her "be silent and wait' till
even a higher decree be revealed ? Ah.
why should Ruy torture his peace with
these strange forebodings ? When such
love as his sways the soul, the object is
exalted into a sphere above the lover, and
he ever deems that the maiden he fain
would woo and win will have to stoop out
of some far heaven of his imaginings to
ally her fate with his own.

Ruy almost envied Valerian his pagan
descent ; he, too, would gladly have learned
his creed from the lips of his beloved, and
martyrdom would have been hailed serenely,
and sternly endured, if Ingha's voice,
singing canticles to their Lord, could have
saluted his dying moments. Thus was he
thinking and feeling during the last days
of her sojourn in his home, and thus it
was that he had been somewhat silent in
the hours when Ingha and he were surrounded
by others.

The fitful flames of the odorous pine-wood
played over Ingha's pale face,
and made her white gown rosy in its
blaze.

How lovely your dress looks in the
firelight," said Euy. "I have seen the

same sheen on Furnish at sunrise, when
Yeurnish was covered with snow ; your
1 silken tissues ' are quite as glistening.
But tell me," he went on, smiling questioningly,
as if not sure of the answer,
you don't wear sackcloth beneath them,
do you ?"

Please don't speak slightingly of her
penance," pleaded Ingha. "I am not worthy
to be compared with her. Were worship of
saints in our religion, I would ever invoke
the invisible protection of my Saint
Cecilia."

I agree with every word you have
said. I only differ in a syllable." Ruy
smiled as he added, looking down on the
earnest face beside him, " I would prefer
for this life, and for all that may follow,

the visible protection of my God-elect and
most beloved sainfc."

11 But you will find," went on Ingha,
still jealous for the fame of her ideal,
that in the accounts of her history,
even while she lived, ' an invisible moral
elevation' separated her from her companions.
And, now that she is really
as the angels, I would be content with the
benediction of her ministrations, though
she remained invisible to me. I think if
she impelled one's work, ' the science of
the soul,' Cecilia's art, which in her was
pure inspiration, might be consecrated
anew."

Yes ! I can imagine no inspiration
more forceful than hers would be," said
Ruy, abstractedly. " Saint Cecilia was

swayed to sing her divinest music because
she realized the invisible presence of one
who whispered to her to keep herself pure
for the divine union ; but, alas ! Valerian's
love could not live side by side with
another."

Ah ! but Valerian died a martyr for
the cause in which her songs had instructed
him, and surely that was a nobler fate
than living in idle luxury and pagan
pleasure as her husband !"

But," asked Ruy, incredulously, " do
you think his ' Morituri te Salutary ' found
hope in the canticles she sang ? Does it
not seem to you that one unsuppressed
human token of a love like his own would
have osborne his spirit more joyfully

through the persecutions of martyrdom
? M

"Oh! no," said Ingha, warmly, " Cecilia's
songs were in praise of a more
deathless love than even Valerian's, and
they inspired him with an enduring
courage. I am sure she loved him devoutly,
eternally, but from the first she
foresaw that the path marked out for
them, through much tribulation, would
lead soonest to the life where love would
be crowned, and I think that Valerian's
unswerving faith in his wife was one long
mournful ecstacy of salutation for that death
which they both regarded as the ratification
of their eternal union."

'Morituri te Salutant,'" answered Ruy r

has always before seemed to me to bethe
refrain of pagan heedlessness of death,
never to have been capable of even suggesting
hope to a soul that was to be left
behind."

Ah ! but if one whom you loved were
about to die, there would be no gleam of
hope anywhere if you saw Death approaching
unrecognized and dreaded by
her. But if your loved one bravely
saluted you and Death, you would feel
that the separation would be only for a
brief moment, just till the tide of time
rolled back, and the waves of eternity
flowed in."

Ingha paused for a few moments, then
her eyes suddenly brightened as if she saw
a vision, and she said :

All ! how I wish some great maestro
would essay to paint Saint Cecilia, or to
carve her story. What a vast subject for
one who feels it !  the wondrous beauty,
the mysterious sorrow, the profound love,
and the deathless hope ! I have looked
for this, but only in music have I found
it. I am sure Valerian must have seen it
all in Cecilia's face when he was dying;
and the memory of its unutterable emotion
could never have left his thoughts till
she too had joined him in the life where
love's crown is won."

And Ruy vowed all silently that, if ever
power came to him, he would essay the
vision she described, and the face would be
no other than her own.

Ingha," said Ruy, after a pause, it

was the first time he had called her by
her name, and he uttered it very gently as
if its sacredness would hallow his invocation
; her eyelids drooped with a glad
surprise while her face flushed for a
moment deeper than the pine-blaze dyed
it, and anon became white with rapturous
emotion. u Ingha, will you always be the
kind of friend you have proved to me
here ? I do not ask yet for more than
you have bestowed already, but life would
be quite vacant now without the memory
of it, and, if your inspiration were not to
abide, I do not know how I could reach
any ' glorious port.' Dare you promise to
give me the same trust and friendship
always, Ingha ?"

At first she could find no words, but

Euy stood looking down on her in silence,
waiting ; then she held out her hand and
said softly :

"I cannot help trusting you, and I
think I can promise to be faithful."

Euy took her hand, bent over and kissed
and then released it, and they stood therewith
full hearts and throbbing pulses.
Anon, Euy hummed involuntarily the refrain
of the song lngha had sung for him
at the river :

Yet I must cross the seas, my love,
Where no one shall me know."

He was not thinking of the words, nor
of the purport of the ballad, but to lngha
they seemed prophetic to-night.

Don't," said she, her grey eyes full of

tears, " please don't hum that song. Shall
we go to the others now ?"

Yes, if you wish," answered Ruy, u but
I was not thinking of them ; only of you,
only of you, my beloved."

Though no rights were asked, their faith
was solemnly pledged, and life glowed now
with richer hues, and its heavy shadows
were unseen in this new glory, and the
gloom of the coming years was unperceived.


Stay ! stay ! ye trustful hearts that
dream of neither doubt nor change ; there
is prophetic writing on the wall, could ye
but discern, and it bodes a sorrow that
only love can conquer ; there are portentous
clouds in your horizon, though ye
think there arc but stars of hope in the

undimmed blue above, and that all are
within your reach ! It is your day of
grace, and vacant, dreary years are hastening
on towards you, when alas ! ye
shall look back questioningly in vain to
this night for the vow that hovered and
was not uttered, for the troth that bound
but was not sworn.

Ah, me ! how constraining and secure are
some unspoken promises, and yet how the
lonely heart pants for the memory it cannot
find, the one word more that would have
made a glad waiting, of the proud silence
that Fate will not break, and which grows
more and more desolate as the years increase.


There was a goodly number in the
Castle pew on Sunday, Archie among the

VOL. II. o

rest. He lost himself in contemplation
of Miss Mackenzie in a new light, though
anon, when the thought of Buy's future
occurred to him, he put his hand to his
eyes as if from sudden pain.

Ingha sat very still during the sermon ;
one glance at Ruy as the text was delivered,
and then her wistful eyes caught sight
of an outline of hills, and she wondered if
it would ever be the same any more, if her
friends would ask her to spend another
month at Kerinveau, and would the group
be unchanged ; would Chum wait at the
door till the service was over next year ?
There was nothing in the summing up of
the new associations of her life which
Ingha forgot to-day. And Peter stood
bare-headed by the old wicket at the

churchyard, waiting for her to pass ; he
knew she was going on the morrow, but
language failed him when Ingha held out
her hand and bade him " good-bye."

"What could I say?" he spoke in confidence
to the housekeeper, concerning his
valediction, u gin it had been 4 God bless
ye,' it would hare been a vera repetition o'
His doings, for He has blessed her in His
ain way. She's justine o' the elect; ye
ken it by her singing o' the Psalms of
Dawvid, wha himsel' was a singer and a
minstrel upon stringed instruments. To
hear her lilt foot the paraphrases would
hare made Saul himsel' gie over his gloom.
Her voice ista like a mavis's nor a lassie's,
but just sicca a sound as we'd think a
snowdrop would hare could ye hear it

c2

praising' the Lord, and minding' Him of a'
the bonnie necks He made, no ane o*
them uncared for, however far wa' toon
the lochs atween the glens."

Ruy drove with Kerinvean and Ingrate
Kilane, and, while his uncle and the
Marchesa were exchanging a few last
words apart, Ruy said :

I hope my Saint Cecilia will not
long remain invisible to her devoted
disciple !"

You will be in town soon ?" asked
Ingha.

Yes' answered Ruy, smiling, " but
people in town don't always meet, and the
invisible moral elevation separates sometimes
most effectually."

"But it will not separate us," said

Ingha, bravely trying to bide her tearful
emotion with loving smiles, " I think you
have read the account of my saint too
literally, and your memory is woefully
retentive."

"It is only so retentive that, though I
have lived twenty-one years, I seem to
have been born but a short month ago.
The study of the lives of the saints, the
life of my saint, now absorbs all my
thoughts, and they will retain no memory
of her that will not be eternal !"

And Ruy waved adieu to her who had
become the one star in the heaven of
his desire. And Ingha, in full recognition
of all at which his words only hinted, in
the eloquence of her gaze, smiled a blessed
answer to his unspoken prayer, and the

moment of farewell seemed to them
both the opening of the gates of
Paradise.

But the gates of Paradise can close
as well as open, and the eyes that have
once beheld the glories they hide shall
never be content with any other
vision.

CHAPTER II.

THE EYE OF EXILE.

"Lord! Lord! This great birth holds a hundred
things covered up for them who know how to look,

and do not mind diorgina;

>>

The Golden Butterfly."
MY DEAREST INGHA,

I smile through my tears as I
hold my pen idly when I have so much to
write. Smile too, if you can, dear. Smiles
are rare here now except when Miss Mac-kenzie,
racking her memory in vain for

precedent, so that B,uy may not act despite
his ancestral examples, sighs, and says :
'Ah, my dears, there were no African
Diamond fields known in the old days
when our families distinguished themselves
in warfare.' And for my part, Ingha, I
wish they were still undiscovered, for
Archie is going to these fields to seek his
fortune ! Give line to your imagination,
my dear, and picture Miss Mackenzie dispensing
kooinoors to us all, for Archie
says he is ' sure to find lots. 9

Have you overcome your amazement,
and would you rather not have any more
surprises to-day ? One other fact I must
tell you, my darling, and when I think
much of it, and of what I have already
written, and it is difficult to think of anything

else, I steal away with the Chum,
under the fading trees, through the dewy
moss, and come home wet and weary, feet,
clothes, and eyes thoroughly drenched !
Ruy is going to Africa with Archie. He
has a thousand pounds which Kerinvean
gave him on the eventful thirtieth, and he
thinks the money would be well spent in
trying his chances there, and, when he has
proved himself fortunate, he will devote
himself to Art.

I wish we could foresee what will bethe
end of all these changes. Our boys
are going so far ; Miss Mackenzie will beat
Invean ; everybody one has regarded as
stationary is about to marry. I wonder,
Ingha, if you and I will waken some
morning and find ourselves brides-elect ;

vol. ii. c

it would not be so bad if it made us as
contented as dear old Mathilda.

The good news from the African Diamond
Fields has fired Archie and Buy
with the belief that Dame Fortune is
beckoning to them to meet her there. T
wonder where these Fields are, Ingha ; we
shall have to examine our maps, and mark
the spot which the latitude and longitude
indicate, for they are described as being
situated quite apart from any settlement,
and surrounded by desert.

Now I have told you all I know of the
destination of our voluntary exiles; nothing
is definitely arranged save the fact of their
intention to go ; as a Montgomery ' canna
swerve,' and Campbellss ' darn gae back,'
they will not change their resolve. Miss

Mackenzie will talk as if they were on their
grand tour, and we, we will not speak much
about them ; they will be so very, very far !

Tours ever,

Marie."

This letter was but a phase of the bewildering
regret which Marie was now
experiencing, and when Ingha came to the
end of the epistle, it fell to the ground as
she put her hands over her eyes and murmured
:

"A Montgomery canna swerve. Oh,
my king, my king, I know you will go !"

But Ingha spoke no word of regret to
anyone, for the Hope that ruled her was
invincible to dread and fear.

At this time one could hardly glance at

a newspaper without one's attention being
arrested by a paragraph narrating some
enormous find, or the incredible prices
given for stones which were the rewards
of the slightest amount of labour. For men
with small capital and good health, in the
early days of the African diamond diggings,
there were surely inducements enough,
especially if, beyond the amassing of
money, there was aim of better sort as in
the case of Montgomery and Campbell.

When Kerinvean informed his nephew
of his intended marriage, Ruy was greatly
surprised, though he warmly congratulated
his uncle ; but when arrangements for
the future were spoken of, he firmly refused
to entertain Kerinvean's proposal
that he should remain at the Castle. He

knew that the social life of the family
must necessarily undergo change, and he
knew also that his presence might be irritating
to the Marchesa, and concluded that
under any circumstances his duty was to
make a career for himself, independent of
the hopes that had always been held out
to him as heir of the fair lands of
Kerinvean,

Ruy and Archie had consulted much
about the proposal that they should goto
the Cape together, but it was not until
Miss Mackenzie had accepted his father's
offer that Archie spoke of his departure to
Mr. Campbell, and then both the young men
were eager to set off. Kerinvean had at
first feebly objected, but the Marchesa
wrote to him approving of Euy's determination,

so her devoted lover acquiesced.


"When the folk knew that their young
master was going abroad, it was observed
that old Peter followed Ruy almost as
persistently as Chum was wont to do.

Gin I was young, gin I was young,"
old Peter was overheard saying to himself
more than once, and no one doubted his
desire to go with Ruy wherever Fate
decreed. He avoided speaking of the departure
till the time drew near, hoping
that something might hinder it; but one
evening, seeing Ruy alone, he said :

"You'll be coming toon to spier about
foreign lands frac me afore ye hare quite
made up yer mind to gae away."

He spoke in a hesitating manner, for he

knew that Ruy's answer might doom him
to utter loneliness even here where he
had spent so many happy and contented
years.

"I have decided, Peter," said Ruy, "and
our berths are taken in the steamer ' Denmark.'
It is Clyde built, and is a really
fast ship."

Clyde built," responded the old man,
that sounds a vera fine character, but
I hare seen mony a feckless job launched
toon the Clyde ; the rivers no responsible
for a' that she carries on her breast, nor
for some o' the skellums wha fa' intil't.
But it's a steamer that'll tak' ye wa 1 , a
thing wi' wheels and steam instead o' braw
masts to haud foot the sails to the winds o'
Heaven, and gin she has but a sma' flaw

in her shaft, or a tinkered bit steel in
her rods to gar her mak' a wrong clink,
she'll maybe founder ye a'thegither, and
who'll tak' tent o' ye when ye're foot o
reach o' Clyde signals, and bonnie Clyde
laddies that wad count life well spent in
saving a fellow-creature."

We haven't thought of calamity connected
with our voyage, and I hope it will
be over in twenty-eight or thirty days."

Sax thousand miles in twenty-aught
days ! Diuua tempt the Almighty. He
diana mean mankind to gae fra ae part o'
the birth til the other sae fast, or He wad
hare given us wings, and no hare divided the
land by water. It canna be done wi'
safety, laddie, and forby I'm thinking yet
be about as near yer mark to set foot withe

intention o' spending some time by the
way, for whiles it maun be clone though ye
do gae in a steamer."

The evening before departure, Unsought
Peter's cottage, where he found
the old man sitting at the window with an
open book on the table before him, but he
was not reading, for the light was fading,
but over the peak of Furnish a star glittered,
and Peter's eyes were gazing abstractedly
at the mountain top.

Oh, you haven't taken to novels,
Peter ?" said Ruy, after a few words of
greeting' recognising the book on the
table. " I thought you objected to them
on principle."

So I do, Master Ruy, so I do. The
deil himsel's in a' the trash o' novels r

VOL. II. D

but this is a bulk o' different stamp ; nae
novels for me, Master Ruy."

What is it ?" asked Ruy, taking the
offered volume, and smiling as he read
aloud on its title-page " The Fortunes of
Niger, by Sir Walter Scott."

Oh, it's a bulk I found in the housekeeper's
room, and she bad me tak it to
keep me frae wearing* in the dreariness
o' the lang fortnight ; it's a' about the fortunes
o' ane Niger, a mighty fine chief, and
a countryman o' our ain."

Rue did not disillusion the old man, for
he knew that his usual mental recreation
consisted in nothing more enlivening than
Fox s " Martyrs," Baxter's " Saints' Restor
Boston's " Fo refold State," though his
leisure now seemed to be spent in a comparatively

profound literary degradation,
and voluntary, though unconscious, dissipation.


How bright that star is over Furnish,"
said Ruy, and Peter, whose heart was
full of a dull pain all for Ruy's sake, responded
:

I hare watched it for forty year, Master
Ruy, ay foot o' this window, and there
hare been times when I thocht I could see
mair intil't than I could tell ye ; but that's
no to the point. There hare been changes
while I hare watched, and whiles when I
hanna heart to luik sae far, I aye kenned
it was glisten' there, nae change in her fora
the rasp o' clouds that hare whirled

o

about under her. When I was dour and
lonely she aye sang the same, and mony's

D 2

the day it has cheered me. It's just a wee
verse frae Daniel that ye'll maybe find
comfort in yersel', when ye canna see sun
nor stars, laddie, and the lilt's just this :
Stand in thy lot till the end be !' eve
ken, if the Almighty could mak' sic a
changeless thing as yon star, just for His
ain glory, He could do greater things, and
He'll no weary o' His grand purposes concerning
us, however muckle we sae backwards
and forwards."

Ruy was silent for a few moments, but
he drew his chair nearer the old man,
and laid his hand on his and said :

"You have been always a true friend
to me, Peter ; God knows I am grateful."


ki Oh, my bairn ! my bairn ! cinna speak

o' that ; ye wadna, gin ye kent hoo the desire
of my eyes is being ta'en wa' ; but
He'll mak' it up ae day. He borrows, but
pays again a hundred-fold. It'll be sir
times for the lands till ye come again, and
there'll be mony an ill word speak o' the
cause, and mony a prayer for yer father's son
to be brocht to his ain ; but I've no see it,
though I'd be blithe to be at yer hame-coming.
Yet wha kens ? there'll be a mair glorious
hame-coming when yer work here is
done, and I've welcome ye then, if it be the
Lord's will!"

Ruy pressed the old man's hand, but
could not trust himself to speak.

I manna keep ye here the night, for
ye hare to mak' preparations. Come back
soon to the folk that lore ye, Master Ruy,

and the snowdrop that'll pine gin ye bide
lang wa'. Fare ye weel. The Lord give
ye courage and peace."

Gin I was young ! Gin I was young !"
sighed the old man, when alone, even
till sleep overcame him, and his dreams
too were haunted by the same vain
lament.

Si mihi, qua? quondam surat,
si nunc foret ilia inventa !''

said Entellus, and alas ! the wish therein
expressed has been the universal moan
of the aged in every language of: the
world.

CHAPTER III.

Good-bye, SWEETHEART.

He was a brave and modest youth,
He diana kiss each lass he saw,
And only ance the lass he loved,
And that was when he gazed wa'.

AND meanwhile ?
In the still November afternoon

Miss Mackenzie and Marie sat by the
fire in the drawing-room of the Castle.
Marie was on the rug with her head on
her friend's knee, when Archie's appearance
suddenly broke their reveries.

The arrangements had all been made,
the packing completed ; there was nothing
forgotten for Ruy and Archie, of all that
loving thought, and childish inexperience
in such matters, could suggest.

Archie had been expected that afternoon,
and yet, when he arrived, there
passed but the briefest greetings between
the three.

Where is Ruy ?" Archie asked, after
a pause, no one volunteering any other
subject.

"Gone to see old Peter," answered
Mathilda, still carefully avoiding a hint of
the object of both visits.

I wish it were all over now," said
Archie.

Yes, dear, I know you do."

These two comprehended each other,
and had fallen naturally into homely ways
of conversing.

I would like to have waited for your
wedding, Mathilda, but every month
makes our chances less ; we'll try to keep
the first anniversary of it together ; I suppose
we shall be millionaires by that time,"
and Archie forced a smile to finish his
prophecy.

Not a word from Marie ; she had
not moved since Archie arrived, but as
if the strain of silence were too great
for her, when a pause again occurred,
she rose, and Archie saw that her eyes
were strangely bright and eager as she
spoke.

"Archie," she said, "you have forgotten

your violin, and fate meant that } t ou should
use it here to-day, so come and let us have
one more practice together."

I can't play in tune to-night, Marie,
I feel sure I can't ; besides, we have so
much to talk about."

ei Have we ?" said Marie, somewhat bitterly,
"you. don't seem to be brimming
over with suggestions for conversation. I
got quite tired waiting to hear if either of
you would say anything that had any significance.
I want you to try the difficult
passage in the ' Musette,' " and she pointed
to a score on the pianoforte.

Archie took up his violin, and at length
got it in tune. Miss Mackenzie left the
room, and the duet began ; but, ere the
third line was ended, Marie threw the

score on a table, and went to the window,
saying :

It's wasting time, Archie ; you can
practise it tomorrow when you won't have
me.

Archie laid aside the poor fiddle, and
followed to the window, where Marie stood
looking out on the gloaming.

" It's getting dark," said Archie, after a
pause.

i

It is dark," responded Marie, in a tone
which dismissed the subject of weather
from Archie's mind.

I had a letter from Gore to-day," he
said at length, trying to find conversation.

"I hadn't," was the reply.

He says he has half a mind to get
leave and 20 with us."

So have I," went on the girl, whose
reckless words were prompted by an unreasoning
presentiment of sorrow.

He says also that he hopes the
Marchesa will have a fit before we
sail."

ct So do I," echoed Marie.

But that, if we really go this week, he
will either join us at Southampton, or
follow soon and go up to the interior fora
year or two."

"And marry a Zulu or a Hottentot, and

who'll care ?" said Marie, and then there
was silence.

Will he not say one word to me, not ask
a single question, when he knows so well,
so well? were Marie's thoughts. Archie

Ct

stood beside her apparently calmly regarding

the scene from the window, but in his
heart too was a great longing for one
word to take with him into the uncertain
future, ay, into eternity itself, if he were
fated never more to come back to her ; but
he had tutored himself into waiting : he
had known this struggle would come, and,
though the temptation was strong, yet he
was not all unprepared, and his hope was
that her freedom would matter little if she
loved him, for this was not a time to
woo.

The hour of grace came quickly to an
end with Kerinvean, and then arrived

i

Ruy, and, after some final arrangements,
Archie had to return to Invean. Everyone
tried to be cheerful except Marie, and
she maintained a bewildered silence as he

bade them farewell, and they all watched
him from the hall door ride out into the
night.

Then Kerinvean asked Ruy to go to the
library ; Miss Mackenzie went to her own
boudoir, and suddenly a thought seemed to
break on Marie. She went quickly to her
room, threw a shawl round her, descended
a side staircase, and she went also out into
the night.

She knew she could reach a place which
Archie must pass, by going across the
lawn and through the trees ; and there she
might see him without his knowledge.
Although an increasing longing possessed
the girl to have one word of farewell
for herself alone, and a presentiment of
its need in the coming days, she did not

mean to speak to Lira ; even in the madness
of her vain desire, she would have
scorned such a thought as maidenly ;
but, loving Archie as she did, once more
to see him, even in the moonlight, once
more to be near him for a blissful moment
while he rode unheeding by  Ah ! the
tiniest drop w such a thirst is a glorious
boon  and Marie sought no more.

She remembered the years of her childhood
as she hurried over the wet grass,
how Archie had been her hero ever since
then, how he had always been so chivalrous
towards her ; and, as she scrambled
through the faded bracken to reach her
hiding-place, she recalled years of untiring
service and devotion utterly unselfish. At
length she came to the spot near the bridle

path , where she waited and listened, and her
heart beat fast as her one little last glimpse
of Heaven approached.

Marie had forgotten that Scamper,
Archie's colle r , was with his master, and
that he never missed an opportunity of
proving how truly he deserved his name ;
and, as Archie's mood was so serious tonight,
Scamper's only enjoyment consisted
in dancing in and out of the hedges and
shrubs, and putting to fright all the sleepy
squirrels that at sundown had ceased to
be wary. Archie's horse took no notice
of Scamper ; he usually disdained to evince
the slightest cognizance of the dog's gambols,
and only at rare intervals would he
pretend to sport with him. Not having
received his customary caress after standing

quiet while Archie mounted, he was
still wondering about the lack of it, so
Scamper had tried in vain to get any fun
out of him.

But Scamper's turn came now, and he
was not to be balked by man or horse ;
when he came to the spot where Marie
stood he darted to her at once, and began
barking, and careering round her, in irrepressible
gaiety.

"Don't, Scamper, don't, dear Scamper ; go
away, go away !" whispered Marie, entreatingly,
in great confusion.

Down, Scamper, down ; what's up with
you ?" said Archie, as the dog yapped and
jumped from the trees to the drive and
back again. Archie leapt from his horse,
fancying some one from the Castle was

VOL. II. E

trying to attract his attention, and as he
listened but heard nothing, and Scamper
still went on with his demonstrations,
Archie fastened his bridle to a branch and
followed him.

Marie saw from the first that escape
was impossible, as she knew, if she ran,
Scamper would follow, and so she stood
still in trembling shame where Archie
found her.

Archie, Archie, I could not help it ; I
did not mean to speak to you. Oh, I am
so sorry "

Sorry for what ?" asked her lover, a
great and sudden light breaking all the
gloom of his life, " are you sorry you are
giving me the greatest joy I have ever
known ?"

Oli, Archie !" said the girl, penitently,
quick to apprehend that he had grudged
her one word before, though that now
when she had thrown herself involuntarily
on his mercy, he was his old chivalrous
self. "I meant only to see you.
I wanted you only for one short minute
all to myself."

u And I  I want you a whole long eternity.
My darling, you know that I love
you." And Archie took both her hands
in his, and looked down on her tearful,
blushing face. <c I have loved you always,
Marie, my own, all the years we have
played together as children ; and, since I
lost everything but my love for you, I
have often been glad that I had not told

you, almost glad that you did not care

e 2

LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY OF Ill

for me. Do you forgive me, my darling?"


Archie had drawn her nearer to him,
but only as if to protect her in the dark.
He asked no promise, offered no care?
but oh, how he rejoiced and how he
struggled with his love to conceal its
yearning from her. To part without compromising
her in any way seemed to him
fairest devotion, and then to come back and
woo her if he found her free.

If he found her free ! That had been
his fear, but now he was at peace, and he
was more jealous for her maidenly pride
than for his bliss in feeling her
near.

tl You must go now, Marie darling,"
he said, " for perhaps Ruy will be seeking

you. Poor little night-bird ! how I
shall think of your sweetness when away.
You won't forget that I shall think of
you ?"

Forget !" said the girl, her heart
strung to its utmost tension as she tried
to refrain from breaking forth into expressions
of the sorrow and love of which
he asked nothing, and her voice trembling
with emotion. "Forget! I am a
Montgomery, Archie, and as faithful
as any of them in loss, or failure, or
death. You may trust me not to
forget. And, Archie  dear," the proud
Montgomery features softened into an
absolute prayer, " when I am recalling
that you are thinking of me far away,
don't let my thought be a mockery, for I'll

cling to it, whatever may come, till the
end."

Archie felt he could hardly trust himself
in the tumult that swayed his feelings,
and, ever mindful of her, he was anxious
to part.

Go now, Marie darling, and if I'm not
in luck's way after all, and some other man
comes, and you know him worthy, remember
you are free, little one, quite free."

While he was speaking he drew her
head to his breast, and an unutterably
grave tenderness came over his face, and
the tone of his voice resembled that in
which a man miofht renounce the glories
and delights of life for the sacrifice of
martyrdom.

Free !" exclaimed Marie, as she drew

herself up, and in the rising moonlight he
could see her eyes were filled with tears,
though her voice was passionately defiant.
Free, would you say I was free, when
I shall be recalling every moment of my
life that you are thinking of me, that you
are striving to end the struggle and come
back to me ? Archie, if you call that freedom,
I'll exult in it, and be shielded all
round by its strength. Good-bye, Archie !"
She half turned as if to go away, but an
impulse, wayward as her own wild heart,
made her turn again to him, for one more
farewell, for one more look into that brave,
noble face which, now that the moon shone
full and clear, showed sadder than ever she
had known it before.

Archie dear, you forgive me for coming,

you forgive me for all the trouble you have
always had about me ? don't you,
Archie ?"

Kiss me once, darling, darling, for my
great love's sake !" lie said. She clung to his
embrace like a bewildered child, and in silence
the kiss was given, and Marie, withall
her burthen of grief and hope, was left
alone under the trees that moaned a low
dirge for the pain no song could soothe.

CHAPTER IV.

A PATH THAT LEAVES NO TRACK.

Thou shalt relinquish everything of thee
Beloved most dearly ; this that arrow is
Shot from the bow of exile first of all."

Translation from Dante.

3 Reader, are you willing to go on with
J -* ; me ? Our course hitherto has taken

us through scenes contrasting strangely

with those ahead. As the calm of the

lonely purple hills can environ passions

that stir mankind to great disaster, so the

still vastness of the solitary desert may

encompass, in a little space, ambitions
which could revolutionize an empire, and
oh, the vacant, pathless leagues between
these arenas ! But a few miles from them,
a sheep track among the heather, or the
poising, whirling circles of a fleck of vultures
in a cloudless sky overruling a
waste of sand, may be the only signs of
living creature.

Will you cross these leagues to go with
our heroes to Africa? I cannot promise
you a less toilsome journey than theirs,
but it will be sooner over, gentle reader,
yours shall be brief ; and I would bid you,
ere taking the first step in a course where
the successes will be all chance, and the
difficulties sure, to gird on your patience,
for you will sorely need it ere the end.

Peradventure you are wont to travel
much, doubtless in search of novelty, and
moreover splendidly equipped ; but for this
expedition, where you will range a part of
earth probably untrodden by you till now,
neither chariot nor courier will be needed.
Did we but know it, ere habit has made
luxury a condition of life, a good courage
that would increase by being hardily fostered,
a firmer grip of the staff which
supports us, a tightening of our armour,
and " God help us !" would be all we
would desire for the longest pilgrimage.
Can ye not affirm this, ye who remember,
as I too alas ! the young bright smiles
which in bitterness now we recall as salutations
for Death? And yet perchance happier
they whose preparations were made in vain

for a lengthened warfare, than they whose
threescore years have been a continual
fight in which they have ever been worsted
and beaten back.

Montgomery and Campbell embarked in
London on board a Cape bound steamer,
one that was, of course, advertised to
possess every comfort and convenience
which she in any remarkable degree lacked.
At that time berths for Natal and
the Cape in the mail steamers were taken
many weeks before sailing.

The passengers of the Denmark were
evidently desirous of practising economy
rather than speed, and the voyage proved
long and dreary, varied by a storm in the
Bay of Biscay at the beginning, and a five
days' gale from the south-east at the end.

Life for an enforced period  five weeks
this voyage lasted  in the society of a
hundred and fifty persons, from whom
there is no escape beyond the limit of a
few cubit feet, out of sight, but, alas !
never out of hearing, has seldom proved a
blissful experience, and was not calculated
in this instance to be such to those whom
mere circumstance and chance had brought
together in an hourly contact, in which
choice had no suffrage, and endurance no
alternative. The Jewish element of the
trafficking order was in the ascendant, and
broken English and low German were
incessantly screeched all day long.

Ruy and Archie made the best of it,
but not so the Chum ; it was altogether a
despicable business to him, and so incomprehensible

that till the last day of the
voyage he maintained the same anxious,
jealous, unceasing watch that never wore
for a moment into apathy. Notwithstanding
divers well-meant and promiscuous
attempts to induce him to fraternise, the
Chum would not be beguiled, and followed
Ruy and Archie, rarely letting both at once
out of sight. He indignantly sniffed at
the leaven of the Jews ; of their biscuits
pocketed at dessert he would have none ;
to their pats and approval he was alike
indifferent, and when the weather became
hot, too hot for the descendant of iceberg
rangers, he gave up peregrinating the
ship, over the whole of which he was
allowed to go as he liked. He would lie
for hours under any available bit of shade,

and with his fore legs stretched out in
front, on which his face rested, he would
pretend to sleep, though he was ever on
the alert, feeling suspicious in the unfamiliar
abode, and not in the least degree
assured that at any moment he aud those
dear to him might not fall into the hands
of the Philistines.

It was an ordinary voyage, with the
extraordinary discomfort usual in a crowded
ship. Our heroes sometimes joined
the Babel in the saloon, and were not
slow to pick up any information about the
country to which they were bound. They
counted the hours between the meals
leaden, for who, on a long voyage, with a
good digestion, has failed in this ? Nobody
was born, nobody was married, and

nobody died, though in do community
does Death make so brief an impression
as in that of a passenger ship ; and the
proceedings were truly monotonous.
There was no lack of disputation, declamation,
gambling, and argument. Drinking
was the chief amusement, it began
daily before the sun was " over the foreyard,"
and never ended ; and it was little
wonder that the first glimpse of land
eras hailed with glee by those who did
not share in these festive pastimes.

As the high, steep ridge of mountain
which half encircles Cape Town loomed iu
sight, the penance of exile, inaction, seemed
over. Our heroes had not yet experienced
the dreary ache of long absence,
nor had they spent years surrounded by

the sterile barrenness that covers the endless
African deserts, nor wandered, no-madeline,
in its more verdant provinces,
nor had they yet tasted the keen excitement
which its vast hunting-grounds can
give, though one who had seen many of
the glories of Central and Southern Africa,
and had enriched his memory with innumerable
pictures of rare magnificence,
confessed that he could recall no more
beautiful scene than Table Mountain sinking
into the sea!

There were hurry and confusion enough
at the dock, demonstrative recognitions
and loud Malay oaths, effusive greetings,
and strange, dusky faces, and when the
Custom house was reached, a bland Scotchman
was presiding over the incoming

VOL. II. P

tumult that pleaded and even commanded
his instant attention.

The arrival of indescribable and heterogeneous
baggage was quite enlivening
after the tedium of the voyage. Ruy and
Archie merely looked on till a lull should
occur, but the Scotchman had singled
them out, their tall forms always distinguishable
in a crowd.

Get foot o' ma road," thundered he to
the throng of Jews and others who pressed
round him. " Get foot o' ma road. An'
minna ye mair mannerly, ye'll no get
yer quits the day ava."

More by his tone than by his half-comprehended
words, the rabble felt it was
useless to thrust itself upon this gentleman's
attention. Your North Briton can

sometimes use his prerogative with great
power, even in the meanest ranks of authority.
In an altered voice, regarding
his compatriots, he asked :

"Far are ye frae?"

u That wad be tellin', but ye'll be frae
Stanehive," said Archie, who found the
accent irresistibly infectious.

"Far are ye frae? Far are ye frae?"
asked the official, determined not to have
his question again put aside by his ready
countryman.

Frae the hill-country north o' Glasgow,
an' a bittock wast."

They'll ca' ye ?"

"Campbell," responded Archie, stooping
to hide his laugh, and to open a portmanteau.


f2

I've heard that name afore. Wa 1
wf ye. I kent ye smelt o' heather."

The Scotchman made a few magical
chalk signs upon their various boxes, and
dismissed these two fortunate passengers
without examining any of their belongings.
This immunity from official supervision
was as welcome to Euy and Archie
as if they had possessed nothing that was
not contraband.

The next comer, alas ! had to expiate
their exemption ; he was a small, timid
missionary, whose unsuspicious and multifarious
packages were all as minutely
examined as if their owner had upon
their labels scored the brand of Achau.

CHAPTER V.

AFAR TN THE DESERT.

"Yet must I work through world and life my fate."

/VUR travellers were compelled to wait
 >  in Capetown three weeks ere they
could find any kind of conveyance for the
Diamond fields. The Inland Transport
Company had not then secured their wonderful
manager, the ubiquitous Mr. Hare
of Green Contain, who subsequently made
its wasp-unravelling such a marvellous

success that seven hundred miles were
regularly careered over in five or six days,
and passengers allowed three nights of
rest en route, relays of eight and ten
horses being ready at every stage, and
the dreary Karoo turned into a highway
which was crossed in as many days as
formerly it had taken weeks, and sometimes
months.

Bravo for you, friend Hare ! for many
was the rough journey you took to smooth
the way for those w r ho gave } 7 ou no
thanks, and many were the scorching da;,
that your cheeriness and infinite ingenuity
lightened for those who were unused to
the desert and its ways. There are men,
and women too, in many parts of the
earth  and some, alas ! who have done

with its toilsome journeys for ever  who
have still cause to remember the ring of
a kindly voice, and the help of a trusty
hand, when such were rare indeed ; ay,
even yours, Robert Hare of Green
Contain.

At length the two friends arranged to
go up to the Diamond fields with a Dutch
trader, who agreed, for a specified sum,
to drive such accommodation to them and
their baggage as could be spared from a
cargo of sugar, his own private speculation.
They were glad enough to avail
themselves of any means of getting to
their goal, and an ox-waggon, that was to
be drawn part of the way by mules, seemed
a promising exodus.

From the beginning they were given to

understand, for their waggoner spoke
excellent English, that the bags of sugar
were much more precious in his estimation
than either their lives, their comfort,
or their belongings ; his stock of sweetness
would yield eighty or a hundred percent,
at the Fields ; their passage-money
had been paid before starting. A Dutch
trader is always an acute man ; all things
are subservient to his Greed of o;aiu, and
his avarice is surpassed only by his
stolidity.

Your ordinary Dutch waggoner has nothing
to tell, nothing to suggest, nothing
by which to be amused, and his attention
is divided between his inner consciousness
and his pipe. "You may be a frank,
charming fellow with whom to rough it,

apparently, ay, sincerely, interested in his
cattle, his waggon, and his journey, but
the dreary creature remains as hopelessly
absorbed as if there were a government
tax on every word he uttered. After a
time his silence does not depress more
than does the muteness of the oxen
he drives, for in both cases experience
has taught that nothing need be expected.


Seven weeks of waggon life under a
burning sun that each day grew hotter,
in the society of a dumb Dutchman and a
Kaffir boy who yelled incessantly to his
cattle, made sad havoc of even British
stoicism. The food was wretched and
water scarce, and the track was one which
gave but few chances of sport ; nothing

but a stray pan or an occasional herd of
spring-bok, fleet, wild, and shy.

Sugar bags in a trekking waggon were
but poor substitutes for mattresses, arid, if
sleep were sometimes granted, it was as
surely disturbed by the harsh, discordant
shrieks of the Kaffir risings over the
monotonous sound of the wheels, or by
the cracking of his huge sambo, which
seemed to rend the stillness with explosive
showers for miles around. Often when
bard-wooed sleep was almost won, the
Kaffir's yells would break the spell as he
apostrophised by turn each poor beast
that trudged and toiled so laboriously,
though not one whit faster for his jerk)
menace of " Bunker !" " April !" " Zulu !
and the like.

rxf

The Dutchman seemed to take pleasure
in the discomfort of his passengers, and
often appeared more than ordinarily satisfied
when they were annoyed or provoked ;
aud he had that propensity for practical
and ingenious irritation which is developed
to perfection only in the lives of born
bullies.

One night while trekking with mules,
of whose performance their owner
was remarkably proud, his passengers
were asleep, and he was driving. The
mules perceived the nature of the ground
before the Dutchman, who was holding
the reins so loosely that they got their
heads, and dashed into the dry bed of a
river, where huge boulders were profusely
scattered.

The Dutchman turned round on the
sleepers, and called out sardonically :

"Keep your seats, gentlemen, and excuse
me for wakening you ; but it's hard on
the cattle dragging a load of dead people."

The mules took the break-neck defile,
rugged bottom, and precipitous up-hill at
a canter, but, notwithstanding, the waggon
arrived safely on the opposite bank, much
to the astonishment of all concerned ; the
bruises and shaking his passengers had
received yielding great satisfaction to the
Dutchman.

When the approach to Griqualand became
an event of near anticipation, our
heroes w r ere impatient even of the time
which they lost while the oxen outspanned
to feed and rest.

How many hundreds have wasted bright
expectancy in that desolate region, and yet
its dreary barrenness should have discouraged
too brilliant hope. Nothing but
solitary sameness, no landmarks, no verdure
save on the immediate banks of the
few streams, which more appropriately
might be called river-beds, as only during
the brief rainy season have they any
appearance of running water, the rest of
the year being stagnant or dried up altogether.


A pitiless sky, a causeless blaze from
sunrise to sunset, never a shadow of hill
or cloud ; broad, level lands with no echo,
level as far as the eye can see, as far as
thought can reach ; nothing to show how
far distant is the horizon, only an ending

where the vast blue sky environs the flat
monotony of earth ; increasing heat and
glare as the traveller wends northwards,
and whirling, blinding sand when the hot
winds blow. Nothing to suggest beauty
nor use ; nowhere a hint of treasure. Xo
trace of encouragement for those who have
come to seek it, unless the seeker finds answer
in the stars, and then, ah, mystery
of night ! what glamour over earth and
sky haunts those unbounded African solitudes
with thousands of stars over all the
serene expanse. And who indeed fails in
stilly trance to find conjectures of almost
divine accomplishment whilst communing
there in a tranquillity that cannot be
imagined, in a peace that the clamour of
the world's turmoil can never disturb ?

Ruy often contrasted the nights in the
desert with those on the outward voyage
when his surroundings no less ministered
to his poet nature : the rolling sea. over
which the ship, freighted with a garrulous
multitude, moved spirit-like, her bare
masts rising like ghostly spectres up in
the dim blue, while the stars played pitch
and toss with each other-here

change was absolute and significant
to a human soul that was ever solitary,
and whose impulses impelled to thought
rather than to fellowship. Here he found
a boundless calm with the glitter of the
stars to inspire him, and nothing now
seemed impossible. He grasped his desires,
and in rapturous dreaming tasted
the bliss of reality, and, while acknowledge

ing that borne and lands were gone from
him for ever, be felt that much  ay, all
that made life worth living, still was bis ;
freedom to strain and toil in the way be
had discerned to be marked out for him,
and he shirked no responsibility nor
dreaded any of the labour it entailed.
B,uy knew he had launched his barque on
dark and lonely waters, and for helm and
hope he had only a single star which he
had elected to follow wherever it might
lead ere reaching its "glorious port"'

11 Ingha !" the young mau whispered,
when the tumult of his feelings oppressed
him, and her name stilled them as if he
had heard her own voice.

Ingha !" be said, when their great future
seemed afar and he deemed his own power

to attain less than his aspirations, and the
utterance brought fresh resolution to fight
for her sake all untoward odds. If he failed,
it would be Kismit. Ah ! never because
she had led him astray ; no evil could ever
come by Ingha.

What a strange beginning he had
purposed for an art career, to have
come across half the earth to labour
for an indefinite time with all his might
and main, holding the same tools, but
perhaps not to produce as much as the
poor Kaffir in his employment, the " genius
of Petrarch ' matched against the lowest
of the human animal ; in intellect hardly
higher than the Chum ; in devotion, unselfishness,
and fealty not so high. Ruy's
dreams to find their beginning of realizes

II. G

tion in division of labour (and perchance
property too) with a mind that will never
soar beyond his daily "pap," save to a
wonderment if his wives shall have planted
his mealies now that he, their lord and
master, is separated two moons from his
home.

Ruy, who disdained the teaching that
would have narrowed his action by the
line and plummet of another's gauge, and
who, listening to the divine voice that bids
every soul go forth on its own solitary
mission, had a pure creed by which he
held fast.

He would live to be taught by his art,
to work in it with a single purpose, but not
to live by it till he had learnt all of which

he knew himself ignorant, and then,
if at length it were possible, he would
give joy through it ; but he asked
now that it might yield him nothing
but power. So here he had journeyed to
seek the means whereby he might become
a disciple.

Not yet had he entered the temple
where so many strain for the prizes, and
where the crowns differ so strangely :
many are made of the gold that perished,
and innumerable are the hands that reach
out to grasp them ; of immortal fame that
abides is the rarer diadem ; and down in
the lonely aisles are the nobler ones striving
for no earthly crown at all, since their
Titan force and brief span of life are

g2

needed for a service that hopes to he r
in the purer air of the great Walhalla, the
award, " Well clone !"

Only a lictor without the gates is he
who is dreaming of what shall be, he sees
afar off the crowd within, and he hears
the thrilling chorus of the mighty throng,
when, in a pause, the grind and discordance
of baser life halts. And ever when the
stunning clangour of the world waits for
its poets to speak, it hears of the vision
it cannot apprehend, and of the echoes
of the heavenly music to which it never
gives ear, and thus it is that they who
are gifted with imagination that cither

soars or sines must walk through the
world aliens and exiles.

Archie, the bright, brave comrade whose

hope, endurance, and humour under all
circumstances were inexhaustible, never
hid from himself nor from Kuy that he
had come to Africa to win back from blind
Fortune that which she had so ruthlessly
taken from him. And had that deity been
a god instead of a goddess, he would willingly
have combated with him as mortals
fight in direst conflict, so great he felt
his strength, ay, he would even gladly
have sacrificed the first valuable stone he
should find to give his imaginary foe a
blow for the ugly trick which had been
played upon him.

At length the long-expected glimpse of
the Vaal river gladdened their spirits, and
on either side of its banks were descried
thousands of tents.

The scone broke upon their view like
the encampment of a great army, which in
reality it was, though, for the most part,
composed of battalions of unrolled, undisciplined
troops, of every nation, every
tongue, who had gathered hither to do no
battle for king nor country, nor to unfurl
the banner of an' heroic federation, only
to wage a grim and selfish warfare against
Chance, in which subaltern was as like
to conquer as oldest warrior, where a wayward
goddess dealt loot into vagrant and
rapacious hands in which it proved a
Pandora gift, and sternly denied it to
ardent and resolute veterans, who, pera
venture, having failed often in straining
to win largesse from her, deemed that at
last here in a game of hazard, where she

was umpire, they might be in luck's way,
and cheat for once their implacable and
pitiless fate.

CHAPTER VI.

TWO Bridal.

. . . . And sigh'd his soul toward the Grecian

tents . .

*>

Shakespeare.

inhere was neither pomp nor parade
in the quiet morning ceremony at
the Castle, when Mathilda Mackenzie, of
Cairn Douhl, became Mr. Campbell's wife.
The bride's face wore the expression of
serene contentment, her soft grey satin
gown accorded well with her gentle bearing,

and though her only jewel was the
family ornament, it was less conspicuous
than usual on state occasions, and only
those who knew the history of the brooch
would have remarked its presence, for it
was almost hidden by folds of old lace,
also sacred from having been the adornment
of many a Mackenzie bride.

The choice of the wedding tour was
characteristic ; it was not to extend beyond
Edinburgh, where Mathilda averred
that she, being pitiably ignorant of the
historical associations and antiquities of
her own country, with so instructive a
guide, would learn much that had been
hitherto overlooked in this most delightful
study.

Strangely did Stuart Montgomery's

heart fail when the pageant of bis marriage
was planned ; he now found the
prospect of matrimony a somewhat too
definite fact, his hitherto careless life had
included so few experiences for which distinct
arrangements had been made, for he
had drifted into all his circumstances, and
had never controlled them by the force of
either purpose or will.

The settlements were drawn out apportioning
to the Marchesa, in the event of
widowhood, a jointure five times as great
as was provided for by the Kerinvean
entail, and for which a mortgage was
raised, though the necessity for all this
was so skilfully insinuated that Kerinvean
suspected no selfishness, for he still thought
his bride elect had not till now renewed

the marriage vow because of her waiting
devotion for himself.

Her late husband's will was peculiar,
and evidently had been prompted by a
thorough knowledge of his wife's character.
The whole income from his great personal
property, with the exception of a small
annual sum secured to his daughter, was
left for the Marchesa's absolute use so
long as she remained a widow, but in the
event of that condition being broken, the
mother's and daughter's positions were
to be changed, the large income to revert
to Ingha, to accumulate till she was
twenty-three years of age, and the small
annual sum to be all the Marchesa should
receive. An odd settlement, but the acute
perception of him who had made it had

foreseen that, so long as the mother had
no more absorbing interest, her child
would be well cared for, but that it was
necessary for the father to anticipate
matrimonial contingencies.

The Marchesa did not tell her daughter
of the mutual change in their prospects,
she determined to retain the communication
for future advantage ; she believed
that, when she herself had chosen a husband
for Ingha, she could so embellish the
relation of her own sacrifice that it could
not fail to influence her daughter's decision.
She anticipated that the strong,
steadfast will of her child mio-hb be amenable
to a consideration of this kind, when,
without it, matched against mere conventional
reasons, it would have proved invincible.


During the preparations for the marriage,
Ingha seemed to go about in a
dream; she and Marie had scant leisure
for thoughts that were not connected with
the coming event.

A large and expensive house in Belgravia
was secured on lease, of which the
Marchesa and Kerinvean were to take
possession on their return from a short
tour abroad. The girls had to be presented
at the Queen's first Drawing-room,
and their introduction to society was
deemed sufficient excuse for the outlay.


Kerinvean was not without compunction
about having made no settlement for
either niece or nephew. He had saved
yearly a sum out of his luckless prodigality

which he had meant to be Marie's
fortune or dowry, but alas ! he had devoted
it to the purchase of a parure of
gems, contrasted with which the Dimples
sapphires looked exceedingly
tame.

On the eve of his marriage, Kerinvean
said to Marie :

"I ought to have persuaded Rny to
have remained at home. I don't see
what good any of us will get by his
absence."

Perhaps some may accrue to himself*'
was the quick response.

Doubtless," said Kerinvean, " self-interest
seems everyone's aim. I tvish wo
were back at the Castle, child ; I hate
London."

"Dear uncle," said Marie, soothingly,
when all the f ass and excitement are
over, you will not feel as you do now."

Perhaps not, perhaps not, child.
Meantime, tell Ruy there's always a place
for him in my house, and, when some of
his confounded high-flying notions have
been knocked out of him, he'll find plenty
to do in the old spot, and nobody will doit
better."

This tardy recognition of his nephew's
claims, and of his own promise to Captain
Montgomery satisfied him, he had now
discharged a disagreeable duty, had offered
home and occupation to his heir presumptive
on the eve of a ceremony which he
knew would result in permanently barring
Ruy out from association with himself.

Canna swerve " was the motto of the
house, but its present master's habitual
reluctance to fulfil any grave responsibilities
had made him hitherto shirk even
the acknowledgment of his promise of
protection given so long ago. He had
educated Ruy to regard himself as his
heir, had on all occasions taught him that
he was so, for this mode of showing
kindness cost him the least amount of
trouble.

Kerinvean was sometimes ill at ease as he
thought of Marie's position, and he lacked
the undisturbed complacency and carelessness
which his life had known till now;
but his fits of gravity were short-lived, for
the spell of a woman's beauty was on his
spirit, and the witchery of smiles that had

enthralled his boyhood was charming the
hours with a strange and flattering
delight.

My dear Mrs. Campbell," said Lady
Kinaire to her guest for the nonce, "I
have come to the conclusion that, of all
the impossible idiots in this world, a well-provided
for widow is the most impracticable.
It always makes matters worse
if she be attractive, for fools lie in wait
to pander to folly, and a handsome widow
is never satisfied till she does it again  I
mean until she has committed another
blunder, for marriage is nearly always
that, unless with your romantic people,
and they are so rare. No one ever made
two happy marriages, it's against nature ;
the very Bible denounces them. A man

VOL. II. II

will either bate the oae or love the other.
That isn't what I allude to, but it's true
of this subject as well."

But do you not find it romantic in
Kerinvean to have been faithful in his
attachment to his first love for so long a
time ?" asked Mathilda, timidly evading
another tirade upon second marriages.

All chance, my dear, mere inactivity
and casualty. Your hero  Elinor's, I
mean  has been worried into matrimony,
and their old flirtation has been the sirius:
upon which she has harped ; for why.
Heaven only knows, unless it be that a
man has always some vulnerable point at
which a woman can aim to fool him to
the top of his bent, and then he gets
punished, here in the flesh, for his misdeeds.

And now Ruy Montgomery, my
hero, is exiled, and his romance will have
a different sequel from that which I had
designed, and everything, through Elinor's
insanity, will end prosaically."

Mathilda, always just, even though her
feelings impelled an adverse opinion, and
well knowing Ruy's fidelity could be
trusted, pledged or not, replied :

il I imagine the Marchesa thinks no
history could be more romantic than her
own, Kerinvean having been her first
love."

Romantic, indeed !" repeated Lady
Kinaire, in a satirical tone. " Very romantic
to pick up a first love at the fag
end of her career, marriage, maternity,
widowhood, and a dozen other possible

h 2

husbands having figured in her life since
they parted. I grant you Kerinvean
is glamoured, but he is incapable of anything
deeper ; and, moreover, he, being a
predestined bachelor, ought to have remained
in the state Nature placed him ;
but Elinor, being a born fool, must needs
upset everything. You doubtless perceive
that I like E-uy Montgomery infinitely
better than his uncle."

"But that is no marvel," returned
Mathilda. " Euy's character combines
every fine quality recounted of his
ancestors."

11 And Kerinvean miofht never have had
any save for his good looks," interrupted
Lady Kinaire; "it would be a just retribution
on the family if, after all, Ruy

remained the heir, and brought back a
Hottentot wife and a troop of black
babies."

Mathilda did not pursue the conversation
; perhaps she was somewhat shocked
at Lady Kinaire's levity, though she half
discerned her judgment was prompted by
feelings of kindliest interest towards Ruy
and Ingha, though no one as yet had any
reason for more than conjecture with regard
to their attachment, which had been
-as secretly kept as that of Archie and
Marie.

The marriage took place notwithstanding
the fears and dread its announcement
had occasioned, and Lord Kinaire
gave away the queenly bride.

Sir Dallas Gore, who was waiting his

leave, had strolled into the church
during the ceremony, though he had
declined the invitation to be a guest.
Standing where he was unnoticed, his
hungry eyes feasted on the vision of a
white-robed girl who was all unconscious
of his presence.

"Only once more!" he had pleaded
with his resolve, when planning this last
look, " only once more, and then goodbye
;" but when he saw her, after weeks of
relentless self-subjection, he knew that no
vagrant Bohemianism would ever still his
longings or lessen his desire. He h;
manfully tried to battle with his passion,
but standing there, where his hand could
have almost touched hers, he would
willingly have given up everything by him

possessed to have dared to claim her as
his own.

What a vacant heritage to love where to
seek would be sin ! though in the dark
gloom where Fate had placed him, a
word from Marie Montgomery would have
been to this soldier as the mad excitement
of leading a forlorn hope. He drew back
lest she should see him, and bless him with
her smile. Grace to him, strong rival
toiling under alien skies ! You w r ho have
vivid memories of smiles bestowed upon
you in tender largesse, remember him,
whose lot for lack of them is bare and
dreary. Recall it with no scant honour
should the hour come when you are in
strait of doubt. Give him, then, his due
of homage for his fealty, and forget not

Low he withheld delight from his soul lest
it should engender thoughts disloyal to
you, his friend !

CHAPTER VII.

diggers' dens.

Nature, what tidings there are
Most abject in regard, and dear in use !
What things again most dear in the esteem

And poor in worth

O heavens, what some men do,
While some men leave to do !
How some men creep in skittish fortune's hall,
While others play the idiots in her eyes."

Shakespeare.

A CANVAS bouse made on a wooden
frame, fourteen feet by twelve, and
considered capacious in the vicinity where

it had taken its stand, was the abode of
Ruy and Archie, and when spoken of
the word house was usually emphasized, as
if such a habitation were a rare luxury,
and the owners thereof, albeit diggers,
men to be envied.

The erection had a fly outside the roof,
fastened by poles and ropes, and this extra
screen somewhat aided in keeping out the
heat and rain, but no barricade could do
this effectually during the violence of the
storms; behold the interior at this moment
!

A window opposite the door shows a
downfall rivalling the Delude, and the
deafening noise made by it compels
conversation to be carried on in shouts.
In several places water is coming through

the canvas, fast filling the buckets on the
floor.

Tropical rain, no doubt of it, though
south of the Tropics, and five thousand
feet above sea-level, but the few weeks of
rain, thunder, and lightning make no
sham of their downpour and storm, and
little use is canvas or thatch against an
anger that has been growing during nine
or ten months of drought, and fierce is
the wrath of the elements all round the
temporary habitations of the diggers of
Pniel.

Montgomery and Campbell have lost
the trim look of new-comers ; their faces
are bronzed, and their clothes are a good
deal worn, but, under any circumstances,
they could never be supposed to belong

to other than their own class. Their work
had been hard and unfamiliar in its painful
monotony, and, to men of attainment,
the relinquishment of all former occupation
which it necessitated, for an undertaking
that required neither education nor
skill, was depressing when success gave
no stimulant.

The steadiest, strongest, sturdiest Zulu
in the camp did not work under his
own blazing sun with more untiring zeal
than did these two whose muscular exertions
heretofore had been, for the most
part, achieved in sight of hills wreathed
with cool, white mists, and where grey skies
and fresh breezes had made physical effort
as much a delight, as here the continual
hot glare and barren surroundings caused

all labour to be unmitigated drudgery.
A singular disorder was visible in the
house : though far too full, of useful furniture
there was a woeful scarcity. A wooden
stretcher took up considerable space, as
did an iron bed which did duty as a chair
during the day ; several large trunks,
which were utilized as tables or seats as
required, occupied all the rest of room
available. A tin case held a few of the
edibles procurable, and guns, clothes,
crockery, violin case, books and papers
were strewed about in the confusion which
denotes the point of despair at which men
arrive when heat and want of space render
order an impossibility. Two or three
unframed pictures adorned the walls (hints
of thoughts which abode not iu any durance

vile), sketches by Ruy, with some
slight attempt at ornament above them,
horns of grotesque and varied form taken
from African spoil. So thus the interior
of the dwelling had a rare appearance ina
community where the bare necessities of
life were difficult to obtain, and where
mere embellishment was regarded as
waste. Few had the power of adapting
and arranging their abodes ; all looked
upon them as temporary, and excitement
prevailed too universally to allow
of men settling down to study ease or
elegance.

The two men were enjoying home-news.
Euy lingered longer over his sister's letter
than Archie did over Mrs. Campbell's, and
he was still intent upon it, when Archie,

expectant and eager, began ostentatiously
and noisily to unfold the newspapers which
had arrived with the mail. At length
Ruy discerned his friend's wish, and handed
Marie's letter to him, w T which, after he
had read, he returned, and resumed scanning
the papers, varying his perusal with
snatches of song.

Ruy w r as generally reserved and quiet
after receiving letters from home. Archie
had the advantage over him in the pleasure
of seeing his beloved's own handwriting, and
afterwards his spirits always rose several
degrees above their ordinary equilibrium.
Archie's singing to-day seemed to essay
to rival the volume of sound made by the
storm ; presently Ruy looked up from his
papers, and, smiling, said :

You seem to like to bear your own
voice, Archie."

"Like it! I should think so; many a
time I've nearly burst my windpipe in
perfect ecstacy at my own singing, though
I'll swear I never got up half that amount
of enthusiasm over any other fellow's ;
there's a rapture in one's own creations with
which you, with your artistic proclivities,
ought to sympathise ; though, after all, a
genius is never honoured by his own compatriots,
therefore I need expect no appreciation
from you."

I say, Archie, what a litter there is,
couldn't we straighten up*' said Ruy, ina
tone that indicated an apology for his
share of the jumble, with a desire that
Archie would negative his proposal for

exertion. " While these rains last there
will be no work in the kopje."

"And, while this heat lasts, no work in
the house, if I know my men," answered
Archie, wiping his bronzed face, and regarding
his surroundings with supreme
contentment. " If you like," he went on,
I will call one of the boys and make him
fulfil your despotic behests !"

The Chum now got up from where he
had been lying asleep, and, stretching himself,
seemed to fill the only bit of unoccupied
space in the place.

Oh ! no, don't ; the house is hot enough
without bringing another creature to complete
our suffocation. "What do you say
to facing facts, Archie, and making an
estimate ? We are getting to the far end

VOL. II. i

of our resources, aud we know the bank
won't give us credit for a farthing."

st I have a proud contempt for facts,
old man, and estimates I abhor as the
refuge of the penniless. Why resort to
such dastardly cowardice, and pettifogging
measures, on the eve of a find that shall
buy up the National-debt, and make the
Rothschild our serfs ?"

While Archie was holding forth he was

CD

also intent on a piece of mending, which
occupation somewhat suggested premeditated
poverty, and belied his professed
expectations ; he had taken off a sock
which no longer covered nor concealed his
toes, and was making frantic efforts to
pull the edges of the hole together, with a
tiny needle aud very fine cotton; the

Chum was meanwhile eyeing the deprived
foot questioningly. putting his head first
on one side and then on the other, evidently
thinking the whole proceeding
unusual and absurd.

Thou incarnate Micawber," answered
Ruy, sharpening a pencil. " Thou Job's
self in patience, thou sport of an ignis
fatuus, let rue do thee one kind service by
compelling thy optimist mind to face stern
realities."

11 Realities, indeed !" shouted Archie, the
noise of the rain thundering on roof and
ground like a battering train of artillery,
making it impossible for an ordinary
tone to be heard. " I'd like to know
what sterner reality you want than this.
The claims will be full of water, and

i2

we won't get any work done for days''
The more need for us to make an
estimate, and see how long we can hold
out," responded E-uy. " We haven't wasted
much of our substance in riotous living sofar,"
he added, as one of the Kaffirs in
their employ opened the door, and put on
the ground a pot containing a stew of
mutton and potatoes, from which rose a
strong odour of onions.

The Kaffir pointed solemnly upwards,
indicating that the rain had put the fire
out, and said gravely, "No cook, Bo
and departed.

Confounded sneak !" muttered Archie.
He wants the fire for his own pap, which
must be his last meal unless this be sufficiently
done. The interests of humanity demand

that I should have that fellow's head ;
he goads one to madness with his cool appearance,
he never looks warm even when
I'm panting, and it's just the aggravating
way with all these unmannerly knaves."

Hereupon Archie dived a fork into the
pot, and fortunately found the mixture
was sufficiently stewed ; so the friends ate
their dinner with small ceremony, and
afterwards Archie shouted to Plan, " Cook
the water for tea."

"Now," he said, banging the door,
"now for it, Rue; let's have it at one
gulp. I think I understand the case.
This is your idea of it : We are getting
to the end of our means, and, as there are
no returns yet, you don't see how we are
to keep up the concern and this extravagant

household ; you think that six boys
might do instead of twelve, and that w
have already spent so much money on plant
and labour, and so much time in proving
our ill luck, that we ought to make up our
minds to a move and try some other part
of the river; you think we ought to migrate
in this favourable weather"' (here the
hailstones beat on the roof like marbles)
to Gong Gong, Hebron, or Du Toit's ; you
think Pniel has been honoured long enough
by the presence of two landless, luck
individuals, and that elsewhere we might
have a better chance. Do I state the case
succinctly ?"

Archie paused while Ruy nodded assent,
and then he proceeded,

Well, I am not of your opinion.

We have already cleared a lot out of
the claim, and the more boys we have
the sooner we shall come upon the big
stone ; we did not need to plod on month
after month to prove to ourselves our run
of ill luck ; our object is to convince ourselves
and others that it has an end, and
it's on the turn now ; our first find will bea
three hundred carat, pure white octehe-
iron ! Let me flourish my statistics, Rue ;
we shall not find it to-day because the
sorting can't be done after sundown, nor
tomorrow because of the rains, nor perhaps
this week, but certainly next
week "

"Towards the end," interrupted Ruy,
sarcastically.

Well, I shouldn't wonder if it didn't

turn up in the beginning ; but it's in the
ground, you know, and I haven't * dag '
like a nigger all this while to give up at
the supreme moment ; we must find the
stone, Rue, so at present there's no more
to be said."

The foregoing was one of the many
conversations held between the friends on
the same subject, and they were always
ended with Archie's emphatic decision,
We must find it." Illogical as it was,
there was infection in its arbitrary conclusion,
and Ruy resumed his rending,
and Archie took to tuning his violin.

CHAPTER VIII.

"a life in league with fate."

T Halloo! Montgomery, Campbell, I

say, are you there ?" cried a voice

outside the house, two hours later the

same evening.

The door opened to let in a gust which
threatened to lift the erection from the
ground, and also a tall, thin, gaunt man
about thirty-five years of age. It had
been a very handsome face, was still fair

and bearded, which looked eagerly iu at
the doorway ; but it was now marked by
lines of care, though the intelligent and
humorous expression of the bright eyes
somehow contradicted the general sternness
of the other features.

u How are you, Morton? Come iu, and
tell us how goes."

The friends warmly welcomed their
visitor. He entered, and sat down, evidently
worn out with late exertion ; a
listless gaze presently came back into his
face which quite transformed it, a wearied
soul seemed to linger in that as wearied
body.

The apathy, the well-bred ease, the lines
on the face, the unconcealed poverty, the
careless and indescribable air about the

man proclaimed the gambler, the unsuccessful
gambler, who, through misfortune,
ill luck, and mischance, still clung
to the spar which he knew would undoubtedly
wreck him at last.

Why breast the waves of a fate that
is ever stronger than our strength?
Thus asks the soul of the doomed man
that is already far out on the treacherous
waters that ere long shall engulph him as
mercilessly as the hundreds of others who
were weak to resist the lure, the spell, and
the flush of a destiny which, even in its
moments of elation, inexorably constrained
them on to their doom.

Didn't expect visitors, especially me ?
Ah ! does the perfume of onions greet
my factories, or do I dream?" the

stranger asked, stooping to stroke the
Chum, and then beginning to wipe the
rain off his face.

The dream's over, and the onions demoralised
; they were silver skins Hare
brought me from the Pearl, food for the
gods, and there's one left for you to take
back to-night," said Archie, smiling.

I saw a cauliflower go for three sovereigns
at Bloemfontein Market to-day."
Morton spoke in a low tone always ; he
possessed a singularly musical voice.
"vegetables is scarce,' said the trader,
1 and money is plentiful,' and he soon
found a customer for his stock."

lt Have you come from there in this
storm ?" asked Archie.

Morton went on wiping the rain

from his clothes, but took no notice
of the question, and continued talking.

"It's my opinion, if a certain place,
traditionally believed to be very hot,
originally designed for Jews in general,
and now to be accommodated to the deserts
of diamond-brokers and Kopje Walluppers
in particular, if this place, I sa r , be not
yet prepared, I think the site of it should
be Du Toit's Pan. There's regular torture
handy, and if it could only be turned
on all the year round, instead of just a
spell of it now and then, why the whole
business could be carried on first-rate.
I'm nearly blind with the sand storm we
had there before the rain came on, hot
sands, too, in great clouds flying about
everywhere."

What took you over there ? ' Gambolling
' as usual, I suppose ?" asked
Ruy.

You're wrong for once ; didn't even
look in at JSTashwell's ; to be sure, the
mere fact of having no filthy lucre was not
my motive. I knew, if I went, I could no
more resist the viands on the buffet than
I could faro, so instead, I went into ' The
Vine,' smelt the grease and gravy, and
came away sublimely sated with odour.
But enough of my experiences, where's
the fiddle, Campbell ? Give us a tune."

Give you some bread and cheese, you
hungry ass," said Archie, getting up to
perform the part of host.

"Well, I've got a bun here," said Morton,
taking a roll of bread from his pocket,

"and I thought that you'd let me look
at your cheese while I ate it."

Morton, or the man who called himself
by that name  which might or might not
have been his own, for no one knew or
inquired anything about him or his history,
a mining camp being the last place
in the world for stating experiences ou
compulsion  was an unlucky digger, who,
having lost almost everything he possessed
in dismal efforts to master his fate, had
of late become too ill to work, and had
taken to gambling with the keen zest of
an old habit, and now and then the luck
went with him, and he won. He was considered
a reticent, proud man, though
his reticence arose from indifference, and
his pride from hopelessness. He never

complained of his misfortunes, and never
borrowed save at the last extremity. He
was welcomed wherever be liked to go,
though his wit often made its subjects
wince, but he frequented most this abode,
where association with its inmates seemed
more congenial to his tastes than the
conviviality of others elsewhere.

What have you been doing at Toil's
Pan, Morton ?" asked Ruy. " You look
as tired as if you had walked there and
back. What did you go for ?"

I went last nisrht on business," was
the evasive reply.

"Whose business ?" demanded Archie.

Well, if you will have it, little Gently
found a stone yesterday, aud linger offered
him about half its value, hinting that

he must have jumped it ; and Bently was
so fearfully hard up they wouldn't lose
sight of him here, and he did not want
the storekeepers to get wind of his find.
I advised him to keep quiet till he got
the chance of a good offer, and it was
quite distressing to see his face when he
told me he must realize to pay his digging
license to-day, so I saw nothing for it
but to go over to Toit's Pan. I had a
talk with a buyer, who offered the same as
linger, and said the stone was flawed.
Then I took it to another, who told me
it was worth double as much as the others
had allowed, but that he wasn't going to
buy any more till the next mail arrived.
Then I went to Ellsworth, who gave me a
fair price ; and Bently is all right now."

VOL. II. K

"Yes; and very likely drank, and you
half dead for your trouble," responded
Ruy.

Somebody says somewhere that there
is nothing better for men than that they
should eat and drink, and should make
their souls enjoy good in their labour.
I've been doing the eating, and Bently the
drinking, and yet I think the Chum is
more to be envied than either of us ; a
dog's life is, on the whole, free from care
and from the responsibility of the sins
of its fellows. Hamlet says, ' The dog
will have his day,' which assuredly few
men have, whether they will or not."

The Bently type generally has a good
many," said Archie. "It's quite wonderful,
too, how men of your calibre, easy to

be entreated, and so forth, minister to the
glorification of these whining fools whose
troubles always get the better of your
good nature."

I think," returned Morton, smiling,
"if you insist on canvassing my private
affairs, I'll bid you good night, and get my
death by going out in this storm."

Morton," said Ruy, " you haven't the
faintest idea of what you missed by your
absence to-day."

No, really. A find?"

"Yes  an enormous find."

Whose? yours ?"

Calm your perturbation," said Archie ;
u the find consists in the arrival of an
ox-waggon from Natal containing a white

woman."

k 2

Indeed ! ? ' returned Morton, indifferently,
little interested in the tidings, and,
having got the Chum beside him, he
stroked him, while Archie went on :

It was great fan, I assure you ; we
haven't had such an excitement for many
a day. Tom Poole brought the news into
camp, and, when the waggon was in sight,
a cheer was raised on each side of the
river, which continued for half an hour.
The occupant of the waggon must have
been bewildered at an ovation royalty
might have envied."

Soon after Morton managed to kiss the
Chum surreptitiously, put him gently
down, and then rose and bade his host
good night.

Groping his way through the rain aud

storm, he came to his own little wretched
tent, which he found in a deplorable state
of leakage. There was nothing of comfort
or convenience, and hardly room in
which to move. All it contained was
neither wet or damp, so Morton prepared
to spend the night half reclining on an
improvised bed (he usually slept on the
ground) composed of a chair and a box,
and sleep came readily enough to soul
and body, tired with monotonous endurance.
His brain was fagged and his
limbs worn, and, like many another whose
life's hazard had turned up nothing but

blanks, his last waking thought was, " Oh,
Lord ! how long ?"

CHAPTER IX.

THE DEAD LIFT IN A WEARY DAY.

Leo. " . Give me to drink mandragora.
Char. Why, madam ?

Leo. That I might sleep out this great gap of time
My Antony is away."

Shakespeare.

1VTEITHER Ingha nor Marie bad ever
confessed to each other their personal
interest in their lovers, but the tacit
understanding between them was significant
of an alliance, and their unspoken
sympathy implied a force that did not

weaken itself by words, for it was absolute
in its self-denying power.

Since parting with Archie in the moonlight,
Marie had been sad and cheerless,
even when excitement and gaiety surrounded
her. This was attributed to her
brother's absence, and, notwithstanding
her fears, had Ruy been with her, her
naturally gay nature might have asserted
itself. She was constantly haunted by
memories of one wild and cherished episode,
and sweet as were these memories,
and exulting as she did in the knowledge
of possessing Archie's love, she bitterly
reproached herself for having, though all
involuntarily, allowed him to confess it.

No dreams of the future could exorcise
this shadow on her past ; she brooded over

it till it became an ever-recurring sadness,
in which was mingled a dread she regarded
as consequent on her folly.

Is premonition of suffering always given
to those for whom it is lying in wait ?
Surely there is a genius for grief which
has its dawn with the earlier years. Marie
Montgomery knew that happiness could
come to Archie through no other channel
but her love, and, since he had acted uprightly,
it could not but be well with him,
and she hoped  poor casuist ! that her
wrong-doing would fail to brin its own

O O >

reward, as that would avert the joy his
chivalrous conduct had merited.

And sundered from sweet leisure in old
familiar places, while the season of fashion,
folly, care, and gaiety rolled on, there was

no lack of dance and song, of flattery and
fascination, but for her there was little
surcease or forgetfulness, and moments
came when she ignored her own beauty
and grace, and looked back upon her brief
dream as a thought of blissful summer
when winter is nigh.

In crowds she was lonely, and would
sometimes find herself wondering if, among
the strange faces, one that was dearest
and most familiar would suddenly beam
upon her. There was not even Sir Dallas
to divine her moods, and speak to her of
his friend, for he too was gone to seek
oblivion in new scenes, with a hope that
they would erase the impressions that
were, alas ! too indelibly engraved, as he
found when the new scenes were unfolded.

Archie's belief in his ultimate success
was absolute, and it made waiting easier
to him, and he never compromised Marie
by writing directly to her. He had been
balked in the past, and he now meant to
compel his fate, and ere long have time
and place to woo. He regarded Marie's
involuntary farewell as the turning of the
tide, and who dare foretell what the flood
shall ever be? His brief home letters
never mentioned her name, for in his invulnerable
faith, and in his belief in his
luck, he was full of ardour and sentiment ;
he had waited already so long, a year, a
month  it might be only a day  was not
much more ; better keep silent, remembering
how she loved him, than by scant
measures deal out hint or dole of comfort,

with half the world between them.
Mrs. Campbell always forwarded Archie's
letters to Marie, but they were all written
in an impersonal style, and were mere descriptions
of life at the Fields. The following
is a specimen of them, and, although
Marie could perceive from its perusal that
Archie wanted to make the best of his
circumstances, there was not much cheer
in it for her :

"My dear Mathilda and Father,

I can scribble only a few
lines by this mail, the rains having commenced,
news has stopped, at least the
digging has, and there could be no news
here which did not result from it. We
have not found the big stone yet, but

there's time enough ahead ; I'll be sure tolet
you know immediately it turns up, for
it must appear soon.

We have had an arrival in camp since I
last wrote  quite an acquisition. What
think you of a white woman here, a
person of means, too? She has got an
iron house put up, lined with green baize ;
a considerable and sumptuous undertaking.
There are actually three compartments in
this palatial residence, and the landlady
thereof keeps a table cTlwte with a tablecloth,
which, I assure you, is a sign of
distinction here. Mrs. Quarrier gives a
very well cooked dinner to those who
can afford to pay for it ; and many who
can't, go for it on credit. Morton tells me
she intends taking in patients from the

New Husk to board ; she will have a lively
time if she has open house to all the
sick diggers here, for somehow they are
numerous just now. Many of the fellows
drink so frightfully, drink if they find,
drink if they don't, and make all occasions
excuses for brandies. Pniel seems
to be the home of the drunken and the
free ! We don't set up for being either
examples or Pharisees, but have proved
that tea is the most invigorating, refreshing,
and cheap (the latter quality not being
a consideration with us f) beverage during
the heat. Everything else is bad, and,
when men come to see us, we always treat
them to unlimited tea; it becomes weak
towards the third cup, dear Mathilda, and
tasteless, too, when the milk is done. I

called out the other night, c Pass the
cream !' and Morton, up with his eyebrows,
and, in assumed scorn of the amenities of
civilisation, said, ' Conundrum ! what is
cream ?'

I fear you will think I am writing
great bosh ; but, indeed, I wish there was
something better to recount to you.
Your letters are unspeakable boons tous.
Always your affectionate son,

u Archie."

Ingha found the interest of her life to
result from the expectation that her hero
would ultimately pursue an art career,
and this was her incentive to great effort
in her own studies. She derived pleasure
from many of the gaieties into which her

mother took her, but through all thoughts
of her work swayed her inclinations, and
in some indefinable way Ruy was associated
with it. There was no hope too impossible,
nothing beyond her reach ; time and
distance could not utterly depress her
ardent young heart. Since her last evening
with Ruy at the Castle she had
changed, her feelings had deepened, and
a strange, sweet beauty seemed to have
come into all the common-place things
around her ; she was now learning the
meanings of life's questions, and her answer
to them all was love. Her art was
gaining what mere mechanical training
could never have effected, and her masters
pronounced her greatly gifted, and prophesied
rare success for her as an artist, if she
vol. ii. k

continued working, but this the Marchess
as strongly opposed as Kerinvean had
resisted the same proposal for Ruy.

Inffha's love was no less absorbing than
Marie's, but her devotion to her art gave-her
hopes a vital stimulus, and her day
dreams were embittered by no foolish self-reproach,
to which mortification Marie had
involuntarily so subjected herself that the
small error of her life had become magnified
into a great offence.

Ingha's faith in the future was also
stronger than Marie's, she hoped where
Marie despaired, and could be glad when
only a solitary gleam pierced the mist, a
gleam that Marie, perchance because of
tears, could not discern.

Society yielded pleasure to the imaginative

girl ; she endowed the people around
her with possession of varied gifts, the
faintest indications of qualities above the
average being lures to Ingha, and where
her acquaintances were impressionable she
had the power of bringing out the latent
good. Winning and original, she secured
the admiration of all, and not a few men,
who were considered very eligible husbands
by the belles of this season, would
gladly have become Ingha's suitors ; but
she either did not or would not understand,
and smiled alike bewitchingly at
them all, so men and women too, perforce,
considered her only a girl who had yet to
learn the intricacies of the matrimonial
game in which inexperience and romance
were never trump cards.

VOL. II. L

Every letter which Marie received from
her brother was eagerly perused by Ingrate
friends were like sisters in their confidence,
though each was reticent with
regard to her feelings. Never once did
Ruy write Ingha's name, and when she
had read his first letter, she knew it would
be so. " Canna swerve !" she whispered
to her longing, for she felt her hero had
some reason for silence which one day he
would reveal.

And yet his letters in these months of
absence were her greatest delight, without
them her thoughts would have been all
conjecture, for it was something to know
what he was doing: and thinking at the
other side of the world.

Had Ruy not been aware of Ingha's

future fortune, he would not have maintained
this silence ; but he too found hope
iu the gloom, and knew that the star of
his destiny shone brightly. The thought
of Ingha was bliss enough for the probation,
and was more real than the pain of
uncertainty and waiting. The belief in
her fidelity was the most precious verity
in his life.

Archie regarded the separation from his
belove as one long tarrying day that
would bring the dawn of a glorious morrow
; to Ruy hope was so real, his thoughts
of Ingha so inwoven with his life, that there
was no separated interval ; she was now,
and always would be, beckoning him to
his " glorious port." It was Ingha in the
past, in the present, in the future, for ever

l 2

and ever, Ingha ! And be wrote of ibis
life as a temporary emergency, and its
new, odd experiences were not lost upon
bim, and there was always some description
wbicb proved suggestion of loving
thought for Ingba. Sbe divined that sbe
was not forgotten ; sbe judged bis faithfulness
by ber own ; sbe reverenced the reticence
that left the past untoucbed,and every
word addressed to Marie became precious
to ber, tbougb all were of the same mood
as one wbicb Marie received about this
time, and thus sbe read :

PnieL
Dearest Marie,

"A difficult task to me is the

thought of beginning a letter to you wbicb

must be ended, aud never a bint of good

luck related. Your disappointment is a
sad matter to us. Archie always says
'It must come! 1 And so we plod on,
though I see no reason to have faith
in Chance. Comparatively we are well
off just now ; the rains have commenced,
and some of the diggers are so wretchedly
housed it is quite pitiable ; we, at
least, have shelter, and that is saying a
stood deal.

I went down this evening to look at
the river (there will be fresh-run salmon
in clearer waters to-day, pools I wot of !),
what a sight it was ! The sun had just
set, and these vast skies were awful in
their aspect of challenge, long repressed as
it has been. Masses of grey clouds banked
up the horizon from whence the sun

had disappeared, reminding me of some
words of old Peter's :

' D'ye no' see hoo sleepy the big
clouds are, they've watched the breeze o'
the sun gain toon, and are no' cabin' a fig
about it, but they'll waukin up i' the noo
to tell their ain story.' Above them the
sky was crimson and gold, and as I gazed
the lightning broke the grey wall, and
every few seconds the flashes appeared ;
one storm threatened another in opposite
horizons, and soon waged wild, convulsive
warfare, a perpetual roll, the fierce muttering
of the rods never ceasiuof for all the
sudden crashes, surely typical of the crack
of doom.

The Vaal river is now an impetuous

flood, brown and muddy, bearing innumerable
branches and logs on its breast from
Kaffirland ; trees that were yesterday on
its banks seem now to be growing in
the river, their trunks covered by the
rushing torrent ; how cool for their roots
to have all the gush of the flood about
them after the parching weeks of drought !
The w 7 allow branches bend low, and coyly
try to dip their scorched foliage right into
the stream ; they have been trying so long
w T hen every day the river was receding
farther and farther, now they sway up and
down, as if afraid that i once they actually
touch the water the remorseless current
will make the same havoc of them it
has made of their poor brethren, which

are being borne down so fast through
so many lonely lands to the waiting
sea.

Returning here, I paused to look fora
sight I missed a week ago, the rains, I
suppose, having prevented it.

A waggon has been out spanned for
many months a few yards from our enclosure,
and on the box of it an old man
sits nightly for hours. This old man is a
remarkable individual ; he has a beautiful
face, clear cut and refined ; is very deaf,
but he has the most perfect manners,
quite a pr&ax cavalier, I assure you, and a
carpenter by profession ! Requiring some
work done a while ago, we sent for him,
and since then he has been here often.
He makes all kinds of excuses to come

and talk. "We have many strange a story
told us by our Cockney friend, who came
out during the Kaffir war. He once
said, ' People tell me I would not know
London now, but I say, if they put me
down in St. Paul's Churchyard, I'd find
any given place within five miles !' We
did not attempt to undeceive him. One
day I had left him here working, and
when 1 returned T found him looking very
earnestly at one of my sketches on the
wall. He had not noticed me coming iu,
so I did not disturb him, and by-and-by I
heard a sigh, followed by the words, ' Ah,
well, I suppose I shall have to go
back to painting, after all !' (He is only
seventy-nine years of age !) He perceived
me, and made excuses for taking the

liberty of examining my property, ' but
he added, apologetically, ' I did something
in the arts myself once. I painted a picture,
and sent it to the exhibition. It
was at the time of important family
changes, and I don't know what became
of it !'

' What was the subject, Nestling
I asked, timidly, fearing to trouble the
old man, and yet not wishing to be indifferent.


'A duck and a drake V was the reply
given with enthusiasm. Nestling lives in
his covered waggon, which contains all
the necessaries of his trade, and a heterogeneous
medley of other things, from
which people help themselves in the bland
way peculiar to a Commune like this, and

which is here called l borrowing,' though,
if it were done less openly, it would be
styled ' jumping,' and execrated accordingly.
Neither loss nor age depresses
Nestling ; he is as hopeful and energetic
as a boy, and every night he sits under
the small front awning of his waggon, still
as a statue, and looking at the sky. Hour
after hour we see his beautiful profile with
a background of stars. Amidst all the
din and activity of the camp, this deaf,
quaint, serene creature gives a sense of
repose and thought.

"Archie has just thrown aside his violin
and said :

' In the words of the immortal somebody,
" To the foul fiends with the fine
arts." I am utterly exhausted watching

you write ; you must be inventing ;
it's quite impossible all those pages of
penmanship can be honest truth Fearing
I may wear out your patience also, I
will now say good night, dear Marie.
Yours always,

Rut."

CHAPTER X.

FLOWERS 0' THE FOREST."

 . . . Lilies of all kinds,
The flower-de-luce being one ! . . .
To make you garlands of, and my sweet friend
To strew him o'er and o'er."

Shakespeare.

npHE scene was London, and the time a
-*- hot June night. Out in the English
meadows there was scent of hawthorn
and wild-flowers, and in the woods the
nightingales sang for rapture and love.

Circumstance and custom held annual
sway, and the season, when even the
thought of crowded rooms and noisy
streets was irksome, kept society together,
ekeing out its spirit over innumerable
engagements that had not even
the charm of novelty to vary their humdrum
round ; and for it the hawthorn
bloomed in vain, and the nightingales
warbled to the fading flowers alone. The
songs of the woods were melodies for the
gods, but were all unheard by those whose
leisure had no moments in which to listen
to untrained choristers. \Vhat need for
birds and breezes and the wordless music
of the streams ? had they not all the art
of all the world crammed in a city's space
for their difficult diversion ?

But some there were whose hearts
were riot altogether given over to gaiety,
to whom the vapid pastimes of the hour
could bring neither joy nor forgetfulness.


An English Duchess received royalty
to-night ; Court beauties, ambassadors,
heroes, statesmen, and great personages
from far countries were present, and the
Montgomery party, arriving late, found a
brilliant Q-atherin. The rooms were all
in gala array, and were exquisitely fragrant
with flowers. The magnificent ballroom
was decorated with roses in such
masses and clusters that it seemed as
if all the roses from all the gardens of
the world had been culled for service
here.

Kerinvean's bevy of fair women was
infinitely the most beautiful group, and
their entrance was at once observed by all.
Lady Kinaire had arrived earlier ; she was
radiant as usual, and the Durnple-Brig-
worth sapphires added to the brightness
of her appearance ; she was talking to
a handsome old veteran in the uniform
of a general, when Marie, passing her
after a dance, was stayed by the hand of
her friend on the arm.

"My dear little Marie Montgornerie,"
(Marie was at least six inches taller than
the speaker), " here is an old friend of
your father's, who recognized your 
face before I saw you to-night.
General Gordon, Miss Montgornerie. Kin-aire
will take me to your people, and I will

explain that I have left you, my dear, in
excellent keeping."

The bright face nodded, and the sapphires
gleamed, and she was gone.

You are very much like your father,
Miss Montgomery ; we were a long time
in the same regiment, and friends ever
afterwards."

Indeed !" responded Marie. " I am sq
glad to have met you."

The old man offered to conduct her
through the rooms, and added,

My cousin lets me go where I like,
and I know the nicest corners in her
house ; but I am quite ashamed of being
so ancient to-night ; it is very gracious of
you to make all the younger men envious
of my good fortune."

vol. II. M

Mario smiled at her knight's compliment,
and her sweet manner made the
old soldier feel that the years of his life
had been brief; to-night he was no longer
old.

I think," answered Marie, timidly
glancing at his decorations, " it cannot bethe
first time they have been envious of
you."

Braver men than I, my dear, have
died unrewarded, but they have mostly
been regretted by wife or child ; none such
will weep for me, and the younger men
would not have envied me my liege's
favour had they known there was nothing
of love or hope to make me rejoice beyond
the fame and glory; but to-night your
familiar face reminds me of my youth, and

they need not envy me any longer, since
that is lost beyond recalling."

These two wandered in and out the
gay throng, and at length General Gordon
said :

If you will permit me, I will take you
away from the noise to my cousin's sanctum
; doubtless she has had some special
freak performed there, being the place
where she says she tries and fails, though
we all know she is too gifted for
that, and her music-room is simply
charming."

They now entered a large salon, the
walls of which were exquisitely painted in
accordance with the occupation that was
evidently pursued there. There were all
kinds of musical instruments, and 

2

numerable books iu the room, but the
most remarkable thing was the temporary
adornment of flowers. White lilies in the
most luxuriant profusion, the knowest
narcissus, the purest of jonquils, and stateliest
of white blooms from the orchid tribes,
of which hundreds were hiding among soft
gold and green moss and delicate fern.

You admire this room, Miss montgomery
? So do I ; but my cousin quarrels
with me sometimes because I don't
admire her cut flowers ; she maintains that
the very fact of their being so short-lived
adds to their beauty, and says they are
like sunsets that come aud are gone, to
give joy for the moment and thrill the
heart as nothing can that is enduring.
But I hold that to be sophistry. I have

seen this room like a tropical verandah
with its decorations of blooms of southern
growth, and I've seen it a mere bower like
those of the north country, all bracken
and honeysuckle. These lilies are the
favourite flowers, but I don't really know
how she manages to get so many together."


There can be no more left to bloom
this year ; even the buds have all been
brought, I imagine. What a lovely place
for music !"

Yes," replied the general. " I have
heard wonderful strains here, and I have
often seen Signora This and Mademoiselle
That gnash their teeth with vexation at
having their professional voices contrasted
with the amateur skill the Duchess gets

together under her roof. Here comes her
eldest boy, quite a genius. George, how
goes the violin ? "Will you play something
for me ?"

A handsome boy of twelve laughingly
answered :

Oh ! general, mother says it is still
only the fiddle ; but I'll play for you if 3011
like."

Do, my boy ; my friend here, Miss
Montgomery, is fond of music, else she
would not be her father's daughter."

"I suppose, general," said the frank,
self-possessed child, tuning a violin, " that
it must bo Scotch music. Mother says
she likes singing Scotch songs for you,
because you understand them better than
anyone else."

"Yes, and love them too. I've seen
more genuine feeling over ' The Campbellss
are coming ' and ' Auld Lang Syne ' than
over all the other music I've ever listened
to. Call it by any nation's name you like,
if it has the real ring in it, you may be
sure it is Scotch, or borrowed from one of
our tunes."

The boy began in a quiet manner to
play that wild, touching melody " Flowers
o' the Forest ;" he had an exquisite ear
and no small mechanical skill, but the
pathos in the child's performance was
simply genius. It was an air thrillingly
familiar to Marie from Archie's oft playing,
and, as it ended, an audible sigh
escaped her, and a tear was on the old
general's cheek as he said,

Thank you, my lad, thank you."

The young violinist put his instrument
aside, and, smiling to them, left the
room.

The general went on.

The last time I heard that song was
in the Crimea, from a young man's lips ;
he was humming it while waiting orders
from me. I was in the room adjoining,
and I detained him purposely, for he had
been doing the work of three men all the
night before, and he was impatient to be
back at the trenches. He was every inch
a soldier, I never knew a braver, and he
was dear to me as if he had been my own
son. He did not know I was at hand
listening to his song ; but such a voice it
was, clear, soft, and pathetic, and to me

it seemed to be telling of a great sorrow
nobly borne. My boy was killed next
day, sabre cut, hand to hand fighting, ten
to one and no reserves. He pleaded so
hard to lead that forlorn hope, I think
despair made him eager to meet his fate.
That same night I found under his uniform,
stained with his precious blood, a
packet containing a tress of golden hair,
and the words of that song written in a
girl's handwriting on paper that was
stamped with a coronet, and I buried them
with my boy. Some time afterwards,
here in England, I mentioned his name in
recounting an affair in the Crimea, and a
beautiful, young married woman grew
pale as she listened, as if wistfully asking
more tidings of the dead. Three months

after the fragile Countess was buried in
Italy, and then I heard her story ; rank
had parted my boy and her. You must
be wearied of my garrulous memory, my
dear. You sighed, too, when the song
was ended ; has the air then an association
for one so young?"

Sighs always follow sad memories,
I think, and mine has no wiser plea"'

Anon these two were joined by Ingha
and Kerinveau.

tC Ah, Marie," said Ingha, with enthusiasm,
" St. Cecilia has a perfect temple
here ; I never saw more appropriate offerings
than these pure white lilies. No
wonder you have been hiding from us ;
were you waiting the advent of the priestess
of song or personating her yourself ?

Are these flowers gifts from your votaries ?
What fitting tributes, my fair, sweet
saint!"

"Yes, they are beautiful," said Marie,
wistfully regarding the death-like whiteness
of the clustering lilies, "but I was
thinking all the time, dear, that they
looked like flowers culled to scatter over
and cover a new-made grave !"

CHAPTER XI.

DEBORAH QUARRIER.

Ever as she walks she hath a sober grace,

Making bold men abashed and good men glad."

M

RS. QUARRIER, the white woman,
who arrived from Natal in an

ox waggon, had not been three months at

Pniel before her fame was established and

her canteen recognised as an institution.

Her house proved a harbour of refuge for

the wrecks of which buffeting misfortune

made, in those early days, so great a
number on the banks of the Vaal.

The canteen was known by many appellations,
for a reckless, foolish, and
absurd nomenclature prevailed. The
Harem, the United Service, the Travellers,
the Life-boat, and Beulah were some
of the names given to it, and the owner
was by turns called the Right Bower, the
Kooino-or, the Pilot, and the New Mother
in Israel ; though no one ever dreamed of
accosting her by any other than her
rightful title.

A large and fine figure had Mrs.
Quarrier, and a large and fine face, too.
A strong, hardy, yellow-haired woman was
she, with a distinct and clear voice, and a
manner that was apt, in its serious preoccupation,

to rebuke the inertness which
was too common among many of the
loungers round and in the canteen.

Mrs. Quarrier's table-d'hote was frequented
by innumerable diggers, some of
whom could afford to pay regularly, and
all of whom were tired of eating repasts
which they themselves had prepared. The
canteen was, like its owner, capable of
tiding over great emergencies ; it was incredible
the number of people who could
be accommodated in the dwelling after
they had succumbed to the condition
which o\ave them admission to lodge there.
Men had to be ill before Mrs. Quarrier
found room for them ; she had been heard
to say, as excuse for refusing quarters to
people in health, " Well folk can do for

themselves anywhere, and I've no skill in
managing men till they're quite helpless."


By degrees the hospital's dimensions
increased, and, had there been a businesslike
person to manage its finance, a fortune
might have been made ; but its
landlady was paid sometimes with thanks
alone, occasionally with small, flawed
stones, and oftener with profuse promises
which depended for fulfilment on the
freaks of a capricious chance which rarely
realised the expectation of Mrs. Quarrier's
debtors, though, when it did, diggers had
been known to take their finds to her
before offering; them for sale, and had
bidden her "pick and square up." And
diamonds passed through Deborah's hands

as if she had been a broker, and in her
silly, honest directness, when she knew a
stone was of more value than the debt it
was meant to cancel, she sold it at once,
and returned the surplus.

No one ever saw Mrs. Quarrier's face in
any state but hot, flushed, and clean ; and
no one ever observed her listening to the
conversations that were held under her
roof. She was always occupied with her
hard work ; but, nevertheless, there was nothing
of importance going on in the camp
which was unknown to this acute and
prudent woman.

Mrs. Quarrier's object in coming to the
Diamond fields had been to look for her
only child, as graceless a son as ever was
yearned over by a fond aud foolish mother.

Jack Quarrier had been a wild, dare-devil
soldier ; a rough rider, too ; but the liberty
accorded to a trooper seemingly had not
given him freedom enough, and he deserted
from his regiment in England just
when the mania for rushing to the Cape
for diamonds developed. No trace of him
could be found, for he was clever. There
was hereditary genius from the mother in
his brain, and he did not execute any of
his devilments in an ordinary, clumsy way.
Jack had been three years before the mast
in his boyhood, and his mother had her
mute surmises as to how and where he

had gone.

Her husband died in the interval between
Jack's disappearance and the commencement
of Mrs. Quarrier's travels.

VOL. IT. N

After burying him, and having worn deep
mourning, wife-like, quietly and without
complaint about the inaction she underwent
for six months, the motherly element
in the woman impelled her to put her
house in order, and start off and fulfil her
fate. Not that Mrs. Quarrier rose to any
sublime height in declaring her intentions
; she merely said to her neighbours
:

"I am going to seek my Jack. If ibis
own mother don't go after him, I reckon
he'll have no one to turn to should ill
come to him; besides, what I've got will
do as well for two as for one."

Deborah did not take into account
Jack's peculiarly economical turn of
mind, nor his unlimited capacity for spending

whatever money he could lay hands
upon, but she, being his mother, was the
last person who could be expected to draw
out an accurate programme of the future,
based upon a truthful estimate of Jack's
character.

For a while people at Pniel wondered if
she had a husband whom she had left to
worry through by himself, wondered if she
were a widow and wanted to venture on
another matrimonial scheme, and wondered
many other unspeakable things
about her ; but on all these personal
topics Mrs. Quarrier volunteered no information.
The conjectures might have
gone on in the same fashion always, but
more white women appeared on the scene,
and the widow found it necessary to inns



form the frequenters of her canteen who
she was.

She related that she had been the wife
of a corporal who had inherited some
money just before his death, and he had
willed it all to her. Also that she was on
the look-out for their son, who had left
England some time ago without consulting
her as to his destination, and that she
meant to search for him till she found
him, and this sojourn in Pniel was one of
her waiting by the way for God only knew
where !

It was a very simple story, simply told
in the presence of Montgomery, Arch
Morton, and a dozen others, just after
dinner. Mrs. Quarrier stood nervously
twisting the ring on the third finger of

her left band, the big, honest, kind hands
that were never at rest, never at ease in
idleness. She ended her narrative by
saying :

u This is my own wedding-ring, gentlemen.
Once we were very poor in Bristol,
and had to pawn it, and, several years
after, in Belfast, Quarrier got a present
of a pound from an officer, and we were
pretty well to do then, and he said we'd
go and buy another ring, and we went to
a jeweller's shop, a place where secondhand
things were sold, and Quarrier made
me try on a lot of rings, but this one
fitted me best, and I looked inside and
there was my own name, and the date of
our marriage, and it's no use for the women
over there  who can't behave themselves

in kraal or cottage  to try to mal:
me out to be an respectable woman. If
I find my Jack, he'll take my part."

Nearly all the men to whom Mrs.
Quarrier was speaking were well-born and
well-bred also. Two of her listeners had
regularly attended levees in royal England
; another, who suppressed his title at
the Fields, had been received at several
Courts in Europe ; a fourth, a bishop's
son, more sifted than his father, inisfht
one day have become an archbishop, but
that he was far from ecclesiastical disposed.
They all rose, taking the lead
from Archie ; they instinctively felt the
power of a good woman's influence, and
had no hesitation in recognizing it.

Archie held out his baud as he passed
his landlady, and said :

I sincerely wish you success in your
quest, Mrs. Quarrier."

Each man shook hands and said a kindly
word as he passed out, and, after they had
all gone, she sat down and wept, for their
sympathy keenly touched her. Deborah
was a rare creature ; indifference might
have braced her, upbraiding she could
have borne with equanimity, but kindness
found a swift response in the heart that
was filled with speechless tenderness and
lowliest devotion.

CHAPTER XII.

DOWN ON THEIR LUCK.

el Cursed is the ground for thy sake."

I ir.XESis.

Diamonds again. One or two men likes the
name of diamonds; but not many, There's the disadvantage
about gold and diamonds that you have to
dig for them, and to dig darned hard, and to dig by
yourself mostly."

From "Time Golden Butterfly."

A WHOLE year and no luck. There

had been finds of extraordinary value

quite close to where our heroes worked ;

even they had picked up a stone here and
there from their surface sorting, but
whose price fell far short of paying the
expenses thereof. Their claim was now a
huge pit, and heaps of boulders, slack, and
refuse were piled near it.

There are no laws by which diamonds
can be found : a man will work on doggedly
and indefinitely in the same place
without success (despite the claim having
been abandoned by its first owner after
months of unrewarded persistence therein),
only because, forsooth, a fifty carat white
stone was found three feet off, close to the
surface.

Another, thinking that these treasures
are concealed in remote places and far
apart, will choose a distant spot whereinto

dig and stubbornly labour on, spending
his all of energy, money, and hope, excavating
a vein of rock, the doing of which
shall be unto him as unrewarded aud
grievous as the torture of Sisyphus.

A third, more rare, will aver that there
is a law governing the seeming caprice
which scatters diamonds so unaccountably
in a few acres of otherwise barren ground
in the middle of a great solitary desert,
though, for his own eccentric mode of
obeying it, he may have no better plea than
that " it looks likely ;" or that he dreamt
he should find in this spot ; or, more
absurd still, he thinks that by working
up against the prevailing winds he will
succeed.

A whole year and no luck.

The fierce storms which had greeted
Campbell and Montgomery three mouths
after their arrival had died away, the
floods had dried up, aud the brief glories
of winter, with its cloudless days and cold,
clear, starlit nights, had gradually merged
into scorching heat again. Bloodshot
eyes, inflamed from ceaseless sorting under
a pitiless sun, were looking yearningly for
the rains to stop the blinding sandstones
that lacerated and stung almost to madness
; but low down in the horizon the
brazen clouds lay for weeks in inflexible
strongholds, and sickness was rife in the
camp, fever and sunstroke, and deadlier,
self-inflicted pain.

Mrs. Quarrier was now so busy tending
her sick in her iron house adjoining the

canteen, that she had rarely time to think
of her Jack save in her dreams, though,
when a patient from a distance arrived,
she was always nervous and ill at ease till
she had well scanned the new-comer's
features.

There were some who bought ground
one day and the next unearthed a fortune,
but also there was a larger number who
laboured, taking no respite from the
slavery of digging or the monotonous
drudgery of sitting at a sorting-table hour
after hour, day after day, week after week
in the scorching sun-blaze till the poor
Boeotian had been cheated so often of
their hope that to have found at last
would have been a surprise not all at once
to be credited. What wonder if some of

these luckless ones grew desperate, these
poor, ill-starred, vanquished creatures who
knew their all had gone iu a losing game,
perhaps the hoard of years, or the price of
a commission, or maybe the small patrimony,
but all thrown into the venture to
which the illusion of picking up diamonds,
without even stooping, had lured them ;
what wonder if their courage flagged ?

Now and then a man said the work was
easy and climate glorious, for he had
found himself suddenly the possessor of
more wealth than could have been earned
by him in labour in all the years of his
life. And another who had worked perchance
not three yards distant for many
a dreary month, with never a glitter to
dazzle his aching eyes, cursed the ground

vol. ii. n

that was barren to him, and, viewing the-luck
at his side, swore that God aDd the
devil were leagued against him.

A whole year and no luck !

A dreary period, though excitement was
not lacking in the camp. There were both
new aud old methods for ettinor rid of time
and money : gambling for the dissipated,
loafing for the Bohemian, and smirnblinor

CD ' O O

for the impatient. For the most part it
was a prodigal population, and what was
won easily was often as quickly spent.
Never a diamond was unearthed but a Jew
was ready with his tempting gold, alert to
underrate the value of the find, keen to
offer and close with the bargain, or be off
with it altogether ; the old Israelitish
cheapening trick, which here was in full

swing, had neither lessened its weight nor
changed its mode since the buyer was
wont in Judea to say, " It is naught, it is
naught." The Jew prevailed as in ancient
days, and the digger regarded him as a
god-send, but alas ! luck was now becoming
very scant on the banks of the Vaal.

It was luck all were straining after.
Ruy had no faith in it, though Archie's
belief in ultimate success was still unassailable
; sometimes he thought their
present chance of fortune might be
slipping by unheeded, but, when Ruy ventured
to hint at grim failure, he would say r
hopefully :

One inch to left or right may make

all the difference, old man ; we must try

with our picks a while longer."

vol. ii. n

And Archie worked on, but be believed
too that the " time and chance ' which
happened to all might already have
passed unrecognised and insignificant.

A whole year and no luck.

The climax had come when Archie,
though he did not openly confess it to his
friend, felt that his spirit could not hold
out much longer. Alas ! that I should have
to record it, that the one who till now
had been cheerful aud confident, was
not invulnerable to the common conviction
that twelve months and no luck
meant that there would be no luck for
them. They both seemed to be standing
on the slippery edge of the precipice
which overhangs the waters of despair,
and the look-out was over a desolate, hopeless

region, and they were in the mood

CD * wj

when men say pitifully of their comrades
in a like plight, that " they are down on
their luck, God help them !"

And the Chum ? During the heat the
young men ate scantily, for food was
beginning to get up to famine prices,
and the Chum, comprehending the circumstances,
was wont to get fed at Sanger's ;
he went regularly every day at breakfast-time,
and one morning brought back an
uncooked shoulder of mutton, and laid it
with a look of triumph, wagging his tail,
at Euy's feet. He had never succumbed
till now, but at last the heat overpowered
him ; he lost his self-respect, felt limp,
dirty, and nerveless. He burrowed holes
in the sand, tunnel-shaped, large enough

VOL. II. o

to lie in with his nose above ground, and
one of the Zulus would throw water over
the place to keep it for the moment temperate,
but w r hen the sun dried and baked
the sand again, the dog would, in a way
peculiar to himself, ask for more water ;
but even this grew monotonous. He had
been content enough while the nights
remained cool, but now the state of things
had become unbearable.

He had never fraternized with anyone,
was never found straying from either Rumor
Archie, and up and down, where their
peregrinations took them, Chum indicated
by his patient, waiting expression that he
was in attendance. He was always preoccupied,
never could be attracted by cat
or cur, wore a look as if he were just

starting for home, and his dainty walk, ashe
scarcely touched the ground, gave the
idea that he regarded this as an alien
land.

He never had ordinary dog frolics with
any of the innumerable mongrels that
barked and yapped half the night through.
If one of them edged up to his side, and
dared to accost him with a dog's " Who
are you ?" Chum met the salutation
calmly, and rarely seemed disturbed or
indignant, unless the querist insisted on
a reply. Reticence was peculiar to this
lonesome creature, and the only answer
he vouchsafed was a sniff and the turning
of his body broad-side to the other
dog, which was done to hint his lineage or
likeness to the fierce jackal. The mono

2

grey always took to his heels, as if he had
some weighty business in hand and had no
time for further parley, and the Chum
would stretch himself and yawn, as if interruptions
of this sort bored him greatly.
But now he panted and could find no relief
from the cruel monotony of heat, and besides,
a whole year and no luck ! well, that
was hard, very hard, even on a poor little
dumb and solitary Eskimo !

CHAPTER XIII.

A DINNER AT THE DRY DIGGINGS.

Their various cares in one great point combine,
The business of their lives that is, to dine."

Young.

THE demand for everything was now
becoming so much greater than the
supply that the store-keepers were able to
make their own terms, and financial
embarrassment was very common. Government
did not interfere save by levying
licences, so that the digging population

did not benefit by being under British
rule. Many of those in high places were
men in no wise fitted to govern the mass
of people that here on the Diamond Fields
increased daily, but their salaries, were
secure, and there sprang up an official
show of Government aids and clerks colonial
orthodox, but which caused much
discontent amongst those who had to pay
for the farce, thereby compelling the Home
Government subsequently to disestablish
this hierarchy.

At length Rus and Archie made up their
minds to leave their profitless claim for a
while, and prospect elsewhere. Both dreaded
migrating altogether to New Rush, but,
news of enormous finds there having reached
them, Ruy decided to go and look round,

while Archie, who was not well, intended
to try a few days down the river at Wal-deck's,
and both agreed to meet again a
week hence at Pniel.

Ruy started at sundown, slept at the
Half-way House, and finished the remainder
of the twenty-five miles next morning.
Time did not seem of so much importance
to him as it had appeared a year ago ; unsuccessful
dioin had convinced him that
he could reach the beginning of his life's
purpose only by slow and weary steps.
No marvel if he were disappointed ; even although
he had never, like Archie, felt the
certainty of quickly achieving a fortune,
he had earnestly believed that a year of
hard, manual labour would have effected
something, and that, at least, at the end of

it, they would not have been poorer than
at its commencement. Home news lately
had not been particularly cheering.
Marie wrote a great deal about her
friend, but the lover ever desires tidings
to be straight from the heart of his beloved
to his own.

Ruy trudged on, his thoughts dwelling
upon Anglia as they always did when be
was alone. The Chum accompanied his
master over the sandy route that constant
traffic had turned into a highway, which
was now busy with waggons that were
conveying the unceremoniously piled up
belongings of marching diggers bound for
the New Rush.

There was often much good humour
among this roving population ; their primitive

travelling was beguiled by singing,
whistling, and smoking; their accidents and
emergencies developed qualities of ingenuity
and adaptability of which the possessors
had not thought themselves capable,
and humorous and grotesque were many
of the makeshifts suggested by those who
were always as willing to lend a helping
hand as to join in the laugh that followed
disaster. They all knew, these children of
Luck, though they were poor vagrants today,
tomorrow they might rank with the
Rothschild.

On arriving at Du Toit's Pan, the first
man Ruy met whom he knew was Morton,
eating a bun.

Say, Montgomery, how goes it ? Come
on your own business or Bently's ? Glad

to see you anyhow." And the two men
shook hands warmly.

11 1 have walked over," returned Buy,
"to find out about things; how does it
run r

u Far, far from gay ; things are looking
bad with me, but that's no news to you.
It won't run to anything but buns for
breakfast now. I think I'll emulate the
Ancient Briton and share my last loaf.
Here, Chummie, it's fit neither for you nor
for me, but we'd have daintier food if I
could still dig."

The experience of bun eaters on compulsion
is that the first bite is always the
best ; as appetite presses well into the
heart of the bun, the enthusiasm abates,
and even the currants pall, and soon

the innate sickness and native toughness
become wof fully apparent, and the premonitory
symptoms of dyspepsia and consequent
depression make themselves felt.

"Have you got a piece of ground on this
new kopje ?" asked Montgomery.

Oh, yes," returned Morton, "it was
parcelled out yesterday; the ceremony
merely consisted in Finlayson calling out
at every few feet : ' Whose is this ?' I
had turned over a few spadefuls ready, and
called out, when he came to where I stood,
1 It's mine.' You can look it over if you
like before I go back to Pniel ; I thought
you or Campbell might manage to work it
and we'd go shares. I can't dig any more,
and the only excitement I have now is at
Nashwell's."

"But something is making you look
awfully seedy ; do you stay all night at
Nashwell's ?"

Oh no, not all night, but the time
passes quickly. I have been here only four
days, and I'm going back to the river tomorrow
for my things. Shall we celebrate
your arrival by dining together at the
< Pig and Whistle ' ?"

u All right," answered Euy. " Meanwhile
I have plenty to do."

And I'm going to my claim, and
to-night we'll talk over business matters.
Avoid temptation ; muse on the coining
banquet and eschew buns. So long."

Six p.m. A small verandah covers the
narrow entrance to the well-known canteen
called " Pig and Whistle," around which is

grouped a motley collection of men, mostly
young. There is the lucky digger in his
clean flannel shirt, and the unlucky digger
with his unkempt beard and oft untidy
garb ; the Jew diamond-buyer and the
German broker ; the digger, lucky or
otherwise, easily distinguishable from the
buyer and broker by his bronzed face, his
inevitable flannel shirt, and a certain indescribable
swagger of self-assertion, inspired
by an instinctive conviction of
superiority, which is always discernible in
the free adventurer when contrasted with
the crafty trader.

A blue haze of smoke hovers about
this group, issuing from the short, black
pipes of the diggers and from the cigars
of the others. Towering above the assembly

are the broad shoulders and handsome
head of Montgomery, and beside
him, remarkable also for his height, stands
Morton, a somewhat indifferent and contemptuous
expression appearing on his
features, as is usual when he is brought
in contact with the diamond-buying children
of Israel.

The dogs go in and out among the
crowd, as if asking each other the news
of the clay ; the well-fed mastiff and the
ragged cur, the Australian kangaroo-hound
and the English pointer, the Scotch
terrier and the Dutch mongrel. Chief
among them all for beauty and well-bred
grace is the Chum, who attempts neither
to rival his fellows nor to attract their
notice, but jealously eyes the movements

of bis master, and is ever watchful and
alert not to lose sight of him among these
unfamiliar and doubtless treacherous Philistines.


Suddenly the turbaned head of the
Coolie waiter appears at the door. The
anxiously-expected sound of the dinner-bell
is heard, pipes are placed carefully in
the pockets of their owners, cigars and
cigarettes are thrown heedlessly away, and
a simultaneous rush is made towards the
interior of the building.

The long, narrow table, covered by a
stained and torn cloth, is quickly surrounded,
each man's dog taking his accustomed
place between his master's legs.
The impatient shouts of " Raised mutton,"
" Colonial goose," and " Boy," are

vol. ii. o

mingled with the clatter of forks and
knives and popping corks.

Anon a man throws a surreptitious bone
to his dog ; a low growl is heard, then a
general yell of " Foetuses !" a rush of canine
feet under the table, and the appearance
of human feet upon it, where they remain
till the riot is appeased, the bone given
to its rightful owner, and the ringleaders
ignominiously ejected by the indignant
proprietor. In the midst of this rude
Babel, Ruy eats his dinner in the perturbation
to surrounding circumstances
produced by hunger and philosophy. Morton
converses with him, but only toys with
his repast. Food has so often failed when
he could have relished it, that now appetite
is failing too ; he is also quite indifferent

to the excitement of the men at the
table, and seems to notice no one but his
friend.

Morton looks haggard and worn. He
talks about the prospects of the new
kopje, asks Ruy to hold his claim jointly
for themselves and Campbell until he returns
from Pniel, which Ruy consents todo.
By-and-by the other diners drop away,
their appetites having at length been satisfied
by an admixture of raised mutton,
Colonial goose, and dog fights ; they resume
their former positions under the
verandah, and, while smoking, discuss the
general topics of the day.

At length Morton says:

I do feel horribly seedy. I suppose
you put it down to dissipation, but it can't

VOL. II. P

be that, for I have been absent from your
benignant influence only four days. As
the years go on it becomes harder to
play lone hands, and, though you think
you hold all the honours in the deal, you
seldom make the point, for there is always
some one waiting to see your poor,
pathetic little stake, and go one better.
"Will you come with me this evening, and
have your flutter, and judge for yourself
the merits of Naskwell's ?"

Yes, if you like," answers Ruy, to
whom the anticipation of the proposed
visit is extremely repugnant, but he feel
loath to let Morton, who has changed so
much since they parted, out of his sight.

Montgomery, Montgomery, you know,
although J ask your company, I warn you

as I have often done "  he is now flushed
and feverish, though his tone is jocular 
I warn you to avoid the green cloth, to
turn your back upon the blandishments
of the faro-table, and to shut your eyes
in facing the seductions of roulette ; but
I will go with you to-night to set you
an example ; to show you how a man of
resolute principle will carry himself in
the midst of temptation, how he will calmly
place his borrowed fiver on the king,
and, having won, will let it run, my boy
will let it run until the heap of rivers
has increased and multiplied exceedingly.
I will also show you how this man of
resolute principle will despise the allurements
and vacillations of fickle fortune,
and with a stern grasp will seize that

p 2

heap, and with a steady hand transfer it
to his trowsers' pocket, and, being invulnerable
to the delicate suggestions of the
bar-keep, will turn his back on the
brimming cup, and with an expression of
earnest thought will resume his helmet,
and cfo home to seek that dreamless and
serene repose which always follows a virtuous
action. Young man, the king has
spoken !"

Morton," says Ruy, " had I not
dined with you, I should say you were
drunk."

But instead, you'd like to call me an
idiot for wasting so much valuable advice
on an unappreciative audience. I agree
with you. Well, let us change the
scene."

CHAPTER XIV.

NASH WELL'S.

Men that hazard all
Do it in hope of fair advantages."

Shakespeare.

A EM in arm they saunter up to 

well's.

11 Hast thou put money in thy purse ?"

asks Morton, gaily.

"Not much, but my little all. Do you
need any to-night ?"

Oh, a fiver and a few sons. would

help."

Montgomery is somewhat surprised at
the request ; Morton had never borrowed
from him before, but he immediately takes
out of his leather pouch two five-pound
notes and six sovereigns, and, offering
them to Morton, says :

There is part payment in advance for
the claim. You need not trouble to
return it. I have enough at home to 0
on with."

You'll get it back to-night ; you see I
have but scant faith in the Montgomery
self-reliance, and I think it better for the
surplus of your riches to be in these moi
experienced hands ; but here we are at last,
let's go in."

"Without question they are admitted
into a well-lighted saloon. On the right

hand is a roulette-table, surrounded by a
few eager players. To the left is a buffet,
on which the most tempting viands are
displayed, and where also the choicest
liquors wait the gratuitous consumption
of the thirsty gambler, for the true gambler
is always a thirsty individual.

Having refreshed himself with a glass
of curacoa, Morton takes a cigar from
those that are also gratuitously supplied,
and both men draw near the roulette-table
to contemplate the play. Here the ruling
passion begins to have its usual effect on
Morton, a suppressed eagerness gleams
from his eyes, but, assuming a tone of
indifference and banter, he says :

Montgomery, do not forget that I
warned you about roulette. Now here

doubtless you would stake on the red, but
the chances are too many against you. I
would not risk even a Scotchman* on
it."

I never saw any fun in roulette,"
returns Ray; "but to me it is quite as
interesting as faro."

Hast thou heard of a person called
Sir John Falstaff? Perhaps not. "Well, he
averred that, had he a thousand sons, the
first humane principle he would teach
them should be to forswear their potations
and addict themselves to sack : now, had I
a thousand sons, the first humane principle

A florin was once passed for a half-crown among
the Kaffirs by a canny Scot, and ever afterwards at
the Fields that coin retained the name of " Scottish



/ would inculcate would be, that they
should forswear roulette and addict themselves
to faro."

Drunk again, Morton," says Ruy.

Thou unmannerly knave, come and I
will humble thy assurance, fighting the
tiger for thee with grim resolution. Now
for the surer, though less remunerative,
faro !"

Morton leads the way into a square,
carpeted room, at the head of which is a
long table, covered with green baize,
placed near the wall, with just sufficient
room behind it for the chairs of the croupiers.
On one of these sits a tall, thin
man, with a pale, thoughtful, and emotionless
face, and near him are his two assistants.
In front of the table is a miscellaneous

collection of men in all kinds of attire,
from the conventional evening dress to
the corduroy and flannel digging costume.
Nearly everyone but the croupier and his
assistants has a pipe or cigar between his
lips, and every countenance wears the expression
of earnestness and self-control, the
eyes alone indicating the under-current of
intense excitement.

As Morton and Kuy approach the
table, the cards are being shuffled for a
fresh deal, and two indifferent players
resign their chairs to the new-comers.

Now that the real business of the evening
is about to commence, Morton, who is
at heart a confirmed gambler, changes his
jocular humour to one of seriousness,
throws away his cigar, selects one of the

five-pound notes, and, with an air of fearless
confidence, puts it on the king, the
other players also staking their money on
their favourite cards. There is a short
pause while the croupier places the pack
iu a little frame from which the cards are
dealt, and then, amidst breathless silence,
he draws the first one from the top of the
pack, and the dull monotonous voice goes
on :

Seven loses, ace wins," he then draws
the next card and places it beside the first.
There is another short pause while the
assistants gather the money from the
losing card and play the winning one.

The game goes on, the voice of the
croupier being alone heard, save that now
and then, as a disappointed player sees his

money ruthlessly swept away by the unsympathetic
assistants, he sends after it a
Parthian shot in a smothered something
between a curse and a laugh.

It seems a long time to Morton and Ruy
that the cards come in their turn winning
and losing, but never a king turns up on
either side.

I guess my money's sheered them
kings, unless they're out on a bust," says
Yankee Jo, who has also staked on the
king ; but no sooner has he spoken than, as
if to give him the lie, up turns a truant
king.

11 Ten loses, king wins ! 5 ' says the impassive
voice of the croupier. The outstretched
hand of Euy is about to take
up the gains for his friend, when Morton
checks him.

"Are you tossing this game or am I?"
lie asks. " Montgomery, be thankful to
the fates that have placed your money in
my hands to-night. I'm on a sure thing,
I feel T am in the vein. We will let it
run, dear boy, and that tenner shall be the
nucleus of the great fortune I am about to
build up for you. Trust in me, for the
star of my destiny is rising."

1 hope it won't set in a holy," puts in
Yankee Jo.

Ruy is silent, thinking it wiser not
to argue with Morton in his present
mood.

The game is all the while progressing ;
Yankee Jo has let his venture run also,
feeling trust in Morton's luck, while several
of the others, drawn by that mysterious

magnetism which compels gamblers, like
sheep and other unreasoning animals, to
rush blindly after a leader, have staked
their money on the winning king. After
another short spell, up comes the king a
winner again.

"Let it run," says Morton, now completely
under the fascination of the game,
"let it run!"

I'll be hanged," says Yankee Jo, " ef
ever I admired to see them kings before,
but to-niofht I like the faces of them as
well as Ulysses S. Grant's, or any other
president's of a free republic."

On goes the game and a third time up
comes the king a winner, and Morton's
five pounds has grown into forty. The
gambler's inspiration of luck lets it run,

till again the king comes up on the right
side, and again Morton lets it run, till a
hundred and sixty pounds is paid on the
lucky king. Morton bends over Ruy, and
whispers hoarsely :

Take up the money, old man. It
won't do to tamper with my fickle goddess
too far."

The money doesn't belong to me," answers
Montgomery, now understanding
that Morton has been playing for him,
"take it up yourself."

"Well, we'll settle the ownership by-and-by
; meanwhile I'll pocket it, and have
a brandy and soda. "Winning is just as
thirsty work as losing."

"Ef I'd hed the pluck to follow your
luck right through, Morton," says Yankee

Jo, " I guess I'd lev made my everlasting'
fortune instead of out this tenner. Next
time, when you're on the gambols, give me
the tip, and, ef I don't go my whole pile on
your luck, my name's not Jo."

Well," returns Morton, " let us stake
another fiver each, and clear out, win or
lose."

Right you are," says Jo, " and ef I
lose this little hitch, I reckon you'll hear
some ornamental language."

The three now go back to the table,
and Morton throws down a five-pound
note, saying to the croupier :

Put it on the king once more, for a
last chance."

It happens that it is the only money
staked on the king this deal, and the note

has a corner torn off, which is noticed by
Morton and Yankee Jo, just as the croupier
places it on the card.

Not being much interested in the fate
of this note, after having won so much,
Morton stands apart with Ruy and the
Yankee to speak about the prospects of
the New Rush. Presently the croupier
calls the well-remembered words :

11 The king wins''

u Bully for the king," says Yankee Jo.
"Let's get the dimes, and moose."

Morton approaches the faro-table, but is
much astonished not to find any money
on the winning card. The croupier is
going on with the game, when Morton
says :

Hold on a minute. I staked a fiver

VOL. II. o

on the king, as you know, and, as it bus
won, I want the money."

I have just paid all staked on the king,"
answers the croupier, " and that gentleman"
(pointing to a stout, thick-set man,
with a short beard) " has taken it."

I have taken only the money I staked
myself," replies the man referred to. "I
put a five-pound note on the king, and I
have now taken up that note and the other
I won on the card."

Skin your pardon, young man," says
Yankee Jo, "but would you just let me
look on that thar five-pound note as you
staked on that thar keerd ?"

"No, I won't," replies the young man.
"I don't see what right you have to demand
such a thino\"

"I think," says Morton, "it will be the
quickest way of settling the matter, as the
note I staked has a peculiar mark on it
that both my friend here and I can
identify."

1 ' Who cares for you or your friend ? i
don't mean to show the note to either of
you.

"Well," says Morton, "we can soon
arrange this little affair. Jo, lock the
door. Gentlemen," (addressing the others
who are now crowding round in a very
excited manner), "just stand back a little
and give me a chance. Now, are you
going to show that note?"

11 No, I'm not," returns the man, doggedly,
but the words are no sooner said
than there is a rush, and Morton has him

Q2

in his grasp ; but the stranger is a strong
and muscular man, and not one to submit
to such usage without resistance, so that a
tremendous struggle ensues, in which
chairs and tables are overturned and
blows are exchanged. At length the
crowd sways backwards, and Morton rises
breathless but triumphant, with the missing
note in his haud.

It is passed round after being identified,
and the stranger is lifted from the ground
where he has lain since the termination of
the struggle. Yankee Jo unlocks the
door, seizes the unfortunate thief by the
collar, and, with one tremendous kick,
sends him out into the darkness.

"Thar," says he, "I guess you'd better
not come yar again ; but you've all creation

afore ye, and the civil to back yer little
games. Morton, I reckon we've burst up
this night uncommon lively, and now we'll

git."

This row finishes the business for the
nonce ; lamps are extinguished and the
crowd issues forth, the lucky and the
unlucky together. Chum is patiently
waiting at the door for his master, who
gladly escapes from a scene in which he
has taken an unwilling and unwelcome
part.

CHAPTER XV.

IN WHICH WE BID FAREWELL TO Morton.

a

-Only in the world I fill up a place, which may

he better supplied when I have made it empty."

Shakespeare.

I

T was a hot, moonlight night. The

/ Oil

fierce sun-glare had been most merciless
all day honos the parish, white lio-ht
since daybreak had left nothing of the
sprightliness of the numerous temporary
habitations of the Diamond Fields unexposed,
and the heterogeneous humanity

gathered together on the confines of
the Karoo had panted like beasts of
burden.

Those eager votaries of Chance and
Avarice had not paused in their sweltering
toil, nor did it appear that the midsummer,
shadeless heat told more forcibly
upon the white men than on their swarthy
brethren. A sunstroke here, and there
a fatal fever, were common events ;
but people in health had hardly time or
spirit to congratulate themselves on their
own physical endurance, for the work was
a hazard and the return a mere lottery,
and the most pressing facts were the
necessity of labour and likelihood of loss.
Alas ! when night, with her benignant
shadows, transfigured the heaps of stones

and refuse which oftentimes were monuments
of disappointment, her mystery
could not wholly hide the truth, could not
all conceal that these were grim trophies
of failure and mischance that had been
piled high and roughly by impatient
hands on the banks of the Vaal.

Campbell was some hours late for the
time arranged for the meeting with Buy,
and, as he waited for the ferry-boat to
take him over to Pniel, the moon's reflection
across the water was a broad,
silver column. The clamorous and loud
croaking of the frogs on the river-banks, the
voices of the dutchmen singing hymns, verse
after verse, in dreariest repetition, and the
still more monotonous Kaffir concertina
strumming of one slow, short passage of

an air, till the involuntary listener often
envied the immunity of deafness  all
were sounds familiar and characteristic of
the camp, which had its brief moments of
recreation, though the Europeans, especially
the more highly civilised, took it
mostly in sleep. The excitement which
necessitated this had not yet subsided;
few diggers regarded their present avocation
otherwise than temporary, to which
might come an abrupt termination, and it
was hardly yet worth while to seek out
diversions, though pastimes were not
lacking for those who were not wholly
engrossed in their labours.

At length Archie reached Pniel, and,
going towards his destination, missed a
sight to which he was accustomed ; tho

little, still figure of Nestling under the
front awning of bis waggon, as Mrs.
Quarrier described him, " minding the
stars." Archie had so often remarked the
beautiful profile against the clear sky that
he thought it strange the old man was not
at his post, and the night so hot. He
called out in passing, but no response
from the waggon. He trudged on home,
but was the first arrival there. Buy and
the Chum came an hour later. Ruy had
intended to write and ask Archie to join
him at New Rush ; but when four days
passed, and Morton had not come back to
arrange about the claim, Euy feared he
might not be well enough, so had determined
to keep his appointment-the

young men compared notes at

supper, and had just decided to go to
Morton's tent, when a knocking at the
door interrupted them.

Who's there ?" they asked.

It's Nestling, Mr. Montgomery. Will
you excuse my calling so late, and receive
me ? I have most urgent news."

Come in, come in," they both called
out, repressing their smiles at the old
man's courtesy, which never deserted him.
He was of the Nolan type, of whom his
Crimean comrades say that, when conveying
an order to charge, in his fine Hibernian
accent he would preface the command
in solemn earnest with, " Gentlemen, will
ye be kind enough to Charge ?"

"I have sad news to give you," said
Nestling, taking the first available seat, as

if he were too weak to relate his tidings
unsupported. "I have just come from
Mr. Morton's death-bed."

Both the men were so utterly shocked
and grieved that their answers were mere
incoherent questions.

He was taken ill the day he returned.
I found that he had walked over in a very
unfit condition."

"But," said Montgomery, "I left him
in the passenger-cart just before it was
going to start."

"Yes; I know he had taken his fare,
but a poor, sick young fellow who is now
at Sanger's, came to the cart and found it
full, and Mr. Morton, seeing him turn
away terribly disappointed, got down and
said, ' You can take my place. I've forgot

something, and can't go to-day.' Mr.
Morton's illness ? Well, the doctor called
it sunstroke and typhoid fever; Mrs.
Carrier said it was hunger and starvation,
but it wasn't exactly either, though
he was so wasted the disease had nothing
to work on. I haven't left him more than
half an hour since the first day, and Mrs.
Quarrier might have been his own mother,
she has been so kind."

Nestling went on answering questions
and relating the particulars of the seizure
which had ended so fatally, and concluded
in his own characteristic way :

It was Vaal fever he died of. I know
all the symptoms, though a young doctor
fresh from England, is not likely to have
seen as many cases as I have in my ups

and clowns in the Colony these twenty
years. The doctors never cure it ; you
are in a high fever from first to last ; they
give you sleeping draughts, which only
madden your poor brain that can't get
sleep. "What you want is a good sweat, it
would put you easy directly, but medicines
never do that for you."

You say a change came over him this
morning ; did you think him better V
asked Archie.

11 Yes, there was a change." Nestling's
voice grew softer and sweeter. " Yes,
there was a change. He was in a sweat
at last, but it was clammy and deathlike,
and he turned round, all by himself, and
said, * Nestling.' Lots of them have turned
round and said, * Nestling,' just at the

last, after being mad for days, but they
died for all that. Afterwards, Mr. Morton
seemed to be wandering, but, by-and-by,
he rose right up in his bed and shouted,
'I'm on the down grade, and I can't
reach the break,' and then he fell back 
dead !"

The old man put his hand to his brow.
He looked very pale and worn, but he did
not complain, and when his listeners expressed
great sorrow at not having been
able to aid him, he said, somewhat apologetically
:

11 When he was taken ill he sent for me,
and said, ' Now, Nestling, you'll stand by
till I've done.' I knew what he meant,
and I wouldn't have left him for anything,
but," he added, resuming his professional

tone, though his eyes were glistening,
"I'm going to begin his coffin to-night,
if I can get Bailey to let me have the
planks reasonable. There are some people
who get cent, per cent, when those
they trade with are in trouble. "We shall
have to stand the expenses between us,
since the poor gentleman can't have had
his remittances regularly of late."

The three went over to Morton's tent 
a poor little place in which to receive
Royalty, but it was plain to see that the
Kino of Terrors had left his sign-manual
there.

A woman's hands had already arranged
everything, and the doctor and magistrate
were now examining the effects of the
deceased.

No money was found, save a packet
addressed to Ruy. which contained all the
notes and gold won at Nashwell's, and a
letter begun, explaining why he could
not come, as he had promised, to New
Bush, but the writing had ceased
abruptly.

There was nothing at all to give any
clue to his former life, neither letters nor
papers, and no other scrap of his own
handwriting save one manuscript book, in
which were some odd debit entries, under
the heading :

11 Cleaned out at last"

and underneath was written :

To be paid out of the proceeds of my first

find?

VOL. II. K

January 10th. Horribly hungry ; went
home with Campbell, got a magnificent
plate of stew ; never remember any repast
that allayed the gnawing pangs as this one
did.

3lst. A bundle of newspapers from
Tom Poole, in which I found news in the
obituary of a death which has given me
relief at last.

February th. Loan of two pounds
from Bently.

March 6th. A dozen cigars from
The Longue,' who said he did not like
the flavour of them, which was his wav of
getting out of the merit of the gift.

1 eth. A splendid dinner at Montgomery's,
with Chum on my knee afterwards,
worth the best mess dinner I ever had,
including brass band.

20th. Cup of tea, with toast. Ye gods !
that I should ever forget her ! from that
blessed creature, Deborah Quarrier, whose
real feeling goes far to redeem the lack of
it in her sex.

"April wth. A lift from the Half-way
House in Gilfillan's trap, when I w r as dead-tired
and footsore."

And so on ; a strange medley of debts
w T which Morton had doubtless meant to
pay, but, instead, was now lying, removed
from that possibility, waiting to incur the
last obligation for which each must be indebted
to those whom he can neither
hinder nor requite.

r2

CHAPTER XVI.

BAD TIDINGS.

Then it was truth," he said ; " I knew
That the dark presage must be true."

Scott.

II norton's funeral was attended by a
large number whom various reasons
induced to show that respect for the dead
which they were so chary to give the living.
Curiosity prompted many to leave work
for an hour, for the uncertainty of who
next should need the same service gave a

zest to the business which otherwise would
have been lacking.

Notwithstanding the primitive character
of the procession, there was deep sadness
in the countenances of some which the onlooker
missed in the faces of the majority.

In consideration of his age, and because
he had nursed the deceased, little Nestling
was elected chief mourner. There was no
lack of dignity in the small figure, dressed
in a tight, dark green, frock coat, with
gilt buttons, that had done duty for
twenty years on similar occasions, and a
large pith helmet, swathed in folds of
crape, borrowed from Mrs. Quarrier.
After Nestling walked the two tall figures
of Campbell and Montgomery.

The Klipdrift Cemetery was not a place

to inspire solemnity. It was merely a track
of barren land slightly divided from the
felt, exposed alike to the burning sun
and to the wild winds, with nothing in those
early days to mark the graves of those
who had been buried. Its temporary appearance
suggested the idea that death
was a condition where the victims had to
be got rid of anyhow ; and yet I trow the
Klipdrift dead fare as well and sleep as
soundly as they whom marble tomb or
minster vault secure, for the embrace of
Mother earth is rarely unkind, and she
gives the same quiet welcome to all her
children.

Archie had been ailing, and Ruy had
in vain tried to persuade him to remain in
the house, for a close, <mstv wind aud

whirling, hot sand produced great discomfort,
and very glad were all concerned
when, the ceremony over, they got into the
boat to cross the river again. Poor old
Nestling hurried back to his waggon to
sleep, for he had been up all the night
previous making the coffin.

In returning the two young men espied
the post-cart careering down the Pniel
Road.

Wonder what bad news to-day," Euy
said. "You go back to bed, Archie, and
I'll wait for the letters."

The sky was all aglow with sunset ; faraway
in the west the crimson and purple
clouds were piled in heavy masses, out of
which fierce lightnings were almost incessantly
flashing, like newly awakened

passion that would wreak its revenge and
brook no tarrying. Anon the crimson
faded into pale, cold grey, which the lightning
still fiercely illumined ; the passion
somewhat abated, but the cruel impulse
none the less abiding.

Nothing but newspapers for you this
mail, and no less than two letters for cue,"
said Ruy, on returning from the postoffice.


What's up ?" asked Archie.

I haven't looked at either yet, but one
of them I see is from Kcrinvean."

That augurs ill, I'm sure. He will
be going to break the entail, or to tell
you of some other lark equally paternal.
"

Hold your tongue, and let me read

my letters in peace," said Ruy, good-naturedly.


The first he opened was from Sir Dallas
Gore, and therein read that he was in
Natal, and intended going up country for
sport, and would make for the Diamond
Fields first, where he hoped to meet his
friends soon.

It was merely a short note, and Ruy
tossed it over to Archie, who soon perused
it, and watched his comrade surreptitiously
while he was reading Kerin-
yean's letter ; they both knew something
unusual must have occurred to prompt him
to write to his nephew.

Ere he turned the first page, Ruy's face
grew pale and intent, and, as he read onto
the end, Archie saw a great change ;

not only surprise, but disappointment and
hopelessness were expressed by the drawn
mouth and saddened eyes ; Euy had evidently
experienced a shock. The letter
fell from his hold on the table, his head
drooped on his arms, but no word nor
sound escaped his lips.

Archie rose and went to his side, and
asked if he might see the letter.

Oh, certainly," answered Ruy, with a
laugh ; " you will find it immensely
edifying."

Archie read the letter in an undertone,
interpolating the sentences aloud.

"Belgrade Square, April 19th.

My dear Rut,

11 1 should have written to you

long ago, but, Laving nothing important
to communicate, I deferred.

(" Might have deferred it for ever with
mutual advantage")

I have great pleasure in informing
you that a fortnight ago the Marchesa
became the mother of a son.

(" I thought as much")

And both are in good health.

(like their impudence")

I need not assure you that my interest
in your career will be as deep as ever, and
I hope my child will always have a friend
in you.

("As if we could associate with an
interloper !")

Your sister and Ingha are still immensely
admired, and they enjoy life

exceedingly. I often tell Marie she is
doomed to be an old maid.

(" That's a lie I")

She is so indifferent to attention. As
for Miss di Garcelli, we think her fate
is almost settled ; she and Lord Arthur
Daneleigh are inseparable.

(" Here's the plot of the letter !")

He has declared himself to her mother,
and there seems to be a perfect understanding
between the two young people.
He will eventually succeed to the maternal
title and properties in his family, and
with Ingha's own fortune there will be a
splendid future for them. He is going
with us to Kerinvean for the autumn.

(" This is a put up job, and Rue doesn't
see through it")

I think I have told you all the news.
"With kind wishes for Archie and yourself,
I am,

Your affectionate uncle,

Stewart Montgomery."

"I say, Rue, it's a beastly production,
and ought to have been signed 'Elinor di
Bacilli ;' she is the real author of it, and ita
vile device to keep you at arm's length."

"Archie," answered Ruy, 'rit's very
good of you to construe the letter so, and
partly I feel sure you are right, and the
heirship is desperately hard to give up ;
not for my sake, an atelier of my own will
yield me as much happiness in the long
ruu, but  but she has a fortune and I
have nothing."

"Well, and who is at the bottom of
that? Her own mother. My opinion is,
that, even if you were not heart and soul
in love with Ingha, it's your bounden duty
to go in for that fortune ; it's the law of
compensation which we have to carry out
voluntarily or not. But don't you lose
heart ; we're going to get the big stone
directly, and you'll be able to treat that
same Garcelli fortune as I would an off-coloured
splint by the side of a kooi-
nor."

When and where ?" asked Ruy, despondingly.


Am I a magician ? Do I look like an
attenuated clairvoyance? Have I ever professed
that my ' open sesame' reveals the
earth's fast-locked treasures? A poor

tool am I in the hands of Fate, knowing
nothing but the certainty of one day
possessing that big stone. Why, don't
you see, Rue, there isn't a digger on the
river who has amassed such a goodly
number of splints, tackles, crystals, off-colours,
bort, and  and"  Archie paused
in his eloquence for a suitable climax 
"and I may add, without being accused of
undue exaggeration, and trash, as it has
fallen to our lot to unearth, and that alone
is reason conclusive that we shall get the
stone eventually."

Your faith in our luck is almost as
impregnable as the rock where the stone
is hiding," said Ruy.

It will come without warning," went
on Archie, not heeding Ruy's remark ;

no small stones preceding it, it will lie
by its mighty self  alone. I should have
the greatest dread of our luck if we had
got into a habit of finding mediocre
white stones which paid expenses and left
a reasonable profit. There would be no
chance then. It's always the poor devil
who is reduced to beggary who gets the
windfall. I know all about it, but you
are young in the district."

Looking at events from your standpoint,
I believe we shall soon accomplish
all the preliminary facts," returned Rustling
somewhat bitterly. " I wish you
could also divine how long the beggary
phase is likely to continue ; it might be
just as lively to know beforehand."

You enormous idiot ! you literal fool !

You'll oblige me by holding your tongue
and allowing me to sleep. I'm seedy
enough to need the doctor, but I might
pine myself into consumption before I'd
get any sympathy from you. Good night
and don't worry ; there are more kooinoors
in the kopje than you know of, and I'm
going to dream where to dig tomorrow."

Not loner afterwards Montgomery decided
to go with four of the Zulu boys to
the New Rush. Archie, being still ailing,
preferred remaining at Pniel ; there was a
considerable amount of sorting to be done
which he did not choose to depute to anyone
else.

Euy had not much zest for his new
undertaking ; the contents of Kerinvean's
letter haunted him incessantly, and, with-vol.

II. s

out one thought of blame, he acknowledged
how probable it was that the tidings concerning
Ingha should be true ; their intercourse
had been so brief, and two years
had passed since that time, in scenes to
which her experience was new, all calculated
to dim the memory of the slight
interchange of thoughts and feelings ere
they parted. Ruy knew that if Ingha
still placed trust in his love, it was more
from intuition than from any declaration
he had made. And yet, and yet it was all
so real to him, no other star shone in
all his heaven, and, if its light were withdrawn,
he knew he would never reach
across the dark waters of life to the
11 glorious port " to which that star would
ever be an unerring guide.

CHAPTER XVII.

FOILED.

Didst thou but know the inly touch of love,
Thou would'st as soon go kindle fire with snow,
As seek to quench the fire of love with words."

Shakespeare.

A 1ST heir was born to the house of montgomery,
and the news soon reached
the Castle where Marie and Ingha were,
and they tried to be glad as became their
sex. The tenantry received the tidings
respectfully, but made no effort to demonstrate
their rejoicing ; regret for him whom

s2

they had so long regarded as their own
was still too fresh to allow them to transfer
the old fealty. The Marchesa's son
was born in London, but Ruy's birth had
taken place at Kerinvean, which facts were
not without their significance.

Marie sternly schooled herself to net her
own part, and talked hopefully to Ingha
about the event, though she foresaw how
gloomy the future would probably be both
for her and her brother.

Mr. and Mrs. Campbell came over to
offer their congratulations, but the softhearted
Mathilda could not keep back her
tears ; she turned to Ingha, holding Marie's
hand, and said :

"Do not think that we grudge Kerin-
yean his heir, my dear, but we have long

looked upon Ruy as the young laird, and
we have now to reap the harvest of our
own folly."

Ingha's lips were sealed both by her
sympathy for the Montgomeries and her
dutiful feelings towards her mother, and
Mathilda well understood the reason why
she returned no answer.

Ingha had many sad forebodings concerning
the change in Ruy's prospects,
and the difference the new heir's advent
might make in his future ; but she felt
confident his spirit would overcome his adverse
fate, and she realized how great that
triumph would be. She had never matched
her own qualities against his, never
imagined that his heirship had any weight
in making them socially equal ; her great

conviction was that in everything he was
so much above her that his love must
always be a grace of which she was not
worthy ; but now, dispossessed of his fair
inheritance, he seemed no less dear, and
she rejoiced that his poverty had come
before he claimed her, that he and everyone
would know that it was for his love
alone she had elected to wait. She sorrowed
with Marie when they spoke to each
other about Ruy's regret, and she grieved
for the people who wanted the old heir
back again.

It was a large and brilliant gathering
with which the Marchesa filled the Castle
the first fortnight in September. Among
the guests were Lady Kinaire and her
brother, a handsome young Irish peer,

who imagined himself hopelessly in love
with Ingha.

Lady Kinaire had not lost sight of her
own pet romance, in which Ingha and Ruyter
to play the most important parts ;
but she had determined to find out during
this visit if Insula also cherished it,
and, if not, to further her brother's suit.
She was quick-witted, and withal possessed
that ready sympathy which discerns motives
that are often unacknowledged and
unsuspected, and she had not been many
days at the Castle before she perceived
that Ingha di Garcelli still was faithful to
her absent lover, and that her frankness
with men could proceed only from a
secure confidence that her heart was not
in jeopardy from the wiles of those by

whom she was surrounded. Lady Kinaire
dreaded that the girl might be forced into
a marriage against her will, for she knew
the character of the Marchesa, and divined
that now Buy Montgomery would
more than ever be considered an objectionable
parti.

Among the guests was also Lord Arthur
Daneleih, a man for whom Inha had
long entertained a sincere liking ; his
tastes assimilated with hers, and he consulted
her pleasure in all the favour he
sought. Several times he had essayed to
hint at a warmer intimacy that that of
friendship, but Iugha had evaded every
suggestion, fearing to lose the present intercourse
with him which she esteemed so
highly. Lady Kinaire, watching events,

saw how unconsciously Lord Arthur was
drifting down a stream that would strand
him ere long, and she took occasion to warn
him, as she had so often and vainly warned
her brother.

"Lord Arthur," she said, "you admire
]\Iiss di Garcelli. I see it in your eyes every
time you are near her."

Do you ?" the young man said,
frankly.

There was a warm sympathy in Kathleen
Kinaire's voice and manner that was irresistible,
and to people in love-affairs she was

invaluable, f or sheneverbetrayeclconfidence.
"She is wonderfully attractive," Lord
Arthur added, after a pause. " Such a
genius, too ! I think it was music that
first brought us together."

If your interest for her ended there,
if you had no more personal feelings than
those, I would not have thought it necessary
to warn you, but "

Lady Kinaire did not look at the young
man as she spoke ; she stooped and gathered
a fern, and appeared to be examining it
with botanical minuteness.

"Oh yes, I know what you mean," he
responded, quickly, " but  but I don't
believe she would have such a commonplace
individual as I am. She is bound
up in ideals, and, when she marries, the
man she chooses will be a hero, and the
present condition of things ranks me
amongst other ordinary fools''

"Don't depreciate my friends," said
Lady Kinaire, kindly. "But, seriously,

don't quite lose your heart on her, for I
believe that neither you, nor my brother,
nor even your brother would have any
chance of winning the heart of Ingha di
Garcelli. ,,

I fear your advice has come to me
too late," he said.

Lord Arthur concluded that Lady Kin-aire
had adequate reasons for her warning,
though he was too well bred to press
for that which was withheld ; besides,
he was enjoying his fool's paradise in
blissful ignorance, and he would not
voluntarily be shown the way out of its
bewilderingly joyous labyrinths.

Strangely enough, at the very hour when
the foregoing conversation was taking
place, the Marchesa was enacting the part

of stern parent for her daughter's edification.
It was the old story of the
mother pressing the cause of the noblest
suitor, but Iugha firmly and unequivocally
said she could never contemplate a marriage
with Lord Arthur Daneleigh.
Reasons were suggested, and were met by
counter reasons : the Marchesa felt that
the contest was unequal.

Without premeditation she told Ingha
of the conditions of her fathers will, and
how, in order to secure a princely fortune
to her child, and enable her to marry as
became her birth, she herself had renounced
the family possessions for an
obscure marriage. She insisted that Lord
Arthur Danclcigh's offer was one in every
respect worthy of consideration, and that

Ingha's duty was to give heed to the
advice of her who had sacrificed so much
to insure her daughters wealth and
position.

Ingha's heart gave a great throb of
delight.

Mother," she asked, eagerly, " will all
this wealth be my own, uncontrolled and
free ?"

Yes, Ingha, at the age of twenty-three
you can throw it, as you probably
mean to do, at the feet of
any nameless, poor adventurer you
choose, and your father's and my
purposes concerning you will be utterly
frustrated."

Nay," said the girl, enthusiastically,
full of new and sudden hope, " I may doa

great deed with my fortune ; perhaps my
riches may repair injuries and wrongs ; of
one thing I am sure, I will never disgrace
our family nor ally myself with any
house whose name my mother could call
mean."

The hint conveyed in the last words
made the Marchesa frown with vexation ;
she felt baffled, and bitterly repented
having made the revelation which served
only to encourage the Quixotic notions
she had hoped were forgotten. Fearing
to spoil any faint chance there
might still remain of one day carrying
out her scheme, she rose to end the
interview, but could not resist one Parthian
shot.

Be careful' she said, in almost

the same tone she had used long,
long ago, when Ingha was new to the
dream which had now grown so familiar
and so dear. " There are people here
who are less romantic than you, and
they might stigmatise your behaviour
by a very vulgar epithet, and I
should not like to have my daughter
accused of flirting, however pleasant
she may consider the pastime."

That same evening, as Ingha walked
down the gallery, radiant, though sad,
on her way to the drawing-room, Lord
Arthur was standing under the portrait
of David Montgomery, and seemingly intent
upon it, though, as Ingha was about
to pass him, he turned round and said :

What a beautiful, haunting face this

is, Miss di Garcelli ; among all the portraits
here I find myself constantly drawn back
to look at this one."

Yes, it is beautiful," answered Ingha,
as she thought of another face which the
picture so strangely resembled, to which
she too was constantly drawn in tenderest
memory, and of another scene under that
portrait two long, long years ago !

I have heard that your friend's
brother, Mr. Roderigue Montgomery, is
very much like his ancestor ; I have never
met him, but they tell me he is a good
fellow and worth knowing."

Unwittingly a string was touched which
the speaker, had he known, would have
kept silent so that he might remain in his
fool's paradise a little longer.

Worth knowing you said !" repeated
the brave girl, looking up with beseeching
eyes, dreading the consequences of, but
intent on, her confession. " I have never
seen anyone better worth knowing than
Roderigue Montgomery."

And her face flushed and her eyelids
drooped, and Lord Arthur bit his lip to
repress his astonishment ; but he was her
equal in honesty.

Had I known this, I would not have
bored you as I fear I must have done."

u Oh! no," she answered, eagerly, "you
have been so kind to me always ; do not
mind what I have told you, forget it if
you can. I have never spoken to anyone
of this before to-day ; do not let it deprive
me of your friendship."

VOL. II. T

11 You arc good to wish for that," Lord
Arthur said, "but I Lad more to offer you
than friendship."

Ingha felt she had lost him out of her
life, and two days afterwards he made
some excuse to leave Kerinvean.

Had Mathilda known his story, she
would have said it was the fate of so
many knights who bad come to that
castle. A spell seemed to be cast on them
all by the fair ones who, century after
century, had inhabited it, and alas ! alas !
of how many she could tell whose romance
ended with the vague and pathetic refrain r
"he loved and he rode away !"

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE PRICE OF A PURE WHITE STONE.

The broad sun above laughed a pitiless laugh."

Robert Browning.

nne excitement caused by the discovery
of the New Rush mine had now set

in, and not only were the camps of Wieland
Klipdrift migrating from the river
banks, leaving only a few persevering ones
who were determined to plod on where they
were established, but vast numbers were
arriving weekly from all parts of the

T 2

world, forming a heterogeneous mass of
population on a track of country which
was a short time before absolutely uninhabited.
The owners of the claims, the
Government officials, the brokers, the
storekeepers, and other multifarious business
men were European, American, Australian,
and the inevitable Jew; the hewers
of wood and drawers of water, who all
passed under the denomination of " boys,"
were Kaffir, Basuto, Bechuana, Griqua,
Boer, Hottentot, Coolie, and Zulu; though
for untiring work, straightforward dealing,
uncomplaining service, and simple gentleness
the Zulu was always preferred.

Very soon the mine at New Rush became
a great Babel ; a hurrying, shouting,
pushing, eager multitude, working in

hourly danger of destruction ; innumerable
ropes and buckets incessantly going
up and down, seemingly propelled by
magic ; debris falling constantly ; human
forms, white and black, moving rapidly
across galleries where a chamois might have
slipped ; and these dangers daily increasing
till the present time, when that once-unsuspected
little hillock is now a mine
nine acres in area, between two and three
hundred feet deep, and from which upwards
of twelve millions' worth of diamonds
has been taken.

Montgomery began to work his piece
of ground at once, for his " boys ' were
good trusty fellows, and he lost no time
in turning up the surface. The men were
Titans who picked in those claims, and

often the " maiden blue ' was reached
when untold wealth was lying waiting to
be sifted, till out of the eager haste to unearth
large stones a trade in material for
sorting was developed, and cartloads of
debris that had been merely put through
a large sieve, or carelessly glanced at for
big stones, were hourly bought by speculators
; women also partook of the prevalent
fever and excitement, and many of
them amassed great wealth in this branch
of the diamond trade.

Ruy's yield the first week exceeded in
value all that he and Archie had found at
Pniel since they had begun to dig ; during
the second week he was still more fortunate.
He wrote to Archie telling him of
the success, and added that it would be

infinitely better for him to come at once
to New Rush. He received a reply to the
effect that Archie would lose no time as
soon as he was able, which he hoped would
be in two or three days, but he still felt
out of sorts, and the doctor had advised
him to remain at the river.

The following week Euy's finds were
still more numerous, and he arranged with
an assistant, as it was necessary for a
responsible person to be constantly at the
claim. Ruy felt more cheerful than he
had yet done since he arrived at the
Fields, but, calling at the post-office one
morning, he received a letter there which
had been waiting for delivery four days. It
was from Archie, and written in a somewhat
feebler hand than was usual to him. It ran :

11 Dear Old Man,

"I have got a stone at last, but
have said nothing about it. I would have
come over to you, but I'm ill. I think I
have got a touch of the sun, and I can't
move. I wish you could spare a day. Mrs.
Quarrier is very good, but I would like to
see you. Come soon.

"Yours,

"A. C."

The letter was dated Monday, and it
was Friday ere Ruy received it ; he did
not lose a moment, but, hiring specially,
he bade the driver hurry his horses all the
way. It was not the news of the find
that hastened him, but the dread produced
by Archie's hint of suu-stroke.

On arrival he found the invalid very ill
in bed, and Mrs. Quarrier in attendance.
He seemed to be sleeping, but after a few
minutes he opened his eyes and saw Ruy,
and, the brief recognition of a glance being
over, he appeared to wish to be undisturbed.


Mrs. Quarrier then beckoned to Ruy
to come outside to speak to her; he
was so stunned that he could hardly
realize the change he had found.

"What is it? When did he become
like this ? What does the doctor say it
isr

The doctor hasn't said yet what it will
be, Mr. Montgomery," answered Mrs.
Quarrier, gently, " but I'm thankful you
have come ; for he is very ill. He can

hardly speak, bis throat and head are so
bad, and he is so restless and feverish all
night."

Have you been with him at night?"
asked Uncertainly

Nestling or me hasn't left
him since he took bad. Five days ago,
towards sun-down, he came to my place
with his face very flushed, and said his
head had been aching all afternoon, he
thought a plunge in the river would refresh
him, but it had made him worse,
and, though it was that hot I couldn't
hardly breathe, he was shivering, and
asked me if I would sive him something
to drink. I got him some tea at once,
then I got a bucket of hot water and mustard,
and made him keep his feet in it ever

so long ; but the tea didn't seem to cheer
him, and he lay down on a bed in my
place."

Why did you not send for me ?" asked
Euy.

I did say, sir, it was a pity you wasn't
here, and then he got up and said he'd go
and write to you, and I've been expecting
you every hour since. I think, sir, if I
may make so bold as tell you my own
opinion, I think he has something on his
mind. Has he a sister called Marry ?"

Sto, he has not," answered Ruy. " But
I have, which is all the same. What of
that ?"

Only that all night long, in his sleep
and wandering, he talks of her, and thinks
she is with him, and once, when he was

dreadfully excited, he said, ' Promise that
you'll give Marry my stone.' He waited a
minute or two, and then said, ' It isn't so
much to ask, when I don't want you to
promise anything else.' So I made bold
and took his poor, hot hand, and said,
quietly, 'I do promise,' and he just whispered
to me, for he likely took me for you,
sir, well, he just said, 'Dear old man!"
and went to sleep like a child, but a
horrid dog-fight began outside and disturbed
him, or that sleep might have saved
him."

Ruy took up his post. Night and day
he watched, gently, tenderly, and without
surcease, and listened to wild delirium,
which made him acquainted with facts that
endeared his comrade to him more and
more.

Chum, having taken in the circumstances
at a glance, had chosen a corner
wherein to ensconce himself; from it he
could see everything and yet be out of the
way ; his chin rested for hours on his fore-paws,
and his hind legs were pushed out,
Eskimo-dog fashion, behind his body,
which was perfectly flat. Nothing ever
escaped the Chum, and now he saw there
was trouble, and he meant to give all the
comfort he could by his silent attention
and sympathetic presence. The various
and intermittent barks of the curs of the
district and the purring and mewing of
the cats reached his ears in vain ; nothing
could tempt him to wander, his duty was
here, and he acknowledged it in the stern
and plaintive way peculiar to the rare
creatures of his class.

The fever increased spite of care and
skill, the manhood was stricken, and disease
reigned supreme. Even the short,
tawny brown hair oppressed with its
weight the head that was burning and
full of pain. The limbs became helpless,
speech difficult, and the suffering was
so great that Ruy regarded unconsciousness
as blessed.

Can you do nothing ?" he asked the
doctors, despairingly. " Is there anything
that can be done to keep him living ?
The morphia is only maddening his brain,
it is doing him harm instead of good."

The doctors looked at the speaker
pityingly, and one of them answered :

"Nothing but a change of symptoms
cau give us a chance."

The other doctor echoed, professionally :

Nothing !"

But you are doing nothing to bring
about a change," said Ruy, goaded by
his own helplessness and orthodox inaction.


Nothing can be done without risk at
present," said the more consequential of
the two advisers ; " this has been a very
bad sun-stroke, and is now followed by
fever which is often fatal, but he may
continue in the same condition for a longtime."


"I do not think so," returned Montgomery;
"there must be a change
soon."

The doctors were learned and licenced,
they could give the worst of diseases

erudite names, and could prognosticate
the most obstinate phases and symptoms,
but their regimen is almost useless in the
type of fever commonest in South Africa,
and which is often deadly when preceded
by sunstroke. Instead of recommending
applications to lower the temperature
of the blood, the Faculty give
narcotics, attacking the effect instead of
the cause.

Chummie, lying there on the most
luxurious of Damara sheepskins, resting
your aristocratic black nose on its pale
satin lining, as if you were accustomed to
nothing but purple and fine linen, and as
if you were an utter stranger to the half
of your experiences, which you know
have been gained as a vagabond and

a Bohemian ; looking, I take it, as if you
had decided for the remainder of your
natural existence to be a Sybarite or a
Philistine, and not as if you might have to
start tomorrow for Siberia, or the South
Pole, or for any other destination that
may propose itself to your possessor ;
Chum, you and I know all about that
fever ! We have seen its deadly raids
fought without doctors, without medicine,
and almost without hope.

We drearily wondered at sunrise
whether ere the setting another dawn
would be ours ; and if, on the morrow, we
should be buried in African soil. All the
while certain theories were held, and
custom was defied, and the thirty miles
between us and the doctor was kept un-vol.

II. u

trodden. "We meant to die of the disease,
if our time bad come, but not of the
medicines ; but we fought on the side of
our ally, Nature, who never betrays, and
we must have fought well, for we conquered.
And the doctors say it was
despite our natural remedies ; but let
those laugh who win, Chum ! "We know
that, of all those poor fellows who were
stricken in like manner in the glow of
youth and hope, few lived ; that, although
the Faculty prescribed conscientiously,
only one or two rose to jocund health
again. You cannot have forgotten, Chum,
it was not so very long ago.

There were hours when Archie was perfectly
conscious, but in these times pain was
so persistent, and restlessness so terrible,

that he spoke little of any subject continuously.


Have you written home, Rue ?" he
asked, feebly, in one of these intervals.

Yes ; I wrote to Invean," answered
Ruy.

I think I could get cool in the loch ; it
would be luxury to drown there compared
with living on here."

Ruy was sitting by the bedside, and
for answer only pressed Archie's hand. Ina
few minutes he turned and looked at
Ruy, and said :

"If I had only bathed in Kerinvean
water instead of the Vaal, I'd have been all
right now."

"And you will be all right soon,"
whispered Ruy, with despair in his heart,

u2

u and, now we are getting on, you'll swim
in the loch again soon."

Our luck has turned too late for me,
old man ; I knew it would turn aud that I
should get a stone. I dreamt I should
get it that day, and I worked in the sun
with no shade till I found it ; it came at
last, a pure white stone."

Montgomery could not trust himself to
speak, and, after a pause, Archie said,
brokenly :

You will give it to her, it's all T have ;
but never  never tell her the price of it,
Hue."

His voice sank with the last words, and
he seemed to sleep, restlessly and painfully,
and Ruy sat by his side watching,
utterly worn and without hope, as he had

watched eight days and nights ; but the
dreary knowledge of helplessness and
prospect of failure were telling more than
sleeplessness and unceasing devotion on
the strong frame and youthful vigour of
Roderigue Montgomery.

CHAPTER XIX.

a king's messenger.

u I am going a long way

To the island valley of Pavilion ;
Where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow,
Nor ever wind blows loudly ; but it lies
Deep-meadows, happy, fair with orchard lawns,
And bowery hollows crown'd with summer sea,
"Where I will heal me of my grievous wound."

Tennyson.

Or a fortnight Ruy Lad watched by

the sick-bed of his friend, and still

Archie Campbell, the once vigorous and

invincible champion in trials of bodily
endurance and skill, fought with Death,
but did not conquer. Older men gave
in sooner; the fever did not take such
hold on weaklier ones; but he, a strongman
of moderate habits, to whom Insurance
Companies, one brief month ago,
would have accorded a "first class life,"
had proved an easy victim to a consuming
disease ; and now it saturated his veins
with its noisome pestilence, and racked
his nerves with its destroying pain.

There were hours when he was conscious,
not so much of physical suffering
as of mental malady. A great expanding
something seemed ever to be coming nearer
and nearer, widening, deepening, growing
more stupendous, till its monstrously gigantic

proportions became a world that
was about to enfold him. Then he perceived
Marie standing between him and It,
though the maddening, inexplicable, increasing
thing was still drawing nearer
and nearer; but suddenly It disappeared,
Marie disappeared, everything disappeared,
there seemed nothing left anywhere
but a diminishing particle in space, that
whirled and spun while he tried to catch
it, strained to grasp it, but, oh ! it was
so small, and it revolved and receded soi



fast he could only keep it in sight, and,
possessing no resistance, he was compelled
to follow it to the brink of a precipice
which he always fell down, down, and
down, but never found any footing or rest
in the dizzy, dark abyss.

And this was pressure on the brain,
fever, delirium ; it has ever so many fine
names in the medical books, but that is
not of great consequence ; it was of no
consequence at all to Archie, nor does it
ever console any of us to know that on the
certificate of our death a high-sounding
title to the deed will be inscribed, while,
alas ! we lie unshriven, awaiting helpless,
in our last mortal combat, the grim enemy
who has sent us perchance consuming
disease, as a fiendish warning of his advent.
Its ravages on Archie had for three
days been apparent enough to influence
the doctors to come more seldom, for
they expected each call would be the
last.

People kindly offered to relieve K-uy,

but he would accept of no aid. Nestling
was always at hand, and Mrs. Quarrier
worked untiringly to prevent the need
of extraneous service. Hour after hour
K-uy watched, and hour after hour Chum
watched too, either in his corner of the
house or at the door, with his chin on
his foresaw, alert, distressed, and silent.
He observed people come and go, and
sometimes, when no one could see him, he
would look steadfastly awhile at the bed,
and, if Archie's hand were within reach,
he would gently move near, and, standing
on his hud legs, lick it all over, and
walk quietly out of the house, with his tail
hanging down ; he would then go all round
the erection in order to show himself that
no barking curs might presume to come

within his jurisdiction, and afterwards
would relapse again into his sentinel attitude
of listening and patience.

On the fourteenth day, lying at the door,
Chum heard a step which caused his ears
to move forward, and impelled him to getup
hurriedly and to go in the direction
from whence the sound proceeded. He
had recognized Sir Dallas Gore a hundred
yards off, and running up to him he
wagged his tail for the first time for many
a day. He trotted quickly back to the
house, the door of which was open, and
going to his master, wagged his tail again,
and made demonstration as if he would
say he thought succour had come at last.

Ruy went to the door and forward to
meet his old friend.

"Good heavens! Montgomery," said
Gore, grasping his hand, " how ill you
look ! They told me it was Archie."

Oh ! no, I'm all right, it is he. Come
in." And Ruy led the way to Archie's
bedside.

Sir Dallas was so utterly shocked at the
wreck before him that it was some moments
before he could realize in the wasted
form and altered features the once
bright and manly friend of his boyhood,
and, when he had realized how changed
he was by suffering, he had to turn away
to hide his emotion.

Coming back to the bed and stooping
over it, he laid his hand on Archie's brow.

"Marie darling, how cool your hand
is ! I always know your touch."

The eyes remained closed, and the voice
was very feeble.

Gore flushed crimson, but, still gently
touching Archie, he said,

"Flash, my boy, it's Dallas."

Yes, it's Dallas Marie, it's Marie 
Marie ; it's Dallas  to marry Marie, only
only I haven't forgot your vow  little
night-bird  under the beeches  you told
me not to forget !"

Ruy went to the door; the pain and
weakness with which Archie had uttered
the words were great; his eyes were open
now, but utterly recognizing, and his
hopeless condition was agony to Ruy.
Mrs. Quarrier was standing outside ; she
had looked in a few minutes ago, and had
perceived that the change Nestling had

seen so often was drawing near, and also
that Mr. Montgomery was almost fainting.
She took his hand in her own
motherly way and said :

Come across with me, the air will
revive you ; that gentleman won't leave
him, I'm sure."

Euy followed her down to her house,
a stone's throw from his own, where
she tried in vain to tempt him to eat,
but he sat down stunned and worn
out.

Dallas Gore, watching his old friend,
knew he was doomed, could even now
discern the shadows of death creeping
over the beloved face, but never a thought
save grief came into his heart.

Archie breathed a while heavily, and

then sank into slumber and lay thus for
half an hour, when he opened his eyes
and saw Gore, but closed them again
without speaking. Presently Sir Dallas,
watching closely, saw him try to utter
something and bent over him, but his
throat seemed to be in great pain and his
lips moved with difficulty, but when Gore
would have given him to drink from a cup
on the table, he signed a negative ; he was
momentarily becoming weaker.

I am glad you have come. Dal, I can't
tell it to Hue."

Generous to the last, hard as it was,
Sir Dallas framed the question unflinchingly.


What is it, Flash ?  something about
his sister ?"

Yes Marie."

He looked at Dallas as he uttered the
words, and with an intuition, quick and
unerring, which the dying are said possess,
he saw that which Dallas Gore would have
given his sword to conceal from him at
such a time.

"You love her too, Dal ?"

Gore pressed his hand in silence.

A minute's pause, then with difficult
utterance Archie went on :

u I kissed her only once, Dal, and I've
loved her all my life  and while I've been
ill she has been with me all the time."

His eyes seemed to wander about till
they rested on a picture on the opposite
wall ; it was a sketch in water colours of
Marie which II uy had drawn just before

leaving home, and the expression lie had
chosen was sweet and pitiful.

"She has always been there since we
came, and she comes down now  larger
and larger  really herself, and then I lose
her again."

The words were spoken with so much
pain and so slowly that Gore feared the
consequences ; he said :

"Flash, you're exhausting your strength ;
wait till you are more fit to talk."

A weary look passed over Archie's face,
soul and body languishing for release.

There's not much more time left, and
the dreams are not on me now. Tell her
I never once forget, and I know she's
been true ; we'll meet by and by," then
after a pause, " and you, Dal?"

VOL. II. x

Gore could not speak, and a conflict,
brief and strong, passed through the soul
of the dying man.

Tell her  God help her ! I loved you !
Love  covered all  love "

"Your love  Flash, to  ?" asked Gore,
in a broken voice, thinking he wanted to
send another message.

No, Christ's love overcome," and his
utterance failed.

At this moment Ruy came in, and saw
that the Angel of Death was hovering over.
Until evening Archie seemed to sleep,
much of the time painlessly, but towards
sun-down he opened the eyes which the
dread mists were dimming, and they were
no longer wandering nor excited. He tried

to speak, but the listeners heard only an
occasional word.

Overcome  I give  white stone  a
name  no man  saving  " then the lips
were mute.

In a broken voice, which struggled
to be firm, Ruy repeated slowly and distinctly
:

To him that overcome will I give to
eat of the hidden manna, and I will give
him a white stone, and in the stone a new
name written which no man knoweth saving
he that received it."

A smile passed over Archie's face as his
gaze rested on Ruy with strong, unutterable
love, but he was too weak for any more
speech. Towards night they saw his lips

move, and he seemed to be whispering, but
the only word they heard was :

Marie !"

ci What is it, Archie ?" Ruy asked, straining
to listen, but he saw that the spirit
was already released, and had gone in that
flight from which no voice can recall it.

And then the Montgomery strength
gave way ; fourteen days and nights of
sleepless and hopeless watching had told
its tale. Ruy flung himself beside the body
of his friend with an exceeding bitter cry.

Oh, Archie ! Archie ! would that I had
died for you."

Could Alcestis shame our human love ?
I trow not. Had Death been vicarious,
Roderigue Montgomery would have died
for the man he had loved as a brother.

would have yielded up his hopes of life
unquestioningly to give life to the comrade
of his boyhood and the friend of his heart.

Like the old crusader who, when the

Saracen horse surrounded Richard, saved

his liege by exclaiming, " I am the King
of England !" so this man too would fain
have lured and misled Death by the
challenging cry, " I am thy victim !"

END OF THE SECOND BOOK.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

U N I Verity

Of ILLINOIS

v.3

VOL. III.

% ioittl

BY

MRS. TOM KELLY.

"Fate, Time, Occasion, Chance, and Change. To these
All things are subject but eternal Love."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. HI.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1882.

All rights reserved.

Tainted BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM House,

BLENHEIM STREET, OXFORD STREET.

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

BOOK III. LOVE AND ART.

CHAPTER

I. The End of a sweet Spring Song

II. The Bitterness of Death

III. Forecast

iv. montgomery turns his back on chance
and Luck

v. "o you must wear your rue with a
difference*"

VI. Relinquished, but not Free

VII. A Grim Maestro

VIII. ' ' What's past and what's to come is strewed
with Husks"'

IX. A Forlorn Hope

X. The Story of Young May Morn

XI. Gore proposes a Break in his Friend's
ascetic Life

XII. " The King is wanting Men, my Dear!"

XIII. Saint Cecilia

XIV. Lady Kinaire assumes the Role of Art

Critic

XV. A Spartan

XVI. Wings and Waves

PAGE

Q

o





















LOVE AND ART.

. . . Se tu segui tua stella
Non poi saltire a glorioso porto."

Dante.

. . . If thou thy star do follow
Thou canst not fail thee of a glorious port."

Translation by Longfellow.

VOL. III. B

CHAPTER I.

THE END OF A SWEET SPRING SONG.

Ah, why art thou sad, my heart ? Why-darksome
and lonely I

Frowns the face of the happy sky
Over thee only ?

As a bird, though the sky be clear,
Feels the storm lower :

My soul bodes the tempest near

In the sunny hour."

Buller Lytton.

fTlHE spring songs had begun again, and
myriad voices were swelling the

b 2

annual chorus in the woods of Kerinvean.
The innumerable waters were making
jocund music, and the white gulls were
winging their happy ways over the loch ;
and all was fair on the hills, bright in the
valleys, and calm on the sea. The salmon
were leaping the falls going up stream,
and enjoying their adventurous experiences,
some of them shunning the shallows
where cunning flies floated, merciless
and cruel ; while others, keen to see and
very avaricious, despite the warnings of
their elders, darted to the surface, but
as quickly dived back to the deep pools,
ere temptation became too strong.

Every creature was glad because winter
had gone; the mysterious feeling of spring

had got into the nerves of all living
things ; some seemed intoxicated by it
and laughed outright, or merrily barrelled
from dawn till eve. The frequent scamper
of the deer in the lonely glens at the
head of the loch w r as less timorous now
that the breathing, deathless time had
come, and the sentinels were at peace,
and could roam as they pleased. The
shaggy cattle, with their serious, untidy
faces, appeared to understand that the
time of comfort and plenty was at hand,
and they browsed, and stared, and ate
cheerily, with nothing to excite them
save the necessity of making an occasional
spiteful flick at some fly which
already hinted at the crowd of its

fellows that would soon bear it company.


The Marchesa, Kerinveau, and the
youthful heir were abroad ; Ingha and
Marie had pleaded to be allowed to remain
all winter at the Castle to pursue
their studies. It was imperative that the
mother and child should pass the cold
weather in a warm climate, and the Marchesa,
having found herself baffled for the
nonce by her daughter's determination,
gladly devoted her attention to her delicate
sou.

The girls had not been disappointed
with their quiet season; their immunity
from social distractions had been most
welcome ; time never lacked employment

for either, and often Marie would go for
long rambles alone to the places whose
dear associations were known to none but
Archie and herself, though she never
passed under the beeches without self-reproach
and shame. She would fain
have told Ingha of that one night's folly
and bliss which the proximity of those
trees recalled ; she would gladly have
relieved her heart of the burden that
memory had become, but a proud reticence
sealed her lips, and, notwithstanding
her regret, she was waiting in hope. No
one but Ingha suspected that she really
loved Archie ; the Marchesa had long ago
forgotten even her assumptions on the
subject.

The sky was soft blue to the interest
horizon, flecked by fleecy, white clouds ; a
thousand ripples glistened on the loch,
and the beauty of the scene was reflected
on the fair faces of the two friends as they
strolled by the river, their thoughts at the
other side of the world. Neither felt it
necessary to keep up any semblance of
interest in conversation  blessed test of
rare friendship !

But by-and-by Ingha broke the silence.

What an appropriate day, Marie," she
said, " for good news ! I wonder if you
will have any letters, and I wonder too if
they have found It yet ?"

They ' were their lovers, and " It "
was the mythical, big, white stone which

was to send them back to love and congenial
work.

It " was as much a household word
with the girls as it was to all who worked
at the Diamond Fields ; scores of diggers
there believed themselves predestined to
find It, and many a penniless group held
long and serious consultations about their
plans for the future after becoming the
actual possessors. All agreed that the stone
must not be parted from at the Fields ; the
tender-conscience, incorruptible agents
of the European diamond merchants were
to receive the haughty go by ; the courteous,
versatile Count who was told everyone's
secrets, though he never was known
to seek such confidences, nor to betray a

trust, in this chimerical case, was to be
specially shunned, and all brokers, " kopje
walluppers," and buyers were to be
treated with the stinging indifference
that many a hard and one-sided bargain
merited.

One condition was usually spoken of,
but always assented to without argument
because of its extremely prodigal proportions.
The lucky finder of the new kooi-
nor was appointed to go immediately
after unearthing It to Capetown, of
course accompanied by a troop of his
vagabond, well wishing friends, and there

CD * Cj *

to charter the best of Donald Currie's
steamers to take the trip to England.
What was afterwards to happen was generally

so diversified by discussion as to be
utterly unintelligible. I have never read
auy record of this wanton and oft-planned
cruise, so I conclude that the monster
diamond, which has served for an illusive
ignis fatuus to innumerable believers in
luck, still lies undiscovered amid the
hidden treasures of the world.

If they find one stone," said Marie,
after a pause, "you may be sure they will
wait for a second, but sometimes I fear
Ruy and I are not Dame Fortune's favourites.
I have given up expecting any surprising
gift from her, and will be quite
content if she will not altogether turn her
back on us."

Ah, Marie you have never reached

down to the bottom of Pandora's box,"
answered Iuba. "Now I would rather
believe, looking at this fair scene, that
gladness is universal to-day ; thoughts of
suffering always jar, however glorious are
the surroundings. Wbo knows but our
noble exiles may be already on the homeward
voyage, Mistress Marie, laden with
the spoils of the Fields of Africa?"

Ingba dear, I wish I bad your spirit,"
returned ber friend ; " the loveliness bere
is always full of sadness to me."

Wby should sbe not be sad? That
same your at the other side of the world,
a once stalwart and manly form lay helpless
and dying, aud, in bis delirium, be
cried :

"A coranach, Marie; play a coranach
before it grows too dark."

Ay, that will be the appropriate music
for her by and by, bitter wailing for him
who shall never return, and yet his voice,
with its ominous bidding, cannot reach
her, she only hears a dull echo of the
coranach of her weary fate. And wherefore
should she not be sad, and weep ?
Are not tears as profitable as smiles ? and
are not all moods which have not tears,
untrue to the great facts of life and to the
mysteries of death ?

But the sweet springtide gave no
warning, though the days were wearing:
on to the corning; of the sorrow.

It was evening. Marie was gazing wistfully

over the landscape, but her thoughts
were uot bounded by the limits of the
scene ; her book lay unread on her knee.
Ingha had been singing, singing of love,
constancy, and joy, and then of loss, and
grief, and dole, and anon there arose a
strain of hope, strong and eager, sudden asa
rift in a blackened sky which discloses
the moon and stars in still splendour.
This priestess of song could sway the
heart by the purity and power of her
tones ; she had made her one talent into
ten, and her skill was as unerring as the
divinity of her gift was sure. Only the
interest sympathy with its melody and
impulse could have given her the feeling
with which she sang Mendelssohn's Spring

song, sweetly and rapturously for very
gladness in the praise with which it is
replete.

Till the crisis of life be passed, till the
laurel wreath be lost, the idol broken, or
the seeming rock under our feet has
proved but a landslip, music suggests
dreams that are full of vague beauty all of
future joy ; afterwards it moans to us only
of the past, and is merciful in making us
weep.

A message was brought to Marie that
Mrs. Campbell had called and wished to
see her. Marie hurried to her, hoping and
yet dreading ; one glance at Mathilda's face
was enough ; traces of tears were on the
usually calm features, and there was a

tremor in her voice as she endeavoured to
speak without emotion.

Marie, we have a letter from Ruy,"
she said, " telling us Archie is ill, very
ill."

Marie grew deadly pale as she clasped
her hands tightly together. These sudden
heart chills, how they shorten the lives of
us all ! We laugh in gay unconsciousness
of pain or heart-throbbing till some stunning
blow falls, and then a great thud
seems to overcome us ; instead of realizing
the tidings that have started the
throbbing, we have recourse to physical
tricks to enable us to bear the inward
beating. We clasp our hands together or
wring them in despair, and our eyes grow

dim and our cheeks grow pale, though not
because of age ; time is not always the
influence that blanches the colour and
bows the frame. I have seen a woman of
eighty years whose fresh loveliness a girl
might envy, but life had ever been a velvet
sward to her tread. I know another face
which the lily for whiteness alone can
rival, but its pallor came in an evil hour.
A brave English officer was assegaied in

C-) CD

sight of his youngest born, and the horror
paled the little one's cheek so that the
bloom never came back to it in all the
aftertime.

Did you bring Ruy's letter ?" asked
]\Iarie, hardly yet sure of the meaning of
Matilda words.

VOL. III. c

Yes, I did bring it, dear, but it has no
comfort for any of us."

Mathilda had drawn Marie to a couch,

and had put her arm round the girl's form.
She had been devising brave comfort for
her husband all the afternoon, but in
presence of Marie's mute sorrow her solace
failed ; she had nerved herself to come
and break the tidings, and had thought of
so many hopes to express, but they all
vanished from her memory, and she could

do nothing but offer the letter, which
Marie took, and, turning away, said :

"I will read it alone, if you will leave
it with me."

Stay, Marie, my child," said her friend,
remember you are not the only montgomery

to whom sorrow lias come. Try
to be brave and worthy of your name, my
poor darling."

Marie went silently from the room, but
her white, white face, it haunted Mathilda
all through the dreary watches of that
night. And this was the message which
the bright spring days had been hurrying
them to meet :

"Pniel, April 10th.

Mi dear Friends,

"If I knew how to make my
news less sorrowful, God knows there is
nothing I would not sacrifice to do so.
Our poor Archie is very ill, so ill that I
cannot leave him for an hour, He has

c 2

had a sunstroke, which has been followed
by fever, and he has but rare intervals of
consciousness. It is eight days since I
found him in this state, and the doctors
give very little hope of his recovery. I
am almost heart-broken, and I do not
know what to say to comfort you.

"In his delirium I have heard that
which makes me ask you to tell Marie of
his danger gently. God help us all !

Yours,

Rut."

CHAPTER II.

THE BITTERNESS OF DEATH.

He'll ride nae mair to nieetin' fair,
He'll gae nae mair to kirk nor ha' ;

Ah ! weel I mind the very birds
Sang douce the day he gazed wa' !

And a' the folk, faith high and low,
Are greeting' sir, like barnes sma' ;

For in their hearts the lad did bide,
E'en tho' sae far he gazed wa'.

nne long, weary days had to elapse ere

further tidings could arrive, and

Marie's unconcealed indifference to passion

cr

events during the time frightened ,
though she was advised by Mistress
Gilroy not to disturb this communion
of sorrow. Coyla knew so many of the
aspects which grief wears, had herself
walked hand in hand with it, slept with
its cruel face on her pillow, and waked to
find it constant and abiding.

The return of the Marchesa and Kerin-
yean had been deferred until June, and
for this respite Ingha felt relief on Marie's
account. The evenings were very dull
now, but Ingha tried to express her sympathy
through her art, she knew no better
way ! She essayed all the strains she
knew Marie loved, but in vain ; for the
poor girl sat for hours idle and listless,

with not even the pretence of reading,
her hands clasped, and her head slightly
bent forward, as if listening for a step
or a voice beyond her hearing.

Tngha's love was pitiful, and she tried
to devise how to make the hours pass
quickly, but her efforts were fruitless, and
daily Marie's anxiety and terror showed
more plainly. With great tenderness,
Iugha sang in these days, and often her
voice sounded like that of a mother crooning
lullaby over her sick child, but, alas !
there was no response in Marie's heart.
She was on the eve of the crisis of her
fate, and she foresaw too plainly the bitterness
of the morrow.

In the years while the Possible is still

limitless, music's deepest pathos lias hints
of hope, strains that rend the measures to
bless us with visions of coming joy, and
all melodies are but songs of the rapture
and the love to which we are hastening.
Music opens to us the gate of our Ecleu,
and its magic and mystery lull us into
dreams wherein we see the glory that
lies beyond. In the aftertime, when we
have realized how deep is the suffering
of which the human soul is capable, have
drank perchance to the dregs the cup of
love and sorrow, the change then comes.
The old spells are powerless to make us
hope ; we listen, but, ah, me ! it is no
longer ours to be lured into enchanted
palaces, the gardens of the Hesperides are

watched by the sleepless dragon; we
hearken, but the strains are all dirges,
even a Bacchic chorus falls on our spirits
like a wail. Where is the ancient charm ?
The skilled hand still wields the bow, and
the strings are in perfect tune ; but our day
of grace is over, and the gate that led to
our Paradise is fast closed, and for this
human life there is no blissful tomorrow.


Sometimes Marie's thoughts shaped
themselves into a prayer, and then would
recur with a pang of despair the dread
that perhaps this was now useless
for Archie. She had always believed
that it was bootless to plead for the
soul that had gone to " the mercy of

the merciful," but her passionate grief
sought to scale the impenetrable wall that
has affrighted so many stricken ones
whose anguish was already overwhelming.
Marie had never before been perplexed
by this subject, but, like others tempted
to the uttermost, she put aside her belief
as an inheritance from Puritan fear, and
she condoned her present conviction,
thinking that, in the dark ages when
truth was assailed on all sides, the Puritan
rebound from error made such strongholds
necessities, and, when the brave
band came to be framers of a creed, one
of their chief designs had evidently been
to make it in every particular the antithesis
of that held by their enemies.

At length the mournful tidings arrived,
the tidings of Archie's death, and sore
indeed was many a heart which held no
memory of him that was not bright and
kindly. It was from Sir Dallas that the
news came, and Mathilda sent the letter
at once to Ingha, whose dread for the
safety of her own love helped her to
realise and to minister to her desolate
friend.

When Ingha went to Marie's room, the
poor girl looked into her face with a terrified
hopelessness, and, seeing the sad
truth written there, she flung her arms
above her head and wrung her hands in
agony.

Oh, Archie, Archie, my Love, my

Love ! where are you ?" she moaned, as
she sank down in a merciful swoon.

Ingha chafed her temples and her
hands, but the eyes and lips remained
fast closed ; presently, however, a deep-drawn
sob, and consciousness, and then
again she moaned :

Where are you, my Darling ?"
In the first despairing moments of bereavement,
the soul stands aghast in its
solitude. The lonely, unspeakable bewilderment,
and the terrible, unutterable
dread of an eternal separation, take possession
of the mind which staggers in the
darkness, sending the yearning and pathetic
cry after the spirit of the departed :
"Where are you, my Darling?"

Oh ! Marie, Marie, you know, you
know !" said Ingha, whose tears fell fast
and whose words were few.

Yes ; but my Love, my Love !" the poor
girl sobbed.

No shame now that death had stolen
her Beloved ; he was her dead by right of
the supremacy of grief. Ay, and he too
had claimed her on that death-bed. Not
much comfort, poor, broken heart ! but
those who are predestined to sorrow have
to stoop to the earth for the waters
of healing. The streamlets, shadeless
desert is the appointed way, trackless
and lonely, the valley of the shadow of
Death must be crossed, and the soul's
best beloved lost in its mists ; then

blessed are they who, through their tears,
see one like the Son of Man lighting up
its gloom, for the road that leads on and
on will be no less desolate and lonely, till
the infinite sea of eternity looms in sight,
and the end, which is merely the beginning,
is reached at last.

a

CHAPTER III.

FORECAST.

As one who is impatient
To see what it behoves him to escape,
And whom a sudden terror doth unman,
Who, while he looks, delays not his departure."

Translation from Dante.

OIX weeks had passed since Archie was
buried at Klipdrift, and still Dallas
Gore lingered on the banks of the Vaal.
For many days Ruy had been very ill,
but at length the vigorous constitution

asserted itself, and he was now convalescent
and capable of work. Gore and he were
sitting one evening in the house reading,
when the former looked up from his book,
and said :

Have you made up your mind to go
with me, Montgomery ?"

You are very good to care about
having me, but I'm sure T could not get
through even a month of idleness just
now. I remember days that were never
half long enough for the loafing I could
do in them, but it was the river and hills
of Kerinvean that were responsible,
but now I feel it is imperative on me to
work."

"I understand that perfectly; but if

you went with me to the Zambesi you
might turn ' spouse,' and barter when
opportunity occurred, and shoot for the
sake of the value of the spoil, and sketch
subjects for future works of art. My
waggon and oxen will do as well for two
as for one, and you will be certain to like
the reality of it all better than you like
the prospect of it here. You could trust
Hopes or Dick to work the claim on half
shares, and we'd call at New Rush on our
way down country ; I don't want to leave
you here."

Gore, it won't do," answered Ruy,
nor do I mean to remain at the Fields
after you go. I could not stay on here
now; when you leave, 1 leave too. The

VOL. III. d

claim is yielding splendidly, but the luck
began too late. Already I have value to
a larger amount than I brought out. If I
have a thousand pounds clear when I
return to England I shall not be badly off,
for I have gained something in experience
besides. We had ambitions once
that it would have taken all the yields of
New Rush Kopje to satisfy, and with him
I could have been content to wait till they
were fulfilled ; but stay here without him,"
and Montgomery looked round the little
place, shook his head hopelessly and added,
"no, it's impossible."

But what do you mean to doat
home?" asked Gore, somewhat perplexed.


1,1 To work, of course ; I always meant this
to be the preliminary of an art career. I
hoped to be lucky, to insure myself against
the temptation of mingling mercenary
motives with my work. I had odd notions
of being independent of the fruits of my
labours in art, but those have been modified.
I know now how sickening it is to
work with no returns, and, so long as the
world gauges a man's power by his success,
I suppose there will always be a
crush to the front to hear the result of the
bidding. I have given myself five years
wherein to study, and I expect I shall
learn a little more about my own audacious
ignorance during that time, and
perhaps at the end of it I may be able tod

'1

do a little towards my own maintenance."



"But, meantime, how do you intend to
live ?" asked Gore.

You are forgetting my thousand ; it
will yield me two hundred per annum for
five years. I am not going to invest the
money, but live on the capital." Ruy said
this with a smile that was melancholy
enough to preclude Gore joining it, and
added, ;< As Montgomery, Younger of
Kerinvean, that would have been an indifferent
income, but, as an obscure student,
I shall have no temptation to prodigal
habits. My sister has our mother's
small fortune, but in any case we could
not live together, it would be unspeakably

lonely for her ; I shall take no respite
till I have accomplished, or  failed."

I fear," said Gore, after a pause, "you.
will never effect anything ; with such a
pittance how can you procure even materials
and instruction ? I wish you would
borrow from me and pay me back in
pictures."

I promise you one thing, Gore, I will
never borrow from anyone else ; but I
think, with my present ideas, I can manage
very well. The hardier my life, the better
I believe it will be for my work. I might
stay on for a while longer here and lose
all I have got ; digging is like gambling,
there is the same excitement winning or
losing, and the same eagerness for the

next chance, and one goes on and on and
may throw away everything ; besides, you
know I must <*o home and face them all
without him, and that is heavy on my
mind ; my sister's grief is the trouble
about which I am constantly thinking.



Montgomery," Gore began, hesitatingly,
" Archie gave me a message for
your sister ; do you advise me to write it
to her, or to wait till I return to England ?
I have tried to word it in a letter, but I
think it is more difficult for me than it
would be for anyone else."

"Why ?" asked Ruy, who had not once
recalled the episode of Archie's delirium
after Gore's arrival.

"Because I left England to try if other
scenes would make me forget her, for I
knew she loved him, though she did not
know I cared for her."

Ruy was greatly astonished, but answered
:

I must have been intensely wrapped
up in my own concerns, for I never suspected
anything about either him or you
of this kind, and I imagine Archie and
Marie could not have altogether concealed
their feelings."

"I don't know," answered Gore. "My
own impression is that Flash had some
Quixotic notions about not being her equal
after he lost his fortune, but this is mere
supposition."



He was more eager than anyone I
ever knew to succeed," said Ruy, "and Lis
belief in ultimately doing so was an enthusiasm
that never flawed. He had
spirit enough to accomplish anything. It
would give Marie more comfort, I think,
if you told her Archie's message, than if
you wrote it. You will return soon, I
hope ?"

I do not know, and sometimes I care
as little," answered Sir Dallas.

Ruy knew the fascination of the life of
wandering and sport in which his friend
had chosen to trv to forget the scenes he
had left behind. Long solitary days in
which no note of time is taken, save the
sun's rise and setting ; the gipsy roaming,

whose quaint, primitive habits become so
soon second nature ; the uninterrupted
freedom, the undisturbed loneliness, the
exhilarating variety of scene, these are the
monopolies of the ideal Bohemian, be he
sportsman or explorer. Two, three, and
four years pass in even African solitudes,
and one comes back to civilization to hear
of governments tottering, armies annihilated,
of innumerable social changes, and
then one knows how long the absence has
been, and perhaps feels a qualm of remorse
at having had no responsibility in
these gigantic plots, though they may seem
sometimes worthy of a race of mankind,
after an uninterrupted study of God's
work.

The nomad life increases in fascination
as the years increase. I recall one whose
experiences were rare. We w r ere upcountry,
where Churn and I did not consider
it safe to sleep without our revolver
loaded and at hand, for we might (I might,
certainly not you, Chum !) have mistaken
the approach of a foe for the laughing bark
of the jackal, which was our usual nightly
serenade, and this Bohemian, an astronomer,
out spanned not far from us, and we
offered him the hospitality of our lodge,
begging him to stay as protection, but he
smiled as he told me he would be "there
if needed," but that he could not contemplate
taking rest under a roof, as he had
never essayed doing so except on two

occasions during the last twelve years !
The very defencelessness of bis waggon
was its chief security, he had got used to
sleeping lightly, " on a nerve," he described
it, and he never liked to leave the companionship
of his precious astronomical
instruments. This individual had had the
highest English educational and social advantages,
but the love of exploring had
become so engrossing that nothing would
ever supplant it.

So you do not mean to come with me,
Montgomery?" said Gore, later on the
same night. " And you are going to work,
and I to play !"

Oh, you will have your innings by-and-by
; it's your turn to pot the buffalo

arid wildest now, but I daresay you will
have a different sort of shooting and more
invincible foes when the time comes."

"Was he foretelling of Isandhlwana,
Ghinghelovo, Entomb, and Sloane ? I
trow not. We did not then suspect that
the power of the sudden surprise, the
rapid Herculean embrace of the horseshoe
manoeuvre, and the determined
advance, culminating in the last resolute
rush and wild assegai thrust of
the bravest troops in the world, would
over be turned against us, for many of
them were then our faithful and industrious
allies. No one thought, as those fellows
were heard chanting time to their
regular step, as they returned nightly

from the kopje at the Diamond Fields,
that their tuneful voices would ever be
raised into demoniac war-whoops for our
intimidation, that the soft pad of their
footsteps would change its fleet lightness
into stealthy scouting of us, their enemies,
though no one who has lived amongst
Zulus ever doubted that they had
unequivocal qualities for the making of
warriors, and their military reverses have
left no record of flinching nor lack of
pluck.

Methinks the brain that devised a campaign
against these noble savages, for
which we were unprepared, had never
seen a Zulu war-dance nor a review of
Zulu troops; or, if he had, his discernment

of the capacity of their fighting
powers was certainly shortsighted. Alas !
for these poor fellows, though heroic endurance
and magnificent manoeuvring were
all in vain against Martini-henries, grapeshot,
and Gatliugs, yet deeds of valour were
performed by these barbaric battalions
which amazed and startled the world.
No white feather there, as the heaps of
our noble slain testify, only the Sakubula,
the crimson war-token, which, alas ! alas !
was daringly flaunted to the death-dealing
muzzles of our English guns.

Montgomery TURNS HIS BACK ON CHANCE

AND LUCK.

He went, and turned not. From his shoes
It may be that he shook the dust,
As every righteous dealer must
Once and again ere life can close :
And unaccomplished destiny
Struck cold his forehead, it may be."

D. G. Rossetti.

"1 /TONTGOMERIE bad wisely determined
io sell his finds in London, for
temerity in speculation was now banished

from the Diamond Fields, and in its place
an excessive caution prevailed. Not long
after the discovery of the New Rush (Kimberley)
mine, the fall in the market commenced
; there followed fluctuations, buta
slow and stead 7 decrease in prices continued,
from which there was no permanent
rise. This was partly attributable to
the immense number of large off-coloured
stones for which too high prices had been
given in the early days, and also because
the merchants had already embarked
almost the whole of their floating capital
in stones which could not be quickly
enough got ready for the trade, the art
of diamond-cutting bcino- confined to a
limited number who hold it as a monopoly,

to which money will not avail to secure an
apprenticeship.

Certainly never in the world's history
has there been such a demand for brilliant
as during the last ten years. Indian
princes, always preferring treasure to
capital, are still as rapacious for amassing
gems as they were in the days before the
storming of Delhi, in which stronghold
they had stored such priceless loot for
British hands. Increased population of
the wealthy mercantile class, who spend
as well as accumulate, and who consider
any occasion for family presentations
reason sufficient for diamond-buying ;
but, notwithstanding, the digger rarely
benefits from these broader facts.

vol. in. E

Montgomery's house sold for two hundred
pounds, and his claim was put into
the hands of the literary local auctioneer,
who advertised it for disposal in the
popular newspaper of the district.

The fact of the auctioneer and the
owner of the newspaper being one and
the same person, and that that person included
the personality of another hypothetical
person, who was reported to be
retained to compose advertisements at an
impossibly high salary, which advertisements
had to be paid for by the victims
who needed that channel of celebrity,
had, of course, no weight in lengthening
those productions, the literary and electioneering
mind being incorruptible and

undefiled. No dictation nor interference
was permitted by the editor, who was responsible
for the following, which appeared
in very large and varied type in his valuable
columns :

ARREST YE, WEARY DIGGERS!
Come to " The Blue Post," at Twelve o'clock,

On Thursday !
To be Sold, for an old Song,

THE RIVAL OF GOLCONDA!
No. 22 Claim, at present owned by

RODERIGDE Montgomery, ESQUIRE.

It has been very little worked, and towers head

and shoulders above its surroundings,

like its Owner !

This Claim is chock full of Kooinoors, and it is

here that the

BIG Stone!!

Will be found, though its fortunate possessor has

expectations of a less exciting nature

IN EUROPE,

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVFR.9ITV nr iiiimnfn

Where our good wishes will follow him ;

And he has determined to allow his friends at the

DIAMOND FIELDS

To profit by his departure, by offering the

SALE BY AUCTION

Of this unparalleled Claim, which will make

A MILLIONAIRE! ! !

Of the pluckiest Bidder.

Now that the Sand Vein has been successfully run

through, and the

REFUSE CLEARED AWAY ! !

It only awaits Buckets and Enterprise to carry off the

INNUMERABLE SPARKLING GEMS ! !

That lie secluded in the Maiden Blue beneath !

The claim sold for three hundred
pounds, and the day after the auction, a
week subsequent to Ruy's abandonment
of it, an eighty carat perfect stone was
unearthed there  the luck again too
late !

Ruy went before leaving the Fields to
pass an hour at Archie's grave, and to
spend a night at Pniel. Arriving at Mrs.
Quarrier's, the good woman received him
kindly as ever, but her face was expressive
of concern.

"I've found my Jack at last, Mr. montgomery,
but he's ailing and is in the
room at the end of the stoop, my best
room."

"I'm glad to hear you have found him
after all," returned Ruy ; "any place will
do for me ; I leave very early in the morning.
If you can give me a stretcher, and
will tell Nestling to come to me at five
o'clock, that will be all I shall need."

Mrs. Quarrier showed him into a little

place beyond her "best room;" between
the two there was only a thin partition,
which was by no means proof against
sound.

Ruy bade her good night and shut the
door, but, though tired, sleep w T ould not
come. Footsteps of customers, nightly
visitors going in and out the canteen,
familiar sounds and tones which recalled
many an association, kept his mind
wakeful, and Chum too was alert though
still, as was his habit on the eve of a
move.

"Mother, mother," cried a querulous
voice, interrupted by coughing.

"Yes, Jack; I'm coming directly with
your tea. Arc you better ?" asked

the soothing tones of Mrs. Quarrier.

I'm middling," answered the querulous
voice.

A few minutes after, the tea and toast
having doubtless had a pleasing effect, the
voice resumed :

I've been a bad lot, mother."

Yes, you have, Jack," said the truthful
woman ; " but you're going to mend
now, and we'll be ever so comfortable
together; you see if you don't, you've
the makings of a bad old man in you

yet."

I don't know as I should much care
about mending and coming it good," went
on the querulous Jack ; " good people are
such hypocrites, and, if I joined them, I'd

never get another lark as long as I
lived."

They wouldn't have you unless you
repented," answered Mrs. Quarrier, in an
earnest tone. " You've been the worst of
prodigals, Jack, for you've sinned against
God, and Queen, and country, and parents
as well ; but you'll be forgiven, my lad ; your
mother ain't a-going to turn her back on
her only child, and God ain't a-going to do
that by His son neither, and He says He
came for the wicked aud bad us as
everybody else had scorned, and you are
one of them, Jack, for a deserter is the
most disgracefully man in the whole
service."

Out of it, you mean, mother," put in

Jack. " I wish you'd forget I ever was a
trooper ; you'll be having a squad of them
after me in no time."

Oh dear, no !" said the mother, " you're
too ill ; and, besides, w r ere never going to
part any more, and now you've left your
evil ways you'll be far happier than you
ever was."

u I don't agree w T with you, mother. You
see you only know one side, and you
haven't the ghost of a notion of the ins
and outs of a real spree."

No, I haven't," said the mother, apologetically,
" but you'll tell me everything
by-and-by; and now you'd better try to
sleep, and I'll be within hearing if you feel
bad."

58 TIME AND CHANGE.

A little later Puy heard Nestling go into
the invalid's room.

Well, Jack, aud bow are you to-night?
he asked, kindly.

Better, thank you, and I'm coming it
John Bunyan and the ' Pilgrim's Progress.'
I'm getting on. She preaches regular,
and it ain't her fault if I don't turn
Method."

w You don't know what a good mother
you have, Jack," said Nestling, timidly.

I ought to," Jack answered, "only she
expects too much from the likes of me.

E

but she's good enough as mothers go, and
I suppose she means to do the correct thing
Ijy me, for all she's so taken up with
religion."

Ere long the voices and footsteps ceased,
and Ruy at last fell asleep, but wakened
early to hear old Nestling pacing the
verandah, where he had waited all night,
fearing to be late in the morning.

Mrs. Quarrier's parting was fall of tears,
and when she held Ruy's hand many unspeakable
thoughts came into both their
minds.

Good-bye, Nestling," said Ruy. " We'll
all meet again some time, I trust."

I feel sure we shall meet again, Mr.
Montgomery," answered the old man, his
dignity struggling hard with his feelings,
"how or where the Lord only
knows, but I shall never cease to hope
for it."

And, as Ruy drove up the Pniel road, be
saw little Nestling, who was being ferried
across the Vaal in the golden sunrise ; he
was standing in the boat bareheaded,
waving his hand. It was meet to leave
him in the sunrise, for the dawn of an
eternal day could not be far off from that
dauntless and gentle soul.

CHAPTER V.

YOU MUST WEAR TOUR RUE WITH A
DIFFERENCE."

TiyrONTGOMBEIE did not arrive in
England until two months after
the tidings of Archie's death had been
received at Kerinvean ; he waited a week
in London, where he sold his diamonds
for nine hundred pounds, and then started
on his sad errand.

It was not unexpected at Invean that he

should propose to go there instead of to
the Castle. Marie had been invited to
stay with Mrs. Campbell while Ingha went
to meet her mother in town, where they
were to remain a month.

Ingha had more than one reason for
regret on parting from Marie ; she feared
that by the time the Kerinvean household
should have returned Ruy would no longer
be at Invean, and an indefinable dread
that she would not see him saddened her ;
and bitter it seemed to her that the once-recognized
heir should be coming back to
no welcome, and not even to the hospitality
of his old home.

It was a sorry meeting for Ruy ; each
one in the quiet Invean family circle felt

that the vacant place of the beloved son
could never be filled again, and that to
all of them his loss was irreparable. Ruy
had much to tell of Archie, and, after a
time, their life at the Fields became a subject
which at least proved a link to the past.
The first wild bitterness of Marie's grief
was over, she never spoke of Archie to
anyone, but between Mr. Campbell and
herself had sprung up a strong sympathy,
born of the sorrow that has robbed life of
its hope. The father's loss was profound,
but not so selfish as to render him indifferent
to the speechless patience of the
girl's face, and a tender pity for his son's
beloved showed in all his intercourse with
her.

Marie realised to the full now that she
must take up her life without the dear
hope that had lent all the glory she had
foreseen in the future. She knew she
should meet her lover here no more, that
never again should they stand in rapture
like that they had known in the brief
hour under the quiet stars, when he had
claimed her for eternity ; and an unspeakable
yearning for the hereafter took possession
of her. But Death opens not the
portal for mere pleading. " One shall betaken,
the other left," is a stern and
mysterious fiat which knows no abrogation.


"Ruy gave Archie's stone to his sister,
and told her everything which he thought

could comfort her, and delivered a letter
which Sir Dallas Gore had given to his
care when they parted. It contained only
these few words :

Dear Miss Montgomery,

Not daring to intrude
my sympathy upon you now, I wish
merely to tell you of a sacred message
entrusted to me. Archie's words were :
1 Tell her I never forgot. I know
we shall meet again !' What there is
of comfort in this, God grant you
find!

Dallas Gore."

Ruy had no heart to go to any of his
old haunts, he had never more keenly

VOL. III. F

realised the loss of his comrade than now,
and he felt he could not bear to stay long
in the place where he heard constantly
the echoes of Archie's voice, and the ring
of that laughter the spell of which even
the gravest had ever been unable to
resist.

Old Peter was in a very feeble state of
health, and Ruv soon went to visit
him.

So I've lived to bid ye welcome,
Master Ruy, " said the old man in
greeting, "the Lord has given me my
heart's desire. You have come back
yer lane, and, oh, the place is sir
changed."

Kuy pressed his hand, and answered
:

"Yes, we are all changed, Peter,
bat I don't see any difference in the
place."

No, there's no that difference in God's
work, the foolishness is a' our ain, but
it'll a' be right ae day. Ye are na gain
wa' ony mair ?"

"No, not far, Peter  only to London,
or somewhere within call, to my work."

Work ! work ! Is there no work
enough here for ye ? Tak' wa' Kerin-
yean and twas mile round, and war are
ye ? What for should ye gang frae
Kerinvean ?"

F 2

"For good work, I hope, Peter; you
wouldn't have me stay here now Y'

Wad I no ?" responded the old man,
eagerly. u Ye wad never gae farther
than the Kerinvean marches could I keep
ye here ; but there's folk that think they
hare mair right to bide, an' we maun submit.
 But, Master Ruy,"  Peter's eyes
grew bright and his voice a degree
stronger,  "ye'll get a salmon toon b}~
the Black Fir the night; the new keeper
will be in's bed ; my fly-bulk's on the
shelf there. Hist ye, and I'll give ye the
ane the fish canna refuse."

Ruy could not forbear a smile to see
how absorbing the ruling passion still was
as the feeble old mau tried to raise himself,

pointing to the shelf on which his
fly-book rested.

11 Peter, yon wouldn't like me to betaken
for a poacher ; the river will never
be mine, and I would not care to fish in
it without you, so don't look for flies tonight."


But Peter was ill-comforted, and seemed
perplexed between desire and duty ; and,
after some conversation about Ruy's
travels and his own illness, Ruy wended
his way back to Invean.

The reserve in which Ruy hid all his
deeper feelings hindered him from encouraging
either Mathilda or Marie to
speak of Ingha. He asked no questions
about her, though his cravings for

tidings were painful, and there were
times when the experiences be had so
lately gone through weighed upon his
spirits so much that his hopes seemed to
elude him.

Marie was perplexed ; the shipwreck of
her own happiness gave her a keen foresight
of the storms that threatened the
horizons of those whom she loved, and
she pondered much how to avert them.
But Ruy never hinted a word about
Ingha's existence, and in these days Marie
was easily daunted and mistrustful of
herself.

About a fortnight after Ruy's return,
he received the following letter :

"Kerinvean Castle.

"My dear Ruy,

I have come from London

specially to see you on urgent business.
Will you come here to-day to talk over
matters with me ? Kindest regards to
all.

Yours sincerely,

Stewart Montgomery."

A somewhat undutiful impulse prompted
an excuse, but his wiser feelings
prevailed, and, not greatly troubling himself
with conjectures, Ruy started off at
once, followed by Chum. He sauntered
across the fields, and through the woods,

which seemed to be even yet waving the
same welcome to him that he had ever
found in the past ; nor did he love them
one whit less now that the possibility of
possession was a memory that never
troubled his brain.

CHAPTER VI.

RELINQUISHED, BUT NOT FREE.

But in my spirit will I dwell,
And dream my dream, and hold it true ;
For though my lips may breathe adieu,
I cannot think the thing farewell."

Tennyson.

/~\N arriving at his old home, Ruy was
informed that Kerinvean had gone
out, but had left word that he would return
in an hour. Ruy told the footman,

who was a stranger to him, that he would
wait in the library.

The man stared as the visitor walked
into the hall, and, drawing aside a tapestry
passed through an arch into the
gallery, the longest way to the library.

That is the gallery, the picture-gallery,"
volunteered the astonished servant, who
was following him.

Tell Kerinvean that Mr. Eoderigue
Montgomery waits for him."

I beg your pardon, sir," returned the
footman. " I nought to have perceived
you was one of the family."

Ruy went on, looking at the familiar
pictures and at the old armour, every
curve and dent of which he knew so well.

He sighed as he recalled how often Archie
and he, when boys, had eluded everybody
for the sake of donning these suits, how
they were wont to copy the portraits with
their helmets, and greaves, and gauntlets,
and how once Archie  " Ah, there was
the very breastplate and dagger,"  put on
a most elaborate coat of mail, much too
large for his then slender figure, and the
old butler came suddenly upon them, and
Archie darted against the unsheathed
misericordia Ruy held, and was pierced by
it on the shoulder ; but he laughed when
the blood oozed out, and only said :

When I'm dead, Rue, I'll get credit for
this wound, and, considering it's in front,
they can't call me coward !"

Other memories crowded in Ruy's brain
as he sauntered on, Chum at his heels,
but he was arrested suddenly by a new
picture, hung opposite the stove over
which Sir David Montgomery looked
mournful as of yore.

Ruy was fascinated, gladdened, ay,
thrilled in every pulse.

And they have put you among the
Montgomeries, my star ! a fair, sweet sarcasm,
my queen of them all ! a radiant
Peri in a court of mummies !" he said, half
aloud, while gazing hungrily at the face
which had haunted his dreams for upwards
of two long, dreary years.

It was Iugha, in her lovely womanhood,
smiling, gracious, and of a noble bearing,

but Buy yearningly sought for that which
the portrait lacked. The features were
exquisitely painted, the pose was perfect
serenity, the dress and surroundings were
superb. She was standing in an Eastern
court, and all about her were groups of
palms and tropical flowers, and she was
the fairest flower of all, but the wistful
enthusiasm which pervaded Iugha's nature
and showed so constantly in her expression
was not indicated in the portrait, and
yet that alone would have rendered any
features beautiful, and would have been
inspiration enough for a higher work of
art.

Your face is here, my star, but your
soul did not look out of your eyes on

him who painted this picture. One
day, if God wills, I will prove more
faithful."

And Ruy turned away and saw that
Chum had ensconced himself in a favourite
alcove where they had often spent
hours together, Ruy drawing and Chum at
his side asleep ; but Chum was not sleeping
now, his chin was on his fore paws,
and he was eagerly watching Ruy and
the picture ; he had evidently gone to the
alcove to leave Ingha and his master
undisturbed.

"Come along, Chum; you are too familiar
here, my dog."

Ruy now opened the library door, and
Kerinvean's stahound rose on hearing

an intruder, and came on as if for
victory.

Lie down, Chief," said Ruy, but
the hound was baying with delight,
and pawed and licked Ruy to such a
degree that Chum could not forbear one
little, sharp bark of jealousy, whereupon
Chief turned round and gave Chum a
fraternal lick, but turned again to Ruy
with the demonstrative welcome that only
the reserved by nature ever offer with
pleasing effect.

Buy had not kmg to wait, and, when he
heard Kerinvean's step, he went forward
to greet him.

How are you, my boy ?" said his uncle,
shaking his hand warmly. " Very glad

you escaped sunstroke, and fevers, and
snake-bites. I am rejoiced to see you
here again."

Thank you, uncle," returned Ruy.
"I am delighted to find you looking so

well.

>j

<c Oh, I'm all right ; I never did ail
anything, you know. I wish I could say
as much for the youngster, but he too is
stronger since we took him abroad."

And the Marchesa, is she well ?" asked
Ruy, whose courtesy never deserted
him.

Oh, yes, thanks," answered Kerinvean,
in haste. " I would ask you to come and
see us in town, but tin's blessed business
about Ingha worries me terribly."

I don't understand to what you
allude," returned Ruy, in some fear.

"No, I daresay not. But sit down,
Ruy. How brown you are ! I wanted to
ask you to take the management of the
property again, but the March esa does not
approve, says it might bring you and
Ingha too much in contact, and  and 
in fact  " and here Kerinvean's flow of
language failed as Ruy interrupted
him.

"Kerinvean, you must be under some
misapprehension. I have come back to do
my own work, and no inducement could
make me forego it."

11 Yes, yes, that's all right," returned
Kerinvean, evidently at a loss to know

vol. in. G

low to introduce the real object he had
had in view in seeking the conversation :
"I am sure you will choose correctly,
and never disgrace our name ; but the
Marchesa is so bent on the marriage
about which I wrote to you  Lord Arthur
Daneleigh and Ingha. He has begun to
visit us again after we thought the intimacy
between them was quite broken off ;
and Ingha, well, she does not seem to discourage
him, in fact, quite the reverse,
and the Marchesa says (how she finds
things out I cannot tell, but she is a
clever woman, a wonderfully clever woman)
she thinks Ingha would have accepted
Lord Arthur long; a 2:0, but fears there
must have been some boy and girl understanding

between you two, and that of
course, as Ingha is romantic, she does not
consider herself free. You know it
would be a sad thing for her immense fortune
to be thrown away, and  and, in
fact  sit down, Ruy, sit down, and let us
talk this matter over quietly."

Ruy rose from his chair while his uncle
drivelled on ; his face had flushed and his
eyes had become unnaturally bright as he
listened ; he took no notice of Kerinvean's
request that he should sit down again, but
said, in a stern voice :

I do not understand why this conversation
should have taken place."

"No, of course not," answered Kerin-
yean, more excited and confused as he

g2

perceived bis nephew's pride coming to
the contest. " but you know I stand now
in the place of her father, and we thought,
the Marchesa thought, that, if you had
any understanding w T with Ingha when you
were my heir, it would only be just to
relinquish any such claim on her
now."

This gratuitous insult is based merely
on conjecture; I never had any claim
save that of friendship on Miss di Garcclli,"
said Ruy, proudly, " and, now that I am
not your heir, I relinquish even that
slight bond. Is there any other urgent
business upon which you wish to speak
before I go?"

No, Ruy, you have behaved like a

Montgomery. Then I can tell her mother
that you will make no effort to see Ingha ?
I understand this ?"

Understand what you choose, Kerin-
veau, I have nothing more to say."

And having so spoken, stung to the heart,
sorely wounded, and without reasoning
the matter, Ruy turned away, and walked
quickly out of a side entrance, followed by
Chum, down a short by-path which led to
the river.

He went on and on unthinking
and unheeding, his brain cons

CD 7

fused, and feeling nothing save the

blow that had been so ruthlessly
dealt.

He walked for miles up the river-side,

over rocks, and moss, and heather, through
woods and fields, obeying a necessity for
motion ; his nerves seemed on fire, and he
heeded not the distance. For many a
weary mile he trudged, but the sun was
hot, and at last he was conscious of
fatigue, so he sat down by the river, and
the " hush, hush " of hurrying waters had
the old spell over him, and he fell
asleep, and, as he slept, dreamed in this
wise :

A little skiff waited beside steep marble
steps that led to a palace, from whence it
is to take him to a ship lying out in the
bay. One last look round the eastern
court filled with tropical flowers, whe

everything is still and solitary and
strangely familiar in the moonlight. Suddenly,
as he turns to descend the steps,
the white-robed form of a maiden, radiant
and smiling, appears, and pointing upwards
to the sky, where but one bright
star glitters in a rift of cloud, she utters,
in a clear, sweet, and well-remembered
voice :

If thou thy star do follow,
Thou canst not fail thee of a glorious port,"

and, while he is intently dwelling on
the last echo of her tones, the vision
vanishes as suddenly as it had appeared.


He descends to the skiff, he voyages far,

wanders through ancient cities and lonely
lands, and lingers longest where Art has
left her impress. Sure, like the pillar of
fire by night and cloud by day, which
guided the ancient Israelites, his star
points always where he shall go. In
every city, every land where Art hasher
trophies and triumphs, there he
toils unerringly, and, though the
star is not withdrawn, he seems to be
ever invoking the vision which appears
not again.

Years pass in the illusive world of his
dream, and those years are spent in toil



and thought so ardent that he seeks nothing
from his fellows save liberty to fulfil
; often sorely tried and discouraged, he

looks where the star should be, and it
shines the clearest when his cares beset
him most.

An hour comes when he is completing
a statue to which all his skill, all his deepest
inspiration have been given ; at length
he essays to rest from his labour, but his
heart still is yearning, and he needs the
incessant presence of his work to keep
up the zealous fires of his imagination.
He looks long at his statue, and then turns
to gaze out into the night. His star is
obscured, and, shuddering, he thinks this
omen presages failure.

Ah ! what sees he as he withdraws from
watching the darkened sky to solace himself
with his art ? The figure of a lovely

woman stands beside his sculptured
Priestess of Song, and bends over it weeping.
He moves forward towards the
maiden, who, turning to him, discloses
again the vision of Ingha, and once
more he hears the thrilling; tones of hero



voice :

Thou hast followed thy star, and
gained the port ; but, ah me ! hast thou
given all th r love to thine Art, while I
have been faithful to thee alone ?"

She holds her arms out yearningly towards
him; but suddenly, in the rapture
of that meeting, his dream broke off.
Solitary at the river side Eoderigue montgomery
was lying, and the " hush, hush ?

of hurrying waters was the only sound he
heard.

He rose up refreshed, calm, and resolute
; whatever betided, he knew nothing
could ever really separate him from Ingha,
even if she herself forsook him he would
love her no less ; but to divide his life's
purpose from thoughts of her was utterly
and for ever impossible. Whatever
barriers should rise between them, while
he struggled to attain, his inspiration
would come from her alone, and his work
and his silent devotion would be altogether
dedicated to her, and perchance one day
his efforts would not be scorned nor his
love despised.

Ay, and meanwhile, if another claimed
her, he knew the star would not even
then grow dim, for it shone alone in the
heaven of his desire, peerless, serene, aud
abiding.

CHAPTER VII.

A GRIM MAESTRO.

Greatness in art (as assuredly in all other
things, but more distinctly in this than in most of
them,) is not a teachable nor damnable thing, but
the expression of the mind of a God-made-great
man ; that teach, or preach, or labour, as you will,
everlasting difference is set between one man's
capacity and another's, and this God-given supremacy
is the priceless thing, always just as rare
in the world at one time as another."

RUSKIN.

I have some wounds upon me, and they smart
To hear themselves remembered."

Shakespeare.

A

ND time rolled on quickly enough for
Ruy Montgomery's work, at which T

first in Paris and then in Rome, be
toiled morning, noon, and night, with
no abatement of energy nor flagging
of care.

I do not propose, under cover of a love
story, to write even a single chapter merely
on the development of power in art,
nor to propagate any heterodox theories
concerning its influence or its worship,
but I must open the studio-door to see
how this man's life purpose was attained.


Notwithstanding the lack of all external
encouragement, Montonierie found satisfaction
daily growing; not that he ever
approved of his own work, but he was
aware of a strength that was born of labour,

and although his own conceptions,
compared with his ideal, appeared to himself
like the grains f sand at the base of
a Colossus, the consciousness of an increasing
power rendered his life more
complete. He worked in clay when daylight
waned, and this was his relaxation
from his easel. His studio in Rome was
filled with crude, original casts and copies
of the ancient sculptures.

He toiled incessantly for two years,
so that, with all his previous practice
and study, he was now sufficiently proficient
to reproduce with great fidelity
pictures and frescoes, and for these
copies he found ready purchasers, though
he had sternly kept a resolution of never

offering for sale any conception of ibis
own.

About this time a celebrated painter
chanced to see a study Ruy bad made from
an almost obliterated fresco, and perceiving
in it a subtle difference from the original,
which foretold that the copyist would one
day bave a more skilful hand than be wbo
bad drawn the model, be sought the studio
of the unknown Roderisme Montgomery,
and when he discovered bis was no other
than the stalwart form and noble face
be bad once seen, and since had vainly
looked for, the old man's pleasure was
doubled. He persuaded Ruy to give him
sittings for a great historical picture which
afterwards became a national possession ;

and many hours were spent by these two
in congenial labour. The Maestro became
a great influence in Ruy's life ; his house,
which had once been a palace, was frequented
by the most celebrated artists of
Europe, as well as by the art-loving people
of the western world, and he distinguished
the young stranger by a familiarity which
was as rare in his communion with his
fellows as it was generous and wholesome.
This genius had long ago passed the
rubicon of the critics, and now, had he cared
to do it, could have led them, but he never
patronized. Montgomery found his counsel
of infinite value, and, having asked him
whether he would advise him to seek tuition
from some recognized master by gain-vol.

III. H

ing admission as pupil to his studio, the
old man answered warmly :

"What more can he teach thee than thou
already knowest ? thine own ignorance
and inexperience are chiefly thine hindrances,
will it aid either to pry into his
failures ? By work and by comparison
thou wilt evolve more than thou canst
ever learn from the schools. The' can
give thee rules by which to learn to draw,
and can tell thee how to mix thy colours
in their fashion, but afterwards thou
wilt see that they could not teach thee
more than thou couldst have learnt working
perseveringly with thy pencil alone.
Thine own eye has already made thee
draw correctly, and Nature will tell thee

more about thy foolish mixture of colours
than the schools. Thou hast youth wherewith
to labour, hope to make thee diligent,
and the heritages of all the ages to be
thy guides. Be ever chary of teachers
who do not themselves labour, for he who
knows not by experience the difficulties
and impossibilities, is not to be trusted
about the results."

But cowardly as the fear is," answered
Ruy, " I foresee that when I put forward
my own conceptions the critics will say I
studied in no school, and will pass me over
slightingly or in scorn."

The old man's eyes burned with sudden

fire and he quickly responded :

Hast thou then stooped so far as to

h2

contemplate drinking from such stagnant
pools ? has a scare that thy work may
become the prey of kites and vultures got
hold on thee whom the gods have consecrated
? Dost thou not know that they
demolish only carrion, that the thing which
has life immortal wings its way far above
their ravaging swoop ? If thou fear not
and art true, thou wilt mount deathless.
I had a son who too soon was known to
them ; his work was inspired, but, God in
Heaven ! they crucified him when they had
perceived he was timorous. His haud
could no more have helped doing work
that proclaimed his genius, than the pencil
of Michael Angelo could have been
stayed when he designed the David, but

he early became the victim of the ignorant.
Ah, my young brother, keep thy heart
fixed on the serenity of the stars, not on
the din of human voices, and thy works
shall live and testify of thee when the
critics are forgotten."

But, without their zeal, might not some
become too confident?" asked Ruy ; "do
not they serve to check the too ardent
and crush the false ?"

I tell thee no, they serve but their own
occult purposes, whatever they may be.
We who work need to be ardent, what is
false will die naturally. If thou art discerning
thou knowest too well wherein
thou hast failed, and also what thou, by
patience, hast attained ; and if thou art

faithful thou will labour till thy faults are
corrected. The contest becomes each day
more unequal ; on the one side Art, which
from remote ages has left its impress on the
world, and her children, who should study
to be quiet and are only strong in silent
labour. On the other side is ranged the
band that is ever increasing, glib of tongue
and pen, a changeful, variable throng,
who, with a small element of critical acumen
and emptied catacombs of Satanic
audacity, handle the sacred things of Art's
altar, and lash the weak ones into despair.
Unheeding them, my brother, be diligent
to follow none but the highest, and, if ever
thou hast visions that excel, the true will
honour thy work despite thine enemies.

Content thee at present reproducing the
greatest creations, if imperfectly, then
again and again, till thou canst do them
faithfully, and anon essay thine own
imaginings, and it may be thou wilt have
gained, with increased facility, larger and
more beatific vision."

The old Maestro's sriiii indifference to
criticism was well known, though he rarely
gave voice to such strong denunciations
as these to his young friend whom many
envied for the privilege of his preference.
He had heard from time to time something
of Buy's career, and it had deepened
his admiration for his character ; he foresaw
that such determined resolution and
vigorous self-reliance would best developed

the genius which underlay his persistent
perseverance, and he had a ready sympathy
for the spirit which had chosen its own
flight and had not shirked the initiatory
monotony 7 of sternest labour.

The old man well knew that there are
no greater diversities in any careers than
in the different preparations for lives to
be devoted to Art. He had seen those
who had learnt from the schools everything
it was possible for them to impart, and
how weary had been the unlearning. And
he had known others, more rare, who had
to cultivate their own powers b} r unflagging
toil and unwearied observation, who
had to extract knowledge from their own
repeated failures, but whose acquirement

ultimately was richer than ever it could
have become by the teaching of those
who themselves had not climbed up the
same steep paths, and he recognised
Montgomery as belonging to this latter
band.

At length, after three years of absence
from England, Ruy decided to return and
to seek a studio for himself in London.
When he informed the Maestro of his
purpose, the old man showed visibly his
deep regret.

"Ah!" said he, "I feared thou wouldst
not long content thee away from thy
native land, and it is right that thou
shouldst return if inspiration comes to
thee freest under thine own skies ; but, ah

me ! how cold they are, and yet how-lovely
the maidens ! Tell me, is it thy
Betrothed there who recalls thee, my
brother ?"

"No," answered Ruy, "there is none
who need me. My heart was long years
ago given to one born in your own beloved
Italy."

And she, does she know that thou
lowest her ?"

11 Yes, Maestro, but it is in vain ; she is
far as the stars above me."

How can that be ?" The old man's
eyes were eager as he spoke. " Thine is
a noble name, they tell me ; thou hast
Fame in thy grasp ; thou art a beautiful

youth. Is she blind, my brother?"
"No," said Ruy, smiling; "but it can
never be, and I am content to have known
the bliss of loving her without the gift of
her love."

"Thou art not content," returned the
Maestro; "the marks on thy brow are
those of sad thought, and yet thou hast
not seen the winters of thirty years.
Sancta Maria ! this is a poet, a Dante, an
inspired. And thy Beatrice, is she beau*
tif ul ?"

Maestro, I see all women beautiful in
the radiance of her loveliness, and, moreover,
she is high born, gifted, and a
priestess of song."

'rand thou, thou who art climbing into
the royal platform where only the great
ones stand, dost thou willingly forego
God's complete purpose for thee ?"

"Not willingly, Maestro; but I am
powerless in this."

Do another's arms enfold her?" asked
the old man, persistently.

A shudder passed over Kuy which his
friend perceived as he waited the answer.


"God forbid !" said Montgomery, involuntarily.


"Ay, and thou must forbid it too!"
returned the Maestro, solemnly. "She
loves thee, this rare maiden. She will be
thy bride when thou plainest her. Thou

bast the gloom of thine own mountains in
thy heart, but take courage, my brother,
she waited for thee. Actio !"

CHAPTER VIII.

"what's past, and what's to come is
strewed with husks."

fTlHE questions of the Maestro at their
last interview had wrung* from
Ruy a confession which resulted in his
friend's clear sight perceiving a ray of
hope, but as yet it was only a trembling
glimmer.

No one but Archie would have ever

ventured to speak so openly about a subject
on which he volunteered no confidences,
and often as Ruy had plodded on
alone and cheered he had yearned for
the ring of the manly laugh, and for the
humorous, kindly, unfailing encouragement
without which life had lost its young
zest. The sadness of his features did not
belie his feelings ; Archie was not forgotten
; and the strange mournfulness, that
more than ever gave him resemblance to
the portrait of his ill-fated ancestor, will
never now leave the face of Roderigue
Montgomery.

Ingha had keenly suffered in consequence
of Ruy's seeming coldness in not
having sought a meeting with her on his

return from Africa, and, after she had received
from her mother the tidings that
he had relinquished even the friendship
between them, she had resolutely hidden
her feelings from Marie.

For upwards of two years Ruy had not
heard Ingha's name. Marie had never
mentioned it in her letters, indeed, she
was perplexed to know his wishes, for she
had no clue to the truth.

Ingha concluded that pride was the
cause of Ruy's apparent indifference, but
her absolute faith never swerved, and her
solace and hope lay in the fact that her
lover was endeavouring to accomplish his
vocation, and would one day fulfil the hint
she had apprehended of his love in the past,

that was so near and yet seemed so faraway.
She grew reserved, but bore her

sorrow uncomplainingly. She longed to
see her hero, waited on month after month,
year after year, faithful and fond, resolved
that nothing but his own spoken words
should ever make her free, though not
words of his from the lips of another ; but
oh ! Ruy never dreamed of the ceaseless
ache of those tarrying years.

At length, arriving in London, Ruy
found some rooms in Kensington, which
he furnished in a manner characteristic of
his taste, very simply, with nothing incongruous
nor superfluous. It was here
that Sir Dallas Gore, returning with his
regiment from India, where he had

VOL. III. i

joined on leaving the Zambesi, found
his friend.

And so this art life satisfies you,
Montgomery ?" asked Gore, somewhat
incredulously.

Well, on the whole, yes. It is not
exciting, but there is enthusiasm in it,
and immense pleasure in surmounting
the difficulties," said Ruy, thoughtfully.


Not in attacking them : you mean
after they have been surmounted ? I
imagine toil mast always be a curse, don't
you?

I can't agree with you," responded
Montgomery. " The labour and the
satisfaction are indissoluble ; who can

separate them ? and life is only complete
when pain and pleasure are mingled."

It strikes me your pleasure must all
consist in hope," said Gore, looking round
the room seeking, but finding nothing,
to contradict his assertion.

11 No, it does not. I am too gloomy to
hope much, or to live in anything but the
actual present, and I think the absorption
of all my thoughts on my work may possibly
bring fruition nearer than if I dissipated
them in dreams ; besides, the days
are too short for all one plans to do, and
the future is both vague and uncertain.
I don't doubt that if I labour on fifty years
I shall be able to paint something that
may live after I am dead ; and, to come

i2

down to solid fact, I suppose an artist
should have no desire nor excitement beyond
that sort of anticipation."

But, Montgomery, surely you see
some change ahead," said Gore, warmly.
It would be frightful to have nothing to
contemplate between you and a dead man's
fame."

u I told you,. Gore, I did not dwell on
that hope, ifc is not particularly cheerful,
and I find the difficulties occupy my
mind so constantly, I have not much time
for anything else."

I wish you would leave them fora
while, Montgomery, and come to Scotland
with me," said Sir Dallas, in a serious
voice. " The last time I tried to persuade

sou to join rne in an expedition I was
not successful, and I believe now you
were right ; but, you have been working
so long and so hard, a holiday would
do you worlds of good. Besides I am
going to Invean, and your sister will be

there."

"I shall see her in London next season,
I hope," answered Ruy. " She has
not been here since I came home, but she
is sure to come up next year."

Montgomery," said Sir Dallas, after
a pause, " I am going to  to try my
luck."

"Are you, Gore?" Ruy comprehended
at once to what his friend alluded, and
added, " I sincerely hope you may be successful,

but I am sure she thinks of Archie
still."

So do I," generously responded Sir
Dallas. " I don't want her not to think
of him, but if she would give me a chance

to win my way some time, I would be content
with very little from her till she could
give me more. 1 am sure there is no
treachery to Flash in speaking to her
now, for I believe he contemplated it himself,
after he knew I cared for her, and I
don't want to supplant him. I honour
your sister too much to expect that she,
any more than I myself, could low
another man as deeply as Archie Campbell
: he was friend and brother to

1

me.

And to me even more !" said Ruy,
mournfully.

"But still," went on Sir Dallas, " we
Lave to live our lives ; how empty and
vacant mine is, I only know. If your
sister could give me any hope, I would
leave the service and attend to my place.
I know it is my duty to look after things,
and to spend some of my income on the
land. What the money is accumulating
for, Heaven only knows, but all I take of
it is merely a tithe. Alone, life at home
would be simple misery, and, if she cannot
be won, the only thing I shall look for is
active service ; there, at least, would be
excitement, and of course it would yield

a sort of satisfaction to rue to know that
my fifteenth cousin, who should come after
me, would mourn the fate of the late
baronet who found his death on the field
of battle !"

I thought you remarked five minutes
asfo that it would be frightful to have
nothing to contemplate between you and
a dead man's fame, and here you are enlarging
on the advantages of it in your
own case !"

Ruy saw that Gore's mirth was altogether
strained, and would fain have cheered him,
but he dreaded saying anything which
might lead him to anticipate more from
Marie's decision than Ruy believed was
possible.

I wish you would change your mind
and come with me, Montgomery. Mrs.
Campbell would rejoice to have a visit
from you, and really I don't think you
devote yourself enough to your fraternal
responsibilities," said Gore, persuasively.


Oh ! but Marie understands, and is
not the least exacting ; besides, Invean is
too near the Castle, and you will find I am
not wanted in my old home. No, Gore, I
can't give myself that sort of holiday yet,
but when you return come and see me,
and tell me how you fared ; and," Ruy
added, smiling, "if you can make Marie
see things with your light on" them, I shall

rejoice with you, and somehow I think our
old Archie would be on your side, if he-knew
!"

CHAPTER IX.

l\ Forlorn HOPE.

"The soul of Adonis, like a star,
Beacons from the abode where the Eternal are."

Shelley.

O(0B,R,0W and time bad wrought a

change on Marie Montgomery. She

was still fair and stately, but the bright

exuberance of youth and hope were gone

for ever; her dark grey eyes had now the
look that grief gives, as if tears fell readily,
and her smile did not come as quickly as
of yore. Many months of each year were
spent at Invean, for she was almost as
much beloved by the bereaved father as
Archie himself had been, and to Mathilda
she was even as a daughter.

"We are all so glad you have come
back," was her welcome to Sir Dallas,
though its frank sweetness showed how
little she suspected his errand.

Mrs. Campbell soon divined the state of
her guest's feelings, and, in a simple,
serious fashion peculiar to herself, aided
him, giving him opportunity of quiet,
uninterrupted talks with Marie, planned

with . the tact that is the outcome of
genuine sympathy.

One evening Sir Dallas found Marie
alone in the drawing-room where she was
sitting at a window, a book on her knee
which she had not been reading ; she was
looking out on the loch and hills with
that oft-habitual gaze of listlessness and
apathy. Gore walked to the window and
stood opposite to her, silently absorbed in
his own thoughts.

They were a goodly pair to look upon,
and near them was a portrait of Archie
painted when he was in his eighteenth
year. Such a bright, handsome, young
face, all aglow with that dauntless, gleeful
smile his friends knew so well. The artist

126 TIME AND CHANCE.

bad caught the inspiration of the buoyant
nature, and had painted the likeness with
an expression that was quite familiar to
his face after manhood.

Sir Dallas went nearer the picture and
looked at it long and earnestly, and then
came back and stood beside Marie.

That portrait makes me feel a boy
again ; I knew him so well in those days,"
he said.

The listless apathy fled from Marie's
face, but the interest to which it gave
place was not for the speaker, and he
marked the change, but, true to his
friend, he only felt the hopelessness of his
own desires.

Yes," said Marie, " he so often talked

of you, and you were quite a hero to us
younger ones ; you were always such a
good friend to him  to the very last," she
added, her voice faltering as she tried to
look up at her companion. " Your letter
did comfort me more than I thought anything
could ;" her eyelids drooped, and
she nervously twisted the ring in which
Archie's only white stone was now brightly
gleaming.

Have you," she said, after a pause 
have you anything to tell me of that
little time when you were alone together,
just before  just before Archie died ?"

"No," answered Sir Dallas, too generous
to make use of that last message
unless despair drove him to do so ; " Ruy

will have told you more than I heard or
saw. Ah ! Marie, you had your noblest
lover iu him, but God knows I do not
boast when I say that, since I first saw
you, I have never had one thought
that was not true to you. I do not
ask yet for your love, but surely there
is some common ground on which we can
meet, if no other union be possible, then a
fellowship of grief?"

Marie had become very pale ; she fully
comprehended that the man before her
was staking his all in a sorry venture ;
there was no chord he touched which did
not jar, till he uttered the word "grief'*
and then she felt his full sincerity. She
also saw it in the tender expression of his

dimmed eyes as be turned and moved
across unthinkingly to Archie's portrait.
Marie glanced up at it, and her boy-lover
seemed to be smiling down upon them
with a look which conveyed the thought
that they could serve him now no more
but by joy and love.

Sir Dallas," said Marie, in a gentle
voice, "your words have surprised me. I
did not dream of this."

"Do you find anything strange in it?"
he asked. " Flash and I were always on
the same side, and what wonder that the
same love should sway us."

You know my story ?" pleaded Marie.
I have had so little happiness, and yet
in that brief past all the possibility of love

VOL. III. K

seems buried, though I do not think I
can ever quite lose Archie out of my
life."

11 I do not ask that you should ; I ask
no favour yet, save that you will let me be
something to you, your friend, Archie's
friend, anything, but do not condemn me
to the drear banishment 1 have borne so
many years."

You are very generous," said Marie,
very patient, but oh, I know I can never
love again."

"Ah, Marie, it seems to me sometimes
as if 1 had enough love for us both, as
if love would grow in your heart too had I
some claim upon you. I can wait on  I
have grown so used to waiting  for years.

if, at the end, I may hope for something."


I know how good you are," said Marie,
sadly, "but I dare not promise even a
friendship that would be worth your prizing
; for, when I am alone, I never think
of anyone or anything but the past, for it
still fills my heart."

"Then I must give you Archie's message,
Marie, for I am in sore strait, and
I see my hopes fading out of my life, and
I shall have nothing left, not even a past.
When he was dying, some strange intuition
or sympathy was given him, and,
without a word from me, he divined the
secret I would fain have hid, and he bade
me give this message to you : ' Tell her,'

k2

he whispered, ' I loved you.' Do not think
me cowardly for using his words to aid
my suit ; you best know the meaning of
them, and I implore you to let them have
weight in your decision."

Marie covered her face all the time Sir
Dallas spoke of Archie ; when he ceased,
she rose, her eyes wet with tears, and held
out her hand, and said :

I am not worthy of your love ; if I
had devotion in my will to bestow, it
should be yours, for Archie's sake ; but I
have nothing, not even a hope of ever
feeling different''

And strong yearning to draw the tearstained
face to his breast assailed him,
but he did not even kiss her hand ; and yet

Low often he had thought of the rapture
of once enfolding that form that even in
its apathy was sweeter and dearer than all
the world beside, but the dying voice of
her lover seemed to whisper in his ear
when the temptation now was sorest :
I kissed her only once, Da], and I have
loved her all my life," and he was restrained.
He held her hand a brief moment,
and then with stern resolution
folded his arms across his breast.

Marie," he said, "you are going from
me, but listen one moment ere you go. I
think five years of faithfulness gives me
some right to speak. I tell you now,
whatever I do in future I do it with reference
to the hope that one day you will

relent ; hush, dear, this is no hurried
resolve, and whatever you say I cannot
change it. I know that at present it is
impossible for you to contemplate the
thought of marriage, but I will wait on
and on till one of us two shall die, loving
you just the same. God knows I tried to
crush my feelings when it was sin to
think as I do now. Archie put the hope
into my hands freely, voluntarily, and, in
God's sight, he gave you to me ; though
you never ratify his act you cannot cancel
it. I ask nothing: from you vet, not even
a promise that you will try to think differently,
but I trust } t ou will not banish me.
I will not trouble you with my presence
too frequently, and if I cannot win you r

Marie, you shall have no cause to be
ashamed of the lover your coldness will
doom."

But it was no fortified citadel this
knightly soldier was storming, only a
rudderless wreck that was drifting over
the dark waters where her goodly argosy
went down, and yet in his sight it was a
prize whose equal he would never again
behold !

She went out from his presence weeping,
and he, feeling the strong pity which is
ever allied to a noble passion, satisfied or
hopeless, swore to be patient with her, ay,
and to serve and watch her tenderly from
this day forward for evermore.

And she ? Only a low moan of " Archie !

Archie ! my Darling ; you said for Eternity,

did you regret your vow when Time was

nearly over ? my Love ! my only, only

Love !"

* & # i #

Is not the gleaning of the grapes of
Ephraim better than the vintage of
Abiezer ?"

CHAPTER X.

THE STORY OF YOUNG MAY MORN.

0, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound,
That breathes upon a bank of violets
Stealing and giving odour."

Shakespeare.

FT was a great mortification to her
mother that Ingha di Garcelli so steadfastly
maintained her decision of not
marrying. She was now on the eve of
possessing her accumulated inheritance,

and, as it would make her in every respect
independent of control, the Marche
dreaded that her maternal influence would
anon have less power in bringing about
any matrimonial scheme which she deemed
desirable.

Ingha's safeguard against the temptations
to frivolity, in which disappointment too
often seeks excitement, was the gratification
she ever found in the pursuit of her
art. It was the magical o-olden thread
which still bound her to her lover ; though
parted from him, and knowing almost
nothing of his present experiences, she
kept faith with herself, and so was true to
her ideal of life, believing that, so long as
they both laboured to attain the same

goal, they would one day have the reward
they most desired.

She performed the duties that claimed
her sweetly and seriously, and had no
leisure to search for novelties nor for new
sensations ; her study of music and practice
of her voice filled all the hours she
could take from other engagements, and
ennui from inertness or from lack of
occupation she never experienced. Ingka's
voice had become a marvel of exquisite
power, and verily she had attained the
wish of her earlier years ; she had now
the gift of song in a rare degree, but she
never knew how great was her inspiration,
and her unconsciousness of her genius was-remarkable.


Marie did not spend the season in
London as Ruy bad expected. She came
up to see her brother, but remained only
a fortnight, and returned to her friends at
Invean, having promised Ingha that she
would stay with her all the following
year.

Ingha knew of Ruy being established in
Kensington, and, as the weeks went by,
she, eagerly expectant, looked in every
fresh scene, hoping for a glimpse of the
form that was ever easily perceived amid
a crowd of its fellows ; but Ruy's haunts
were not those frequented by the Marcellus,
and so Ingha looked in vain.

Lady Kinaire, quick and observant, especially
in matters which concerned the

happiness of her friends, noticed that often
when she met Ingha unexpectedly in the
park, or elsewhere, she appeared to be
looking for some one, and that her expression
was then perturbed and anxious, and
she noted also that the girl was ever ready
to accede to any proposal to visit places
where there were public gatherings ; and
Lady Kinaire conned these things over in
her clever, little, Irish head.

Ingha never missed any opportunity of
going to picture exhibitions, for there she
naturally thought she would be more
likely to meet Ruy than elsewhere : she
might have met him over and over again
at these places, for often she went the
same days that he too chose, but Ingha' s

opportunities did not occur in the early
mornings, and Buy never went to them at
other hours.

Lady Kinaire divined the cause of
Ingha's disquiet, and determined to find
out Mr. Montgomery and, if possible, to
discover what probability there still remained
of her pet romance ending happily.
She procured his address from Marie, and
did not lose any time in devising an
excuse for calling upon him.

Ruy received the visit with some surprise
and much cordiality, for he had
always felt a sincere liking for the bright,
little lady who had, in the old days,
been uniformly genial and friendly to him.

After their first greetings were over, Lady
Kin aire said :

We have so often missed you during
all these long years, and now I suppose
you are so much devoted to art you would
consider time wasted on oar interests and
pleasures."

~No time could be wasted in your
society," Ruy answered, "but my work is
my main consideration, and I find it very
exigent, as you doubtless know."

They tell me," said Lady Kinaire.
"that you paint portraits, and I am most
anxious to have my child's. Will you
accept the commission ? I think you will
not find him an ugly subject, and, as I will

gladly myself bring Harold to you for the
sittings, I will try to prevent him boring
you very much."

Her tone was so winning, Ptuy could
not have refused even if he had wished,
but, as he had a premonition that association
with the Kiuaires night bring hi m
into contact with Ingha, he resolutely
determined to check any social intercourse
that was not connected with the work
which alone could brine: them ultimate] v
together.

A little further conversation about the
kind of portrait she wanted, half an hour
spent in looking over the contents of
Montgoinerie's atelier, and Lad T Kinaire
departed.

The weeks wore on, Harold's picture
proceeded, but, during the sittings, Lady
Kinaire discovered that the artist became
increasingly absorbed in his work. She
would fain have spoken of Ingha, but
opportunity never occurred, save for the
mention of her name, when Ruy always
maintained a studied silence.

Little Harold liked his visits to the
atelier, and, after the second week, Lady
Kinaire thought it better to leave the
child and to call for him when the sitting
was over.

Ruy had a very winning and sympathetic
way with children, and they rarely
wearied of his company. He had fascinated
Harold by descriptions of the ad-vol.

III. L

ventures of an imaginary traveller, and
the boy, who was as bright aucl clever as
his mother, appreciated the unusual character
of Ruy's style of relating a story, for
it went on at each sitting, and Euy alway
left off when Harold seemed most interested
in it, so that the child was eager
enough to return to him.

One day. when the two were alone, portrait
and history alike proceeding, the one
to the satisfaction of the artist, the other
to the delight of the sitter, Harold interrupted
Ruy's narrative by asking
abruptly:

"But did you ever see Young May Morn
aram r

/ see her, Harold ? I am telling you
a story about Eric the Wanderer, and the
people he saw thousands of miles from
here."

I know that," answered Harold,
as if he did not require the information,
" but you are Eric, and Chum is
Jarl, and you call yourself names to
make a story. Miss di Garcelli thinks
so."

"Miss di Garcelli!'' said Buy, looking
at Harold. " Who told her ?"

M Oh, I did. You know, she's a
friend of mine, and when I go to see
Kenneth she tells us stories, such nice
ones, and sings songs in them. Keu-

l2

net doesn't understand all of them,
but I do. I'm older and bigger than
Kenneth, and Miss di Garcelli is
first-rate. You would like her, I'm
sure."

Will you turn your face round a
little, Harold ? You don't sit so still today."


"Don't I? Well, I'll try, but tell me,
Mr. Montgomery, have you got a sweetheart
? I have, and she's so pretty,
and dances with me at parties, and
I'm going to marry her soon. Have
you got a sweetheart, like Eric
had ?"

I never go to parties, Harold," said
Buy, smiling. "I have to work all

the time. I'm not so well off as
you.

Well, I'll tell mother I want you at
ray next party. Miss di Garcelli is coming,
and you'll see her, and I'm sure you
will say she is just as beautiful as Young
May Morn. May I look at that book
on the table ?" added the boy, who did
not wait for an answer, but went to the
table where the coveted book was lying.

Ruy either did not remember that there
were several sketches in it, or did not
heed Harold's request, for the drawings
fluttered about the table before Ruy perceived
what the child was doing.

Oh, how pretty !" said the boy. " Who
is this ?"

Oh ! these are only a few sketches of
Young May Morn," answered Ruy, in
some confusion, as he gathered there up
again.

They are just like Miss di Garcelli !"
exclaimed Harold. " I told you she was
quite as pretty as Young May Morn. I
wish you would let me take these to
show her."

"Why, Harold?"

u Because she asked me what Young
May Morn was like, but I did not know,
and I could only tell her that she used to
sing in the canoe when Eric was away
from her, and that always brought him
back again."

Well, and what did Miss di Garcelli
say ?" asked Ruy, with a wild longing for
some token of her remembrance of the
past.

She said she wished she knew the
pretty songs that Young May Morn could
sig.

At this moment Lady Kinaire returned ;
she said, on entering :

I am sure you must be tired of my
boy ; I did not mean to be so long incoming,
but I was unexpectedly detained."


I have been more than ever delighted,"
answered B,uy, with sincerity, putting
aside the sketches of Young May Morn.

"I am only sorry the portrait will be so
soon completed."

"Mother," said Harold, "Mr. montgomery
has never been to a party, and he
hasn't got a sweetheart yet ; won't you ask
him to come on my birthday ?"

Yes, Harold, and I intended to ask
Mr. Montgomery if he would come to
Invereethin for the twelfth," said Lady
Kinaire, winningly. " If you would visit
us, we should be so very much pleased,
and you should have plenty of opportunity
to complete the picture, and to paint
others too, if you wished. Will you be
able to join us ?"

"You are very kind," answered Buy.
but I have already declined Mrs. Campbell's

invitation to Invean for the sake of
remaining at my work. I do most sincerely
appreciate your kindness in asking
me, but I hope you will excuse me, for I
am compelled to deny myself."

But, though Harold's picture be finished,
I trust we shall not lose sight of
each other," said Lady Kinaire, kindly.

"I hope not," answered Euy. " When
you come back to town, perhaps you will
find time to look in and see that I have not
been idle during your absence. You will
always be sure of a welcome, even if I have
no new pictures to show you."

And so they parted, and Lady Kinaire
acknowledged to herself that she had
effected nothing towards the object that

had prompted her to seek intercourse with
Ruy Montgomery.
Not yet, my lady.

CHAPTER XL

GORE PROPOSES A BREAK IN HIS FRIENDS

ASCETIC LIFE.

But somewhere, unless love forget
His old way,
There shall be something better yet,
Ay, some day."

O'SlIAUGHNESSY.

A Other autumn glided by ; the

heather bloomed again at Kerin-

vero, though unseen and untrodden by

him who yearned for the fresh breezes

that wafted its incense across the land.
Inexorable and uncompromising toil had
taken the place of the long, tireless tramps
over moor and hill ; the salmon swam
the waters deathless for him who had once
been so merciless iu his raids upon them,
and stag and grouse alike were free from
his unerring aim. But his thoughts were
not bounded by the walls of the atelier
where he laboured, and sometimes, when
a bitter wave of memory broke on the
barren shore of his monotonous Present,
an utterable longing took possession of
him, the overwhelming desire that comes
to all who have to struggle on alien
ground, the uncontrollable, quenchless
thirst that can be slacked by no near

flow, and, alas ! the mighty ones, they,
too, are far, and no one bringeth the
coveted " water of the well of Bethlehem
that is at the gate !"

An after gloom, too, assailed Ray with its
dreary, hopeless, endless prospect of working
on and on alone, in the years to come.
He might perchance one day compel fame,
if so be that Fate willed it, but how to
bring love into his life he could not foresee.
His comparative poverty always
rose up between him and a bright, possible
future, and Kerinvean's words, "her
immense fortune," were ever ready to
recur to his mind ; and with no one to
suggest hope, no one to give the praise
which sympathy ever prompts at the needed

moment, what wonder that Lis courage
sometimes almost failed ?

"Yet the name of Roderiguc Montgomery
was becoming known. The sums he
received for his pictures  alas ! his dreams
of marble were none of them yet realized
were fair and satisfactory, but he could
not be persuaded to exhibit save in his
own studio.

Some of his artist acquaintances
envied his " luck ' in being able to
get along without yielding to custom,
others laughed at him for eccentricity.
and the public naturally put its own construction
on this abstinence, which was,
as usual with the public, a construction
wide of the mark.

Ruy bad kept some of his theories inviolate
through the hardships of bis experience,
and one of these was, that art
bas other ends than the mere acquisition
of a livelihood, and be shrank from the
big shops," where the pell-mell, misplaced
crowding of works of fancy and
but rarely of imagination, made the brain
whirl, and the heart sick with surfeit.
His visit to the galleries did not resemble
the ordinary scrambling through them ;
he went sometimes to look at one picture
only, and would unobtrusively stay by it
till its beauty bad penetrated all ibis
soul, and then be would come away, hardly
glancing at any other : this was ibis
instinctively courteous tribute to great

endeavour. It might be said that a man
would not have time to effect much work
who had to make a separate visit for the
study of each picture in the annual exhibitions.
Certainly not, but Montgomery
had no desire (and why should he ?) to
examine all the wonders there available,
and I trow he had the best of it, in
eschewing the majority.

And he carried out his theory regarding
his own completed works ; so long as th
remained in his possession each was
shown by itself, with no distraction
nothing by its side to amuse nor sadden,
just the one picture alone to impress
the looker on. It was not that he had
fear of competing, for he always ranked

his skill on the lowest step of the ladder
of art, and it was his constant merciless
comparison of his own work with
that which he considered masterly, that
often depressed him and prostrated his
hope.

Notwithstanding that his elected mode
of making known his work was one that is
ever slow and hard, he had his followers,
men who appreciated genius, though it
was claimed by no particular society, and
his pictures were bought by these heterodox
patrons who were audacious enough
to spend their money on that which to
them was " bread," instead of moving
earth and sky to procure " a stone."

There are still those who judge the

VOL. III. M

merits of art work without the aid of the
managers of the markets of this generation,
though those who bow the knee to
Baal are a vast majority, composed of the
brotherhood of fashion in art, critics, and
dealers, who all, by turn, pronounce their
incontrovertible ipse dixit of " genuine !" or
"inimitable !" or " marvellous !" upon that
which has neither beauty nor suggestion of
peace to him who yearns for both. Happy
is the lover of Nature aspiring to the knowledge
of art who is not scared when he
hears the customary wrangling over these
so-called masterpieces, for, alas ! the jargon
concerning them is alike confusing and
incessant ; and yet where is he who dare

aver that the day may not come when he
too shall ally himself with those who
shout " Bene !" when the cry should be a
loud and universal " Miserere !"

Autumn and winter waned, the Kerin-
yean household came early back to town,
and Marie was of the party.

Ingha had now absolute control of her
fortune, and lavish she was in the use of
it, more especially when she could aid the
needy, and she never lost an opportunity
of helping or encouraging artists ; they
were the principal poor of her world, and
she regarded this mission to be rare and
unequivocal, which she had no choice but
to fulfil, and very devotedly she set about

m 2

her duty. She understood but little of
business, but, with Marie to assist her,
she determined to put aside no claim
that came from those who laboured in
art.

She insisted on defraying all expenses
incurred by Kerinvean on her account,
and had several servants and horses for
her own use. She tried by every possible
means to make Marie benefit bv the change,
and shared all her pleasures with her friend ;
her own personal gratification she rarely
considered, and was always ready to give
of her abundance where need was known
to her.

When the girls drove out together
Marie never asked Ingha to turn her

ponies in the direction of Ruy's house ;
though she herself spent hours with him,
he maintained such a significant silence
about her daily associates, Marie felt too
much perplexed to try to bring them together.
Eager as Ingha was watching fora
chance meeting with Ruy, it had not yet
occurred.

In the earlier London seasons the
Marchesa had exercised a baffling ingenuity
in monopolising the time Marie and
Ingha would fain have spent in different
pursuits, but Marie's retirement had put
an end to engagements being arranged for
her, and Ingha's independent position now
induced her mother to allow her more
freedom in the choice of her occupations.

Kerinvean chafed to find his presence so
often required by his wife in fulfilling her
social obligations. Town life was always
irksome to him, and had it not been for
his devotion to his son he would have
spent more time in Scotland, but the
Marchesa had decreed that London suited
the boy, so the fond father acquiesced with
a good grace.

Early in the season Lady Kinaire had
planned a great amateur musical performance
for the benefit of a charity in which
her interest had been excited, and she had
determined that this, the only entertainment
of the kind she had ever given,
should be an undoubted success, and she

knew it could only be effected by obtaining
Ingha's co-operation.

Ingha entered into the scheme with her
wonted enthusiasm, readily promising to
give all the aid in her power, and, as Lady
Kinaire had also secured the most skilful
amateur force in town, the arrangements
were soon completed. The Kinaires knew
how to plan a brilliant entertainment, and
neither trouble nor ingenuity was spared.
A large hall was hired, and exquisitely
decorated, and ante-rooms were arranged
for the performers and also for the audience.


On the afternoon of the night of the concert
Ingha was driving Marie, when Fate

decreed that Ruv should be walking in the
same neighbourhood, and that they should
meet him ; the ponies went swiftly by, for
Ingha had not perceived him till it was
too late for recognition ; it was Marie nodding
silently to her brother that attracted
her, and for a few moments she said nota
word, but her hands trembled as with
strong repression she tried to keep back
the tears from the eyes that had so long
and vainly sought what they had just
missed.

Gentle reader ! would you have been
more stoical ? Would you have behaved
one degree better ? You might probably
have used an elegant expletive to express
your feelings, but I think that, if for five

years you had been waiting for some great
desire  though only the glimpse of a dear,
denied face  when it crossed your path
unaware, you would not have borne the
chagrin more bravely than she of whom I
write.

Marie, the wind is cold," she only said ;
shall we drive straight home ?"

"After a meteor has flashed across a
darkened sky, the gloom is tenfold greater
than when we watched for the chance
falling of a star !" was Ruy's thought
as he sped back to his lonely rooms.

He knew by the rushing blood and
thrilling nerves that it was her lovely face
he had seen at his sister's side. Unstrung
and miserable he sat down in his vacant

room to think and ponder over the brief
glimpse that had had so strange an effect
upon him.

Presently the familiar sound of Dallas
Gore's step fell on his ear, and the door
opened, when the friends greeted each
other warmly.

Why, Montgomery, you look as if
you had seen a ghost ; you've been working
far too hard lately. I came in this
afternoon to ask you to dine with me tonight.
There's a rumour of war, and,
while there's a chance of it, I'm on the
alert, and shall feel unsettled till I know.
Will you dine with me and go and hear
some music afterwards ?"

"What music?" asked Ruy, abruptly,
at that moment feeling as if he did not
care ever to hear another note in his
life.

Oh ! it's Lady Kinaire's concert, and I
promised to go and take a lot of fellows.
I've got a host of tickets disposed of, but
I'm not going with Tom, Dick, and Harry.
I was at Kinaire's at luncheon to-day and
heard all the news. At the last moment
the man who has been practising with
Miss di Garcelli has had to leave town, and
she, in despair, has got your sister to take
this fellow's place, she being the only one
who is accustomed to play her accompaniments."


"Marie going to perform in public!"
said Ruy, amazed.

Yes ; isn't it good of her to put her
own inclinations aside to prevent the concert
becoming a failure? I wish you
would go with me ; she would be far less
nervous if you were present."

"Nervous. Who?" asked Ruy, quickly,
stooping to stroke Chum who had listened
intently to the whole conversation. " Must
I go, Chummie ?" he added in an undertone,
whereupon Chum wagged his tail
and pushed his black, cold nose against
Ruy approvingly.

"Marie  your sister, I mean," returned
Gore, " has been so long unaccustomed
to this sort of thing. They say several of

the profession have been trying to get
tickets, there is such a furore about Miss
di Garcelli's voice ; besides, she's so awfully
handsome, and such a favourite. You
haven't seen her lately ?" added Gore,
questioningly.

Yes, I saw her to-day," answered Ruy,
gravely. " I will go with you. Where
do we dine ?"

At my club at seven o'clock. The
concert begins at nine ; I promised Kinaire
to be there early."

Sir Dallas hurried away lest Ruy
should repent his decision ; he had never
dreamed of obtaining his consent ; but
Ruy had tasted the sweet sorrow of a
mere glimpse of her whom his tired soul

yearned for continually ; bis parched lips
had been near the fountain which alone
could refresh him, and still his thirst was
not quenched.

CHAPTER XII.

THE KING IS WANTING MEN, MY Dear !"

H

Half-PAST nine o'clock. The hall
was filled with a brilliant assemblage,

and the concert had just begun.

Ingha di Garcelli was strangely excited,
and even when Lord Kinaire led her forward
for her first song, she had not overcome
the depression consequent on her
disappointment during the drive.

Sir Dallas arrived in time to accompany

Marie to the pianoforte : there was quite a
sensation amongst the audience as the two
lovely performers appeared ; both were
dressed in white. Marie's attire was very
simple, but exquisitely suited to her graceful
figure, soft lace about her throat and
arms, Archie's glittering stone her only
jewel. Ingha's gleaming pearls and white
roses enhanced the glorious beauty that
was more than ever radiant to-night.

Sir Dallas had already told Marie that
her brother was among the audience, but
she had had no opportunity of letting
Ingha know, for they had been surrounded
by people till the moment they had to
appear ; Marie trusted to Fate that her
friend would not be taken by surprise discovering

Ruy's presence suddenly, but the
eyes that have long been watching grow
very keen, and the heart that has long
been waiting is alway bewildered by the
verity of its own hope.

Ere the first tone of her voice reached
Ruy, he had to rise to give room to a lady
to pass to a seat beyond his, and for a few
seconds Ingha's friends thought she would

i5 CD

have broken down ; her voice trembled
through the few bars of a difficult recitative,
and " stage fright," as her tremor
was called, fought hard for mastery, but
the recitative was over at last, and Ingha
knew she would either fail miserably or
sing as she had never sung before, so her
pride came to her aid, though little would
vol. in. N

have made those unshed tears of the
afternoon fall in torrents on her
roses.

She gathered her courage to repress her
amotion, dreading failure before him of
whom alone she thought, and when the
soft strains of the aria, on which Marie,
perceiving Ingha's perturbation, dwelt
lingeringly, stole over her spirit, she gave
herself up to her work, held her roses
tight, and no one would have dreamed of
her heart throbs when her voice took
wing ; she let it soar in its own sweet ringing
clearness out into the world of doubt
and desire. There was no trembling of
purpose apparent, nor a shadow of failure

but her face was pale, and her eyes bright
and eager.

Bravo ! bravo !" said again and again
the delighted audience, and she bowed her
acknowledgment of their applause, but
gave not one glance to the place where,
far behind the front rows, Ruy sat spellbound
and enthralled.

In the ante-room Ingha was warmly
congratulated.

I have heard that stage fright is a
phase amateurs never quite overcome,"
said Sir Dallas, kindly ; u but you did sing
gloriously towards the end."

It wasn't stage fright," answered
Ingha; "I think I lost my way, and the

N 2

people all seemed to be laughing at me r
but I will behave better in my next
song."

The concert proceeded with great spirit,
but it is no part of our story to describe
the performance, save the portion in which
Ingha di Garcelli displayed her wondrous
gift. Ruy was quite insensible to other
influences ; he waited for her, and, when
she again appeared, he drank in the sweetness
of the vision, and listened with all
his soul to the luring melody of her
tones.

When she came for the last time she
was serenely composed, and her peaceful
face betokened no recognition nor memory
of the past. Her song was a little ballad

of the day, with a minor refrain of hopeless
love, a wail for the joy of bygone
years, and she crooned it so pathetically
that it went straight to the hearts of those
fine people who listened, for fine people have
hearts, and many a pang of tender sorrow
is felt under point de gaze and diamonds,
notwithstanding we often hear quite the
contrary.

Ingha smiled and bowed as the applause
became deafening, but her yearning had
spent itself in the sorrow of her song, and
now she hoped to escape from the crowd
and w r keep the tears she owed her own
despair. But the fine people were determined
to hear her again, it was not ever r
night they had the chance of treating one

of themselves to the test of the enthusiastic
begging for over and above the bargain
to which they subject the profession,
and they made the most of the present
opportunity ; besides, Miss di Garcelli was
so munificent in her giving, a song more
or less would be nothing to her.

Kinaire," said old General Gordon,
ask her for a Scotch son. "

Lord Kinaire repeated the request
while Ingha stood reluctant, and the
applause and cheering grew louder and
louder.

Marie, can you recall ' The king is
wanting men, my dear?"

11 Oh, yes: will you sing it?"



I will try," answered Inhale

of it ?" asked Marie, in a lower
tone. " Your verse too ?"

Yes, especially my verse," said the
girl, with strangely quiet decision in her
tone.

And then came the triumph of the
night ; but Ingha was not thinking of
triumph, only of a bend in the river at
Kerinvean in an autumn evening far away
in the past, and of a voice that pleaded fora
song ere the myriad stars shone forth.
And she, standing there before the crowd
in her superb womanhood, in silken sheen,
with the perfume of the white roses wafting
around her, recalling in vivid bitterness

bis gifts long years ago, sang the
same song to him again, adding a wail
that Life's dreary experience had inspired.


The audience listened intently to every
word, but he, her lover, knew she was
singing alone for him.

M Oh ! the king is wanting men, my clear,

And I for one must go,
And for the very life of me

I darn answer no !
For I am bound to go, my love,

Where no one shall me know,
But the bonny lassie's answer

Was aye, no, no !

Oh ! I'll cut off my yellow hair.
And cro alone: with thee.

THE KING IS WANTING MEN, MY DEAR !" 185

And I'll be thy faithful comrade

In a foreign countrey.
For I am bound to go, my love,

Where no one shall me know,
But the bonny lassie's answer

Was aye, no, no !

Oh, stay at home, my dearest dear,
And cinna Cans: wi' me,

CO /

For it's little, little do ye ken

The dangers of the sea.
For I am bound to go, my love,

Where no one shall me know,
But the bonny lassie's answer

Was aye, no, no !"

The laddie sailed sae far wa'

Beyond her ken at hame.
She waited, waited faithfully,

But ah ! he never came.

And hearts forlorn are bound to break.

For love is full of woe :
But wad she tak her fond vow back \

I trow, no, no !

The applause was loud aud prolonged,
bouquets were thrown at Ingha's feet, and
among there a wreath of white roses,
which Lord Kinaire gave to her. She
seemed in a trance, and all suddenly her
gaze went over the crowd in search of
Ruy, and for one brief, wild moment the
rush of memories in both hearts was
unutterable.

The Marchesa, regarding her daughter,
proud of her rare beauty, as well as of
her splendid success, said to the ever
sympathetic little Kathleen Kinaire, who,

THE KING IS WANTING MEN, MY DEAR !" 187

like her friend, did not dream of Ruy's
presence :

Ingha is wonderfully composed considering."


CHAPTER XIII.

SAINT CECILIA.

All the great men see what they paint before
they paint it,  see it in a perfectly passive manner,
 cannot help seeing it if they would ; whether
in their mind's eye, or in bodily fact, does

not matter ; it being

to them in its own kind and degree always a true
vision or Apocalypse, and invariably accompanied
in their hearts by a feeling correspondent to the
words, * Write the things which thou hast seen, and

the things which are.' "

Buskin.

A ND

ND Ruy?

The uncontrollable impulse that

had prompted him to accompany Sir
Dallas to the concert had kept him listening
as in a dream, though Ingha's
presence was not one whit more real to
him than it had been through all the
dreary years of his lonely struggling,
in which there would have been no
gleams of hope save for her, and, intangible
as they had been, they had shed
a lingering light on the mazes of his
effort and labour.

As her voice thrilled his soul with its
ecstatic sweetness, and the familiar strains
wandered like a rare bird's song in the
world of his dreams Ruy sat in a transport
of exquisite feeling, unconscious of
all other influences. The rapture which

her singing was wont to give him was unspeakably
intensified to-night ; she cast
the unforgotten sweet spells upon him ;
even the first trembling echoes of the recitative
had the same compelling power as
of old, which he remembered so well tonight.


Anon, when Ingha's strong will had
repressed all her disquiet, the stream of
melody flowed on ; it seemed to Ruy that
the sluice-gates were opened, and his dry,
arid thirst recklessly drank in the refreshing
flood, as only they can quaff who have
been Ion a: athirst in sight of rivers remote

i!3 CD

and inaccessible.

Montffomerie s intent face was still and

calm, it gave no indication of his rapturous
emotion ; he seemed to know no one, nor to
care for none, for all suddenly the current
of his life had reached the infinite sea ;
there were no longer any hindrances to his
course, the great waves of joy rolled on,
and their white glistening crests told of
triumphant gladness ; he was a struggling
artist no more, but rather, for the hour,
one inspired, to whom the glorious visions
of his boyhood came back with the dew
of youth and hope upon them. As the
night wore on his love waxed bold, he
seemed at last to be grasping the star
that had lighted the gloom of his night,
aud he knew full well that her serene

orbit had not been disturbed by the
crossing of any other whose magnitude
had eclipsed his own in her faithful
reckoning.

At length Ingha's allotted part of the
programme having been sung, the encore
was vociferously demanded, and he, who
had never once applauded, waited with an
impetuous desire, in which fear was mingled
; he yearned that some act of hers
would link the past with to-day, that
present bliss might for a brief moment
shut out the years of drear misery that
had separated them. Oh ! for oue halcyon
near glimpse of his Elysium, ere Fate
ao-ain drove him from its shores to the
dark and lonely waters, whose winds

might never more bring him within sight
of the Isles of the Blessed, of which the
beauty and promise were now delighting
his soul.

He waited breathlessly till she began
the tender little ballad that had so prophetically
touched him when she had sung
it at the river-side for him alone. But
the last verse was new to him, and, as the
words came forth in those tenderly pathetic
strains that are only ever possible
to a violin or to a human voice, a wild
irrepressible joy, for all the song's pathos,
took possession of Ruy ; he knew that
Ingha had composed the sequel to the
ballad, and why ?

The applause was renewed, and, as Ingha

VOL. III.

bowed again and again to the audience, it
seemed to her that the noise would never
cease, and it was then for the second time
that night that her longing eyes met
Ruy's.

He was standing when her gaze for a
transient recognition sought his ; her impulse
to see him once more was no less
overwhelming than Montgomery's yearning
for the look she gave, and in that
blissful greeting her beauty seemed to
him incomparably beyond his memory of
it, wholly transfigured as it was by the
intensity of her love, and the excitement
of an experience, sorrowful as it
was sweet.

Out into the night went Kuy, impelled
by a wish to transfer the vision he had
seen into art ; for, alas ! by no other way
could he be brought to his goal. Should
he succeed, she at least would be obeyed,
for had she not years ago told him to
paint Saint Cecilia, and had not the time
now come when he felt possessed of the
power to accomplish ? Full of her inspiration,
he quickly sped through the streets,
and it seemed to him that the lights thereof
were all stars singing in their courses, and
that the bitter east wind bore to him the
perfume of thousands of whitest roses

X

from the blooming gardens of the Hesperides.



o 2

On reaching his home he did not sit
down to brood over the events of the
night, did not purposelessly live over andover
again the sweet moments of enthralment.
A subtle power forced him to act,
and, telling Chum he was going to work,
Chum acquiesced, and went back to his
corner, from whence he came at nights,
for his most cherished pleasure, which
consisted in listening to Kuy's stories of
the future. In these his master always
prophesied happy hunting grounds for
him, like Kerinvean, where Chum should
have his soul no longer vexed with the
obsequious addresses of curs, nor the
purring of cats with claws, nor with mice
whose fleetness too often eluded his grip.

Chum never insisted on his own amusement,
and, if Ruy were not in the mood for
story-telling, the wise Eskimo always
waited till another opportunity ; he and
his master both possessed the 
courage that makes spirits
patient.

Euy went straightway to his atelier, put
a bare canvas on an easel, and ere he
went to rest had sketched upon it the face
and form of her who was the love of his
whole life, as she had appeared when her
yearning gaze, rapturous and sorrowful,
had sought his, when her very hands had
seemed about to stretch over the crowd to
stay his going.

Her own conception of Saint Cecilia at

last, and, though Ruy had sought that look
of mingled joy, love, and grief in faces
wherever he had wandered, never had he
seen it till now. There was in it the
infinite yearning that comes into human
eyes but rarely, which Ingha had described
as her idea of Cecilia's emotion when
Valerian was inspired with courage to
fulfil a martyrdom cruel as his love was
strong.

The picture was faithfully designed,
even to the wreath, of which the " Anchorage
Catholicon ' makes full mention
in its short account of this most sublime
of all the saints, of whom, alas ! we
know so little, even the organ of the

Confraternity of the Sacred Christ, and
Agony of our Lord," containing but four
pages about Saint Cecilia. How remarkable
it is that all the traditions of the
Romish church are both brief and
confused. The scant records of her
noblest martyrs are ever made subservient
to the supernatural, and her
gravest historians mislead us as to the
undoubtedly marvellous gifts of those
of whom they write. The chronicles,
alike of saint and sinner, are a tangled
web of mystical lore, from which it
is ever difficult to unravel the suppressed
thread of the real life and
work.

Kuy felt that this picture would decide
whether his power in art was God-given
or mere acquirement, and he toiled
unremittingly upon it, essaying nothing
meanwhile, save the same subject in clay.
He worked for weeks with the old Titanic
force which he had ever at will when the
dominant idea was stronger than the
ordinary every day inducement, and his
energy was as unwearying as when Archie
and he together tried in the early days to
force their luck.

"What have we here?" asked a rich
dealer who frequented Ruy's studio, and
sometimes bespoke his pictures before
they had left the easel, and who had
been to-day announced in the atelier

ere* Ruy had had time to screen his
work.

i4 Oh, nothing but a design so far, but
I hope it will developed into St. Cecilia
by-and-by," answered Ruy, wishing this
visitor had not seen the canvas.

You have got a rare model," persisted
the dealer, " but the subject is a
mistake ; it's worn out and threadbare.
Society at present cares nothing for
saints and martyrs, and would rather
not be reminded of their having ever
existed."

"But we don't paint altogether for the
present," said Ruy, "and the face I am
working on does not suggest a picture I
shall offer for sale."



But you will sell it, notwithstanding,
remarked the dealer, decisively. " The
most eccentric of you would far sooner
see the best thing he ever did on another
man's wall than on his own ; it's
the natural love of appreciation with
which some of us are shifted more
than others. I like this face. I wish
you would use it for a popular theme,
and give up your idea of canonizing your
model. "

Ruy smiled, and tried to change the
subject, but the dealer was an obstinate
specimen of the class, and possessed an
impregnable belief in his own unassailable
tenets of art, as well as in his

own really circumscribed knowledge of
character.

u There isn't the least approval amongst
the connoisseurs for ideal religious subjects,"
said he. " Goddesses and syrens,
smiling or weeping, nude or no, it matters
not, have far more chance ; and a beautiful
face, however cleverly painted, is handicapped
for the buying public if you essay
to make a saint of her. The ignorant,
who are the majority, don't know who she
was, and don't want to know, and so the
idea you aim at is often quite obscured to
them. But with the other subjects the
idea is nearly always apparent, and meets
a quick response."

But the best work has rarely met anything
but slow appreciation," ventured
Montgomery.

Truly ; but why not paint for your contemporaries
? It's just as philanthropic,
and a good deal more remunerative, than
working for a generation unborn that
can never give you any sort of return."


Ruy smiled as he shook his head incredulously.


Will you give up your idea of saintship,
and paint this face as a popular
theme ?" asked the dealer.



We will talk of something else,"
said Ruy, quite content with silence

till his picture should speak its own
defence.

Did ever any man, knowing lie had work
to do the impulse to which was inexorable
and absolute, did ever such accomplish,
nay even fairly commence that work,
without being warned that some other
duty was much better suited to the times
and to his powers, and that this, which
revealed itself imperatively to him was
a mere illusion, and would never reach
the acme of the ignorant  success?
Cruellest of fate is that in which the
toiler never can discern the possibility
of any divine accomplishment, and it
is ever wiser to let the failure, foreseen

of him who strives not, come in
the pursuit wherein the urgent bent
decrees.

CHAPTER XIV.

LADY Hilaire ASSUMES THE ROLE OP ART

CRITIC.

Do you not know I am a woman ? When I
think, I must speak. Sweet, say on."

Shakespeare.

A BITTER east wind was blowing on the
evening of the concert, and a sudden
chill made In2fha shiver as she went from
the hall to her carriage ; that night
she could not sleep, and next day, tired,
but still somewhat excited, she asked

Marie to accompany her on a long drive.

The wind was still strong from the
east, and, when Ingha returned home, she
complained of hoarseness and unusual
fatigue. The following day she became
ill, and the doctor pronounced her suffering
from a slight attack of inflammation
of the lungs ; the danger was soon over,
and, when convalescent, she was advised
to go to the south of France, or to try
her native air, and singing was strictly
forbidden.

Hardly had the physician left the house
ere Ingha, dreading that her illness might
have hurt her voice, opened the pianoforte
of her boudoir, and, for the first time since
the concert, played a few bars and essayed

to sing, but the sound that came was unfamiliar
and strange ; she tried again, but
her will had no effect upon her vocal
organ ; weak and almost despairing, she
sank down on a coach and covered her
face, and Marie found her weeping bitterly.


What is it, darling ?" asked Marie,
kneeling beside her. u You seemed so
much better when I left you a few
minutes ago."

I am better, Marie, quite well again,
but my voice has gone, and the doctor
knew it, and that was his reason for forbidding
me even to attempt to sing,"
moaned the poor girl.

But it will come back, sweetheart,

VOL. 111. P

when you are strong ; it is merely the
effect of your illness, and you are sure to
be able to sing again soon," said Marie,
cheerfully.

"No, I cannot believe that, for on the
concert night, when I had sung better
than ever in my life, I felt, oh ! so utterly
desolate, as if I were losing what I
prized more than anything that I possessed."


But, Ingha dear, it was not your
voice, I feel sure ; it was only the effect of
the excitement which you suppressed so
well before the crowd."

I could have borne any other loss'
went on Ingha, mournfully ; " so long as I
had my art, I had pity to spare for care

and pain, but now the most ignorant
soprano in London is more to be envied
than I with all my acquirements ; she has
hope and I have none."

Ingha would not be comforted, and the
consequent depression retarded her recovery,
so that several weeks passed ere she
was able to go beyond her boudoir.
Kerinvean and the Marchesa had been
obliged to leave town with their delicate
son, while Marie and Coyla gladly took
the responsibility of the care of Ingha till
the doctor should consider her able to join
her mother abroad. But two months
passed and still she stayed in London.
June arrived, and news came that the rest
of the household was to return soon from

p 2

France, and arrangements were being
made for the whole party to go to Scotland.
Marie and Ingha had heard of the
departure of nearly all their friends from
town, though Lady Kinaire remained. Sir

Dallas Gore had left with his regiment for
Zululand some time before.

Ingha's health was variable ; the dejection
that had settled on her spirit had short
intervals of feverish zeal in which she
pursued every plan suggested for regaining
strength in the hope of her vocal power
returning. Her physician assured her that
time would effect the desired change;
but she had been unaccustomed to life
without her art, and everything else now
seemed impotent to gratify her ; the practice

of it too was lacking, and it had
ever yielded her unfailing delight, and
had held an even balance in the mind
that was now crushed on all sides with
disappointment. Her art had been her
shield against all ills till now; loss and
grief could assail her only through it. So
long as she could labour in it she had
followed her ideal faithfully, had never
swerved in her love and patient service,
for the inward voice which had omitted
Saint Cecilia also had whispered to Ingha :
Be silent and wait !" The days passed
in vacant hopelessness, complete recovery
seemed as far off as in the first
hour when she discovered her voice was
gone, and, with the loss of her occupation

and delight, a growing impression
settled upon her that the love and homage
of her heart were dreams w r which she alone
had cherished, and which now could never
be fulfilled.

Lady Kinaire came often to see her
two favourites, and much she grieved to
note the fragile look daily increasing on
Ingha's face, and was greatly perplexed
to find a remedy.

One morning Ingha sent suddenly for
her lawyer, and was engaged with him
when Lady Kinaire arrived, and Marie
informed her how their friend was
occupied.

u I think," she added, " she is not
quite so well to-day ; she seems excited

and flushed, and is far more eager about
business than ever I saw her before."

What business is pressing just now ?"
asked Lady Kinaire.

"I do not know; she told me last
week her affairs were going on splendidly,
that her investments for the orphans
of artists and those for her
proposed school of music were doing
better than any other, and that she
thought she would soon be able to carry
out a project she was developing, to result
in a fund to enable poor art-students to
travel; but I conclude that it is quite a
fresh idea that has made her so anxious
to-day."

How Quixotic she is !" said Lady

Kinaire ; " but her plans, though romantic,
are all so generous and practicable.
When do you think she will go to
Kerinvean ?"

u Immediately after the return of the
others, if she be able ; but she appears
as averse as ever to leave town."

Lady Kinaire made no answer, and
presently a message was brought asking
Marie and her friend to go to Ingha's
boudoir, where they found the invalid
lying on a couch evidently quite exhausted,
but with a strange, excited
expression in the eyes which regarded
them questioningly.

What have you two been saying about
me? Don't be doleful. I am tired, but

it is the stupid business that has made
me so. After tomorrow, I shall have
peace. Where have you been this morning,
Lady Kinaire ? You look as bright
and fresh as a dewdrop."

I haven't been among the flowers
to-day," answered Lady Kinaire, somewhat
hesitatingly, " and yet I saw some
painted white roses almost as lovely as
your extravagant clusters. How many
hundreds do you use in a week, Ingha ?"

"I never count my benefits, only my
cares and worries," said Ingha, smiling.
"But where have you been, dear?
I am sure you have had a nice
experience. You look so radiant and
glad."

Really you are growing quite a flatterer,
Ingha. I have only been to Mr.
Montgomery's rooms. Kinaire becomes
more and more pleased with Harold's
portrait, and he wanted me to ask your
brother, Marie, if he would paint mine.
His servant, unfortunately, showed me
into the room where he was working at
a picture evidently not meant to be seeD,
but, having seen it, I have come here to
scold you, Ingha."

Ingha was listening hungrily to every
word, but she showed a quiet face as
she asked, in a repressed voice :

"For what are you going to scold
me?"

"For not telling me you were giving

Mr. Montgonierie sittings," said Lady Kin-aire.
" I never saw anything more lovely
than your portrait ; so appropriately called
The vision of Saint Cecilia.' Perhaps
the life-like expression is more true than
the accuracy of the features, though it
is a very rare expression even with you.
Have you seen the picture yet ?"

"No," answered Ingha, and slowly and
quietly added the words, " I have not seen
it yet."

The face is full of pathetic ecstacy.
I think, my dear," and Lady Kinaire
took Ingha's hand while speaking, " that
picture will widen the fame of your
beauty, while increasing the renown of
the artist; but I really don't know what

be will say, if you tell him I have given
you a private criticism."

I do not think we shall tell him," returned
Ingha, with a slight tinge of bitterness
in her tones.

Now, my dears, I must go," said
Lady Kinaire, rising. " I had only five
minutes to give you, and I have stayed
half an hour, but I will come again
soon."

She had hardly glanced at Ingha,
though she would fain have observed
narrowly the effect of her recital. There
was little difference apparent in Ingha's
expression, and Lady Kinaire hurried
away, somewhat nervous as to the result
of her errand, but she trusted that love

would overcome at last, and that the two
who she had ever averred were predestined
to bless each other would, ere too
late, complete her cherished romance.

The day following was a rarely beautiful
one, clear, warm, and bright ; during
the morning Ingha was again occupied
with her lawyer, and, after his departure.
Mistress Gilroy went about looking wistful
and anxious. "When the doctor came
she told him the invalid was not so well,
but he merely enjoined quiet, and, if possible,
a drive to dissipate the symptoms of
which Coyla had spoken.

Towards afternoon Ingha said to Marie
timidly :

You heard what the doctor said about

ray going out ? Will you drive my
ponies to-day ? I want to make an expedition."


Of course, dear, I will drive you
anywhere. What time will be best?"
answered Marie, eagerly, pleased that 
should herself have proposed going
out.

"Now remember, Marie, when I direct
you this afternoon, you have given me a
voluntary promise, because I am determined
upon this visit, and 1 would prefer
going with you."

"Where? You may tell me now. I
won't go back on my word, dear," asked
Marie, mystified about the project.

I am going to your brother's studio,

Marie. I want to see this vision of Saint
Cecilia. I have been waiting all my life
to see it, and," Ingha added, wearily,
I am glad it is completed in tiuie."

"But consider, Ingha, Kerinvean and
the Marchesa will "

"Yes, I know they will," interrupted
Ingha, " unutterable things, Marie ! but
you don't mind, do you, sweetheart ? And,
though I have conjured up the very worst,
I find it hasn't the least weight with my
determination."

Marie's strong sympathy was awakened,
and she remonstrated no more.

Ingrha's eves were bright and her face
flushed, as she leaned back in her phaeton
and spoke to Marie.

Now, darling," she said, " I have planned
everything. I want you to go first to
him, and tell him 1 will follow soon, and
if he refuse to receive me,"  here her
voice trembled  "ask him to let me spend
an hour with his picture ; but, listen, I
want to be alone with it, a whole short
hour, Marie !"

And to Marie recurred the words,
And I, I want you for a whole long
Eternity !" and the scene where they were
uttered in some indefinable way mingled
with the emotion of the present hour, and
she answered, quickly :

My darling, I will do anything you
wish ; you are so dear to me."

tl Marie, if you make love to me, I

shall break down, and," she added, in a
gayer tone, " this afternoon I mean to bea
Spartan !"

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XV.

A SPARTAN.

11 Then she held forth her lily-white hand

Towards that knight so free ;

He gave to it one gentile kiss,

His heart was brought from hale to bliflfi

The tears Bterte from his ee."

Chaucer.

npHE ponies were soon drawn up at
Ruy's door. Finding that her brother
was at home, Marie descended, and
with trembling fishers Inp*ha took the

reins and drove off, intending to return
shortly, as arranged.

Marie went straight to Ruy's atelier,
where she announced herself, but he came
to her quickly before she could advance
to the easel on which his work was
placed.

How are you, Ruy ?" said Marie.
"Ingha drove rue here."

"Did she?" answered her brother, a
flush mantling his face and brow. "Is
your friend better ? You look pale yourself,
Marie ; you are not ill, dear ?"

Oh ! I am quite well, Ruy ; but I
think Ingha seems worse, and she has
taken an odd notion about coming here to
see your picture."

Q2

"Here! which picture? I don't understand
you, Marie."

His sister told him the burden of Lady
Kinaire's conversation the day before, and
timidly ended by saying :

You will receive Ingha, won't you,
Buy ?"

"Certainly," said her brother, a wild
joy thrilling his spirit ; " when will she
come t

To-day, in a few minutes ; but, before
she arrives, will you permit me to
look at your Saint Cecilia ?"

Ruy went round to the front of his
easel, and, beckoning Marie to follow, he
said, gravely :

I fear you may be as dissatisfied

with it as I myself sometimes feel."
Marie was deeply moved by the marvellous
beauty of the likeness, but she
could not gaze as long as she wished, for
soon she heard the ponies stop again at
the door, and, as Euy left her to go and
meet Ingha, she hurried to another room,
where she gladly waited an anxious but
hopeful hour. \

Ingha was slowly ascending the steps
as Ruy went forward. She held out her
hand, but words for the moment were
difficult to both.

Will you come at once to my atelier ?"
asked Ruy, not tempted to make any
vacant conventional compliments about
the honour of the visit.

And she only answered a low " Yes ' as
be led the way.

On entering the studio, Chum bounded
forward and sniffed at Ingha's dress, and
she, bending down, said :

Do you know me, Chum ?"

Chum did not answer save by a greeting
of, the like of which he had never accorded
to anyone but to Sir Dallas Gore
at Pniel. He licked her hands and
breathed hard with excitement, and, when
lngha sat down, he tried to keep her
attention by many manifestations of
dumb, demonstrative delight ; he nestled
his head in the folds of her gown, and
looked up into her face with an unspeakable
affection that conveyed his unutterable

gladness. Then he went to Euy's side in
an apologetic manner, as if he too ought
to be made a partaker in the rejoicing,
and Chum wagged his handsome tail ashe
walked between Ingha and his master
with an air as one who would say, " I
told you so ; I knew we should find her
again !

After Ingha had been in the room a
few seconds, although she tried to repress
her cough, the exertion she had undergone
brought it back. Ruy perceived
how frail she was, and that the few weeks
of illness had greatly changed her appearance.
Her pallor was modified by a slight
flush on her cheeks, but her eyes were
unnaturally eager and bright. She was

dressed in white, and she held a perfect
rose in her hand.

I am so sorry," she said, " to entertain
you with this, but I am unfortunate in not
being able to prevent it."

I did not think you were so ill," said
Montgomery, gently, forcing back the
impulse that prompted more passionate
pity, for he saw the effect of the excitement
and slight fatigue she had encountered
were almost too much for her strength.

I am not ill, not very ill," she answered,
somewhat bitterly ; Cf anyone may
have a cough, that is nothing."

But yours is painful," Ruy said, meeting
her timid glance by a grave and tender
expression of countenance.

Surely, after five years of separation,
we have other things to speak of than the
symptoms of an illness. I hope you forgive
me for coming here unbidden. I
think you know  if you have not forgotten
 that it has been the wish of my life
to see a faithful picture of Saint Cecilia,
and yours is sure to be beautiful."

"I have not forgotten one word of all
the few you ever uttered to me," said
Montgomery, somewhat sternly ; " the happiest
moments of my life have been ever
impossible to forget. You laid your commands
upon me years ago by expressing
your wish to have this subject painted,
and I have never lost sight of the hope of
obeying you. Ill done or well done, God

knows it is my best. The picture is
here."

He drew the easel round so that she
could see it without leaving her seat, and
while she looked upon it he turned away.
Strong emotion was making Montgomery's
pulses throb. Ingha's beauty, fragile,
eloquently and exquisitely radiant,
though changed, was thrilling his soul
with unwonted and lono>desired delight.


Ingha gazed on in silence ; she at once
apprehended the likeness, but, as the spirit
of the work was gradually revealed, she
more and more disassociated it with herself,
till at length only Saint Cecilia's
rapture and sorrow pervaded her thoughts.

Tears seemed ready to fall, for, weak and
impressionable as she was, she could not
altogether suppress them, and a sigh that
was more like a stifled sob escaped her.
Ruy, alert and strangely expectant, heard
the sigh, and, turning to her, came to her
side and said :

Ingha, why do you weep?"

I do not know. Forgive me," she
answered. "It is worth all the years
of waiting to see this work of yours,
but your poetic imaginings have transfigured
my face into that which it could
never become. I am changed indeed, for
my art has gone from me. I shall never
sing again, but"  she smiled through
her tears  " I will try to grow glad

through sorrowing, like sainted Cecilia."
Oh, my Star, my Star," said Ruy, ina
low tone, coming closer to her side,
do not so coldly gleam upon me. Ingha,
you know, you must know that all my
heart, my life, my work are yours ; that
all the labour of the years of the past,
of the years to come, I count smallest
service, if but one word of approval from
you be won. I have no other desire, no
lesser hope. Do not condemn what I
have already done, lest my hand trembles
as I essay that which may prove more
worthy of your praise."

Ingha's face had become very pale while
Montgomery was speaking, the fervent
feeling in his tones, aud the intense earnestness

of his words impressed her with
a vague knowledge that this was a great
crisis in both their lives, and she could
with difficulty repress the eager impulses
that made her heart throb and her brain
heavy with emotion. The white rose she
had brought, intending to leave as a token
of her visit, was crushed, and its leaves
had fallen. Ah ! she thought, if he only
knew all the sorrow and trouble she had
borne for his sake ; but, though she had
her story to relate, she was still resolute
in endeavouring, however feebly, to be a
Spartan.

"I must tell you some of my own experiences,"
she said, with a winning softness.
" Yesterday I found I was as likely

to die as to live. A short time ao
I was very ill, and I think my late despondency
has aggravated the weakness.
I determined to arrange my affairs before
I told anyone how frail I felt, lest
some hard instructions should be enjoined
by the doctors. Then I was perplexed
to find an excuse for seeing you, till Lady
Kinaire came and described your picture
just at the moment I was longing for some
pretext, and, after all, the picture was a
true reason for coming, though, much as
I wanted to see it, I wanted more to come
and say good-bye to you."

Ruy was standing quite close to her
now, leaning against the wall, his arms
folded across his breast, the Montgomery

courage fisrhtino; as best it could with a

Q O O

sudden dread, but Ingha's sweet face, tenderly
appealing, with an unspeakable yearning
for a look or a word to help her,
overcame Ruy, and he put his hand to
his brow, as if to consider his answer, butin
reality to hide his emotion.

Standing beside her there was such a
visible contrast between them, he so stalwart
and strong, she so fair and delicate,
but Ruy felt conscious of a love that was
mighty enough to engender strength, and
he thought the power of such love could
overcome every hindrance to the joy for
which they had both so patiently endured.


He was kneeling beside her now, and

looking into her face with eyes that told of
undying love and longing.

My Love ! my Love ! you shall not bid
me farewell if I can win you. Oh, Ingha,
think how I have waited all silently, with a
devotion that for years has asked nothing
till to-day. You could not leave me now
you know that without you I should be
powerless for evermore. Do you not remember
it was the ' visible protection of my
Saint Cecilia ' that I once told you alone
would satisfy me ?" and Ruy tried to smile,
though imploring so earnestly.

Rodriguez'' Ingha said, softly, H how
little you know of the times I have
wondered if all your love were given to
your art while I was faithful alone to you.

Have you not felt that I have ever loved
you?

More than one dream of Ruy's life was
finding fulfilment to-day, for his memory
had long been haunted by the questions
Ingha had just asked.

"Ah, my sweet Saint, I realise the truth
at last, but you must prove now that you
love me more than you love Death."

Mio Caro, perhaps Death may love me
more than Love."

Ingha ! Ingha! my own, my own, say
again that you love me, that Death maybe
scared by the sacred might of your

vow."

11 1 do love you, Roderigue," answered
Ingha, slowly.

vol. in. R

Wad she tak her fond vow back ?

I trow, no, no !"

She smiled as she rose, and he lifted her
hand and pressed it to his lips. Her face
flushed as she looked down on her little
gloved hands.

11 They have both been kissed now," she
said, and, holding up her right hand, added,
"it is this one that has ever been triumphant
since the night in the gallery at Kerin-

yean."

A wild and anxious yearning possessed
Kuy to enfold her, to bear her away where
the tenderness of his devotion alone should
lure her back to health and rapture, but
ever gentle, ever heedful of her pure
feelings, he repressed the passionate words

that were in his thoughts, for he perceived
that the excitement of the interview was
telling upon her strength.

Ingha, my Star, you will let me come to
you soon, and meanwhile we will dream of
our love and of the life we shall live erelong
?"

Yes," she answered, with downcast eyelids,
" but, Roderigue," and here she hesitated
a moment, and then laid her hand
gently on his arm, and looked wistfully into
his face, " perhaps I shall only bring you
Valerian's fate ; he would never have
known martyrdom save for Cecilia, and it
would be martyrdom for us to be parted
again."

And but for her," Ruy answered,

r 2

gravely, " he would never have known any
higher possibility of life than that which
Pagan worship inspired, nor any victorious
death save for Cecilia, nor would he have
foreseen a divine immortality but through
his martyrdom. He rejoiced in his fate as
I rejoice in mine ; since all of God Valerian
knew was revealed to him bv his love, so
I willingly abide by all that your love may
bring to my lot, whether life or death, loss
or gain. I cherish the same hopes that were
Valerian's, and, as Cecilia's love was his
earthly crown, so your love has crowned me
to-day."

He stooped and kissed her brow, and an
awe, as if an unseen presence were between
them, made them for some moments silent.

Then India took Ruv's hand and raised it
to her lips, and with a gleam of memory
lighting up her features, that had become
unspeakably mournful, she said :

I do not think I should have come had
it not been ' Morituvi te Salutantf I was
not prepared to have my life transfigured,
and my heart filled with hope ; but will
you send me away now, for I am very
tired ?"

You may go, my Love, but I cannot
send you," Ruy answered, smiling still
sadly.

"And have you been a Spartan, dear?"
asked Marie, as she drove the ponies
home.

No, darling, I failed in that, because
my Roman offered to accept even martyrdom
for my sake, and I found I did not
need to be other than myself." And
Ingha's hand sought Marie's, and Ruy's
sister said, in a voice full of loving emotion
:

"May God bless you both, and bring
your desires to pass !"

CHAPTER XVI.

WINGS AND WAVES.

"A winged sound of joy, and love, and wonder,
Which soars where Expectation never flew,
Rending the veil of space and time asunder !
One ocean feeds the clouds, and streams, and dew ;
One sun illumines heaven ; one spirit vast
With life and love makes chaos ever new."

Shelley.

Wings to find an immortality."

Keats.

I

S it from childhood those memories come,
or from the histories we have tried to

recall ; the memories, borne on a gentle
tide, of endless songs in which mingled the
whisperings of joyous needs who sported
in buoyant glee on its far-off waves ? And
the halcyon birds brooded on the waters,
and yearning eyes sought not in vain for
visions of promise, even for " the wings of
a dove covered with silver, and her feathers
with yellow sold."

The remorseless billows of human impotence
dash in anger against the impregnable
shores of doom, and neither victory
nor triumph is heard in their passionate
fury. Memory ever wanders gladly back
to a lonely sea where the last conscious
kiss of the dying God of day crimsoned
the wave, or the moaning surge waited

in sullen doom for the first streak of
dawn.

Ah me ! that he who rehearses the lives
and loves of his fellows should ever have
grief for the unfailing burden of his romance
and song.

The Zulu war wages fiercely, heroes on
both sides fall thick and fast like leaves in
an autumn wind, and many of their bravest
deeds will never be chronicled save bv
the recording angels.

Daring, courageous, and reckless, Sir
Dallas Gore fights and endures, the most
hopeless defence only exhilarating his
spirit, the longest marches never causing
him to utter a complaint.

Notwithstanding that assegais are flung

all round him, and men whose wives and
children at home are praying for their
safety are killed in sickening numbers by
aim that is unerring, he bears a charmed
life, and ever leads where danger threatens
thickest and death is likeliest to
follow.

And Marie at Invean hears of his valour
with glowing pride in her dead lover's
friend. And she wonders sadly if he too
shall find a crave on those fateful fields of
Africa.

But soon he will return, and honours
he has never desired, though he
has earned them well, will then be
showered upon him. Will he win
the guerdon lacking which to him all

other meed will prove paltry and vain ?

The waves of Destiny roll on, and the
wings of Fate are still fluttering. It rests
alone with her whose fair blossoms of
hope were early chilled by the withering
winds of fickle Time, and the hopeless
blight of a graceless Chance.

Methinks I hear still the echoes of
needs singing in a halcyon hour on a
sunny sea.

Roderigue Montgomery well knew that
his inspiration would now never fail, nor
his power grow less, and, when the art-patron
who had begged him to forego the
subject of saintship in his great picture
offered him an unwonted price for the
work, he sold it. Already he felt

impelled to nobler design and to more
immortal purpose. The tide of time
had raised its angry surf, but the pitiless
foam of the billows of doubt and self-mistrust
had never hidden nor dimmed
the pure shining of his star, and he knew
that his beacon had at last halted over the
glorious port," the haven of his dreams,
where even now he could descry the
temple where they two should serve, the
sanctuary of love and art whose windows
all fronted the rising sun.

Fitfully the wings of Chance have flitted
across the horizon of our story ; ofttimes
ominous and dark have been their passage,
and the shrieks that the watchers hear d
were dull and dismal prophecies of woo ;

but anon the same weary sentinels have
seen the white, majestic pinions of

Angels in strong level flight '

winging their homeward way over the
mountains of despondency and the far-reaching
valleys of toil, leaving a shining
track in their wake that led to a sea of
infinite rest.

Fleet were the steps of the lover ashe
hurried to the home of Ingha. Did
he fear that the star his eves now beheld
would elude his vision after all ? Did
he dread that the dark waves of Destiny
might even yet rise up between
them ?

"Roderiijue," she said, " the longest

life for which we dare pray will be
all too brief for our love and work."

Ingha, why should your thoughts
dwell on the shortness of time ? The
eternity of love knows no end. Life
or death for either can be only a
condition where our love shall increase."


Ah, Roderigue," she answered, " when
the golden thread that bound us together
was broken, when my art seemed no
longer a possible link to your life, I did
not care how soon death came, but at
length the old longing for love revived,
and when I thought I should die I hastened
to put my house in order. I had
ever been bent on my fortune repairing

your wrong, and so I arranged that my
death should put you in possession of that
which would aid you to fulfil wherein I
had failed, for I knew you would devote
everything to the service that we both
loved. But since you have turned again
to that sweet page of our lives that
has been closed so long, I dread to
leave you. You will not let me die
now, Roderigue ?"

For a few moments Montgomery did not
speak, he was trying to think of all the
possibilities of the future, but the bliss of
Ingha's presence made riot of dread and
despondency, and exorcised the phantoms
that fear had invoked.

"My Love ! my Love !" he said, with

passionate earnestness, looking down on
her fair face, which was radiant with eager
hope, "will you come to me now, come
to me to inspire my work, and to bless
my efforts with your beauty and love?
Will you consent to this brief wooing,
knowing that all my life will be one glorious
dream of devotion to you, my bride?
Time is brief for art, Ingha, and they who
elect to tread the aisles of its temple together
must not loiter where the crowd
waits, nor linger to ask its approval of their
resolve."

The appeal was sudden and stern, but
his soul was full of longing to possess her
ere Death might forestall him ; he felt so
sure that love could vanquish Death, for

scant is the remembrance of the shadow
of the dark wings of the Invincible when
eyes that have vainly gazed in vacant skies
are at last dazzled by the glistening, snowy
pinions of the dove of promise. Ruy
eagerly watched Ingha as she, standing by
his side, covered her face with her trembling
hands.

The sonojs of the needs come from a
far distance still, the sky tells of a calm,
the waves are all at rest, and the wings
that have hovered and fluttered are folded
in peace.

Anon the hands of Ingha fell by her
side, and she looked upward with rapturous
emotion and met Ruy's gaze as she murmured
:

VOL. III. s

I will go, my Love, wherever it seemeth
best to you."

Time speeds on, and Chance is forgotten.
No earthly influence will ever disturb the
rare serenity which fills the lives of Ruy
and Ingha, for their art is inspired by a
love that is deathless, which now

Can no longer borrow
Its hues from chance and change, dark children of
tomorrow."

