CHAPTEE I.

A VERY SELECT HUNT.

The real name of the Hunt was the Morley
Instead.

But in sporting circles it was always
called " The Mutual Adoration." In fact,
so generally was this latter appellation
employed that most people were apt to
forget it possessed any other.

As the " Mutual Adoration " they were
known far and wide, but although there
was not a finer country in Great Britain
than that which they had the good fortune
to hunt, the pack was not popular with
strangers. Year after year the same faces
VOL. I. 1

might be seen at covert side ; very few new
ones ever appeared amongst them.

Each young men with large studs, plenty
of money and a desire to get rid of it, such
as are invariably welcome in most country
places ; officers spending their long leave ;
fathers of families, hampered by the care
of so many young ones, but as keen about
hunting as ever, did not choose Morley
Anstead as their head-quarters.

This was the more remarkable, because
the town itself offered many advantages.
It was clean, healthy, well situated on the
top of a breezy hill, and moreover abundantly
stocked with good inns and excellent
stabling. But alas ! both inns and stables
stood empty.

And yet people who had been to Morley
Anstead once, never complained-of it as a
bad place from which to enjoy the chase.
On the contrary, they praised it highly ;
but what they did complain of very loudly

and very bitterly, were the manners of the
Mutual Adoration " Hunt. As strangers
they went amongst that fastidious crew
and as strangers they came away, feeling
that if they hunted from Morbey Anstead
all their days, such they would remain.
For after ridings behind these exclusives
the whole season, you were but too apt to
find your existence overlooked just as much
at the end of it as at the beginning.

Now there is no denying the fact that
folks don't Uke this sort of thing ; and
various were the remarks made ; often not
altogether of a laudatory description. It
may be vanity, but it is also human nature
to desire some recognition from your fellow-creatures.


Upon my soul, we might just as well
be so much dirt," quoth one incensed
sportsman.

Dirt ! say pitch," answered his companion.
" For they do condescend to make

1 *

the acquaintance of Mother Earth now and

again."

Ha, lia ! very good, very good," said a
third. " The worst of it is, though, after a
bit a fellow be<]fins to wonder what the
deuce is the matter with him, when he irons
out hunting and not a soul will say a word,
or recognize his presence. He fancies
that the fault must lie with himself,
and that ain't bv any means a pleasant
feeling."

True," put in a fourth. " But when
you haye seen a little more of the M. A.'s,
then sou turn round and enquire what the
devil is the matter with them ? "

They are so confounded exclusive ! "
sighed the son of a grocer, who had taken
to liuntinix, thinking he would <]:et elevated
into County society.

My dear fellow," said the first speaker,
contemptuously, " the whole thing lies in a
nutshell, and I for one say that the Mutual

Adorationites are more to be pitied than
blamed. They have only one idea in their
heads, and that's hunting. They can think
of nothing else, talk of nothing else. Their
brains get brutalized, and their manners
suffer in consequence. My own belief is
that this rudeness and reticence proceeds
from a very simple cause. They are not
wise enough to know any better ; " and soon,
and on ad mjinitum for the malcontents
were very numerous.

This remark happened to get round to
the ears of those for whom it was not
intended. Such remarks always do. They
travel with marvellous rapidity, and
generally land in the precise quarter where
they are calculated to do the largest
amount of mischief.

The indignation of the Mutual 
was quite comical.

Not know any better indeed ! They
flattered themselves they knew a very great

deal better than to take up with every
Tom, Dick and Harry who put on a redcoat
and chose to appear outside a horse.

They liked to know who people were,
where they came from, how far their
ancestors could be traced, and in what
sort of society they moved, before jumping
down their throats, and even then there
was no hurry. It was always better to
take plenty of time to consider about these
thin<2s, for fear of making' a mistake. It
would never answer for them  the Mutual
Adorationites  to incorporate a person
into their select body, and then fid that
that person would not do ! There had
been such a case on record, and every
M. A. to a man was agreed it must never
happen again. And to do them justice,
this was their hast and last error of
familiarity. Under the circumstances, it
will not perhaps be difficult to understand
how it came about that the Hunt was a

small one. It was still further reduced by
being divided and split up into sections.

First came the "riff-raff"  the kind of
folks whom the M. A.'s saw year after
year, and ignored entirely. They might
be very good fellows in their way, but, to
use their own expressive language, " they
did not tumble to them."

Fortunately for these gentlemen  who
constituted the larger portion of the field 
they were able to form a society of their
own, which enabled them to survive the
frigidity of their fellow Nimrod.

Then came the " Half-and-halfers " 
people whom the Mutual Adorationites,
for various reasons, did not wholly condemn,
even while they they could not
altogether accept.

These were tolerated, passively and in a
luke-warm fashion, which proved more
ffallinc to some than direct avoidance.

On the recurrence of each hunting

season, and after an absence probably of
several months, they would find themselves
greeted by a careless nod and a muttered
How do." Or if the M. A. happened to
be in an unusually amiable and loquacious
mood, he might even go the length of
saying, " Fine day. Looks like a scenting
morning."

But this was quite an oratorical effort,
and generally meant, " There ! I've done
the civil to you, because you are a covert
owner, but for goodness sake don't expect
me to go talking to you any more to-day."

As a matter of fact, no real M. A. would
ever unbend so far as to be seen carrying
on a conversation with a " Ilalf-and-
halter." They kept their conversations
and their ideas for themselves. They were
too precious, or perhaps too scarce to be
showered upon the world of " outsiders."
Anyhow, they were not scattered like
pearls before swine.

The hand-fide Mutual Adorationites did
not number more than a dozen.

When they went a-hunting they formed
a coterie apart.

They rode together, talked or rather
kept silence together, and jogged home
together.

All the rest of the field were made to
feel themselves without the pale.

But the M. A.'s, for all their exclusiveness,
were not jovial. There was none of
that friendly, harmless, good-natured
chatter going on amongst them which is
one of the characteristic features of most
covert sides, and often is carried to too
great an excess.

Occasionally one of their number would
jerk out an observation, and his companion
would grunt out a reply. But there was
no mirth, or jollity ; no fun and geniality.

They were stately, and solemn, and dull
to a degree. As for a joke  but there I

they never condescended to anything half
so vulgar or so abominably plebeian. A
joke would have been considered bad form.

The mere fact of riding about in each
other's company seemed to afford a kind of
sedate pleasure. Any interchange of
thought was quit superfluous.

Unfortunately, their very exclusiveness
rendered them few in numbers.

Death and absence had thinned their
ranks to such an extent that at the period
when our story commences, there were not
more than a dozen legitimate Mutual
Adorationites left. Still, they sufficed to
maintain the character of the Hunt, and
effectually drove away any rash stranger,
who, tempted by the beauty of the country,
and the convenience of Morbey Anstead asa
sporting centre, took it into his head to
come out with the hounds.

First and foremost ranked the master,
Lord Littelbrane.

He was a small, fair, colourless, insig-
nificant-looking man, about forty-five
years of age, with a drab complexion
and hair to match. He wore an eyeglass,
which stood him in good stead,
since the number of persons he contrived
not to see at one of his meets was truly
remarkable. He also was distinguished
by a stony stare very disconcerting to its
object. His eyes always seemed to look
just a little above his neighbour's head,
making that individual feel there must be
something wrong or queer about his hat.

Another famous M. A. was old General
Prosieboy, or The Squasher, as he was
lovingly called by his intimates. He was
a most useful personage, and had derived
his sobriquet from the fact that he could
annihilate an objectionable stranger better
than any other single M. A. in existence.
His method was very simple. He discharged
a volley of oaths at the offender,

and as these were by no means choice,
generally forcible, and nearly always unprovoked,
nine times out of ten the
audacious enemy who had dared to address
an M. A. without waiting to be first
spoken to by him, retired in dismay, and
never repeated the hazardous experiment.

Once, and once only, it was said that
The Squasher met his match. The gentleman
was fresh from California, and displayed
a fluency, a facility and an originality of
language, which fairly discomfited his
opponent, whose vocabulary was limited
in comparison.

Taking him all in all. Captain Straighten
might fairly be reckoned the flower of the
Mutual Adorationites. He was the best
dressed, the coolest, the most silent, and
least gregarious of the party. He had
never been known to laugh, and seldom
seen to smile. His brethren were loud in
his praise. Of the whole dozen good fellows

who formed their ranks, he (always excepting
themselves) was voted the best. As a
specimen of the right sort, he shone preeminent.


He kept himself aloof, and never by any
chance fraternized with the vulgar herd.
As the owner of a large estate in the county,
he was a man of considerable position,
and looked up to accordingly, both by
those who had, and by those who had not,
the honour of his acquaintance.

And even his enemies respected him for
the brilliant way in which he rode to
hounds. They admitted that he had some
excuse for his extremely good opinion of
himself, but the other M. A.'s they declared
had none.

Still there was no doubt that the Mutual
Adorationites were on remarkably friendly
terms with No One. It must have been
the case, since nearly everybody else was
dubbed " a creature, a brute, or an outsider."

Nobody Yas good enough for
them  at least, nobody under a baron.
Yet the singular part of the whole business
was this. If any one had told them that
their Hunt was not popular, and that they
were the sole cause of its unpopularity,
they would have received the statement
with a burst of incredulous indignation.
The truth was, they had not the faculty of
seeing things from any point of view but
their own. Hence the limitedness of their
vision.

NECK OR NOTHING.

It would have cleeii difficult to conceive of
a more melancholy day for the opening
meet of the season than was Tuesday, the
first of November, 188-.

When Captain Straighten's servant called
his master about half-past eight o'clock,
that gentleman turned in bed like a lazy
porpoise rolling on the top of the water,
yawned and murmured in a voice muffled
by blankets : " What sort of a day is it,
Dickinson ? "

''A tremendously thick fog, sir," came
the prompt reply, uttered in tones of unsympathetic
cheerfulness. " You can't see
twenty beards ahead of you."

The devil ! " exclaimed Captain
Straiglitem, wakening into sudden life,
and springing out of bed, so as to
ascertain for himself the exact state of
the weather.

But to his disgust, on looking out of the
window, he perceived at a glance that for
once Dickinson had not exaierated
matters.

A dense fog lay over all the land,
enshrouding both hills and valle's in its
weird and ghostly embrace. It rested like
a soft, grey sheet upon the fields, toning
down to a sombre tint the bright careen
f];Tass. As for the laurel retires crowing:

c GOD

on either side of the drive, tliev were
impregnated with moisture, and great wet
drops rested on their glossy leaves.

Everything was dark, everything was
dull, everything was damp.

He looked up at the sky, but could
detect no break or Mean of light.

The prospects of the chase did not appear
promising. Captain Straighten! stifled an
oath as he applied the razor to his clean-shaven
face.

Confounded bad luck ! Still it may
clear by-and-bye," he muttered, half-an-hour
later on, when he sat down to his
solitary breakfast in the big oak diningroom.
And at any rate it won't do not to
go to the meet."

But as the fog showed no signs of giving,
he drew an armchair to the fire, toasted his
toes, and read the newspaper, waiting and
hoping that the weather would improve.
It was late before he started, and even then,
instead of galloping to covert as was his
wont, he allowed his smart little hog-maned
hack to proceed at a comparatively leisurely
pace.

Consequently by the time he reached the
place of meeting, the majority of the field
had already assembled ; but although it
VOL. I. 2

was now long past the advertised hour,
Lord Littelbrane had not attempted to
rake a move.

As a matter of fact, it would not have
been easy to hunt, since objects at a distance
of only a few yards were almost undistinguishable.
To ride to hounds if they
ran fast  which tlie} so frequently do on
these mild damp days, when the heavy
state of the atmosphere seems to prevent
ascent from rising and dispersing  would
tax the powers of the keenest and most
daring" fox-hunter in existence.

"Deuced bore this d  d foT," growled
his lordship, as soon as Captain Straighten
joined the small and select circle which
invariably gathered round him at the meet,
as if to protect his noble person from any
possible onslaught of the vulgar herd.
"Deuced bore."

"Deuced," echoed Captain Straighten,
laconically but sympathetically.

(( ''

Ton my soul, I hardly know what todo.
Whether to take the hounds home or
not. All these ' Armies,' " looking round
contemptuously, " will feel terribly aggrieved
if we don't show them some sort
of sport on the first day of the season."

"Never mind them," put in General
Prosieboy. ' It's ourselves we've got to
think of. Ourselves first, our horses second,
our hounds third."

What do you say to it, Straighten ? "
asked Lord Littelbrane. For, as before
explained, Captain Straighten was a feature
of the Hunts and his opinion went
for a great deal.

Well, if I were you, I should wait a
bit longer before giving up. Folks don't
like to be disappointed on these kind of
occasions, and it's just on the cards that
the weather may clear."

And sure enough it did, though at no
time in a satisfactory manner.

Eut at twelve o'clock the sun struffled
SO gallantly with the fog, that for a few
minutes he actually forced it to disperse
before his pale radiance.

Loud were the congratulations, and
universal the satisfaction, when Lord
Littelbrane, without losing a moment,
gave orders for the proceedings of the day
to commence, and hounds were at once
trotted off at a brisk pace, to draw a
covert close by.

Half-an-hour elapsed, and sadness and
despondency once more fell upon the spirits
of the field ; for the improvement in the
weather proved only temporary, and the
heavy mist seemed to roll down worse than
ever. Phoebus turned white and sickly
like an ailing child, then sullenly hid his
face.

If this o'oes on we shall have to 2:ive
it up, whether we like it or not," said Lord
Littelbrane gloomily.

The words were scarcely out of his
mouth before a loud '' gave forrard
aw-a-ay " proclaimed that Eeynard had
left the snug undergrowth of the covert.
There was evidently a hot scent in the
open, for the hounds dashed out after
him, close at his brush, and almost directly
were lost to vision, engulphed, as it were,
by the enveloping fog.

They threw their tongues merrily, and
could be heard, though not seen.

And now began a curious chase ; for
every man had to ride by ear instead of
by eye, and he who was deaf stood but a
sorry chance.

Foxes are famed for their subtilty ; and
this one, as if on purpose to baffle his
pursuers, chose about as rough and awkward
a route as he could have selected in
the whole country.

Fences loomed dark and formidable,
their dimensions increased instead of

diminished by the imperfect light. It was
simply impossible to tell what they were
like, until you were close upon them.

Horses smiled the damp air through
their open nostrils, and discharged it
with disgust. They looked round suspiciously
at this grey and unrecognisable
world, were nervous and timid, and distrusted
the commonest object. A log of
wood, a cow, a stone, filled them with
apprehension. And all this time, borne on
the vaporous atmosphere, rang out the
eager, murderous notes of hounds celebrated
for their slaying qualities.

They were positively racing ahead.

But alack ! alack ! How to keep up
with them ? The task seemed well nio-h
impossible, and each man realized to his
bitter cost that there are some days in
every season when hunting is attended
with more pain than pleasure. Days when
hounds, fences, elements defy you simultaneously.

Five minutes sufficed to place
the field in disorder. Their ranks opened
and spread in every direction  and dire
was the confusion that resulted.

Only Burnett (the huntsman), Captain
Straighten, and a couple of hard-riding
farmers succeeded in getting well away.
Their nerve and promptitude served them
in good stead ; but they had to ride as
they had never ridden in their lives before.
It was a case of neck or nothing.

Friendly gates could not be taken
advantage of, as usual ; for to-day the
Pack would have vanished from view in
the time that they took to open. The
only chance of keeping with hounds
was to keep close to their heels and negotiate
every possible and impossible fence
that came in the way. Providence must
provide for the rest.

Crash, crash go the timbers of a
stilT double over, as the gallant quartette

fly it, each man charging a different
place.

One of the farmers is down  no, his
horse recovers himself. He staGfiers for a
pace or two, then gallops on as before,
fearful of losing his companions.

Suddenly is heard a shrill whistle.

It is the first intimation given to the
pursuers that they are close to a railway.

By God ! " exclaims Burnett, in agitated
tones ; " the hounds will be cut to
pieces." For he knows b} the sound that
they are just ahead.

He calls them by name ; first in commanding,
then in entreating, finally in
frantic lanuace. Never has his horn
driven forth such loud and urgent blasts.

But their blood is up, and they heed him
not.

In another second an express train
dashes into their midst, and two of the
best bitches in the whole Pack will never

go a-hunting again, or stretch their fleet
limbs over the broad pastures. Burnett is
in despair.

He wrings his hands like a woman, and
as he dismounts hastily andbends over the
mangled carcases of his dead darlings 
those hounds that were his pride and his
delight  the tears gather in his eyes, whilst
his honest, weather-beaten face twitches
with sorrow.

Darn this fog," he exclaims resentfully.
It ain't fit to hunt in."

But the companions of poor Milkmaid
and Merrylass evidently hold a different
opinion. With deadly zest and joyous
music they fling forward after their fox,
every murderous instinct awakened and
desiring gratification.

A solitary horseman is with them now,
and follows their bold career. Burnett has
stayed with his hounds, the fog has
swallowed up the two farmers, who, until

this point, Lave maintained their own right

well.

On the face of him who smiles so

rarely a solemn smile has settled. To

have bested the field is the one delight

of his life. He can conceive of no hither

>

pleasure.

Swish ! And he tears through a great,
black bullfinch, and is almost drasfed from

CO

his saddle. Slap! And the bough of an
overhanging tree catches him one on the
mouth.

His countenance brightens still more,

O 7

though the blood is spurting from his lip.
His pulses quicken and his eye dilates, for
the dangers and the difficulties of this

o

particular chase lend it a special charm.
When he thinks it all over in his armchair
after a good dinner, he will feel excusably
triumphant and elated in proportion to the
obstacles overcome.

But what is this black thins looming:

through the fog? Oh, for a ray of
sunshine !

It might be a fence, it might be a
house, it might be anything, for all he
can tell.

The pulsations of his heart grow loud.
He can hear them beatings against his ribs.
But the hounds have already disappeared
behind the mysterious barrier, and where
they go he is determined to follow.
Whatever this man's faults may be, he is
brave and knows no fear.

Besides, he has beneath him one of the
most perfect and resolute hunters that ever
looked through a bridle. A hunter who
has carried him four seasons, and hardly
put a foot wrong.

Captain Straighten leans forward in the
saddle, pats his good horse's neck and
speaks an encouraging word to him.
Then he steadies him a trifle, and just
when he is about to take off gives him his

head. The animal knows his business, and
is as courageous as a lion.

He springs from his hind legs, and
oh ! ! !

Ten minutes afterwards, when Burnett,
Lord Littelbrane, and some half-dozen
others, riding in search of the hounds,
came to the fence in question they prudently
avoided it ; and went through a
bridle-gate which they had the good fortune
to espy, congratulating themselves on
not being forced to jump such a regular
man-trap.

And yet the nerves of most of them were
inclined to be more shaken than if they
had made the attempt. For an unexpected
sight met their vision.

Hard by, lying there on the ground all
by himself, some ten or twelve yards
distant from the fence, was Captain
Straighten!.

His horse had galloped away, and could

nowhere be seen, though a track of red
blood seemed to tell that he must have
been badly hurt in his fall.

For the thin dark line of treacherous
metal, which has been responsible for so
many accidents in the hunting-field, was
bent and twisted, and in parts tufts of fine
chestnut-coloured hair adhered to the rusty
wire.

Captain Straighten lay there quite still.
He never moved or spoke when his
companions crowded around him.

His face was turned upwards to the
sodden sky, one hand was clenched, and
held between its stiffened fingers a bunch
of grass torn from its roots, and in his wide
open eyes there rested a dull and vacant
look, which somehow struck terror in the
hearts of the bystanders.

It filled them with a nameless dread, a
horrible suspicion, which, staring blankly
into each other's sobered faces, they had,

in the first startlingness of the shock, not
courage to mention.

And the soft foi curled itself around the
dark twice of the hedie, and as a memento
of its passage left hanging from each
pointed thorn a trembling drop. Even in
that short space of time it had silvered the
fallen man's hair and covered with a
white, humid covering his red coat, his
snowy breeches, his top-boots, and all the
brave insignia of the chase, with which
only that morning he had sallied forth, full
of life and spirits.

  -



THE MUTUAL ADORATIOXITES SUSTAIN AN
IRREPARABLE LOSS.

Lord Littelbrane was the first to speak.

I fear this is a bad business," he said
huskily. " Does anyone know if there is
a doctor out hunting to-day ? "

Yes, I do, my lord," answered Burnett,
touching his cap. " I saw Mr. Smith of
Cottlebury at the meet, riding that there
rat-tailed grey cob of his."

Go and fetch him then this minute."

Yes, my lord."

"And hark you, Burnett, don't spare
your horse. For once in sour life don't
mind if you bring him back lame or not ;

only for God's sake find this Mr. Smith ;
and get him to come here immediately."

It was not often that his lordship spoke at
such length or with so much energy and
decision. Burnett at once realized the
gravity of the situation, and galloped off
at full speed in the direction from which he
had recently arrived.

When he had gone, Lord Littelbrane
knelt down on the damp grass by the side
of his prostrate friend, and putting out his
hand, placed it under Captain Straighten's
red coat, and over his heart. ' I can't
feel it beat," he said tremulously, looking
up with troubled eyes, at those who stood
near. "It is horribly still, and there's a
look about his face which I don't half like.
Straighten!, old boy," giving him a slight
shake, " pull yourself together."

But no answer was forthcoming. Still
the same unnatural quietude prevailed.

And now the truth, in all its solemnity

ad horror, began to force itself upon Lord
Littelbrane's comprehension. Fiercely and
feverishly he endeavoured to thrust it from
him, but the thought grew and grew, and
turned his blood to ice. He had seen too
many bad accidents in the hunting field
not to know what this portended. Only last
year a young rough rider of his own had
been killed whilst following the hounds.

There was the same expression on the
lad's face as on Captain Straighten's. He
recalled it with a shudder. His nerves had
been shaken then, but now he felt as if
they would give way altogether. He
seemed stunned and dazed by the magnitude
of the disaster.

For this man, lying here so pale and
still, was his friend. He had not so many
that he could afford to lose his best one
the only one really after his heart.
Captain Straighten was endeared to him
through many ties of association, such as

VOL. I. 3

when youths grow up, bind them closely
together. They had been born in the
same county, and in the same year. As
boys they had gone to the same school
and displayed an equal amount of stupidity.
As men, horses and hounds proved
an unfailing bond of union between them.
They knew each other's peculiarities, and
their ideas of the position and importance
of a Mutual Adorationite were identical.

And besides all this, Lord Littelbrane
was not only proud of Captain Straighten,
but he entertained a species of veneration
cr him. There was not another man in
all the Hunt who could ride like the
gallant captain. If any serious misfortune
had now happened to him, who could he 
Lord Littelbrane  depend upon in future
to uphold the honour of their sacred body,
and show these rouiih-and-tumble fellows
the real scientific way to cross a country?

And if  if things were as he feared, who

would jog home with him at his own
peculiar pace, after a hard day's hunting,
not taxing his conversational powers by an
irritating flow of small talk, but only at
long' intervals diviner vent to some choice
and almost monosyllabic remark. Then,
too, who would support him through
thick and thin, in the various difficulties
raised by covert-owners, farmers, poultry-losers,
subscribers, &c.

A lump came into Lord Littelbrane's
throat, which threatened to impede his
respiration. He turned his head hastily
away, so that none present should perceive
the moisture which suddenly dimmed his
eyes.

Meanwhile a couple of sheep hurdles
had been torn up from a turnip field close
by, and on these they laid Captain
Straighten's body, after first raising it
reverently from the ground.

Then the mournful little procession

9-*
O

marched slowly and sadly through the
wet fields, until at length a road was
reached. Near this road stood a tidy
cottage, and in its parlour they deposited
their burden on the sofa.

Lord Littelbrane would not leave his
friend, even for a moment. He kept his
eyes rivetted on Captain Straighten's face,
in the hope of seeing some sign of life
return to it. But one of the party kept
watch outside the door, and paced restlessly
up and down the road, waiting and
lomrinsf for Doctor Smith's arrival. *

So the minutes passed anxiously away.
They seemed interminable, and the gloom
of the atmosphere coincided with the gloom
of their spirits.

For although they tried by every restorative
they could think of, to bring
colour to the fallen man's cheek, warmth
to his flesh, and light to his eye, all their
attempts proved vain.

At last the sound of hoofs was heard,
and in another second, Burnett emerged
like a giant from the fog, followed by
Doctor Smith on his grey cob. Both
horses were panting, and gave evidence
of the speed at which they had travelled.

The doctor dismounted, and after a few
words of explanation from Lord Littelbrane,
who came out to greet him, flung the reins
to Burnett, and disappeared within the
cottage. Arrived there, one look was
enough to convince him that here were
no bones to set, no cuts to strap, or
wounds to dress.

Captain Straighten was past the aid of
man. Not all the skill and science in
the world could avail him now. He had
gone where such things were unable to
penetrate.

Doctor Smith shook his head, and his
countenance assumed an unusually grave
expression.

Well ! " asked Lord Littelbrane in an
awestruck voice, for he knew what was

coming.

"Is there  is there any chance of his
getting over it ? "

Not in this world," said the doctor
seriously. " Captain Straight em is dead,
and has been so for some time."

Dead ! " exclaimed the other with
sharp anguish. " Oh ! no, not dead, surely
not dead. I will telegraph to London for
the best advice. Somebody must pull him
through,"

Neither I, nor anybody else, can do
him any good, poor fellow ! I only
wish that we could."

At this terrible confirmation of his worst
fears, Lord Littelbrane sank down on his
knees by Captain Straighten's side, and
buried his face in his hands.

Absolute silence prevailed throughout
the room. None felt inclined to break it.

Only every now and again could be heard
a suppressed sob, which escaped from his
lordship almost involuntarily.

In spite of his vapidity, his reserve, and
curious conceit he had a heart. During
many years he had striven to conceal its
existence, but now it burst through that
veneer of impenetrability, on which, as a
Mutual Adorationite, he had long prided
himself.

Something seemed to give way within
him, and he bowed his head and wept like
a child.

The effort to maintain a dignified stoicism
was beyond his strength.

And those who had never liked him 
who had called him a fool, a prig, an
aristocrat  thought better of him at this
moment than they had ever done. The
resentment of years vanished. The sights
and insults of seasons were forgotten. For
the first time almost in their lives, they

felt that he was human : a creature like
themselves, who loved, and mourned, and
suffered. " lie ain't such a bad chap after
all I '* they murmured to one another.
It's his way and very likely he don't
mean anything by it. We have been foolish
enough to take offence where probably
none was intended."

Meantime Dr. Smith was making a
minute examination in order to ascertain
the exact cause of death. As a hunting
man himself, he felt an unusual interest in
the case. He soon discovered what had
happened.

"Poor chap," he said, in his rough but
sympathetic way. (At any other time Lord
Littelbrane would have winced at hearing
his best friend called a " poor chap," but
he was too thoroughly upset and startled
out of his usual groove to take any notice
now.) ''He has broken his neck. It is
quite clear to my mind, that when he fell

he landed on the point of his chin, which
caused the entire head to be violently-jerked
backwards, from which dislocation
of the cervical vertebrae ensued." Then
he looked commiserating at Lord Littel-brave,
and added :

Don't take on so, my lord. This is a
dreadful business, but it should at least be
some consolation to you to know that death
was instantaneous, and that your friend
was spared all pain."

But Lord Littelbrane shook his sleek,
fair head, and refused to be comforted.

The shock was so great and so entirely
unexpected, that for once in his life it made
him forget himself and his dignity. Later
on it would be a cause of shame, when he
reflected that he had allowed these " outsiders
" to see that he possessed feelings
and emotions, and was not the iceberg he
strove to appear.

But the " outsiders " respected his grief

and, as before stated, thought none the
worse of him in consequence.

While all this was izoini? on, a considerable
crowd had collected round the
cottage.

Ill news travels apace, as the saying tells
us, and stragglers bei]fan to pour in from
all sides.

"What, dead? Straiizhtemdead? You
don't mean it ! "

"Yes, I do though. Terrible tliino.
Been dead an hour. Had a bad fall and
broke his neck."

Dear me ! How dreadful ! How did
it happen ? "

The old story. Wire. Farmer deserves
to be strung up."

The above were a specimen of the
remarks that went the round. Everybody
looked shocked and saddened. For even
those who had not known Captain
Straighten! personally, knew him by

sight, and were sobered by the intelligence
of the disaster that had befallen him.

Men fear death ; and none so much as
the strong and healthy, whose minds refuse
to dwell on the possibility of annihilation,
and whose physical vitality laughs it to
scorn. But this sudden cutting off of one
of their number brought home, in a
forcible way, the dangers of hunting.

What had happened to Captain
Straighten might have happened equally
to themselves. They  not he  might have
been lying dead inside the homely cottage.

Time mere idea was enouli to shake their
nerves, and to send a cold shudder down
their spines. Sadly and quietly they
gradually dispersed, whilst Burnett collected
his hounds  only twenty-one couple now,
instead of twenty-two  and moved slowly
off in the direction of the kennels. Isis
orders were, that they should not come out
again for a fortnight. There was to

be no Hinting in the Morbey Anstead
country during that time.

If Lord Littelbrane could do nothing else,
he was determined to pay respect to the
dead man's memory.

And so ended the first da}- of the season.
It had both begun and finished badly, and
the Mutual Adorationites had received a
blow which quite prostrated them. For
their king was no more, and they knew of
none to fill his place. Where was the man
who could combine such brilliant horsemanship
with such hauteur, such exclusiveness
and reserve ?

-rrjpr-

LORD LITTELBRANE FEELS LONELY.

A WEEK after the sad event recorded in
the last chapter, Lord Littelbrane and
General Prosieboy sat down to a tete-astute
dinner at the house of the former.

His lordship was a bachelor, and not
much given to running after the fair sex.

As a matter of fact, few of the Mutual
Adorationites were married men. Mutual
adoration did not seem to work well in the
bosom of one's family. Not many wives
admired and looked up to their husbands
as they ought. They had a nasty knack
of bringing their lords and masters* weak
points to light. So said the M. A.'s.
Anyhow they did not approve of matrimony

as an institution. It broke up their ranks,
and introduced an altogether new and unwelcome
element. Once a man married he
was never quite the same. He was no
longer allowed to follow his own judgment,
and his visiting list soon showed a
sad deterioration.

For this and many other reasons, it
resulted that if one of the genuine Mutual
Adorationites was rash enough to turn
Benedict he was generally treated with a
considerable amount of frigidity for a very
long time afterwards.

It took several years before the offence
was forgiven, and even if the bride were
altogether charming she never found herself
wholly accepted. The M. A.'s, to one
man, felt that they owed her a grudge, for
weakening dear Adolphus's or dear Sidney's
allegiance to their sacred bod3\ But as
regards Lord Littelbrane, he could not help
entertaining an uneasy conviction that

some day or other lie was bound to get
married. An heir to the title was imperative.
He had told himself this for the
last ten or twelve years, during which he
made sundry virtuous resolutions, and
repeatedly determined to sacrifice his
bachelor independence ; but so far these
food resolves had come to nothing.

He would be forty-six next birthday,
and Littelbrane Castle was still without a
mistress. Match-making mammas, possessing
ambitious daughters, had angled for
him in vain, and now, in despair, they had
given him up as a bad job, and reluctantly
turned their attention elsewhere. Both the
late Captain Straighten and his lordship
seemed equally proof against feminine
blandishments, and it was rumoured in the
county that they would never take a wife
to weaken, if not destroy their intimacy,
and prevent them from being constantly
together.

But since his friend's sudden death, Lord
Littelbrane's whole mental condition had
undergone a complete alteration. Circumstances
had brought about a curious
chare in his ideas. When he looked
round at his great big barrack of a house,
with its endless rooms, swarms of servants,
and absence of unreal comfort, it struck
him all at once that he was very lonely,
that many a labouring man, with a stout
red-cheeked wife and half a dozen babies,
was happier far than he. lie began to
wonder what it should feel like to be the
father of a family, to set his little children
on his knee, and play with their golden
curls. A strange yearning came over him
for sympathy and companionship  a sympathy
and companionship even closer than
that which he had just lost.

And thus wondering and speculating,
his thoughts reverted to a certain Lady
De Fochsey, who was both vounij and

pretty, and the widow of a deceased
baronet. She was a very smart, natty little
lady, who in her scarlet jacket and white
waistcoat, did credit to his Hunt. The
Mutual Adorationites all knew her, and on
account of her good looks, received her as
one of themselves. True he had never
paid her any attention, but that might
easily be rectified, and he fancied she
would accept his advances graciously.

Still, it was a desperate plunge, this
which he contemplated taking  so desperate
that nothing but the loss of his
friend could have made him entertain the
idea in earnest.

His first notion was to invite Lady De
Fochsey to come and take a quiet little
dinner with him, explaining that he felt
very melancholy and required cheerful
society. He was convinced she was
cheerful. Her laugh rang out so merrily
at the covert side that it had once or twice
VOL. I. 4

actually aroused his curiosity as to the
cause of her mirth. Women ought to be
cheerful. lie liked them so, as long as
they were not " loud." He hoped she was
not " loud," and wished he knew her well
enough to make quite sure.

But when he came to consider the
slightness of his acquaintanceship with
Lad" De Fochsey, he arrived at the conclusion
that it was out of the question for
him to ask her to dinner in this sudden and
informal manner. So, as his solitude was
rapidly becoming unbearable, he invited old
General Prosieboy instead, v.dio although
he did not much appreciate the Castle
cuisine, liked being able to say : " Oh, ah !
my dear fellow ! If you've nothing better
to do to-night, come and take pot-luck
with me. Damme though, I forgot, I'm
dining with Lord Littelbrane. See you
some other time I hope." But he always
took good care to leave that " other time "

indefinite, and never alluded to it when
next lie met the " dear fellow." The dining
room at Littelbrane Castle was very arose
and also very cold. No matter how big
the fire, it only warmed one portion of the
apartment. The old windows rattled, the
old doors creaked, and the wind seemed to
blow in at all sorts of possible and impossible
places.

Found and round the dinner-table stalked
a pompous, grey-haired butler and a couple
of solemnly-stupid footmen. These worthies
took special care to prevent their master
and his guest from indulging too freely in
the pleasures of the table.

The soup might have been a liquid
medicine, to be taken cautiously  one to
two table-spoons in a little water. The fish
was served out in such lilliputian quantities,
that it was only an aggravation to a
hungry, healthy man. The entree consisted
of a tiny oyster patty apiece, with

one single oyster in its midst  that is for
the eaters. There were plenty of patties on
the dish, but they were smuggled away
with a sleight-offhand that would have
reflected credit upon Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke. This was the more provoking
as General Prosieboy was fond of oysters.

Mutton ? Yes ! there was mutton
certainly, but what was the good of that
when 3'ou were helped to a slice that
might have been carved from the breast
of a lark.

And yet, night after night. Lord Littel-brave
sat down to this mockery of a meal
because he considered it to be " the thing ! '*
Ife would rather go without a morsel and
be waited upon by three pompous menservants,
than he would dispense with their
services, and help himself as he liked, and
ho IV he liked.

So much for fashion.

But General Prosieboy was not exactly a

fashionable man, and moreover lie possessed
a remarkably good appetite.

At home he invariably insisted on his
parlour-maid putting each separate dish
on the table. Then he did cet something
to eat. But really ! at Littelbrane Castle,
in spite of all the fine furniture, old armour,
and retinue of servants, when he got up
from the table he felt very nearly if not
quite as hungry as when he sat down
to it.

However, he was on his company
manners, and stood too much in awe of
Lord Littelbrane's exalted rank  his father
had made all his money in Prosieboy's
anti bilious pills  to air his sentiments
aloud. Had he done so they would probably
have been translated by oaths. On
the present occasion, with a mighty effort
of self-control, he succeeded in maintaining
a decorous silence, mentally determining to
have up that excellent piece of cold beef

lie had had for luncheon, directly he
reached home.

He fumed inwardly all the time the three
great, silent sentinels were in the room,
but when they removed their restraining
presence, carrying everything eatable away
with them that they could, the atmosphere
seemed suddenly to have grown less oppressive.
Then the two gentlemen drew up
their chairs close to the lire-side, and
placed the port and claret on the mantelpiece
where it was easily get-table.

After consuming? four or five classes,
the strings of their tongues gradually
became unloosened. The Littelbrane wine
was good, and General Prosieboy revenged
himself upon it, for not having dined.

Ahem ! " he said communicative, and
with the air of a man who considers he is
imparting a wonderful piece of intelligence.
I forgot to tell you before, but I've seen
him'*

His lordship at that moment was thinking
quite sentimentally  thanks to the
Chateau Lafitte  of Lady De Fochsey's
rosy, smiling face, her trim figure and
sparkling blue eyes.

Eh ! what ! Seen him ? Seen who ? "
he asked with rather a guilty start.

Why, the new man. The man who
comes in for all poor old Straighten's
property. The nephew, in short''

Have you, by Jove ! And what's he
like ? Can we have anything to do with
him ? " And as he made the inquiry. Lord
Littelbrane's countenance assumed an expression
which seemed to say that he, for
one, was convinced the Mutual Adoration-its
could not be hand in glove with a total
stranger, hailing from the colonies.

"Impossible," said General Prosieboy
emphatically.

His lordship gave a sigh of relief.

"Why?" he asked, subsiding into his

usual languid state, which forcibly suggested
a torpid liver.

Because, as far as lean judge, lie's the
wrong sort altogether."

'' Ah ! I expected so, and should have
been very much astonished had he proved
anything else."

It seems he has lived all his life in
Australia, and has never been to England
before. In fact, one could almost tell as
much from looking at him. Colonist is
stamped upon him from the crown of his
hat to the sole of his boots."

Poor devil ! ' exclaimed Lord Littel-brave
commiserating.

Did Captain Straighten never mention
this bushman of a relative ? " asked the
General, with an elderly man's curiosity.
I don't seem to have heard of him."

"Oh! yes, lots of times. But never
without a shudder. Poor Harry was so
refined," sighing heavily. "He told me,

only the morning of his death, that the
fellow had arrived unexpectedly and proposed
running down to Straighten Court
to pay him a visit. 'Awful bore,' said
Harry, ' and the worst of it is, I don't
know how the deuce to put him off. He's
got a sort of right to come, since, unless I
marry and have children, he's the next heir
to the property.' "

He has acquired a most unfortunate
right to it now," said General Prosieboy
lugubriously.

Yes, worse luck. Times are indeed
sadly changed. I wonder though if I
ought to be civil to the man on Harry's
account ? " And Lord Littelbrane looked
uneasily at his companion.

I really don't see any necessity for it.
It does your Lordship's heart immense
credit even to have suggested such a thing ;
but, I assure you, you can't possibly
associate with this aborigine. If you had

only seen the creature as I saw him to-day,
at the railway station, dressed in a brown
velveteen suit, with a flaring red tie. and a
pair of checked trousers that reminded one
of a chess-board, you would have recognised,
in spite of your natural kindness, that it is
quite out of the question for a man in
your position and of your rank to notice
so very peculiar a person. Why, damme !
he wears clothes that are enoui:h in
themselves to make anybody who has
the remotest notion of what is customary
in civilized society cut him on the
spot."

And there is such a lot in clothes,"
murmured his lordship. " I think it was
Kingsley who said, you can transform any
gentleman into a blackguard  at least as
far as outward appearances go  by simply
taking away his white collar and substituting
a coloured scarf in its stead. By-the-bye,
what is the duffer's name ? It's not

Straiglitem, I know, thank God for
that ? "

No, it's Jarrett  Eobert P. Jarrett  I
saw it painted on his portmanteau."

I wonder if Mr. Eobert P. Jarrett
means to favour us with his presence out
hunting."

I expect he is sure to," returned the
GeneraL " These Australians mostly take
kindly to sport."

Confound the fellow ! We shall have
him jumping on my hounds, and making
that an excuse to scrape acquaintance with
me. Eeally Prosiebo} if he turns out
objectionable, as I fully expect from your
description of him, you must come to the

rescue."

With all my heart, my Lord," replied
his companion, dilating his nostrils, and
sniffing the air like an old war-horse who
smells powder and is eager to begin
the fray. " You leave Mr. Eobert P.

Jarrett to me. Ill soon settle Lin, never
fear."

That's all right. Remember ProsieLoy,
I count upon you should any emergency

arise."

And with these words, Lord Littelbrane
dismissed the subject.

A long silence succeeded, during which
host and guest lit a couple of cigars and
smoked away steadily. The occupation
evidently strained every faculty ; for conversation
languished, both feelings that after
their recent outburst of eloquence they
needed time to recruit their forces.

General Prosieboy was the first to make
a remark. It was scarcely as original as
might have been expected from the long
period of incubation required to give it
birth.

Feels cold to-night," he said. " I
think we shall have a frost."

Oh ! Ah ! very likely. Time of year

we may expect them," answered his lordship.


Another silence of five minutes followed
this brilliant sally.

Then the General attain crave vent to an
oracular utterance :

Shouldn't wonder if we had snow before
loniT."

No, nor I."

Whereupon they both puffed away at
their cigars harder than ever.

Their ideas appeared totally exhausted.
Even the weather failed to furnish a further
supply.

But by-and-bye a large lump of coal fell
down on the grate with a clatter. Lord
Littelbrane seized the tongs, and stooped
to pick it up. This broke the spell.

Awful bore when coals tumble about'*
he said.

Awful," replied General Prosieboy.

Puff, puff, puff. Apparently neither of

them could think of anything more to say.
The General could only talk when he was
drunk or in a race. Take away his oaths
and his liquor and he was nowhere. As
for Lord Littelbrane he never could understand
why when people dine together they
should be supposed to keep up a perpetual
chatter. What was the pleasure of it in
comparison with the fatigue ?

Eleven o'clock strikes, and General
Prosiebov rises from his seat, and throws
away the end of his cigar.

Think I must be going home," he says.

"Must you?" rejoins Lord Littelbrane
passively. lie never presses his guests
to stay after half-past ten. Li the hunting
season he invariably keeps early
hours.

Yes, think so. Good night, my lord.
Hope you will cheer up before long."

General Prosieboy's hand is on the
handle of the door as he speaks. In

another moment lie would have vanished
into the corridor.

Isis lordship plucked up all his courage,
and made a desperate effort.

By the way," he said, whilst a flush
rose to his sallow face, " what's your
opinion of that little Lady De Fochsey ?
She's the right sort, ain't she ? "

The question took General Prosieboy
completely by surprise, but he was far too
diplomatic a gentleman to express the
astonishment that he felt.

Oh, yes ! " he answered in an off-hand
way, seeing he was evidently desired to
express approval. " Quite the right sort ;
a very nice little woman indeed. I know
nothing whatever against her, except that
she's rather too thick with some of the
outsiders."

Ah ! she's young. Shell soon learn to
distinguish, especially with the advantage
of a little judicious guidance. But I'm

keeping you standing ; good night, Proxies
good night."

And so saying, Lord Littelbrane shook
hands with his guest, and saw him out at
the hall door. But this last remark of his
host's had given the General much food for
reflection.

No sooner was he fairly seated within the
sheltering walls of his one-horse fly, than
he drew a long breath of dismay.

Thunder and lishtninfr ! " he exclaimed
dejectedly. " So that's the little game, is
it ? Why ! bless my heart alive, I do
believe he's thinking of getting married.
Was there ever such a set-out? There
won't be one of us left at this rate. First
a death, then a marriage ! Upon my soul,
I hardly know which is the worst of the
two. As for the Blunt, it's going to
the dogs altogether ; and if Lord Littel-brave
don't look out, he'll be having his
country over-run with strangers, and a

lot of confounded radicals who not
only believe in but act on the principle
of one man being as good as another.
Such rot indeed ! " he wound up indignantly.


His heart was so heavy within him at the
mere thought of Lord Littelbrane's contemplating
matrimony, that when he got
home he found the cold beef insufficient to
comfort the sinking of his inner man. He
was forced to take a very stiff tumbler of
brandy and water in addition.

"Just to quiet the system, Mary, my
dear ; just to quiet the system," he explained
to his pretty parlour-maid (he
never would have an ugly servant in his
house), chucking her familiarly under the
chin.

Exactly, sir ; I understands."

The fact of the matter is, Mary, I've
received a shock, and it has knocked me
all of a heap."

VOL. L 5

"Take another glass of brandy, sir.
It's uncommon soothing to the nerves."

"Yes, Mary, I will. I think your
suggestion is a wise one."

He found it so wise that it was close
upon one o'clock before he could at length
be induced to toddle off to his bed. Mary
had to help him to get there ; but once safely
between the sheets, thanks to the joint
effect of Lord Littelbrane's port and of his
own three-star Henessey, he slept the sleep
of the just.

lie had effectually soothed his nerves by
addling his wits.

-"

A Stranger IN THE Lax).

EoBERT Jarrett's mother and the late
Captain Straiglitem had been only brother
and sister.

As children, the boy and girl were
devoted to each other, but when they grew
up, fate, that capricious goddess, cast their
lots in very different places.

The young man went into the Guards,
looked brave and handsome in his uniform,
spent a considerable amount of money, idled
away his days, denied himself no luxury,
and, as times go, was a credit to his doting
father.

As for Fanny, well, poor Fanny made

what was considered a most terrible

5*

"mesalliance." She was destined to
marry into the aristocracy and she married
an agriculturist.

When this unfortunate event took place
she was very young ; only a month over
seventeen, and had but just returned from
a fashionable boarding school in Brighton,
where she had been finishing her education
previous to making her entry into society.

But, alas ! like a silly romantic child,
she fell desperately in love with a young
man, aged  twenty-one, who had been sent
down to StiHshire to learn farming ;
presumably because he had not brains
enough to learn anything else, or to pass
the necessary examinations for the army.
At any rate, he took to turnips and oil-cake.


He was a gentleman by birth, and that
was about all that could be said for him 
at least, so Squire Straighten! declared,
when his daughter came with tears in her

pretty, blue eyes, and begged him to give
his consent to her engagement with Mr.
Charles Jarrett.

The squire turned purple in the face,
almost had a fit of apoplexy, and refused
flatly. The idea ! Wh}, the girl must be
mad.

But Fanny was too much smitten by her
lover's pleasant manners, and professions
of affection, to listen to reason. She even
thought there was something; fine in making?
a sacrifice for the sake of him she loved.
Anyhow, she was young, ignorant and
headstrong.

Her grandmother had left her five thousand
pounds. Over this sum she possessed
absolute control. Master Charles' income
consisted of two hundred a year. He was
an orphan, and had neither expectations nor
interest ; but, to do him justice, he was
genuinely attached to Fanny. To make a
long story short, one fine day the imprudent

and impatient young couple got
married secretly, trusting that when they
were actually man and wife the squire
would relent and be induced to make them
some further provision than that derived
from their own very limited means.

But, like many others, they reckoned
without their host.

Old Squire Straighten flew into a
towering passion when he found that little,
innocent, blue eyed Fanny had defied him
by taking the law into her own hands.
Refusing to listen to her prayers for
forgiveness, he swore a mighty oath that
she should never set foot ia5>ide his house
again. And he was as food as his word.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Jarrett were therefore
obliged to fall back upon their own
resources. These, as wo know, were not
large. Fanny was inexperienced ; she had
been extravagantly brought up, and had
no notion of housekeeping.

For six montis they tried living in
England ; but they found that, do what
they would, they were running into debt.
No one could have had better intentions than
the poor little bride, but she had everything
to learn in her new life, and also a
good deal to unlearn. It came hardly to
her at first, and nobody need blame her if
she made a few blunders. Most of us
similarly situated would have done the
same.

But they were a brave young couple,
and when things seemed likely to go from
bad to worse, they made up their minds to
shake themselves free of the old shackles
and start afresh in Australia. This they
did ; and with Fanny's five thousand
pounds Charles Jarrett bought a sheep
farm and stocked it with sheep.

Sometimes they had good years, sometimes
they had bad ; but they managed to
keep their heads above water, and on the

whole prospered fairly well. At all events
Fanny never regretted the step she had
taken, even although it had completely
estranged her from her father and brother.

Charles Jarrett was far too easy-going
and indolent a man to grow rich. A large
family  of whom Eobert was the eldest 
and as the years went b} very indifferent
health, effectually prevented him from
making a fortune.

Thus, when he died at the comparatively
early age of forty-eight, he was unable todo
more than leave his wife and children
above want.

But Robert, or Bob as he was familiarly
called, had already shown himself to be a
far more active, energetic and stirring
individual than his father. He had not
inherited Charles Jarrett's constitutional
laziness of disposition, which had effectually
prevented him from getting on in
the world.

The farm was left to Eobert. The younTf
man soon discovered that to a great extent
it had been grievously mismanaged, and
that its powers of production had never
really been tested. His first care was to
put everything in thorough order.

Next he tried hard to improve the breed
of sheep and introduced several new strains
of blood. But he was not satisfied with
those that were available ; and after a
couple of years scraped enough money
together to provide for the family in his
absence, and to take him to England.

Naturally, he was eager to visit the
country where his mother had been
born and bred. lie was aware that,
as matters stood at present, Captain
Straighten's property would revert to
him. But he never counted on this
contingency.

It seemed altogether too remote, for
Captain Straighten was by no means an

old man, and might at any time take it
into his head to 2fet married.

Bob, in his own mind, was so convinced
that sooner or later his uncle would espouse
a better-half, that it very rarely occurred
to him to think of himself as only one step
removed from a magnificent estate and
close upon fifteen thousand a year.

No such thought actuated him when he
set foot upon English ground and deemed
it his duty to write and inform Captain
Straighten of his arrival, in case that
gentleman might express a wish to make
his (Bob's) acquaintance.

To this letter he had received no reply ;
in lieu thereof came a lawyer's communication,
formally worded, acquainting him of
the fact, that owinir to his uncle's sudden
decease in the hunting held, he was now
the possessor of Straighten Court, with all
its adjoining lands. Iob's amazement maybe
more easily conceived than described.

111 fact his astonishment was too great to
allow him to derive any immediate satisfies



tion from the extraordinary alteration that
had taken place in his prospects.

It did just flash through his mind that
henceforth, if he chose, he might apply his
energies to improving the breed of English
rather than of Australian sheep, but that
was all.

It never even struck him that his
presence might be necessary at Straighten
Court, until he received a second letter
from the family solicitor, requesting his
immediate attendance. Then by slow
degrees he beo'an to realize that he, who
was accustomed to rise with the sun, to
saddle and dress his own horse, to be
content with the coarse fare .and to put
his hand to every job that came in the
way, was now transformed into a fine
gentleman, who had nothing to do but take
his pleasure and amuse himself from

morning till night. This dawned upon Bob
as such a stupendous idea that it almost
took away his breath. It is not an easy
thing when all your thoughts have been
attuned to a particular groove, suddenly to
divert them into another and totally unfamiliar
one. It takes a little time before
the adaptation becomes complete.

Bob was a young man who possessed an
immense amount of vitality and of that
nervous force which delights in work and
in conquering it. He liked the active, even
if somewhat rough, life which lie had
hitherto led.

He enjoyed the responsibility of being
the head of the family and of feeling that
his brothers and sisters were dependent on
him. It sent a thrill of pleasurable pride
throu<]fh his frame to see their bright and
happy faces as they came clustering round
him after a hard day's work. Somehow or
other the simple homely way in which they

lived seemed to bind every member of the
family, from the eldest to the youngest, in
ties of close affection.

True they were not rich, each one had to
take his or her share in the daily toil, but
for all that they had been very, very
happy.

Would they be as happy if they lived ina
grand house, had any amount of money
to spend and lots of servants to wait upon
them, instead of waiting upon themselves
as they had hitherto been accustomed todo?


Bob hoped so ; but he was not quite
sure.

This sudden change in their lives seemed
to him a bit of an experiment ; it might or
it might not turn out well.

He was Australian born and bred, and
loved the sunny land of his birth ; he
possessed a sturdy independence and manly
blunt ness, which did very well for the

colonies, but he was sensitive enough to feel
that, in his new position, his manners would
probably require a considerable amount of
toning down. In Australia people did not
wrap their speech up in silver paper, they
said what tlie} meant and did not sneer at
conversation which owed its birth to home
interests, and often to home interests alone.

But Bob had not been four and twenty
hours in the old country before he realized
that a subtle difference existed between it
and the new ; the former was more polished
if not so fresh ; more fastidious and critical,
though infinitely less light-hearted.

Even as regarded his dress, he soon came
to have considerable misgivings.

His brown velveteen suit, red tie, and
checked trousers, no longer afforded him
quite the same satisfaction as on board ship.

Somehow they seemed out of place in
the London streets, where he noticed people
all dressed quietly and mostly in black or

dark colours. Once or twice his appearance
evidently excited surprise, and lie
felt extremely uncomfortable, not knowing
exactly what there was about it that was
wrong.

In fact, if General Prosiebov had but
known with how much inward trepidation
"The Duffer, The Brute, The Creature"
was about to enter into his kingdom, even
he might have felt mollified and not been
quite so hostilely inclined towards Captain
Straighten's unknown nephew and successor.


But the die was cast ; the fiat had gone
forth.

Eobert P. Jarrett was doomed beforehand.


The Mutual Adorationites had decided
that he should neither be known nor yet
visited.

Other people might take up with him if
they chose ; but they would not demean

themselves by having anything whatever
to do with an individual who wore the
wrong kind of clothes, and had no pretensions
of " the richt sort."

Mr. Jarrett should be made to feel in
everj possible way that his presence in the
county was undesired and superfluous ;
that he was unpardonably occupying a
house which, but for him, might have been
inhabited by a good fellow ; and that
under no circumstances could he ever be
accepted as fit company for the Mutual
Adorationites. If he insisted on coming
out hunting, of course they could not
actually prevent him. lie had a right to
gallop over the fields and tear after the
hounds if he chose.

But nobody need speak to him, except to
swear roundly at him if he got in the way,
or committed the smallest error of inexperience.


They could all stare at him blankly, and

refuse to recognize his presence as a fellow-creature.
They could feign deafness if he
hazarded a remark ; blindness if he came
across their path.

The could show him the cold shoulder
to his face, and abuse him to their heart's
content behind his back.

And this the Mutual Adorationites, according
to their usual manners and customs,
were determined to do.

He should be snubbed, and snubbed
effectively.

For had not General Prosieboy given
out that their poor old friend Straighten's
successor was a " duffer " and an " outsider,"
with whom they ought not to associate
? And would it not be showing disrespect
to the dead man's memory, if they
received with open arms a nephew of
whom, in his lifetime, he was evidently
ashamed ?

Yes. There was such a thing as esprit
VOL. I. 6

de corps. If the Mutual Adorationltes did
not wish to be swamped altogether by the
odious radical wave of the century, they
were bound to uphold their ancient habits
and customs.

Moreover, they were perfectly satisfied
with themselves as they were, and wanted
no innovations introduced amongst their
ranks.

ro 6

.mmntsu

OPPRESSED BY SO MUCII GRANDEUR.

Although our friend Bob lead heard and
read a good deal of the luxurious and, to a
great extent, indolent way in which English
gentlemen live when at all well ofT, he
had no really definite notions on the subject
until he arrived at Straighten Court. His
mother had often talked to her children of
the magnitude of her old home ; but then
seeing a thing with one's own eyes is very
different from having an impression made
upon your mind through the medium of
somebody else's optics.

The number and size of the rooms at
Straighten Court fairly amazed Bob.

What are they all for ? What are they

all for?" he kept on asking of the family
solicitor who showed him over the premises,
and had promised to remain for a
day or two.

"For use, I suppose," replied that worthy,
with a strong accent of reproof.

For use ! Do you mean to tell me that
one parlour is not enough for anybody ?
Why, on my farm in Australia, we never
dreamt of wanting a dining, drawing,
breakfast, billiard and reading room, as
3'ou seem to have here. And what's more,
it ain't comfort  leastways, to my mind,"
concluded Bob, decidedly.

His companion looked at him with a
smile half supercilious, half contemptuous.

You'll soon fit to alter some of your
opinions, Mr. Jarrett. It is quite evident
that you have lived very much out of the
world."

Damn his impudence," muttered Bob,
sotto voce, "He talks as if there were do

Other country but his own particular, little
sea-girt island. It's wonderful how ignorant
and how cheeky these Englishmen are.
There's no getting them to see themselves
in their true light."

But he kept his reflections to himself,
and turning sharply to his uncle's solicitor,
said :

And pray, wdiat about the servants ?
Am I supposed to keep all this troop of
idle people, eating me out of house and
home ? Because it strikes me that would
come uncommon rough on a fellow,
especially when, like myself, he is a
stranger at the game."

You will be able to arrange all these
matters to your own satisfaction when once
you have regularly entered into possession,"
said the other stiffly, beginning to think
what a terrible, sharp, fresh, outspoken
aborigine this was.

Come ! that's a mercy at any rate,"

said Bob, with a sigh of relief ; for the
mere contemplation of maintaining so large
a staff of domestics was oppressive, and
filled him with dismay. Yet, distrustful of
his own opinions on subjects of which
hitherto he had had no experience, he
added seriously : " Listen, Tomlinson. You
are a sensible man, and can give me a
straightforward answer to a straightforward
question. I only want to get at the reason
of things, and no doubt you can tell me
what is the use of all these idle folks ? It
seems to me there are too many of them by
half, and they only make work for one
another''

Mr. Tomlinson scratched his head, and
looked somewhat perplexed. The question
put thus, was not altogether easy to answer.

"It is customary Mr. Jarrett, in all large
houses, to keep up a good establishment 
that is to say, where there are sufficient

means."

Bob's face assumed a thoughtful expression.


I don't see," he said, " how one person,
living quite alone like my late uncle, could
possibly need so many people to minister
to his wants. It seems an anomaly for a
single man to employ such a number of
servants just to attend to his mere personal
requirements. Now, if / were an English
gentleman, I should hate to feel myself
dependent upon my cook, butler, or footman,
as the case might be. It's turning
a fellow into a regular slave, and a slave of
a very poor, contemptible order."

I suppose you learnt those ideas out in
Australia," said Mr. Tomlinson rather uncomfortably,
and on that account trying to
infuse an extra amount of satire into his
voice.

Perhaps I did, and perhaps I didn't,"
answered Bob, a bit nettled by the solicitor's
overbearing manner. " Anyhow,

whether I learnt them in Australia or elsewhere,
they are ideas of which I do not
feel at all ashamed, and on the contrary-should
despise myself if I did not entertain.
There is a padded person in this house,
with sham white hair, and sham round
calves, who comes to upon the door. Can
you tell me what that cumbrous mass of
human flesh, with its painful deficiency of
human brains, is good for?  since I am
convinced he has never done a stroke of
real, honest work in his life. I ask this
because the individual in question has
aroused my curiosity."

"I presume you mean Charles, the footman.
A very hue, well-made man, over
six feet in height, and an ornament to any
gentleman's establishment," returned Mr.
Tomlinson.

"Ha, ha!" laughed Bob. "Just as a
fatted ox is an ornament to the gentleman's
farm. I beiiin to see matters in a clearer

light. Show evidently comes before use
over here."

Charles answers the bells, waits at
table, and, as far as I know, has always
proved himself to be an honest and respectable
servant," said Tomlinson, testily.

My dear sir, honesty and respectability
are very excellent things in their way.
Nobody has a greater respect for them
than myself. But when you find these
admirable qualities united to intense slowness
of perception and pomposity of movement,
to crass stupidity and the sloth of an
overfed pig, then you can't help thinking
that they are not all-sufficient. Now, last
night I wanted a glass of whisky and
water. At home I could have gone to the
cupboard, fetched the whisky bottle, boiled
myself a drop of water in the kettle, and
got what I wished for without further
trouble and little or no delay. Here, there
are a butler and a footman, therefore I rang

the cell. They either did not, or would
not hear it. In about five minutes' time,
after pulling frantically at the bell-rope
till at last it gave way, my friend Charles
appears. I explain my requirements. He
disappears. I wait another ten minutes.
Presumably the water is being boiled.
Unluckily there is no longer any bell to
pull. I wait impatiently, and try to
smother the oaths that insist on rising
to my lips. Presently I hear a leviathan
tread  the tread of an elephant  sounding
down the passage. With the deliberation
with which all his movements are attended,
Charles brings into the room a hot water
jug. There is neither glass, whisky, nor
sugar. I. ask him where they are. He
answers that he has forgotten, but will
brii)2[ them in a minute. A minute, indeed !
Exactly a quarter of an hour has elapsed
since I first made known my modest demand.
By this time, all my desire for a

glass of comforting liquor has vanished.
I resolve to do without it. No doubt I am
all the better for my abstention, but it's no
use telling me that this sort of thing is
real comfort. It's downright bondage and
nothing more, and comes from your old
habits, your old institutions and your old
country."

Mr. Tomlinson drew himself up to his
full height, mentally classifying Bob as an
unbearable Yahoo.

I am sorry our manners and customs
should appear so inferior to your Australian
ones," he said, with an ill-disguised
sneer.

It's not that," Bob explained eagerly.
Only you don't seem to value Time in
the way we do. Now, to waste a quarter
of an hour over a drop of whisky would
appear to us almost a sin ; and not only
a sin, but downright ridiculous into the
bargain. But then, we are used to waiting

upon ourselves, which no doubt makes all
the difference."

We English are a conservative race, I'll
admit," returned Mr. Tomlinson, in a more
conciliatory tone ; " but it is rather hard
to find one's own children turn round and
abuse one."

My dear sir," exclaimed Bob, pray
don't imagine for a single moment that
I have not the greatest respect and admiration
for your race. Why ! what have
I come over here for, except to pick up
a few wrinkles, and profit by some of your
insular notions But you must forgive me
if, in my blundering way, I try to distinguish
where you are ahead of us, and
where we are ahead of you. We look upto
old England with intense veneration, but
then, even the best of mothers gets ancient,
and leaves her offspring with an advantage
of youth on their side. There are too
many of you over here. Your population

increases, and you are bound in by the sea.
Soon the question will be : ' What shall we
eat ? How shall we exist ? ' In Australia
and America we have still plenty of room,
thank God! but on the other hand our
manners are not polished, and we want a
great deal of the refinement for which you
are conspicuous."

I am pleased to hear you make the
admission, Mr. Jarrett."

I feel disposed to make any number
of admissions, Mr. Tomlinson, only I must
not take up your time by inflicting too
many of my crude, colonial opinions upon
you. And now, what do you say to
accompanying me to the stables? A real
English hunter is what I have longed all
my life to behold."

The solicitor assented to this proposition,
whereupon Bob and his mentor gave up
arguing and proceeded direct to the
stables.

CHAPTEE Iii.

NOT HALF A BAD SORT OF GENT

5>

As is generally the case in most good
hunting counties, great care and attention
had been bestowed upon the equine department.
The stables at Straighten Court were
approached by a massive stone archway,
rendered picturesque by the luxuriant ivy
which clung' to its walls.

This archway led into a square, neatly-tiled
court-yard, round three sides of which
ran the hunters' loose boxes, the remaining
one being devoted to wash-houses, harness
rooms, SiC. The late Captain Straighten
had prided himself on the number and the
superior quality of his horses. Xo man in
the whole county owned better animals or
ones of a higher class.

Out of sixteen, nearly all were thoroughbred,
or next door to it.

This fact, perhaps, was not remarkable
in itself, but it was rendered so by every
single quadruped being up to fourteen
stone. And those who know anything of
horseflesh will at once recognize how much
time, trouble and money must have been
expended by the deceased gentleman to
achieve such a result.

It is far from being easily obtained.
As a rule, the class of thoroughbreds
seen in the hunting field is represented by
weedy screws, long and narrow, possessing
handy heels and suspicious looking
fore-legs. Hie times out of ten they are
worthless cast-ofTs from the turf, who have
been condemned at the very first trial, and
never been allowed the chance of disgracing
themselves in public.

When our friend Bob walked into the
Straighten Court stables, and glanced down

the loni, line of roomy, loose boxes, with
their small-headed, satin-coated inmates,
for the first time since his arrival in
England he expressed himself in terms of
unqualified admiration.

"Yes," he said, turning vivaciously to
his companion, " you beat us here, I'll
admit. Our horses are all very good in
their way, but they are not a patch on
these. They are a rough, ragged, common-looking
lot in comparison. Not but what
they can go  aye, and jump also. Ill back
some of our kangaroos at home to cet to
the bottom of the best horse ever foaled.
It's wonderful how the beggars slip over
the ground. Occasionally, too, we come
across timber that is real awkward. But

for all this, I know quite well how very
superior your English hunting is."

I'm delighted you should think anything

superior over here, Mr. Jarrett," said

Tomlinson, still maintaining a tone of

asperity. " You've been very hard to
satisfy so far."

Well, anyway, I'm satisfied now ; I
don't mind confessing how impatient I am
to try my hand at some hona-Jide fox-hunting,
such as Australia cannot furnish."

You have a stud of horses here, Mr.
Jarrett, which I take it will enable you to
see as much of the sport as you like. I'm
no great connoisseur in such matters myself,
but I always heard that no one was
so famous for the quality of his cattle as my
late respected client."

Ah ! poor chap ! " exclaimed Bob, his
face growing suddenly grave, " I was quite
forgetting about him. Of course, never
having known him makes a lot of difference
; nevertheless it seems horrid of me
to be looking forward to riding his goes,
when he is hardly cold in his grave."

'* It does strike one as rather soon, certainly,"
acquiesced Mr. Tomlinson.

VOL. I 7

Bob Stuck his hands into his trousers
pockets, and for a second appeared to be
revolving some mental problem. It did
not take him long to come to a solution,
for in another minute he said, speaking
decisively, as if to convince himself as well
as his hearer :

It's impossible to pretend to have any
personal feeling for a man who is an
absolute stranger to you. Of course, I am
sorry my uncle's death should have occurred
; but if I were to go about in sackcloth
and ashes, then I should feel like a
most tremendous humbug. Besides," and
his face lit up with youthful enthusiasm,
I can't help wanting to hunt when I get
a chance. By-the-bye, do 3'ou happen to
know when the hounds meet aiain ? "

I really have no idea," returned Mr.
Tomlinson disapprovingly ; for Bob's
manners were not at all in accordance with
his notions of what those of a gentleman

occupying his client's present important
position should be. " You know Matthews,
no doubt ? " and he turned interrogatively
towards Captain Straighten's stud-groom,
who up till now had stood silently by,
looking at his new" master with a very
dubious expression of countenance.

If Matthews was anything, Matthews was
conservative, and like Mr. Tomlinson, he
perceived a good deal in Bob's aspect and
attire not exactly in accordance with his
ideas of the appearance a real " out-and-out
swell " should present.

Yes, sir," he said in answer to the
lawyer's inquiry. " 'Pounds don't go out
'afore Monday week, and," sotto-voce, " they
would not go then, if Lord Littelbrane had
his way."-

Not before Monday week ! " exclaimed
Bob, with a shade of disappointment.
Then I shall be obliged to curb my
impatience. However," addressing Matthews

7*

in his quick, bright way, " I've already
made up my mind which horse I shall ride."

Indeed, sir ! " said the stud-groom, not
without a touch of irony. " May I make
so bold as to inquire your choice ? "

Yes ; " said Bob, " this is the animal
that takes my fancy. I don't set up for an
authority but according to my views, he's
the pick of the whole basket," and so saying,
he opened the door of the nearest box,
in which was standing a most admirably
shaped and perfectly proportioned chestnut.

You're not far out, sir," said the old
groom, with a pleased smile beginning to
steal over his face. " I see as 'ow you
knows a good loss when you sees him."

I ought to," replied Bob ; " for one
way and another, I have had plenty to do
with horses. What do you call this handsome
fellow ? "

Kingfisher, sir'*

And not half a bad name, though he is

such a thorough gentleman, that he ought
to have been ' The King ' without the
fisher.' But, I say, " suddenly bending
down and inspecting a couple of half-healed
wales on the good horse's forearms, " what's
the matter here ? He looks as if he had
been in the wars."

Matthews' naturally impassive face began
to twitch.

This, sir," he said, in a curiously
subdued voice, " is the animal on which
Captain Straighten met his death. Kingfisher
was his favourite mount  and rightly
so for a finer hunter never looked through
a bridle. But," with a sigh, " the loss has got
a bad name now, and I'm afraid it will stick
to him all his life, though he don't deserve
it  not one bit. It was no fault of his that
the master came to grief ; and, I tell you,
sir, I went to look at the fence. I could
see the hoof-marks where Kingfisher took
ofi* ; but that there infernal wire was quite

three yards away from the hedge. No
animal living could have cleared it. But 
there  there, I can't bear to think of it all."

And so saying, Matthews, totally overcome
by the recent sad occurrence, and by
the stir-ma which he imagined would attach
to his favourite horse henceforth and forever,
turned sharply away so as to hide two
great tears that were coursing slowly down
his weatherbeaten cheeks.

Up till now Bob had taken somewhat of
a dislike to the man. He fancied he was
verified and stuck-up ; but as he listened to
the husky tones in which Matthews concluded
the above speech, his heart grew
suddenly soft, and yielding to a kindly
impulse, he laid his hand on the old groom's
shoulder.

Look here, my man," he said, glancing
down at him with a pair of bright, yet
compassionate eyes, " you don't cotton over
and above much to me, I know. One

always feels these sort of things without
being told 'em. From all I hear, you have
had a very good master, and therefore I,
for one, say you are quite right not to
welcome a new one in too much of a
hurry."

It ain't that exactly, sir," interrupted
Matthews, with evident embarrassment ;
leastways, not altogether."

Well, never mind ; we need not go into
all the ins and outs just now, but I can
make a pretty shrewd guess as to your
feelings, and, by jingo, were I in your place
I should feel exactly the same. Moreover,
Matthews, I can see quite plainly that
you're not easy in your mind about Kingfisher.
You think after what has happened,
I shall probably want to sell him."

Oh, sir, but you've just guessed my
thoughts entirely," and once more Matthews'
eyes began to blink suspiciously, whilst he
cleared his throat with evident effort.

Now look here'' said Bob, " I daresay
I'm very far from being the sort of master
you have been accustomed to ; but that
ain't my fault any more than it is yours. I
may be rough ; nevertheless, when I say a
thing I mean it ; and I give you my word
of honour that the chestnut shall never pass
into strange hands. I know without being
told what a good horse he is. I will keep
him and ride him fairly, just as if all this
bad business had never happened ; and
when he gets too old for work, and past
picking up a comfortable livelihood in the
green fields, then we'll just send a bullet
through the poor fellow's head and put him
out of his misery. There, does that satisfy
sou ? " and Bob looked the stud-groom
straight in the face.

All of a sudden, Matthews seized Bob's
hand and began jerking it up and down,
exactly as if he were at work on a pump-handle.


This process lasted several seconds. At
last lie found 'Voice enough to say
huskily :

" God bless you, sir, for those kind
words. They show that you have got a
good heart. And it would just about have
broken me down to have seen the best
horse in this, or any county, put up for
sale at public auction. I bred him myself ;
handled and broke him in. Nobody except
me and my poor master ever knew how good
he was. Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! the thought
of losing Kingfisher as well as Captain
Straighten has pretty nigh drove me mad,"
and he wiped his brow with a red cotton
handkerchief.

My poor old chap, don't give the
matter another thought. I have promised
not to sell the horse, and nothing shall
induce me to do so."

And so saying, Bob, who was himself
beginning to feel a little affected by

Matthews' emotion, left the stables and
strolled leisurely towards the house.

Matthews looked after him long and
critically.

"Yes," he muttered to himself, " he maybe
a bit rough  in fact, he is rough.
There ain't one man in a thousand as has
got the captain's beautiful, soft, lazy
manner ; but for all that, he's not half a
bad sort of gent. Anyway, I intend to do
my booty by him and be all on the square.
I'll let no one rob him if I can help it."

And later on, if Matthews ever heard a
disparaging word about Bob uttered in his
presence, he always looked severely at the
offender, and said :

You're talking of what you know nothing
about. Now I can tell you for a fact
that Mr. Jarrett is a truer gentleman than
many of those as thinks a lot more of
themselves and is not half so hood in
reality,"

LONGING FOR A RIDE.

A WEEK passed slowly away, and never in
his life had Eobert P. Jarrett, Esq., felt
more thoroughly bored and altogether
miserable. His new prosperity sat uneasily
upon him. He missed the simple laborious
open air life to which he had been accustomed.
If he attempted to do the most
ordinary thing for himself, he found that
there was nearly always, within arm's
reach, some individual whose duty it was
to perform that thing, and who felt
aggrieved and astonished by " The Master  '
encroaching upon his or her rights and
privileges.

To be thus waited upon, might soon

have grown bearable to one unaccustomed
to luxury, had the particular thing only
been well done. But this it never was.

To take one small instance amongst
many.

Bob had always been in the habit of
sharpening his own razors. It is possible
that they were not invariably perfectly
stopped, but at any rate, he sharpened
them to his entire satisfaction. But now
he was no longer allowed to continue this
practice. The gentleman of the padded
calves; took charge of his shaving apparatus,
and professed to honour it with his personal
supervision. The consequence was that
never before had Bob's chin suffered to
such an extent. Hardly a morning passed
without its receiving some injury of a painful
and unsightly nature.

His clothes were another source of
annoyance.

They were constantly being folded up

and put away in drawers and cupboards
whose very existence he knew nothing of.
To find any particular garment was like
looking for a needle in a barrel of bran.
It was enough for him to place an entirely
clean pocket handkerchief in his pocket
over night to discover it, after a long
search, deposited next morning in the
dirty linen basket, along with socks worn
for three or four hours only, collars that
had not a stain or a disfiguring mark upon
them, and shirts that looked as if they had
just returned from the washerwoman's
hands.

Now these things, although trifles, were
trifles utterly opposed to Bob's habits,
principles and education. He had a horror
of waste, but more especially of that waste
so seldom considered, i.e., the needless
expenditure of human labour and of human
vitality. His theory was, that people
should use their heads and save their hands.

TJdilk what you have got to do, and
then do it ! " he often said to the men
employed on his farm ; " but never put
out your strength needlessly. For instance,
I drop a handkerchief and a knife out of
my pocket ; if I am wise, I pick them both
up together. The one action of stooping
answers a double purpose ; but a foolish
man will pick up first the one and then the
other. Instead of bending down once, he
bends twice, and by so doing expends
physical force, which with a very little
consideration might have been economized."

Bob's theories were, no doubt, all very
well in their way, but he had not been
four and twenty hours in the mother
country before discovering that, when
tested, they were practically useless. It
seemed to him that mam' of the lower
classes in Eudand had never been taught to
think. At least, that was the only way he
could account for their stupidity. As

for the domestic servants at Straiclitem
Court, they almost maddened him. One
and all lived in a little narrow groove,
filling their stomachs and starving their
intellects, and performing their daily tasks
without an atom of forethought or intelligence.


Perhaps it was because Bob had been
brought up as a very poor man that habits
of waste, luxury and expenditure did not
come easily to him when he suddenly found
himself placed in the position of a rich
one.

To have plenty of money at one's command,
no doubt was pleasant ; but there
were certain accompaniments of fortune
which appeared almost intolerable to the
simply reared Australian.

And amongst the most intolerable,
strange to say, he classed his daily meals.

To eat breakfast, luncheon and dinner
in stately solitude, and be solemnly stared

at and execrably waited upon by a couple ot
stolid men-servants, was almost more than he
could stand. Over and over again he felt
as if he must jump up from the table  they
where so horribly slow  and just take what
he wanted, independent of the fuss and the
dignity and the needless procrastination.
It set every nerve on tension, and filled
him with a mad desire to kick butler and
footman out of the room, and dispense
with their services altogether.

At such times he felt extremely homesick
and his thoughts would wander off to
the pleasant, sociable meals of Australia.
In his mind's eye he could see his mother
sittings at one end of the table, smiling
tenderly at him. lie could see himself
occupying the seat opposite, and all the
bright, eager, healthy, happy faces of his
young brothers and sisters, as they crowded
round the board and looked up to him as
the head of the family.

Once more he heard the merry hum of

ft/

voices and peals of light-hearted laughter,
mixing with the clatter of knives and forks,
whilst from the oldest to the youngest each
tried to supply not only his own, but also
his neighbour's wants. There was little
enough of ceremony about those dinners.
And yet how jolly they were ! How
entirely free from silly, unmeaning conventionality.
Bob told himself he would
rather eat a mutton chop over there than
partake of Lord mayor's fare at Straighten
Court ; in fact, he became so nervous, that
he positively dreaded the long, dull stately
banquets, eaten amidst outward surroundings
of magnificence, but with an inward
sense of intense discomfort and annoyance.
True, he had only to express a wish for
the men-servants to retire ; but that was
precisely what he dared not do. He knew
he was raw, he knew he was ignorant, and
in his innermost heart Turned a consuming
VOL. I. 8

ambition in all things to imitate the habits
and customs of a real county gentleman.

If I am to live here in future," he
mused, with the common sense characteristic
of him, " I must get to be one of them.
I can tell by my own feelings that I've
got the deuce of a lot to learn. It's queer
that so many of these English habits should
go so much against the grain with me, but
I'll force myself to fall in with them all the

same."

It was a brave resolution, rendered the
more so because he had to exercise an
immense amount of will-power to put it
into force, besides - a good deal of self-control,
and what  to him  was personal
inconvenience.

Liberty had been the one predominating
feature of his Colonial life. The bonds
imposed by civilization had hitherto sat
lightly upon him. lie was a child of the
soil, of the sun, of the sky, of the wind ;

and as such, free and unconventional. To
speak the truth and do your duty appeared
to him better than all the most subtle and
specious of religions.

And now he felt cramped and limited,
like a man confined in a strait jacket. He
panted for air, for space. England seemed
to him crreat and vet small : orreat in her
commercial activity, her factories, her vast
and busy emporiums ; but small, in that
she could not see how her love of comfort,
of luxury and pleasure, was like the
Romans of old, slowly but surely bringing
about her downfall. The nation wanted
rousing ; like an over-fed chill, it was
surfeited and sick.

Then in the midst of these tragically
severe reflections, Bob's mind would dart
off again to home. He thought of his
favourite sister ; dear, bright-e3'ed, good-natured
Belle, who was always ready with
sympathy on every occasion, and to whom

8*

he invariably confided all this sorrows and
disappointments. Little Tottie too, with
her rosy face, and comical upturned nose.
How he wished they were with him. He
began to long for somebody to talk to.
For Mr. Tomlinson had left, and Bob, who
was not accustomed to his own society,
quickly wearied of it and pined for companionship.


He missed the occupations of his everyday
life on the farm ; and unacquainted as
3'et with his new duties, he wandered
aimlessly about from house to stable, from
stable to garden, and from garden to
outbuildings.

He would have given a ten pound note
to set to work and dress a horse, dig a
potato bed, or round up the cattle in the
bii: <]reen undulating fields.

list allhoui]:li Englishmen miizht condescend
to such occupations in other
countries, they could not do so in their

own. Caste and custom equally forbade
it.

At last this lonsf, honos week came to an
end, and the meets of the Morbey Anstead
hounds were once more advertised in the
papers.

Bob's spirits rose as he conned them
over ; the depression which had crept upon
him vanished. Once more he was all
eagerness and expectation.

His intense wish to go out with a first-rate
pack of English fox-hounds, and judge
for himself what the national sport was
really like, at length appeared in a fairway
of being fulfilled. He looked forward
to this novel experience with all the ardour
of a child.

November the fifteenth broke very differently
from November the first.

The one day had been made up of gloom
and fog, the other was as brilliant as a blue
sky and clear sunshine could render it.

A soft air blew, the fields were vividly
green, the hedgerows only just beginning
to change colour, and but for a few fluttering
leaves falling with lii>ht irregular
motion to the ground, one might have
fancied that summer was still lingering,
loth to take a seven months' farewell of
Mother Earth.

On this eventful moriiinir Bob woke
early, and spent an unusual time over his
toilet. To tell the truth, until now he had
never given it a thought.

But alas ! there were many difficulties in
the way such as he had not dreamt of.

These, perhaps, may be better understood
when it is hinted that he possessed
neither breeches nor boots. The necessity
of such articles had not occurred to him,
and even now he did not consider them to
be of very paramount importance.

But his state of mental serenity soon
received a severe shock.

i

Charles the solemn, Charles the lethargic,
Charles the padded, was he who dealt the
blow. He informed his master that
without such articles of costume he could
not possibly be seen in the hunting field.

Why, bless my heart alive," expostulated
Bob, with considerable animation,
when we 2fokan2:aroo chasing in Australia
we none of us care twopence what we
wear. We think only of the sport, not of
our clothes."

"Yes, sir, I suppose so, sir," answered
Charles, not yielding an inch from the
position he had assumed.

Why ! have you ever been out there ? "
asked Bob quickly.

No, sir ; never, sir."

Then what made you say, ' I suppose
so.' "

Because," said Charles with a huge
accession of dignity, " I imagined that
them sort of way was good enough for

the Colonies, but they don't do over here.
Gents is more pertikler."

How do you mean ? I don't quite
understand."

They likes to look like gentlemen," responded
Charles unsympathetically.

This answer had an exceedingly dispiriting
effect upon Bob. He wondered what
Charles meant by it ? Did he intend to
say that no man could look like a gentleman
unless he wore boots and breeches
out hunting, or was the remark applicable
only to himself ?

What the dickens am I to do, then ? '*
he enquired despondently.

Charles scratched his head ; an operation
which apparently furnished him with an
idea.

Couldn't you get into some of Captain
Straighten's breeches ? " he suggested.
You and he are about of a size, thrush
you ain't shaped exactly alike."

But Bob firmly repudiated this notion.

It seemed to him quite sufficient to step
into the dead man's shoes, inherit his
property, and ride his horses. He drew
the line at wearing his clothes. There was
something unnatural and repulsive in the
thought.

No, no ; of course I couldn't,"
he answered indignantly. " Td sooner
cut my throat first. Don't mention it
again." And he looked sternly at
Charles.

The latter, though infinitely disgusted,
gave up the point, but not before he had
succeeded in detracting considerably from
Bob's pleasure, and making him feel on
thoroughly bad terms with himself.

Finally, after much hesitation, and still
more perplexity, Susan the housemaid was
politely called for, and requested to sew
on two elastic straps to the hem of Bob's
everyday trousers. With this contrivance,

he devoutly hoped his pantaloons would
stop in their place.

Nevertheless, a species of subdued irritation
pervaded his being.

Charles' remarks had left their sting, and
the supercilious smile which wreathed his
fat and oil' countenance, whilst the straps
were being adjusted, still further served to
incense Bob and to increase his anxieties as
to his " get-up."

He had very little personal vanity,
perhaps because as yet it had never been
called into play. Clothes, as clothes, had
not formed one of the chief studies of his
life, as they do of the modern " Master."

The cut of his coat, the sit of his collar,
the claze of his cuffs, and elegance of his
cane, had seldom given him more than a
passing thought ; but now, all at once, he
began to conceive of the immense benefits
which such important items confer upon a
man moving, or aspiring to move, in good

English society. When, eventually, he
sallied forth, he could not help confessing
to himself that even Charles' opinion
carried weight. He would have felt many
degrees easier in his mind could he but
have been convinced of that individual's
approval instead of his undisguised scorn.

The influences of the mother country
were already at work ; and Bob was soon
destined to learn how important a factor
dress is in the hunting field, and how
often by it, and it alone, men are judged,
accepted or rejected.

Ties, bows, buttons, breeches. Who can
affect to despise ye ?

Across Bob's mind flashed a little incident,
which long ago he remembered
having read in some English magazine.
The words recurred to him vividly.

A man once came out hunting who did
not see fit to wear a white collar. In its
place he sported a blue spotted comforter,

which he wound several times round his
thick purple neck. jSow that man never
got on. He was cut by the county.
Nobody knew him. Nobody dreamt of
asking him to dinner. The reason ? Oh !
the reason was simple enough. The comforter
damned him. He might have been
ever so good a fellow, but not a soul would
take the trouble to find out what a person
was like dio was rash enough to dispense
with white collars."

This passage seemed, under present circumstances,
so well adapted to himself,
that Bob's spirits sank away to nothing at
all.

Thank goodness ! he had on a well
glazed collar, but then it was of a turn
down shape, which Charles strongly condemned
; and to make matters worse, his
tie was blue, and spotted also.

As for his nether limbs, when he thought
of those two elastic straps, and how all his

enjoyment and moral peace depended upon
their standing the strain to which they
were subjected, he really had not courage to
glance at them.

He could not refrain from gloomy misgiving.


For what if they were to give way ? In
what position should he then be placed ?
Torturing visions of creased socks, shortened
trousers, and white legs, rose to his mind
and thrilled it with unutterable dismay.

But he was fairly started now, and of all
his retainers, old Matthews had been the
only one to administer a crumb of comfort.

Bob, as already related, desired to ride
Kingfisher, but Kingfisher's wounds were
not yet healed, and Matthews had recommended
a fine, upstanding bay in his place,
named The Swell.

Is he a good 'an?" asked Bob with
some curiosity.

Yes, sir, a ripper, particularly at timber.

You can ride him with confidence. He has
but one fault."

Any objection to stating it,
Matthews ? "

No, sir, not in the least. He won't
face writer."

Oh ! won't he. The beggar ! Not even
if he is made to ? "

Not even if he is made to," responded
Matthews gravely. "The man who rode
him last was not one to put up with any
denial. 'However, we have so few brooks in
these parts that The Swell's little peculiarity
don't so much signify."

So Bob mounted his hunter and rode
off.

He was accustomed to horse exercise,
and had constantly been in the habit of
galloping from one end of his farm to
the other, but he was not accustomed to
the easy paces and springy action of the
animal he now for the first time bestrode.

In ten minutes lie had forgotten all about
the vexations with which his day had begun.
As he entered a grass field, and let The

Swell stride along over the ridge and furrow,
he thought that in his whole life he had
never experienced a more perfect and
exhilarating' sensation.

o

He had decided to ride his hunter out to
covert, the meet being within a couple of
miles of Straighten Court. But short as
was the distance, it proved sufficient to
put him on good terms with The Swell,
and inspire him with confidence in his
mount.

As he trotted down along, straggly street,
bordered on either side by small shops and
unevenly built cottages, which went by the
name of Morton village (the fixture for the
day), and watched the women and children
clustering round the doorways, a smile
spread slowly over his countenance.

Everything was new to him ; everything

a source of interest, \voii(lerment or amusement.


Unconscious of the fiat Yllich had gone
forth against him in the names of Lord
Littelbrane and General Prosieboy, he
looked forward with keen delight to his
introduction to an English field and to a
pack of well-bred, well-trained English
fox-hounds.

Every nerve in his body was quivering
with suppressed excitement.

It seemed to him that surely this would
prove a red-letter day in his life, ever
to be looked back upon with gratifying
recollections.

Poor, foolish young man ! He had yet
to learn that no pleasure equals the pleasure
of anticipation  that joyous picturing of
the imagination, which stern reality strips
of its fancies, just as approaching winter
strips the pretty many-coloured hedgerows.


WELCOMING THE STRANGER.

Of the natural stiffness of county gentlemen,
their reserve towards strangers, their
curious reluctance to make fresh acquaintances,
their distrust of every one who is
not at least the friend of a friend, a scion
of the aristocracy, or furnished with undeniable
credentials Bob knew absolutely
nothing. Cliques and coteries were to him
empty, meaningless words.

Where he came from, such nice distinctions
had not yet been introduced.

He had a kind of an idea that people
who went out hunting were all " hail
fellow, well met " ; the sport united them in
bonds of sympathy an 1 companionship ;
the farmer was as good as the lord, the
TOL I. 9

tradesman as the farmer. At least, such
were Bob's notions.

They showed how ignorant he was, and
how extremely little he knew of the Morbey
Anstead Hunt. Democratic views were
sternly suppressed by that self-approving
body of gentlemen known as the Mutual
Adorationites.

When Bob reached the end of the village,
he found the cottages widened out on either
side in order to inclose a small triangular
common of about two acres in
extent. Here, of a summer's evening, the
lads assembled in great force, pitched their
wickets and enjoyed a good game of cricket.

Just now, the point of attraction proved
to be a neat little whitewashed inn, over
whose door hunch a large and brilliantly
painted signpost. Its 3'ard was full of
horses standing champing at their bits,
or stamping restlessly as the groom in
attendance tightened up the girths, preparatory

to the mounting of this master or
mistress. The hounds had already arrived
and were congregated on the grass, some
rolling, some playing, some placidly waving
their fine-pointed sterns to and fro.

Burnett stood in their midst, mounted
on a powerful, blood-like brown gelding,
whilst the first whip occasionally made the
lash of his hunting crop crack with a
resounding noise, when an inquisitive
hound, more excitable and less obedient
than his comrades, ventured outside the
circle.

The old ones, who knew what they had

come out for, were mostly sensible enough,

but now and again, a youthful member of

the establishment, possessing an active

canine mind, would exhibit a propensity

to make acquaintance with horses' legs,

or sniff suspiciously at the knots of little

sturdy boys and girls who stood watching

the proceedings, half in fear, half in delight.

9*

Then the thonir descended on the
offender's hind quarters, and sent him
yelping back from whence he came,
smarting under a sense of injury. Bob
pulled up his horse, and watched these
and similar incidents with keen interest.
Nothing escaped him. He noticed the
sleekness of the hounds' coats, and what
an admirably matched lot they were. He
looked down into the depths of their honest,
wistful eyes, that appeared now yellow, now
brown, now luminously red, according to
how the sunlight fell upon them.

Mongrels he had seen by the score ; but
never such hounds as these. It was a
delight to watch them ; each movement
betrayed high pedigree. One sedate and
curiously marked fellow particularly took
his fancy. He was a very light hound,
almost white, save for a few patches of tan,
and he lay on the grass, as if determined
not to distress himself until necessary, with

I

Lis noble head reposing contentedly on outstretched
paws, stained to a dark hue by
the muddy roads along which he had
travelled.

Is that a good hound ? " asked Bob of
one of the whips.

The best killer in the pack, sir. He
comes from Lord Lonsdale."

And now people began to arrive from
every quarter. The little common was
dotted over with red coats, thrown up by a
sprinkling of black. The sun shone out and
made the brass buttons twinkle like miniature
stars ; it cast a sheen on the horses' smooth
coals, bringing their strong muscles into
high relief, and lighting up the whole stirring
and varied scene with its clear, genial
rays. Overhead was a soft blue sky, across
whose broad expanse of tender azure floated
a few gossamer clouds, misty and white,
their snowy purity contrasting vividly with
the distant ether.

Bob  who was naturally observant 
thought that, taking? it altogether, he had
never looked upon so goodly a sight.

He no longer wondered at the pride and
enthusiasm Englishmen displayed when
talking of fox-hunting. He could fully
sympathize with their feelings.

For even as he gazed at the bright array,
a glow of exultation thrilled his veins. In
fact, he was so absorbed by all he now saw
for the first time, that he did not notice a
small group of well mounted, well-appointed
men dio had drawn near and were
evidently criticizing the new-comer's
appearance.

Perhaps it was just as well that he
escaped seeing the smiles of mingled
indignation and contempt which disfigured
their countenances, as they stood there
and took stock of their fellow creature.

Luckily for Bob, it did not enter his
head to imagine that he was furnishing

subject of amusement. To tell the truth,
he had clean forgotten all about those
unfortunate elastic straps. The excitement
of the moment had chased their memory
away.

Besides, he also was engaged in making
mental observations, and had already
taken a rapid survey of the assembled
field.

Some few elegant sportsmen he marked
down in his mind's tablet as " real swaoffer
chaps, regular out-and-out swells."
Needless to say these were the Mutual
Adorationites. Others again appeared to
be good fellows, without an atom of
side."

Yet, curiously enough, Bob's instinctive
desire was to make acquaintance with the
former rather than with the latter class.
Chiefly because these extra-refined individuals
were rarities in his Colonial life,
hitherto seldom met with ; and also

because lie had a notion they pofefcCfcised a
certain amount of originality and constituted
a type altogether novel in his
experiences. Perhaps, too, some inward
consciousness whispered that they belonged
to an entirely different order  the order to
which, by his uncle's death, he ought now
to aspire. No doubt they could teach him
manners. For manners, above all, were
what humble-minded Bob told himself he
was sadly deficient in. His heart might be
good, his sentiments irreproachable, but
what was the use of that without fine old
British polish? He was determined to
lose no opportunity of acquiring it.

Meantime, Lord Littelbrane gave the
signal for a move to be made, and hounds
were at once trotted off at a brisk pace to
draw Neverblank Covert, whose name was
suggestive of the good sport it invariably
afforded.

It lay on the slope of a hill, removed

from roads and railways, and was situated
in a scantily populated portion of the
county. The strong, healthy gorse of
which it was composed afforded a retreat
dear to the vulpine race ; and dire was the
disappointment if by any chance Never-blank
failed to furnish a fox when called
upon. As a rule, the chief difficulty
consisted in dislodging the quarry ; for
owing to the stoutness of the gorse, it was
by no means an easy covert for hounds to
draw.

But to-day they were fresh and eager,
and in their ardour heeded not the stabs
inflicted on their fine skins by the sharp-pointed
prickles. By the end of fixe
minutes no less than three foxes were
viewed stealing across the rides.

Hoick, my beauties. Hoick, hoick at
'em," called out Burnett encouragingly, ina
mellow, resonant voice that could be
heard from afar.

Nevertheless, a considerable delay
occurred, during wliicli our friend Bob was
on the tip-toe of expectation.

Once three or four young hounds
appeared for a few minutes, and gave chase
to a startled hare. Bob immediately joined
in the pursuit, but to his intense disappointment,
up rode the first whip and
administered to the offenders such a
punishment that they were only too glad
to effect a retreat, their sense of guilt
weighing heavily upon them.

As for Bob, not being a hound, he was
castigated by the human tongue instead of
by the lash. To his consternation, he
suddenly found himself addressed by a
stout, white-haired, red faced, choleric-looking
old gentleman, who at that
moment bore a curious resemblance to an
infuriated turkey-cock, thanks to the
wobbling muscles of his purple throat.

God d n it, sir ! Where the devil

are you going to ? " he roared out at the
top of his voice, glaring fiercely at Bob
with his small glittering eyes.

I thought we were going to have
a run," answered the young man
apologetically.

The deuce you did, and pray," blankets
blankets, blank  the reader's ear must not
be offended by too faithful a repetition of
the general's language  " what the dickens
do you mean by encouraging Lord
Littelbrane's hounds to run riot ? Eh !
answer me that question." And once
more his flabby, pendulous throat became
convulsed.

I didn't intend to do anything wrong
or against the rules," said Bob meekly.
"But I fancied we were off."

"05* I indeed. You seem to possess a
lively fancy, sir ; rather too lively when
combined with so very' he laid a sneering
emphasis on the word, " small knowledge

of hunting. But you've made a mistake,
let me tell you. The Morbey Anstead
don't go in for teaching beginners how to
hunt. You had far better try some other
pack, for we,'  oh ! the importance, the
majesty and superiority contained in that
word  " expect people to behave themselves
when they come out with us."

This speech angered Bob not a little ;
still with an effort he stifled his wrath. He
had no wish to enter into a quarrel, but more
especially did he dislike squabbling with
a man so many years his senior. He determined
to try the effect of a soft answer.

I beg pardon," he said quietly but
firmly. " I had no idea that I had committed
so gross a breach of etiquette as,
according to you, I unfortunately appear
to have done."

But General Prosieboy was not one to
be easily appeased. After the conversation
which had taken place between himself and

Lord Littelbrane lie felt as if this personal
honour were at stake, and that he was
bound, not only as a gentleman, but also
as a M.A., to crush Bob down to the very
ground. If his opponent had flown into a
temper he would have been more at ease.
The young man's humble, yet at the same
time manly, manner was just a trifle
disconcerting. He must not let his rage
evaporate.

Damnation, sir," he retorted irately.
You had no idea, indeed ! Pray what
excuse is that ? None, none whatever. It
cannot be permitted that you should ruin
our hounds and spoil our day's sport.
People have no right to come out hunting
with a pack like the Morbey Anstead when
they don't even know the difference between
a fox and a hare."

Bob reddened. The speaker's manner
was so intentionally offensive that he
realized at last that this foul-tongued old

gentleman was deliberately setting to work
to insult him. He was a liigli-spirited 3'oung
fellow, and having once arrived at this
conclusion, no longer made any effort to
conceal his indignation.

swill you be good enough to tell me
who you are and what your name is ? " he
inquired with considerable heat.

Blankets blank. " What's that to you ?"
replied the general.

A great deal. I wish to know if you
are authorized to keep the Field in order,
and for what purpose you disgrace yourself
by using: bad lan-uaize."

Damn it, sir. Do you mean to tell me
that you question my authority and wish
to know my name ? "

You have guessed my desire correctly."

*' By gad ! sir, I'm not ashamed of it,"
returned the other excitedly. " It's Crosier
General Frosieboy."

A very applicable name, no doubt,"

said Bob, with a sarcasm he could not refrain
from.

And as for my authority," continued
the general, treating this remark with the
contempt it deserved, and inflating himself
like a balloon filled full of pride instead of
gas, " you need be under no apprehension
about that. I am Lord Littelbrane's most
intimate friend, and every action of mine
invariably meets with his concurrence."

On such an occasion, when he was
fighting the battles of the whole sacred
body of Mutual Adorationites, General
Prosieboy's conscience told him. that it was
a gallant and virtuous thing to draw the
long bow. The young man had to be suppressed
and squashed. At present he
showed no sii]fns of submission.

"I presume then," said Bob, with a
twinkle in his eye, for General Prosieboy's
grandiose manner had an irresistibly comic
effect upon him, " that his lordship is by

no means particular with whom he associates
and has not an easily offended ear."

And so saying Bob galloped off at full
speed, for a loud " gave forrard wa-ay "
rang through the air, repeating itself in
many sounding echoes. This time the fox
really took to his heels, and he, Bob, had
not a moment to lose.

General Prosieboy stood for a second
and looked after him. Then he shook his
head doubtingly.

He ought to be settled  he ought to be
settled," he muttered three or four times
over in tones full of anxiety and dissatisfaction.
" And yet " with an oath,

I'm not sure that he is. Mr. Eobert P.
Jarrett is just about as tough a customer
as I've come across for a lone time. However,
if he feels inclined to show fight I'll
have another shy at him by-andbye."
Whereupon he clapped spurs to his horse
and rode off for the nearest road.

CUTTING THEM ALL DOWN.

Well I'm blowed," said Bob to himself,
as The Swell glided over the pastures with
his long, smooth stride. " That old cove's
boots and breeches were perfection, and yet
I wonder if he is a specimen of the sporting
gentleman. If so, they must be an
uncommonly queer lot."

But General Prosieboy soon vanished
from his thoughts, for the hounds were
straight ahead, running hard and mute,
whilst the Field were already split up into
half-a-dozen different divisions. The Swell,
too, was pulling like one not accustomed
to the indignity of seeing many of his own
species in advance of him. Bob let him go,
vol. I. 10

heiuix also anxious to set to the front as
quickly as possible.

Altlion(h, thanks to his recent encounter,
he had not been particularly fortunate
in securing a start, he soon made the
pleasing discovery that, owing to the extraordinary
speed of his horse, he was only
cantering when others were galloping, and
before very long he succeeded in joining
the leading horsemen.

This position contented him, and he
resolved if possible to maintain it. As
before stated, he was accustomed to riding,
and what he wanted in judgment he made
up in " pluck " and dash. Although The
Swell missed the delicate handling  the
artistic lenctlicninc and shortening: of the
reins to which he had grown accustomed
when carrying his late master  he quickly
ascertained that his present one was not to
be denied. The good hunter's desire was
to be where he could see the hounds. liob*s

wishes were identical, and as he had the
sense to leave The Swell pretty well alone
at his fences, they got on better than might
have been expected.

They had already flown some six or
seven obstacles and had established a
friendly communication. Bob's spirits rose
almost to the ecstatic pitch. His heart
beat fast. Through his veins ran a warm
glow that pervaded his whole frame and
rendered him, for the time being, insensible
to danger. Up to this point the
fencing had been comparatively easy. But
now they came to a narrow gap, blocked
entirely by a huge fallen tree.

The leaders pulled up and looked at it
dubiously. Somebody even suggested
dismounting and trying to force the
stubborn branches aside. Bob laughed in
his sleeve. This was the species of jump
with which he was most familiarized. That
bare, brown trunk, with its spreading

10*

stems shooting between four and five feet
in the air, had no terrors for him.

He gave The Swell a touch of the spurs.
No, to be correct, it was more than a touch.
He intended the application to be of the
gentlest possible nature, but somehow the
rowels remained fixed in the animal's sides
and the next moment they were over,
though not without a scramble.

Still, he had shown these hard-riding
Morbey Anstead gentlemen that the thing
was possible to jump, and before many
seconds had gone by he was joined by
Burnett. At length, after the branches
had been considerably beaten down, several
other Nimrodss hardened their hearts, whilst
the timid went off in search of a gate.

Lord Littelbrane was one of those who
had viewed Bob's performance.

He's a deuce of a fellow to ride, that
nephew of Straighten's," he observed to
General Broiiebov, as the road division

joined them. " A deuce of a fellow, though
he knows nothing whatever about it."

' I'll tell you what he can do as well,"
said the general with venomous animation.

What's that ? " inquired his lordship
apprehensively.

Talk. He'd talk a dog's hind leg
off. Take my advice, my lord, and don't
give him the chance of getting in a
word."

' I don't mean to."

That's right. I had a tussle with
him this morning, and he's simply impossible.
Much more so even than I
thought."

Did you give it to him, Squasher ? "

I did," responded the general grimly.
* But he's not had enough yet. He is one
of those gentlemen who require a second
dose."

One is enough as a rule, is it not ? "
said his lordship, with a faint smile.

It is, but I shall take care to make
number two a very great many degrees
stronger."

Meanwhile, Bob was superlatively happy.
Every jard that the fox continued running
he became increasingly alive to the merits
of the animal he bestrode. No wonder,
then, he was pleased, for it takes such a
combination of qualities to make a good
hunter. A single one <]foes for so little. The
fencing is of no use without the speed, or
the speed without the staying, and even
then, bad manners will often destroy
the whole. In short, a horse who possesses
every desideratum is almost as
hard to find as a pretty woman destitute
of vanity, or an ugly one who is not
soured.

Fence after fence The Swell threw behind
him without a mistake. There are few
sensations more delightful than beariuor
down on a good Lion lace, fn-dinir your

horse come at it exactly in his stride, and
feeling b} intuition before he takes off that
you are safe to get over well.

The Swell was fresh and in an extra
good humour. So far, nothing had
occurred to put him out. The ditches
were dry and no gleam of obnoxious water
offended his eye. Bob's confidence increased
momentarily.

Thirty glorious minutes  minutes full of
concentrated enjoyment  had elapsed since
the fox broke covert. But the pace had
burst him, and he now held out signals of
distress. Burnett's sharp eyes spied him
stealing wearily down a hedge-row, carrying
his brush low and his head outstretched,
yet with every faculty intent on making
his escape.

But how to get into the same field ?

The fence that surrounded it was absolutely
unsuitable. It consisted of a huge
bullfinch, black as Erebus, some eight or

ten feet in height and ordered on either
side by a stiff ox raiL

The boldest Nimrod present recognized
that it would be sheer lunacy to attempt
such a leap. There was but one means of
ingress, namely, through a five-barred gate,
but this proved to be securely chained and
padlocked. With the smallest possible
delay a couple of horsemen dismounted and
endeavoured to take the gate off its hinges.
No, it would not yield an inch. The
assembled group were done. They stood
looking at the timber barrier in dismay,
whilst hounds burst into a bloodthirsty
chorus and raced across the green sward.
Burnett cursed the fate that had mounted
him on a horse bad at rails. He hesitated
and his companions hesitated too. Even
in the far-famed Shires, a five-barred gate
is a thing not often jumped, but it is done
sometimes, and generally either by a well-known
bruiser or else by a complete

novice There was one novice present
who felt desperate, and who moreover was
in a state of such intense physical ecstasy
as rendered him impervious to fear.

Make way," he called out excitedly.
And then he rode resolutely at the gate.

For a brief second, The Swell did not
seem altogether certain whether his rider
were in earnest. The next, reassured by
that subtle electric current which surely
exists between man and horse and speechlessly
communicates to each, the other's
intention, he cocked his small ears and
gathered himself well together.

Then with a powerful twist of his hind
quarters, he flung over the gate, just tapping
it lightly with one hoof, and landed
safely on the other side. It was both high
and stiff, and Bob, conscious of the difficulty
of the jump, cast a hasty backward glance
to see who intended following in his wake.
But nobody showed any disposition to

emulate his example, especially as the leading
hounds were already beginning to
turn.

Lord Littelbrane watched Bob's performance
in silence. If there was one
thing he respected more than another it
was courage ; perhaps because he suspected
a deficiency of that quality in his
own nature, although nothing would have
induced him to admit the fact. Something
very like a tear gathered in his dull blue
eyes.

He turned away, and as he did so, almost
came into collision with General Prosieboy.

Prosieboy," he said mournfully, " I
have never felt the loss of poor, dear Harry
so much as at this moment. We have
nobody left to ride for us now."

ft/

Why, my lord ! What's the matter ? "
"The matter!" he replied in tones of
indescribable misery. " That terrible

ft/

person "  a shudder went through his

delicate frame  " that nephew of Harry's,
has just jumped a five-barred gate and cut
us all down."

The devil he has ! Well, I'm not surprised
to hear it. He's mad enough for
anything."

Yes, but not another man dared follow.
Even Burnett turned away."

And quite right, too," said General
Prosieboy, who was by no means an
advocate of risking one's neck through the
taking of hazardous leaps.

It's a shameful thing to let this Colonial
fellow take the shine out of all our best
men," returned Lord Littelbrane. Then,
with an unwonted burst of emotion, he
added : " Oil ! Harry, Harry, dear old man;
this would never have happened had you
still been in the land of the living. The
glory of the Morbey Anstead has departed."

After clearings the five barred crsitc as
related, Bob experienced a few moments of

triumphant elation ; lie leant forward and
patted The Swell's bright, slender bay-neck.
But before many minutes his elation
changed to dismay.

First, he was a little disconcerted at
finding himself entirely alone. Second, he
was not altogether certain how to proceed,
and third, he perceived that the hounds
had turned sharp back. The last circumstance
was the most annoying of the three.
For, as there was but one way into the
field, so was there but one way out, and
that the same.

Now it is one their to charf]e a
dangerous obstacle when the fury of the
chase is upon you, when your blood is
heated to almost fever pitch, and dozens
of critical eyes are watching your performance
, but it is a very different affair
having to retrace your footsteps in solitude,
perhaps doubting the wisdom of your
action in the first instance. It is astonishing

under such circumstances low much
bigger the original leap looks.

As so often happens out hunting, it
proved a case of the timid finding themselves
better off than the brave. The
former were now in the same field with
the hounds.

Bob alone was separated from them.
He glanced at the gate. There was no
other possible mode of joining his companions.
It looked horribly big, and to
make matters worse, the take-off was now
slightly up-hill, and indented by hoof-marks
of cattle. He saw that he must
not give himself time to think. If the
thing were to be done at all, it must be
done at once.

But perhaps what decided him was the
sight of the noble master and his choleric
old friend staring at him from their point of
vantage with evident amusement.

He resolved to fall rather than let himself

be laughed at by them, and sure
enough, fall he did. The Swell made a
gallant extort, but he tripped over some
uneven ground just as he took off, and
hitting the gate hard with both fore-legs,
turned a complete somersault. Bob was a
little shaken, but not really hurt, and soon
recovered from the shock. lie did not
mind the disaster one bit ; but what did
get his monkey up, was seeing those two
stuck-up, stand-ois men close by never offer
to i>ive him the least assistance. He
thought it downright ungentlemanly of
them, and felt their conduct very keenly ;
especially as he overheard General Proxies
say scoffmgly :

Ha, ha ! Tried to show of! once too
often. Glad he found out his mistake."

The other nodded his colourless head,
and then they rode away together.

But if the Mutual Adorationites were
not kind, others were.

A jolly, good-natured farmer immediately
rushed to the rescue, saying admiringly :

Gad, sir ! But that was a gallant
jump of yours, and a real nasty one into
the bargain ; I hope you are none the
worse for the roll ? ''

Not in the least, thank you," said Bob,
beginning to recover from the annoyance
occasioned by Lord Littelbrane's and
General Prosieboy's conduct. " And fortunately
the horse is not injured either.
At least, as far as I can judge."

Ah ! That's lucky, for he's a good 'un.
Many's the time I have seen the late
Captain Straighten ride him to hounds."

By-the-by," said Bob, '' perhaps you
can tell me who that small, fair-haired,
drab faced man is, speaking to General
Prosieboy."

The farmer looked in the direction indicated.


That ! " he said, as if astonished at his

companion's ignorance. " Oh ! that is Lord
Littelbrane."

I thought so, responded Bob. " What
sort of a fellow is he ? "

That's rather a difficult question forme
to answer, sir, seeing as how I am one
of his lordship's principal tenants."

But Bob had already discovered what he
wanted to know from the man's manner.

Never mind," he said ; " I understand.
If a question is difficult to answer, nine
times out of ten it answers itself."

You're uncommon sharp, sir," said his
companion.

"Think so?" said Bob. "Not sharp
enough, I am afraid, to pick up good
manners from your English gentleman."

With which enigmatical remark, beimi
now fairly mounted, he rode olT to rejoin
the hounds, who were already a couple of
fields distant.

GENERAL PROSIEBOY COMES TO THE FRONT.

Bob urged The Swell to his speed and soon
overtook the pack. He reached them in
the nick of time, for this good, bold fox,
finding himself sorely pressed, after dodging
round some farm premises to regain his
lost wind, once more faced the open, in
hopes of gaining Amberside Hill, some two
or three miles further on.

The gallant fellow put on a desperate
spurt. He knew it was the last of which
he was capable. The country was strong
and thickly fenced. For another ten
minutes the fun continued fast and furious.

As if anxious to wipe out the indignity
of a fall. The Swell jumped brilliantly, and
completely re-established the high opinion

VOL. I. 11

he had hitherto held in the estimation of
his rider. Such glorious excitement soon
made I>ob forget his resentment against
Lord Littelbrane and General Prosieboy.
He felt on good terms with all mankind,
himself and his horse in particular.

For the hounds were in full cry now,
pursuing the failing quarry with wide-open
jaws, red hanging tongues, gleaming eyes,
and upright bristles. Only one more field
separated poor Pug from Amberside Hill.
His foes were bent on pulling him down
before he reached it. He was equally determined
to baffle them. It meant life to him 
only a mouthful of unsavoury food to them.

But though he toiled on gamely, he was
now in full view, and the baying of the
hounds and the yelling of his human
enemies served still further to terrify and
dishearten him. He just managed to creep
through the last fence dividing the road
from Amberside Hill, and lay down panting

in the ditch, where, hidden by dead brown
leaves and yellow edisli, his body was
almost undiscernible. If by this ruse he
could but gain a few moments, then he
might steal into the covert and seek the
shelter of a friendly earth. His calculations
proved correct, for one by one the
eager hounds flashed over him and disappeared
in the wood beyond.

Excited by the prospect of a near finish
to so good a run, every horseman was on
his mettle. They did not heed the stiff
top-binder that ran through the fence, but
charged it in a dozen different places.

Crash ! crash ! and two sportsmen bit
the dust simultaneously, rolling into the
road more forcibly than pleasantly.

Bob got over all right, and hearing the

noise of falling bodies, turned to see who

the unfortunates were. To his surprise, he

perceived that the one nearest to him was

no less a personage than General Prosieboy,

11#

who inspired by the universal enthusiasm, had
for once ventured on so formidable a leap.

He was a stout man and a heavy, and he
did not fall easily. Few people do when
they weigh over fifteen stone and have
passed sixty years of age. For several
seconds he lay immovable. Perhaps he
was more frightened than hurt, but anyhow
the sight of his white hairs mingling with
the dust filled Bob with a sentiment of
compassion.

Good for evil," he said to himself ; and
in another minute he was olT his horse and
lifting; the <][eneral from the oTound. He
wiped him clean, caught his hunter, and
finally  when he had ascertained that no
great damage had been inflicted  helped
him to remount.

All this time General Prosieboy spoke
not a word. He accepted the attentions
bestowed as if they were his due. At last
he gathered up his reins and prepared to

move on. At that moment, Bob, seized by
a sudden desire for reconciliation, and also
prompted by his good-natured Australian
hospitality, looked up at the great M.A.
with a pair of honest, pleading brown eyes,
and said :

Hullo ! old chap. Don't you think you
and I might just as well be friends ? "

To do the general justice, taken by
surprise, for one single moment he relented.

Perhaps Bob saw the softened expression
of his face, for he continued, in tones of
greater confidence : " I'm all alone, and
deuced dull I find it. We have not been
formally introduced to each other, but what
do you say to coming and taking ' pot luck '
with me this evening at Straighten Court ?
Eh?" And as he spoke, he settled one of
the general's gouty old feet in the stirrup.

But that gentleman, ashamed of his
momentary weakness, and indignant with
himself for having experienced it, recovered

from any temporary feeling of softness.
He now considered it incumbent upon him
to be doubly severe and repulsive in order
to atone for the lapse of dignity, which
owing to peculiar conditions, had unfortunately
already taken place. He must not
let the enemy see that there was any joint
in his armour.

Consequently he drew himself up in his
saddle, protruded his chest, and fixing his
cold, gimlet-like eye on the audacious
Bob, said in a solemnly frigid voice, as
if his feelings were outraged beyond description
:

Young man, I make a point of never
dining with persons whose acquaintance I
have not had the pleasure of making in a
proper and orthodox manner. The fact is,
there are so many outsiders come to hunt
with these hounds that it is impossible to
be too particular. Under these circumstances
I must decline the honour of taking

pot luck ' with one who is a complete
stranger to me and likely to remain so."

So saying, and without uttering a single
word of thanks for kindness received, he
trotted off to a field close by, into which
poor Eeynard's body had been dragged,
and was there undergoing the final obsequies.
Despite every shift, his murderers
had found him out.

Bob could only iaze after the general in
speechless amazement.

Darned old fool ! " he exclaimed at last,
with a burst of irrepressible wrath.

And yet there was something comic

about the ancient warrior's behaviour too.

It was so very very small, and displayed so

lamentably narrow a mind. Angry as he
felt at his insolence. Bob could hardly

suppress a smile.

But how about these celebrated English

manners, whose delicacy, refinement, and

true politeness he had so often heard

quoted at head-quarters? Were these
them ?

Why, out in the bush, if one man behaved
to another man in so gross and
insolent a fashion, no name would be considered
bad enough for him. But then,
on the other hand, the offer of a good
dinner did not come as often over there
as it did here. Perhaps that fact made all
the difference.

But reason it out as he might. Bob had
received a tremendous shock. All his preconceived
notions had been subjected to
severe disillusion, an operation which
"whenever it takes place always leaves a
feeling of soreness and blankness behind.

He had been so humble and diffident, so
ready to learn of all the Englishmen he
came across, simply because they possessed
the inestimable advantage of being Englishmen
; and now he thought that he himself
had more polish than they. He might be

rough, blunt, outspoken, but he would
have been ashamed to treat a fellow-creature
as Lord Littelbrane and General
Prosieboy had treated him.

It took him much longer this time to
recover from his disappointment and indignation,
and during the process he did
not attempt to speak to a soul ; in fact,
after his experiences of the morning, he
laid it down as a rule, so long as he
remained in England, not to address a
single person until overtures had first been
made to him. He would be on the safe
side, at any rate, and not expose himself to
any more insults and rebuffs. But circumstances
defeated this intention, and prevented
him from putting it into execution.

Whilst jogging on to get to the next
covert, the whole Field had to pass through
a series of nasty little, awkward bridle-gates,
that flew to, almost as soon as they
were opened. Bob, being mortal and a

man, had before now noticed a very pretty,
smart-looking, little woman, attired in a
scarlet jacket, a white waistcoat, and a
glossy hat, from beneath which her small
coquettish face peeped out very alluringly.
An incident now took place that shocked
all his sense of chivalry. No less than
three gentlemen in succession pushed by,
and allowed one of these gates to slam
upon this lady, thereby preventing her
from getting through and hurting; her hand
as she stretched it out in self-defence.

The very sight made Bob indignant.
There was something so currish and unmanly
about the proceeding to his mind,
especially when there was not even the
excuse of hounds running hard. He
darted forward, held the gate open, and
although several other men availed themselves
of his courtesy, insisted on the lady
passing through before he relaxed his hold.

So natural did this action appear to him.

that he was quite astonished to find her
waiting for him on the other side.

Thank you so much," she said in a
clear, cheery voice. " It was awfully good
of you letting me take your turn."

Please don't mention such a trifle," he
said in reply. " Anybody would have
done it."

She shrugged her shoulders, and shot an /

inquiring glance in his direction.

Are you well acquainted with the
Morbey Anstead ? "

No, this is the first time I have been
out with them."

Lady De Fochsey  for it was she  smiled,
and leaning confidentially towards Bob, said :

You are Mr, Jarrett, are you not. Captain
Straighten's nephew ? "

Yes, how did you know ? "

Never mind, perhaps I guessed. Tell
me, are the ladies in your part of the
world better treated than they are here ? "

From what I have seen in your case, I
should say, most certainly," said Bob emphatically.


"Ah ! don't waste your indignation.
The Morbey Anstead females do not expect
to be made a fuss with ; if they are tolerated
it is all they can hope for. You seethe
men think such a tremendous lot of
themselves, that it is impossible for them
to think much of anybody else."

So it appears," said Bob grimly. " You
have hit it off exactly."

Do you know," and she cast a side-long
glance at him, " the highest compliment I
have ever received from an M.A. was to be
told, I was not in the way. Don't you
think a woman ought to feel immensely
flattered by such a speech? However well
she may ride, however pretty she may be to
look at, and nice to talk to, her highest
reward is ' not in the way.' " And her
ladyship burst into a little sarcastic laugh.

"Do you mean to tell me that such a
saying is meant for praise ? " asked Bob.

Yes," she answered demurely, " from a
Mutual Adorationite : very high praise."

I don't quite understand the phrase ;
what does ' Mutual Adorationite ' mean ? "

I won't explain, because it would take
too long, and you so soon will find out for
yourself. But to return to our sex. When
gates out hunting are small, gentlemen in a
hurry, ladies numerous, the latter go to the
wall. They always do, all through life, for
the simple reason that of all animals, man
is the most animal, and the most selfish,
woman the weakest, and the least
protected."

I am sorry you should think so badly
of us," said Bob.

"I do not think badly of you'' she
replied, letting her limpid blue eyes rest
full upon him. " You exerted your
strength in my behalf."

To her surprise he made no immediate
answer. To tell the truth, lie was a little
taken aback. Being flattered by a pretty
woman was a novel experience.

What are you thinking about ? " she
inquired a trifle pettishly. " You seem as
if you had not heard what I said."

You must excuse my apparent inattention,
Miss " and Bob stopped short, for

he had not an idea whether his companion,
were wife, widow, or maid.

She laughed outright.

Xo, I am not a Miss, though you
evidently seem to think that I ought to be
one. My name is Lady de Fochsey.'' Then
she looked at Bob, and told herself he was
very w ell favoured, and added softly
of the late Sir Jonathan."

There could be no harm in letting him
know that she was free to wed again, if so
disposed.

Besides, she liked young men. Old

ones were so dreadfully prosy, and
always hould talk of themselves. There
was a manly strength about Bob, combined
with an honesty and good-humour of
countenance, which she altogether approved
of, even although his clothes were not
exactly what they might be. But being
a woman and he a man, she was inclined to
regard this defect leniently, whereas if Bob
had belonged to the same sex as herself,
every article of costume would have been
severely criticized. But ladies are nearly
always kinder to gentlemen than to other
ladies, and vice-verse.

"Thv3 fact is," said Bob explanatorily,
whilst you were speaking, I was guilty of
the rudeness of making comparisons
between your country and mine."
May I ask with what result ? "
Certainly. I came to the conclusion
that our men would go simply wild over a
pretty woman," Lady De Fochsey smiled

encouragingly, and Bob, surprised at his
own hardihood, added, " like yourself, for
instance. Whilst over here, from all
accounts, she is not half appreciated at her
true value."

Oh, yes ! " she said, with a twinkle in
her eye. "We are appreciated after a
certain brutal fashion, but not in the
chivalrous, Homeric way, of which you
seem a regular champion."

Chivalrous ! Homeric ! " echoed Bob,
a trifle puzzled. " I'm afraid I'm rather
dull of comprehension'*

Very. Let me put my meaning
clearer. Well, then, in Merry England,
the pattern of philanthropy and civilization,
we are regarded in one of two lights.
Either we are pretty creatures, fatted and
kept sleek at our lord's pleasure, or else weare
beasts of burden, who have to do all
the hard work, and get none of the credit ;
who screw and save at home, whilst

monsieur mon mari cuts a figure in the
world, and spends all the money on
amusing himself. " Oh, yes ! I know."
And she pouted her full lips in a
provocative manner.

"No one could associate you with the
beast of burden," said Bob, growing bolder
as her ladyship became more gracious.

She laughed airily and changed the
conversation.

Come," she said, giving her horse a
touch of her heel, " those tiresome hounds
are nearly out of sight. We must be
moving on."

Whereupon they put their respective
steeds into a canter, but Lady De Fochsey's
chestnut was completely outpaced by The
Swell, and further conversation was therefore
carried on under difficulties. Just
then her ladyship spied Lord Littelbrane a
little way ahead.

Good-bye, for the present," she called

VOL I. 12

out, " come and sse me soon. Any one
will tell you where I live. Your aboriginal
ideas are as interesting to me as, it is to be
hoped, my English ones are to you"' And
she waved the tip of her fingers.

Whereupon Bob rode on, considering he
had had his dismissal, and consoling himself
by thinking it really did not so much matter
what the men were like, when the ladies
were so very, very charming, and so entirely
free from all stillness and ceremony

As for calling, of course he should call,
and only too thankful for the chance.

She was undeniably pretty, although
after the first flutter of excitement had
passed, he told himself that, in spite of her
ladyship's charms, she was not altogether
"his style."

She wanted something. He was not quite
sure what ; but he fancied it was soul.

It was very pleasant, having agreeable
things said to one, but then the pleasantness

was in some degree diminished if you
were not quite certain of the speaker's
sincerity, and could imagine her making the
same pretty little speeches to every man of
her acquaintance. After the reception he
had met with, it was extremely ungrateful
of Bob to harbour such ideas, yet they
occurred to his mind almost involuntarily.

Some inward voice seemed to warn him,
that however much he might be captivated
by Lady De Fochsey, he should never find
in her the ideal woman, with whom some
day he hoped to pass his life in perfect
sympathy and community of spirit.

All the same, he was flattered by the
notice she had taken of him. Besides, she
was the first person, excepting Farmer
Jackson, who had spoken to him in a frank
and friendly fashion. She had lifted the
sense of isolation that had gradually
stolen over his spirit, and he felt more able
now to put up with sneers and insults.

12*

A CHARMING WOMAN.

Lady De Fochsey had many admirers.
Amongst their number it was not often she
encountered one who had the keen insight
to look beyond a pretty, superficial surface
and seek to gauge the depths or shallows
of her real character.

Hers was not an uncommon type of
womanhood. A type that fluctuates
between the good and the bad, and is continually
being attracted and repulsed first
by one, then the other. Stability is difficult
to arrive at under such circumstances, and
scarcely to be looked for. "Without ,
that much talked of thing, the
human soul is but a poor vapid affair.

Lady de Foclisey was frivolous, and yet
not conscious of her frivolity ; artificial to
a degree, but not purposely or intentionally
SD. Her nature was light, facile, variable,
and, unfortunately for herself, it possessed
certain dramatic instincts, which all through
life made her seek for and delight in
situations." As an actress she might
have made a reputation, since as a woman
she never could, refrain from actinij. She
meant no harm by it. It was only imagining
the worlds a stage and she the player.
Occasionally some of her parts fitted in
very well. They did produce an effect.
At other times that failed, and then of
course the player was abused and called a
humbug," if not worse.

And yet, in the real sense of the word,
Lady de Foclisey was not a humbug.
She was true to the instincts implanted
within her. That they were changeable,
capricious, ever striving after sensation,

was perhaps more her misfortune than her
fault. It is not given to all women to be
strong and simple, to see the follies of their
sex, and as much as possible stand aloof
from them. There must be butterflies, even
if their pretty wings are frail and liable to
be smirched and stained.

Lady de Fochsey's conversation was
bright and by the majority all the more
appreciated from the fact of its containing
no depth whatever. With her pretty face
and neat figure, few ever noticed if she
floundered a bit whenever the more serious
topics of the day were mentioned, or got
hopelessly muddled if by any chance
the sciences and logic were touched
upon.

What did it matter ? Women were
made to be amusing, not clever. Nobody
wanted them to be cleverer than the men
it was only upsetting the long-established
order of things, which worked so satisfactorily

for the male portion of creation.
It is so easy to starve another person's
intellect and then say, " You are a
fool," and so hard for the person thus
treated to disprove the assertion. Many
women now-a-days want a chance given
them  a chance of enlarging their education
and proving the real grit of which
they are made. Lady De Fochsey had no
such ambition. She would rather lead up to
an emotional situation with a man, very
human, very weak, and if a little erring so
much the better, than aspire to the highest
knowledge. She liked experimentalizing
and finding: out what chords and combinations
could be drum? from the masculine
nature.

About the female one she troubled herself
very little, except in her own individual
case.

She considered that her duty in the world
was to smile graciously, make full use of

her china-blue eyes, pay little insincere
compliments and by so doing get herself
talked about as " a charming woman."

This duty she fulfilled admirably, though
it must be admitted she possessed more
allies amongst the men than amongst the
ladies.

Taken as a general rule, the hunting-field
is not a sphere calculated to develop
the exchange of many intellectual ideas.
When pursuing the fox, her ladyship was
in her element.

To have a train of young men, no matter
how vapid they might be, always dangling
about her habit skirt, rendered her supremely
happy. The more the happier.
It was a delight to count them up ; a real
grief to find that one had escaped from his
allegiance. She called them her " tame
cats," and was perpetually getting up pretty
little scenes with them, that would have
been an ornament to any private theatricals.

Act the first was invariably : " Charming
woman  love at first siuht." Act the
second  " Quarrel. Charming woman
misunderstood." Act the third  " Grand
reconciliation. Charming woman more
charming than ever." Sometimes, however,
but never when she could help it, there
was a fourth act  " Break away of captive,
charming woman in despair  confounded
at hearing: herself abused."

It is astonishing how many varieties
this little play was capable of. The chief
actor never seemed to tire, but derived
fresh amusement from every rehearsal.

All were fish that came to Lady De Foch-
sey's net. She welcomed Bob as a new
admirer, partly because she was already
prepossessed in his favour by the episode
of the gate, and partly owing to her own
peculiar ideas of true love.

She was always in search of true love,
yet curiously enough had never found it.

When lie married the late Sir Jonathan,
fat, red and wealthy, twenty years older
than herself, she was persuaded the grande
passion had come at last. It hadn't.

Two years of matrimony completely did
away with the illusion as far as the baronet
was concerned. Query :  Would she have
entertained it if he had not had twelve
thousand a year ?

When Sir Jonathan died, Lady De Foch-
sey did not weep her eyes out. After a
decent interval  it was scarcely more  she
recovered from her grief.

And now ! behold the beautiful confidence
of the female nature. She was so
romantic, so trustful and enthusiastic, that
she firmly believed there was no reason,
because one man had failed to answer her
expectations, why another should do the
same.

She had now been a widow for five
years, was twenty-eight years of age, and

began to feel a trifle disappointed with
herself, for not having succeeded in falling
in love.

She was puzzled why the grande passion
did not arrive. She had done her best to
foster it, by reading all sorts of novels of
the ardent, consuming, soul-too-big-for- the-body
type. If anything could have kindled
the required spark such literature ought to
have proved successful.

It helped a little, but only a little, for
the provoking part of it was, that noble
and high-flown as were the theories propounded,
they did not work well when
applied to practical life. There was always
a hitch somewhere.

The Byronic young man with dark passionate
eyes, hollow cheeks and wondrous
magnetic power over all the women with
whom he came in contact  the young man
who cared nothing for material comforts,
who disdained luxury, and did not even

care for a good dinner, was not to be found
now-a-days. The type was dying out, and
every year became more scarce. Lady
De Fochsey entertained a species of veneration
for it ; but even she could not help
admitting, in her own secret consciousness,
that living on romance and sentiment, and
whimsical, high-flown words, might be an
exceedingly fine thing, yet when put to
the actual proof, it was a still finer thing
after a hard day's hunting, when you
came home tired and wet, to find a nice
warm room, a glowing fire and a recherche
little repast awaiting you.

When she stretched herself out full-length
on a sofa, attired in a captivating
tea gown, and read one of the fashionable
Spiritualistic novels on the mysteries of the
occult world, astral planes, electric forces
and so on, she never could quite determine
in her own mind how much or how little
of an impostor she was.

For lie did like her comforts  especially
when she could enjoy them in private. It
was impossible to deny the fact, and what
was worse, each year she seemed to like
them better. But then on the other hand
how exquisitely divine it must be for your
amorous soul to have the power of making
little celestial expeditions quite independent
of its mundane body, and go flitting and
flying about in search of the 
and sure-to-exist-somewhere kindred
spirit.

There was something ecstatic, captivating
and ennobling in the very idea.

And then the delight of the kindred
spirit! The meeting, the joy, the embracing
1 It is to be feared that Lady De Foch-
sey's little head was often in a muddle.
She accepted every new theory of the day,
without understandings a sincere one.

The conflict going on between her body
and her soul verged on the pathetic.

She could not make up her mind whether
to throw in her lot with things heavenly or
things earthly. They both had their fascinations,
and the struggle was terrible.

When she found disappointment in the
one, she had recourse to the other. But
during the hunting season, terrestrial influences
decidedly preponderated.

She could not help liking smart habits
and nice clothes, nor could she refrain
from a feeling of triumph when she reflected
that her waist with a little squeezing
only measured twenty inches round, and
that she could tie a tie better than nine
hunting men out of ten.

Such facts as these compensated for a
good many minor disappointments.

Chief amongst the latter, had been the
want of attention hitherto paid to her by
Lord Littelbrane.

As a man, she did not care for him one
bit, and moreover with that marvellous 

what may fairly be called husband  instinct
possessed by the sex, she knew that she
never should.

He exhibited none of those points which
attract a woman.

He was neither handsome, nor good
company, nor miserable, nor mysterious,
nor magnetically sympathetic. He was
just Lord Littelbrane, with fifteen thousand
a year, and if he had not been Lord
Littelbrane, everybody would have said
what a dull, stupid, uninteresting little
creature he was, and laughed at him forgiving
himself airs.

Although his lordship invariably bowed
to Lady De Fochsey, and sometimes even
went the length of making a remark about
the weather, she was distinctly aware, that
in spite of sundry small overtures on her
side, she had failed to make any impression.
Now this knowledge always irritates
a woman, especially if she be young and

pretty, and a flirt. The game may not
repay the trouble, but if she can't play
it to her mind then she always hankers
after it.

This was exactly Lady De Fochsey's
case.

Besides, she considered it the " proper
thing " to be hand-in-glove with the master,
if only because he loss the master. She
could forgive his showing no civility to
any other ladies, if he showed it to her.
But to be treated exactly the same as the
whole tribe of women who hunted with the
Morbey Anstead hounds, women who had
no pretensions to good looks, who had not
an idea of "getting themselves up," who
did not wear scarlet jackets and white
waistcoats, and whose waists were as flat
as pancakes, was exceedingly mortifying.
Nay, not only mortifying, but incomprehensible.
It went beyond her experience
everywhere else. By much flattery and

insensibility to downright rudeness, she had
contrived to a certain extent to ingratiate
herself with the Mutual Adorationites.
They all condescended to speak to her, but
the desire of her life was to get up a
flirtation with Lord Littelbrane, if only for
the fun of paying him out for having
resisted her charms so long. For that he
should have done so was in every way
unaccountable. She wanted to see him
incorporated among her " tame cats ; "
then wouldn't she lead him a pretty dance.

- i 1 - i': \-r

VOL. I. 13

LOVE BY SELECTION.

With the instincts of a thorough coquette
Lady De Foclisey slightly slackened lier
horse's speed, as she overtook Lord Littel-brave.
If he wished to join her, he should
have the opportunity. Thus thinking, she
favoured him to one of her sweetest smiles.
It was by no means the first time she had
smiled upon him ; but she told herself that
random smiles where like air-wafted seeds,
there was always a chance of their bringing
forth fruit.

So she smiled on and on, with all a
woman's perseverance, and with all a
woman's resolution to turn failure into
success. This man's impenetrability had
piqued her, otherwise she would never have

troubled lier head about him. He was far
too stilT and solemn for lier taste. She
liked people who could tell a good story,
who could appreciate one when they heard
it, and who didn't mind calling a spade a
spade. Now, with his lordship it had to
be termed a " trowel," or else an " implement
for dio'fins the earth." She liked fun
and gaiety and amusement, whereas all he
seemed to think about were the " proprieties."


And she was sick to death of them ; they
had been dinned into her ears ever since
her girlhood, and Sir Jonathan, in his time,
had frequently waxed eloquent on the
subject.

Lady de Fochsey was a woman to whom
admiration was as the breath of life. But
she possessed a certain amount of worldly
sharpness, and had long since come to the
conclusion that the best way of attracting
men was by amusing them ; and if }'0u

amused them, it did not do to be too
particular either in your manners or your
conversation. She had not a very exalted
idea of the male sex, nevertheless she could
not do without masculine society, and often
weakened her own self-respect in the
efforts she made to prove agreeable. She
could no more help casting an inviting
glance at Lord Littelbrane than she could
help being a social butterfly. That glance
seemed to says : " Oh ! do come and talk to
poor little me. For goodness sake, don't
be so stand-off."

Had it not been for his lordship's late
feeling of desolation, he might not have
construed the look in this manner, but big
with his resolution of committing matrimony,
he was more amenable to feminine
influences. Therefore he responded to
Lady De Fochsey's pretty smile, and cantered
up to her side. She immediately
checked the chestnut's speed.

Good morning," she exclaimed gaily.
*'I have not had an opportunity of exchanging
a word with you all this long,
long time. You seemed determined on
ignoring my existence."

He reddened. His conscience pricked
him more than was agreeable.

Now that is positively unkind of you
to say such a thing. Of course one can't
speak to everybody who comes out
hunting, but you," rather clumsily, " you
are different."

Ahem ! that's a mercy : it's gratifying
to my feelings to find I am not included in
the list of people with whom your lordship
cannot condescend to hold converse in the
hunting field."

The satire was lost upon him ; he only
thought her words showed a very proper
sense of his position and of the responsibilities
entailed by it.

Oh ! Ah ! You see there are so many

queer folks come out with these hounds
that one is bound to draw the Hne somewhere."


"Of course," she answered with fine
irony, " still it is pleasing to find you do
not draw it at me, as I began to suspect.
One has feelings, you know," shooting a
languishing' Hance at him, " even although

coo ' tJ

one is only a woman."

I have feelings too," he said solemnly,
looking as crave as an undertaker.

O D

"I'm delighted to hear it, my lord.
Upon my word, there have been times when
I doubted their existence : I should think
they were very uncomfortable ones, judging
from your manner."

They are rather," he admitted, relapsing
into silence. He did not wish todo
anything precipitate, and he thought he
had hone far enough on that tack for the

c o

present. There were just one or two little
points which he wanted to ascertain before

committing himself. Was lie a flirt, was
she the least bit " loud," and was that
pretty waist of hers produced by tightening,
or merely the result of natural
slimness ? He set his face against women
compressing this particular portion of their
body unduly. It was detrimental to the
future race. When he married, he intended
to marry with one given object in view. On
that point he was quite determined.
Nothings else could have induced him to
sacrifice his bachelor independence. At
forty-six men are apt to regard matrimony
as a dubious pleasure ; they have become
too selfish and too confirmed in their own
habits.

But in spite of her companion's taciturnity,
Lady De Fochsey had no intention of
allowing their interview thus soon to come
to an end. So good a chance of insertion
the thin edge of the wedge might not occur
again for a long time. If he would not

talk on one subject she would try another,
a very harmless and innocent one, that
could not possibly frighten him. Perhaps
she had been a little  just a little  too
sarcastic, only she did so long to give him
a good shake, and put some life and
naughtiness into him. He was so frightfully
slow and heavy, and yet did not seem
to have the least idea of the fact.

Dear me ! " she exclaimed, reining in
her horse, with a gesture of feminine exhaustion.
"What a terribly long joel
How much further is it to the covert ? "

She thought it well to ascertain what
time was likely to be accorded her, so as to
make a satisfactory disposition of her
forces.

Only about a quarter of a mile," he
answered, taking stock of the width of her
chest and the symmetry of her limbs. A
narrow-chested woman would not have met
with his approbation.

What a comfort ! That's the most
cheering piece of news I've heard for a
long time."

Are you tired, Lady De Fochsey ? "

Dreadfully so ; Burnett has been going
at such a tremendous pace ; I canst think
what has made him in so great a hurry.
Poor Little Mayfly," bending forward
and patting her horse's neck, " is quite
hot."

"And her mistress? "

"Her mistress is hot too."

Why don't you walk a little, and take
a rest ? " he su2!"2:ested.

Co

'' I can't, I should be left alone, all by
myself, miles away from everybody."
Not if you will let me stay with you."
She turned her blue eyes full upon him.
She had never noticed before how weak
and watery his colourless ones were, but
she softened her voice, and said caressingly
:

' Tore ! oil ! Lord Littelbrane ; you
can't be in earnest, surely ? "

Yes' he rejoined, growing bolder.
Why not me as well as another ? " and
the warm blood rushed up into his faded
face, giving it quite an animated expression.


Again she smiled ; this time with conscious
triumph. Her theory of the seedling
had proved correct. A clever woman has
only to bide her time, and there are very
few men who will escape her. If she has
good looks as well, then she can count
almost surely on the result.

You  you are very kind," she said,
coyly.

I think you might trust me a little
bit," he said, dropping his voice.

But this was too much for her ladyship's
sense of the ridiculous. She laughed out
loud.

I have trusted you, Lord Littelbrane, I

have trusted you for the last three years,
and hunted regularly with these hounds.
Only " checking herself abruptly.

Go on," he said impatiently. " Only
what ? "

Must I tell you ? "

Yes."

Then," raising her limpid blue eyes
reproachfully to his, ' jou have never
displayed the slightest wish for me to place
faith in you until to-day. I have trusted
you enormously, but always  from a
distance."

He felt flattered. He was not sharp-witted
enough to detect the fine since of
irony present in even her prettiest speeches ;
at all events he chose only to extract the
honey.

Lady De Fochsey," he said, with considerable
agitation, " will you promise me
something ? "

What is it, my lord ? A wise woman

never makes rash promises. She listens
first, and promises afterwards."

Promise that you will trust me from a
distance no longer."

She hesitated for a moment  just a
pretty little feminine hesitation, calculated
to make him more eager. Then, with
another swift upward look of the blue eyes,
she said demurely :

"It is for you, not me, to decide the
distance. You can hardly expect me to
make the first advances. Remember, that
for these three long years I have always
been under the impression you did not
like me."

Never had Lady De Fochsey appeared
to greater advantage than when she uttered
these words.

The air and exercise had brought a
rosy flush to her cheeks. Her eyes
sparkled with fun-triumph, and excitement,
and her neat, upright figure.

with its perfectly fitting scarlet coat,
swayed voluptuously to and from yielding
to every movement of lier horse. What
matter that the captivating golden fringe,
which peeped from beneath her hat, was
false ; or that she was suffering agonies
from the pretty little patent leather boot
displayed with such extreme liberality ?
The soul knoweth its own bitterness, and
Lord Littelbrane knew nothing of these
things. He saw her only as she appeared
to the outside world, not as she was and
felt to herself.

Me ! Dislike you f' he stammered,
beginning to wonder at his own indifference.
'' How could you have entertained
so preposterous an idea ? "

I did not know  I  I thought you
tried to avoid me."

Pure imagination, my dear lady. The
fact of the matter is, that in my position
as master of hounds, it does not do for me

to display any active preferences out
hunting."

You have certainly succeeded in concealing
them admirably," she interrupted,
her love of fun jettiiii:? the better of her
prudence. "No one could possibly have
suspected that you entertained any. In
fact your avoidance of womankind was
almost marked,"

1 don't profess to be what is called a
lady's man," he said, not without a touch
of pride.

"And I am sure that nobody would
accuse you of beinir one " she retorted in
her most agacante manner.

But," he went on, blushing up to the
very roots of his hair, " I have always
admired you. Always," emphatically.
From the very first."

She burst into a peal of silvery laughter.

Oh ! mv lord, you do me too much
honour. 1 am charmed to hear it' And

throuo-Ia lier vain little frame shot a thrill

o

of triumph.

Ton my soul, it's the truth. You're
an awfully nice woman."

In that case, you must be a very stupid
man not to have found it out sooner."

By Jingo ! I believe you are right.
You think I have been remiss in my attentions,
do sou ? "

I did not say so, my lord."

No, but your words implied it. Come,
tell me. Have I not guessed pretty near
the mark? " And he sidled up an inch or
two nearer to her. It pleased his vanity to
think that she had been hankering after
him and felt hurt by his non-sociability.

I will not make any damaging admissions,"
she responded, " though perhaps,"
sighing sentimentally, " it may have
occurred to me now and again, that you
considered women out of place in the
hunting? field."

I swear that I never thought any such
thing. Why! Lady De Fochsey, I have
always looked upon you as one of the chief
ornaments of my hunt."

She could not suppress her mirth. It
was so irresistibly funny after three whole
years to find him wake up all of a sudden,
for no apparent rhyme or reason, and begin
paying her a series of grave and elaborate
compliments. She hardly knew whether
he was in earnest or not.

But anyway, she had not the least
intention of letting him see how elated she
felt. She was far too well versed in the
ways of the world to jump down a man's
throat who had committed the heinous
offence of taking such an unconscionable
time in discovering her attractions. True,
it was better than not fading them out at
all, but he must be made to feel his own
stupidity  the pleasures he had missed.

You will turn my head by so much

adulation," she said demurely. " May I
venture to ask when you first made the
discovery of my being an ornament to
your hunt ? It must have been extremely
recent."

Her mocking, airy tone disconcerted,
whilst it provoked him. He hated " chaff."
And across his mind dimly crept the idea
that she was " chaffing " him.

I have stated a fact," he said reprovingly,
" and you seem to doubt my word,
I don't like sceptical people."

Quite right," said her ladyship quiz-singly.
" They are apt to be bores at
times. Nevertheless, I do not think you
need feel surprised at my being a little
slow of belief. It has only just dawned
upon me, that I am an ornament, at all
events in your eyes."

'*I suppose you thought me blind,
then ? " he said somewhat huffily.

I am not quite sure. I believe I con-vol.

I. 14

ordered you blind, after the manner of those
who won't see. People say that is the
worst form of any."

Well, my eyes are opened at last, at
any rate, and I apologise for all my short-confine's."


*' Don't," she said jestingly. " It would
take you such a long time. Besides,"
shrugging her shoulders with a coquettish
gesture, " it really would be too absurd to
apologise to me, because it has never
entered your head to see anything to
admire in me, until to-day."

Her persistent levity had the effect of
making him more earnest.

"It by no means follows that a man does
not admire a woman because he has not
the impudence to tell her so to her face,"
he said, with some heat.

Don't you think women very easily
forgive that sort of impudence ? " she
asked innocently.

I hardly know."

Do 3011 suppose / would not have
forgiven you, Lord Littelbrane." And
the arrant little flirt looked wickedly-round
at him with her babyish turquoise
eyes.

Well  perhaps you might," he answered,
beginning to feel his head swim,
and his heart beat with a stran!2e and
unaccustomed sensation.

Then why didn't you tell me ? "

This was a regular " poser," and he took
some time before making any answer. At
length he said, with a return to his serious
manner :

I could tell you a good many things if
I chose." And he stared straight out over
his horse's ears, as if afraid to encounter
another glance so full of temptation as the
last.

Do," she said persuasively. " I'm all

curiosity."

14*

He looked undecidedly at lier for a second,
then turned his head away.

Perhaps I may some day," he responded
with growing solemnity, for the immense
gravity of the step he had in contemplation
weighed upon his spirit like a ton of
iron.

If he married, it was from a sense of

duty alone, not to gratify his personal

inclinations. He was bound to commit

matrimony sooner or later, and the lady of

his choice was equally bound to be young,

healthy and well-bred, in order to bring

into the world a desirable number of little

Littelbranes. Selection was a thing he

had not studied very deeply, but he opined

that it should certainly be exercised

amongst people in exalted spheres. His

own, he considered a very exalted sphere;

and therefore the mother of the future

heir of Littelbrane Castle was a being not

to be chosen from the low standard of

human passion, but from the far nobler
and loftier one of the influences she was
likely to bring to bear upon posterity.

Keeping this laudable object steadily in
view, Lord Littelbrane had slowly come to
the conclusion that amongst all the ladies
of his acquaintance, Lady De Fochsey best
fulfilled the necessary conditions.

Eight-ands twenty was an excellent age.
Neither too young nor yet too old. The
only thing that distressed him, was that
she had had no family by her first husband.
But then her married life had been short,
and Sir Jonathan very ailing and infirm.

Such were his reflections, as, fatigued by
the magnitude of the conversational effort
already made, he once more relapsed into
silence. But he little knew the daring
aggressive nature of the woman with wdioni
he had to deal. Lady De Fochsey had
long since recognized him as one of those
men who must be " talked to." She found

it up-hill work, but much practice had
rendered her equal to the occasion.

A penny for your thoughts ! " she
exclaimed, after a prolonged pause, during
which she had been stealthily studying her
companion's face, and thinking how terribly
vapid and dull its owner was. He started
and turned red at being thus attacked.

At that particular moment I was wondering
whether you ever felt lonely," he
said simply.

She forgave him his stupidity, since she
had been occupying his brain.

Sometimes," she said, putting on a
pensive air. " But why do you ask. Do
you ? "

Frightfully, since poor dear Harry
died. I don't know that I can iso on liviuir
by myself much longer. I begin to want a
companion very badly indeed."

Lady De Fochsey was an audacious little
person, and had the gift of saying the

boldest tliinofs in the most innocent and
artless of manners.

If that is so. Lord Littelbrane, why on
earth do you not get married ? Everybody
says that you ought to."

Do they ? " he inquired, flushing
crimson.

Yes, everybody. Is there no one
you like well enough to make your
wife ? "

Yes," he said slowly. " I I think-there
 is."

Ah ! I thought so. And pray, who
may the lucky lady be ? "

Something in the expression of his countenance
made her heart palpitate. A
strange thought flashed through her mind.
A thought full of gratified vanity, but
without one particle of sentiment in its
composition.

He turned quite pale, opened his lips as
if to say something, when alas ! alas ! a

loud tall-ho came rinLinj] t]irou<h the
air.

In another moment they were engulfed
by a galloping crowd, and borne far apart.

Was there ever anything so provoking
? " said Lady De Fochsey to herself.
I do believe he meant to propose. And
oh, what fun it would have been, and what
a feather in my cap ! "

As for Lord Littelbrane, the perspiration
had gathered in great beads upon his noble
brow. He wiped it hastily away, and
uttered a sisli which seemed torn from the
very depths of his being.

By Jove ! " he muttered, " making love
is awful work, worse even than I thought.
It would have been all over with me in
another minute. I was going ahead so
deuced fast." Then he shook this head,
and murmured disapprovingly : " Too fast
too fast by a great deal. It's just as
well that fox went away when he did.

Ko"w I can take another week or two to
make up my mind, and think the matter

over."

He had no doubts about Lady De
Fochsey. It never occurred to him to
imagine that if he condescended to ask, she
was not prepared to accept with pleasure.

HE won't face Waters

Although it was now nearly three o'clock,
and sportsmen had already indulged in one
good gallop, it had by no means abated
their keenness. After the consumer
inactivity, they were full of ardour, which
even the blindness of the country could not
keep in check.

They were just as eager to pursue this
second fox as they had been to follow the
first, and he took them alon at a very fair
pace ; though after the first ten minutes
were over he showed himself in his true
colours, and turned out a faint-hearted,
twisty brute. This fact, however, did not
in the least detract from Bob's pleasure.

He was far too much of a novice at the
game to care whether hounds ran straight,
or round and round in a rino. It was all
the same to him, as long as they kept
moving on, and he could get plenty of
jumping. The jumping, indeed, constituted
his chief delight. He thought far more of
it than of fox and hounds. They were
quite subordinate considerations, as compared
with the glorious and intoxicating
sensation of feeling yourself up in the air
and never knowing in exactly what fashion
you would descend to the earth. There
was an element of damper in the whole
business which gave it a special charm.
One moment your heart was in your
mouth ; the next, words failed to express
the sudden elation which took possession
of every faculty, and made the pulses thrill
with ecstasy. But The Swell and his rider
were no longer so exactly of the same
mind as they had been earlier in the day.

That fastidious animal began to consider
that his powers had been quite sufficiently
exerted. He was too wise and old a hunter
to love jumping for jumping's sake. He
looked upon every unnecessary leap as an
indignity to his understanding, and grew
more and more sulky in consequence.

His late master had almost invariably
ridden him first horse, and sent him home
early. The cunning creature could not seethe
fun of being kept out so long, and
hankered after his comforting warm mash
and good old oats. His buoyancy and
spirits departed. It was almost with a
feeling of resentment that he turned
his head away from home, and for the
second time joined in the chase. His ill-humour
soon became evident. He no
longer fenced as faultlessly as in the
morning. One or two places he negotiated
quite slovenly, crashing right in amongst
the thorns and binders with his hind-legs.

So badly indeed did lie believe, that Bob,
as he sailed down at a big hedge, newly
plashed, with a very blind ditch on the near
side, into which all the lopped-off twigs had
been cast, deemed it advisable to rouse him
up a little bit. The Swell resented the
process and the manner in which it was
done. He missed those subtle touches of
hand and heel to which he was accustomed.
His mouth was fine and very sensitive.

Bob gave it a job, and the horse immediately
tossed up his head, with the
result that he almost put both fore-feet into
the ditch, and only succeeded in getting
over with a desperate Founder, which
landed him on his knees.

Crack, crack, rang an awful report in
Bob's ears as he was jerked violently"
forwards, and then nearly as violently
back, whilst The Swell righted himself,
grunting with terror and indignation. His
unhappy rider knew what had happened.

He needed not to be told. The disaster
wliicli lie feared, with almost morbid fear,
had taken place at last. He glanced
hurriedly at his nether limbs.

Yes, there they were ! Those two
abominable elastic straps, dangling down
about a quarter of a yard in length, from
the hem of his trousers. One of them lead
even a little square bit of cloth still
sticking to it, which proved that the wrench
must have been considerable. An unutterable
horror seized him. A kind of sinking
shame. And yet he did not realize the full
extent of his misfortunes until he had
galloped half-way across a fifty-acre field.

Then he began to feel odious and horrible
sensations of discomfort. The seemed to
come creeping slowly, slowly upward and
to run all along his spine. '\\'arm as he
was, a shudder passed through his frame.
He tried not to look downwards, but a
species of fascination forced him to do so.

Unhappy young man ! The man who
had fancied himself superior to clothes, and
who affected to despise boots and breeches.
What did he see, you ask ?

He saw two inches of white leg  disgustingly
white, that made the matter so
much worse  fully exposed to public
vision ; whilst his stockings had wriooled
themselves into the heels of his boots, and
his trousers were up to his knees. Pitiable
spectacle ! With the agony of desperation,
he tried to pull the one up and the other
down. It afforded only temporary relief.
The wretched things would not stop in their
place. And all this time hounds were
running well, even if not at a furious pace.
Had there been a gate close by he would
have hailed it with joy, and hidden his
diminished head amongst the roadsters.
But there was none. For once Stiff-shire
failed to supply the desired commodity.
He must go on riding, and he

must go on jumping, whether he liked it
or not.

Overwhelmed with confusion, all of a
sudden he heard a loud guffaw. Turning
sharply round in the saddle, he perceived,
carefully crawling through a handy gap, no
less a person than his old antagonist,
General Prosieboy. That man seemed to
have a knack of turning up on every
occasion, just when he was least wanted.
At the present moment he was evidently
gloating over Bob's discomfiture. His fat
old sides literally shook with laughter,
whilst his face assumed a deeper and more
purple hue than its wont. Perhaps Bob
was unreasonable ; but the sight of the
old gentleman simply maddened him. It
seemed to set every nerve quivering and
throbbing, and added a thousand times to
his distress. He would have given a
hundred pounds at that moment to have
been able to punch General Prosieboy 's

head. There was a murderous instinct
within him, which, if not quelled, might
lead to terrible results.

Clapping spurs into The Swell he fled
precipitately, as the only way of escaping
from his tormentor.

But whither ?

He did not think  he did not care, so
long as he was somewhere near the hounds,
and away from the rest of the field.

For five whole minutes he rode like a
madman ; cramming his horse at all sorts
of break-neck places, now crashing into a
bull-finch, anon scrambling over fences,
again smashing recklessly through timber.
The Swell had never been so utterly amazed
and disgusted in the whole course of his

o

career. His legs were a pincushion. They
were stuck full of thorns, his sides were
dark with crimson gore, and a long red
scratch disfigured the stifle of his near hind
leg. To look at him, he might have been
VOL. I. 15

a miserable hireling:, whose rider was benton
having his two guineas' worth to the
very last farthing.

Presently Bob grew calmer. For a
hasty backward glance had shown him
that not a soul was following in his footsteps.
All he wanted was to get away
from the crowd, and to escape their gibes
and jeers.

But before long, his thoughts took a
different turn. He began to imagine that
he was entirely alone with hounds. It
never struck him to look to the right or to
the left. His eyes were fixed on the light
vanishing; sterns ahead. Even the recollection
of those two white legs faded from his
mind, erased by the imaginary glories of his
position. Neither was excitement wanting.
For none can be greater than that of riding
a well-nigh beaten horse at a succession of
big fences, and counting surely on a fall at
each one. A man's courage is severely

tested then  more perhaps than at any-other
time.

With all his good qualities, The Swell
was not a bond fide stayer.

He could live through a really fast run,
first thing in the morning when he came
out fresh and well, but although it might
take some time to discover the fact, he was
a cur at heart. For if he once got ever so
little pumped, he never came again that
day.

The morning gallop had stretched his
girths quite as much as he deemed fit.
After five and thirty to forty minutes, a
twenty-pound screw would have carried a
man almost as well to hounds for the
remainder of the afternoon.

Besides which natural idiosyncrasies, he
had not been out hunting this season and
was a little short of condition, like most
gentlemen's horses early in November.
Bob, however, was not sufficiently *



experienced to take these things into consideration.
He had a good deal to learn yet,
before becoming a finished cross-country
performer. The number of jumps you have
jumped, does not constitute the sole glory
of fox-hunting, as before long he was
destined to discover. Wise is he, who,
nursing his horse, looks upon leaping
simply as a means to an end.

All of a sudden, straight in front of him,
Bob saw the gleam of water peeping coldly
out from amongst a fringe of low, stunted
willows. As he did so, Matthews' words
recurred to him : " He has but one fault,
sir. He won't face water."

But he  Bob  was in that state of sur-excitation,
when he flattered himself that a
really resolute person on The Swell's back was
bound to make all the difference. Because
a horse refused to look at a brook with one
man, he might be persuaded or forced to
have it with another. Anyhow, he would

HE WON'T FACE WATER. 229

not show the white feather, even although
he believed there was no one to see what
he was about. But his own self-respect
shrank from the idea of " funking
Physical cowardice inspired him with a
supreme contempt. As for the hounds 
well, he forgot to notice whether they had
actually crossed the brook or not. He
thought they were going to, and that was
enough. He never observed how old True-tongue
paused on the very brink, and then
feathered along the side. Instead of closely
watching her movements, he caught his
horse by the head, and drove him at the
water, just as hard as ever he could.

To his surprise, he found on approaching
the brook, that it was bigger than he
suspected. Should that alter his determination
? Certainly not.

He raised his whip hand. The Swell
swerved away from it ; and then  oh,
horror I he felt him begin to collapse under

him. He dug the spurs into the poor
beast's sides and kept him as straight as he
could. He held him in such an iron grasp
that he thought the horse was bound to
make a bid for it. Xot he !

In the very last stride, The Swell stopped
dead short, stretched out his neck, lowered
his head and Grazed in mute obstinacy at the
dark depths beneath him. He knew what
they felt like. He had tried them once,
lonsf ajTo in his early youth, and had made
a mental resolve never, by any chance, to
renew their acquaintance. Some might
like cold water. He did not approve of it.
The dry system appeared to him to possess
insuperable advantages. And Bob ? the
rash youth who thought his will was
stronger than that of the animal he
bestrode, and who did not know that a
horse, when he is in earnest, can defy any
man ever born ! Well, Bob simply flew
over his head, like an arrow shot from a

bow, and descended plump into the midst
of the stream. It was awfully deep ! He
went right down to the bottom, rolled about
in the soft mud, and imbibed more water
than he had ever done before or hoped todo
again. Gasping and spluttering, he
rose to the surface, making frantic endeavours
to regain his footing. Ears of
laughter greeted his reappearance  real,
unfeigned, hearty laughter.

It seemed to him, in that never-to-be-forgotten
moment, which crowned all his
previous mishaps, as if the whole of the
Morbey Anstead Field were congregated
on the banks of this fatal brook, and were
unanimous in regarding his involuntary
immersion as a most excellent joke. If he
could have felt any sensations of heat, he
would have grown hot with indignation.
Even The Swell turned his full blue eye
upon him with an air of amiable triumph,
which seemed to say : " Ah ! you would

have done much better to have taken my
advice."

It was a terrible thinf], having? to scramble
out on to terra Firma before all those
laughing faces. Nobody appeared to
possess the least instinct of pit'. Even
Lady De Fochsey, his quondam ally, was
smiling broadly and was evidently greatly
amused.

Poor Bob stood and shook himself like a
Newfoundland dog. The water poured
from his ears and saturated clothes. The
glory of the day had departed. The
sky had clouded over, a cold wind arose
which whistled across the uplands. lie
felt chilled to the bone. And then, all at
once, a gruff voice from amongst the
crowd said :

I say, young fellow, how are the legs ?
They look whiter than ever after getting
such a real good washing. It will save
your soap, anyway."

This sally was received with much
tittering and applause.

Bob could have sworn the voice belonged
to General Prosieboy, but he failed to
perceive that gentleman's whereabouts.
Perhaps it was lucky for his grey hairs.
It is the last straw which breaks the
camel's back.

Bob had endured a good deal, on this
memorable day, from the hands of the
Mutual Adorationites ! He now felt as if
he could endure no more. His wet clothes
clung heavily about him and weighed like
a ton. Without saying a word he
clambered laboriously up into the saddle,
and rode straight off in the direction of
home. Any temporary feeling of elation
had been destroyed by his cold bath. A
more crestfallen, dejected and miserable
young man, it would have been impossible
to find in all Her Majesty's possessions.
Just when he was particularly anxious to

make a favourable deut in the hunting
field, he had contrived to tumble off and
provide amusement for every one present.
The tears almost started to his eyes. He
felt so bitterly humiliated. Swearing was
not a habit he greatly approved of, but
oh ! how he swore at those " confounded "
straps, which, rightly or wrongly, he
looked upon as the chief cause of his
disasters.

THE PLEASURES OF HUNTING.

As soon as lie succeeded in reaching the
first road, Bob set off at a swinging trot.
His teeth were chattering, and his limbs
frozen. To make matters worse the wind
increased, till it seemed to blow through
his clothes as if they were paper, and
chilled the very marrow in his bones.
Under these circumstances, it was perhaps
excusable that he displayed but little regard
for The Swell's fore-legs, and went pounding
along at a tremendous pace. After he had
gone about a couple of miles, he saw a poor
old labourer engrafted in the tedious task
of breaking stones by the road-side.

Then for the first time it occurred to
him, that for aught he knew, he might be

going Throng, since he was by no means
sure of the way. Therefore, checking his
tired horse, he asked : " Is this right for
Straighten! Court, my man ? "

"Yes, sir, quite right, sir," came the
reply. " Keep straight on till you pass
Fullerton village, then turn sharp to the
right, through a bridle-gate, that takes you
across the fields almost into Straight em.
It'll save you a couple of miles if not
more."

But how am I to find the bridle-gate ?"
inquired Bob, intent on making sure of
his directions.

"You can't possibly mistake it, sir,
because there's a sign-post within five
yards."

Moved to compassion by the feeble old
man's shrunken frame, hollow cheeks and
half-starved appearance. Bob fumbled in
his waistcoat pocket until he found a
shilling.

Thank you," he said kindly. " There
take this. I have no doubt that it will
do you a great deal more good than it will
me."

The recipient's blessings followed him ashe
rode away, and for a few minutes he
reflected gravely on the miserable condition
of an honest man like the one he had just
left, when age and infirmity combined to
render the struggle against poverty more
and more difficult. What could life mean
to him ? Only a weary, weary warring
against cold and wind and rain ; against
hunger and fatigue ; without amusement,
without pleasure ; without comfort of any
sort. A dreary existence at best, but
rendered a thousand times more so by
failing health, and the pains of a poor,
worn-out old body. The body ! Ah !
what a drag and torment it was to human
beings ! If only they could rise above it !
And yet even a simple toothache could

dethrone the greatest genius from its seat.
Brain, psychic force : of what did they
avail, when Pain could lay them in the
dust so easily and ride triumphant over
them ? Their very defeat only served to
prove the weakness and mortality of man.

But Bob's meditations were cut short by
a fresh calamity. The road had been
newly mended and was covered with
stones. The Swell toed them with the
carelessness of a weary animal. Suddenly
he trod on a loose flint, and immediately
afterwards went dead lame. So lame
indeed that trotting was out of the
question. It was as much as he could do
to walk.

Bob's star was clearly not in the
ascendant to-day. He thought that he
had already reached the limits of his ill-luck.
He found there was still a martin
which had not entered into his calculations.
Tbe Swell-small ears now bobbed up and

down with torturing irregularity. They
made him feel like a monster of cruelty.

Dismounting, he proceeded to examine
the poor beast's foot, but could perceive
nothing? to account for his sudden lameness.
In truth, it would have taken a pretty
powerful magnifying glass to have detected
that small, sharp piece of granite, which
having penetrated the frog, was causing
such exquisite agony.

Being* now forced to travel at a footpace,
Bob considered it was warmer
walking than riding, besides he could not
help being sorry for the unhappy animal,
whose appearance had undergone such a
total transformation since he sallied forth
in the morning, champing at his bit,
arching his glossy neck and playfully
whisking his tail. There was not a
symptom of light-heartedness left now.
The unfortunate Swell no longer merited
he name. Anything less like an equine

dandy could not have ?seen imagined. His
sleek bay coat Twas hard and white with
dry perspiration, his sides were disfigured
by spur marks, his legs incrusted with mud ;
whilst his eye wore a dull, glazy look,
which told of physical discomfort. If to
him had been given the gift of speech, he
would probably have said : " My master
may be ' plucky,' but never let me see him
again  never let me have anything more todo
with him. He has ridden my tail off."

Bob trudged sturdily on, till at length
he reached Fullerton villaf]fe, and the bridle-gate
beyond. Then, when once more a
vista of green fields refreshed his eyes, he
remounted, thinking that the probabilities
were The Swell would go less tender on the
soft, springy grass.

In this supposition he was correct, nevertheless
it was a weary ride home, cold and
slow and miserable. The sort of ride which
effectually obliterates any pleasant impressions

left by the day's sport, and which
makes a man besoin to ask himself whether
fox-hunting repays the many disappointments
and discomforts that must necessarily
come in its train.

It was a bad thing for Bob, on his very
first acquaintance with the noble pastime,
to have arrived at such a stage, but, as
before stated, physical misery soon makes
a different creature of man, and quickly
subdues him.

Our hero followed the track as well ashe
could, and his spirits slightly revived.
But after a time, the path disappeared,
swallowed up in a sea of grass, and then he
had to trust entirely to his bump of locality
a bump which he did not possess in as
arose a degree as mifht have been expected.


Besides, it is by no means an easy thing
to thread one's way through a series of
narrow gates, in an entirely new country.
VOL. 1. 17

These huge uninhabited pastures, for which
Wiltshire is celebrated all over the hunting
world, and which constitute its glory and
its renown, are desolate in the extreme.
You may go for miles and miles without
meeting anything but herds of grazing
cattle, woolly sheep, and an occasional
rough young colt. The cloud-shadows
race across these vast stretches of undulating
verdure, and the wind sweeps over
them at its icy will. There are scarcely
any trees to break its hire. Only a few
isolated specimens in the hedgerows, which
rear their gaunt, stunted arms to the dull
sky, as if imploring that their lives may be
granted them. Here and there a cjreat
black bullfinch, situated on the summit of
some rising hill, lies like a long dark wall
against the grey horizon. A magpie flits
across the path. Intersected lines of fences
break up the green, rendering it yet more
vivid  and this is StifTshire. Lonely, silent,

sullen, undecked by the beauties of Nature,
set withal not destitute of a certain
grandeur, born of lier vastness and her
desolation. A solitary country, that after
a time possesses a kind of weird charm for
the solitary soul that walks the earth alone.
Bob looked about him. Far as eye could
reach, not a human habitation was within
vision. He began to experience fresh misgivings
as to the route. Sometimes the
fields were so large that they had two or
three gates, and then he was just obliged
to guess at the most likely one. But he
might have gone wrong a dozen times over,
and as the afternoon advanced, would have
been many degrees easier in his mind, could
he but have reached a road. Many and
many a time did he regret having left one.
He would not have grudged the greater
distance, for the sense of extra security
conferred. Already it seemed to him as if
he had been hours on his way.

All of a sudden, just when lie was settling
down into a state of melancholy resignation,
he perceived a brand new gate,
painted white, about fifty yards ahead.
And through the bars of this gate, he saw
the moist road glimmering, as the young
crescent moon, high up aloft, reflected her
pallid face in a little pool of water. Joyfully
he hastened his steps, whilst even The
Swell pricked his ears, and seemed to know
he was nearing home.

Bob stretched out his arm, and tried to
lift up the latch with the crook of his
hunting crop. It was secured by some
new-fangled process which he did not
understand, and yielded not an inch. He
made another essay with the same result,
another and yet another. Then The Swell
grew impatient, and pushed heavily against
the barrier with his stroma chest. Findini]f
it still closed, he lurched away from it in
distrust, as much as to sav, " It is for you

to open this, not me. I've done my best,
now you do yours."

Bob did all lie could to coax him up to
the gate again. He tried patting, he tried
speaking, he tried spurring. But the horse
refused with all the obstinacy of which
brute nature is capable. In little, as in
big things, The Swell would try once, but
never more often. He was like some men
and many women  easily disheartened by
failure, and let failure conquer liim instead
of he conquering failure.

This delay proved most vexatious. For
when you have been immersed in a brook,
on a cold November afternoon, every
minute appears of consequence. Your
whole soul hankers after warmth, and a
dry change of clothes. There was nothing
for it, however, but to get off. Bob
did so, and throwing the reins over his
bridle arm, proceeded to ascertain why
this particular gate was unlike all other

gates, and refused to allow itself to be
opened.

But heaving, pushing, lifting  all proved
useless. At the end of five minutes he was
in despair. Finally he put his shoulder to
the refractory bars, and tried to break
them down by main force. He was a
strong, athletic young fellow, six feet in
height, and broad of chest, with muscles
developed by the healthy open-air life he
had led. But he was just as powerless
af]ainst those strong white timbers as a
child of six. He could not even bend
them, although he put forth all his
strength, and his face turned scarlet with
exertion.

A heavy sigh escaped from him. It
acknowledged his defeat. Totally disconcerted,
he told himself that he must retrace
his footsteps and seek some fresh means of
enter] nu the road. He chanced at the
fence which ran on either side of the gate.

But it was perfectly unsuitable, and even
had it been otherwise, he doubted very
much whether The Swell, in his present
state, could have made an effort. He was
at his wit's end. And then, all at once
hope surged up into his heart.

He heard a noise, the clatter of hoofs
approaching on the hard macadam. Thank
goodness ! help was at hand. The people
of the country would surely understand
how these mysterious gates opened. And
even if the worst came to the worst, with
the aid of another good, strong man, he
felt confident that he could break the
wretched thing down. It would be easy
to pay for the damages afterwards, but
home, sweet home, was the chief consideration
just at present.

Bob's disappointment was therefore extreme,
when a sharp turn in the road
revealed a young deriding a smart dun
cob, about fourteen hands high.

Their eyes met, and she seemed immediately
to guess the cause of his distress.
She blushed a little, hesitated for a
moment, and then pulled the dun up to a
stand.

I see you are in difficulties," she said,
in a voice whose frank, straightforward
tones impressed him favourably. " Will
you allow me to help you P "

In his amazement at this slim, slip of a
girl imagining that she could open a gate
which had defied all his own energies. Bob
did a very rude thing.

He made no answer, but simply stood
still, and stared at the fair Samaritan who
thus kindly volunteered to assist him.

CHAPTER I.

A FRIEND IN NEED.

And as Mr. Eobert Jarrett continued to
stare, lie suddenly woke to the consciousness
that the young lady, whoever she
might be, possessed a very charming face.
A face soft, and fresh, and fair ; round inform,
delicate in colouring, and beautified
by a pair of clear gray eyes, fringed with
long dark eye-lashes, whose straightforward
and honest expression was attractive in the
extreme.

She reddened imperceptibly at his somewhat
prolonged scrutiny. Then finding
he did not reply to her offer of assistance,

VOL. II. 17

she broke into a little laujzh, and said

liflitlv :

Ah ! I see you think I am makini] a
vain boast, in offering to help you out of
your present dilemma, but the difficulty is
by no means as great as it seems."

It has puzzled me for some time," said
Bob, wiping his damp brow with a silk
pocket-handkerchief. " I never saw such
a orate in my life."

She laughed again, merrily like a little
child, and clapped her hands together.

Ah ! YOU are not the first gentleman
who has been similarly baffled. Indeed,
I often tell Farmer Budge quite seriously
that he ought to put up a notice, giving
full directions as to how his gates open,
but he declares this is precisely what he
does not want. Now, look here and I will
show you the secret. There ! do you see ? "
and stooping' down from the saddle, she
pressed a small iron knob, imbedded in the

wood at the very end of the latch, and
which Bob in his impatience had entirely
overlooked.

The gate immediately Hew open.

It is quite simple once you know
the way," she said with a smile of amusement.


' Like a food many other thinf][s," he
remarked, as he led The Swell on to the
road.

"These latches were exhibited at the
last Agricultural Show, I believe," she
went on, talking naturally and easily.
"Farmer Budge has taken out a patent
and claims to be the inventor. He is very
proud of them, but all the hunting gentlemen
are loud in their condemnation."

' I don't wonder. They are diabolical

things, and I really can't think what would

have become of me if you had not just

happened to appear when you did."

And yet you looked a little *



appointed, at least judging from the expression
of your face," she said archly.

Bob blushed. He had no idea that his
countenance had betrayed him, or that she
would prove so discerning.

IIow sharp you are. Well, I will not
deny the truth. I was a little disappointed,
because I thought it had come to be a
regular case of brute force, which would
require a couple of men's strength."

Whereas female cunning has answered
the purpose as well," she retorted gaily.

It has answered the purpose so far,
that I cannot help feeling I owe you an
immense debt of gratitude."

And as he spoke, he caught hold of The
Swell's mane, hoisted himself into the
saddle, and moved on a pace or two.

His companion, whose way was apparently
identical, instead of wishing him
good-bye, continued to ride by his side.
She was not very smartly dressed, not

nearly as smartly as Lady De Eoclisey.
Her plain black habit showed symptoms of
wear. It had a large leather patch over
the knee, and the seams were decidedly
threadbare ; but for all that, Bob thought
there was no comparison between the two
women. With the one, every tone, every
action, was evidently studied ; with the
other, a freedom from all self-consciousness
gave her an undefinable charm, which he
felt before he had been two minutes in her
presence.

Oh ! " she exclaimed ; " how dreadfully
lame your poor horse is. What is the
matter with him ? "

I don't know," answered Bob. "But
I can't get him along at all."

You shouldn't try to," she said reproachfully,
as he endeavoured to increase
the speed. " If you do, you deserve to betaken
up for cruelty to animals."

It would not matter if it were not

SO infernally cold," he rejoined w'itli a
shiver.

She looked up at him with an air of true
feminine pity, which sank deep into the
foolish fellow's heart. All through the
day that particular organ had. been
hardening and hardening, until at last it
felt like a stone. One single glance from a
pretty, fresh-faced, young woman made a
curious difference in his sensations. It was
so. sweet to find that somebody sympathised
in his misfortunes, instead of turning them
into ridicule. A lump came into his throat,
as her soft, compassionate eyes rested upon
him.

*' Did you meet with an accident ? " she
asked commiserating.

It was as if he could not tell her an
untruth, or even conceal his shortcomings.


I tumbled off into a brook. Mv horse
stopped short, and I Hew over his head.

No doubt I ought not to have quitted the
pigskin, but I did."

He spoke with a kind of defiant doggedness,
which betrayed a secret fear that she
might laugh at him. Apparently nothing
was further from her intentions. She had
laughed merrily enough a few moments
ago. He had only thought to himself how
pure and childlike her mirth sounded.
But now her little flower-like face, with its
large eyes and rose-bud mouth, looked very
grave and sedate.

"Everybody comes off when they ought
not to," she said consolingly. " We think
nothing of such small casualties down
here. Why ! the very best rider in all
the Hunt  a poor man who was killed
only the other day, Hew off last season
before the whole field, without any
apparent reason. But tell me, have you
far to go ? Because if so, we could change
saddles, and I might lend you my dear old

Mouse to ride home upon. You 'v'ould get
there sooner."

Bob was quite affected by the kindness
of this proposal, coming as it did from a
complete stranger.

And you  what would you do ? " he
said after a slight pause.

I ? Oh ! I should put your horse into
our stable, and let the poor thing remain
there till you send for him. How much
further have you to ao ? " returning to her
point.

I really haven't an idea. I'm a stranger,
and have never hunted here before
to-day."

' Will you tell me, then, for what place
you are bound ? I know most of the
distances pretty accurately, having lived
in this part of the world nearly all my
life."

I am bound for Straighten Court "said
Bob in reply. "

Lie gave a little start.

Then you are Mr. Jarrett ! I thought
as much."

Did you ? How was that ? " he asked
with awakening curiosity.

"Because I know the greater number
of the regular habitues of our hunt, at all
events by sight."

"Don't you think," said Bob, "that
since I have told you my name, you might
as well tell me yours ; it's always more
comfortable to know who people are."

If it would add to your comfort in anyway,
Mr. Jarrett," she replied jestingly, " I
have great pleasure in informing you that
my name is Dot." And two mischievous
dimples appeared in either cheek.

Dot ! " he repeated, lingering unconsciously
on the word. "What is Dot
short for ? "

Dorothea. Being a rather small person,
I was presented with a very grand name.

But as everybody seems to find it rather a
mouthful, it has been reduced to Dot."

"Dot what? I rather like Dot," and
Bob stole a glance at her ; " but I suppose
you have a surname like all the rest of the
world."

Oh ! yes, Lankester. But let me introduce
myself formally. Miss Dorothea
Lankester, only daughter of Doctor Hugh
Lankester, who enjoys the privilege and
distinction of dispensing nostrums to the
good people in your village. When you
require medical aid, Mr. Jarrett, please
think of us." And she turned a pair of
laughing gray eyes full upon him."

Would you come to nurse me ? " he
asked, chiming in with her mood.

"I should have to. Ko choice would be
given me in the matter. So mind and
don't fall ill. I always say that I would
rather attend to a dozen women than one
man''

Why ? I should have thought it would
have been the other way about."

Because the men have not got a bit of
pluck, and give in at once. They always
make up their minds that they are going
to die, even if they only cut their finger,
whereas women are so used to discomfort
and physical pain, that they bear even the
most dreadful sufferings with stoicism."

'' I shouldn't mind putting up with a
good deal of discomfort to be nursed by
you," said Bob, still harping on the same
idea, and getting bolder as he began to feel
more at ease.

Oh ! no, you wouldn't." And she
pursed up her little face till it wore a
comically severe expression. " I'm an
awfully strict nurse and keep my patients
in thorough order."

I hope we shall see a great deal
of each other," he said, visions of neighbourly
visits, pleasant dinners, and delightful

country rides with Miss Dot flashing
across his mind's eye. " It will be so nice
for us to be good friends'*

Very," she replied with frank unconsciousness.
" The worst of it is, father is
generally so dreadfully busy, he hardly
ever has a moment to himself. He was
only saying to-da}-. that really we ought to
call upon you."

Who are we ? " asked Bob, artfully
endeavouring to find out of how many
members the family of Miss Lankester
consisted.

Mother and me. Father very seldom
is able to come with us when we leave his
paste-boards."

"Don't pay me a formal visit," he
said eagerly. " I do so hate them. And
and  what day may I expect you ?" He
was making great strides towards intimacy.
Somehow he felt as if he had known her
all his life.

I really can't say exactly, Mr. Jarrett."
lie replied, smiling at his impressment.

Come any non-hunting day. Tuesday,
for instance. That's tomorrow, isn't it ? "

Very well, I'll ask mother."

Wait a bit, though. Why not come to
dinner ? " urged hospitable Bob. "It
"would be ever so much jollier." Then,
with a sudden burst of confidence, inspired
by Miss Dot's sympathetic manner, he
added plaintively : " I can't tell you how
lonely I've been all this time. It will be a
perfect godsend to me to have somebody
to talk to."

Don't you find everybody remarkably
talkative out hunting ? " asked Dot, mischievously.


No, very much the reverse. They
seem a rum lot of fellows, at least according
to my way of thinking. I never met a
duller, solemn set in my life."

Dot's clear laufh ram? out. It did him

good to hear it. There was something so
genuine and so hearty about her laughter.

Ah ! " she exclaimed, " I perceive that
either directly or indirectly you have been
making the acquaintance of some of our
great people."

Yes," he said, savagely, " they are
very great, at all events in their own
estimation. As for me, I confess I cannot
see wherein lies their superiority over the
rest of mankind. They are intolerably rude
and entirely wanting in good manners."

Then he checked himself suddenly, feeling
that he might possibly be committing
an indiscretion, and that it was scarcely
wise to abuse folk with whom Miss Lankester
was probably well acquainted. For
all he knew, they were perhaps personal
friends of hers.

Forgive me," he said, turning crimson.
I was foroettincf that I miirht be hurting?

Your feelings.

J>

Lie smiled brightly, and when she smiled
Bob could not account for the attraction
her face possessed. With the exception of
the eyes, it owned no really striking feature,
and yet he admired and liked her more
than any girl he had ever seen. His own
sisters were ofood-lookin], but there was a
subtle refinement about Miss Lankester
which he felt was wanting? in their case.
Nevertheless, it was hard to define the
difference. As for Lady de Fochsey, she
seemed positively vulgar in comparison.

Pray don't have any fear of hurting
my feelings," said Dot, with just a touch of
satire audible in her clear young voice.
We are only small fry ; and such exalted
personages as the Mutual Adorationites do
not even condescend to know us. We
regard their many virtues from a distance
"

The greater the better," he interrupted.
But," she went on, more seriously.

you must not condemn all Englishmen
from the specimens you may have seen today.
There are some "  and a tender look
illumined all her face  " who don't live
exclusively for their personal pleasure and
consider it the chief and foremost object of
existence  men whose ideal is not mere
amusement, but something worthier and
nobler, and dio see that work and work
alone can brings out the f]rit and substance
of a man's character."

Bob looked at his companion with
growing interest. She spoke enthusiastically,
and her views evidently coincided
with his own. Young as he was, he had
arrived at a philosophy of life which insubstance
was much the same.

You are right, no doubt," he said.
*' And those are the men I thought and
hoped I should meet over here. Perhaps I
expected too much." And he gave a sigh
of disappointment.

"I don't think so. You forget that
those who represent the hunting-field
mostly belong to the rich and consequently
idle class : a class without professions, and
which has no incentive to bring its higher
faculties into play."

They look down upon a fellow," said
Bob bitterly, "because his clothes are
different from their own, because he has
not been born in England, and for a
hundred and one different reasons, equally
trifling. I am sharp enough to know what
they think of me. They think me an
outsider,' and therefore cut me dead. It's
not pleasant being cut. Miss Lankester,"
he concluded pathetically. " One can't
help feeling it, especially when, as in my
case, you have always been brought up to
look upon these men as brothers, and
people of your own kith and kin."

Never mind," said DoL, soothingly.
Things may very likely improve after a
VOL. II 13

bit, and in any case, you must not form
your opinions too hastily. I only wish you
knew a man "

But she stopped short, and did not fish
the sentence. A bright blush rose to her
face, and Bob wondered inwardly what had
caused it, whether some chance word of
Ais had touched any secret chord.

Good-bye, Mr. Jarrett," she said, after
a somewhat prolonged pause, holding out
her hand as she spoke. " Here we are in
the village. You cannot possibly mistake
your way now, since if you go straight on
for another hundred yards you will seethe
elates of Straighten Court. I turn
down here," pointing to a side road that
branched off at right angles from the main
one.

Good-bye," said Bob, reluctantly, detaining
her little gloved hand decidedly
longer than strict politeness demanded.
I'm tremendously obliged to you."

"What for?" she asked, with the innocence
of a child.

Oh ! for ever so much. I felt most
awfully down in the mouth when you
joined me at that beastly gate, regularly
out of sorts all round, but thanks to your
company, I am pounds better already."

I am very glad to hear it, Mr. Jarrett.
Please keep up your spirits, and don't
forget that we English, as a race, are not
so bad as you seem to imagine."

"I except the fair sex," he replied
gallantly. " I think that English women 
especially English girls, are perfectly delightful."


Oh ! so you have made their acquaintance
already, have you ? "

Yes," he answered, raising his hat with
the courtesy of an Elizabethan knight. " I
have met you Miss Lankester. That is
quite enough for me."

Her smooth, pink cheek turned just a

18*

shade pinker, but otherwise she took but
little heed of the implied compliment. It
did not ruffle her calm serenity.

Dot Lankester was not a flirt. Never
did there a girl exist less coquettishly inclined.
The frank simplicity of her nature
prevented her from seeing in every man a
possible lover ; besides, she was content
to remain as she was. In her youth and
innocence she believed firmly in platonic
friendships. She was touched, too, by
Bob's confession of loneliness. She knew
the big house, with its cold, formal rooms,
and retinue of servants  knew it and
shuddered at it. Some are born for
grandeur, some are not. Dot's idea of
happiness was a small abode, little bigger
than a cottage, and two softly-treading
maids to wait upon her. She did not
covet wealth or the pomp of this world.

And so, she could fancy how dull and
how home-sick the young man must feel.

separated from all his relations, living alone
in that great gray old place.

It was not in her power to do much
for him, but what little she could, she
would.

Before you go, do promise faithfully
to come on Tuesday," pleaded Bob, still
holding her hand in his. " Surely you
need not treat me like a stranger or stand
on ceremony."

She withdrew it gently, and with a little
air of quiet dignity, which told him as well
as actual words that he must not attempt
to take any liberties. If they were to befriends,
the limits of their friendship[) must
not be overstrained, especially on so short
an acquaintance.

"Thank sou. I will tell my father and
mother of your kind invitation, and an
answer shall be sent this evening. Will
that do ? " shortening Mouse's reins.

It will have to do," he said, not feeling

wholly satisfied, 3'et afraid to urge the
matter further.

Good-bye, then," she said again, this
time moving away at a fairly brisk trot.

' Good-bye." And cold and wet as Bob
was, he reined in The Swell until Miss
Lankester's girlish form had completely
disappeared from vision.

Coming to him as she had done, in the
midst of his distress  the only person
during all that day who had treated him
kindly and with commiseration  he felt
ready to fall down and worship at her
feet. His imagination magnified a
hundredfold the service she had performed.

So deeply does a little sympathy sink
into the heart of those whose sensibilities
have been outraged and feelings wounded.

At such times a few kind words will
restore a man's self respect and make him
the friend for life of the woman who utters
them.

Only such words are dangerous, from
the very fact that he is apt to think too
much of them and to take them for more
than they are worth.

In Bob's case, he immediately jumped
at the conclusion, that as a specimen of a
fair, frank Eno;iish eirl, utterly devoid of
conceit or affectation, there were not many
who could compare with Miss Dorothea
Lankester.

He had arrived at the age of four-and-twenty,
and, strange to say, had never
been seriously in love. The Australian
maidens had failed to captivate his fancy,
though perhaps the reason might have
partly been that until now he was, not ina
position to marry. Be this as it may,
those five minutes spent in Miss Dot's
society, her gray eyes, and fresh young
face, put some very strange and novel
ideas into his head.

He himself was startled by their presence

and by the suddenness with which they
took form and shape. Only yesterday he
would have been the very readiest to laugh
at such a thin as love at first sii?ht. Today
he was by no means so sure that
it was as idiotic and absurd as he had
hitherto maintained.

First IMPRESSIONS.

Had our friend Bob not had the good
fortune to encounter Dot Lankester when
he did, he would most assuredly have
sunk in the lowest depths of despair on
proceeding to review the results of the
day, to which he had looked forward with
such a large amount of youthful enthusiasm.
Few pleasures equal the anticipation that
they excite. When they do they are too
short-lived to produce any substantial
satisfaction. Only a few brief moments,
snatched from the dreary waste of life
which we fain would lengthen if we could,
but whose very brightness makes the dull
daily path seem darker in comparison.

Every human being lias an .insatiate 
peril aps a selfish  desire for happiness. It
is all very well to philosophize, to preach
wisdom, moderation and content. When
we are first put into the world, and are
young and sanguine, we all of us expect
something from it. We look upon it as a
kind of fairy godmother, who will certainly
grant our wishes and fulfil our desires. It
takes a good many years to learn the
truth, and the learning is seldom pleasant.
Some never learn it. The lesson is too
hard. They cannot understand why,
instead of showering good gifts upon
their children, the world only robs them
of their small possessions, and takes away
with hard covetous hand, faith, hope and
illusion. What then is left ? Little save
endurance. A growing apatli}- which
renders the buffets of Fate a trifle less hard
to bear, and a conviction of the pettiness
of human strivings, when opposed to the

stern, resistless pressure of nature. A
sense of defeat still hunch over Bob. He
was as sore morally as if lie had been
thoroughly thrashed for an uncommitted
offence. Nevertheless the remembrance of
Dot's innocent face, when she had looked
up into his own and offered to lend him
her cob, exercised a wonderfully soothing
effect upon his over-wrought nervous
system.

It contrived to render bearable what
otherwise would have seemed wholly unbearable.
For his heart was full of wrath
when he reflected upon the reception
accorded him by the master of the Morbey
Anstead hounds and his friend General
Prosieboy. It was useless trying to persuade
himself that he did not care. He did
care, and moreover very deeply ; although
he declared inwardly that he was every bit
as food as these men who affected to
despise him. But it was not enough for

him to know the fact, he wanted them to
acknowledge it also. Besides, was he not
their neighbour, and the owner of lands
broad and goodly ? Surely these latter
entitled him to some consideration.

In short, Bob was very angry, almost
as angry as he had been when he had
caught one of his cowboys red-handed in
the act of torturing some cattle. From
that day until this no such volcano had
racked within his breast. He hardly realized
what tumultuous passions he possessed.
But if he was quick-tempered, he was not
vindictive.

By the time he had eaten a good dinner,
comforted the inner man by flesh, and fowl,
and wine, his anger gradually cooled. He
was thoroughly warm again now, having as
soon as the evening meal came to an endo



taken up his quarters in the smallest and
cosiest sitting-room in the house, and
ensconced himself in a luxurious armchair

before a blazing fire, whose blue
and yellow flames shot merrily up the
chimney licking its sooty sides with greedy
avidity.

A long day's hunting in the open air,
especially when accompanied by an increase
of the physical temperature, gives birth to
a gentle lassitude, which promotes dreams,
and renders a state of do nothing not only
permissible but enjoyable.

A man feels at such seasons that he
has earned a right to repose, and nine
times out of ten gives himself up to
slumber, or, if not to slumber, to quiet
meditation which encroaches on the
borderland of sleep. Bob began by going
over all his experiences since the morning.
He summed up the pleasures and the pains
with almost morbid precision, trying hard
not to detract from the former, or to
exaonrerate the latter. But do what he
would the pains preponderated until, down

the road of thought, his brain travelled as
far as Miss Dot.

There he came to a complete halt,
almost as if he did not care to pursue his
retrospection further, but was quite content
to dwell upon the image conjured up
by her frank face, bright eyes and soft
fresh tints.

And all of a sudden it occurred to him,
like a genuine flash of inspiration, that the
big, desolate house, with its empty rooms,
and uninhabited appearance, might wear a
very different and more home-like aspect if
presided over by a clear-headed, sweet-voiced
mistress. What was wanting at
Straighten Court was a gracious, feminine
influence. He had felt it from the first
moment he set foot inside the hall, but now
there could be no doubt whatever about
the matter. A man alone could not
possibly keep authority in the household,
or make the intricate wheels of domestic

life run smoothly. How was he to order
dinner, and add up the butcher's book, and
keep peace between the maid-servants ?
There was only one answer to such a
question, and that answer was  impossible.
He could look after cattle and sheep, attend
to the farm and stables, but as to ordering
in legs of mutton and sirloin of beef  why
he simply could not do it. He revolted at
the mere thought of entering into such
petty details. As for women, it was the
business of their lives. Man-like it never
struck him that the same " petty details "
which worried him while he scorned them
have rendered many a woman miserable,
and laid a daily burden on her shoulders
under the weight of which she often
groans.

But there is no escape for her. One of
the chief uses of a wife is to lay the blame of
everything that happens at her door. And
for this reason, of all luxuries she is the

greatest. It is so easy and so nice to be able
to say in a loud, chiding voice, " My dear, it
is your fault. I told you to do it," or, " Why
the dickens have you made such a regular
mull of things all round ? "

The responsibility is shifted, very conveniently,
and the poor " luxury " can only
mumble feeble excuses and in her turn
try to implicate Mary Anne or Susan Jane.

Bob had had about ten days' housekeeping,
and already he wished to resign
the situation. He told himself that with a
nice little wife sitting opposite, even
English dinners might prove enjoyable.
His imagination could not conceive of Mrs.
Eobert P. Jarrett's fascinations being put to
a greater test, but he believed Dot would
emerge from the ordeal triumphant. True,
he was very young to think of marrying ;
indeed, up till now, he had always been a
staunch advocate of the theory that men
should have their flings  and a i2"ood one

too  before settling down to jog-trot
matrimony.

But it is astonishing how a pretty
face and good eyes will revolutionize the
most strong-minded male's theories, crumbling
them to the very dust with lightning-like
rapidity. They can alter a man's whole
train of reasoning in a few seconds, and
more wonderful still, make him advance an
entirely new line of argument. No deserter
in action could possibly change front with
greater speed or make m-ore plausible
excuses for his conduct.

Bob, who hitherto had professed to be a
confirmed bachelor, felt suddenly convinced
that the proper thing to do was to marry a
girl directly sou saw one who you thought
worm suit you. Only fools shilly-shally
under such circumstances.

The funny thing was how, after five
short minutes' conversation with Dot, he
should have arrived at so momentous a
VOL. II. 19

conclusion as to believe that lie had certainly
discovered his affinity, and could not
possibly be enchained by any other.

How men can flatter themselves they
know anything of a woman's real character
in such a brief space of time is marvellous,
to say the least of it. And yet that they
do so imagine is seen every day of one's
life, and proved by the ill-assorted and
incongruous couples so frequently met
with. A face endowed by nature with
certain good points, a pink and white complexion
and a nice expression, is quite
sufficient to convince the lords of creation
that they know the proprietor perfectly
well. Just think of it ! 1 how woman !
that masterpiece of caprice, of fitful moods
and sudden impulses ; that coy, uncertain,
changeable creature who does not even
pretend to know herself, and who admits
the variability" of her character.

Oh ! men, beware of your passions.

They render you blind as the veriest mole
that ever burrowed earth. For fully an
hour Bob sat there musing rapturously on
Miss Dot's perfections. Then by degrees a
sleepy inclination stole over him. At last
he made a vigorous effort, and risings from
the arm-chair, laid aside his pipe and went
towards the writing table. It was sometime
since he had written to his mother,
and she would be eettinf anxious if she did
not hear from him. Therefore he sat down
and inscribed the following letter ;

Dearest Mother,

I sent you a hurried account of
my uncle's sudden death and the altered
circumstances in which it left me. Even
now I can scarcely realize all that has
happened, or appreciate what I suppose
most people would call my good fortune.
I need not say that I wish you and my
brothers and sisters to share in it. It

19*

is unnecessary attempting to describe
Straighten Court to yon, because of course
you know it well. I will only mention that
in size and grandeur it far exceeds my
expectations. Indeed, I often think I
should like the place better if it were not
quite so big. Ten days have elapsed since
my arrival, and I begin to doubt if I shall
ever settle down. Everything seems so
new and so stran(]fe  forgive me if I add
so dull and so formal. There is a want
of freedom here, a stiffness and a conventionality
which produce a stifling effect
upon me. People all seem to jog on in
one little narrow groove, from which they
either cannot or will not emancipate themselves.
The consequence is there is very
little real independence, such as we see at
home ; the ladies and gentlemen are very
much to be pitied in my opinion ; as far as
I have had an opportunity judging, they
are mere slaves to their establishments,

their institutions and their bodily comforts.
They are like a flock of sheep ; if one treads
a particular path they all follow, however
inconvenient and ridiculous it may be.
Appearances are evidently a great deal
studied in this country ; the verdict of the
world carries much weight, yet in curious
contradiction to this fact, the upper classes
seem going to the dogs altogether. From
what I gather, their morality is at a very
low ebb. Even dukes and duchesses fissure
in the Divorce Court. There is a famous
case going on now, some of the details of
which would simply horrify you. The men
here have no veneration for women ; it is
dreadful the way they speak of them, and
yet I am informed that in fashionable
society the women deserve all they get.
But whether they do, or whether they
don't, it seems to me a mean, unmanly sort
of thing to go about backbiting the poor
creatures. You will think I have turned

very censorious, so now for a change of
subject. I went out hunting to-day for the
first time ; the sport is a grand one ; I
don't believe there is another that can
compare with it, and yet it seems odd too,
wherein the pleasure consists of chasing a
little red animal, and running the risk of
breaking your bones, if not your neck, in
the pursuit. But there are some things
that don't bear analyzing and, thank goodness
! fox-hunting is one of them. May it
never be picked to pieces by a herd of
dissecting critics, for when it ceases to
exist England's day will be done, and she
can take a back seat among the nations ;
so much for the glorious chase. You see
what an enthusiast it has made of me. But
the field ! the people ! those genial, jovial
squires whose acquaintance I so longed to
make ; words cannot describe the insolence
of their manners towards an unoflendiufT
stranger. To tell you how they treated

your first-born, mother dear, would only
pain you. Therefore I pass over my reception
in silence. Suffice it that all my
illusions are gone, I fear me, never to
return. The question is, whether I shall
be able to live amongst these people. And
this brings me to an important point.
How strange it seems having to communicate
one's plans by letter. At present it is
horribly cold over here, and later on the
climate becomes, if possible, worse. Now
what I would propose is this. In the
spring I must certainly return to Australia,
if only to wind up affairs and hand over
the farm to Dick. Instead, therefore, of
you and the girls joining me at once,
leaving warmth and sunshine and coming
to frost and fogs, I am of opinion that it
would be far wiser to defer your journey,
until the winter is over. Then we might
all travel back together. What do you say
to this idea? To tell the honest truth, I

feel as if my life here were an experiment.
I may or I may not settle to it. In two or
three months' time I should be in a better
position to judge whether you and the girls
are likely to be as happy at Straighten
Court as at home. We have been colonists
so long that frequently I have misgivings
as to our ever succeeding in converting
ourselves into fine gentlemen and ladies
of the orthodox type. One needs to be
brought up to it. To break up our dear
old home before we are perfectly-certain
the new one will suit us, appears to me an
imprudent act. For myself, it is quite on
the cards that you may see me, at anytime,
return unexpectedly. I feel awfully
homesick already, and miss you all most
dreadfully. I never thought it would be
possible to get so dead tired of one's own
society. Nobody has condescended to call
upon me so far, except a couple of parsons,
who both immediately begged for subscriptions

to various charities. The County
people seem a very stuck-up lot. I don't
wonder you preferred my father, and
showed your good sense by running away
from them. And now, dear mother, I am
very tired and very sleepy, and must leave
off. Give my love to Belle and Tot tie, and
the little ones, and tell Dick from me that
I trust to him to look after you well in my
absence.

Ever your affectionate son,

Robert P. Barrett."

Not a word of Miss Lankester. Something
made Bob shy of mentioning her
name, even to those he confided in most.

And yet he felt as guilty as if he were
concealing a secret of vital importance.
He re-read his letter, and made some
trifling corrections. But when he came
to the end a sudden impulse urged him
to add :

"I forgot to tell you that I am giving
my first dinner-party tomorrow night. It
is almost absurd to call it by such a name,
since the company consist only of a Doctor
and Mrs. Lankester and their daughter.
They live in the village, and are my nearest
neighbours."

Bob perused this postcript with considerable
self-approbation. It satisfied his
conscience and yet revealed nothing. He
felt proud of having handled such a
delicate matter with so much skill, for if,
at any future time, there should be anything
to tell, then he flattered himself that
he had paved the way for telling it. At
least the name of Lankester would not
burst like a bombshell upon the family
circle.

As he sealed up his letter Charles
brought in a note on a silver salver.

It was from Dot.

The contents were brief enough.

o

Dear Mr. Jarrett,

My father and mother wish me
to thank you for your kind invitation, and
to say that we shall be very pleased to dine
with you tomorrow at half-past seven.

Hoping you feel none the worse for
having got so wet, believe me,
Yours sincerely,

Dorothea Lankester."

Only a formal note of acceptance, worded
in polite but distant language, and yet Bob
gazed at it with rapturous admiration.

What a pretty handwriting she wrote!
so clean, and neat, and thoroughly feminine.
He liked the way she crossed her t's and
dotted her i's ; there was a deal of character
about them. And then he took to speculating
how the signature would look if it
were signed Dorothea Jarrett instead of
Dorothea Lankester.

Lankester was a fine, high-sounding?
name. The sort of name just suited for
the heroine of a novel, but for all that
there was something very pleasing about
Jarrett.

D. for Dorothea, and J. for Jarrett went
well together  very well, he considered.

So, with his head stuffed full of strange
new thoughts, this hitherto sensible young
man went to bed, and  dreamt of Miss
Dot?

Not he.

He was far too tired and stiff to indulge
in any trance-like visions.

The dun cob, the gray eyes, the frank,
innocent face, all faded from his mind as if
they had been a mirage, and settling down
between the sheets he slept like a top.

GETTING UP A FLIRTATION.

Punctually at half-past seven next morning
Bob was roused from his dreamless
slumbers by Charles, who, after tapping at
the door and receiving no response, entered
the room majestically, and began pulling
up the blinds with noisy clumsiness.

Halloa ! Charles, is that you ? What's
the time ? " yawned Bob.

It has just gone half-past seven, sir."
By Jove ! You don't say so."
And before he was thoroughly awake
Bob jumped out of bed, goaded by the
knowledge that he had a journey to take.
After his experiences of the previous day
the indifference to personal appearance
which he had hitherto displayed vanished

miraculously. He was prepared to admit
that there mifht be something in clothes
after all. Those soft snowy leathers and
bright scarlet coats undoubtedly did set a
man off. Until he had actually seen them
with his own eyes he could not have
realized how great an effect they produced.
In fact, all Bob's ideas on the
subject of adornment had undergone a
complete transformation. He was now
filled with a consuming desire to appear
out hunting dressed precisely as his neighbours
were dressed.

Consequently he had decided to run upto
town, and lose no time in ordering a
suitable stock of boots and breeches.
Although he had said as little as possible
about the discomforts caused by his attire,
and the breaking of those elastic straps, he
had been unable to prevent Charles from
acquiring a tolerably accurate knowledge
of the situation ; and Charles had strongly

advised and approved of his going to
London and purchasing a proper hunting
kit without any delay.

I told you afore you went 'hunting 'ow
it would be, sir," he said with a malicious
chuckle. Consequently Bob had studied
the Bradshaw, and discovered that if he
rose tolerably early he could reach the
metropolis a little after eleven o'clock and
return in time for dinner.

So he dressed hurriedly, ate an excellent
breakfast, and by half-past eight was bowling
honor to the station in a light, two-wheeled
cart, drawn by a hog-maned,
fast-trotting pony.

The mornings was fresh and brio-ht.

The bifid, Teen fields on either side of
the hedgerows were steeped in pale, yellow
sunshine, not fierce and glaring as in the
summer-time, but cool, light, clear, and
refreshing to the eye. Every now and
again a swift, dark cloud shadow would

come coursing alonnf their emerald surface,
for a few minutes converting all the vivid
tints into a sombre grey. But as it raced
ahead it was beautiful to behold the glory
of leaf and blade bursting out afresh,
appearing yet brighter and greener for
their temporary obliteration.

Big, black, limpid-eyed oxen stood close
under the hedges, rubbing their broad,
scurfy foreheads against the knotted twigs,
and slowly but steadily boring apertures
in the thick fences with their strong,
polished horns.

Gay autumnal hues adorned the trees ;
red, brown and yellow combined to render
their last span of life beautiful. Their
tall, irregular tops towered up towards the
faint blue sky, and in places where the
leaves had already fallen, revealed the
delicate network of their construction.
As for the birds, they were twittering and
chirping, flitting and alighting, almost as

if the time of year had been March instead
of November, forgetting that the winter

'DO

was approaching with its cruel frosts, cold
snows, and pitiless winds. They recked
not of the future, wee, happy, thoughtless
things ! The present with its gladsome
sunshine was all they cared about,
believing that this one bright day would
last for ever.

As Bob drove along, the cool, bracing
air bringing a healthy glow to his cheeks,
he thought that never had he been out on
such a fair m morning. What struck him
most was the astonishing greenness of everything.
Here was no sign of drought or
barrenness, but everywhere the same
verdant, fertile stretches of undulating
pastures meeting the sky-line and extending
in all directions, far as the eye could
reach. It was a perfect harmony of blue
and green, with a dash of yellow thrown

in to give light to the whole.

VOL. II. 20

Bob arrived at the station in good time,
took his ticket, purchased a morning paper,
and ensconced himself in a smoking-carriage.


He waited thus some minutes, when
befrinnini to wonder why the train did not

DO J

start he put his head out of the window.
Then for the first time he became aware
of a commotion on the platform, which
appeared to be caused by a dapper little
female figure, enveloped in a thick Scotch
ulster, that presently came tripping along
as fast as it could move for a pair of brand
new, and evidently extremely tight, hunting
boots.

I'm late, dreadfully late," cried an
excited feminine voice, speaking in high,
agitated tones. "There was a mistake
about the horse-box. Put me in anywhere
; I'm not at all particular."

Bob had already fled and lit a favourite
cherry-wood pipe. The next moment, to

his no small discomfiture, lie found the
owner of the voice securely locked into
his compartment by a stalwart, red-bearded
guard.

What an idiot that boy of mine is, to
be sure ! " exclaimed the fair one crossly,
apparently too much flustered to notice
that she was not alone, and evidently venting
her wrath by giving utterance to it
aloud. " I declare if he didn't go and take
a ticket for Master ton, when I told him as
distinctly as possible overnight that I
intended hunting with the Gallopers to-day
instead of with the Seldom Kill hounds.
I really think I shall have to give him
warning. His stupidity is too great for
anything."

So saying, she stood up and smoothed
her ruffled plumes, buttoned up her ulster,
and generally adjusted her toilette, the
finishing touches of which had clearly been
performed in a hurry. The train whistled,

an't raovel slowly out of the station. She
was jerked back into her seat, and Bob
half rose to go to her assistance.

The recognition was instantaneous.

Lady De Fochsey ! " he exclaimed.

"Mr. Jarrett!" she ejaculated on her
ride, in well-pleased accents, for Bob's
fresh, good-looking face had already made
an impression upon her ladyship out hunting,
and she was determined to get up a
flirtation, in the hopes that that long deferred
passion might possibly spring into life.
''I do hope you will forgive my forcing
m} company upon you in this exceedingly
unceremonious fashion, but the truth is,
I was so abominably late that I really
had not time to notice whether the
guard put me into a smoking-carriage or
not."

(As a matter of fact, she invariably chose
one by preference, having a rooted dislike
to the society of her own sex, but this

idiosyncrasy lie did not deem fit to
mention.)

Pray don't apologize," said Bob
politely, knocking the tobacco out of his
pipe with an alacrity more feigned than
real.

Oh ! Mr. Jarrett, why did you do
that ? "

I thought you might object to smoke.
Nine ladies out of ten do."

I don't. Not in the least. I assure
you I'm quite accustomed to it. Besides "
casting a languishing flance at him from
under her goldfish eyelashes  " you need
not mind me, surely."

I can't help minding you," he responded
audaciously, having already
decided that if he indulged in a few
flowers of speech, there was not much fear
of his meeting' with a rebuff. " You are
far too charming to be ignored, wherever
you may be."

She smiled encouragingly. This young
man promised uncommonly well ; better
even than she had suspected. She had
feared he might prove shy, but now she
altered her opinion. If there was one thing
she loved in this world, it was a good,
honest, outspoken admission of her charms.
If only her admirers would keep on telling
her that she was pretty, fascinating, divine,
she could forgive them almost any impertinence.
She was not very strait-laced,
but flattery she must have.

'' When are you coming to see me ? " she
inquired coquettishly, in answer to Bob's
remark.

When are you going to ask me ? " he
rejoined, giving up any attempt at reading
the newspaper, and seating himself directly
opposite to her.

I have asked you already, Mr.
Jarrett."

Only in a very general way. I don't

prefer your specifying a day, if you have
no objection."

Dear me ! " lie exclaimed, " low
punctilious we are, to be sure ! Do you
always stand on so much ceremony ? One
is not accustomed to it now-a-days."

Yes," answered Bob gravely, " whenever
there is a pretty woman in the case, I
would rather have five minutes' chat with
her alone than three hours in the presence
of a dozen other men. The fact of the
matter is, I'm covetous, and prefer not
sharing my bone."

Lady De Fochsey was delighted. She
thoroughly enjoyed this style of conversation,
and moreover possessed the happy
faculty of believing that where she herself
was concerned men meant all they said, and
were perfectly sincere in their professions
of admiration.

Oh, you flatterer!" she said, shaking
her blonde head playfully at him, " you are

trying to put me off with compliments,
instead of settling a day for your visit. I
call that too bad."

Such an idea never entered my head,"
protested Bob. " When is your ladyship
at home ? "

I'm alway's at home to my particular
friends."

And may I venture to think myself
included in their number ? "

Now, Mr. Jarrett, you want to
know too much. That's hardly a fair
question."

"Perhaps not," he admitted. " I'll ask
you another one instead. Tell me, is not
Sunday generally supposed to be a good
day for calling, or do your devotions
prevent you from receiving gentlemen on
that afternoon ? "

Oh ! dear no, not at all."
Ah ! I'm glad to hear it. I was afraid
you might have some religious scruples on

the subject." He spoke with just a touch
of sarcasm, which she detected and
resented.

T do not know why you should have
imagined anything half so foolish," she rejoined
tartly. " And as for my religious
scruples, I flatter myself that I possess
neither more nor less than my neighbours.
Perhaps you mayn't believe me, but I
always make a point of going to church
every Sunday morning, if only for the sake
of the example."

One attendance franks you for the rest
of the day, I presume ? " said Bob, with a
laugh.

She recovered her brood humour. It was
a relief to find he was not disagreeably
strict.

Well, yes, it does, I confess."

Ah ! I thought so."

For my part," she said decidedly, " I
can't see the least harm in entertaining a

few amusing people on a Sabbath afternoon."



Neither can I," he acquiesced, quite
approving of the sentiment.

In that case, Mr. Jarrett, I shall expect
you on Sunday without fail."

How long an audience do you grant
your admirers at a time. Lady de Fochsey?
Ten minutes, quarter of an hour ? "

She laughed her little, thin, artificial
lauli.

You shall have a whole hour if you are
good, and promise to come early."

That I certainly will. The instant I've
gobbled my lunch I shall set out."

Do. I live quite close to Straighten
Court, Mr. Jarrett. Only about two miles ;
it's nothing of a walk, and I hope you will
come over often'*

Thanks, you are very kind. And I can
assure you that were the walk ten times as
long I should think nothing of the distance

with such a reward awaiting me at the end
of it."

She put out her foot, and glanced coyly
down at it. It was a very pretty one, and
she was quite aware of the fact, and saw
no reason why other people should not
become acquainted with it too. A clever
woman always makes the most of her good
points, and hides the bad ones. Lady De
Fochsey was not a bit ashamed of her foot,
no  nor of her ancle either. Thank goodness
! they were both symmetrical and
patrician, though her people were nobodies,
and she herself was only in the position of
a poorly paid companion, when Sir
Jonathan had been smitten by her charms.
 " Really, Mr. Jarrett," she said, in honied
tones, " you will quite turn my head if
you will insist on paying me so many
compliments."

It was a regular invitation to repeat the
offence. At all events, Bob, who was no

fool, construed her ladyship's accusation
as such, and construed it aright.

I don't think it altogether fair to lay
the whole blame at my door," he responded,
feeling more and more amused by her
transparent coquetries, and evident desire
to ea: him on.

Why not ? " she inquired with a
simper.

For the very simple reason that if that
extremely pretty little head of yours were
capable of being turned in such a manner,
the mischief must have been done lonj
since. I can only be one of many

sinners'*

Positively, Mr. Jarrett, if you go on
talking in this foolish fashion, I shall have
to impose a fine upon you," she rejoined,
her whole countenance beaming]: with
deliijht.

Any fine imposed upon me by
your ladyship would be rapturously accepted,"

he said, not able to refrain from
laughter.

Then thinking she might wonder at his
mirth, and also that he had administered
enough sugar  at any rate for the present
he added more seriously :

By the-by, where are you going to
hunt to-day ? "

"I? Oh! with the Gallopers. I get
out at the next station "

"So soon?" interrupted Bob, with a
well-simulated sigh.

Yes, you ridiculous creature. So soon,
and what's more, I shan't have any too
much time, as I have to ride nearly twelve
miles to the meet."

I had no idea you were so determined
a Diana. But won't it make a very long
day for you ? " he inquired, wondering at
her energy.

"It would, only, luckily for me, I am
not coming home to-night. A great friend

of mine, a Mrs. St. John, has asked me to
stay at her house this evening. In fact,
that was the principal reason why I determined
to hunt to-day. I wanted to see the
Gallopers, and I also wanted to attend a
private seance, which is to take place
to-night at Mrs. St. John's."

A what ? " echoed Bob, in tones of
bewilderment.

A seance. Surely you must know what
that means."

"Not exactly There are so many
different kinds."

Mrs. St. John is a firm believer in
spiritualism," explained Lady De Fochsey,
and she has invited a well-known medium
down from town, on purpose to try and
obtain some fresh manifestations. Only a
few chosen spirits are to be present."

Do you go in for that kind of thing ? "
asked Bob, thinking what a queer mixture
his companion was.

A little," she answered, dropping her
voice to a mysterious whisper. " Mind
you don't tell anybody. I don't wish it
known all over the hunting-field, but I'm
developing psychic force."

Oh ! indeed, and pray how do you
develop it?"

I can't tell you now. It would take
too long, but I will some other time.
Unfortunately I don't get on very fast."

"How's that? Uncongenial influences?"

Yes, partly," she replied. " The difficult
thiner is that the electric current,
which by many is supposed to be the
foundation of all spiritualism, can only be
communicated in my case by means of a
kindred spirit."

And do you mean to tell me that you
have never come across one ? " asked Bob
incredulously.

She looked up at him with an odd,
uncertain expression.

No, Mr. Jarrett, I have not."

Then the blue eyes dropped suddenly,
and she added hesitatingly : " But  perhaps
 I may now. Who knows ? " and up
went those azure orbs again, with the most
infantine and innocent of looks. Somehow
they seemed to go right through Bob, and
to produce a most uncomfortable sensation,
just as if he were being requested to perform
some action which went against the
grain. He reddened up to the very roots
of his hair, and remained transfixed, as it
were, until her gaze was withdrawn. What
a queer little mortal she was ! He couldn't
make her out at all.

Did she intend to convey the idea that
he was the kindred spirit whose advent had
been expected and looked forward to for
so many years ? His modesty took alarm
at the thought.

And yet she was very pretty in her little,
neat, got-up style, very pretty  and veri.

VERY amusing. nevertheless so embarrassed
did he feel by Lady De Fochsey's words
and more than gracious manner, that it
was quite a relief when the train in which
they were travelling rushed into a station,
and the lady declared that she had arrived
at her destination.

How quickly the time has gone, to be
sure ! " she exclaimed regretfully, gathering
up her skirt, her hunting crop and her
worsted gloves . " I had no idea we were
so near Millingboro' ! It only shows what
an agreeable companion you have been.
Good-bye, Mr. Jarrett ; don't forget to
come on Sunday." And she waved the tips
of her fingers airily, and hopped out on to
the platform before Bob had had time to
recover his self-possession.

Is there nothing I can do for you ? "
he asked, with a sudden sense of relief.
"I will go and see after your horse-box if
you like."

VOL. II. 21

My dear, foolish young man, don't
think of such a thing. Why, your train
starts again immediately. Ta ! ta ! And
don't lose your heart in the gay but vicious
metropolis."

So saying Lady De Fochsey walked
away, and as the train once more moved
off Bob could hear a high-pitched feminine
voice, shorn of all its dulcet and melodious
intonations, scolding away at an unfortunate
groom.

Phew ! " he exclaimed, as he settled
himself in his seat, and once more re-lit
the cherry-wood pipe. " That woman's a
rum 'un, and no mistake. Awful sport,
though, if she weren't quite such a humbug,
and didn't stare at you in such a
funny way. I wonder what the deuce she
means by it." And then he thought of
somebody who, he would stake his life, was
as true and honest as the day ; somebody
who did not look at men in that queer,

equivocal fashion, who scorned petty artifices
and unjustifiable means of rendering
herself attractive, and who, on that very
account, was a hundred thousand times
more so.

Fancy his talkinf to Miss Lankester in
the free and easy style he had at once
adopted when addressing Lady De Fochsey.
He could imagine how wide the gray eyes
would open with indignant amazement.

And now that he was alone, and removed
from her ladyship's fascination, he
even blamed himself for having been so
familiar. The temptation certainly was
great. It takes a very strong man to
resist the advances of a good-looking
woman. He may pick ever so many holes
in her afterwards, but at the time, he can't
help feeling flattered and amused, and if
she gives him an inch, takes a liberal elL
Masculine nature will out.

Furthermore an irresistible sense of

21*

mischief had arisen within Bob's bosom.
It was fun  splendid fun, paying the vain
little woman high-flown compliments and
seeing the avidity with which she swallowed
them ; but, nevertheless, when he came
calmly to review his own conduct, he was
fain to admit that such silly, butterfly
specimens of the female sex could not exist
unless men encouraged them.

It was the perpetual fostering of their
vanity by speeches containing not a germ
of truth, but which were accepted by the
listener in perfect good faith, that was
responsible for so painful and preposterous
a pitch of feminine idiocy.

In his heart of hearts, despite her youth,
position, and personal attractions, Bob felt
repulsed rather than drawn towards Lady
De Fochsey. She represented a type of
womanhood which he both pitied and despised.
And yet he did not for one instant
believe that there was any real harm in

her. She was only silly  very silly and
frivolous. But lie experienced an uncomfortable
conviction, that he had encouraged
her to be even more silly and more
frivolous, just for his own amusement.

Was this right, or gentlemanly, or
honourable ?

He preferred not to answer the question.

For he had sense enough, and good
feeling enough to know that female credulity,
vanity, and folly, all combined, in
the absence of much heart and a total
deficiency of head piece, render a woman
one of the saddest spectacles on the face
of this earth.

As for what lad been said between them
when one came to analyze the conversation,
a single word summed it up.

That word was rubbish  unmitigated
rubbish from beginning to end.

Yet, no doubt, this was the wny pccjle
talked in polite society.

LEFT IN THE LURCH.

Bob returned from town in an extremely
satisfied state of mind. Fortune had
favoured him almost beyond his expectations,
for on driving to Messrs. Taut and
Son's well-known establishment, in order
to be measured for some breeches, he was
lucky enough to find a pair that had just
been returned which exactly fitted him.

These he purchased on the spot, delighted
to have something to fall back
upon during the time his own were being
made. After enjoining haste, he repaired
to another celebrated emporium, and spent
a small fortune in boots, gaiters, &c.

Altogether, the day's expedition proved

a great success, and although quite a week,
if not more, must elapse before he could
array himself in the full glories of a brand
new red coat, still as long as his nether
limbs were suitably cased, he no longer
felt afraid of appearing in the hunting field.
Evvn General Prosieboy would not seem
half so formidable when opposed by boots
and breeches as immaculate as his own.
As for bow-tying, Charles had promised to
give him a lesson, and initiate him into all
the difficulties of that delicate art.

Bob reached Straight em Court just intime
to dress for dinner.

In honour of Miss Lankester he had
given orders for the drawing-room to be
lit up, and to this room he therefore repaired
to receive his guests. The housemaids
had been busy most of the forenoon,
removing brown holland covers, taking up
drugget, and shaking out curtains. Consequently
Bob was unprepared ibr the

gorgeousness now revealed. As he stood
warming himself before the fire, with his
back leanin<2f against the solid marble
mantelpiece, he looked round complacently
at the old-fashioned crimson and silt furniture,
the rich velvet hangings, and elaborately
decorated walls on which Cupids and
cherubim were freely represented. The
style of the whole thing was perhaps rather
florid, but Bob knew very little of the
tenets held by the Aesthetic school ; he had
not been educated up to the sun flower and
the lily, the bulrush and the peacock, and
therefore considered the general appearance
of his drawing-room highly satisfactory.


Of course, if later on. Miss Dot wished
anything changed, or innovations introduced,
she had only to say the word.
In matters of taste. Bob was quite willing
to defer his judgment to hers. Women
knew a <reat deal more about these things

than men. Besides, they had such a
wonderful way of twisting chairs and
tables about, and robbing them of all
their formality. No room really looked
habitable until touched up by a feminine
hand. Perhaps Dot might like to have a
new carpet. The present one, although
handsome, was certainly somewhat too
crude in colouring, and too suggestive of
Joseph's coat. A grand piano also  he
suddenly noticed that the room contained
only a cottage instrument of very antiquated
appearance  she must have one naturally.
It should be the very first present he would
make when  when they were engaged.

Thus resolving, the door flew open, and
Dr. and Miss Lankester were announced.

The blood rushed up to Bob's face as he
went to greet his visitors, and shook the
object of his thoughts warmly by the
hand, feeling that she, at any rate, was
quite an old acquaintance.

"Why, where is Mrs. Lancaster?" he
inquired of her husband, after they too had
gone through the ceremony of handshaking.
" You have not left her at home,
surely ? "

I am sorry to say, Mr Jarrett, that
my wife was unable to accompany us,"
replied the doctor apologetically. " The
fact of the matter is, she is subject to very
bad, sick headaches, and unfortunately one
attacked her this afternoon."

I regret to hear that," said Bob politely,
disappointed at Mrs. Lankester's absence,
since he had been curious to see what
manner of woman Dot's mother was.

"We ought perhaps to have sent and
let you know," continued Dr. Lankester,
but my wife hoped, up to the very
last moment, that she might be able to dine
with you to-night, and so put off sending
until it was too late."

The loss is altogether mine I feel

certain," returned Bob in his most cordial
manner. " But I shall hope very soon to
have another opportunity of making Mrs.
Lankester's acquaintance. Tell her we
missed her much'*

But although he spoke so courteously,
after the first moment he did not seem to
mind doing without the mamma, as long
as he had the daughter. Until now he
had hardly trusted himself to look at Dot.
He had felt so curiously and unaccountably
shy, whilst his heart beat so fast that it
seemed to him as if she must hear it. But
when he had ensconced her in the most
comfortable chair he could find, he
summoned up sufficient courage to steal a
sidelong glance at her. Hurried as it was,
it enabled him to take in all the details.

He could see that she was dressed in
some sort of soft, cream-coloured material,
made hish to the throat, and cut in the
simplest possible fashion. No frills, no

furbelows, no flounces. Perhaps if he had
been entertaining a party of fine ladies,
they might have called Dot's gown skimpy
and old-fashioned. Certainly it displayed
no artificial protuberance below the waist,
or deficiency of stuff above. If it was
skimpy it was skimpy only as regarded the
skirt, not the body. But whatever might
have been its defects, to Bob's mind Miss
Lankester's gown suited the wearer to
perfection.

The clinfTinfT muslin outlined her slight
form admirably, displaying its rounded
curves to far better advantage than the
costliest silk or satin. Above the soft,
creamy folds rose her slender throat, and
shapely, well-poised head, whose stag-like
carriage was full of grace and beaut v, and
constituted one of her chief attractions.

There was no doubt about it, she was
very pretty  prettier even than he had
believed her to be ; whilst the singularly

honest expression of her face rendered it
to him, at least, peculiarly fascinating.
Then he looked critically at her father
standing within a few feet of him. Doctor
Lankester was a handsome man. It was
easy to see from whom his daughter
had inherited her good looks. He had the
same straight, delicate features, the same
colouring, and clear, grey eyes, with large
dark pupils, which in some lights appeared
almost black. Like Dot, he was short
rather than tall, but slender and perfectly
proportioned.

Well, and what have you been doing
with yourself to-day, Mr. Jarrett ? " Dr.
Lankester asked of his host, as soon as the
first bustle of their arrival had subsided.
I suppose you did not go out hunting.
The meet was a long way off."

It was," answered Bob. *' And therefore
I profited by the opportunity to take
a run up to town."

Indeed ! And how was town looking ? "

Simply filthy. When I left here about
half-past eight o'clock this morning it was
the most lovely day imaginable  a bright
sun and a blue sky  but as we neared
London a dense curtain of io arose,
which grew thicker and thicker every
moment. As for the atmosphere, it was
laden with smuts, dirt, and every kind of
abomination, which got into my eyes,
down my throat, and up my nostrils. I
never was more thankful in my life than
to get back to fresh country air that did
not poison one's lungs. Phew ! I can feel
it now."

And yet people who live in London
don't seem to mind the foss one bit,"
remarked Dot.

"I suppose tlie} get accustomed to
them," returned Bob. " But it would
take me a very long time to become
acclimatized." And as he spoke he beiran

to cough, the impure air to which he was
not habituated having evidently irritated
his throat to a considerable degree.

Dot looked up.

Have you got a cold, Mr. Jarrett ? "
she asked with concern.

Yes, I believe I have managed to catch
a slight one. Somehow or other I have
felt shivery ever since yesterday's wetting."

Then you should take care of yourself,"
said Dr. Lankester in a kindly, but
semi-professional manner.

"Too much bother," answered Bob
lightly, with all a strong young man's
disdain of coddling. " I never think anything
of a cold. Besides, it's really
nothings. Not worth talking about."

But as he said the words, he coughed
again, and this time worse than before.

Doctor Lankester glanced at him, and
saw that he was flushed, and showed every
symptom of having contracted a chill.

Very likely not," lie said quietly.
But you must remember, Mr. Jarrett, that
you are not used to our English climate.
It is a very treacherous one, I assure you,
and few people can afford to take liberties
with it. The winters are often extremely
severe, especially of late years, when in
some parts of the country the thermometer
has registered as many as twenty degrees of
frost."

The conversation was here interrupted
by the entrance of the butler, who
announced that dinner was ready. No
Englishman is ever indifferent to this
acceptable summons, and Dr. Lankester at
once ceased talking, and waited politely for
his host to make a move.

Bob gave his arm to Dot, regretting that
he had been unable to provide an agreeable,
elderly lady for her father.

It is so good of you to come in this
sort of way," he said apologetically. "I

wish I could have asked some people to
meet you, but the fact of the matter is, I
don't know anybody yet."

I'm very glad you didn't," answered
Dot with characteristic frankness. " My
father and I will enjoy a quiet evening
alone with you ever so much more. You
see," she added brightly, " we look upon
you as a novelty. You can tell us all kind
of things we know little or nothing of,
whereas Mrs. Smith or Mrs. Jones  dear,
excellent people as they may be  only
prattle away about their domestic concerns
with which we are already thoroughly
conversant'

Bob laughed.

I'm so awfully afraid you'll find it
dull," he said.

Dull ! " looking up at him with

sparkling eyes. " That is paying yourself

an exceedingly bad compliment, Mr. Jarrett.

As for me, I am a pretty good hand at

VOL. II. 22

amusing myself. There is a great deal of
enjoyment to be got out of life, if only one
has a sense of the ridiculous and cultivates
the faculty of applying it to everyday
trifles. Besides, you forget that a visit to
Straighten Court is quite an event in our
humble experience."

Why ? Did you not come here often
in Captain Straighten's time ? "

Often ? Xo. We came exactly once a
year. Every spring we were invited to a
formal luncheon at the conclusion of the
hunting season. We invariably met our
clergyman and his wife, whom as you may
imagine we see frequently, and the county
solicitor and his married daughter. This
lunch was evidently a duty ailliir. It could
not possibly be mistaken for anything else.
The conversation was lame and forced on
both sides. We asked after the sport and
the hounds, our host after our individual
health, and how we had got through the

winter. After these civilities had been
exchanged, we fell back upon eating and
drinking. As for poor Captain Straighten,
it was impossible to help pitying him. He
looked so superlatively miserable, and so
infinitely bored. Altogether, the relief
was immense when the festivity came to an
end, and the strain was over. But," she
concluded, pulling up short, " I ought not
to talk in this sort of wav, now that
Captain Straighten is dead and gone."

I am surprised at what you tell me,"
said Bob, who had listened attentively
to his companion's observations. "I can't
imagine how my uncle could have lived so
near to you without getting to be on very
friendly terms."

For his part, he felt convinced that if he
were to see Miss Dot only a few times more,
his feelings would inevitably become something
even warmer than friendly. He was
irresistibly drawn towards her.

"You don't seem to know much of
Captain Straiglitem," said the young lady
seriously. "If you did, you could not
fancy him capable of being on what you
call ' friendly terms ' with people in our
lowly position."

What was he like ? " asked Bob with
considerable curiosity.

He was a very gentlemanly man," she
replied. "Exceedingly quiet and reserved
in his manner, and always remarkably
neatly dressed. Further than that, I can
tell you nothing, except that somehow or
other he invariably contrived to make you
feel that he looked upon you as an
inferior."

By Jove ! " exclaimed Bob, "but that's
exactly the way some of these swells made
me feel yesterday."

"Did they?" said Dot. "Then I can
sympathize with you, Mr. Jarrett, for I
know from experience that it is by no

means a comfortable sensation. I do not
mind a bit on my own account, but I do
mind on father's. He is so clever and well-informed,
and I can't bear to see him
snubbed by people who have not as much
in their whole bodies as he has in his little
finger."

And does not Dr. Lankester resent such
conduct ? "

No," she answered spiritedly. " I have
to resent it for him. Father has far too
large a mind to take notice of trifles."

He has a warm champion, at any rate.
It must be very nice to have somebody to
stick up for one," said Bob. "I only
wish "

But he was unable to conclude the
sentence, for having marched down a long
corridor, they had now reached the diningroom,
and after seating themselves at table,
were soon discussion? an excellent dinner.
The meal passed very pleasantly.

Dr. Lankester was not only a good
talker, but had the rare art of inducing
those with whom he came in contact to
talk also. He would start a subject, and
when it was fairly launched through the
shallows of polite conversation, adopt the
role of listener. Before lonij Bob found
himself describing his life in Australia, the
soil, climate, government and a hundred
different things, in all of which Dr.
Lankester appeared to take an interest.

Dot did not say much ; nevertheless,
from the animated expression of her
countenance, it was easy to tell that her
silence did not proceed from stupidity, but
rather from modesty, youth, and a highly
receptive faculty, which rendered it a
delight to sit still and listen, whilst others
were talking sensibly.

They lingered long over their wine.
Dot had made a movement as if to leave
the gentlemen to themselves, but Bob

particularly requested her to remain.
Consequently it was nearly a quarter past
nine before they rose from the table.

Would you like to smoke a cigar,
doctor ? " asked Bob, " because, if so, we
can go into my little snuggery, provided,
of course, that Miss Lankester does not
object."

Oh ! never mind Dot," he answered
with paternal confidence. " She is quite
accustomed to the smell of tobacco, and
always keeps me company over my post-cranial
pipe."

Upon this, the trio adjourned to a small,
cosy apartment of which Bob had taken
special possession, and which being one of
the oftener used, was about the most
comfortable room in the house. Three
capacious easy chairs were dragged in
front of the fire, and herein they seated
themselves. There was something pleasant
and informal about this arrangement, which

the hard-working doctor, for one, highly
preferred to the red-and-gold glories of the
drawing room. He had had a long day,
and thoroughly enjoyed stretching his
weary limbs before the hearth, and
deliberately puffing away at the fragrant
cigar which Bob had just handed to him.

They were settling down to a quiet,
peaceful evening, when the general
harmony was disturbed by the delivery
of a note fur Doctor Lankester.

lie opened it a trifle impatiently. Calm
and easy-going as he was, the moment
proved inopportune. " Dear me ! '' he
exclaimed in accents of vexation, when he
had read the letter through, springing to
his feet as he spoke. " This is terribly
annoying, and the worst of my profession.
One never can be at rest for two minutes
at a time."

What is the matter, father?" inquired
Dot.

A summons to a bad confinement case.
I must oro at once. The woman's life is in
danger. I wish to goodness people would
give over having babies, or else that they
would time their entry into the world at
more convenient hours."

Poor Doctor Lankester ! He was very,
very tired, else he never would have spoken
in this manner.

"Must you really go?" asked Bob.

Yes, I am sorry to say I must, and that
at once. The case is a very urgent one,
and I should reproach myself for ever if I
allowed my own love of comfort to prevent
me from going to the poor creature's
assistance." And he threw away his cigar,
as if trying to resist temptation.

Suddenly he remembered his daughter.

Dot, my girl," he said, addressing her,
what's to be done ? I shall have to take
the carriage, since every minute is of importance."


"All right, father," she answered cheerfully,
*'I will go and get my shawl at

once."

Stop a bit. Dot. You don't quite
understand the situation. I can't possibly
take you with me."

Why not, father, can you not drop me
on the road ? "

No, I have to go in quite a contrary
direction. The only plan will be for you
to stay here until I can send the carriage
back  that is to say, if Mr. Jarrett has no
objection."

Bob expressed his extreme satisfaction
with the proposed arrangement. He liked
Dr. Lankester uncommonly, but he liked
his daughter better, and looked forward
with delight to a most agreeable icie-a'tHe,

But the youn;] lady did not altogether
appear to relish the idea. A shade of
displeasure passed over her sunny face.

I think that I had better come with

you, father," lie said in the same tones of
gentle dignity Bob remembered her using
once before. " I could wait in the carriage,
just as well as here."

Sto," he replied. '' It would only
fidget me to think that you were there.
Besides, it is quite likely I may have to
send Thomson into town, to fetch medicines
at the dispensary, in which case you might
never get home all night. Leave it to me,
and I will either send the carriage back as
soon as possible, or else order a fly."

I can walk back," said Dot resolutely.
It's no distance, and mv shoes are
tolerably thick."

Evidently the tete-astute was not to
her mind, or else she disliked its being
forced upon her without her giving her
consent.

While this discussion was going on, Bob
stood by, feeling a perfect beast. There
were horses enough and carriages enough

too in his stables, doinir nothings at that
very moment, but he never offered to
produce them for Miss Lankester's benefit.
The single brougham would have conveyed
her most snugly back to her home. Yet
he said not a word.

The truth was, his imagination had taken
fire at the bare thought of setting Dot all

O DO

alone to himself for half an hour, or with
good luck, perhaps even a whole one. He
felt thoroughly ashamed of his conduct. He
did not attempt to excuse it in any way,
but the temptation was too strong to be
resisted, and he maintained an obstinate
silence. Even when once the ijirl looked
appealingly at him, he made no offer of
lending a vehicle. Dot, on her side,
though she knew quite well that there
were any number in the boathouse, was
far too proud to beg for the loan of one.
Only for the first time, she experienced a
kind of hostility against her host. He might

have helped her out of her difficulty, and
he had refused to do so.

Well," said Dr. Lankester, giving himself
a stretch, "there's no peace for the
wicked, and I must be off. Good night,
Jarrett. Thanks for your hospitality."

And am I really to stay here, father ? "
asked poor Dot in consternation.

"Yes, child. I thought we had settled
all that. I will send the carriage back if
I can, but if it is not here by half-past ten,
and I am unable to get a fly, I have no
doubt that Mr. Jarrett will kindly let
one of his men-servants see you safely
home."

I will see her home myself," said Bob
effusively, suddenly finding his tongue, now
that matters were definitely arranged
according to his desires.

All right, then ; I leave her in your
hands." And so saying Dr. Lankester
hurried off, leaving his daughter a prey

to a whole host of curiously mixed sensations.


In many ways the village doctor was a
strangely simple and unworldly man.
Despite his forty odd years, it apparently
never entered his head to think that there
was anything the least unusual in letting
Dot remain by herself, at a tolerably late
hour of niL,dit, in the house of a younfr
bachelor acquaintance who, most ordinary
people would have perceived, admired her
immensely.

He would have been astounded if anyone
had suggested such a tliinc.

But Dot's perceptions were sharper.

Her maidenly instincts rebelled against
the situation.

She knew the innocence and simplicity
of her father's nature, but for once she
wished that he possessed a little more of
that worldly cunning of which her mother
owned so large a share.

She liked Mr. Jarrett very much. He
was very kind, very nice, very polite. But
every now and then she had felt his eyes
fixed upon her in an embarrassing manner,
and once when she looked up, and happened
to intercept their gaze, there was
a look in them which troubled her not a
little.

She could not understand it, and Dot
Lankester was a vounj woman who did
not care for things she did not understand.



AN OFFER OF A "MOUNT."

Bob saw Dr. Lankester out at the hall
door as in courtesy bound ; and for a
minute or two Dot was left to her own
resources. During this time she took
herself seriously to task for her disinclination
to be left alone with Mr. Jarrett.
It really was ridiculous to mind, and it
would be doubly, trebly absurd to allow
him to guess that she experienced any
reluctance. She had already stated her
wish to accompany her father, but since he
had decided otherwise, the best plan now
was to try and appear totally unconcerned,
and altogether at her ease. Even delicacy
might be carried to too great an extent.

Luckily her conscience was free. The
situation had been none of her choosing,
and undoubtedly the wisest course was to
attach as little importance to it as possible.
In this manner did she argue, endeavouring,
by the aid of common sense and calm
reasonings, to make liiht of the whole
business. She succeeded so far that by the
time Bob re-entered the room she contrived
to smother the temporary resentment she
had felt against him, and to all appearances
was quiet, indifferent and self-possessed.
But she did not attempt to commence the
conversation, and for a few seconds a
somewhat awkward silence prevailed. If
Dot's conscience was at rest, Bob's was far
from being so. He could not divest himself
of an inward conviction that he had
behaved traitorously towards his guest.
Moreover he entertained an uncomfortable
belief that she shared the same opinion,
and in her inmost mind criticized his
VOL, II. 23

conduct severely. Well, he must try and
make up for past misdemeanours, and do
all he could to regain her esteem.

Dot had risen from her seat, and was
now standing leaning? with one arm against

DO O

the mantelpiece, in a pose full of unconscious
grace. The bright flames from
the fire cast flickering shadows on her
light dress and grave, downcast face. They
lit up her soft brown tresses with gleams
of gold, and made the small head and
slender pillar-like throat stand out in high
relief against the dark oak panelling.

A thrill went through Bob's frame as he

I

looked at her. She had no positive claim to
beauty, but her air of quiet refinement,
her youth, lier freshness, her total freedom
from coquetry, rendered her in his eyes
the most attractive woman he had ever
come across. He admired her immensely,
and yet he feared her a little. He doubted
the reception his advances might meet with.

Lie inspired an unusual sense of self-distrust
and timidity. Therefore lie resolved
to be more than commonly prudent,
to guard against any hasty impulse carrying
him away, and above all, to do and
say nothing that might directly or indirectly
give the alarm to her maidenly susceptibilities.
Miss Lankester and Lady De
JFochsey were evidently two very different
types of womanhood. The same plan of
procedure could not be indiscriminately
adopted with them both.

At last the silence grew so prolonged that
Bob was constrained to break it.

Will you not sit down. Miss Lankester ?''
he said in studiously correct tones. " You
will abet tired of standing." And he drew
the chair she had already occupied a trifle
nearer.

It must be owned that Dot did not
receive this suggestion very graciously.
Before replying she glanced at the clock ;

23*

then, with a suppressed sigh of impatience,
answered :

'' Yes, I suppose I may as well. The
carriage can't possibly be here just yet."

Bob felt nettled by the remark. It
implied a desire to escape at the very
earliest opportunity.

You seem in a most tremendous hurry
to get away," he said with considerable
asperity. " I am sorry that you should be
so awfully bored."

Dot blushed up to the very roots of her
hair.

Oh ! no indeed," she said lamely, " I'm
not the least bit bored."

Are vou'not ? Then all I can sav is,
your manner belies your words. Is there
nothing I can [do to amuse you ? Don't
you even care to look at books or photographs,
since you appear disinclined to
talk ? "

I don't want amusing, ]mr. Jarrett.

You labour under a mistake in fancying
that I do."

So you said before. But from personal
observation I am rude enough to disbelieve
the statement. If you were contented
where you are, you would not count the
minutes quite so anxiously."

You seem to forget," rejoined Dot,
with an attempt at archness, " that we
country people areearly birds, who become
sleepy and stupid unless we go to roost atour
accustomed hour."

Am] I .to understand, then, that you
retire to rest at half-past nine every day of
your life ? "

Well, no, not perhaps quite so early."

You are tired on this particular evening
? Is that it?"

No, not at all."

Not bored, not tired !," said Bob
musingly. " Then I can only arrive at one
solution."

He waited for a moment, as if hoping
his companion would inquire what it was,
but as she did not speak, he went on
more impetuously : " The fact of the matter
is, Miss Lankester, you still persist in
treating me like a stranger, from whom all
manner of evil is to be expected. Do you
imagine I am going to eat you ? " And he
turned a pair of very reproachful eyes upon
her, whose injured expression seemed to
render her shortcomings painfully apparent.

She gave a forced laugh, and blamed
herself for having been so ridiculously
prudish.

No. I do not Hatter myself that I
should prove a very palatable morsel ; and
as for bc4n<] a stram:][er  were you not one
only quite a short while ago ? "

Yes. It is kind of you to remind me
of the fact," he answered still, " though I
was in no danger of forgetting? it." Then,
determined not to quarrel with her, he

added in a gentler key : " It was my fault,
of course, but somehow or other when you
were so good as to help me through my gate
difficulty, I was foolish enough to imagine
that you were a little more human and
not quite so ceremonious as the rest of
them."

This time Dot laughed outright. His
remarks were extremely naive, and made
her begin to wonder why she had distrusted
him.

Come, Mr. Jarrett, confess. Do I look
very ceremonious at the present moment ? "
lying back in the arm-chair with a gesture
of abandonment, and resting her small
brown head against the cushions, whilst
her eyes shone with fun and mischief.

Both the words and the attitude pleased
him, and took away his sense of soreness.

No, I can't say that you do. But you
did a little while ago, when you were in

two minds about sitting down.

}>

And ("!o you really think me as bad as
the ' rest of them ' ? " mimicking his
aggrieved tones.

I shan't reply to that question, for fear
my answer might offend you," responded
Bob, his face beaming with delight, this
sudden transition to a playful mood making
the blood course like wildfire through his
veins. Then, with a strong effort he
controlled the desire to tell her his exact
thoughts, and said hesitatingly :

Of course you know very little about
me at present. Miss Dot  I beg pardon,
I mean Miss Lankester  but  but,"
beginning to flounder in his speech, " 1
should like to set your mind at rest in one
particular."

What is that, Mr. Jarrett ? I was not
aware my mind was uneasy."

Yes, it is. Excuse me for contradicting
you so flatly, but I can see it quite plainly.
The real truth is, you are afraid of me, and

and," turning very red, " upon my soul
you need not be."

The blush on her companion's face reproduced
itself on Dot's.

I'm not afraid of you  not a bit," she
vowed more emphatically than truthfully,
for she felt humiliated by Bob's declaration,
and by the keenness of his perceptions.

Oh ! I thought you were."

She plucked up sufficient courage to ask,
Why ? "

Because you showed so very plainly
your dislike to being left alone in my
society."

He had been piqued by her conduct, and
man-like could not conceal his pique as a
woman would have done. It might not be
wise to speak out thus freely on so short an
acquaintance, but for the life of him, he
could not hold his tongue.

Dot, however, felt too guilty to attempt
to deny the accusation. She only mar-veiled

at his powers of penetration, having
hitherto flattered herself that she had
managed to disguise her sentiments pretty
well. Either she must have acted her part
very badh% or Mr. Jarrett must be a good
deal sharper than most gentlemen.

Fortunately for Dot, Bob having secretly
enjoyed the confusion depicted upon her
countenance, was generous enough to start
the conversation afresh, and this time in a
different channel. He had no intention of
pressing her too sorely. His object had
merely been to let her see he was not
wholly devoid of observation. She was a
bad dissembler, and in his heart of hearts
he liked her all the better for it. A girl
who could tell stories readily, must have a
flaw somewhere in her composition.

Don't you ever go out hunting, Miss
Lankester ? " he inquired.

In a second. Dot's whole manner
changed. A wonderful thaw set in. All

the coldness and the frigidity vanished as
if by magic. They were on safe ground at
last, and she was her own, natural self
again. The need of defence, which constitutes
a maiden's armour, departed.

Oh ! yes, sometimes," she answered
vivaciously. " But not very often, I'm
sorry to say."

How's that ? "

Father won't allow me to go alone, and
it is only on very rare occasions that he
can steal a holiday."

Is Dr. Lankester fond of the sport ? "

He loves it, when he gets the chance.
Do you know," and Dot lowered her voice
confidentially, " nobody goes better than
father, when he happens to be mounted on
a decent horse, which, however, is not
often. Every one declares what a wonderful
eye he has got for a country, and
how marvellously quick he is in following
hounds."

And do YOU o where he does r "
inquired Bob with interest, though he did
not like the idea of Dot's delicate frame
being exposed to danger.

I used to always," she answered
proudly. " But," stifling a sigh, " the last
year or two poor Mouse has failed sadly.
She is very old and has quite lost her
speed."

Why don't you get another horse, then ?"
asked Bob somewhat inconsiderately.

She looked at him. Even the sharpest
men were curiously dense in some ways.

For the very simple reason, Mr. Jarrett,
that my father is, comparatively speaking,
a poor man, and we cannot afford to
indulge in many expensive amusements.
If we could, we should both go out
hunting a very great deal more frequently
than we do."

In short," said Bob, '' you have nothing
to ride but Mouse."

No, nothing, but I am very lucky to
have her, and it is only when hounds
happen to run really hard, and I hear her
poor heart go pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat, under
me, and have the mortification of seeing
everybody pass me by, that I can't help
feeling annoyed, and envying people who
are better mounted than myself. It is so
delightful to be on a good horse," she continued
enthusiastically, " and not always to
have to think of cutting off corners, and
easing up hills, and walking through
ploughs. Besides, nothing puts one off
one's riding more, than following some
cunning old hand, who knows every gate
in the country, and who pulls up at each
gap in turn, to inquire of the multitude
what sort of a place it is, and then either
gallops swiftly away, or takes ten minutes
making up his mind whether he will or
will not, according to the nature of the
answers received. It ruins a person's nerve."

I should dearly like to lend you one of
my horses," said Bob eagerly. " There are
ever so many more in the stables than I
want for my own use, and I feel sure two
or three of them would carry a lady to
perfection."

Dot's face brightened at the mere suggestion.
She was passionately fond of
fox-hunting, and of everything connected
therewith. Her love of sport was genuine,
and inherited from her father, who came
of a good horse-racing Yorkshire family.
Bob could not possibly have held out a
greater temptation. Nevertheless, she had
many scruples as to accepting the offer so
generously made. To begin with, it would
place her under an obligation.

You are very kind, Mr. Jarrett," she
said gratefully. " More than kind, indeed,
to hint at such a thing ; but I do not think
my father would allow me to ride any one
else's horses. There is always a certain

amount of risk about the proceeding, and
if there was a 2:ood scent, and I crop warmed
up, I could not help ' going ' and doing my
very best to keep with hounds."

I'll take all the risk," he answered.
Come," persuasively, " what do you say ?
If I can succeed in overcoming Dr. Lankester's
objections, will you grant me this
small favour  for it is one, I assure you 
and let me have the pleasure of mounting
you now and again ? "

Dot hesitated before replying. It was
awfully nice of him, he was quite restored
to her good graces, but  ought she to
yield to the temptation however great it
might be, and was ? What was the use of
her cultivating her taste for hunting, when
the circumstances of her life were such
that in all probability she would have very
little opportunity of gratifying it hereafter.
And then Dot's imagination wandered faraway.


Well, what do you say ? " Bob asked
anrain. " Can't you make up your mind ? '*

She looked lira straight in the face with
clear and kindly eyes. She was touched
by the sincerity of his offer.

I don't know what to say, Mr. Jarrett,
except to thank you for your most generous
proposition."

But that is no answer, Miss Lankester.
None whatever."

It is the only one I can give at the
present moment."

May I speak to your father ? Have I
your permission ? "

I  I  think you had better not." And
she began twisting her pocket-handkerchief
about.

But in spite of these words, Bob could
see by her manner that she was yielding.
If he pressed the point only a little more
he would overrule her objections ; and
then  what cross-country delights, what

feats performed together, what long,
delicious rides home in the frosty twilight !
His pulses thrilled at the mere thought of
them. There would no longer be any
question of scheming to obtain a miserable
half-hour of her society. And when she
was pleased and amused, and owed her
pleasure and amusement to him, perhaps
she mio'ht orpow to care for him a little bit.

q" Tc-Mi'iQ) -4*

VOL. II.



BOB MAKES A BAD USE OF HIS OPPORTUNITY.

Can even the best of men help their
thoughts being selfish, especially when
their passions are aroused ? It is questionable.
At all events, there was a leaven of
self-interest in those that instantaneously
rose to Bob's mind. He could not refrain
from realizing that in benefiting Dot, he
would benefit himself a hundred thousand
times more. Consequently he grew increasingly
urgent.

"I shall attack your father the very next
time I see him," he said decidedly. " It's a
downright shame for you not to have a
good horse when you ride so well, and are
so fond of hunting."

His energy and determination quite
carried Dot away. She felt as if it were
almost impossible to resist them, when
directly subjected to their influence ; for
there are qualities which, when displayed
by one of the opposite sex, possess a
strange power of subjugating a woman,
even against her better judgment. She
likes to find all her objections answered,
all her scruples overruled just now and
again. It makes her say to herself ;
Well ! I have done a foolish thing, but
it really was not my fault. I had no
choice left me."

So instead of sticking to her colours, Dot
deserted them basely, and said with a faint
smile, for she was conscious of her weakness,
and condemned it :

I am afraid that if I let you have your
way, you will spoil me altogether, Mr.
Jarrett."

Spoil you! " he ejaculated. "By jingo!

24*

I only wish I had the chance. Should you
object to being spoilt by me, Miss
Lankester ? "

The question slipped out almost before
he was aware of it, and then he could have
bitten off the tip of his tongue, in his fear
of having gone too far.

It was almost a relief, and yet  with the
contrariety of masculine nature, he could
not help feeling vexed as well, to find no
reply forthcoming. Indeed, Dot appeared
not to have heard the interrogation. Her
face assumed an anxious, listening: expression.


"Hark," she said, ' is not that the sound
of wheels ? ''

No, I don't hear anything," rejoined
Bob shortly, wishing the expected conveyance
at the bottom of the sea.

I am almost sure it was the carriage,"
she said uneasily.

Oh ! never mind if it is. It is so

jolly sitting here talking, and there's no
hurry."

She began moving restlessly about the
room. Presently she said, unable to control
her impatience any longer ;

Mr. Jar ret t, I feel certain the carriage
is here. Would you mind ringing; the bell
and asking ? "

It was impossible to refuse so direct a
request. Bob reluctantly did her bidding,
and when the man-servant appeared, it
seemed that Dot's ears had played her
false. No vehicle had arrived.

Are you sure ? " she asked incredulously.


Yes, miss, quite sure. I looked out of

the 'all door myself just 'afore I came up."

"It's very odd," she said, rising to her

feet as soon as Charles had withdrawn.

Something must have happened, or else

father has forgotten all about me.

)>

That's not the least likely," said Bob.

Daughters can't be ignored altogether so
easily."

*' Well, anyhow, I must be going*'

He felt provoked by her persistence. It
showed him plainly that he had not
succeeded in setting her at ease.

Without exception," he exclaimed, half
in jest, half in earnest, "you are the most
fidgety and tenacious person I ever
encountered."

Thank you," she replied, dropping him
a mock courtesy. " Anything else ? "'

May I ask, Miss Lankester, how you

intend to get home ?

j>

She walked across the room, and drawing
the curtains a little aside, looked out of
the window. Just at first she could
distinguish nothing, but after a few
seconds she saw the stars shining vith
frosty radiance, and a big white moon
illumining all the heavens with her cold
and mystic rays. It might be a bit chilly

out of doors, but at any rate there was no
fear of rain. The night was calm and
still, the lawn already whitening over with
silvery hoar frost. Her resolution was
taken without delay. There could be no
reason why she should wait any longer.

1 shall walk."

By Jove ! No, that you shan't," he
protested.

Who is to prevent me ? " a spirit of
opposition rising within her breast.

I will. If you are really in earnest
about going, my brougham is of course at
your disposal."

Thank you very much," she rejoined,
in tones which he could not help fancying
conveyed a touch of reproach, " but it is
too late  now."

Without doubt, there was an emphasis on
the last word. The blood flew to his face.

Spare me," he cried, with impetuous
self-accusation. " I know quite well what

a beast I have been, and that 1 ought to
have ordered out the brougham ever so
lone a<]jo."

There was no law to render the action
obligatory" said Dot coldly.

Perhaps not, but I knew that you did
not like being left here, and wanted to get
away."

You need not blame yourself, Mr.
Jarrett. I stayed by my father's wish."

Yes, but I did all I could to keep you.
There ! now the murder is out." And Bob
gazed penitently at her. " Had I chosen,
I might have helped you out of your
difficulty in a second."

No doubt he had his faults, but he was
a good fellow, and honest to the core. She
could not feel angry with him for long,
especially when he looked so contrite for
what, after all, was only a small offence.
Besides, it was making a mountain out of a
molehill.

It seems to me," lie said pleasantly,
that if you have failed as a host, I have
failed as a guest, so we may as well cry
quits, and make our peace. Good-bye, Mr.
Jarrett." And she held out her hand.

You are not going to walk home,
surely ? " he said.

Yes, I am. It is only a step, and
nobody will run away with me."

I can't possibly let you go like this,"
he expostulated in genuine distress. " Do
wait a little longer."

Out of the question. It has already
struck half-past ten, and mother will be
wondering; what has become of us. She
does not know that father may have to
spend the night away from home."

Bob admitted the force of this objection,
and accompanied his companion down the
corridor that led to the hall. As he passed
a hat-stand he seized his hat.

What is that for ? " asked Dot.

*' To put on my head. I am coming
with you."

Oh, no, indeed, Mr. Jarrett ! I can't
allow you to do any such thing. You have
been to London to-day and are certainly
tired, and have a bad cold into the
bargain."

Excuse me, Miss Lankester, but you
must let me have my own way in this. I
have failed in my duty as a host once  you
yourself have just said so  and I hope it
may be a long time before I make a similar
mistake."

Dot was in consternation. To use a
vulgar simile, she felt that she had only
jumped out of the frying-pan into the fire.
And yet there was an air of decision about
Bob which effectually prevented her from
indulini]f in anv further remonstrances. It
was quite clear that whether she approved,
or whether she didn't, he intended to abide
by his decision. She liked him, too, in this

authoritative mood. The manliness of his
nature came out.

She actually let him wrap her up in one
of his great coats, and stood quite meekly
while he buttoned the buttons. He was
awfully slow about it, but she did not
attempt to hasten his movements. For the
time being he had gained a certain mastery
over her.

But when he handed her a warm shooting-cap,
and insisted upon her putting it on,
she once more found her tongue. He was
so portentously serious that she felt bound
to make light of the situation.

I declare," she said, looking saucily up
at him from under the projecting peak of
her head-gear, " you have turned me into
a regular man. How do I look ? Like a
master ? "

'' Look ! " he echoed, his head going
from him all of a sudden, " as you always
dc  charming."

She turned her head away, and said
petulantly :

For goodness sake, Mr. Jarrett, don't
treat me like a fashionable young lady, to
whom compliments are as the salt of existence.
I hate them  nasty, insincere
things."

But they are not always insincere,"
responded Bob in self-defence.

In that case, they are superfluous. And
now shall we make a start ? "

Bob's spirits felt thoroughly damped.
He did not offer to make any reply to this
speech. One thing was clear: Dot Lankester
wholly differed from the majority of
her sex. She was not to be approached
through her vanity. A strange girl this,
who grew positively angry when men professed
to admire her, but how charming a
one to the lucky fellow whose admiration
she might deign to receive. Bob wondered
if the " lucky fellow " existed, and grew

miserable at the mere thouclit. Then he
comforted himself by arguing that she was
so young. She did not look a day over
eighteen, and it was not likely in this quiet
country village that anybody had already
snapped her up. Besides, she did not seem
like a girl given to matrimony, but very
much the reverse. He should not take his
rebuffs quite so deeply to heart if he could
but make sure there were no rivals in the
field. The very idea of some great, hairy
man (other than himself) having the right
to put his arm round Dot's waist, and kiss
her little, flower-like face, filled him with
anofer and disgust. An Australian micrht
possibly be worthy of her, but an Englishman
 never !

Meanwhile they walked down the drive
in absolute silence.

The spreading trees with bare, black
twigs formed a canopy over their heads,
through whose interstices shone the darkling

sky, deep indigo in hue ; whilst the
cold stars glittered like diamond facets,
and the big moon cast sharp shadows on
the path, which made the white road even
whiter, when contrasted with their sombre
outlines.

Night, with its still serenity, had hushed
mother earth to sleep, and the stars and
moon and the pure vaulted sky guarded
the weary dame's slumbers. Peace descended
with the mystic frost, that touched
the trees with ghostly fingers and fantastically
laid on every blade of grass a hoary
rime which would have done credit to a
fairy's web.

Peace, and silence, and solemnity  these
were the characteristics of the hour, and
yet Bob's poor, passionate heart, that joy
or curse of human beings, beat with
tumultuous beats. Scarce could he stifle
his emotion. The calm of his surroundings
failed to quiet it. For  and a

great yearning flooded his being at the
thought  he was so near to her and yet
SO far !

So near  that if he stretched out his
hand, he could have taken hers in his ; sofar
 that in giving the slightest expression
to his sentiments, he at once raised up a
barrier between them. Once as they
walked along, she stumbled over some
fallen stone which lay in the road, and he
offered her his arm. Oh ! how he loosed
for her to take it  to feel her little wrist
quivering upon his sleeve.

He dared not speak, he only shot one
mute glance of appeal from his veiled and
troubled eyes.

She refused the proffered member with a
stately gesture of the head.

Bob literally trembled as he walked by
her side. It was ridiculous. He had
never been afraid of any one in his life
before. There were some who even

accused him of beintr an audacious flirt,
and yet this little slip of a girl, who was
hardly more than a child, rendered him as
timid and as hesitating as a hare just
startled from its form. If this was love,
surely he had taken the epidemic in a very
disagreeable form ; and if it were not love,
what else could it be ?

They continued down the avenue, until
they passed through the iron gates which
separated the Park from the village.
Emerging from the shadow of the trees
a flood of brilliant moonlight seemed them,
converting every homely red-brick cottage
into a veritable work of art.

It enveloped Dot's girlish form in one
sheet of radiance, and lit up each feature
of her expressive young face. Her companion's
attention was arrested by its rapt
and dreamy look. If his thoughts had
strayed, hers had evidently wandered also,
for she never even noticed his steed v gaze,

or heard the sigh with which, at last,
he forced himself to withdraw his eyes.

The influences of night prevailed. A
spell descended upon them both, though
it worked differently. He thought only of
her. She ?  Ah ! who can travel the paths
along which a maiden's fancies meander ?

Soon they stood under the rustic porch
of Dr. Lankester's house.

Then Dot woke up from her dream, and
gave a long, soft sigh.

"Is anything the matter?" said Bob
anxiously. " Are you cold ? '

Not a bit, thank you. I can't tell you
how I have enjoyed the walk home*'

I'm glad to hear it," he answered,
feeling flattered even in spite of the conviction
that her enjoyment was not attributable
to him.

"It has been such a lovely evening,
and  "lowering her voice, 'I was thinking


5)

VOL. 11. 25

Of whom ? He burned to ask the
question, but did not dare.

She gave herself a little shake as if to
shake her spirit free of some enchantment.

It is too late to ask you in," she said,
but I hope you will come another time."

"You have only to give the invitation
for me to accept it. Miss Lankester."

Then, as they were on the point of
parting, her conscience smote her for
having behaved a trifle ungraciously to
him. If only he could be brought to
understand, all would go well ; but she
could not offer her undivided friendship
until that point had been reached. In the
meantime she was sorry to have rendered
his evenings less agreeable than he had
anticipated.

She guessed this to be the case from his
altered and downcast manner.

Good night, Mr. Jarrett," she said
frankly. "I am afraid I have proved a

very bad companion. Will you forgive me
all my misdemeanours ? "

His lace brightened instantaneously.
The demand was put with such an air of
pretty penitence.

You have not got any shortcomings forme
to forgive."

' Under the circumstances, you are very
indulgent," she answered with a smile.

That smile was fatal. It made him
force all his cood resolutions. The blood
rushed up to his boyish face, and he said
impulsively :

It is pleasure enough for me to be
near you, even when you don't care to talk.
I should never ask for more."

And then he was frightened  frightened
at the effect his words would produce. Do
not laugh at him. The truest wooers are
often the most bashful.

Moonbeam after moonbeam poured into
the porch, as they stood waiting for the

25*

door to be opened. By their light he

could see her eyes narrow, the delicate

brow contract, and the whole expression

of her face change. He cursed his own

imprudence.

Mr. Jarrett," she said in a constrained

voice, " you expressed a wish that you and

I should be friends. Please understand

distinctly that I cannot undertake to

remain so unless you give up the habit

of making flowery speeches on every

possible and impossible occasion."

I  I'm awfully sorry," muttered Bob
in abject confusion, wringing her hand ina
vice-like grasp. " Good-bye, I won't doit
again, and  and  I shan't forget about
the horse," striding hastily awa3\

The horse ? Did he think he could
bribe her with that?

Mr. Jarrett," she called after him, in a
clear voice, " wait one minute, please. I
have something to say."

Yes," stopping short, " what is it ? "
About your kind offer  I  I can't
accept it."

"You cant! Why not?"
Because I feel convinced that it would
be better for me not to do so."

And with this exceedingly unsatisfactory
reply Dot vanished into the house, leaving
Bob to trudge back to Straighten Court in
the worst of humours and the lowest
possible spirits.

For he saw quite clearly that the fortress
was not to be carried by a coup de main.

In his ardour he had imagined there
would be no delay  his courtship would
go smoothly. He would pay Miss Lankester
a great deal of attention, to which
she would respond in a suitable manner ;
then propose and be accepted. That was
how the course of true love should always
run, and how he had mapped it out in his
own mind.

And now, instead of a swift impetuous
channel, coursing madly down towards the
smiling ocean of matrimony, he saw nothing
but a little devious stream, blocked
by every kind of impediment. His ideas
had been subjected to a very severe shock.

He realized that Dot Lankester could
not be " rushed " into marriage. He had
been in far too great a hurry. Instead of
going to work cautiously, and inspiring her
first with confidence, then friendship, and
finally with the desired passion, he had
made a mess of the whole business, and
done nothing' but establish a feelings of
constraint which would now take several
days, if not weeks, to efface. In short, he
had frightened her. He knew it by the
tone of her voice and the look of her eyes.
And as Bob retraced his footsteps he
blamed himself bitterly for having made
such exceedingly bad use of the opportunity
that had been granted him.

A SUNDAY CALL.

Whether a hapless young man be in love
or not the world has to go on as usual.
He must get up of a morning, eat, drink,
and, to a great extent, pursue his usual
avocations. The passion which consumes
him is sedulously hidden from the vulgar
eye, as something too sacred for it to gaze
upon. His sufferings are borne heroically
and in silence.

A promise made to a lady, even although
that lady be not the object of your affections,
is entitled to respect. An honourable
gentleman feels himself bound to fulfil it,
whether his inclinations do or do not
approve. Having pledged his word, there
is no coins back.

This conviction was strong upon Bob's
mind when Sunday afternoon arrived.
Since meeting Lady De Fochsey in the
train she had occupied but a comparatively
small share of his thoughts. Nevertheless
he remembered his appointment.

Consequently, he dressed himself with
extra care, and, after eating a hearty lunch,
set out on foot for her ladyship's house,
whose locality he had previously" ascertained.
He had gone to church that morning in the
hope of seeing Dot, but Dot for some reason
or other was not present, and he felt the
sacrifice had been vain, and wondered
feverishly when and how he should see her
again. If only he could catch a glimpse of
the doctor then he miiht arrange a dav for
his daughter to ceo out hunting ; but at
present the future was shrouded in
obscurity. He kept contriving all sorts of
plans by which they might meet. Most
successful projects in imagination, and yet

ones that when he came to meditate
seriously upon putting them into operation
seemed to contain some element which
might possibly displease Dot, and were
therefore promptly discarded. Four whole
days had passed since he had seen her. It
appeared a miracle how people could live
so close to each other, and meet so seldom.
And yet he had marched up and down the
road in front of the doctor's house at least
a dozen times. If this were to go on life
would not be worth livings.

Altogether, Bob felt thoroughly disheartened.
Since his immersion in the brook
he had not been well. He could not throw
off the chill which he had then caught, and
although he refused to take any care of
himself, and pooh-poohed the idea of taking
any medical advice, a sense of physical
discomfort added to the despondency of his
mental condition.

But the walk did him good. His way

led through pleasant country lanes, where
the thorny bramble still retained a few red
and yellow leaves, and where bright clusters
of scarlet berries peeped out from the dark
hedge-rows. A sharp frost had prevailed
the night before. In the shade the grass
was still covered by a silvery burden ; but
where the wintry sun rested upon it, there
the rime had disappeared, leaving behind a
faint trace of moisture, which lent freshness
to the herbage and appetite to the browsing
cattle. As a rule the StifTshire roads are
not celebrated for their cleanliness. The
rain that descends lies about in miry
puddles, and takes days to percolate through
the heavy clay soil. But to-day there was
no need to turn np even a trouser hem.
They were bleached quite white and hard,
except here and there where the sun had
chanced to slant down upon them with
peculiar force. The air was still and sharp ;
the sky faintly blue, fading away to a

misty grey where it touched the horizon.
Every now and again as he walked along,
the deep lowing of cattle, or the crisp swish
of grass torn violently from its roots, broke
the silence. Otherwise, scarce a sound was
to be heard.

Before long Bob arrived at his destination.


Lady De Fochsey's house was well
situated on the summit of a gentle incline.
Though by no means large  being, in
fact, little more than a hunting box  it
commanded a fine panorama. Grass, grass,
grass. That was what could be seen from
its bay windows, added to three or four
dark patches on the sky-line, which represented
well-known coverts, half a dozen
church steeples, and as many villages ; the
whole intersected by rows upon rows offences,
some big, some little, but mostly
the former, and all crossing and re-crossing
each other at a variety of different angles.

A great green chess-board, somewhat
irregularly marked out, but whereon all the
motley crowd of players enjoyed themselves
to the full. A country on which the fox-hunter's
eye rested with unqualified admiration
and approval, but in which the
uninitiated could descry nothing except a
series of big, drear' fields, bleak and bare
to a degree, and destitute of all beauty,
save that of space.

Bob marched up a bijou drive, planted
with trees that looked as if they ourht to
grow, but either couldn't or wouldn't, and
rang the bell.

Upon the door being opened he inquired
if her ladyship were at home.

Receiving an answer in the affirmative,
he was at once shown into a small but
luxuriouslv-furnished drawing-room, literally
crowded with feminine knick-knacks
and conceits. Books, flowers, music, bulrushes,
peacock feathers, Japanese fans.

screens, ornamental photograph stands,
china, grotesque monsters, &c., met the eye
in every direction. Last, but not least,
curled up on a white fur hearth rug before
the fire were two fat, wheezy pugs, with
huge blue satin bows tied round their
creasy necks, and, without compare, the
grotesque monsters of all.

Altogether, a room in which evidences of
female folly and female refinement were
curiously blended, producing a mixed
impression on the acute observer.

For a few moments Bob stood with his
back to the hearth  the pugs occupied the
central position, and he could only secure
one corner  familiar izins himself with these
various details, and trains' to determine
where the refinement ended and the folly
began. But this was a point not easily
arrived at, and requiring a much greater
critic on art furniture.

In justice to his taste, he did not wholly

approve of all he saw. lie had a man's
impatience of useless lap-dogs, and pugs in
particular, especially be-ribbon pugs ;
also of flimsy antimacassars, gimcrack
chairs, and little spindle-legged tables, that
had the horrid knack of over-turning on the
slightest provocation. Good, solid, sensible
furniture was what he liked ; not all these
three-cornered, new-fancied arrangements,
which blocked up a room and made people
afraid to move in it. These reflections
passed through his mind as he stood awaiting
her ladyship's arrival. She was a longtime
in coming ; and, impelled by curiosity,
he took to examining the various photographs
so liberally dotted about.

They were nearly all portraits of gentlemen
beloniainc to that class which Dot
Lankester would probably' have designated
as ' masters." The same vacuous expression
of self-content adorned the countenances
of them all. Their hair was parted down

the middle, and beautifully brushed ; their
coats were tightly buttoned over their
manly chests ; a pocket handkerchief invariably
protruded  presumably to let the
public know that the owner possessed such
an article  and in the matter of shirt-fronts,
curls, studs, sleeve-links, watch-chains
charms, rings, gloves and button-holes, they
were simply beyond reproach. As specimens
of what careful and elaborate dressing-can
do, they were " Things of beauty, a joy
for ever." Only not men. At least, so it
seemed to Bob. There was an air of
effeminacy about these mute reproductions
of living objects which made him turn away
from them in distrust. He felt an irresistible
desire to divest the originals of some of
their smoothness and gloss, and meet them
in a fair stand-up fight.

Continuing his tour of examination, he
came upon a photograph of Lady De Foch-
sey  the only female one in the room 

wliicli lie remarked with some wonderment.
She was depicted in full evening
costume, extremely recollected, standing
beside a marble column, with both hands
clasped tragically behind her head, thus
boldly calling attention to the seductive
curves of her graceful figure.

Bob looked long and critically at this
masterpiece of the photographic art, coldly
ascertaining the lady's good and bad
points, and dissecting each feature with
cynical composure. Lady De Fochsey's
eves were fie, her nose small and straight,
her mouth passable, a trifle thin-lipped,
but otherwise unobjectionable. No doubt,
as the world goes, a very pretty woman ;
and yet although he admitted her beauty,
it was a face that possessed no fascination
for him. The expression spoilt it. It was
artificial, unreal and insincere.

He had just arrived at this conclusion,
when a rustling of skirts was heard outside

in the passage. He glanced at the clock.
She had kept him waiting exactly twenty
minutes. Luckily, time was of no particular
importance, else he might have felt
more aggrieved than he did. The afternoon
had to be whiled away somehow.

At the near approach of their mistress,
the pugs began to display a slight animation
outside their own immediate circle of
interests, represented by the fire and the
hearthruo. The youngest and slimmest
half rose from her recumbent position ; the
eldest condescended to cease snoring, and
gave vent to one or two short, snappy
barks, that might mean satisfaction, but
which certainly sounded more like irritation
at the entry of a second intruder.

Lady De Fochsey appeared on the
threshold, clad in an exquisite toilette of
dark blue velvet, which set off her golden
locks, azure eyes, and pink and white
complexion to perfection. She had not
VOL. ir. 26

lived twenty-eight, nearly twenty-nine,
years in the world without learning the
art of making the most of herself.

Bob had promised to come early, and he
had been even better than his word ; inconsequence
of which, her ladyship, instead
of being already seated in state to receive
her Sunday afternoon visitors, found herself
compelled to struggle into the velvet
gown in a desperate hurry and slur over
those last delicate touches of rouge, which,
when artistically applied, added so greatly
to her appearance. Not that the rouge
had been omitted, only her cheeks were
rather more hectic than usual, and consequently
required a subdued light.

But her drawing-room was so arranged
that this could easily be obtained.

A thousand pardons for keeping you
waiting such an unconscionable time, Mr.
Jarrett," she exclaimed effusive, holding]:
out both her white bejewelled hands with

a pretty foreign air of apology. " I was
just finishing a letter to a soldier cousin of
mine, at the Cape, when you were announced,
and thought you would be good
enough to excuse me for a few minutes.
These foreign letters are always rather an
undertaking. One has to cram so much
news into them, and has to rack one's
brains to find the wherewithal."

This letter to the soldier cousin was a
most gratuitous invention on Lady De Foch-
sey's part, but it sounded better than telling
the truth, which would have been

"Ahem! Mr. Jarrett, I'm sorry to have
kept you so long, but I had to go upstairs
and dress, and my frock was awfully tight
and wouldn't meet, and then, just when we
succeeded in fastening it, one of the buttons
went crack, and my maid had to hunt for a
needle and thread to sew it on assail."

Of course the soldier cousin was infinitely
preferable to such a plain unvarnished tale

2r)*

as that. Women were nowhere if they did
not surround themselves with illusion.
All admiration  all love was illusion really,
only of a pleasant kind.

But if Bob had been annoyed by the
delay, he was courtier enough not to show
his vexation, and proved quite equal to the
occasion. He declared to her ladyship
that he would willingly have waited all
day, if only to obtain a glimpse of her.

She smiled benevolently at him, pulled
down the blinds three or four feet, seated
herself with her back to the licht, and
motioned to him to occupy the vacant
place on the sofa by her side. Evidently
she was determined to make amends for
liavimr detained him so lonc.

DEVELOPING PSYCHIC FORCE.

*' There ! Sit down, do," she exclaimed
coaxingly. '' You great tall men seem
such a terribly long way off a poor little
woman like me that I declare it's downright
hard work having to crane one's
neck up at jou. For my part, I never can
talk, unless a person be close to me."

It assists conversation, certainly," said
Bob. " I shouldn't think, though, that
anybody could have the moral courage to
place any great distance between himself
and so charming a lady. I know I can't."
And he plumped down almost on the top
of the blue velvet skirt.

Oh ! you sad flatterer," she murmured

cofjuettislily. " How am I to believe
you?"

By looking in the glass. Surely you
see corroboration of the truth there."

Yes, of several rather unpleasant ones,"
she thought to herself, but she did not say
so aloud.

And what have you been doing since
we last met ? " inquired Bob after a slight
pause.

I have gone through a variety of the
most wonderful experiences, Mr. Jarrett ;
I feel as if I had only just begun to live,
in the proper and enlightened sense of the
word."

Indeed ! That sounds very mysterious.
How did you make so remarkable a discovery
? "

Do you remember my telling you
about my friend Mrs. St. John, and the
seance that was to take place at her
house ? "

"Yes, perfectly. I have the keenest
recollection of it," answered Bob.

Well, I spent the most creepy, delightful,
and blood-curdling evening I ever
spent in my life, and all owing to that dear
man. Monsieur Adolphee De Fidus. Do
you know him by any chance ? "

"Not I. Who is he?"

Impossible. You don't actually mean
to say that you have not even heard of
him. Well, you are behind the times."

*' Very likely. It strikes me one would
have to be uncommonly rapid to be before
them now-a-days. But with all due respect
to your ladyship, you have not yet gratified
my curiosity."

Adolphee De Fidus  isn't it a romantic
name? just the sort of name you expect
great things of  is the head of the powerful
modern school of electrical, esoteric and
spiritualistic psychology."

Dear me ! And what wonders did this

first-class conjuror perform ? " ejaculated
Bob.

"Elevations into space, even of common
objects like a chair or a table," she responded
in tones of intense excitement.
Mysterious rapping proceeding from the
spirits with whom he holds communication,
invisible writing, and many other marvellous
manifestations besides. I confess
that I went to my friend's house somewhat
sceptically inclined, but I came away a
complete convert."

It's awful hard lines upon the poor
spirits," said practical Bob.

In what way, Mr. Jarrett? "

Why, I fancy that one of the chief
ideas of our mortal minds in connection
with a future state is represented by repose.
We associate the hereafter with rest and
freedom from worry. Now, according to
your friend Monsieur Adolphee, the unfortunate
beings who have departed this

world and gone to another, are little better
off than general servants."

"Eeally, Mr. Jarrett. What extraordinary
things you do say."

Well, but is it not so ? These poor
spirits are at everybody's beck and call.
A little shoeblack, cleaning his shoes in the
gutter, displays mediumistic tendencies, and
he may summon the celestial form ; also
the tradesman, also the farmer, also nine
people out of ten. To me there is something
revolting in the very idea."

Ah ! " sighed her ladyship. " You
speak like one who does not understand.
As Monsieur Adolphee truly observed the
other night, ignorance and dulness of the
amer perceptions are our greatest enemies.
I wish you could meet him. He would
soon alter your opinions."

I doubt it," said Bob obstinately.

Oh ! yes, indeed he would. No one
can resist him. He has cultivated this soul

to such an extent that he is now nothing
but a mass of psychic force."

I'm afraid I'm rather dense, but will
you tell me exactly what those words
mean? At present they convey nothing
definite to my mind."

Dear ! how sad ! " exclaimed Lady De
Fochsey, clasping her hands tlieatricall3\

Is it ? I look to you to enlighten me."

Of course, ' psychic force ' means ever
so many things," she explained somewhat
vaguely.

All right," interposed Bob. " I'll take
that for granted."

And it is simply impossible to go into
detail, when one is treating so stupendous
a subject," she went on, wishing she could
but recall some of Monsieur Adolphee's
long words and high sounding phrases.
People must have faith  yes, faith first
and foremost, and then it all comes to
them in time."

Again I must ask you to forgive my
stupidity, but what comes, Lady De
roche."

Oh ! all sorts of things, as I told you
before. It is so difficult to explain, but
clairvoyance, and thought-reading, and 
and spiritual interchanges with the souls of
those who are dead."

"Very jolly if you met your dearest
friend, but quite the reverse if some
horrible wretch you were only too glad to
get rid of kept always cropping up," said
Bob. " Did you receive any messages

from Monsieur Ad I mean from the

spirits."

Yes, several."

"And what sort of messages were they ?"

"Delightful ones. Hoped I was welland
looked forward to seeing me. One
poor man I used to be very fond of in the
olden days sent me quite a long letter ;
and, oh! so beautifully worded."

It is curious that the language should
be the same," remarked Bob. "Do the
spirits ever make any mistakes in orthography
? "

How can you ask such a question ?
It's really quite shameful. I'll not tell you
anything more if you talk like that."

Oh ! yes, do. I want to hear all about
Monsieur Adolphee ; I am an unbeliever
now, I admit, but if any one can convert
me, I feel sure you can." And, whether
by accident or design, Bob's hand came in
contact with Lady De Fochsey's, and she
did not withdraw hers immediately.

Ah ! " she said, " I wish I were good at
explaining things, but I'm not, although
perhaps I may get to be a more worthy
disciple by degrees, for Monsieur Adolphee
says that if only I cultivate my powers
assiduously, and run up to town occasionally
for the purpose of receiving his
advice, in time I "

All of a sudden lie stopped short, and
fixed her eyes rapturously upon Bob, with
the air of one who has just made a great
and exceedingly important discovery.

What is the matter ? " he asked, feeling
rather uncomfortable at being stared at so
pointedly.

Just fancy ! " she exclaimed ecstatically.
You are  yes, you really are "

I am  I really am  what ? "

A medium, my dear boy. Oh ! you
lucky  lucky young man, let me congratulate
you." And in her rapture her golden head
almost sank upon his shoulder, only, as
one side of her fringe felt a little loose,
she had to be careful, and he profited by
the opportunity to edge a few inches farther
away.

Bah ! " he exclaimed contemptuously,
but not politely.

Oh ! it's no use saying ' Bah ! ' " she
rejoined. " The fact remains, and you

can't help yourself. You possess strong
magnetic powers. I can tell by your eyes,
though I don't know yet whether you'll
develop into a medium of the first or only
the second order. That depends chiefly
upon yourself."

"In that case I shan't develop into
either."

But you must. The process is unconscious,
and it may so happen that your
individual will has not much to do with it,
especially if you come under the influence

of a  of a " but as she could not find

the exact word, she broke ofl" short, and
said softly  "Oh! Mr. Jarrett, I am so
glad, so very vers glad. This was precisely
what I wanted."

What are you glad about ? " he asked
somewhat roughly, beginning to wonder
if she had gone ofl' her head altogether.

You don't quite understand at present
but I'll try and make it all clear to you.

Monsieur Adolph explained to nie most
particularly the system by which the
magnetic current is transmitted. It is
enough, he says, for two people who both
possess spiritual aptitudes to meet once or
twice a week, and sit for a couple of hours
at a time holding; hands, and looking
steadily into one another's eyes, for them
insensibly to gain power."

Good heavens ! " ejaculated Bob.
What next, I wonder ? "

But the curious part is this," resumed
her ladyship, with a pensive smile. "It
seems that the process is greatly assisted,
and the cultivation of internal force immensely
facilitated, when the two mediums
are of opposite sexes. For instance  a man
and a woman will arrive at much speedier
results than a woman and a woman, or a
man and a man."

"Yes, I can understand that," said Bob,
with blunt sarcasm.

All ! you are beginning to comprehend
at last," she rejoined, in satisfied tones. " I
thouLflit you would before long;. These
things just require a little explanation at
first starting, but they are not as difficult
as they seem, between two people who are
really sympathetic."

That's comforting, at any rate."

Yer}, is it not ? And now, Mr.
Jarrett, what do you say ? Will you
try?"

"Try what, Lady De Fochsey? You
speak in conundrums."

Firstly, to develop sour higher nature
and kill the baser."

Is that all ? And pray, how am I to
set about it ? "

I'll show you. You have only to do as
I tell you."

So saying she jumped up from the sofa,
dracced the cover off a small rosewood
table that stood in the window, lifted it onto

the hearth rug, and then proceeded to
place two cane chairs one on either side of
it. Bob watched these operations with
amazement.

Stow sit down," she said impatiently.

He did as he was told, too much mystified
to venture on an observation.

That's right, Mr. Jarrett. Give me
your two hands."

Won't one do ? "

No, I must have both."

He held them out obediently, feeling
somewhat like a captive.

Now take mine in yours  so, and press
them firmly."

At this request Bob revived. He lost no
time in complying with it. Indeed, he
began to consider the situation great fun.
They were quite close to each other, their
knees almost touched, and only the small
table separated them.

Bat her ladyship was not satisfied yet.
VOL. II. 27

*' Look straight into my eyes," she said,
with preternatural gravity, " and after a
time tell me what you see."

There's no occasion to wait. I see a
very pretty woman," replied Bob audaciously.


Hush ! You must not speak yet. It is
too soon."

How long am I to keep quiet ? I
never bargained for having to play mum-chance."


You must judge by your own feelings ;
probably about a quarter of an hour."

"Very well," replied Bob. " But before
we begin this game in earnest  for I
presume it is a game  may I venture to
make a suiifoestion ? "

*' Yes, if you are quick about it, but
don't be long, for the conditions are favourable,
and it's a thousand pities not to profit
by them."

From what I gather' said Bob gravely

our present object is to strengthen and
transmit the magnetic force which we  or
rather you  believe we both possess. Now
at this moment there is but one point of
contact between us. Time electric current
passes through our hands, and. our hands
alone. Don't you think  I make this
suggestion with all due diffidence  that if
you were to put out your pretty little feet
and I were to put out mine, the effect
might be enormously intensified ? We
should then secure a negative and a positive
pole."

She sighed gently.

Yes, Mr. Jarrett, per  perhaps you are
right."

I'm sure of it," said Bob confidently.

"And now to business," she said.
'' Keep on pressing m} hands and looking
into my eyes, and if, by the end of a
quarter of an hour, you begin to feel
peculiar sensations, swear to describe them,

27*

as I swear to describe mine. Only don't be
disappointed if we fail to produce any
active manifestations to-days, since it is
absolutely necessary first to establish
harmonious relations."

Bob laughed heartily.

All right," he said. " Your orders
shall be obeyed."

And then, for fifteen whole minutes
neither of them spoke a word.

The clock on the mantelpiece ticked
away industriously, and those two abominable
pugs snored on louder than ever.

Now, to have free leave given you to
press a pretty woman's hand, and a woman
moreover, not disinclined for flirtation, is a
permission of which most men would take
liberal advantage. To do Bob justice he
was by no means backward in doing so.
But squeezing hands surreptitiously and
from impulse, and squeezing hands by
command, are two very different things, as

before long he began to discover. For
TV lien you are enjoined to continue the
pressure at all hazards, then the temptation,
and, sui rosa, sense of enjoyment, vanishes,
until in the end you become only conscious
of an irksome effort. If any gentleman
doubts this fact, let him try the experiment
for himself.

For the first five minutes Bob's fancy
was amazingly tickled. He discovered that
the lid of one of Lady De Fochsey's eyes
drooped more than the other, that the rims
beneath them were not natural, and that
the eyes themselves, when critically
examined, were wholly wanting in
expression. But the next five minutes,
he began to feel rather bored, and suffered
from an irresistible desire to yawn, which
desire, however, he could not gratify, being
unable to withdraw his hand. The last
found him growling and grumbling
inwardly and voting the whole thing " a

most deuced bore." He made a mental
vow, never to squeeze a woman's hand as
long as he lived. The nerves of his arm
had grown quite dead. At length, to his
infinite relief, the quarter struck.

Well ! " murmured Lady De Fochsey,
who appeared in a dreamy and semi-hypnotic
state. " How do you feel? "

Oh ! awfully jolly," responded Bob, not
wholly veraciously, but thankful to be
allowed the use of his tongue aiain.
How do you ? "

Strange  very strange. I have indescribable
sensations. Do sou see anything
? ''

Earlier," he answered, his sense of the
ridiculous assuming the upper hand.

Oh ! what ? Tell me what."

I sec "  and he lowered his voice to a
mysterious key  " visions of fair disembodied
women, floating about in spirit
space. Waves of ether surround them.

They are free from every coarse and earthly
element "

*' Yes, yes, go on," she interrupted.
** This is really wonderful, especially at the
first attempt. It proves that you possess
most special gifts."

One gracious form beckons me to
draw near," continued Bob, still more
dramatically. " She whispers that she has
waited long, so long for my coming."

Just like me," sighed her ladyship.

Yes, just like you. She says that our
communications require strengthening 
that I amtoo"far off. Ha! she bids me,
with ethereal condescension, encircle her
diaphanous and well-nigh invisible waist,
with my grossly mortal arm." Here Bob
proceeded to clasp Lady De Fochsey's
tightly-laced one, the lady offering no
resistance. How could she? When he
was a medium, and was producing such
lovely manifestations.

My kindred spirit," she murmured,
my kindred spirit, at last  at last."
Then, abandoning herself completely to
the ecstasy of the moment, she added
deliriously, " Is that all ? "

Oh ! dear no. Would you believe it,
my spiritual adviser actually commands me
to press my mundane lips to her chaste
ones. She does not even recoil from the
thought of possible contamination, but
offers me a draught of purest nectar."

To what length Bob's audacity and
irrepressible spirit of mischief would have
led him it is impossible to say. Suffice it,
that his arm was still round her ladyship's
waist and her head was within suspicious
proximity to his own, when suddenly the
door flew open, and Lord Littelbrane was
announced. The aspirants after psychic
force started apart.

No further manifestations could be
expected to take place in the presence of

a third, and probably uncongenial, party.
Lady De Foclisey gave a little startled
scream, and alas ! alas ! the powerful
electric current which had been so successfully
established between herself and Mr.
Jarrett was rudely broken.

But that it had been established was
conclusively proved by the shock felt on
either side at its unexpected and inopportune
rupture.

None but male and female mediums
could possibly have arrived at such sterling
results in so short a space of time.

If the height of clairvoyance had been
reached in one single seance, what might
not be hoped for at the next meeting ?

To the earnest believer in psychology,
delightful and never-endin]j fields of
research were open. Guided and impelled
by the glorious spirit, the body might take
care of itself. That vile earthly thing was
of no account.

AN UNTIMELY Interruption.

It took a good deal to disturb Lady De
Foclisey's self-possession ; but for a few
seconds after the announcement of Lord
Littelbrane lie was fairly staggered.

Her mind had been filled with all kinds
of rare and transcendental ideas. It was
uplifted and exalted in quite an uncommon
degree. Her spirit was just ready to soar
amongst astral planes and undertake a
celestial voyage of discovery, and now, aU
of a sudden, she was called upon to attune
herself to things terrestrial. It was like
being bound by some horrid chain that
rudely pulled you back to earth. Her
discomfiture was increased, too, by the fact

that, amongst the whole circle of her
acquaintance, his lordship was the very
last person whose presence she expected.
No thought of him had entered her head ;
for, although she had already spent two
whole hunting seasons in Stiffshire, he had
never once condescended to call, or to set
foot inside her house ; and this in spite of
sundry friendly little invitations issued by
her hi the beo[innino\

Beyond a few stereotyped remarks out
hunting, confined almost exclusively to the
weather and the sport, no civilities had
been exchanged between them. After a
time her innate sense had told her that this
was a man on whom feminine fascinations
and blandishments would produce but little
effect. It was wiser to reserve them for a
more sensitive and emotional individual.

So she had almost given up the attempt
of trying to enrol his lordship amongst the
list of her admirers, and contented herself

with being on speaking terms  nothing
more.

Consequently she was now at a loss to
understand to what the honour of this visit
was due. Her brain was too distraught to
divine any possible motive.

But if, for once in her life, Lady De
Fochsey felt slightly disconcerted, Lord
Littelbrane was a hundred thousand times
more so. His notions about ladies and
their behaviour were strict, not to say old-fashioned,
and he had seen enough to shock
him very considerably. There could be
no two opinions as to the familiarity of the
positions in which the parties had been
surprised. If he could have withdrawn
without saying a word, most assuredly he
would have done so. But it was too late
now to effect an escape ; therefore, after
an awkward pause, he advanced a little
way into the room, and turning very red
in the face, said.

"I beg pardon. I fear I am intruding."


At these words Lady De Foclisey called
all lier forces into action. She felt that
the moment was critical  that, in fact, her
whole character might depend upon it. A
very pretty story could doubtless be
trumped up at her expense, and circulated
all over the hunting-field. In some way
or other she must account for the entire
business, and in a manner, moreover, that
would completely remove his lordship's
displeasure. The task was by no means
easy. There were a good many facts
against her, but she did not despair. Her
babyish blue eyes, and innocent pout, and
childish speeches which professed no harm
in anything had stood her in very good
stead before now. Besides, in spite of his
stillness and reserve, she did not believe
Lord Littelbrane to be either a very strong
or a very acute man. She thought that it

might not prove altogether difficult to
throw (lust in his eyes.

Therefore she held out her hand almost
affectionately, and said with great apparent
unconcern :

Intruding ? Oh ! dear no. How could
sou possibly imagine such a thing, my
lord ? Mr. Jarrett and I were merely
trying to repeat some spiritualistic experiments
which I saw the other night, and
which required a certain juxtaposition of
the electrical forces."

She was very good at long words. She
picked them up like a parrot, and introduced
them regardless of their meaning.
But they sounded well  learned, scientific
and so on ; and, to tell the truth, his lordship
was a little impressed.

Oh I indeed," he responded. " And
are these experiments confined exclusively
to yourself and this  " he was oinf to
say gentleman, but checked himself and

substituted " young man," without, however,
dei(?ninfT to look at Bob.

She smiled up into his face with the
frankness of a child.

Of course not. We were lon2:in2 fora
third person to assist our efforts. Will
you join us?" and she smiled even more
sweetly than before.

He was mollified, but not sufficiently so
to accept the invitation.

No, thank you. I am afraid your
experiments are not much in my line."

She looked at him oddly, wickedly,
alluringly.

Oh ! how cruel. Won't you even
try ? "

Thanks ; I think not. At all events,"
lovering his voice, " not in the present
company."

Ah, I understand. But," shrugging-her
shoulders, " it was simply a case of
faute de niisuxy

I am field to hear it. I feared it micrlit
be otherwise."

What ! with your experience ? " Then
she rested her hand on his coat-sleeve, and
said in a louder key, " Dear Lord Littel-brave,
you must really let me initiate you
into some of the mysteries of the higher
life. I do not profess to be an adept, but
we might try and cultivate our souls
together. I feel sure there is sympathy
between us."

The last ' remnants of his ill-humour
vanished. He felt infinitely flattered and
raised in his own esteem. Only he could
not unbend as loncf as that " duller "  that
nephew of Straighten's remained in the
room. lie wondered why on earth the
fellow did not go ; and although he was
not going to demean himself by talking to
him, he might talk at him, and convey a
pretty broad hint as to the desirability of
his prompt departure.

'' I think so also," lie said, addressing
Lady De Foclisey pointedly, ' but sympathy
requires a tete-astute. Don't you agree with
me ? "

Ah ! yes, of course. Do you hear that,
Mr. Jarrett ? "

Bob marvelled inwardly at her impudence
 " brass," he dubbed it mentally.
But he had no desire to stay any longer
and be scowled at by Lord Littelbrane, so
he took up his hat, and, moving towards
Lady De Foclisey, said abruptly :

Good-bye. I must be going."

Must you really ? " she asked, in
accents which seemed to say, " Quite right.
1 think you had much better, for 3'ou have
had your innings, and now should make
room for another." Then, turning to Lord
Littelbrane, she said :

Excuse me one moment, my lord."

He bowed stiffly in response. Up till
now he had resolutely abstained from taking
VOL. II. 28

the slightest notice of Bob, and desired to
avoid an introduction, so lie turned his
back upon him and walked to the window,
and stood gazing vacantly out at the green
fields and browsing sheep.

Meantime Lady De Fochsey accompanied
Bob to the door.

Was there ever such an untimely interruption
? " she whispered confidentially.
I declare I could have boxed his lordship's
ears."

Hush ! he will hear you."

"I don't care if he does. He has spoilt
our afternoon."

Bob could not help feeling rather disgusted
with her hypocrisy'. He was convinced
in his own mind that no sooner did
he leave the house than she would make upto
Lord Littelbrane, precisely as she had
made up to him.

His coming was awkward, certainly,"
he admitted. '* And i feel sorry on your

account, as I fear you were placed in a
rather disagreeable situation, and partly
through my instrumentality."

Oh ! never mind about me, I'll soon
smooth old ' Stick-in-the-mud ' over. But,
I say, Mr. Jarrett  Bob  I must call you
Bob, Mr. Jarrett sounds so formal."

Well, what is it. Lady De Fochsey ? "

You will keep our manifestations
strictly secret, won't you ? It would not
be wise to mention them to an ignorant
and unsympathetic public."

Of course not," said Bob, repudiating
the idea of recounting his folly. " You
mays trust me to hold my tongue, especially
where so many universal truths are concerned."


That's right. I knew I could depend
on you ; and, Bob  when will you come
again r

She might have been a girl of eighteen,
proud in the possession of her first lover

28*

and confident of her powers of attraction ;
but her eagerness repulsed him. It wanted
the charm of extreme youth.

"I really can't say," he rejoined coldly.
It depends entirely on what's going on."

Come soon, there's a dear creature. We
ought to join hands again in three or four
days' time at latest, else the magnetic
current may evaporate."

"Perhaps it would be just as well tolet
it, all things considered."

Nonsense. You must not talk like
that. To-day's sitting has conclusively
proved that we are indispensable to one
another. You can only rise through my
instrumentality, and I through yours. We
have each a mission to perform, which should
render us superior to personal feeling."

And what will be the end of it all ? " he
inquired with languid interest.

End ? Why, in course of time we maybe
able to raise the chairs and tables from

their places and suspend them in mid-air.
We may get to hold an ordinary pencil in
our hands, and find long spirit-messages
written upon a slate ; we may even see the
forms of the departed hovering about our
heads and whispering divine words of love
and comfort. Surely you cannot entertain
any doubts after the results we have obtained
to-day? They were so absolutely
conclusive."

I don't know. They seemed to me to
be purely mundane results at best. If they
contained any divine element, the spirits
must be very naughty people."

That is because you have a mundane
mind. We both have at present ; but by
degrees we shall grow out of all that, and
disencumber ourselves of every earthly
attribute."

"I doubt it," said Bob, sceptically.
Earthly attributes have a nasty way of
sticking."

And with that he effected his escape,
and did not breathe freely until once more
he found himself outside in the open air, inhaling
the clear frosty atmosphere, instead
of the languorous flower-laden perfumes of
Lady De Fochsey's drawing-room.

"Phew!" he exclaimed, with a quick
outward breath, as if to shake off every
reminiscence of his visit, " was there ever
such a pack of nonsense ? Eeally, it makes
one wonder what next women will be upto
now-a-days. Every new craze, no
matter how foolish, finds converts amongst
the fair sex."

Then he walked on a step or two, and
added, with a growing sense of self dissatisfaction
:

I wonder what the deuce Dot would
say if she knew what an infernal fool I've
been making of myself. I shouldn't like
her to hear how I've spent my Sunday
afternoon."

Meanwhile Lady De Fochsey applied
herself to the entertainment of her remaining
guest. He had felt annoyed by her
prolonged conference with Bob, and she
found him looking very cross and consequential,
like a bird whose feathers have
been ruffled the wrong way.

Ten thousand pardons," she exclaimed
in her prettiest and most penitent manner.
That young man promises to develop into
a dreadful bore. He has fastened himself
upon me, and really I hardly know how to
get rid of him."

This was an entirely new aspect of
affairs, and one infinitely more pleasing to
Lord Littelbrane.

If what she stated was true, and she
was being persecuted by an impudent
stranger, he was more or less bound to
step in and protect her from further inconvenience.


You are much too good-natured," he

said, " and should not allow yourself to be
imposed upon."

She sighed, and drooped her eyes in a
timid, feminine fashion that she knew how
to assume on occasions.

Ah ! Lord Littelbrane, your advice is
excellent, no doubt ; but \yhat is a poor
single woman in my position to do ? She
does not like to be downright rude, and yet
on the other hand she is more or less at the
mercy of every man she comes across."

How did you first get to know this Mr.
Jarrett ? " he asked, seating himself in the
place recently occupied, by Bob.

I met him out hunting. You remember
the day he tumbled into the
brook ? "

Do you mean to say that he had the
impertinence to speak to you r "

I dropped my hunting crop and he
opened a gate for me. I was obliged to say
thank you ! "

And on the strength of that the fellow
has actually had the cheek to come and
call. Well! I never."

She did not contradict him, and left his
lordship under the impression that Bob had
forced his acquaintance upon her. It was
a little mean, perhaps, not to tell the truth,
but it saved an infinity of trouble ; and
really, if one were to try and stick up for
all one's friends in their absence life would
become a perfect burden. To be nice to
them when they were present was the
extent of what she could undertake.

And what about this spiritualistic
business ? " inquired Lord Littelbrane suspiciously.
" Did your friend Jarrett start
the idea ? "

Well, no, not exactly. I proposed it
at first in fun, and because I did not know
what on earth to do with him. And then
as you might have seen  but really I hardly
like to tell you."

And she turned her head away coyly,
and gazed pensively at one little slippered
foot.

' Yes, yes, go on," entreated her companion,
whose curiosity was thoroughly
aroused.

Well, then, the young man grew
shockingly familiar. I was just going to
ring the bell and bid the servant show him
out, when you came in. You may imagine
my feelings of relief."

This was a very strange story, concocted
on the spur of the moment, but stranger
still, Lord Littelbrane believed it. From
that instant he saw before him a beautiful
and injured woman, whose natural modesty
had been grossly outraged.

Next time I meet the brute I'll punch
his head," he exclaimed vindictively,
knowing, however, that he would do no
such thing, except b} deputy.

Oh ! No, indeed, my lord, you must

not be so fierce. Mr. Jarrett misconducted
himself a little certainly, but then you see
he is a medium, and mediums are always
entitled to a certain licence."

Hem ! And pray how do you get to bea
medium ? "

In a great many different ways."

"Do you think you could make me one?
I should rather like to acquire a few
privileges in your case."

I don't know. I've never had the
chance of ascertaining whether I could or
whether I couldn't."

Will you try. Lady De Fochsey ? "

He spoke so gravely that she suspected
some serious intention.

With pleasure, my lord, provided you
really wish it."

LADY DE FOCIISEY CHOOSES BETWEEN HER
WORLDLY AND SPIRITUAL LOVERS.

Lord Littelbrane had come there that
day charged with a desperate purpose, and
bent on fulfilling a design which he had
only formed after long self communing and
inward cogitation. The presence of Mr.
Jarrett  the pose in which he had discovered
him  had shaken his intention,
but not wholly destroyed it. An explanation
had, however, been forthcoming,
which he considered satisfactory. The
lady was to be pitied, not blamed, as in his
haste he lead imagined. A dear, pretty,
little good-natured thing, who required
some one stronger than herself to iuide

and direct her through the shoals of life.
A woman who was sweet and guileless as
an infant, a very child in nature, and whose
faults proceeded entirely from too kindly
and unworldly a disposition.

This was how he summed her up, after
half an hour's conversation and after
some fifty or sixty eye-glances, lip-pouts,
shoulder-shrugs, and hand-touches. It
takes quite an ordinary Delilah to defeat a
Sampson, and Lord Littelbrane was no
pillar of strength. The very seclusion in
which he had lived, his reluctance to mix
freely with the sex, rendered him all the
more credulous and unsuspicious. Taking
a wife was very much the same as taking
an awkward fence out hunting. He did
not like the necessity. It put him in an
awful fright ;* still, once it became patent
that the thing must be done, it was wiser
to go through with a good grace.

And now he found his courage rising.

She was so very sweet and gracious  nay,
almost caressing.

He cleared his throat, and, with a preparatory
cough, said :

Ahem ! Lady De Fochsey, I wish to
consult you on a delicate matter, but
before doing so will you grant me a
favour ? "

Why, most certainly" she answered,
surprised by the solemnity of his manner.

Thank you. I thought you would.
Will sou give me your views on matrimony
? "

On matrimony ! " she echoed, fairly
astonished at the demand.

*' Yes, I should like to hear your ideas,
if you have no objection to stating them."

Do you mean my own personal experiences,
Lord Littelbrane, or the opinions
that I have formed in a general way ? "

I should like both, but the former for
choice. What 1 want to arrive at is this :

Do you, or do you not, approve of marriage,
looking at it not emotionally, but merely asa
philosopher ? "

What a peculiar question. Of course
I hold with matrimony as an institution.
Women would fare even worse than they
do without it."

Have you fully considered the responsibilities
connected with the state ? "

To what responsibilities do you refer,
my lord ? "

At the present moment, chiefly to
those incurred by parents towards their
offspring."

Oh ! I don't pretend to have any
experience in such matters," she said
lightly. " You see I was lucky enough
to avoid bringing a tribe of children into
the world."

You never had any ? Not even one ? "

No, never, I am thankful to say."

'' Excuse me, Lady De Fochsey, but

were you not disappointed at failing to
perpetuate the family name ? "

She burst out laughing. This cross-examination
appeared to her so utterly
absurd, and it had not yet dawned upon
her what he was driving at.

Eeally, Lord Littelbrane," she said,
still striving to control her mirth, " I
did not consider the family name of so
much importance as all that, and it
would have driven Sir Jonathan simply
mad to have had a squalling baby in the
house."

Strange," he murmured, eyeing her
critically from top to toe. " Any one would
have said that you were formed by nature
to be the mother of a healthy and numerous
family."

She was not over and above pleased at
the turn the conversation was taking. She
told herself it was coarse  very coarse.
As a charming woman she had no objection

to being admired, but not as a people of
the world.

Does your ladyship enjoy good
health ? " he went on, not noticing her
displeasure, and still pursuing his own
train of reflections with a stolid perseverance
that was one of the chief attributes
of his character.

Yes, very, thank goodness. Tve never
been ill in my life. But why this sudden
interest ? "

Young, strong, handsome, and the
owner of an admirable constitution," he
exclaimed, as if speaking his thoughts
aloud. " Where can I find a more suitable
mate, or one more likely to furnish me
with an heir ? Age, looks, temper  everything;
is right."

Good gracious ! Lord Littelbrane.
What on earth are you talking about ? '*

The time has come for an explanation.,
Lady De Fochsey." And as he spoke, he
VOL. II. 29

rose from this seat and began pacing restlessly
up and down the room. " It is
important that I should marry and obtain
a successor, otherwise the family title and
estates pass into unknown hands."

What a misfortune," she exclaimed
with an irrepressible touch of satire.

Of all the ladies of my acquaintance,"
he went on boldly, warming to his subject
at last, " you are the one whom I consider
most fitted to assist in procuring the
desired result. I am a plain-spoken man and
like coming to the point at once. My age
is forty six, and I have twelve thousand a
year. Will you be Lady Littelbrane ?"

So saying he stopped short, and looked
hard at her ladyship with his small colourless
eyes.

For the second time that day she experienced
a genuine movement of surprise.
Lord Littelbrane's proposal, however flattering
it might be to her vanity, was totally

unexpected. He had not paved the way
for it in the least. Moreover, this brusque
style of courtship did not recommend itself
to her ideas. They  as we already know 
were high-flown and romantic.

Besides on this particular afternoon her
soul was still steeped in the vague and
exquisite rapture produced by the recent
seance. Mystic influences intoxicated it.
If he had appealed to the more lofty and
spiritual side of her nature, he might have
had a chance ; but there was something
revolting and grossly material in the notion
of being invited to marry a man for the
express purpose of furnishing him with a
son and heir. Added to this, she had no
natural love of children. The siizht of a
baby did not throw her into tender
rhapsodies. On the contrary, the little
ugly, puckered, red-faced things only
inspired her with aversion. All the
affection she had to spare was already

29*

concentrated upon her darling pugs. In
short, Lord Littelbrane's proposal could not
possibly have been couched in more infelicitous
terms. The very words " children
and parental responsibilities " made her
shiver. And then, he was so abominably
grave. His face would have reflected
credit upon an undertaker, and won him
golden opinions as a hired mourner at a
funeral. She dearly loved a man with a
little dash and " go " about him, even if he
did require keeping in his place every now
and ajiain. During the whole time of Mr.
Jarrett's visit she had never once felt dull.
But, on the other hand. Lord Littelbrane
was a wealthy nobleman, and occupied a
fie position. If she married him she
would be able to snub all those people who
had shown her the cold shoulder during
her widowhood. To do so would aflxrd
infinite satisfaction. No doubt he offered
many advantages from a worldly point of

view. Even spiritual exaltation could not
entirely shut her eyes to that fact. And
then she looked at him. Looked critically
and dispassionately at his little, undersized
figure ; his bloodless face, with its covering
of wizened-up skin ; his sandy hair, and
weak, watery eyes. He was very insignificant
; in fact, downright ugly'. The
sort of man she disliked. Nevertheless, one
short hour ago she might have taken him,
and put up with his personal appearance ;
but at the present moment her whole
being vibrated in response to the ecstatic
conviction that she was deeply, desperately
in love, and at last had fallen victim to the
long-sought and vainly-courted passion of
which she had read so much in novels, and
seen so little in real life.

Already she felt like a heroine of
romance. Bob's brown eyes and bright
glances had penetrated her impressionable
heart, and henceforth she told herself that

she could never, never wed any but a
medium in search of the eternal verities.

How rapturous and yet how lofty had
been the sensations conjured up by that
too brief seance. And now she was requested
to sacrifice all these grand, heroic
feelings  feelings which seemed to lift her
into an altogether purer atmosphere  in
order to bring a young Littelbrane into the
world.

Faugh ! The vulgarity and the gross
materialism of the proposition clashed withall
her finer instincts, and even rendered
her impervious to her own self-interest.
The excitation of her mood was such that
it repudiated the commonplace idea of
getting married and having children. She
rose from her seat, smoothed down the front
of her dress (a habit of hers), and said :

M} lord, you do me great honour ;
nevertheless I cannot become Lady Littel-braes'*


He was too utterly amazed to be offended.
Such a reply had never entered into his
calculations.

Why not ? " he asked incredulously.
Have you any reason for saying no ? "

A mischievous smile played round the
corners of her mouth.

Because it is just possible I might
disappoint your expectations."

He looked at her, much as he would
have looked at some thoroughbred mare.

1 am inclined to think not, Lady De
Fochsey."

Well, whether I should or whether
I shouldn't, I am afraid to run the risk."

There need be none as far as you are
concerned."

What ? " she exclaimed satirically.
Not when Napoleon the Great offers the
honour of an alliance ? Pshaw ! my lord
I know what men are too well to believe
you."

He was rather flattered at being
compared with so famous a man. He
smiled.

I do not think you quite realise what
you are refusing," he said with quiet
confidence.

She made no immediate reply. Indeed,
she began to think that, arrogant as they
sounded, there might be some truth in his
words. She had got a little nearer earth
again in the last few minutes, and the
extreme assurance of his manner impressed
her more than she cared to admit.

Perhaps not. It is just possible you
may be right there," she said uneasily.

" However," he continued, taking up his
hat and stick, " I shall not look upon your
decision as final. No doubt my proposal
has come upon you as a surprise. Think
it over. In a month's time I shall ask
you again to be my wife, and expect then
to receive a different answer."

And with this curious speech he departed,
feeling very much more intent on
gaining Lady De Fochsey's consent than
when he had first entered the house.

Opposition lent a zest to the pursuit
which had hitherto been wanting.

He was not in the least downcast, as
many men similarly situated might have
been. He possessed far too good an opinion
of himself to believe for one moment that
the lady of his choice was in earnest. His
mind could not realize any woman refusing
him seriously.

Being somewhat unprepared for so great
an act of condescension on his part, it was
quite natural that she should require a little
time to get accustomed to it. This was
how he construed her rejection of his
suit.

As for himself  well  he did not profess
to be a very ardent wooer. He was marrying
from principle, and from principle

alone. That was why, unlike the rest of
mankind, he could look round calmly, and
select a partner according to his theories of
selection and maternal aptitude. But
under these circumstances he was not in a
hurry. He felt none of the passionate
impetuosity of youth, and had no objection
to wait until her ladyship had become
thoroughly familiarized with the greatness
and importance of her mission in life.

Of her ultimate acquiescence, he entertained
no doubts whatever.

When Lord Littlebrane had gone. Lady
De Fochsey sat for a long while lost in
meditation. By this time her mood was no
lonfrer so exalted as it had been immediately
after Eobert Jarrett's departure. The
phantasies of her brain were growing
dimmer and vaguer.

Already an inward voice whispered
uneasily that she had done a foolish thing
in refusing Lord Littelbrane.

What has a woman of your age got todo
with love ? " the tormentor kept on
sa3dng. " Are you not past all that
folly ? "

The thought made her feel quite
hysterical. It was such a cruel, cruel
question to emanate from one's own secret
consciousness, that it set her off laughing
and crying by turns.

The pugs were disturbed in their
slumbers, and barked in melancholy
chorus.

Thank goodness ! to these dear, discreet
confidantes she could confess the tumultuous
passions that tore her heart in twain.
Throwing herself full length on the hearth-rug
she embraced them fervently, almost
as if they, too, had been mediums, and
cried aloud :

"Oh! Doodie, Oh! Snoodie, my sweet
darlings ! Pity your poor mistress, for she
is most dreadfully in love, and has actually

refused a coronet and twelve thousand a
year. My pretty ones, what do you say
to that ? "

Doodie and Snoodie curled their tails,
blinked their eyes, and licked their black
shiny lips as much as to say :

We think our ' poor mistress ' has
taken leave of her senses altogether ; but
it don't much matter to us, as long as she
will retain them sufficiently to keep up a
good fire. As for love  it's all nonsense.
Comfort's the thing to go in for. Food,
warmth, drink, then sentiment can be dispensed
with."

Unfortunately Lady De Fochsey was
unable to obtain a clear insist into the
sagacious minds of Doodie and Snoodie.
If she had, she might have seen that
materialism there reigned supreme. Xo
gracious spirit-forms of departed pugs
affected the serenity of the living.

But their mistress, as she lay with them

clasped in her arms, kept on wondering what
further delicious manifestations miht have
taken place if only Lord Littelbrane had
not appeared when he did.

Her mind was a disordered chaos, in
which worldly and spiritual lovers were
grotesquely jumbled up, now one, now the
other gaining a short-lived preponderance.
Still, she had had so many of the former
that on the whole she preferred the latter.
A. spiritual embrace was not only very
exciting, but also delightfully novel.
Exhausted sensation took a fresh lease of
life when brought into communion with
psychological converts. Spirit - wooing
was so refined, so-chaste, so exquisitely
chivalrous.

There was nothing the least prosaic
about it  not like Lord Littelbrane's love-making.
His mode of courtship had
been laconic and commonplace to a
decree.

THE divinity's MOTHER.

As Bob walked in the direction of home
his thoughts, curiously enough, did not
dwell much on the events that had taken
place during his visit to Lady De Fochsey.
They rebounded from her ladyship to Dot
Lankester. It was strange how all the
higher longings within him, instead of
responding to the advances of his spiritual
affinity, were attracted in an entirely
different direction. He was disgusted with
the part he had more or less been forced
to play, and felt as if he had behaved
traitorously towards his real love.

Four whole days had now elapsed since
he had seen her. He becfan to fear she

must be ill, and wondered, although the
hour was somewhat advanced, whether he
could not concoct some excuse for calling
at Doctor Lankester's house, and perhaps
obtaining a peep of his daughter.

Thus thinking, he quickened his stride,
and walked steadily on, until within about
half a mile of the village. Then, all of a
sudden, as he turned a sharp bend in the
road, he saw no less a person than the
doctor himself immediately ahead.

This was indeed a piece of good luck, for
even if he failed to catch a glimpse of Dot,
he was sure to hear some news of her, and
learn the reason why, in spite of all his
endeavours, they had not met.

He soon overtook his neighbour, who
was walking at a leisurely pace, like one
enjoying the Sabbath repose, and who expressed
his pleasure at their meeting.

How do you do, Mr. Jarrett ? " he said,
shaking hands cordially. " I see that, like

me, you have been tempted by the beauty
of the afternoon to take a constitutional'*
" Yes," replied Bob, " I thought a walk
would do me good ; but I confess to having
had an object. I have been calling on
Lady De Fochsey. Do you know her by
any chance ? "

No, we have never met, except in the
hunting field, where I have seen her occasionally,
but not often. She is not one of
our regular residents."

Oh ! indeed. And when do you hunt
again, doctor?" inquired Bob, thinking a
good opportunity had presented itself to
attack the subject of Dot's accepting a
mount.

I'm not quite sure. It's very difficult
for me to form plans beforehand. They
are so liable to be upset at the last
moment. But if I can possibly manage it
I hope to get out on Wednesday,"

"Let me see, where do they meet?"

said Bob. " My memory is so bad that I
Lave forgotten."

"At Pilkington Hill-side, in the very
best part of the whole country. That's
liv I'm anxious to keep the dav clear if I
can. We generally have a good run from
there. The Pilkington foxes are nearly
always a wild, straight-running lot."

And Doctor Lankester's mild face lit
up with the enthusiasm of a genuine
sportsman.

Does does Miss Lankester accompany
you ? " inquired Bob, a trifle confusedly.

I hope so. She has ]seen away from
home the last few days, staying with a
friend the other side of the county."

"Oh!" said Bob, trying to appear indifferent.
" I thought I had not seen her
about."

That was the reason ; but the child
comes back on Tuesday, and I should like
to arrange a treat for her if I could. You
VOL. II. 30

don't know what an awfully keen sportswoman
Dot is, Mr. Jarrett."

I can quite imagine it, if lie takes
after her father," said Bob with a
smile.

Well, I suppose these things are hereditary,"
admitted Doctor Lankester. " At
all events, Dot inherits her love of sport
from me, for her mother does not know a
horse from a cow. However, the child is a
true chip of the old block, and it is a
pleasure to see her out hunting. She
enjoys herself so thoroughly. The only
thing is it makes me wish I could afford
to mount her decently."

Doctor Lankester had altogether dropped
his professional manner, and apparently
enjoyed nothing better than talking about
his daughter, of whom he was evidently as
proud as he was fond.

Now was Bob's chance ; he could not
possibly have had a better.

I  I wanted to ask you something,"
he said, blusliiriG like a sclioolml.

Indeed ! What is it ? If I can be of
any assistance to you, I shall be only too
glad."

"It's a favour," said Bob, turning a
shade more crimson than before.

"I'm delighted to hear it, because, in
that case, the probabilities are the request
is something I am in a position to
grant."

Thank you, awfully, doctor ; I only
want you to say yes."

His companion smiled. Bob's simplicity
was a refreshing contrast to Captain
Straighten's hauteur.

You forget," he said indulgently, " that
I still remain in ignorance as to your
wishes."

'' Well, the fact is," Bob blurted out in
reply, " I have a great many more horses

in my stables than I can possibly ride "

30*

Then you're a very lucky man'' interrupted
the doctor playfully.

Yes, but if you would only allow Do 
I mean Miss Lankester, to take one whenever
she wants to go hunting, it would be
conferring a downright obligation upon me.
There, that's what I wanted to say."

Doctor Lankester crave no immediate
reply. Coming from an almost total
stranger he was touched by the kindliness
of the offer. In twenty years Captain
Straighten! had never made a similar one.

Well, what do you think of my idea ? "
asked Bob anxiously. " You won't refuse,
will you ? "

'''Upon my word, Mr. Jarrett, I hardly
know. It is awfully kind of you to
suggest such a thing, but I scarcely feel
justified in allowing Dot to profit by your
generosity."

It would be uncommonly nice to drive
her a real good mount for Wednesday''

urged Bob persuasively, " especially if lie
knew nothing at all about it till she f]fot to
the meet."

Dr. Lankester's countenance showed that
the proposition was one which recommended
itself.

He was devotedly attached to his
daughter, and the mere thought of iivirif]
her pleasure proved a great inducement to
accept Mr. Jarrett's offer.

I think Dot would go off her head with
delight," he said. " How she would ride if
she were really well mounted. I should
like you to see her follow hounds just for
once, Mr. Jarrett." And his face beamed
with paternal pride.

I hope to see Miss Lankester follow
hounds not once, but many times," Bob rejoined
; " and, as I said before, it will bean
act of charity to keep my horses in
work."

*' There are not many ladies in these

parts who can beat Dot across a country,"
went on the doctor, feeling that he had
secured a sympathetic listener, and in his
innocence never once suspecting Bob might
have an ulterior motive. ' Although I say
it  who shouldn't  she can ride. I know
no prettier sight in this world than to see
Dot coming over a fence."

She's a pretty sight anywhere," said
Bob, under his breath. Then he added
aloud, and in tones of perfect satisfaction,
Come, that's settled, and we need not
discuss the matter any more. How do ycu
go to covert, doctor ? "

We generally ride, provided the
distance is not too creation

that case, if you and Miss Lankester
will jog out to the meet on Wednesday,
Kingfisher shall be there in readiness, and
my groom can then change the saddles."

A thousand thanks. That will suit us
capitally, and I do hope, for Dot's sake, we

may have a good run, if only to give lier a
chance of proving herself not wholly unworthy
of your kindness."

Pray don't talk about kindness," said
Bob, colouring up to the roots of his hair.
The boot is on the other leaf, really."

Ah ? that's your nice way of putting
it."

Not at all. I can't tell you, doctor,"
and Bob's face grew suddenly grave, " how
lonely I am all by myself in that great big
house. I long for companionship, and if
you and your family would only treat meas
a friend, instead of as a stranger, you
would be conferring a real benefit."

Doctor Lankester was moved by this
appeal. He had conceived a great liking
for the simple and straightforward young
fellow, and only Bob's superior social position
had prevented him from showing it
more fully. Now his heart was completely
won.

We shall all appreciate having a neighbour
in you' he said heartily. " And if
we are to treat you unceremoniously, you
must treat us the same, and, whenever you
are dull or out of spirits, consider our house
your home. And, as a beginning, you had
better come in now and drink tea with my
wife, who will thoroughly enjoy a chat.
For here we are," pulling up before the
identical porch beneath which Bob had
stood gazing at Dot's pure profile only a
few nights previously

The young man gladly accepted this invitation.
He had nothing: whatever to do
until dinner-time ; and, in spite of Dot's
absence, his curiosity prompted him to take
the present opportunity of seeing her home
and surroundings. The" would surely
speak to him of her in some form or
other.

He also believed that if he could but
succeed in establishing a friendship between

himself and Doctor and Mrs. Lankester, it
would materially assist this cause hereafter.
There was nothing like having the parents
on one's side to start with. Their goodwill
might prove an enormous gain, and greatly
facilitate all future meetings.

Mothers were proverbially kind to eligible
young men who appeared to fancy their
daughters, and Bob entertained every hope
of enlisting Mrs. Lankester's sympathies. A
quiet half-hour's confidential conversation
would at least afford a chance of making a
favourable impression, which he should
take care to increase later on.

So he followed the doctor into a small
but cheerful and cleanly-papered passage,
and shortly afterwards was ushered into the
presence of Dot's mother. He had looked
upon her with reverence, as a being to be
admired and distantly adored, in virtue of
her quite too charming daughter. And she
disappointed him.

Had lie not been so young and so foolish
he might have known that such would
surely prove the case. For when does a
middle-aged woman ever come up to a
man's expectations ? He can always find a
flaw in her somewhere, if so disposed. His
imagination had pictured a gentle, fragile,
ethereal-looking old lady, with silvery locks,
and a white Shetland shawl, and a sweet
musical voice. In reality, he saw a stout,
roundly-shaped personage, with black
beady eyes, rosy cheeks, and several chins,
who spoke in a sharp staccato voice, and
who, against his will, impressed him with
an idea of vulgarity, and of belonging to a
lower class than did her husband.

Mrs. Lankester was clad in a black silk
dress, very shiny at the shoulder-blades.
Her head was covered by a gorgeous
erection of lace and bright blue ribbons,
and round her fat red neck liuniif a honos o;old
watch-chain. The first glimpse proclaimed

her fondness for meretricious adornment.
At least, so Bob decided. As for any resemblance
to Dot  well, when she began to
speak, it relieved him to find that there was
none. They had not a single trait or
feature in common. All the girl's refinement
and gentility evidently came from her
father. She owed none of her charms to
the maternal side.

Mrs. Lankester received him most
graciously ; nevertheless, there was something
about her which he did not like,
though he would have been at a loss to
define what that something was. Her exaggerated
civility produced an irritating
effect upon his nerves, and seemed too
great to be real. There was too much
fussiness in her manner and in her effusive
speeches. He preferred Doctor Lankester's
homely method of offering hospitality. But
that good man remained singularly quiet in
the presence of his better half, of whom it

was easy to see he stood in considerable
awe. He soon left the room, pleading as
an excuse that he had some business to
attend to, and the lady was not ill-pleased
to find herself alone with her guest. The
doctor always would prose on so about
medicine and science, and things that
nobody cared a bit about. She should
extract far more from ]\[r. Jarrett in his
absence.

Meanwhile the tea had been brought up,
and she pretended to be very busy among
the cups and saucers.

Sugar ? " she inquired presently, with
an ingratiating smile, holding up a lump
between the tongs, and thrusting it almost
under her visitor's nose.

If you please, Mrs. Lankester."

And cream ? " laying an emphasis
on the words, which called attention to
the fact of cream and not milk being
offered.

' If it is not troubling you too much,"
said Bob amiably.

Oh ! don't mention the trouble ; it's a
pleasure."

Seated vis-a-vis his hostess and furnished
with a cup of boiling tea, which could only
be drunk in spasmodic sips, and which was
far more painful to the palate than comforting,
Bob now, for the first time, summoned
up sufficient courage to inquire after Dot.

And so your daughter is away from
home, Mrs. Lankester ? " he said.

Yes, she left early on Wednesday
morning. In fact, the day after she and
her father dined with you."

Don't you miss her most dreadfully ?
I'm sure I should if I had such a child,"
said Bob, his imagination running riot.

"Oh! yes, of course," responded Mrs.
Lankester, in tones which gave the lie
direct to the assertion.

But then, you see, Mr. Jarrett, we poor

mothers of families have got to get used to
losing our offspring."

Do you mean that they take husbands
unto themselves ? "

Exactly. You've hit the right nail on
the head."

And is Miss Dot (Tfoing: to set married ? "
he asked with considerable perturbation.

"Now, now, how you do jump at conclusions,
to be sure ! I never implied such
a thing ; I merely meant to say that I
suppose she will some day, when the right
man turns up."

And hasn't he turned up yet ? "

*' Not in my opinion. Bits of boys without
a halfpenny to bless themselves with
are no good whatever, and the mistake is
encouraging them, as I have impressed upon
Dot since her childhood."

MATERNAL TROUBLES.

Bob gave a sigh of relief at this announcement.
He felt as if some deadly weight
had been removed from his heart.

She's sure to marry pretty soon," lie
said decidedly.

She may or she may not," answered
Mrs. Lankester, looking at him with her
sharp black eyes. " I don't mind telling you
that my eldest daughter made a very bad
match indeed, thanks to her father's weakness
in giving his consent ; and I've no
intention of allowing Dot to do the same,
that is to say  " drawing herself up consequentially,
" if / have any voice in the
matter."

Quite right," said Bob, highly approving

of this decision, since he saw that it shut
the doors to numbers of penniless candidates.


You see, Mr. Jarrett," continued Mrs.
Lankester in her most confidential manner,
poor Matilda was simply sacrificed. Befell
in love with a young engineer who had
only a hundred and fifty a year, and Doctor
Lankester, instead of sending him to the
right about, actually encouraged the
marriage. With what result ? There js
poor dear Matilda now, at five-and-twenty,
living in some frightful, unhealthy African
village, from which she may never live to
return, and wdtli three little bits of
children on her hands. Can you conceive
of anything more dreadful or more trying
to my maternal feelings ? "

But perhaps she is happy, Mrs. Lankester.
If so she would make liixht of
enduring a few hardships for the sake of
being with her husband."

Oil ! don't talk to me of lier husband.
Every time I hear his name mentioned it
makes me mad to think what a fool Doctor
Lankester was, not to send him off with a
flea in his ear. But I shall take pretty-good
care not to let Dot throw herself away
in a similar manner, however much she
may be backed up by her father."

And as she spoke Mrs. Lankester s
countenance assumed such an obstinate
expression that Bob immediately caught
himself pitying her more unworldly and
tender-hearted spouse, and wondering how
many Caudle lectures he had already
been treated to on the subject of Matilda's
mesalliance. But he kept his speculations
secret, and said soothingly :

I think you have no cause for alarm

as regards Miss Lankester. She is sure to

make a good marriage, possibly a brilliant

one. But perhaps you are too ambitious."

Oh ! dear no, Mr. Jarrett. You are

VOL. n. 31

(quite mistaken there. I would let her
jnaiTj anybody who had a sufficient
income,"

*' And what do you call a sufficient
income, Mrs. Lankester ? Fifteen thousand
a year ? "

That was precisely the amount he had
inherited from his uncle.

Two would satisfy me. But there  "
breaking off short, " what's the use of
talking . Young men with money and on
the look out for a wife are scarce in this
part of the world : and even a few hundreds
are not to be picked up in a hurry."

I thought there were any number of
hunting bachelors in Stiflshire," said
Job.

So there are. But they don't count,
though lots of them are aggravating
rich."

"Indeed! Why not?"

Because their heads are stifled full of

nothing but horses and hounds, and they
think far more of a yearling filly than they
do of a young lady. I begin to despair of
Dot's finding a husband down here." And
Mrs. Lankester sighed audibly.

She must have one, of course P " said
Bob, with a touch of satire lost upon his
listener, whose extreme worldliness repelled
him, although he could not help feeling
amused by it.

' Of course. What is a young woman
to do if she remains single ? She's a
perfect nobody, and has no position whatever.
Besides, Dr. Lankester can't afford
to leave either of his daughters a fortune,
He's not at all a rich man, and of late years
he has been far from strong."

"Never fear," said Bob confidently.
*miss Dot can do quite well without a
dot '  no joke intended."

Ah ! that's all very fine, but seriously,
Mr. Jarrett, what disturbs me so much

31*

now-a-days is the tribe of women one
meets with wherever one goes. There
are a great many more in existence than
there are men, and things have got to such
a pass in our country, that the fact of the
matter is there are not enough husbands to
ago round. Some of the girls are bound to
get left out in the cold, whether they like
it or not."

Then I should ship them off to
Australia," said Bob, laughing heartily.
A batch of nice, rosy English young
ladies would be immensely appreciated out
in the bush."

One can't send a girl off to a foreign
country all alone," said Mrs. Lankester,
receiving the suggestion quite seriously

Besides, Dot is so young set, that I think
she should be allowed to have a chance first,
though Heaven only knows how she is ever
to meet anybody worth marrying down
here."

((

Mrs. Lankester's anxiety to get rid of lier
daughter, and the way in which she
appealed to him, tickled Bob's fancy not a
little. A lady of greater refinement would
have concealed her object better, and
treated the whole matter more artistically.
Instinct told him that in his love's mother
he should find a powerful ally, who would
advance his cause by every means at her
disposaL And, though he might not
much like the woman, this was of vast
importance. It was an immense relief, too,
to ascertain that practically the field lay
open, and that none other had laid siege to
Dot's affections.

Consequently, the more piteously Mrs.
Lankester bewailed this scarcity of eligible
suitors, the lighter hearted he grew.
Everything appeared satisfactory, as far
as he was concerned.

"You mark my words," he said gaily,
*' some stranger will come pouncing down

on Miss Dot when you least expect it, and
carry lier ofF before you have time to
recover from your surprise."

' I hope so at any rate. But are you
really in earnest, Mr. Jarrett?" looking at
him with eyes which seemed to pierce his
innermost thoughts.

Yes, quite. Your daughter is much
too charming to remain a spinster, even
in this country, where there is such a
sad insufficiency' of the masculine creature."


"And you are not joking?" she said
pointedly. " You really mean what you
say ?

Of course I do ; I never was more
serious in my life."

Why, Mr. Jarrett," she exclaimed play-full
v, " I shall befiin to think you are a
little bit ' gone ' on Dot yourself." And an
unctuous smile spread slowly over all her
roseate countenance.

It was a hazardous speech, but there was
a look in his face which emboldened her
to make it, and made her heart beat fast
with a hope that surpassed even her highest
ambition.

He blushed furiously, but did not attempt
to deny the insinuation.

Suddenly she leant forward and said with
almost motherly solicitude :

I hope we shall see you very often,
Mr. Jarrett, although we have no fine
house, or good cook, or old wines to offer
as an inducement."

"I don't care two straws about such
things," he said hastily.

No ? Well, then, I shall no longer
feel afraid to make you heartily welcome
whenever you like to come. Even a potluck
dinner we could manage, if you are
not particular."

There never was anyone less so. You
seem to forget, Mrs. Lankester, that I was

not born in the purple, and have only
lately inherited my fortune."

It's a relief to find you have not inherited
Captain Straighten's manners as
well as his moneys*' said the lady vindictively.
" I can't abide those stuck-up,
supercilious people."

I hope you don't thir-k me ' stuck-up
'? " said Bob.

"Xot a bit. That's why I like you."

I am glad jour first impressions have
been favourable, Mrs. Lankester."

La ! Mr. Jarrett, I feel as if we were
quite intimate already, and can almost
imagine I had known 3'ou all my life. I
should no more have dreamt of telling sour
uncle about Matilda's marriage, and m}'
hopes for Dot, than of flying. But you are
what I call a real neighbour, not a make-believe."


I hope to prove in3'self one," he said.

You have done that already ; but if

you wish to do so still more, you might
take compassion on that poor girl of mine,
every now and again when you have no
better employment. She leads a dull life
at best, and a little young society would
do her all the good in the world."

He understood perfectly what she intended
to convey by this petition. Her
vulgarity was intense, but fortunately her
wishes coincided with his own, so that he
felt no difficulty in complying with the

request.

.

Only he could not help thinking that it
was very disgusting of a woman to throw
her daughter at a man's head quite so
plainly, simply because she knew he was
well-off. For of his real character Mrs.
Lankester could know positively nothing.
She might have been sacrificing her
offspring at the shrine of a monster, for
aught she was aware.

Had lib been in Dot's place he should

have resented such conduct fiercely, and
he fancied now that he could divine the
reason of her coldness and reserve. No
doubt the mother's many lectures on
matrimony had revolted her pride, and
caused her to assume that sternly defensive
demeanour which in his heart of hearts he
both admired and respected.

He told himself that he should not have
liked her so well if, instead of exhibiting
the same simple, child-like nature as her
father, she had taken after Mrs. Lankester.

That lady inspired him with an antipathy
which he was at a loss wholly to account
for. Her amiability struck him as unreal,
her 2[ood humour as forced.

But he was extremely ungrateful to
harbour such thoughts, whilst she sat
there, smiling at him across the table and
confiding' all her maternal troubles, as if
he had been her bosom friend and on terms
of the greatest intimacy.

When at length he arose to take his
leave, he was conscious that she had
somehow contrived to establish a kind of
secret understanding, the purport of which
was much to this effect :

You admire my daughter ; you can't
hide that fact from me, tr} what you will.
Very well Don't be afraid. The cirl has
arrived at a marriageable age, and it is
high time she was settled in a home of her
own, and off my hands. You can make upto
her as much as ever you like. I shall
take care that you have every opportunity
given you."

Bob naturally enough was delighted with
his visit, though not perhaps equally so
with his future mamma-inlaw He foresaw
that the probabilities were he should like
her better before than after matrimony,
and caught himself wonder in 2f how she
might be prevented from paying too
frequent visits at the Court.

No sooner had he left the room than
Mrs. Lankester popped her head out of
the door and called in a sharp excited
voice :

Dr. Lankester. Come here, I want
you ! "

Yes, Emma, what is it ? " he enquired,
emerging from his laboratory in shirt sleeves
and slippers.

That 3oung man is in love with Dot.
You mark my words."

"What young man?" he enquired
mildly, having forgotten the very existence
of his late visitor.

"What young man ? Why! Mr. Jarrett
of course, and I tell you he's awfully
spooney already."

Nonsense, Emma. You women are
always taking ridiculous ideas into your
heads."

Oh ! indeed ! / take ridiculous ideas
into my head, do I . I, who am the only

one who lias a grain of sense in this house.
Thank you, Doctor Lankester, thank

you."

Pshaw ! " he muttered impatiently,
threatening to withdraw. " Can't a poor
young fellow even set foot inside our doors
without your having designs upon him ? "
And he commenced a retreat.

Don't go. I've something to say to
sou," his better-half exclaimed authoritatively.


'you generally have, my dear," he
responded with a sigh of resignation.

Yes, but this is something very special
something that may affect your
daughter's future welfare, and secure her
fortunes hereafter.

Out with it, then. Every woman
should make a point of checking all
tendency towards verbosity. The sex have
a natural inclination to use half-a-dozen
words where one would do."

"How rude you are! But about Mr.
Jarrett "

Well, what of him ? Has he been
doing or saying anything very startling ? "

You know what a terrible muddle you

made in poor Matilda's case " unheeding

the demand.

That's according to one's individual
way of thinking. Matilda may not be rich,
but she's very happy, and money is not
everything in this world."

It's a great deal, though. And
supposing Matilda's husband were to die
tomorrow, where would she be ? Should
not you have to keep her and the three
children ? " looking at him contemptuously.


This interrogation was so unanswerable
that Doctor Lankester took refuse in
silence. He generally said as little as
possible when the partner of his bosom
bean an argument, knowing from bitter

experience that otherwise it was apt to
prove interminable.

"All I want is this," continued Mrs.
Lankester. "You've had your own way
with one daughter, and failed signally, let
me have mine with Dot."

I don't understand you. And God
knows I don't want to have my own way
in anything that is not for the child's
good."

You are very dense. Leave me to
manage Mr. Jarrett, and don't attempt to
interfere."

But, Emma "

No, let us have no buts. You are not
called upon to volunteer confessions, even
if there were any to make. All I ask you
to do is to hold your tongue."

I fear there may be some deception,"
he said, yielding a reluctant consent.

*' Deception, indeed ! And pray what
do you take me for. Doctor Lankester?

That is a pretty word for a man to use to
his own wife. It's as good as telling her
that she's a downright liar."

Emma, I do wish you would not use
that word. It's unladylike in the extreme."


Story-teller, then, though it's too
absurd to be so particular, when you
have just told me to my face that I am
capable of playing all sorts of mean
tricks "

I'm sure I never said anything of the
sort," said the poor doctor apologetically.

You insinuated it, John. Yes, and in
the most unkind and brutal fashion. And
all because I asked you to maintain a discreet
reserve where your own daughter is
concerned. It really does not signify tome
who Dot marries, not a bit ; but don't
lay the blame at my door if she ends by j

being a pauper, and has not even so much I

as a roof over her head after your death."

And SO saying Mrs. Lankester flounced
out of the room, leaving her husband in a
state of mild bewilderment as to what the
discussion*really meant, and for what particular
reason he was sternly forbidden to
allude to certain innocent facts in Mr.
Jarrett's presence.

VOL II.



CHAPTER XIII.

THE Morley Instead MEET IN TIIEIll Chace

COUNTRY.

A LARGE and fashionable host assembled at
Pilkincfton Hill-side to street the Morbev
Anstead hounds in their crack country.
Every town and village within a radius of
twenty miles had apparently poured forth
its contingent. Many arrived by train, but
more reached the fixture on smart, galloping
hacks, whose fore-legs seemed warranted o
resist the trying influences of Macadam.
About quarter of a mile from the covert
was a road where each fresh arrival congregated,
and this road was literally
crowded with horsemen, grooms, spectators
and vehicles of every description, from a
.smart four-in-hand containing a batch of

officers from the neii?libouriniT town of
Stiffton, to a diminutive, yellow-painted
donkey cart, the owners of which were
standing up on the wheels in order to
obtain a more elevated point of view.

Huntsmen and hounds were evidently
the chief attraction to the natives. Burnett
was surrounded by a bevy of meanly clad,
good-natured foot-people, who watched his
proceedings, and those of his canine tribe
with interest interest, and uttered remarks
amusing from the very ignorance they
displayed. Altogether the scene was a
brilliant one, rendered gay to the eye by
the numbers of scarlet coats and snowy
leathers, which offered a pleasing contrast
to their back-ground of grey-green grass
and neutral-coloured hedge-rows, that
stretched far away towards the horizon.
A few gleams of sunshine would have
rendered it still more imposing, and given
warmth to the surrounding landscape ; but

32*

the day was dull and still, with a quiet
grey sky, and just a bite of frost in the
air.

What wind there was came from the
east. Though not stroma it was cold in
quality, and made the horses round their
backs and whisk their tails in a manner not
wholly agreeable to nervous riders. The
Field were in a particularly cheerful and
sanguine mood. Even the Mutual 
were a shade less sad than usual,
and not quite so chary of speech. By a
remarkable coincidence, everybody had
apparently made up his or her mind that
the day was one destined to prove productive
of a good run. Even Burnett seemed
hopeful, and declared there was every
appearance of its being a scenting morning,
which statement still further increased the
expectations of his followers.

Bob had taken care to arrive early. He
sported " pink " for the first time, and felt

very fine in his new clothes. Already he
wondered at himself for ever having
descended to elastic straps. Looking back,
even Charles' ill-concealed derision appeared
perfectly justifiable. His thoughts, however,
Averse full of Dot, and he was glad not
to differ from his neighbours for her sake.
He would not have liked her to consider
him a guy. He left home quite a quarter
of an hour sooner than was necessary,
because he did not desire to miss the
pleasure of seeing her face when first she
became aware of the fact that she was to
ride Kingfisher instead of Mouse.

Consequently, he took up his station at
the junction of four roads a little way
removed from the crowd, whilst his pulses
throbbed with feverish expectation. Meantime
Kingfisher was safely domiciled in
some farm buildings close at hand.

Fortunately for the impatient young
man he had not to wait lonir.

Before many minutes had gone by, he
recognised a certain sturdy dun cob,
advancing at a brisk trot, and bearing on
her back a slender, feminine figure which
set this heart a-beating even whilst yet a
considerable distance off.

Doctor Lankester accompanied his
daughter. He was mounted on a short-legged,
compact, flea-bitten grey mare, with
a big body, strong quarters, and a lean
head and neck, which gave her a real
business-like and " varmint " appearance.
In fact she looked a hunter all over ; and
the way she pricked her ears at sight of
the hounds, champed at her bit, and
quickened her stride, proclaimed a decided
preference for chasing the fox rather than
jogging soberly along the roads from one
patient to another. Her rider appeared
transformed. From a quiet, rather melancholy
individual, he had changed into a
vivacious and enthusiastic sportsman, who

sat his horse like a centaur, and whose
heart was evidently in the work.

' Hooray ! Here you are ! " exclaimed
Bob, colouring with pleasure, and raising
his hat to Dot. "How do you do, Miss
Lankester ? Has your father been telling
you as you came along of the terrible plans
we have hatched in your absence ? "

The tone of his voice reassured her.

No," she said smiling. " What plans ? "

The fresh air and the sharp exercise had
tinted her face like a wild rose.

I will leave Doctor Lankester to
explain ; for if you don't approve of our
conspiracy, you will forgive him more
readily than me."

She turned towards her father with a
look of bewilderment in her clear eyes.

Papa," she said. " What does Mr.
Jarrett mean ? "

Well, Dot," he replied, " the fact is,
our kind friend and neighbour has insisted

upon your accepting a mount for the day.
So jump off old Mouse, my girl, and we
will set about changing saddles at once."

A sudden flush of pleasure rushed to her
cheeks, and dyed them a vivid crimson.
Bob would not have lost the sicht of that
involuntary expression of delight for a great
deal. It sent an answering thrill of rapture
running through his veins, and was all the
reward he wanted. No words could have
conveyed ]half so much.

And Dot, taken completely by surprise,
did not give herself time to think. Besides,
if her father had sanctioned the proceedings,
it was absurd for her to entertain any
scruples. Need letter days were scarce.
Surely she would be a fool not to profit by
one when she i>ot the chance.

Some such thoughts flashed for a moment
through her brain, and she exclaimed
cordially :

A mount for me ? Oh ! Mr. Jarrett,

how good of you. I feel as if it were
impossible to thank you enough.'

But Bob had vanished. Without waiting
to hear what Dot would say he had gone
off in search of Kingfisher. He reappeared
however, very shortly, accompanied by a
groom leading the proud animal destined
to carry Miss Lankester.

She jumped lightly to the ground without
further delay, and stood holding Mouse's
bridle with her small, gloved hands, whilst
her saddle was being transferred from the
one horse to the other.

A little, slender bit of a thing she looked ;
not exactly short, but very slight and
girlish, and with a wonderful pair of clear,
intelligent eyes, through which her whole
nature seemed to shine.

So Bob thought as he gazed at her, but
Dot's attention was fully engrossed by
Kingfisher.

The chestnut was a real beauty, and a

thorough gentleman in appearance  long,
low, and symmetrical, with a blood-like
head, small sensitive ears, and a neck
strong, yet pliant as a piece of whalebone.
He stood about fifteen-three, on good sound
limbs, short from the knee downwards,
whilst his sloping shoulders denoted speed
and comfort to the rider, his great, long
muscular thighs and well let down hocks,
immense jumping capability. Dot was quite
sufficiently well versed in horse-flesh to take
in her hunter's good points. As for Doctor
Lankester, who like all Yorkshire men was
a heaven-born judge, he stood and looked
him over with the eye of a " connoisseur,"
and even then found it hard to detect a
fault.

That's something like a hunter," he
exclaimed approvingly. " Clean bred, yet
up to weight, and as nearly perfect in
shape, as man could wish for. Dot," turning
to his daughter with a pleased expression,

" it will be your fault, my girl, if you
do not slow a good many of us the way
to-day."

Dot gave a little, silvery laugh, wliicli
rang out musically on the still air.

I'll do my best at any rate, father. But
it takes a very first-rate performer to
flourish his heels in Sugarloaf's face."

Aye, aye, that's so," said the doctor,
playing with his mare's fine mouth. " But
all the same, if I'm not very much mistaken,
you'll have the legs of me to-day."

When all was in readiness, Bob, after
first apologizing for his inexperience, offered
to mount the girl, but her father's hands
were already clasped, and she put her foot
inside them with the confidence of long use.
In another second she was firmly seated in
the saddle, and gently taking up the reins,
leant forwards and patted Kingfisher's
glossy neck.

Nice old man," she said in cooing

accents. " You and I must soon make
friends."

As she moved ofT towards where the
hounds were located, her slight figure, with
its shapely shoulders and small, round waist
sitting firm and erect, although it yielded
gracefully to every movement of her horse,
Bob thought, that in spite of the patched
habit, and its threadbare seams, which again
had attracted his notice, he had never seen
a much prettier sight in his life. She was
so trim and neat, and her sweet little face
peeped out from under the brim of her pot
hat like some bright, fresh, wholesome
flower, that held its head up straight, and
knew none of the sin and misery that goes
on in this vale of tears.
He gave a few final directions to his
groom about taking Mouse back to her own
stables, and was just about to follow Doctor
Lankester and his daughter, when a voice
close behind said unceremoniously :

Halloa ! Bob. How are you ? "

Startled by the familiarity of the greeting,
he looked round and perceived Lady De
Fochsey, who in her scarlet coat and white
waistcoat, reminded him somewhat of a
monkey on a barrel-organ.

Good-morning," he responded politely,
trying to smother a slight feeling of annoyance
at her presence, and the off-hand
mode of address, which distinctly intimated
that she looked upon him as her
own peculiar property. '' Nice day this
for hunting."

Yes, very, though I shouldn't wonder
if it rained later on. By the way, would
you mind piloting me? I always like
knowing I have some one to rely upon, and
really. Captain Princeton has taken to
jumping such tremendous places, that I told
him only the last time he was out, it was
really impossible for me to follow him any
longer."

This request placed Bob in a dilemma.
He had never bargained for having to take
charge of her ladyship in the field, and was
rather alarmed by the proposition. To
begin with, he had not the very faintest
notion whether she went well to hounds or
not ; and moreover, on this particular day,
he had promised himself the pleasure of
keeping near Dot Lankester, and of seeing
how Kingfisher carried his precious burden.
Instinct told him, that if he acceded to
his spiritual affinity's demand, it would
seriously interfere with this programme.
She was not a lady to brook any rival.

Upon my word," he answered diplomatically,
" I should be only too glad to
assist you in any difficulty, but I am not
an experienced sportsman, and really don't
pretend to know enough about hunting to
undertake the delicate task of piloting a
lady across country."

Oh ! never mind that. Bob, you're too

modest by half. Besides, there's no occasion
to go so desperately hard. Indeed I'd
rather not as far as I am concerned.
These tremendous big fences only scratch
your face, and pull all your clothes to
pieces."

It don't much signify about my face
being scratched," he rejoined ungraciously,
though of course a lady's is different.
Only if hounds run, one is bound to try
and be with theme"'

Oh ! if one turns up at the checks it
does just as well. For my part, I prefer
sticking to the roads  they give you so
much better opportunities."

He made a wry face, but had not courage
enough to ask, to what sort of opportunities
she referred, though in his own
mind he summed them up by a single
word  flirtation.

"I give you fair warning," he said,
striving to conceal his impatience at being

separated from Dot, " that I am not a fit
person to pilot a lady."

"But, Bob  I want to talk to you. I
must talk to you, in fact."

What about, Lady De Fochsey ? Can't
you say what you've got to say now ? "

Impossible ! How can you ask such a
question, especially after all that happened
the other day ? Is there no more magnetic
sympathy between us? Has it entirely
evaporated ? "

I'm sure I don't know," he responded
sheepishly. " I never exactly understood
what magnetic sympathy meant."

"You seemed to have a pretty good
inkling of it last Sunday afternoon at any
rate, but it appears to me that you have
retrogression since then."

"Yes, I am afraid I have. I am not
conscious of much improvement."

Have you made no progress whatever,
Bob ? "

"It seems not. At least according to
your way of thinking."

Alas ! Neither have I, and it proves tome
conclusively, that the latent possibilities
within us cannot be developed singly,
but require mutual assistance. We must
repeat our experiments, and lose no time
in doing so, else what powers we already
possess will fade away, owing to the
weakening: of the electric current. Tell
me, Bob," sidling up close to him, " when
may I expect you ! I shall take care this
time, that our seance is not interrupted, just
when we are obtaining important results."

He felt more and more embarrassed.
Her eagerness was difficult to deal with.

Eeally," he said, in shuffling tones that
were most unusual to him, and wishing to
goodness he had the moral courage to put
an end to this tomfoolery once and for all,
"it's almost impossible to Qx any exact
time."

VOL. IT. 33

Are you so very, very busy ? " she
asked sarcastically.

He reddened. The tone of her voice
brought home an uncomfortable sense of
evasion.

"Well, yes, I am. The fact is, Lady
De Fochsey," setting his jaw as if he were
going at some impenetrable bull-fmch, " I
can't cultivate my ' latent possibilities '
until my terrestrial affairs have been placed
in some order."

But why not combine the two ?
The development of your psychic force
would enable you to attend to mere
mundane business* with far greater
ability."

I fear that it cannot be done. I am
not so sanguine as you."

She turned a pair of reproachful blue
eyes full upon him.

Oh, Bob," dropping her voice almost
to a whisper, " you are dreadfully unkind.

I could not have believed that you would
have treated me like this."

Like what ? " The rose, whose fragrance
he had not been strong enough to
withstand, was beginning to show thorns.

You seem to ignore my sufferings
altogether."

"We will hope that they are not very
terrible," he said, tr34ng to banter her out
of her sentimental mood.

But they are ; and oh ! Bob, we should
not have needed many more seances. Half-a-dozen
or so would soon have rendered us
independent of hand-joining. It is only
the preliminary stages that are perhaps a
little tedious, and when people are born
mediums like yourself, they have certain
obligations towards their fellow-creatures
which it is downright wicked to ignore."

And she looked at him fearfully, for she
had not foreseen this refractory spirit.

The distressed expression of her countenance

produced the intended effect. Bob
relented somewhat.

Well, well," he said temporising,
there's time enough yet. We will wait
till a frost comes, and then see what can be
done in the way of spiritual and magnetic
improvement."

She was going to make some reply, but
at this precise moment, Lord Littelbrane,
not seeing Bob, rode up to her side, and the
young man profited by the opportunity to
effect an immediate escape. He at once
cantered off' in pursuit of the Ancestors,
who had joined the hounds.

Two minutes afterwards his lordship gave
the signal for the proceedings of the day to
commence, and, accompanied by a whole
crowd of foot-people, Burnett moved off* at
the head of a huge procession, and trotted
briskly across half-a-dozen grass fields
which separated the covert from the road.

Kingfisher had not been out Imntincf

since his late accident, and consequently
was very fresh. When the good horse saw
his old friends, the little beautiful, white
and tan ladies in front of him, and felt the
soft, elastic turf under his hoofs, he
whinnied with delight, and in the exuberance
of his spirits, bounded high into the
air.

You are not frightened, are you ? "
said Bob, a little anxiously to Dot
Lankester.

Her whole face was aglow with pleasure.


"Frightened? Oh! dear no. I like it.
You've no idea, Mr. Jarrett, what an
exhilarating sensation it is to feel a good
hunter under one when you've only been
accustomed to inferior animals. I don't
think I ever was on such a horse," caressing
Kingfisher's silky mane, an action
which provoked another playful buck, and
a little ringing laugh from Dot.

I never thought he'd play the fool like
this," said Bob resentfully.

He's only light-hearted, Mr. Jarrett,
and so am I," she called out gaily in reply.

Seeing her so cool and undisturbed both
in seat and in nerve, Bob began to feel
reassured, especially as Doctor Lankester
made as licht of Kingfisher's vagaries as
did his daughter, and evidently entertained
no fears on her behalf.

So Bob concluded that his alarm was
groundless. Nevertheless he stuck to Dot's
side until the covert was reached and a
general halt proclaimed. Having mounted
the girl he persuaded himself easily enough
into the belief that it was more or less his
duty to look after her.

END OF VOL. II.

3 0112 084215232

i: *

,',1

]'< m

1 -~

OF THE

UN Diversity
Of 

K565c
V. 2>

A CRACK COUNTY,

H novel

BY

MES. EDWAED Kennedy,

Author of

"Killed in the Open," "The Girl in the Brown Habit."
A Real Good Thing," etc., etc.

I' THREE VOLUMES.

VOL III.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31, SOUTHAMPTON Street. Strand, W.C,

1888.

Discontents



CHAP. PAGE

I.  A Regular " Clinker " . . . . 1

II.  " If You Mean Leaping, Don't Look

Long" . . . . . . 19

III.  Run to Ground . 39

lY.  Bob and His Kindred Spirit Fail Out 57

V.  A Fashionable Steeple-chase Meeting 76

VI.  An Amateur Finish . . . . 101

VII.  ''I would Give Mt Life to Serve You" 121

VIII.  Bob Receives a Severe Shock . . 140

IX.  Love Before Money . . . .161

X.  Jumping Muddtford Bottom . . 189
XI.  A Parting Bequest . . . .218

XII.  Conclusion 246

Now ready, the Seventh Edition of

Army SOCIETY." By Jon Strange Winter, Author of
Booties' Baby." Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also, picture boards, 2s.

Also, Now Ready, in Cloth Gilt, 3*. Gd. each.

"GARRISON GOSSIP," Gathered in Blankhampton. By JOHN
Strange Winter. Also, picture boards, 2s.

"A SIEGE BABY." By the same AUTHOR.

IN THE SHIRES." By Sir Sandal H. Roberts, Bart. Also,
picture boards, 2.

"THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT." A Sporting Novel. By
Mrs. Edward Kennard. Also, picture boards, 2*.

 BY WOMAN'S WIT." By Mrs. ALEXANDER, Author of " The
Wooing O't." Also, picture boards, 2s.

MONADS CHOICE." By the same AUTHOR.

"KILLED IN THE OPEN." By Mrs. EDWARD Renard. Also,
picture boards, 2s.

"IN A GRASS COUNTRY." By Mrs. H. Loveth-Cameron.
Also, picture boards, 2s.

"A lEVOUT LOVER. By the same AUTHOR.

"THE OUTSIDER." By Hawley SMART. Also, picture boards, 25.

"STRAIGHT AS A DIE." By Mrs. EDWARD Kennard. Also,
picture boards, 2s.

"TWILIGHT TALES." By Mrs. EDWARD Renard. (Illustrated.)

SHE CAME BETWEEN." By Mrs. ALEXANDER ERASER.

THE CRUSADE OP THE ' EXCELSIOR.' " By BRET Harte.

CURB AND SNAFFLE." By SiR RANDAL H. ROBERTS, Bart.

A REAL GOOD THING." By Mrs. EDWARD Renard.

DREAM FACES." By THE HONBLB. MRS. FETHERSTONHAUOH,

F. V. WHITE & Co.,
81, Southampton Street, Strand, London, W.O.

CHAPTEE I.

A REGULAR " CLINKER.

An expectant silence fell upon the hard-riding
division of the field, whilst hounds
were drawing the celebrated covert, known
by the name of Pilkington Hill-side.
Every sound made these eager Nimrodss
prick up their ears, and the shrill whistle
of a distant train, striking suddenly on
the air, was momentarily mistaken for a
view halloa, and created quite a remarkable
commotion, though one of short-lived
duration.

Whilst less enthusiastic sportsmen stood

VOL. II". 34

lighting up cigars and whiling away the
time in desultory conversation, the more
ardent spirits threaded their way dexterously
through the crowd of horses, and
stationed themselves opposite a five-barred
gate, at a point where they considered the
fox was most likely to break covert.
They stood there like sentinels, ready,
however, to dart off in pursuit directly
Pug made an attempt to face the open.
Scarce a sound did they utter, except an
occasional oath, when some fidgety animal
sidled or kicked, and so caused his rider to
fall back and lose a place or two, besides
provoking a general feeling of irritation.

But the minutes went by, and Reynard
did not show himself, as was confidently
anticipated, Not even a whimper burst
from the throats of his enemies, and
nought could be heard, save the steady
crashing of twigs and grasses, as the
hounds poked about among the thick

undergrowth and thoroughly investigated
every likely spot. Now and again, one
would steal out into the field, and there
pause to take breath, before recommencing
her labours. By-and-by others might be
seen gazing disconsolately around, as if to
give notice that they were quite as much
disappointed as their human friends and
allies at the way events were shaping.

Consternation now began to spread
amongst the ranks. Jaws dropped, faces
looked glum. Pilkington Hill side blank ?
and blank thus early in the season.
What could the owner have been about,
or what excuses had he to make for so
disgraceful a state of things ? He was too
fond of shooting by a great deal. He was
not half a sportsman. He ought to have
cut down some of the undergrowth. It
was ridiculously thick. The best hounds
in the world might not succeed in finding
a fox under such conditions, &c., &c. We

all know the sort of things that are said on
these occasions. There must be a scapegoat,
and he is nearly always the proprietor,
who, poor man ! nine times out of ten,
feels the non-discovery of Pug far more
keenly than the whole field put together,
and needs not their reproaches to inflict a
still deeper wound on his already lacerated
feelings. Presently a rumour circulated
to the effect that a tribe of starlings had
visited the covert at the close of the last
hunting season, and foxes in consequence
had refused to make a home of Pilkington
Hill-side, though the owner had done his
best to encourage their presence.

Even then, until the very last moment,
no one would believe that Pilkington
actually held no specimen of the vulpine
race. But when a quarter of an hour had
elapsed, melancholy confirmation was
given of the fact. Burnett blew his horn,
and slowly, at his summons, the reluctant

hounds crept out and came clustering
around him with wistful yellow eyes, which
seemed to say : " Don't be angry with us.
It was not our fault. We did our best to
find him, but he was not there."

A short consultation now took place
between huntsmen and master. The almost
unprecedented event of Pilkington not furnishing
the desired article had upset their
calculations. Although the chance of a
find was believed to be slight, it was now
determined to call upon a long, narrow
osier bed, lying close b}, at the foot
of the hill on which the company were
assembled. So the field moved on, with
hopes somewhat dashed by their nonsuccess,
and by the almost certain prospect
of a long jog to the next covert. Whose
was the blame, they knew not, but they
felt injured and aggrieved. Hounds were
perhaps more reasonable than bipeds. At
all events they did not despond, and

were soon at work, drawing steadily and
well.

Five minutes passed without result.
The spirits of the company sank to zero.
Such a grand scenting morning as it
seemed, too, and by the afternoon all the
conditions might have changed. Was
there anything so unfortunate ? Since
Captain Straighten's death a spell of ill-luck
had attended the hunt, and appeared
likely to continue. So these giants of the
chase bewailed themselves, like so many
fretful and pampered children, who have
not learnt to put up with the buffets of
fate. Then, all of a sudden their whole
mental attitude underwent a transformation
; for from a dozen canine throats there
came ringing out the deep, familiar music,
which soon increased in volume, and made
the echoes resound to its melodious notes.
How cheering, how inspiriting they were
to that sad multitude ! Every face beamed,

the lines of every mouth relaxed in a
satisfied smile. Already their anticipations
proved correct, and scent was good at all
events in covert. Eeynard took one
swift turn up and down the whole length
of the osier bed, hoping by so doing to
baffle his pursuers ; but they were hot and
keen, and left him little peace. Very
shortly, finding the position untenable, he
resolved to trust to his lissome limbs, and
without further hesitation set his mask
straight towards the open, boldly despising
cowardly tactics. His long, red body,
with its bushy brush could be seen stealing
over the grass at a raid rate. A hundred
pairs of eyes viewed him, and half a score
of manly voices simultaneously uttered a
loud " Gone forrard away." If anything
could have persuaded the fox to make
haste, those shrill demoniacal yells would
have done so. They alone were sufficient
to strike terror to the vulpine heart, and

convince its owner of the necessity of
exertion.

Quick as lightning hounds dashed out of
covert, and getting away close at their
fox's heels, flung eagerly forwards, without
once stooping to the scent. But at this
juncture so critical to the interests of sport,
those who ought to have known better,
pressed and flurried the little ladies to such
an extent, that they caused them to throw
up their heads, before having had a chance
of fairly settling to the line.

Hounds, gentlemen, please'' pleaded
Burnett half angrily, half imploringly. *' For
goodness sake don't ride a-top of 'em.
Steady there, steady."

Momentary as was the check that ensued
indeed, hardly worthy of the name  it
had its use, since it gave Eeynard an
advantage, of which he promptly availed
himself. A little breathing room was
desirable, if only to choose his route and

the best mode of effecting an escape. And
now the fun began in earnest. Hounds,
after their brief uncertainty, raced ahead
with a vigour delightful to behold. Over
the huge hundred-acre field sped the pursuers,
like an avalanche let loose, scattering
in every direction ; some making off for the
roads, some for the nearest gate, and others
boldly pointing their horses' heads towards
an extremely hih and formidable-looking
stake-bound hedge, through which the
flying hounds had already disappeared. It
was a " snorter " at starting, as more than
one good man and brave seemed to think.
Horses, too, like their masters, require
warming, and prefer a reasonable impediment
to begin with. Fortunately there
was no time to look and crane for those
who would be with hounds. It was a case
of harden your heart or lose your place,
perhaps for the whole run.

Doctor Lankester, Dot and Bob had

been fortunate in getting away well, and
were riding all in a cluster, only a few
lengths behind Burnett, who, in order to
keep within sight of his hounds, was
sendinf] his horse alonoj with a right goodwill.


Kingfisher, revelling in the enjoyment of
stretching his limbs, was mad fresh, and
pulled so hard that it was just as much as
his rider could do to hold him. The fence
was a big one, especially for the first, on an
unknown horse. As they sailed down at
sit, it looked even bigger, the take-off side
being ornamented by a very wide and
deep-cut ditch, into whose depths had
been stuffed sundry recently-cut twigs from
the newly-plashed hedge. A stiff binder
ran all along the top, as thick round as a
man's wrist. He who had fashioned this
formidable man-trap was evidently an
adept in the art, and knew how to defy
hunters as well as long horned, broad-bowed

oxen. Anyhow, lie could not have
devised a much more efficient stopper. But
Kingfisher felt so wonderfully game and
eager under her that Dot never hesitated
for a moment. She judged, and judged
rightly, that all the gallant horse wanted
was to be close up with hounds, and in a
position where he could see them constantly.


Burnett rode first at the fence, but his
horse got a little too near the ditch, and inconsequence
just toed the top-binder, which,
not yielding an inch, caused him to pitch
heavily on landing, though his practised
and powerful rider soon recovered him.
Kingfisher, wild with excitement, almost
tore the reins out of Dot's hands. His proud
spirit could not brook the sight of one
of his own race in front of him. The girl
tried her very best to steady him, but was
not successful in the attempt. As the next
best thing, she gave him his head entirely.

resolving not to hinder if she could not
help.

Oh ! he had misjudged his distance.
His stride was wrong ! A horrible sensation
of calamity made her heart standstill.
He was bound to fall. Not he !

As soon as he saw that black fringe of
twigs under his feet, he put in just one
little step, and the next moment gave a
glorious bound and landed light as a
chamois on the opposite side, clearing
those ugly binders by at least half a
foot.

The warm blood surged back to Dot's
heart in a triumphant wave, and elated all
her being. She no longer mistrusted her
horse, but, on the contrary, felt a wonderful
confidence in him.

"AVell done, Dot!" Dr. Lankester
shouted out approvingly, as Sugarloaf
landed within a few yards of her. " That
was a nasty fence and no mistake. It is

astonishing how many people have been
choked off already."

His words were true, for numbers were
still coasting up and down, in search of a
more practicable place, letting the precious
minutes slip by rather than risk their
necks over so uncompromising an impediment.
Even when a fox is found, he does
not always afford unmitigated pleasure to
the majority.

Meantime Bob, after seeing Dot safely
over, followed her example without delay.
His horse made a magnificent fly, but the
rider did not adhere to his saddle quite as
closely as might have been desired by an
observant critic. However, the trio were
now together again, and felt well pleased
with their performance, especially when
they noticed the very select company of
which they formed a part. It had become
evident that this was no day for shirking.

Hounds were gliding along the green

pastures at racing pace  mute, but intent
on murder  and those who would be with
them must take fence for fence, exactly as
it came, without losing a single second in
search of the convenient gate. Even when
they came to a deep-ploughed field, which
stretched the girths of many a gallant
steed, the scent still held good  too good
some of the poor horses would have said,
whose sides were panting, and whose
nostrils were distended, till their outline
formed an acute angle, beneath which the
scarlet membrane showed clearly

Take a pull, Dot ; take a pull," shouted
the doctor, as his daughter careered past
him like an arrow shot from a bow. " It's
very heavy going, remember."

I would if I could, father, but I can't.
He's so desperately keen, and I can't hold
him," she called back in reply.

Dr. Lankester glanced at the chestnut's
beautiful thoroughbred form, with its cast-iron

muscles and long, sweeping stride,
which covered the ground with the ease
of machinery, and nodded his head reassuringly.
There was not much fear of
harm befalling her on such a horse, and, ashe
had prophesied, she had the ' legs " of
Sugarloaf, on whom the deep ground told.

Dot's feather weight seemed nothing to
Kingfisher. He had been accustomed to
carry close upon fourteen stone, and he
simply revelled in the difference. This
slight, brave girl was one after his own
heart. Her delicate handling was even
superior to his late master's, and did not
interfere with his sensitive mouth. Could
he but have given his testimony he doubtless
would have agreed with the well-known
authority who stated " that there wouldn't
be many falls if there were no bridles'*
Nine times out of ten it is the men
themselves who are responsible for their
mishaps, since they expect an animal to

jump held hard by the head  a sheer
impossibility.

Creak, crack, crash I Half-a-dozen resolute
riders charged the next fence in line.
It proved to be a blind double into a road,
and was productive of many noisy scrambles,
and still noisier objurgations as horses
floundered into the near or far ditches.
Again Dot would have preferred to pull
Kingfisher up to a trot and make him go
slowly, but being more or less at his mercy
she was forced to let him take it in his own
fashion.

And his majesty pleased to fly the
double, instead of popping on and ofl the
bank. But he flew it in brilliant form,
though he rather over-shot the mark, since
neither his rider nor himself was prepared
for another fence leading out of the road,
over which the pack had sped with almost
undiminished speed. In fact he was so
taken by surprise that for the first and last

time in his life lie almost refused. Almost,
but not quite !

For the generous blood of the Harley
Arabian which flowed through his veins
recoiled at such an act of cowardice,
especially when hounds were running hard,
as in the present instance. Quick as
lightning he changed his mind, and hopped
over like a stag. To Bob, who followed
close in his wake, no sign of hesitation was
visible. That brief moment of indecision
remained a secret between Kingfisher and
his rider, and one of which he already felt
ashamed as he galloped swiftly on.

But Dot was more and more delighted
with her steed, and leaning forwards cooed
words of soft encouragement in his ear.
So far the line had been an uncommonly
stiff one and that double into the road
caused almost as much " grief " as the
starting fence. Dot saw no less than five
riderless horses gallop past her, and, un-vol.
III. 35

charitable as it may sound, the sifht
increased her satisfaction, for it was impossible
to help feeling that she had succeeded
where others had failed ; although
she was fully alive to the fact that the
merit of the achievement belonged almost
entirely to the finished performer on which
Mr. Jarrett had been good enough to
mount her. Was he amoni: the fallen ?
She hoped not. He deserved a better fate.
No, close up galloped his good brown
hunter, whilst Sugarloaf's white face was
creeping along steadily but surely. Both
Mr. Jarrett and her father had surmounted
the difficulties of the double, and helped to
swell the numbers of the little but resolute
band now left with hounds. They were
not many ; only about a dozen as far as
she could tell, and she was the only lady.

Dot's pulses throbbed with pride ; this
was indeed a red-letter day in her existence.


IF YOU MEAN LEAPING, DON't LOOK LONG."

Eeynard, still finding himself hotly pursued,
and beginning perhaps to feel a little
beat by the pace, now bore away to the
right, making for that beautiful, level grass
country which spreads like a green spring-board
between Worthington and Crackle.
Fences here were of a fairer character
and, to experienced hunters, rendered easy
by the good, sound turf that formed such
admirable taking-off and landis. No need
to do follow-my-leader now. With a few
exceptions half-a-dozen practicable spots
presented themselves in every hedge, and
the leaders sailed over each successive
obstacle without drawing rein. For the

35*

space of ten minutes it was more like
steeplechasing than hunting. As they
raced side by side horses laid back their
ears, and evidently enjoyed the emulation
as much as did their masters.

To Dot, the relief of being able to stride
aloof was immense. She could now let
Kingfisher gallop, and rest her over-strained
arms, the muscles of which had for sometime
past been quivering under the unaccustomed
tension. The gallant horse
stretched out his neck and snatched gaily
at the bit. A real fast things was what he
revelled in, and he felt satisfied at last.
With his fine blue eye fixed on the leading
hounds, and turning of his own accord, to
the right or to the left, exactly as he saw
them bend, lie maintained a forward place
throughout.

Between Dot and himself a complete
sympathy was by this time established.
He had lone: since realized that she meant

'going," and would neither irritate this
mouth nor baffle him at his fences, and she,
on her part, had discovered his pulling
arose solely from keenness and extra
anxiety, and that he was in all respects a
most brilliant and clever hunter. The
worst of it was, she could not help
breaking the tenth commandment, and
wishing he were her very own ; for when
other horses were falling to the rear, and
holding out signals of exhaustion, it was
such a delightful and intoxicating sensation
to feel that Kingfisher could easily maintain
his speed without distressing himself in the
slightest degree, since whilst his companions
were galloping he was only cantering.

This knowledge added still more to Dot's
elation. Her eyes sparkled, her cheeks
were adorned by a warm flush that made
them very beautiful to look at, and her
small mouth opened in panting ecstasy.
Oh! this was glorious. The enjoyment of

a lifetime seemed compressed into these
fleeting minutes. She felt a different being,
transported out of her usual, quiet, humdrum
self. Such a run made one believe
that life was worth living, and was a rich
and inestimable blessing for which people
themselves were to be blamed if they did
not enjoy. Danger! Who thought of
damper when the blood coursed like wildfire
in one's veins, and one's whole being
thrilled with the rapture of the chase ?
How strange that same rapture was, too,
when one came to reflect upon it. All the
host of horsemen and women, all the staff
and retinue and expense, all the emulation,
the heart-burnings. the ambition, the short-lived
triumphs and long remembered disappointments,
just for a little red animal.
Wherein did the attraction and fascination
consist ? It was a species of madness, buta
madness more insidious and exciting than
any known pleasure. The sense of pure

animal enjoyment was so great. And yet
when the day was done, when the fever had
cooled and the chase over, what gain did it
bring ! what profit to the mind ? Very
little, if the answer were given truthfully.
Bumps and blows and bruises to the body,
and nought, or next to nought, to the
brain.

Some such thoughts flashed thrush
Dot's mind as she continued her victorious
career and tried to analyze the strength
and keenness of her emotions. But it was
no time for introspective reflections.
Another fence loomed ahead, and she
promptly had to abandon them. There
was a burning scent on the grass.
The pace increased until it became something
terrific, and the company rapidly
grew more and more select. A hurried,
backward view revealed a tail nearly a
mile in length, and the fields were dotted
with black and scarlet specks, labouring

along as best they could, and riding that
hardest of all hard rides  a stern chase.

Those immediately with hounds might
have been counted on the fingers of one's
two hands. On the left was Burnett, his
horse showing unmistakable symptoms of
having had enough. In his rear, a gallant
cavalry officer, and a hard-riding farmer,
mounted on a wonderful screw, that for
several seasons past had scoffed at three
and four hundred guinea hunters, with
their sound limbs too good for use, and
their big bodies full of thirty-three shillings
a quarter oats. To the right, trying hard
to maintain his pride of place, yet with the
pace all the time against him, Doctor
Lankester cut out the work, and continued
to make a gallant struggle on his good
grey mare. But her elevated tail and
drooping head showed that her bolt also
was nearly shot, unless an opportune check
took place soon to enable her to get her

wind. Sugarloaf was fast, but not a racer,
and she had been asked to go at topmost
speed for the last twenty minutes ; only her
stout heart had kept her in the van so long.
A solitary attendant followed the doctor's
fortunes, a lad of sixteen or seventeen,
riding a thoroughbred horse with a
pedigree a yard long, who was being
qualified for hunt steeplechases, and who,
in spite of having embraced mother earth,
was still to the fore.

The central group consisted of Bob
Jarrett and a remarkably select contingent.
Served by the excellence of his nag, the
former had for some time past gallantly
shown the way to his immediate division,
which consisted only of Dot Lankester and
two well-known members of the hunt.
Bob was riding a young blood-hunter of
very superior quality, else he could never
have held his own.

But what he wanted in experience he

made up for in " pluck," and Dot could not
help admiring the lion-hearted manner in
which on one or two occasions he led the
whole field. Courage always appeals to a
woman. There are few things for which
she entertains a greater liking and respect.
Let her once convict a man of cowardice,
and she never thinks the same of him
again. He may be ever so nice, in a
hundred different ways, but henceforth she
invariably views him with a certain
amount of contempt. Bob's nerve won
him golden opinions from Dot, and once
or twice her smile of approbation made his
heart beat fast with rising hope.

And now, this bold, stout-hearted fox,
finding that as long as he kept to the grass
his enemies pressed upon him closer and
closer, resolved to make one last bid for his
brush. He therefore tried the effect of a
little dodging. No doubt he was pretty
well done, and. therefore hailed the close

proximity of a village with thanksgiving.
A few ingenious turns and twists mijlit
baffle his mortal foes even at the eleventh
hour.

So he carefully wended his way through
gardens and farmyards, past cottages and
barns and outhouses. Yet the shelter he
sought he could not find. None seemed
entirely safe, not even that old, hollow tree
standing in an orchard, whose roots had
formed many little tortuous tunnels under
the brown earth. Possibly, spades and fox-terriers
flashed across his mind's eye.

Nevertheless, he succeeded in embarrassing
his pursuers, and in obtaining
a few minutes' respite. Just five and forty
minutes after he had left the osier-bed,
hounds threw up their heads, and looking
uncertainly about them, came to a sudden
halt within one field of Marlborough
village. Horsemen flun themselves from
their panting steeds, and critically examined

scratched legs and spur-marked sides,
holding the bridles in their hands so as to
be able to remount at any moment. But
the poor nags seemed in no hurry to renew
their exertions  quivering tails, heaving
flanks, outstretched necks, told a sad tale
of distress in the majority of cases.

Meantime, hounds were feathering about
in several directions, with noses and sterns
both busy. Burnett let them try to puzzle
it out, but they failed to take up the line.
Then, with a ringing cheer and a " hic
forrard, forrard, m} beauties ! " he lifted
them, and made a scientific cast, whilst his
followers watched the proceedings without
moving, and wondered how the dickens it
was, that in ten good runs out of a dozen,
those infernal roadsters invariably contrived
to turn up just when they were not wanted,
and did the greatest possible amount of
mischief. Helter - skelter, gallop - gallop,
here they come, clattering over the stony

macadam at topmost speed, and with a
ruthless disregard for joints and sinews.
Such a noise as they made too. A regiment
of soldiers would have appeared
silent as mice in comparison.

Of course they headed the fox. That
was a foregone conclusion, for was there
ever a roadster who didn't ? But to this
fact the whole tribe are contemptuously indifferent.
They don't go out to hunt but
to gallop. Not on the grass, mind you.
Not over the spacious green fields where
they could do little harm. No ; they are
afraid. They might come across mole-hills,
or rabbit-holes, or even have to jump, an
idea which makes the blood in their veins
run cold. Only on the road do they feel
safe from all such horrid possibilities, and
therefore to the road do they cleave, like
limpets to a rock. But we will give the
mighty army of roadsters their due, and todo
them justice, they can talk. Not one of

the number who has not some marvellous
experiences to record, and who is not
supremely satisfied with his individual
performances. Perhaps it is only natural
that the men who have jumped every fence
as it came, without shirking, who have
imperilled their limbs, if not their necks,
and made acquaintance with mother earth
in her hardest and most disagreeable form
namely, when she rises up and greets you
between the eyes  should harbour a contemptuous
hostility against the spiritless
babblers who come swarming around the
moment all danger is over.

But by this time Burnett had succeeded
in hitting off the line of his fox. Whilst
trotting down a road the hounds suddenly
stopped, and one by one, creeping under a
stiff, hog-backed stile, once more threw
their tongues in deadly fashion, which
made all the dismounted gentlemen leap to
their horse's backs, tossing away just lit

cigars and half tasted sandwiches. Perhaps
they would not have been in quite such a
hurry had they known what a formidable
obstacle awaited them.

Their ardour had cooled a little, and few
of the horses displayed much spirit. They
would have preferred some extra minutes'
repose, but it was not to be. In spite of
the pace, Eeynard had still a fair share of
life left in him.

Nevertheless, that same hog-backed stile
was by no means a pleasing prospect to
tired out animals still catching their
breath. Yet there was not any other egress,
the fence on either side being quite seven
feet high, and as thick and solid as a stonewall.
The things had to be done, but nobody
liked to attempt it first. Even
Burnett paused, though the exhausted
condition of his horse rendered the delay
not merely wise, but imperative. If only
hounds would check. But no; they stole

ahead with renewed confidence, every now
and again one or other of them giving
tongue, and all their bristles up, as if their
fox were quite close in front.

Doctor Lankester was a brave man,
and, in spite of his forty odd years, had
nerves of iron. His blood was up. Sugar-loaf
happened to be particularly good at
timber, and she had in a measure regained
her wind. His daughter and Mr. Jarrett
were among the little anxious throng who
blocked the roadway. (The roadsters had
already galloped off.)

Dot knew the meaning of that keen
sparkle in her father's eye, accompanied by
a sudden contraction of the brow. It
signified business.

You are not going to jump it, are you,
papa ? " she inquired with some uneasiness.


Yes," came the resolute reply. Then,
looking round, he sang out, quoting the

Australian poet, poor Adam Lindsay
Gordon, for whose verses lie entertained a
great admiration :

Look before you leap if you like,

But if you mean leaping, don't look long,
Or the weakest place will soon grow stiff,
And the strongest doubly strong."

Give me a little room, there's good
fellows," he wound up persuasively.

And with that he went at the stile.

A tremendous rattle. Sugarloaf hit all
round, but the pair were over with a
scramble. Doctor Lankester looked back
to see who would follow his example. It
was a very awkward leap after so long and
fast a run. Still, was nobody coming ?

Yes, there was one, and one moreover of
his own kith and kin. He shuddered and
closed his eyes. The girl inherited her
father's spirit, but he had rather she had
been less brave. He tried to call out and
tell her not to come, but Dot had already
started.

VOL III. 36

She set Kingfisher resolutely at the stile,
and just touched him-with her hunting crop.
Bob uttered an exclamation of alarm,
which immediately changed to one of admiration,
for the noble hunter, getting his
leofs well under him, bounded with the
lightness and springiness of a fawn over
the stiff, unyielding timber, giving a playful
grunt of satisfaction as he landed. Dot
patted his swelling neck enthusiastically.
He was a king among hunters.

Oh, you beauty ! You are a real
ripper ! " she exclaimed, using a slang expression
for want of any better to convey
the full warmth of her sentiments.

Bob felt he should despise himself if he
were outdone by a woman, but more
especially by such a. slight, delicate-bodied
little thing. Besides, he could not bear tolet
her out of his sight. His love was
rapidly becoming a vehement passion.
Therefore he also rode at the stile, but

he went at it a little too fast, and giving
his horse a job in the mouth, flurried him
unnecessarily. As a consequence, Paragon
caught the top bar with both knees, and
executed a complete somersault, for some
little time lying quite motionless where he
fell.

When Bob rose from the ground he
found that Dot had pulled up, and was
looking commiserating down at him, with
an air of anxious pity disquieting her sweet,
young face.

Oh, Mr. Jarrett ! " she cried, " are you
hurt ? "

No, not a bit," he answered cheerily.
"Don't wait for me; I'm all right, and
hounds are still running. I shall be in at
the death yet. You go on."

As he turned to put his foot in the
stirrup  Paragon fortunately having stood
still after his fall  Bob suddenly became
aware of the fact that a pair of very blue

36*

ejes were staring at him from the road
with an exceedingly scornful and outraged
expression. Their owner wore a scarlet
jacket, and had arrived on the scene justin
time to witness Dot Lankester's bold
jump and Bob's unsuccessful attempt to
follow suit.

"You'd have done much better if you
had taken my advice, and stuck to the
roads," she called out sarcastically, and
with no evidence of concern at his mishap.

I don't think so, sour ladyship, though
I admit that it's all a matter of opinion."

Who's your friend ? " she rejoined, in a
tone which made his blood boil.

But he ignored this interrogation
altogether, and galloped off in pursuit of
the hounds, who were quite a couple of
fields ahead, gaining inch by inch upon the
failing quarry, whose aim was now evident
to those acquainted with the country.
As his last resource, poor Pug was

gallantly trying to make for some earths
about two miles distant from Smallborouorh,
in whose safe depths many a hunted fox
had ere now saved his brush. Would he
reach them or would he not ? If he did,
should he find them open or closed? How
his vulpine heart must have beat with
anxiety. For the answer to this question
meant life or death to him.

The poor little red animal was very, very
weary. His beautiful brush was all draggled
and soiled, his limbs were stiff, his
body damp with perspiration.

Hounds, horses, men, all were against
him, and yet for the best part of an hour he
had defied them with indomitable energy.

Surely he deserved his life. If foxes
must pay the penalty, then let the bad ones
go, and leave the good, straight-running,
stout-hearted fellows for another day.

They are not so plentiful that we should
slay them willingly, or rejoice when we do

SO. Courage, even in the much-maligned
thief of the world," merits some recognition.
A good fox plays a desperate game,
and if he wins, none should grudge him
the victory. In any case, the pains and
terrors of death have been anticipated.

Only an animal," say some. '' It does
not matter whether it suffers or not."

Perhaps so ; yet how know these good
folk, with their narrow-minded positivism,
that man differs from the brute creation as
greatly as they flatter themselves ? There
are some very strange points of similitude ;
amongst others the burden of pain which
every living thing has to bear, and which
incontestably connects beast and biped.
Life is painful, so is death, to all creatures
created by God.

The hunted animal straining every nerve
to escape from his tormentors, may not
possess a soul, according to our sense of
the word, but yet he feels.

Ein TO GROUND.

Dot LxVnkester for one, had no wish to seethe
poor fox killed. Her tender heart
recoiled from any approach to cruelty, and,
much as she delighted in the fun, the
movement and excitement of hunting, the
final obsequies always brought a sense of
depression, not wholly free from disgust.
Her sympathies were invariably with the
blain, not the slayers. If the chase could
have been conducted without destroying
life, she would have liked it even better
than she did, for she never could bear to
witness the tortured creature's dying
struggles, or the subsequent dismemberment
of his stiffened body. Well and

pluckily as she rode to hounds, she was
essentially feminine by nature, and had alla
true woman's sympathy with and compassion
for suffering in every shape or

form.

Therefore it was an intense relief to her
feelings when, too closely pressed to reach
the earths already spoken of, Pug, to the
infinite disappointment of huntsman and
hounds, succeeded in gaining the shelter
of an unsuspected drain, running across one
corner of a large grass field. For several
minutes previously the eager pack had
raced him in full view of the scarcely less
easier field. Horses and men alike caught
the enthusiasm of their canine friends. The
air rang with different cries proceeding from
many throats, human and otherwise. Twice
old Merry lass, always foremost in the fray,
and leading by a good couple of lengths,
snapped at him, and almost rolled him
over. Despair lent him fresh fleetness of

foot, but such supreme effort could not be
maintained. It seemed any odds against
the fox. Fifty seconds more, and they
must have had him, when suddenly he
disappeared from vision.

A dismal howl burst from his thwarted
foes, as with hanging tongues and open
jowls, they gathered round the small
aperture through which their prey had
squeezed, but which would not allow of
the passage of their larger bodies. They
felt themselves baffled when most they
deserved success, and took the disappointment
sorely to heart, as their angry and
excited baying testified.

Once more horsemen dismounted, and
horses opened their heated nostrils to the
refreshing breeze, and stood panting, whilst
the white foam on their sides and necks
gradually hardened and grew stiff. Then
watches were produced from waistcoat
pockets and compared minutely.

After some consultation, it was agreed
that this fine run, including the slight
check at the commencement, and the
longer one in Smallborough village, had
lasted exactly one hour and a half ; the
first forty-five minutes at racing pace, the
remainder slower, but still sufficiently fast
to tax the powers of most ordinary hunters.
Of the stoutness and gallantry of the fox
there could be no two opinions, since
Burnett was confident he was the same
animal that had been viewed away from
the osier-bed. Even those most murderously
inclined admitted that so gallant a
fellow deserved his life ; but huntsmen are
proverbially a blood-thirsty race, actuated
by few sentiments of pity, and Burnett
was no exception to the rule. His
humanity was completely subordinate to
the love he bore his hounds, and he
could not bear to see his darlings deprived
of their due. The better they had hunted,

the more they merited reward. They
deserved blood, and blood  if it were
possible  he was determined they should
have, and for himself another mask to
hang up over the kennel door.

Therefore one of the whips was immediately
despatched to borrow spades and a
terrier. He shortly reappeared on the
scene, accompanied by a small army of
idle men and boys, who had gleefully
sallied forth from Smallborouo'h in order
to watch the chase, and who now set to
work with a will at either end of the
drain, which they sought to enlarge. As is
usual on such occasions, every one had
either an opinion or advice to offer. After
a while, the proceedings, being unattended
by success, grew wearisome to a degree.
No amount of digging could persuade
Eeynard to bolt. He altogether declined
a fresh contest, preferring to endure a
martyrdom of terror rather than face that

row of cruel, wide-open mouths, with their
hot breath and sharp white teeth.

When over half-an-hour had gone by,
and some significant grumbling began to
be heard amongst the best subscribers to
the hunt, Burnett was at length reluctantly-forced
to give the fox up.

It was too soon to go home, so, though
hounds and horses had had pretty well
enough, Lord Littelbrane resolved to draw
again ; a decision which met with the
approval of the majority.

When this was finally settled and people
began to move ofT, Dot, who had been
talking to some friends, rode up to Bob's
side and said :

Mr. Jarrett, I come to you for instructions."


"What about," he replied. "I hope
you do not look upon me as a mentor."

Oh ! dear no ; but as I am riding your
horse I do not like to keep him out longer

than you tliirik fit. Therefore will you tell
me honestly if I ought to go home ? "

And will you tell me in the same frank
and candid spirit, whether you yourself are
tired?"

I ? Not a bit. I mean," endeavouring
to be strictly truthful, " only a very little."

And you would like just to see what
hounds do, of course. Come, Miss Lankester,
confess."

Well, yes, I should ; if you don't mind
about Kingfisher."

Mind ? Why should I mind ? As far
as 1 can judge he is fresher than any other
horse that went through the run. He
makes nothing of your weight."

I don't think you could do the horse
any harm by staying out a little longer,
Dot," here interposed her father, who had
overheard the above conversation. " Lord
Littelbrane has given Burnett orders to
draw Hawthorne, which is all on our way

home, and if the hounds don't find there,
they are bound to jog back in the direction
of the kennels. So let's be starting. Our
horses have 2fot cold enough as it is. That
digging-out work is always detestable."

Hounds and huntsman now made a fresh
move, followed by a procession, considerably
diminished since the morning, though
what it wanted in quantity it made up for
in quality those who remained to test the
further fortunes of the day being mostly
good men and true.

Burnett let the hounds proceed at a
leisurely pace. They still seemed tired
after their recent exertions, and a bit down-hearted
at the escape of their fox, on whom
they had surely counted. Neither did the
old hunters present appear to approve of
this new call on their powers. After being
at fever-heat their blood had got thoroughly
chilled, from standing about so loncf in the
cold afternoon air, and many of them

seemed very stiff and weary, their morning
ardour having entirely evaporated.

Bob had been looking about for his
second horseman, who, up till now, had
failed to put in an appearance, but just as
the cavalcade was jogging slowly along
through Smallborough, and the public-houses
were being besieged by a thirsty
host for beer, or anything they could
produce in the way of drink, he spied him
issuing from a back yard, and immediately
changed horses.

Paragon had probably sprained himself
when he fell, for he was now quite lame,
and Bob felt only too glad to get off his
back, since nothing is more trying to the
feelings of a humane man than to be forced
to ride a tired and halting animal. That
irregular bobbing up and down of the ears
is a most unpleasant sight to tender-hearted
people.

By the time Bob had scolded his groom

for not having come up with the others,
given him strict orders not to take Paragon
out of a walk, and made friends with this
fresh steed  a very handsome bay, with
rather a wicked eye  he had fallen some
little way in the rear of his companions.
He was just emerging from the yard where
he had mounted, with the intention of
making up lost ground, when, to his
infinite discomfiture, he found himself
suddenly accosted by no less a person than
Lady De Fochsey. He smothered an
exclamation of annoyance.

Nemesis seemed to pursue him in the
shape of this woman, and he blamed
himself a thousand times for ever having
been such a weak fool as to give her
encouragement, when he knew quite well
in his own heart that she was, and always
would be, absolutely indifferent to him.
I3ut he would take precious good care how
he did so ao-ain. He wanted none of her

specious entanglements and artificial love-making.
He might, perhaps, have forgiven
her for being silly, but he could not
forgive her for being? a bore. Oh! if
Lady De Fochsey could have read his
thoughts !

But her ladyship also nourished a
grievance, and felt she had a crow to
pluck with her quondam friend. He had
been singularly inattentive throughout the
day, and being both piqued and indignant
she wanted to know the reason wdiy her
spiritual affinity had not responded more
readily to the advances graciously made
him. Were they of too delicate and
impalpable a nature ? She could hardly
believe it.

Though caring for hunting more on
account of the society than the sport. Lady
De Fochsey went fairly well at times,
especially when she wished to impress an
admirer with her powers of equitation.
VOL. ]ir. 37

She had been quite ready to do this in
Bob's case, had he but given her a chance
and displayed just a little consideration ;
but that stake-bound fence was a size too
big, and choked her off at starting. As
well as she could, she had sedulously-striven
to keep an eye upon the young
inane but her jealousy had not been fully
aroused until she witnessed his attempt to
follow Dot Lankester out of the road andover
the stile. Having scuttled round by
a gate, and the concluding portion of the
run being over a comparatively easy
country, she had ridden the line after a
fashion.

True, forty or fifty people going first,
contrived to divest the fences of much of
their stiffness, but still her ladyship was
near enough to hounds to be able to see
what the leaders were about. And each
time she looked she saw her medium  her
annuity  her precious psychological educator,

ridings with that little insignificant
slip of a girl on the chestnut horse.

Who could this young person be ? She
Lady De Foclisey  had not the slightest
kno ,pledge of her, had never even noticed
her out hunting before, though of course
had it not been for Mr. Jarrett's absurd conduct,
there was no reason why she should.

The young person  it pleased her to
designate her enemy thus  evidently moved
in a humble social sphere. She was a
nobody. Why ? Oh ! because of her
get up." The tail of Dot's habit-body
(Lady De Foclisey never had an opportunity
of seeing the front) was cut in a fashion
quite four years old, and moreover it was
ornamented by four buttons below the
waist instead of two ; a thing which, in the
eyes of a lady who wore " pink," stamped
the owner at once. Every woman in
society knew that four buttons had gone
out ever so long? ao, indeed that they had

never met with approval amongst the elite.
Dot's habit proclaimed her insignificance.

All the same, Lady De Fochsey scented
a rival, and was agitated by the mere
suspicion of Mr. Jarrett's proving indifferent
to her own charms. It would be beyond a
joke if, when for the first and last time in
her life she had fallen desperately in love
with a man, because she recognised in him
certain lofty attributes which harmonized
with her own nature, that man were to
have the audacity and the inconceivable
bad taste to get up a flirtation with another
woman right under her very nose. The
thing must be inquired into, and ime :lately.


Well ! Mr. Jarrett," she exclaimed
with forced amiability. " I have hardly
had a word with you to-day."

He bowed. *' No, your ladyship.
Hounds have kept us otherwise employed."


Ah ! those hounds. I don't know
whether to feel angry with them or not.
But, no matter. Have you enjoyed
yourself ? "

Exceedingly, up to the present
moment."

You have friends staying with you,
have you not ? " she inquired, as they
trotted on at a brisk pace.

Oh, dear, no," he answered, thrown
off his guard. " What made you think
so ?"

Isn't the beautiful being staying at
Straighten! with whom you haVe been
riding about all day long, to the total
exclusion of your other acquaintances ? "
She could not help infusing a little vinegar
into the interrogation.

I have hardly any acquaintances
except yourself, and really," reddening to
the roots of his hair, " I do not know
whom you mean by the ' beautiful being.' "

Oh ! nonsense, don't pretend to be so
innocent. You know quite well that I'm
talking about that little dowdy girl, in the
funny old-fashioned habit, which looks
as if it belonged to some antediluvian
period."

Bob bit his lips, but made no reply.
To tell the truth, he was too much annoyed
to speak, unless absolutely obliged. But
his companion left him no peace.

Who is she ? " she persisted, bent on
satisfying her curiosity'.

She is what every woman is not," he
rejoined shortly, " a lady."

It was her turn to colour now. The
words mii:rht have meant nothing, but she
did not exactly like them, especially coming
from him.

"Oh! of course," she retaliated with a
toss of her head. " One takes that for
granted, but even if she is a lady, I
suppose so remarkable a fact, and one I

should never have guessed without being
told, does not prevent her from having a

name."

"Xo, naturally it does not."

Well? dear me, how tiresome you are,
what is it ? "

"Lankester," said Bob with extreme
reluctance, wishing he misfht sink into the
earth; or she might sink into the earth, so
as to put an end to this odious and embarrassing
cross-examination.

"What!" exclaimed Lady De Fochsey
sneeringly. " The wife of the little doctor
who rides so hard, and who, now I come to
think of it, lives in your village ? "

Neo, not the wife ; the daughter."

"The daughter. But, my dear Bob,
that's ever so much worse."

I really can't see why," he retorted, beginning
to lose his temper.

Can't you. A flirtation with a married
woman in so humble a sphere may be

ridiculous, but it is not likely to have any
serious consequences."

I don't know what you mean b}
serious consequences,' " he said angrily.

She lifted up her head and looked him
straight in the face.

Bob'' she said impressively, " I think
you know me well enough by this time to
be aware how thoroughly I have your
interest at heart."

I am sure you are very good," he
mumbled sheepishly, not knowing exactly
what to say in return.

*' Not at all, but I intend to presume
upon our friendship to give you some
sensible advice, which I hope you will
take in the same spirit as it is meant."

Thanks, you are awfully kind, Lady De
Fochsey ; but really, I'm not particularly
fond of advice."

'* Never mind, it's for your good."

BOB AND HIS Kindred SPIRIT FALL OUT.

*' Advice generally is for one's good, in the
opinion of the giver, though not always
in that of the recipient," he said
plaintively.

Now, look here Bob, if you don't
look out, you'll end by making a fool of
yourself."

Thank you, Lady De Fochsey. Is
that what you wanted to say ? "

Partly, but not entirely ; I wish to bring
the fact home to your mind. You have
evidently taken some sort of silly, boyish
fancy to this young person whose name is
Lankester "

Miss Lankester," he interrupted sternly.

"Well, Miss Lankester, if you like it
better," she resumed, a little frightened by
his tone ; " we need not quarrel about a
mere matter of nomenclature. But what
T intended to say was this : It won't do,"
looking at him fixedly ; " you'll have to
drop it."

If she had been a man, he could have
struck her. As it was, he made a powerful
effort, and curbed his wrath sufficiently
to say, with what was meant for biting
sarcasm :

"I'm much obliged to your ladyship,
and if all advice were like yours its frankness
would atone for its singularity. But
allow me to state that it is quite uncalled
for."

"Bob, Bob, don't be so foolish and stiffened."


I may be foolish, but I am not stiffened."


Yes, you are  both. You are falling

into a regular trap, and wilfully shutting
your e3es to facts."

Trap is a very strong word to employ."

It may be, but it's the only one that
correctly expresses the state of affairs.
Those people are making a most shameful
set at }'ou, especially the girl  little impudent
minx ! "

No such thing," he said indignantly.
You are very much mistaken there."

Her ladyship gave a superior smile, which
seemed to say, " Tut, it's absurd to deny
the truth. You can't deceive me ; I'm far
too sharp." Then she said with ever increasing:
animation :

The fact of the matter is. Bob, you are
new to English life, and don't understand
all the petty plotting and scheming that
goes on in our country villages to secure a
rich young man with twelve or fifteen
thousand a year, for a husband. No doubt
it woukl be a very excellent tiling for Miss

Lankester, the doctor's (laughter, to become
Mrs. Robert Jarrett, and mistress of
Straighten Court. But looking upon it
impartial, would it be quite so excellent
a thing for Mr. Eobert Jarrett? There
can be but one answer to that question.
Certainly not. Mr. Jarrett would lose by
the connection, and do himself an infinity
of harm. This is a very fastidious neighbourhood.
Fortune has placed you in an
elevated position, but if you wish not to
disgrace that position, and to get on in the
county, sou must marry some one of birth
belonging to your own station, instead of
the first little nobody who happens to take
your fancy. Bob, dear Bob," haying her
hand on his horse's mane for a second, and
looking coaxingly up into his face, "I
don't think you ought to have much
difficulty in finding a suitable person, if
you are really and truly desirous of getting
married."

He was by no means a vain man, yet ashe
bashfully turned away his head, so as
to avoid her winning glances, he could not
prevent certain embarrassing thoughts
from flashing? across his brain. If he were
not very prudent in his conduct, this
woman was quite capable of getting him
into a most horrible mess almost before he
knew what he was about ; she was so
artful, so insinuating, so  so S7iake-\ike.
He was fiercely vexed, too, at having his
secret dragged to light and dissected in
this ruthless manner. Had he been sure
of Dot's sentiments, it might not have
mattered so much, but as things were,
it was insufferable hearing his affairs
discussed.

I don't care twopence whether I get on
in the county or not," he said irritably.
And as for getting married  surely one
may speak to a girl without being immediately
accused of making love to her."

I said that this Miss Lankester was
making love to you."

Then, Lady De Fochsey, you said what
was not true, and I must ask you not to
repeat the remark."

Hoity, toity ! What a temper you've
got, to be sure. It strikes me the ' beautiful
being ' has played her cards uncommonly
well, to have produced so great an
impression in so short a space of time."

Lady De Fochsey was aware of the fact
that in letting her jealousy get the better
of her prudence, she was only losing
ground, but she could not help herself.
She was too angry and too mortified to be
wise.

"You don't seem to understand," said
Bob, trying to allay .his companion's suspicions,
" that it is but natural I should
feel gratefully inclined towards the only
people who have shown me any civility
since I set foot in Stifl'shire."

Here was an opening of wliicli she
promptly took avail.

Oh ! Bob ! how can you say such a
thing ? Have not / shown you civility,
and  and  " lowering her voice to a
caressing whisper  " would not I show
you ever so much more, if only you would
let me ? It is you who are stand-ofF, not
me."

There's a great difference between being
stand-ofF and being too gushing," he
replied with downright brutality, feeling
that this must be put a stop to at once if
he would retain his liberty of action.

The remark incensed her beyond measure,
proving as it did, that she had completely
failed to produce any permanent impression.

I suppose you mean to imply that /
am too gushing, because I was foolish
enough to think you a kindred spirit. Let
me assure you, I have quite recovered
from the delusion." And she drew herself

up and looked at him with flashing eyes ;
for this last observation of his had offended
her past forgiveness.

Indeed, Lady De Fochsey, I had no
intention of hurting your feelings."

"Pooh! my feelings" (hysterically).
What do you care for them ? Go to
your doctor's daughter, since you have the
bad taste to prefer her to me. I shall rise
high in the astral plane, but you  you will
sink, dragged down by your low connections,
and in all probability reappear in some
future existence as a donkey or an ape.
That will be your fate, and one most richly
deserved, for you possessed possibilities of
ennoblement, and refused to develop them ;
opportunities of psychic'culture were given
you, but your base, sensual, material nature
triumphed over thediviner elements, and
3'ou proved yourself unworthy. Good-bye,
Mr. Barrett ; I have done with you for ever.
Some day, when my free and emancipated

spirit is soaring in waves of ether, yours
will be prisoned in a low, bestial form,
degraded and debased by your own fault,
and by your wilful insensibility to elevating
influences."

And so saying, the outraged and
'' charming " woman rode swiftly away,
leaving her companion in a state of utter
bewilderment. What had he done to
provoke her wrath ? Again and again he
tried to assign a reason. He could not
believe that jealousy alone was responsible
for such extraordinary behaviour, and
finally fell back upon the conclusion that
most decidedly she had a bee in her bonnet.
Well ! he had got rid of her at any rate,
which was something, though he was sorry
an actual rupture should have taken place.
Still he scarcely blamed himself. Her
ladyship's conduct from first to last had
been eccentric, embarrassing and impossible.
VOL. III. 38

Was it his fault that he could not respond
to her advances, or profess a belief in all
the spiritualistic shams she employed, as a
cloak to sanctify her flirtations ? He
hardly thought so. Anyhow a good
hunting run of three quarters of an
hour soon caused him to dismiss the
matter from his mind  at least temporarily.

When the chase was over, and the
Lankesters turned their horses' heads
towards home, he immediately followed
suit. He was beginning to feel almost
like one of the family, and the day's
sport had done a great deal to consolidate
friendship on either side.

In Doctor Lankester's presence, the conversation
could not assume a very personal
character and almost as if she were conscious
of this fact, Dot chatted away with
unusual freedom and gaiety.

Are you coming to our hunt steeplechases,
Mr. Jarrett ? " she inquired, after

every incident of the two runs had been
fully discussed with retrospective satisfaction.


What races ? " he asked, making the
question an excuse to sidle close up to
Kingfisher.

"TheMorbey Anstead meeting. It comes
off at the end of next week."

This is the first I've heard of it. You
see how remiss I am in the county news.
Are you going by any chance ? " glancing
shyly at her.

I haven't an idea. It depends so much
upon papa. But I should like to go
immensely."

Bob made no immediate reply. He was
maturing a most delightful plan which,
at her words, seized strong hold of his
imagination, and opened out fresh opportunities
of meeting.

Look here, doctor," he said after a bit,
you and your daughter and Mrs.

?)8*

Lankester had much better come to these
races with me. It's no use our going in
separate traps when we live so close to one
another. There's a big old omnibus in my
coach-house, which would be just the thing
for a day's outing, and of course I'll
provide lunch, drink and all the rest of it.
Eh ! what do you say to the proposition ? "

An excellent one, as far as the
Lankester family are concerned," replied
the doctor heartily, who by this time had
conceived a wonderful fancy for Bob, and
accepted this offer of hospitality without
any feelings of false pride. " I think I can
answer for Dot, and as for myself, next to
a day's hunting, there's nothing I like more
than a day's steeplechasing, if only I can
leave my patients."

That's settled, then," said Bob. " Miss
Dot," turning to the girl, " I count upon
you not to forget the arrangement, or to
throw nie over at the last moment."

Very well, Mr. Jarrett," she replied,
thinking how kind and good-natured he
was. " I shall endeavour to prove that
your confidence is not misplaced. But you
will spoil us if you go on at this rate."

They continued their homeward journey
until the red-brick houses of Straighten
village peered through the misty twilight.
The moment had come to part. Bob
reluctantly held out his hand. The doctor
wrung it warmly. His wife's statement
was quite forgotten, therefore he could
behave naturally.

Good-bye, Jarrett," he exclaimed. " I
am sorry this pleasant day has come to an
end."

And so am I," rejoined Bob ; " but I
hope we shall spend many similar ones in
each other's company. Good-bye, Miss
Dot," with the blood surging to his cheek.
"Have you also enjoyed yourself"

Immensely," she replied enthusiastically.

Tien, feeling that she could not let
him go without expressing her gratitude in
more orthodox form, she added in tones
full of genuine emotion :

I shall look back to to-day all my life,
and I only wish, Mr. Jarrett, that I could
thank you properly for your kindness, but
that is impossible ; nevertheless, believe
me, I appreciate it none the less."

Tut ! Don't make me feel uncomfortable
by exalting an ordinary act of
friendship into one of generosity. And
look here. Miss Dot, now that you have
made Kingfisher's acquaintance, and he has
proved himself worthy of the honour of
carrying you to hounds, I want you to
take him whenever you like. From this
moment consider him yours, to do exactly
what you please with ; I shan't ride him
this winter."

Oh ! but, Mr. Jarrett, indeed you must.
Why ! he is your best horse."

All the more reason for you to have
him. He will stand in my stables, because
he is used to them, and I have promised
old Matthews never to part with him
actually; but whenever you want to go
hunting, even if your father cannot come,
just send me word, and Kingfisher shall be
ready."

As she looked at Bob's honest face, and
with a pang of pain noted the admiration
shining from his eyes, the tears insensibly
welled up into her own. She was deeply
touched  more even than she liked to let
him see.

Mr. Jarrett," she said, in an undertone
not meant even for her father's ears, " you
are too good. Don't think me ungrateful,
but, indeed  indeed  I cannot ride Kingfisher
any more."

Why not ? " he asked in surprise.
Don't you like him ? "

"Oh! yes. It's not that. He's simply

perfection. But  but " growing more

and more confused.

What is it, then ? You need not be
afraid to tell me, surely."

There  there is a reason," she said,
turning as red as a rose, " but I can't mention
it just now. Some day perhaps you
shall know." And with this she was
gone.

He smiled. A feeling of exultation took
possession of him. He thought he understood
the workings of her mind. She was
proud, and did not like placing herself
under an obligation. He approved of her
independent spirit. In her place, he told
himself, he should have acted the same.
After Lady De Fochsey's insinuations, had
she appeared the least eager to attract, or
anxious to get what she could out of him,
then his respect and his admiration would
have received a blow. As it was, he
believed in her thoroughly. With that

face, and those eyes, she could not be anything
but pure and innocent. Evidently,
she did not realize as yet how much in
earnest he was. That was quite clear.

But it would be very, very pleasant to
his feelings, teaching her gradually, and
from day to day, to rely upon him, to lookup
to him as her natural stay and support,
until at last she fully understood that all
he had in the world, himself, his house, his
horses, his fortune, were hers, to do exactly
what she liked with.

Since Mrs. Lankester had as good as told
him there were no other candidates in the
field, he had begun to think that in time
he could persuade Dot, dear, darling,
plucky little Dot, to care for him as he
cared for her. Only he must not attempt
to hurry her. He had seen the mistake of
being too precipitate. And so he went
home, and sat thinking of his love all the
evening, recalling her looks and words, and

counting the days till the Morbey-Anstead
steeplechases.

That had been a happy thought of his,
taking the Lankesters ; for even if the
doctor could not get away from his
professional duties he felt pretty sure he
might count on Mrs. Lankester. And for
Dot's sake he would have put up with half-a-dozen
stout, elderly mothers, and paid
them assiduous attention, however much
they repelled him secretly.

By which it will be seen how hopelessly
in love he was, and how far this earthly
passion had separated him from his
spiritual affinity in the shape of Lady de
Fochsey.

The fair widow revenged herself by
riding home with Lord Littelbrane, and
gauging that nobleman's psychological
aptitudes, as a consolation for previous
disappointments.

But though she applied various test

conditions, she failed to discover that he
possessed any mediumistic qualities. Not
only was his lordship not magnetic, but
worse still, during a seven mile ride, which
presented numberless openings, he proved
himself to be slow, wanting in dash, and
insufferably commonplace.

As for his theories and prosy platitudes,
she was sick to death of them already.

But for all that, she thought it would
prove a splendid punishment for Mr. Jarrett
if she became Lady Littelbrane, and
honored his existence ever after.
Her ideas were not exactly high in spite
of dear Monsieur Adolphee's tuition.

A FASHIONABLE STEEPLECHASE MEETING.

The Morbe3-Ansteacl steeplecliases had for
many years past been held on a level piece
of ground, the property of Lord Littelbrane,
situated only about three miles distant from
the town of Stiffton, and known by the
name of Stiffton Flats. It was intersected
by a running stream which meandered
through rich, grassy meadows, and which,
during wet weather frequently overflowed
its banks. This brook, slightly widened,
and the take-off side guarded by an artificial
fence, had to be jumped twice by those
horses that took part in the races.

Looked at from the point of view of a
pedestrian, the course was a very fair one.
From first to last it did not present a single

obstacle such as might not be jumped with
hounds every time they ran hard. It was
nearly all grass, and beautifully level, save
for a slight ascent at the finish. Yet those
who knew Stiffton Flats well, and were in
the habit of riding over them year after
year, were unanimous in the opinion that
more horses came to grief there, or else
failed to get round the course, than at
almost anv other hunt meetings in the
kingdom.

Neither was the reason far to find.

Had the Morbey Anstead steeplechases
come ofi* in the spring, or during a period
of drought, no country could possibly have
been more delightful. But who can count
on a cessation of rain during the months of
November and December? It required
only a comparatively small amount of
moisture to render those flat, low-lying
pastures extending on either side of
Skelton brook sticky and holding beyond

conception. After a few sharp showers the
water was wont to lie about in pools in the
furrows, where it was no uncommon thing
for it to remain the greater part of the
winter.

Horses and riders knew from bitter
experience the detaining properties of that
still clay soil ; but to the uninitiated all
seemed fair, flat and green. Sportsmen
from afar laughed at the fences, and
declared emphatically that they would not
mind a bit riding over them themselves ;
but they generally adhered their tone before
the day was over, and they saw how much
grief " was caused by these same innocent-looking
jumps, more especially after the
first two miles were left behind.

Amateur jockeys, busy galloping and
preparing their horses, had prayed for fine
weather for days past ; but as usual it had
been a week of " depressions." Driving rain
and boisterous winds came sweeping across

the Atlantic, until at last the heavy weights,
looking in despair at the sodden state of
the ground, prophesied with melancholy
prescience that they might just as well keep
their horses in their stables, instead of
exposing them to ignominious defeat.

But however bad the weather, not to be
present at the county steeplechases was a
departure from Morbey Anstead manners
and customs, of which no one dreamt
seriously for a second.

In truth, this honos established meetings
was a most popular one with all classes of
society. Invariably fixed to take place on
a non-hunting days, it was patronized not
only by the Mutual Adorationites, but also
by the Quornites, men from the Cottesmore
and the Bel voir, and even by followers of
the more distant Pytchle} Atherton, and
North Warwickshire hunts.

It was in short, a social gathering of
hunting people, who assembled from all

parts of the midland counties. Fashionable

Melton was well represented, and sent forth

numerous well-known members of the

aristocracy, including a foreign prince,

an English duke and a whole host of

minor celebrities. From every country

house within a radius of many miles there

issued beautiful women, big of bust and

small of waist (by the way, how is the

combination produced so frequently on

horseback ?), clad in the tightest of

Horne and Justine habits, the smartest

and most fanciful of vests, and the most

diversified and eccentric of hats. Some

went in for low crowns, some high  very

high, and with a perfectly marvellous

nap. Some wore wide brims, some narrow,

but when stylish, they were nearly always

a few sizes too small for the owner's head,

and were jauntily perched a top of a lovely

blonde or dark france, as the case milites

and then kept on by a cleverly pinned

veil whose black spots lent lustre to the
complexion, making soft cheeks softer and
large eyes larger.

Amongst these fair equestriennes, however,
could be seen specimens of a totally
different type of sportswoman, though it
must be owned that they were in the
minority. The strong-minded ladies, who
hunted their five or six days a week as
regularly as men, were evidently indifferent
to appearances. They could be distinguished
by rusty skirts that had already
done much service, by loosely-flapping
covert coats, opening in front over a horse-cloth
or bird's-eye waistcoat, by worsted
gloves, old roomy boots, tightly-plaited hair
(no fringes) and pot hats.

They went in exclusively for comfort,
not fashion or show ; and if the day turned
out wet, proved their sense ; but on the
other hand, if Phoebus shone brightly
and condescended to liizht up the scene
VOL. III. 39

with his golden rays, then it must be confessed
that they did not appear to advantage
beside their smarter and matter sisters.
As for the lords of creation they displayed
so many marvellous checks that one wondered
at the ingenuity of the human brain
to produce such astonishing combinations.
Tall men wore little checks, and small men
wore big ones  the biggest they could find
and strutted about like bantam cocks,
trying, since nature had been unkind, to
make themselves remarkable by the clothes
on their back. And they certainly succeeded,
looking like miniature chess-boards,
in their Scotch tweeds and heather
mixtures. But as long as the genus homo
was pleased wdtli number one, it did not
much signify, and certainly could not
affect the cynical critic.

Now amongst other institutions, fashion
that powerful yet insipid goddess  had
elected that at the Morbey Anstead steeplechases

it was " the things " to ride, not

drive. Consequently very few vehicles
were to be seen in comparison with other
race-meetings.

JSTot more than a dozen filled the stewards*
inclosure as a rule, and the majority of
these were occupied by elderly ladies,
whose riding days and figures were both
gone, and who amused themselves by
watching through their field-glasses, who
was the strange young man riding with
dear Anna Maria or sweet Susan Jane.

By the younger members of the community,
both male and female, it was
considered " chalk " to drive, though if
questioned as to the reason, it is open to
doubt if anybody could have given one.
As far as seeing the races themselves went,
those occupying elevated box-seats possessed
a decided advantage over their
equestrian brethren.

In the one case, you could sit comforts*



ably with a rug rouncl your legs, your
card in your left hand, and your field-glass
in your right, and take uninterrupted
stock of the company and the proceedings
in general. But in the other, you first had
to contend with a fidgety' horse  why is
even the quietest animal ever foaled fractious
on such occasions ?  then gallop
madly down to the water-jump, by which
you lost the start, then as madly back to
the winning-post, where you arrived just
too late to see the finish, and had not an
idea how the race had been run, or what
had won, until you asked your neighbour,
and he asked somebody else, who in turn
appealed to a third party, when eventually
the desired information mifrht or miizht not
be obtained.

Then you clapped each other on the back
figuratively speaking, of course ; it would
have been vulvar to do so in reality  and
exclaimed, ** Ha, ha, capital race, capital

finish. There's no doubt that riding is the
only way to enjoy a steeplechase. That's
the beauty of this meeting. You see such a
lot."

As a matter of fact, whether you did, or
whether you didn't, signified very little,
when once fashion had dictated that you
were to prance about the course on high-mettled
hacks and display your figure and
your equitation to the public at large. It
was " the thing." What need to analyze
whether you were comfortable or uncomfortable,
at your ease or the reverse ?
There are no such willing slaves as English
people, nor any other race with such
sheep like propensities. If one bondsman
bends his neck to the yoke, then all must
needs do the same.

It is possible that had Bob been
thoroughly acquainted with Stilton Flat
habits, he too would have yielded his independence
and ridden instead of driven to

the races. But being new to the mother
country's ways he ordered out his deceased
uncle's big, roomy omnibus, piled the roof
up with brown, straw - lined hampers
containing cood thinf:s to eat and to

DO O

drink, seated himself inside and drove off
to fetch the Lankesters, without having
the least suspicion how greatly he was
violating Morbey Anstead manners and
customs.

It had several times occurred to our hero
that if only Doctor Lankester would walk
about the course when they arrived, which
with his sporting tastes he was sure to do,
and if only the old lady would elect to
remain within the four sheltering walls of
the omnibus, he and Dot might occupy the
box-seat and have an uncommonly good
time of it. This was how the artful fellow
reasoned.

Just as he started the sun shone out, and
caused patches of clear hie sky to breakup

the heavy masses of dark grey cloud
that ahiiost filled the heavens ; but in spite
of its cheering influence, he did not feel
thoroughly happy until he had made quite
sure of his guests, and Dot, looking very
pretty and pleasant, was seated by his side,
whilst Doctor and Mrs. Lankester occupied
the seat opposite.

The latter lady was magnificently and
carefully attired for the occasion. She
wore a purple silk dress, a Paisley shawl,
and a bonnet which would have put many
a garden to shame, so crowded was it with
gay and many-coloured flowers, mounted
on green india-rubber stalks, which kept
bobbing about with each movement of the
wearer's head. Every time she looked at
Bob and Dot she smiled encouragingly at
them, and in a way which, to the girl at
least, was peculiarly irritating.

She was terrified lest Mr. Jarrett should
discover the meanings of those bland nods

and maternal grimaces, wliicli seemed to
her quite shamefully apparent.

So they drove on, along the country
roads, past villages and homesteads, and
through the flourishing little town of
Stiffton, with its tortuous, old-fashioned
streets, well-to-do inns, prospering shops,
and venerable church, up whose grey walls
the ivy clung, and whose square tower
formed a landmark for miles around. A
clean, bustling little town, full of life and
animation on this particular morning, as
flies rattled past from the railway station,
and huge open conveyances offered to
deposit pedestrians on the course for the
modest sum of fourpence a-head. Before
the hotels paced ready-saddled horses,
waiting for their riders to appear, and
behind each curtained window peeped out
the innocent faces of little children, and
the more curious ones of their mothers or
nurses.

Such was Stiffton. As good a specimen
as you could meet with of a thriving
hunting town. Such sleek, fat tradesmen,
and such innumerable villas nestling on
every height, told a tale of prosperity, rare
in this our nineteenth century.

When Bob's omnibus neared the entry
to the race-course, a little delay occurred,
owing to his not being possessed of an
inclosure ticket. To tell the truth, he had
never given the matter a thought.

But Mrs. Lankester was quite put out
at the discovery. She had set her heart on
being among what she styled ' the nobs."

Do you mean to say, Mr. Jarrett, that
you actually have not got a ticket ? " she
asked with considerable asperity, too bad
an actress to conceal her displeasure.

No," he replied, " I am sorry to say I
have not."

Why on earth did you not ask for
one r

*' For the very simple reason, Mrs.
Lankester, that I did not know who to
ask. Besides," throwing back his head
with an independent gesture, " I hate
becGin for favours."

Quite right," murmured Dot sympathetically.


Pooh ! Where's the favour ? " responded
Mrs. Lankester in a louder key.
In your position you have a right to a
steward's ticket. Captain Straighten always
had one, that I know for a fact."

Very probably, but then he was a
resident in the county, whereas I am a newcomer,
and moreover have had nothing todo
with the races."

You'd better let us in," said Mrs.
Lankester persuasively, trying the effect of
an appeal to the man at the gate. " This is
Mr. Jarrett  Captain Straight em's nephew.
Nobody will say anything, I'm sure."

Anxious to conciliate as far as lav in his

power, the man turned to Lord Littelbrane,
who at this juncture appeared on the
scene, accompanied by General Prosieboy
and another Mutual Adorationite, one
Captain Greenbyby by name.

Before Bob could prevent him, he went
up to the noble proprietor of the course,
doubtless thinking to curry favour with
both parties.

Beg pardon, my lord," he said, touching
his hat respectfully, " but will you
kindly furnish me with instructions ? I am
at a loss how to act."

Why, what's wrong. Perkins ? " returned
his lordship in surprise. " You have
your orders."

Yes, my lord, but I fear there has been
some mistake. It appears that Mr. Jarrett,
of Straighten Court, has not been provided
with an inclosure ticket."

Well, what of that ? Why the dickens
should he be? "

Am I to let him in, or not ? "

No, certainly not," thundered his lordship
in reply. " I'm surprised at you,
Perkins. I should have thought after all
these years you should have known your
business better than to come to me with
such a demand. The Kin: of Enijland
himself should not go inside our county
inclosure without a ticket."

Whereupon he gave his horse an angry
touch of the heel, and moved on.

*the idea!" he exclaimed, turning indignantly
to his companions, " of having
that low fellow in among us. Why it's
enough to put one off one's day's amusement
altogether."

General Prosieboy and Captain Greenbyby
both assented, though the former mumbled
vaguely that lie wondered where the deuce
they were going to get luncheon, and wished
inwardly that Lord Littelbrane had had
the sense to follow Mr. Jarrett's example,

and bring plenty of food, in a comfortable
slit-up trap, rather than depend upon the
hospitality of his neighbours, which might
or might not be forthcoming at the requisite
moment. Meals oucrht not to be trifled
with, in General Prosieboy's estimation.
They were important things, and if you
were docked of one, it was a serious loss.
Had he been quite sure where and with
whom he was going to lunch, he should have
felt easier decidedly in his mind. But he had
a distinct recollection of beim' invited to
refresh his inner-man on a former occasion
bv a noble earl, who offered him nothing
more substantial than a packet of dry
sandwiches, and who folded up the paper
and string when he had finished this light
repast, and then, in order to assuage his
thirst politely tendered him half a glass of
sherry, doled out from a pocket flask.
That luncheon was still green in the
general's memory, and even now gave him

the shudders when he recalled it. The mere
sight of Bob's well-filled leander inflamed
him with (astronomer longings.

But he was far too much of a sycophant
to express his real sentiments, especially
when he felt pretty certain that they would
not meet with a favourable reception, so
resolutely averting his eyes from that highly-laden
omnibus roof, he burst into a forced
laugh and said :

"I wonder what the devil that fellow
Jarrett means by coming to our Morbey
Anstead races in this tinkering style. Surely
he has horses enough in his stable to be
able to pull one out on an occasion like the
present."

Perhaps he thinks a four-wheeled conveyance
safer than pony-back," suggested
Captain Greenbyby, who with stiffly waxed
moustache and squared elbows was riding
a sprightly little hog-maned animal, only a
few sizes Lorimer than a fullgrown donkey.

No, I'll give the man this due. He
ain't afraid," chimed in Lord Littelbrane,
whose sense of justice, though extremely
limited, was strong. " He can't ride one
little bit  rolls about all over the place, and
is nearly off at every fence, but he has got
the pluck of the old gentleman himself."

Pshaw ! He'll soon come back, he'll
soon come back to the level of the rest
of 'em," murmured General Prosieboy disparagingly.
" Nobody ever keeps the ball
a-rollino' for more than a season or two in
this country, and the harder they go at
first, the sooner they collapse as a rule.
Look at ' Crashing Jimmy,' " naming a
well-known member of the hunt ; " the
very sight of a fence settles him nowadays,
and yet what a bruiser he was at one time."

Meantime Bob had succeeded in findini2f
a place for his carriage just outside,
though not within, the magic ropes which
separated the elite of half-a-dozen hunts

from the so-called " outsiders." The
winning-post was not twenty yards off.
The omnibus faced the rails, and as he and
Dot did not trouble themselves much about
social distinctions, and certainly did not
allow them to interfere with their pleasure,
they were perfectly satisfied. Not so Mrs.
Lankester.

As already seen, in coming to the races
under Mr. Jarrett's sheltering wince she had
imagined she should have a place amongst
the regular county people. She had
pictured to herself the delight of being
able to nod triumphantly to her friends
and acquaintances from the superior altitude
of the stewards' inclosure. The
reality was a bitter disappointment, and
she could not refrain from venting her
displeasure upon Bob.

*'Eeally,Mr. Jarrett," she said, speaking in
acrid tones, " I must say that I don't think
you have managed matters at all well."

Bob winced. His mamma-in-law was
beginnings to assert her rij2fhts a little soon.

Indeed, Mrs. Lankester. I am sorry
you should be of such an opinion."

No, not at all well," she continued.
For what's the use of living in a great
big house, and having ever so much money,
if you go and stick yourself down among a
parcel of nobodies, instead of being with
the swells, as you ought to be. 1 call it
downright foolish."

Oh, mamma, don't  please don't,"
gasped Dot piteously, her face suddenly
turning the colour of a peony. " Mr.
Jarrett has been so kind, and surely, surely
it is not for us to find fault. Why, we should
not be here at all were it not for him."

His heart went out towards her. He
would have given anything to kiss her
sweet, eloquent lips.

Never mind, Miss Dot," he said,
looking? at her with a reassuring smile.

VOL. JII. 40

Xo doubt Mrs. Lankester is quite right in
what she says. She must forgive my
blundering for once, and next year, if weare
all alive and well, I hope she may have
the satisfaction of seeing us in the inclosure,
where, according to her opinion, we
()U(ht to be now."

That one little word " us " restored Airs.
Lankester"s good humour as by a miracle.
For, she argued, Mr. Jarrett might so very
easily have said " meT But " us " was comprehensive
and significant in the extreme ;
it meant your daughter and I and a happy
family party. At all events, she would do
all she could to promote the match. So the
cross, dissatisfied expression vanished from
her face, and she said very winningly :

I hope so also. And now, Mr. Jarrett,
don't you think that you and Dot had
better go and have a look at the fences
before the races benin? Doctor Lankester
has been gone some time."

Won't you come, too, mother ? " said
lier daughter, detecting a maternal artifice,
and resenting it accordingly, for had she
not received a long lecture on the advantages
of matrimony previous to starting ?

The green stalks, with their burden of
artificial flowers, waved backwards and
forwards dissenting.

"No, dearest, I am far too afraid of
getting my feet wet."

"Then I'll stop with you, mother."

Oh, dear no ! Never mind me, child.
I'm accustomed to behoof left alone. Mr.
Jarrett, carry her off; but oh. Dot, before
you go, just take one look at old Lady
Fraserburgh's bonnet. Did you ever see
such a thing ? It's not fit for a housemaid.
There is not a single flower or feather upon
it, and they tell me that flowers, especially,
are all the rage nowadays."

Dot and Bob walked off together. The
girl went reluctantly, but she dared not

40*

offer any opposition for fear of rendering
her mother's scheming too apparent.
Nevertheless, in her heart of hearts she
fek bitterly ashamed. It was such a
horrible, humiliating thing for any modest-minded
young woman to be thrown at a
man's head in this barefaced fashion ; and
the more you liked the man, the more you
respected and esteemed him, the worse it
was.

What, too, could be more awful than
having to blush for your own mother ? All
Dot's sense of ladyhood had been already
shocked repeatedly. But to show her distress
in any way was only to make matters
worse. So, with a sobered manner, and
most of her pleasure gone for the day, she
walked b} her companion's side, striving
hard to conceal how greatly she was
vexed and annoyed by Mrs. Lankester's
remarks.

AN AMATEUR FINISH.

A FINE, sympathetic insight seemed to have
revealed to Bob that Mrs. Lankester had
contrived to put Dot out, therefore he
sedulously avoided the subject of the
inclosure ticket, and did all he could to
restore her 'serenity. He behaved very
well indeed, more like an elder brother
than an admirer, and did not attempt to
pay her a single compliment, or to make
one flowery speech.

The girl was grateful, and appreciated
the delicacy of his conduct. As a proof,
she exerted herself to amuse, and, as they
walked down the course, pointed him out
a few of the celebrities she knew by sight,
who, of course, were unknown to Bob.

Do yon see that handsome middle-aged
woman on the black horse ? " she exclaimed,
as a buxom lady of some eight and thirty
summers passed by, laughing and chatting
to her male attendant,

"Yes, who is sheP "

She is Mrs. Lono'-Lamrley, a siren who
is said to have broken more hearts than
any woman in England, and who even now,
though no longer as voun<]f as she was,
contrives to captivate every man she comes

across."

Either the men must be very weak, or
their hearts remarkably brittle," answered
Bob, for, in his present love-lorn condition,
he had eyes but for one. " I don't see anything
in her at all."

Don't sou ? Then you are an exception
to the rule, since her admirers are legion.
The gentleman ridings bv her side  the
stout one, I mean, in the frock coat  is the
Duke of Breezvcourt. It is said that he

would marry Mrs. Long-Langley tomorrow,
if Mr. Long-Langley were out of the
way."

Why, she looks old enough to be his
mother," exclaimed Bob, taking another
look at the captivating equestrian. " I
would as soon fall in lose with my grandmother.
What can constitute the attraction?"


Dot laughed. Even the nicest of women
is not displeased at hearing one of her own
sex disparaged, at least where appearances
are concerned. There is a natural rivalry
amongst them.

You are evidently less susceptible than
the StifFtonians, Mr. Jarrett. But people
who know Mrs. Long-Langley intimately,
declare that she possesses a most wonderfully
fascinating manner. And now I want
you to look at somebody else  somebody
who, personally, I admire infinitely more."

And who might that be ? " inquired

Bob. " T am curious to learn your taste at
any rate."

' Turn to the left, then, and you will see
Lady Norman just coming on the course,
driving a pair of wonderful bay horses.
Make haste, or she will have pulled up.
There ! " as Bob's eyes roved in the desired
direction, *' did you ever see such
steppes . It is a pleasure to watch them
move."

They are magnificent, certainly. But
who is this Lady Norman ? Has she a
history also ? "

Yes, but it is a very sad one. Her
husband is mad  not mad enough to be
shut up, but he does the most extraordinary
things, and takes the funniest fancies into
his head. One is, that he is always falling
in love with actresses and queer sort of
people, which, of course," said Dot innocently,
'' must be very distressing to Lady
Norman. But she behaves like an aniel.

and forgives all his escapades. People say
that she loves lira in spite of everything,
and that her life is miserable in consequence.
Poor thing ! I am sorry for
her."

Bob's interest was aroused. He withdrew
his eyes from the spirited bay horses,
and looked at their driver. He saw an
extremely beautiful, calm, sad face, whose
look of settled melancholy touched his
heart. It was easy, even for a stranger
like himself, to tell that Lady Norman was
far from being a happy woman.

Thus time passed away, and both Dot
and Bob were so interested in all they perceived
going on around them, that they
were quite astonished when the jockeys,
wearing silk caps and jackets, began to
appear in the paddock, and commenced
making preparations for mounting their
respective steeds.

This was a signal that the first race

would shortly be run, therefore the two
young people made the best of their way
back to the omnibus, where they found
Mrs. Lankester still busily inspecting old
Lady Fraserburgh's bonnet, through an
ivory opera-glass grown yellow with age.

"I never was more disappointed in my
life. Dot," she murmured in her daughter's
ear. " I thought to see such a fine show
of bonnets, and really, there ain't one to
compare with mine." Then she profited
by Bob's turning to give a few words of
direction to his man, and added eagerly
how have you been getting on?"
Dot was thankful to escape the necessity of
replying, owing to Mr. Jarrett's suddenly
asking her mother at what time she would
like luncheon, which, fortunately, diverted
her attention.

Won't you come outside, Mrs.
Lankester ? " he inquired, when this
important matter had been settled.

'No, thank you, Mr. Jarrett, I'm afraid
of the cold air. But make Dot go. She
loves to see the races, and to tell the
honest truth, I don't much care about
them one way or the other."

Dot was rapidly gaining confidence iu
Bob ; his conduct was so delicate ; besides,
she began to feel that she would rather be
alone with him any number of hours than
sit and listen to her mother's speeches ;
they were so very, very trying, and irritated
her so fearfully.

Both pride and shame were roused by
turns. Therefore she scrambled up onto
the box seat, and Bob seated himself
by her side, but before many minutes
had passed Dr. Lankester joined them,
puffing a little, from the pace at which
he had walked. " They are making
Albatross favourite," he said, " but the
course is awfully heavy, and, in my
opinion, he won't stay home when the

pinch comes. He's too slack in the loins
for my taste."

What do you fancy, papa ? " asked
Dot. " You generally manage to select
the winners."

*' Well, I've sot a sneaking liking? for

O DO

Dauntless. He may not show quite so
much quality as Albatross, but for all that
he's a real good stamp of hunter and the
public have had the sense to make him
second favourite."

*' Have you backed him, doctor?'
inquired Bob, who had not cared to leave
his companion in order to visit the betting
ring. Moments spent alone with Dot were
far too precious to be thus wasted.

Only for five shillings, just to give mea
little interest in the race. I never invest
large sums. Firstly, because I can't afford
it, and secondly, because one's bound to
lose in the long run."

As he finished speaking, the six competitors

who were to take part in the race
came trotting down the course and went
some two or three hundred yards. Then,
turning sharp round, they cantered back
again at half speed, the bright jackets of
the jockeys flashing past like meteors, and
for a second bewildering the eye. Even to
the uninitiated, it was clear that Captain
Greenbyby's Albatross was the gentleman of
the party. But he was an aged horse, and
carried the top weight, having, in years
past, won over the very same course, inconsequence
of which he had to put up
with a penalty of seven pounds. A horse
might be ever so good, and yet fail to
catch the judge's eye with twelve stone
thirteen on his back, especially when the
going " was as bad as to-day. The
hypercritical, too, took exception to
Albatross's feet, which were remarkably
small and almost asinine in conformation,
whereas Dauntless's broad hoofs seemed

more calculated to cope with the mud and
the clay. lie was of a bigger, stouter make
altogether, aud, being only five years of
age, his impost was but eleven stone twelve.
Thus there was exactly fifteen pounds
difference between the two horses ; a
difference which many of the knowing ones
thought fatal.

But Captain Greenbyby, who rode Albatross
himself, was extremely confident of
winning, and advised all his friends to
back his mount, in spite of the gallant
grey having to carry lumps of weight in
comparison with every other animal in the
race. Mayfly, Sir Roger, Gamecock and
Kildare were youngsters, who had yet to
wain their laurels between the flags. Kildare,
in particular, came with a high
reputation from over the water, and was
a son of Solon on the sire's side, and of
old Camilla on the dam's. But beyond
that he had been seen to give his owner

a couple of nasty rolls oat liuntirig, when
first lie appeared at covert side, nothing
much was known of him. Still, he had
the makers of a f'ood horse.

At length the Hag was dropped to an
excellent start, and the six competitors all
cleared the first fence in beautiful order,
skimming' over it without touching twi.
It was a pretty sight to see one after the
other take off exactly right, and land as
lightly as a cat. Neither did the second
obstacle produce " grief." On streamed
the noble animals, until they neared the
water-jump, which, although of no very
formidable dimensions, caused Mayfly to
refuse.

She whipped round so sharply that her
jockey was within an ace of flying over
her head, an action which he greatly resented.
Aijfain and ai'ain he drove her at
the brook with a vigour and a persistence
both highly creditable, but nevertheless,

quite ineffectual. Mayfly laid back her
ears, and swerved before she came within
yards of that obnoxious streamlet.

The spectators, meantime, had been so
much interested by the contest going on
between man and horse, that they had
almost forgotten the race itself, especially
as the five remaining horses had disappeared
into the distant country.

When they again could be seen the pace
and the heavy ground were already telling
their tale. Only Dauntless, Albatross and
Gamecock remained to the fore. Kildare
had either fallen, or else been pulled up,
when his rider perceived that his chance
was hopeless, and Sir Eager, though he
still plodded wearily on in the rear, was
almost half a field behind the leaders,
whose girths he stood but little chance of
reaching, unless all three failed to keep
upright.

A hundred yards more and it became

evident that Gamecock's bolt was shot,
and that the issue lay between the two
favourites, Albatross and Dauntless. The
former struggled nobly under his heavy
impost, but both horses were dead beat,
and there seemed little, if anything, to
choose between them. And now a most
singular scene took place, and one such as
might not be witnessed in a lifetime ;
in fact, it required to be see?i to be
believed.

On, on they came with heavy labouring
stride. Dauntless was first on to the racecourse.
But he was so done, that after
brushing through the last fence, he stood
stock still for a few seconds on landing.
This conduct on his part enabled Albatross
to gain an advantage.

But he, in his turn, was equally exhausted,
and he could hardly raise a canter.
Mad with emulation and disappointment,
the rider of Dauntless, by whip and spur,

VOL. III. 41

set him going afraid. That brief halt, short
as it was, had enabled the poor horse to
get a whiff of fresh air. It served him in
good stead now, and probably turned the
balance in his favour. He began to makeup
for lost ground.

Albatross's jockey made a vigorous call.
Then he committed that great mistake of
nine amateur riders out of ten, and
attempted to use his whip. As he raised
his hand aloft, the horse stopped to nothing,
and within half-a-dozen strides of the
winning post Dauntless overhauled his
opponent, and by a desperate effort
manacled to secure the audire's fiat bv a
short neck.

Two seconds afterwards, and both horses
relapsed voluntarily into a walk, and from
a walk to a stand. Even when they had
sufficiently recovered to move leisurely
towards the paddock, a veritable cloud of
steam enveloped them, which issued from

their nostrils in spasmodic streams, and
robbed the precious air of half its freshness.
Great drops of perspiration rolled
down from their foreheads to the ground,
and their outstretched necks and heaving
flanks warned those who were destined to
follow in their footsteps what they might
expect. Albatross had run a good game
horse, and though beaten be was not disgraced
; but dien his master dismounted,
he asked himself somewhat ruefully,
whether the race repaid him for having
taken so much out of his mount, and
whether he might not just have won it had
some kind freak of fortune deprived him of
his whip.

Meantime, so great had been the excitement
occasioned by this uncommon finale, that
nobody paid much attention to the weather.
But that vast host of smart gentlemen and
ladies on horseback were all at once disagreeably
forced to take it into their cont*



iteration. The sky became overcast, the
sun vhich had shone fitfully throughout
the morning  disappeared sullenly behind
a spreading mass of leaden cloud, and
presently a few great drops of rain caused
the wary to cast an anxious eye around in
search of shelter. The wind, too, arose,
and whistled and howled through the
hedge-rows and the tops of the trees, until it
sounded like angry waves dashing themselves
against the sea-shore, and then receding
with a baffled roar.

As previously mentioned, the truly
fashionable throng had come to the races
in gala array, determined to spend a long
and happy day, and had no convenient
carriages to retire to in case of an emergency
like the present. Darker and darker
grew the clouds, until at last down came
the rain with merciless severity. There is
rain and rain. A mild steady dribble is
nothing when contrasted with a chilly

torrent, that cuts the very skin on your
cheeks and freezes the marrow in your
bones.

The rain which now descended was of
this latter character  fierce, cold, penetrating
to a degree. Horses refused to face
it, and turning round with one accord,
stood with their backs to the bitter wind,
presenting a row of trembling quarters and
tucked-in tails.

In five minutes every one was more or
less wet through. Even treble Melton
could not stand it. The ladies conducted
themselves bravely, as they always do on
such occasions, but all the same they looked
thoroughly unhappy in their light and
saturated habits, which outlined each fair
form with the clinging austerity of a
bathing-gown.

Those people who are in the habit of
patronizing local meetings, where covered
stands are all but unknown, and carriages

or tents offer the only refuge in bad
weather, will appreciate the difference produced
in a few minutes by sunshine or
storm. On Stilton Flats, one short quarter
of an hour ago, all was bright and gay.
The ladies and gentlemen on horseback, in
their smart clothes and glossy hats, galloped
briskly up and down, and lent animation
to the scene. Gipsy women prowled
from carriage to carriage, and made themselves
generally objectionable, red-coated
runners, accustomed to hunt on foot with
the various packs, strove to gain a few
honest pence by selling race-cards, negroes
sang, acrobats tumbled, Aunt Sally and the
three-card trick drove a lively trade,
oranges and cocoanut were freely disposed
of, as also were sticks of coloured rock and
gingerbread nuts. Bookmakers shouted
out the odds until they were hoarse,
jockeys enveloped in covert coats, with
their silk caps looking like bright dots in

the crowd, wound their way through the
multitude, and in the paddock, dainty,
sleek-coated horses walked leisurely around,
or else lashed out impatiently at their too
ardent admirers, until they forced them to
keep at a respectable distance from their
nimble heels.

All was life, bustle, movement and good-humour.


Now, a ghastly change had come over
the scene. One could hardly realize it was
the same. The racecourse was black with
dripping umbrellas, that resembled so many
overgrown mushrooms turned mouldy by
decay. What carriages there were where
mostly open, and presented a similar spectacle,
slightly diversified by waterproof
rugs ; whilst as for the aristocratic throng
on horseback  the flower of half-a-dozen
hunting fields  the male and female
masters " of Stilton and all the surrounding
country, if ever people looked

thoroughly wretched, miserable and uncomfortable,
they did. The rain had taken
all the pride out of them. Their glory had
departed, at all events for that day ; and
they stood revealed as mere ordinary
human beings, neither better nor worse
than their neighbours, when shorn of all
the pomp and majesty of purple and fine
linen. Even a Stifftonian cannot rise
superior to crumpled collars and a limp
shirt front. Our washerwoman has a great
deal to do with producing the semblance of
a gentleman.

- cs ses r"==

I WOULD GIVE MY LIFE TO SERVE YOU."

To make matters worse, the rain came on
exactly at two o'clock, when an hour had
been allowed between the first and second
races for luncheon. Everyone felt more
or less hungry. But how were folk to eat,
drink and make merry when it was pouring
down in buckets, sending horrible, cold
driblets from the brim of your hat along
your spine, reducing your linen to a pulp
and coursing from the tip of your nose like
a water-spout ?

A few wise people galloped ofl home
without more ado, but the majority, having
arranged for a day's pleasuring, were
obliged to wait until the bitter end. Trains

ran inconveniently, and specials were not
to be obtained until quite late in the
afternoon, when all the fun was supposed
to be over. But what fun ? The good-natured
and cheerful optimist, though ill at
ease bodily, prognosticated that the weather
was sure to mend shortly, since it was quite
too bad to last. The pessimist growled
back in reply, that he didn't care a hang
whether it did or whether it didn't, .since
he was wet through already and could not
possibly be in a worse plight.

In short, folk were full of compassion for
themselves ; so full, that they had little to
spare for the poor horses, who cowered and
winced before the fierce blast in a truly
pitiable manner, their glossy coats stained
dark by the wet, which trickled down inlarge
drops from every part.

While all this was ioincf on without,
many were the envious glances cast at
that snug little quartette seated comfortably

inside Mr. Jarrett's capacious omnibus, discussing
a whole row of good things spread
out appetizingly on the cushions. Even
Mrs. Lankester's attention was completely
diverted for the time bein!: from her
neighbour's bonnet to Bob's champagne,
which she appeared highly to relish,
judging from the number of times she
plied her glass and allowed it to be
filled without remonstrance. The strings
of her tongue became gradually unloosened,
and her company manners were
laid aside.

Now, I call this jolly ! " she exclaimed,
smacking her fat lips, and smiling unctuously
at Bob. Eh ? What do you say, Mr.
Jarrett ? though I needn't ask, for you
and that girl of mine look as happy as
sand-boys."

Dot almost hid her face in her plate. But
Bob could see her little pink ear grow
pinker and felt for her distress. He foresaw

that his mother-in-law was likely to prove a
thorn in the flesh.

"Thank you, Mrs. Lankester," he rejoined
composedly. "I'm pretty comfortable.
One always does feel better when
one has had something to eat and drink."

"Just so, just so. Your champagne is
capital for keeping out the cold. That's
why I'm taking a little extra."

"Have a drop more, then," and Bob
poured out another bumper.

Mrs. Lankester sipped it with relish.

Lor ! how miserable the swells look ! "
she ejaculated triumphantly, giving a
coarse laucfh of content as the Duke of
Breezycourt and Mrs. Long-Langley rode
by, wearing much the same appearance as
if they had stood under a pump and been
well soused.

I wish I could take them all in," said
kind-hearted Bob. " I feel so sorry for the
poor ladies."

"I'm very glad you can't, Mr. Jarrett.
They would not let us into their inclosure
when we wanted, and now we score over
them. That's as it should be."

''I should not like to have you for an
enemy, Mrs. Lankester."

"Oh! no fear, you never will. On the
contrary," looking significantly at Dot, '* I
am in hopes that we may be the best
friends later on. By-the-way, do yoa
admire Mrs. Long-Langley ? "

"No, not particularly. She has the
remains of a fine woman, but art has been
too evidently employed to preserve them."

That's just what I say. I can't see any
beauty in her whatever."

You forget, my dear," interposed Doctor
Lankester with his genial smile, " that
good looks are apt to be effaced when
exposed to such a downpour. Where is
the carmine of those lovely cheeks ? Where
the straight and pencilled brow, the ruddy

lip and golden locks ? Faded and gone, or
if not quite gone, at all events converted
into little coloured rivulets that scarcely
heighten the general appearance."

Bob laughed heartily.

Why, doctor ! " he exclaimed in a
bantering tone, " I had no idea you were
so cynical."

If there is one thincj on the face of the
earth I detest, it is a painted woman. She
is such a horrid, vile, false sham."

There I am with you," answered Bob.
Try a glass of that claret. I can recommend
it as being something extra good ; ordo
you prefer port ? "

Whilst they were doing full justice to
the viands spread out before them, and
waxing merrier and more colloquial as the
bottles grew empty. Bob suddenly saw a
sight which roused him to compassion.

With their backs turned towards the
quarter from whence the wind came, and

almost facing the omnibus, he spied Lord
Littelbrane and General Prosieboy standing
in dismal silence side by side.

Who can describe the wretched appearance
presented by these two unfortunate
gentlemen, but more especially by the
elder one, who, owing to his advanced
years, was highly susceptible to the cold
and the wet. With collar turned up, hat
crammed down, shoulders shrugged, and
head bent forward on his chest, his venerable
beard transformed into a variety of
little water-spouts which coursed down his
clothes, and with his red old face positively
purple from exposure, there sat General
Prosieboy  a miserable object indeed. Bob's
kind heart melted on the spot. He was not
one to harbour malice, and he forgot that
this man was his enemy, and had insulted
him in every possible way. He remembered
only that he was a human being, past the
prime of life, and at the present moment

evidently suffered from keen physical discomfort.
" Do as thou wouldst be done
by." This was what flashed through his
mind.

In an instant he had left the omnibus,
and was battling his way through the
driving rain and slipping about on the
saturated soil as he vainly strove to make
haste.

"Get off! get off!" he said hurriedly.
'* You must be simply perished. Come into
my 'bus and have a bit of something to eat
and a glass or two of liquor to warm you
up. Here, my man," addressing a half-starved
looking individual, who stood
prowling about, evidently in search of a
job, " hold this gentleman's horse."

Oh, what a heavenly invitation !

For an instant the general thought it was
an angel's voice sounding so sweetly in his
ears. The next, he looked round and saw
the man he had called a duffer and an outsider,

a rank bounder, and every vituperative
name in his vocabulary standing close
beside him, gazing up into his face with a
pair of compassionate brown eyes, so clear
and honest that they seemed as if they
knew no guile.

To do General Prosieboy justice, as their
glances met he felt thoroughly ashamed of
himself. Here was an enemy prepared to
heap coals of fire upon his head. He
positively yearned to accept Bob's timely
and hospitable offer, but if he did so the
sacrifice would be immense, for how could
he continue to abuse him hereafter ? Even
he, was not quite mean enough for that.

But he was scarcely a free agent. If he
followed his inclinations and profited by
Mr. Jarrett's invitation, what would Lord
Littelbrane say ? There lay the difficulty,
which was greatly increased by his companion's
presence. Should he be upbraided
and condemned as a base seceder from the
VOL. III. 42

ranks of the Mutual Adorationites ?
Would he be branded as a traitor to his
order, a turncoat and a renegade ?

He glanced uneasily at his lordship, who
maintained an impenetrable front, and
whose countenance was as impassive as a
mask. He could "clean nothing from its
stolidly frigid expression.

Just then a furious gust of wind and rain
combined, almost carried their horses off
their legs, and caused them to sidle up

against the coach of the Lancers, a

regiment whose existence Lord Littelbrane
had seen fit to honore, and had never calledon.
A regular rivulet ran off the roof,
and almost swamped the unhappy horsemen.


Abject and pitiful as might be General
Prosieboy's conduct, the bodily discomfort
which he was enduring conquered every
remaining vestige of pride. H the Devil
himself had made him a similar oiler he

would have accepted it at that moment,
when the horrid moisture penetrated to his
neck, his back, his thighs, and sent icy
shivers, suggestive of rheumatism, sciatica
and lumbago, through all his substantial
frame.

Thank you," he said to Bob, dismounting
as speedily as his wet clothes
would permit of. "It has turned out a
most miserable day, and I shall be glad to
avail myself of your hospitality."

That's right," exclaimed the younger
man cordially. Then in a lower tone he
added, " Won't his lordship come also ?
It is so very stormy and disagreeable."

Lord Littelbrane overheard the remark,
but he, at least, was consistent. In his
heart of hearts he despised his friend's
weakness, and felt secretly angered by it
No amount of wet or cold should succeed
in making Item depart from his principles.
Corporeal misery should not induce Idm to

42*

quit his colours. He would stick to them
through thick and thin, and at all events
show a good example to this unworthy and
degenerate M.A.

No, thank you," he said in his most
lordly and stiffest manner ; " I'm not so
susceptible to a little rain as General
Prosieboy, and prefer to remain where I
am."

Then he looked at the dripping and
trembling old man with a contempt which
he did not attempt to conceal, and muttered
in an ill-pleased undertone, " I'm surprised
at you, Squasher ! "

It needed a creat many glasses of Bob's
champagne, supplemented b} a tumbler of
stiff brandy and water, to restore that
distinguished warrior's equanimity. He
felt depressed and degraded, and if it had
not been for the drink, which was uncommonly
cooil, and served without any
stint, he never could have survived so

crushing a reprimand from the head of the
Mutual Adorationites

But little by little, as he grew more
comfortable, his dignity returned. The
generous wine flowed through his veins,
and chased away that disagreeable sensation
of whipped hound. After all, a man might
take a little luncheon with a fellow on
emergency without being obliged to have
much to do with him hereafter. The
fellow might be dropped directly he was
no longer useful, and put back into his
place gently but firmly. It only required
tact.

The general was a fine old man. In his
cups he was apt to grow pompous, and he
so far conducted himself as a M. A. that in
spite of the temptations by which he was
assailed," he never once condescended either
to slap his host on the back, dig him in the
ribs, or even to call him Jarrett, much less
Bob. In fact, he addressed him as seldom

as possible, and when he did, it was always
from the heights of his own superiority.
Isis manner was both patronizing and
offensive. The truth was, he was afraid to
unbend for fear of incurring: Lord Littel-brave's
displeasure, and so fell between two
stools, and conciliated neither his enemy
nor his friend. Both despised him, and
worse still, he despised himself, and was
painfully conscious of the fact.

He sat there, eating away at Bob's
pigeon pie and pate che foie gras, and
swallowing inconceivable quantities of his
Grand Monopoly and Chateau Lafitte, but
he did not make the least effort to render
any return in the way of politeness or
conversation. As for the ladies they came
in for little favour. But then, the Mutual
Adorationites never did say much, even
among' themselves. It was not their
wav. No How of small talk was at their
command, and they kept the few ideas

they possessed far very rare and special
occasions, such as when Mr. 
rode over a hound, or the hunt
subscriptions failed to realize the accustomed
fissure.

\ell," exclaimed Dot, when at last,
the rain having almost ceased, General
Prosieboy rode off to catch his train, after
having first mumbled some very ungraceful
and incoherent thanks, " it's not for me
to abuse your guests, Mr. Jarrett, but of all
the odious, stuck-up, disagreeable old gentlemen
I ever met, I really think General
Prosieboy is entitled to the prize."

I think so too," said Bob soberly ; " I
can't make him out at all."

He was more vexed than he chose to
admit at finding every effort of friendship
on his part so steadily and rudely repulsed.
Por although the general had accepted his
hospitality, and broken bread, so to speak,
at his table, he knew quite well that he had

only done so under pressure, and remained
as much his enemy as heretofore. This
was discouraging in the extreme.

'' I'm afraid there must be something
altogether wronor about me," he said almost
tearfully to Dot, directly they found themselves
together again " Something wholly
unlike other people."

Why, Mr. Jarrett ? What on earth do
you mean ? "

I don't feet on at all. Xot one bit.
Nobody seems to like me, try what I will,"
he returned despondently.

"Don't say that. It is not true."

I wish it were as you say. But even
you. Miss Dot, only tolerate me."

No such thing, Mr. Jarrett. You are
quite mistaken there."

Ah ! I know better. You don't care
for me as I care for you."

She blushed and remained silent. Her
heart told her the accusation was true.

"I wish you would tell me where I
fail," he went on, after a slight pause.
Because then "  and his voice trembled
"I might try and improve."

She felt dreadfully sorry for him, and yet
was afraid to show her sorrow too plainly,
for fear of setting fire to a volcano. His
manner, more than his words, revealed how
deeply he was moved.

"Nonsense," she said firmly. "It's
those nasty, narrow-minded, empty-headed
people who want improving, not you.
Why," and her soft face kindled into
sudden enthusiasm, " you are worth the
whole lot of them put together. I should
like to know how long it would have been
before Lord Littelbrane or General Proxies
asked you to come in out of the
rain, supposing the conditions of to-day
reversed. Don't vex yourself about what
such people say and do, Mr. Jarrett. They
do not deserve a thought, and are simply

beneath you in every way. You are a king
in comparison."

It vas not often Dot spoke at such
length, or with so much earnestness. But
she Alas indignant at the treatment Bob
had received.

And if anything could have comforted
him, her speech did. He turned two moist
and grateful eyes full upon her.

God bless you. Miss Dot'' he said
huskily. " I'm all right again now, for as
lone as you don't consider me a brute I don't
care two straws what anybody else thinks."

I  I like you awfully and so does
papa," she cried impulsively, carried out of
her reserve, and trvinuf only to console him
for the slights he had received.

His face flamed into colour. His whole
soul seemed for one second to Ihisli through
his eyes.

And I like you too. You know that
I do. I would give my life to serve you."

They were simple words, but the way in
which he said them made the blood rush to
her heart in a guilty wave. How was she
ever to make him understand the difference
between loins and liking?, without wounding
his kindly spirit ? " He ought to know
he ouo'ht to know." That was what she
kept telling herself during the homeward
drive.

BOB RECEIVES A SEVERE SHOCK.

A MONTH passed away, and at the end of it
Bob was painfully conscious of the fact
that, in spite of the increased intimacy
existing between himself and the Lankester
family, he had made but little real progress
in his suit.

He and Dot were very good friends, but
nothing more. He never could get any
further. She was always pleasant, and
when they met, which he contrived should
be often, appeared pleased to see him ; and
yet, whenever he made the slightest endeavour
to approach the subject lying so
near his heart, and consuming it with
anxiety, she invariably managed to evade

it, and to turn the conversation into a
totally different channel.

It was vexing in the extreme to find that
directly he touched upon sentiment she
drew in her horns at once, like a sensitive
snail desiring to escape hurt. Hard as he
had tried, every day rendered it more
evident that he had completely failed to
reach Dot's heart. And fully realizing
this, he grew both depressed and discouraged,
and asked himself a thousand
times what was the reason of his unsuccess.
Another thing puzzled him. As the weeks
passed away he began to notice a difference
in Dot. Unfortunately it was not one to
inspire fresh hope, but it kept his mind ina
state of tension.

She gradually lost the sweet serenity and

gentle cheerfulness which had hitherto

been her chief characteristics. The quiet

monotony of her life no longer seemed to

satisfy her. She was often grave and preoccupied.

When in repose, the little,
sweet, babyish face would assume quite a
serious expression. Something appeared
to trouble the girl, and once or twice Bob
fancied that this trouble originated from
her not being altogether happy in her
home.

Now that he had seen more of Mrs.
Lankester, and his first impressions instead
of growing weaker had only become
confirmed, he did not wonder at such
being the case.

Mother and daughter were so unlike.
The one so coarse and narrow minded, the
other such a perfect little lady in every
thought and feeling.

He made various essays to induce Dot
to confide in him, but this she steadily
refused to do. Still, although she never
made any complaint, or acknowledged she
had cause for unhappiness, he contrived
to father that her mother was trvimx to

force her into some course of action against
which her whole nature revolted. As to
what it might be he could only make
vague guesses, and torture himself in the
process. He had a kind of an idea that
Dot did not like him, and that Mrs.
Lankester wanted to make her marry him
against her will. The mere notion rendered
him sad, and yet he could not help thinking
that there was a good deal of truth in it.
Such a supposition, if correct, would quite
account for Dot's reserve. The greater
the pressure put upon her the more
natural her coldness and gravity, and good
God ! just to think of the girl he cared for,
the girl he loved to distraction and almost
idolised, being pestered into giving a lukewarm
consent to their marriage ! Deeply
as his affections were involved, he would
rather bid her good-bye for ever than feel
that she was being rendered miserable
through his instrumentality, and being

goaded to commit a sin from which her
pure, innocent soul shrank back in horror.
Dot's ejes were clear as mirrors. It was
a delight to look deep into their transparent
depths. But would it not be a
pain rather than a pleasure to see them
cloud over at his approach ; exquisite
agony to feel his embraces passively
endured, instead of returned ? Bob's poor
hungry heart clamoured for reciprocity.
Toleration alone could not satisfy it.
Here, alone in a foreign country, far from
his kith and kin, with expectations disappointed
and illusions crumbling one by one
to the ground, he yearned for sympathised
companionship with an aching, insatiable
yearning, which seemed to eat into the
very vitals of his being.

No doubt the weather was in great
measure responsible for the settled gloom
that was gradually stealing upon him and
rendering his spirit weary and joyless.

Since the end of November, protracted
frost had interfered sadly with hunting
arrangements. Frost, accompanied by a
bright sun overhead, and a clear, if cold
blue sky, acts as an invigorating tonic
both to mind and body, but frost ushered
in with a low grey haze, settling weird-like
on the ice-bound earth, and occasionally
diversified by cruel winds and sleeting
snow, produces an exactly opposite effect,
and runs the human barometer down to
zero. At such seasons all the world is apt
to look dark and drear. Nature varies
and man varies with her. He sympathizes
with her sombre moods, rejoices in her
bright, sunshiny ones.

Neither was Bob's health good at this
time. It, like his spirits, had succumbed
to climatic influences, though he would
have scorned to admit the fact, considering
it, like all strong, young and healthy mena
derogatory one. But the cough, con-vol.
III. 43

traced when lie had tumbled into the
brook, had now become chronic, and
although he made liiht of it, and refused
to take any precautions against the
treacherous English climate to which he
was not accustomed, it nevertheless had a
debilitating effect upon his general system.

He lonfTed to set out hunting afain, if
only as a means of diverting his thoughts
from Dot, whose image was continually
present in his mind, and prevented him
from sleeping at night. In short, he lived
in a state of fever; but the self-control
exercised till the present time was too great
to be continued. He felt a crisis was at
hand, and that before long, whether his
cause were hopeless or the reverse, he must
speak out, and have an answer one way or
the other. It was better to know one's
fate than let one's manhood waste away in
torturing suspense. Matters stood thus,
when the hated and detested frost at last

began to show symptoms of giving. First
it rained, and the drops froze as they fell,
then it snowed, then rained again ; a cold,
miserable downpour ; but though the thaw
was a very half-hearted one, it restored to
the roads their normal amount of mud, and
roused hope in the breasts of fox-hunters,
who came scurrying down from town in
hot haste, or else forsook " rockets " and
rabbits with scant ceremony. But disappointment
awaited these eager Nimrodss.
A fiat came forth from the kennels, which,
although perfectly just in itself, created as
much grumbling as such fiats always do 
to the effect that another day must elapse
before the ground would be in a fit state to
admit of pursuing the fox.

When Bob was informed of Lord Littel-brave's
decision, he resolved to run up to
London, having certain business matters
connected with the estate to attend to. On
reaching the station, he found that a train

43*

leaving the metropolis at an early hour had
just arrived. Having some little time to
wait, he began walking up and down the
platform, when, to his great surprise, he
suddenly perceived Dot Lankester, clad ina
neat striped petticoat, a well-fitting black
jacket, and a small felt hat with a red wing.

His heart gave a big leap and went
thump against his side. He was on the
point of going up to speak to her, when he
received an unpleasant shock, which seemed
to bring his whole internal mechanism to a
stand-still. And yet, the sight that disturbed
him so much was a very simple one,
and b}" no means calculated to upset his
equanimity so entirely

He saw a tall, well-built young man, with
a fresh complexion and fair hair, jump out
from a third-class compartment, and he
heard Dot utter a sudden exclamation of
delight, which caused the blood to mantle
in her cheek.

That was all ; but then, impelled by an
overpowering curiosity, he advanced a few
steps, and saw something more  something
that he would have given the whole world
not to have seen.

That tall young man  impudent, ill-mannered
fellow  after a slight and embarrassed
hesitation, stooped down and
actually kissed Dot's upturned face with
an air of horribly familiar proprietorship.

You got my letter, I suppose," he said
interrogatively. " But I need not ask."

Oh ! yes. Will," she replied, her eyes
bright with a liojht that Bob had never
seen there before, and which did away with
any doubts he might have entertained as
to their owner's coldness of disposition.
That is whv I am here."

"I thought you would come to meet me,
when you knew I was passing through."

Naturally ; but oh ! Will, I feel so
wicked."

Wicked ! Pooh ! nonsense ! " he said
shortly. " What's there to feel wicked
about ? "

Mother does not know Tve gone to see

you."

He made a wry face, and Bob, looking
on, instinctively distrusted this young man,
whose manner appeared to him to be forced
and unnatural.

No, I suppose not. But, I say. Dot,
let's come into the waiting-room. It's
jollier there than here. My train does not
go on for another quarter of an hour, and,"
with a sudden flush, " I've ever so much to
tell you ; something that j'ou are bound
to know sooner or later."

What is it, Will? " she asked, alarmed
by the gravity of his tone. " If it's bad
news, don't be afraid to tell me. I'll try
and bear it."

And with that, she slipped her hand
through his arm in quite a lover-like

manner, and looked up into this face, with
oh ! such a smile, and Bob, watching the
proceedings with absorbing interest, felt a
sharp pain shoot through his heart, just as
if it had been stabbed by a knife. Ah !
the agony of that moment, and the revelation
it brought.

He slunk away with an icy, sick sensation
stealing all over his frame, and catching
at the very breath in his lungs, as it
sought to force an exit. His brow was
damp, his legs trembled beneath him.
What did it mean ? Was he mad, or
dreaming some horrible dream I Will,
Will  how he hated the name ! who was
Will ? this man Dot came to meet at a
public railway station, and dio greeted
her with such strange familiarity. He had
known the Lankesters now for some time,
but he had never once heard his name
mentioned. Of that he was positive. He
mifht be Dot's brother. For a moment

Bob breathed again. But no, if this were
so, surely she would have spoken of him
just as she spoke of Matilda, and of
Matilda's children. And if he were not
her brother ? A mist rose before his eves.
He clutched at a column to steady himself.
The world seemed so curiously unreal, so
hazy and strange.

Then a sudden thought flashed across his
mind with the vividness of certain death.
Mii]fht it not be, that Mrs. Lankester had
deceived him when talking about her
daughter, and he had made a cruel mistake
from the very beginning ?

Yes, yes, he knew it was so, and yet he
stru<:cled a,ainst the belief. He thrust it
from him fiercely, vehemently, with the
energy of despair. But in vain. The conviction
grew and strengthened, and refused
to be banished.

All the time the train in which he was
seated kept gliding through quiet green

fields dotted with resting sheep and
browsing cattle, whilst it whirled past
snug homesteads, nestling amongst yellow
corn-ricks, and swept by picturesque
villages, with red chimneys clustering
round some tall grey steeple, the miserable
young man kept saying to himself :

Now everything is explained. This
was Dot's secret  the cause of her coldness
and reserve. She was head over ears in
love with somebody else before ever I
crossed her path."

And then, in his anguish and his despair,
he ground his teeth with impotent passion,
and the veins on his forehead swelled till
they stood out like whip-cord, whilst the
storm within him raged strong.

Oh ! the misery, the mockery of life !
Was it for this that he had come to
England ? Just to get a brief glimpse of
happiness, and then to lose it for ever, and
realize that the highest good vouchsafed toman

on earth was denied him ? Oli ! it was
cruel, cruel.

Why had they not told him at once,
before he had grown to love her with such
power and intensity ? The disappointment
would have been comparatively slight.
Why had not those who knew how matters
stood warned him in time, and so prevented
the mischiefs This deadly hurt
might have been spared him. A little
frankness and foresight would have
averted the evil. But no doubt it was
nothings to them  and he laughed a bitter
laugh  nothing to anybody if he fell desperately
in love with a girl who was
already another man's property. They
would only sneer, and say he was a fool for
not uniting out how the land lay sooner.

He did not blame Dot. No unkind
thought crossed his mind in connection
with her. He exonerated her entirely.
She had done all that modest maiden could

do. Looking back, lie saw now quite
clearly how from their very first meeting
she had discouraged an} symptom of sentiment,
and steadily repressed all display of
tender feeling



But her father ! her mother ! Aye, her
mother !

Mrs. Lankester was the one who had
thrown dust in his eyes, who had egged
him on by every means in her power, and
who, he felt convinced, was bent on
securing? him as a husband for her
daughter. She had purposely practised
concealment. He was as sure of it as he
was of his own existence. So he raved all
the way up to town. But after awhile his
passion spent itself. It left him shaken to
the innermost depths of his being, but
calmer, juster. He even tried to argue
against the evidence of his own senses.

After all, it was just possible he might
be mistaken. Perhaps Will was a cousin.

Girls were often very fond of their cousins
in an innocent, confiding vSij. But no,
Dot's look of ineffable content destroyed
the supposition. No girl could look at a
man like that unless she were thoroughly
in love with him. It was useless trying to
explain away facts just because they had
dealt a death-blow to his hopes.

There was not much to be done under
the circumstances. But one thing he could
do ; namely  know the worst. He would
keep silence no longer. The passion that
consumed his heart should find an outlet
once, even if it must remain mute ever
after. Thus he resolved.

But it would be too late to see Dot that
evenings on his return from town. The
anguish must be endured for yet a few
hours more. On the next days at the
earliest possible hour, he would seek an
interview.

Then, on a sudden, he remembered with

a species of grim satisfaction, that Mrs.
Lankester was confined to her room by
rheumatism. He should see Dot alone,
thank God ! and he knew her well enough
to feel convinced that from her lips, if not
from her mother's, he should hear
nothing but the truth. Dot's statements
could be absolutely relied upon. She
would not deceive him.

Bob spent a restless, wakeful, and miserable
night. Sleep obstinately refused to
visit his tired eyelids. Coloured lights,
kaleidoscopic in shape and variety, danced
beneath them, and still further fatigued his
tired brain. His cough harassed him, and
rendered him hot and feverish. Thought,
that horrible nightmare of active minds,
effectually prevented any ease. He tossed
and tumbled between the sheets, and
counted the slow, interminable hours, until
at length dawn brought temper ar} unconsciousness.
When he arose next

morning lie felt ill, both Ijcdily and
mentally. During the last month or six
weeks his nerves had been kept in a stale
of perpetual tension. Now they were sur-excited
and utterly unhinged. The unexpected
apparition of Will had proved too
much for them.

Out of doors everything was in unison
with his feelings. The thaw  such as it
was  still continued. The sky was grey,
so also was the earth ; a leaden mist, weird,
ghostly, phantom-like seemed to descend
from the one and to exude from the other.
It wrapped a sodden shroud around the
landscape ; the trees were black, and
shining' with a moisture which trembled
between ice and water ; patches of dirty
honeycombed snow lay about in all
directions. Occasionally, some loosened
clod would come slipping down from the
roof with a dull thud, and disintegrated
particles splashed against the windowpanes.

Oh ! the misery, and chilliness, and
dreariness of it all ! The desolation that it
conveyed ! Bob sighed, as he gazed around
him, at the big empty house, the wide park,
the dripping shrubs, and the melancholy
plantations. These things were very
beautiful in their way, but they wanted
sun. He missed the brightness and warmth
of an Australian winter.

How strange it seemed, to think that
Christmas Day was close at hand. He
wondered what his mother and Belle and
the little ones were about. What an age
since he had seen them. How much he
had lived and suffered in the time. He
could hardly believe that this Bob Jarrett
was the Bob Jarrett he had known informer
days ; such an utter change had
come over him. Once he had been a high-spirited,
happy-go-lucky young fellow, and
now

Into his aching heart there suddenly

surged a great, wild longing to see his
mother, to feel her cool lips pressed to his,
to hear her gentle voice bidding him go
forth and be of good cheer.

*' Oh ! mother, mother ! " he cried aloud,
in the bitterness of an anguish too great
for many words, " how I wish you were
with me at this moment."

Nevertheless he went out to meet his
fate like a man, and the little maid-servant
who answered Doctor Lankester's front
door bell had not the least suspicion how
every nerve and pulse possessed by Mr.
Eobert Jarrett, of Straighten Court, were
quivering like a girl's, when she led him
into the house and preceded him up the
narrow staircase, to which by this time
he was well accustomed.

LOVE BEFORE MONEY.

Bob was unceremoniously ushered into

Dot's presence, without the girl being asked

whether she were at home to visitors or

not. The maid-servant had, for some time

past, looked upon him as one of the family,

and felt flattered by the attentions he was

paying her young mistress.

In anticipation of a tete-astute. Bob had

carefully prepared a little set speech, which

he hoped would not only conceal his

excessive nervousness, but also pave the

way to asking that important question,

"Who is Will, and in what relation

does h& stand to you ? Is he your brother,

your cousin, or your lover ? " which he

was dying to put.

VOL. III. 44

But directly he saw Dot, lie forgot all
about his immediate intentions, and thought
only of her, and what he could do to serve
her. Eor she had been crying, there in
the drawing-room, all alone by herself.
His heart grew big at the thought of her
distress. A pair of very red eyes, set in a
piteous little pale face, unmistakably proclaimed
that she was in trouble.

So suddenly had he come upon her that
it was impossible to attempt any evasion,
as she seemed to realize, for with evident
embarrassment she advanced to meet him.

"Why, Miss Dot!" he exclaimed in
agitated tones, her emotion proving communicative,
" what on earth is the matter
with you ? "

There was something so Sympathetic and
concerned in his way of making the inquiry,
that for all answer she sat down on the
nearest seat, and hiding her face in her
hands, burst into a perfect storm of tears

Her slight frame was shaken by sobs, wliicli
no effort appeared able to suppress.

The sight of such grief as this, simply
maddened him, and rendered him oblivious
of every consideration of prudence or self-control.
His one instinct, one desire, was
to comfort her.

In an instant, he was down on his knees
by her side, his hat and stick rolling on the
floor, whilst, unconsciously almost, a
nervous arm stole round her waist  that
slender waist which he had so often
longed to encircle, and wondered whether
he ever should.

Dots Dot ! my darling, my own dear
little woman, don't cry, sweet one. I can't
bear to see you in this state. What is it
that vexes you ? "

No  no  nothing. P  please  get  
up, Mr. Jarrett."

"I can't. I won't. Oh! Dot," and he
tore her hands from her face and devoured

44*

them with passionate kisses. " You must
know how things are with me  you cannot
have been blind all this time. Dearest,
give me the right to take care of you, and
love you. I will move heaven and earth
to make your life happy, and keep all
trouble from you. Tell me what your
sorrow is, and let me share it." The
words were spoken at last. He clenched
his teeth, and waited to hear what answer
she would give him. A shudder ran
through her frame. She tried to push
away his arm with gentle force.

Don't, Mr. Jarrett, please don't. You
you mustn't."

Mustn't ! " he cried, with bitter pain.
Oh ! Dot, I can't help myself, for I do
love you so dearly."

Hush, pray don't speak so." And she
put out a warning hand. But she might
just as well have tried to stop a mountain
torrent m its impetuous course.

It's too late to tell me to keep quiet,"
he went on, with growing passion. " I can
no longer remain silent."

Indeed  indeed it would be best," she
interrupted.

Perhaps so, but one cannot always stop
to choose the wisest course, even if one
would. Dot, I am desperate, and must have
an answer. Surely you can say yes or no."

Why do you insist on giving yourself
so much pain ? " she asked sadly.

Because, as I have said before, I love
you, and have loved you ever since the day
you came trotting down the road, and
opened that beastly gate for me. Of course
you have not thought of me. All this
comes as a surprise, but I will wait. Dot 
wait years until you get to care for me a
little bit, if only you will promise some day
to be my wife. Darling, say that I have
a chance''

His eloquent words, full of passionate

sincerity, recalled lier to herself, and to the
gravity of the situation. With an effort
she recovered her composure.

Mr. Jarrett," she said in a voice that
tried hard to appear steady, looking at him
with dim, compassionate eyes. " I am so
dreadfully sorry  I  I hoped you would
never put this question to me, for alas ! I
cannot answer it as you wish'

There was a moment's silence. Then he
staggered to his feet, and looked wildly
round the room. " You cannot," he ejaculated.
" Then there must be a reason, and
my suspicions are confirmed."

She hung her head, but made no reply.

Dot, for heaven's sake, don't keep meany
longer in suspense. This is a matter
of life or death to me."

What is it you wish to know ? " she
asked almost inaudible

I happened to be at the railway station
yesterday morning, and I saw you. You

met a young man there ; lie kissed you,
and 3'Ou seemed pleased that he should do
o. Is he "  and his utterance grew
thick  "is he anything to you ? I do
not seek to pry into your affairs from idle
curiosity, but I think I have a right to an
answer."

The colour flamed up into her face, but
she answered with quiet dignity :

You shall have one, Mr. Jarrett. The
gentleman you saw is my affianced husband.
We have been eno-ao-ed to each other for
very nearly three years."

Why did you not tell me this sooner ? '*
The words burst from him hoarse and
inarticulate.

How could I ? " she replied mournfully,
when my own parents refused to sanction
the engagement."

And you care for this man ? Dot, for
Heaven's sake, tell me the truth."

' Yes, I love him better than my life. I

would sacrifice everything in the world to
be his wife."

At this answer, Bob's senses grew dim.
The room suddenly swam before his eyes.
A sound as of mighty waves dashing
against the shore deafened his ears. For
several seconds darkness descended upon
his brain and literally paralyzed it with a
hideous and oppressive power. He grasped
at the back of a chair for support. The
world, life. Dot Lankester, appeared like an
indistinct dream. It was some time before
he recovered sufficient consciousness to be
aware that she was speaking to him and
looking up into his face with anxious,
frightened eyes.

Oh ! Mr. Harrel t. Are you ill ? What
is wrongs ? What  what have I done ? "'

He took no notice of her interrogations.
His mind could contain but one thought.

Is there no chance, Dot, none whatever
? Can nothim;] alter your decision ? "

he asked in a subdued, unnatural voice,
which sounded strange even to himself.

The tears rushed to her eyes. An overpowering
pity filled her being. He was so
honest, so good and unselfish, so worthy of
love, and yet  she had none to give.

No," she said softly but firmly. " I
cannot raise false hopes. I have tried very
hard to make 3"0u understand how things
were. Of course, when we first met, it did
not matter, and there seemed no special
reason why you should be told about Will.
But afterwards, when I began to suspect
that you liked me, then, although I was
not sure of the correctness of my suspicion,
I did my very best to impress upon your
mind the fact that some barrier existed
between us. If I had spoken out, as
perhaps I ought to have done, you might
have considered me forward, presumptuous
and conceited. It appeared to me immodest
to make sure of a man's love before

he had himself declared that his affections
were engaged. I was placed in a dilemma,
80 held my peace, though I now feel I have
been bitterly to blame' And once more
the tears threatened to overflow their soft-fringed
boundaries.

No, Dot," he said sorrowfully. " You
could not have told me the truth more
surely and impressively than you did. Only,
you see, I refused to take warning in time.
I do not wish to accuse anyone, but your
mother, some weeks ago, certainly led me
to believe that you were heart-whole ; she
even regretted the scarcity of eligible young
men in this part of the country."

If YOU knew mamma as well as I do,
you would not have paid any attention to

what she " began Dot, but she checked

herself suddenly, and blushed as red as a
rose. Her young voice rang with an
unconscious scorn, which revealed more,
than any number of condemnatory speeches.

A long pause ensued, Bob's brows were
knit. He was evidently recalling his first
interview with Mrs. Lankester, and no very-pleasant
memories resulted.

Dot was the first to speak.

Mr. Jarrett," she said at length, " I,
for one, have never wilfully deceived you,
but all the same, some little explanation is
your due. You think you have been badly
treated in this matter."

Not by you," he interposed. " Never
for one instant by you."

If not by me, then by my relatives.
It comes to the same thing. Have you
patience to listen to a long story ? if so I
can render clear some few points that now
very naturally puzzle you."

Patience ! " he retorted with keen
misery. " When this is the last time I
may ever be alone with you again. Oh !
Dot, I resemble a miser counting his
money. Every moment spent in your company

is like precious gold. Would that
your story would last as long as there is
life in my wretched body'*

She put her finger to her lips, gently
rebuking the desolate and rebellious spirit
he displayed, yet the heart within her was
very sore, and swollen with compassion.

He had been such a true, staunch friend
to her, and she liked him so much ; she so
thoroughly appreciated his many sterling
qualities, and the kindliness and simplicity
of his nature. Fate, and fate alone, had
brought into her horoscope somebody else
before she had ever had the chance of meetings
him. Otherwise the issue mii][ht have
been very different. Mr. Jarrett was rich,
a splendid match in every way for the
daughter of a humble village doctor. And
Will was poor ; so poor that he could not
afford to keep a wife, and might not be
able to indulge in such a luxury for many
years. Without being worldly, she knew

enoucrli of the world to realize all the
advantages offered by an alliance with Mr.
Jarrett, of Straighten Court. Yet no
thought of disloyalty to Will found even a
temporary dwelling place in her mind,
alt-hough since their last meetings a horrible
suspicion embittered her very existence.
She wished she had a twin sister exactly
like herself in outward appearance, but infinitely
more deserving in every other way,
so that Bob could marry her and be comforted.
" The pity of it, the pity of it."
That was her predominating feeling. Such
a waste of valuable affection  an affection
calculated to make any girl supremely
happy  thrown away in a wrong direction.
Love, so precious and so holy, when genuine
ass in the present case, showered upon one
who had not the power to return it. everything
at cross purposes, everything wrong.
This was how Dot felt. Bob had paid her
the greatest compliment a man can pay a

woman. Instead of filling( her soul with
joy, it had steeped it in sadness. All she
could do to alleviate his sufferings was to
give him her fullest confidence, and hold
nothing back. Absolute frankness on her
part might perhaps render things a little
less hard to bear on his. It might console
him somewhat, to learn that he had never
had a chance of gaining her love, since her
troth was plighted long before he had ever
set foot in Enijland, or dreamt of inheritance
his uncle's property. If she had been
brave and done violence to her feelings
sooner, then he might have been spared
much pain. She made a sign to Bob to be
seated, then drawing her chair close beside
him, began in a low but clear voice :

Did you happen to notice a grey stone
house, just outside Smallborough, standing
some little way back from the road, the
day you were good enough to mount me
on Kin u fisher ? "

You mean that quaint, old-fashioned
house with an apple orchard ? Yes, I
remember it well."

It was inhabited some few years ago by
one Mr. Barrington, and his wife and children.
In those days they were comfortably
off, and Mr. Barrington lived the life of a
country squire. The eldest boy, Will,
when quite a child, displayed a perfect
passion for surgery."

Your Will, Dot? " interrupted Bob.

"Yes," reddening, "my Will." Then
she added under her breath, "My Will
that was ; pray God he is so still." When
he was eighteen," she continued in a louder
key, " my father, partly through friendship
and partly because Will's presence was an
additional source of income, took him to
live with us as a gentleman apprentice. At
that time I was fifteen years old, but I had
known Will ever since my childhood. We
had had many a romp together, and he

always distinguished me from the other
girls in the neighbourhood, and declared
that I was his little sweetheart, and should
marry him some day. When he came to
live with us, and we saw each other constantly,
our affection ripened. On his
twenty first birthday he went to my parents
and asked them to give their consent to his
courtship. To make a long story short, we
were formally engaged."

And how old were you ? " asked her
listener. " You look such a baby, even
now."

Just a few days over seventeen. Will
and I had one week's perfect happiness,
and then bad times came for both of us.
His father woke up one fine morning to
find himself ruined throuo:li the absconding
and mal practices of a fraudulent trustee.
Instead of poor Will receiving an income,
he had now to work for his living in
earnest, and could congratulate himself

on having adopted a profession. I
hardly like to repeat all that took place
in our family. Suffice it, that my mother,
who as long as she thought Will's people
were rich, quite approved of the marriage,
and in fact had done her best to promote
it, now suddenly turned round and refused
to sanction our engagement."

That was awful hard lines upon you,"
murmured Bob.

Yes, it was, for she insisted upon my
giving Will up, and having nothing more to
say to him."

And did you ? "

How could I ? People can't change
like that simply because they are told to.
You can order a good many things in this
world, but you can't order a loving heart
to transfer its allegiance."

Aye, that's true," sighed Bob regretfully.


I could no more desert poor Will when
VOL. III. 45

lie was in trouble, and most needed sympathy
and encouragement, than fly," continued
Dot warmly. " I refused flatly to obey
my mother's bidding. Then came scenes,
horrible to remember. We have never
been quite friendly since."

Did not your father take your part ?
He seems so fond of you."

Yes, in a way. He was far from
approving of my mother's conduct, but he
did not dare say much, on account of
Matilda, whose poverty is always thrown
in his face. Neither did he at all like the
idea of a lon<x enj]fafem.ent, likely to last
for years. In short, the marriage was
broken off, only Will and I vowed when we
wished each other good-bye, that we would
be true and faithful, and never, never, never
marry anybody else." Dot here tried hard
to suppress a sob. She could not tell any
Kvinc: beiiiix, the new trouble that weighed
so heavily upon her spirits. Her short

interview vsitli Will had left her sadder
than before. He seemed to have become
estranged, and to be concealing something
from her.

"And wore your father and mother
aware of this resolution ? " asked Bob,

Oh ! dear, yes. Papa did what he
could to help us-by getting Will a minor
appointment at one of the big London
hospitals, which at all events enabled him
to keep himself. As for my mother, she
refused to allow the poor boy's name to be
mentioned in her presence, and so you see
you see," said the girl, breaking down
completely, " that was how you never
came to hear anything about him. But
mother was not as much to blame as you
seem to think, since although I considered
myself engaged, she did not."

Bob had grown paler and paler during
the above recital. It effectually quenched
any last remaining hopes, and made his

45*

cup of bitterness overflow. Dot's love
was evidently no mere idle fancy, but a
deep-rooted passion, which neither opposition
nor distance had been able to overcome.
That fortunate Will ! What if he
were penniless ? He envied him from the
bottom of his heart, and would gladly have
changed places with him, had it been
possible.

Do you understand ? " said Dot, wondering
at his continued silence.

"Yes," he said in a hoarse, constrained
voice, " I understand, and there is nothing
more to be said. I only beg pardon for
my folly."

' Don't call it folly," she returned. " It
is * kismet.' We mortals have really very
little power over the march of events."

What were you crying about when I
came in ? " he asked abruptly.

She flushed crimson. It was impossible
to reveal the distracting thought that tor-merited

lier, and wbicli was the real cause
of her present disquietude.

It seems that one of the people in the
village saw me at the station yesterday.
Will was only passing through on business.
I had not seen him for a whole year, and
he wrote and begged me to meet him ;
and oh ! Mr. Jarrett, I could not help
doinfif so. I knew if I asked mamma's
leave she would not give it, so I went
without. She was dreadfully angry, and
said such cruel, cruel things."

Dot could not tell the whole truth ; and
it was easier to account for her red eyes in
this way than in any other.

What sort of things ? " inquired Bob,
not trusting himself to look at his companion.


She went on about my giving Will up,
and called him a pauper and horrible
names, which made my blood boil, and
then she wanted me to promise to "

Marry me, eh ? " lie said grimly.
Well, go on," he continued, as Dot
turned scarlet. " Had you any other
cause of trouble, or was that the sole
one ? "

'Is it very wicked to wish for things
one can't have ? " she rejoined innocently.

I don't know ; but if it is, I am a
veritable fiend at this moment."

"I do so wish I had five thousand
pounds."

Five thousand pounds 1 Why, what
would you do with such a sum ? "

Give it to Will, of course. He has a
splendid opening. An excellent practice has
been offered to him in one of the suburbs
of London, which is worth between four
and five hundred a sear, but the present
practitioner would have to be bought out,
and that is just what Will can't do."

'' Is there no chance of his setting: the
money, or of his father helping him ? "

No, none, whatever. Mr. Barrington
can't, poor man, even if he would. We
had a long talk about it yesterday, and put
our heads together, but neither of us
could see our way in the least. Will says
this practice would be the making of him,
and that it is absurd for people to think of
marrying without a proper income."

Was he always so wise ? " inquired
Bob.

She hesitated a moment, and then with
a sudden burst of tears, said, "No, not
always. Once upon a time he never seemed
to care about the money part of the business,
but he does now."

And was that what you were crying
about. Dot? "

Yes, I suppose so. What with one
thing and another, I felt regularly out of
sorts this morning."

Bob stood up, as if to go. A wild,
insensate joy surged up into his heart

when he heard that a very real obstacle
existed, which would prevent the girl from
becoming Will Barrington's wife, at all
events for a considerable time. Delay
meant a chance still. He might profit by
the young people's difficulties. The next
moment he felt thoroughly ashamed of himself
for harbouring such a feeling. Was
this his love ? this his devotion ?

What a poor, base, selfish passion was
that, which refused to rejoice in the
happiness and welfare of its object. How
mean and unworthy of an honest man. A
flush of self-abasement coloured his cheek.

Dot," he said, " answer me one question,
though it is absurd my asking it. Do
you care very much for this Will of yours,
so much that you feel as if you could not
live without him ? "

She looked up into his face. The solemnity
of his manner awed her.

Yes, Mr. Jarrett, that is exactly how

I do feel. You are not angry with me,
are you ? "

Angry ? No ; wliy should I be angry
simply because the love of as dear and
honest a girl as ever walked this earth is
not for me ? Only I wish to goodness that
Will had never been born."

He came first," she said simply. " I
knew him long before I knew you. I can't
help myself now."

His sense of rectitude admitted. the plea.
There was no gainsaying its truth.

Yes," he said, " he came first, lucky
beggar. That's where the mischief lay.
And now I am going. Good-bye, Dot, dear,
may God bless'you, and send you health
and happiness."

The tears trickled down her face. There
was something in her heart which she
scarcely understood, and which she suppressed
as treason to Will.

Good-bye, Mr. Jarrett. You will let

me be your friend still, von't you ? I  I
shall see you sometimes ? "

Yes, most certainly. But I think I
shall go away for a bit  at all events until
I have got over this." Then he took her
hand in his, and added hastily " And, I
sa', Dot, don't be low-spirited. Look at
the cheerful side of things, there's a dear.
I feel certain they'll all come right in the
end." And with that he was gone, leaving
her to wonder what was the special quality
which enabled him, when he suffered so
cruelly himself, to draw a veil over his own
disappointment, and seek only to comfort
her. All at once she realized that he had
even higher attributes than she had given
him credit for. The pleasant, upright,
straightforward, yet withal somewhat simple
and unpolished youth was capable of
real heroism. She felt that had it not been
for Will's prior claims, she never could
have sent him away. But Bob's heart as

lie walked towards home might have been
made of lead.

Every hope that had ever nourished it,
and caused it to beat fast and slow by
turns, was now finally crushed. He felt as
if his life were at an end. All the joy and
the physical enjoyment of existence had
vanished. What were wealth and position
without Dot to share them ?

Henceforth there was nothing to look
forward to, nothing to strive for, nothing to
live for. He looked up abstractedly at the
sky. It was grey and sombre. But not
greyer or more sombre than his thoughts.
He glanced at the cold earth, enshrouded in
spectral mist. It was drear and gloomy.
But not drearier or gloomier than seemed
his future.

How the wind blew, and soughed through
the leafless trees! How it penetrated to
the very bones, and defied even the warmest
clothing.

And out in Australia the sun was
shining, the cattle were straying over the
brown ground, panting for shade, and his
mother was probably at that very moment
basking in the verandah .with the little
ones around her. Oh ! the sun, and the
warmth, and the peace. How he longed
for them all. With Schopenhauer, his
weary soul cried out for " the blissful repose
of nothing."

And then a chilly blast opposed his
progress, the rain came sleeting down, and
he coughed. The cough reminded him
that the body has inherited a heritage of
pain. Through his back, through his
chest and his shoulder-blades there stole a
dull acliino: sense of discomfort, which
came as an aggravating accompaniment to
his mental misery, just as if the one were
not enou2[li without the other.

JUMPING MUDDYEORD BOTTOM.

Fortunately, unhappy thoughts, like
everything else on this earth, are subject
to the law of finality Before long Bob's
meditations were interrupted in an altogether
unexpected fashion.

As he turned in at the gate of his own
park, the blast of a horn fell upon his ears,
waking echoes that had slept silent for
many a day ; and a few minutes afterwards
he found himself overtaken by the whole
of the Morbey Anstead Hunt, who chased
their fox into his shrubberies, and pursued
him hotly, until the hounds became perplexed
by the number of fresh animals that
sprang up. The rain now came down in
torrents, discharged with icy force from a

lowering cloud overhead. So fierce was
this shower that it caused a halt in the
proceedings, and people with one accord
began to look about for an available place
of shelter.

"Won't you come in? You had much
better all come in," cried Bob, addressing
friends and foes alike. '' It's not a bit of
good standing out there and getting wet
through. Come in, come in, and welcome."

So hearty was the hospitality offered, and
so intensely disagreeable the weather, that
a considerable number of people gladly
responded to his invitation. One set the
example to the other, and very soon there
was quite a crowd of men and vomen
inside the spacious hall of Straighten
Court, tossing off Bob's brown sherry with
evident relish, and nibbling daintily at
sandwich or biscuit. The servants had
not had such a bustling up for many a
year, and were amazed at so heterogeneous

an influx of visitors, the majority of whom
their late master would not have condescended
to talk to, much less ask beneath
his roof. " Quantity, but not quality,"
sneered the pompous butler to his satellite,
as he passed him bearing a loaded tray of
empty glasses. As for Bob, it cheered him
to see human faces around. It was far
better than coming home and finding the
place empty, and having nothing to do but
sit down and think over the events of the
morning. He tried to drive away thought
by moving about among his guests and
personally attending to their wants, and he
won the hearts of all the farmers present
by ringing the bell and ordering up some
very choice old port for their especial
benefit, and wishing cood luck to agriculture.
But he looked in vain for Lord
Littelbrane. His lordship was as obstinately
stand-off as on the never-to-be-forootten
occasion of Stiffton Flat races. Neither

could he discern General Prosieboy, wdiicli
caused him some slight wonderment, for he
had made a pretty correct estimate of that
gentleman's character.

However, he would probably have felt
consoled for his absence, had he been
aware of the fact, that the gallant old
warrior was at that very moment imbibing
a glass of stiff whisky and water in a
covered yard at his (Bob's) expense, and
exchanging witticisms with the under-housemaid.


Ladies are proverbially brave, and Lady
De Fochsey, not calculating on quite such
a day, had gone out hunting with the rest.
StifTshire was a county that offered but few
resources for the stay-at-homes. Those who
did not follow the chase led lives of absolute
stay-nation ; and a frost was terrible, for all
the idle young men went posting off to
London immediately, and there were none
but old fogies left to talk to.

"Now her ladyship's smart scarlet jacket,
with its white facings, light waistcoat and
etceteras, had cost the best part of sixteen
guineas ; as a consequence she entertained
a erreat reo-ard and veneration for it.
Having sallied forth without a covert coat,
she was in considerable trepidation at the
thought of the beautiful, extra fine cloth
stretching, and the entire garment thus
becoming too large. It fitted without a
wrinkle at present, but what might be the
result if once it "sot wet throuh ? This
was the first season she had ventured to
appear in " pink," and so far she had been
fortunate enough to escape any drenching
rain. The scarlet came out as fresh and
bright as ever, and filled her every time she
wore it with an impression of her own
good looks, which to a naturally pretty
woman was eminently agreeable and gratifying
in the extreme.

But to-day the weather threatened to
VOL. III. 46

rob this much-prized garment of all its
brilliancy. After her last somewhat unfriendly
parting with Mr. Jarrett, she had
resolved in a fit of petulance to have
nothing more to say to him. There was
a point when running after men became a
nuisance, and did not repay the inevitable
trouble. If, in spite of all his aptitudes,
Bob refused to act the part of " kindred
spirit," why, then she must look about her
and find one elsewhere. A vulgar saying,
but a true, had it that there were " as
many fish in the sa as ever came out of
it."

It was quite . possible to establish
psychological relations with some individual
more responsive, and altogether
endowed with finer sensibilities. Mr.
Jarrett was good-looking, but horribly
matter-of-fact. He looked at things from
quite a vulgar and material point of view.

In spite of such reflections, when her

ladyship saw several of her friends and
acquaintances march boldly into Straighten
Court, after first leaving their horses in the
spacious stables, she put her pride in her
pocket, and followed suit. The scarlet
jacket was more important at this juncture
than dignity ; already there were great,
dark splashes upon it, and she could almost
fancy that the waist had begun to expand.

So she jumped hastily to the ground,
threw her reins to the nearest groom, and
entered the house without more ado. Her
theory was, that woman should always
cultivate a chameleon-like nature, since in
the first place circumstances forced her to
be adaptive ; and in the second, it gave her
such an enormous advantage, when she
could present many fronts to her natural
enemy  man. Nothing disconcerted him
so much as blowing hot and cold by turns.

When Bob saw who the new arrival was,
a smile spread over his features.

46*

Lady De Fochsey ! " he exclaimed intones
of unmistakable gratification, " this
is indeed kind. I thought you had made
up your mind, after our last meeting, to
join the majority, and cut me dead."

She looked a little embarrassed at this
speech, but turned it off with a laugh.

You were a very foolish, headstrong
boy, but I dare say you have grown wiser
by this time, and at any rate, I intend to
give you another chance," she said with a
pretty arch smile.

I'm delighted to hear it. I could not
bear to think we had quarrelled."

*' It was your own fault," she rejoined,
sipping at a glass of sherry which Bob had
just handed her. " But as a proof of my
magnanimity I give you your choice.
What is it to be, war or peace ? Decide
either way 3'ou like." And she made a little
coquettish grimace, quite thrown away upon
the person it was intended to captivate.

Oil 1 peace, peace," he murmured
hurriedly ; "I am far too miserable at
the present moment to care to be at
loggerheads with any one."

She raised her eyebrows in astonishment,
and looked at him keenly and critically.
As she did so, she was struck all at once by
the altered expression of his countenance,
which made it appear almost ten jesivs
older. His despondency and dejection were
so great that he did not even seek to
conceal them, as most certainly he would
have striven to do later on. A deep soul-weariness
prevents good acting.

Why, Bob," she ejaculated, falling back
into the familiar style of nomenclature first
adopted, " what on earth's the matter with
you? You look all to pieces."

I look what I am, then."

But what's wrong. What are you
miserable about ? "

No  no  nothing," he stammered in

return ; " at least, nothing that I care to
talk of."

Is it money ? "

"No."

' Business ? "

No."

Family worries ? "

"No."

Then it's love as a matter of course.
It can't possibly be anything else."

He tossed off a glass of wine, but made
no reply. She, however, needed none.

1 suppose the ' beautiful being ' who I
chaffed you about the other day is at the
bottom of this tremendously tragical affair,
eh?" she resumed insistently. "Has the
young person not been kind ? "

Bob still maintained an obstinate silence.
It was torture to have his freshly-inflicted
wound so mercilessly probed by a cruel
female hand. He writhed like a captured
bird caught in a net.

Come, it's not very civil of you to
decline to answer a question made by a
lady. How is lie ? "

"How is who?" he asked irritably,
goaded into speech at last.

Why ! your little friend in the patched
habit  the doctor's daughter ; or if you
want it put clearer, the girl you were
carrying on with so outrageously."

The blood flew to his brow. Indignation
made every muscle quiver.

I presume you mean Miss Lankester !
and as for carrying on, as you call it, I'm
not carrying on at all."

Oh ! aren't you ? Since when have
you come to your senses, pray ? "

Since half-past ten o'clock this
morning, if you must know the precise
hour."

Well, I'm glad you've escaped from
that exceedingly forward and immodest
young woman. And all I can say is, that

the way she ran after you out hunting was
really quite disgusting''

"She didn't do anything of the sort," he
retorted angrily. " And please don't
slander her."

I'm not slandering her ; nasty, sly
little elinor, though I'm sure she deserves

it."

Yes, you are, and if you want to hear
the truth of the matter, I'll tell it you,
rather than stand by and hear Miss Lankester
abused."

"Well?" said her ladyship interrogatively,
making no attempt to conceal her
curiosity.

Miss Lankester, instead of behaving in
the manner you assert, happens to be
already engaged, and won't have a word to
say to me. There ! " And Bob clenched
his teeth in anguish.

She shrugged her shoulders with a truly
provoking gesture of incredulity. That a

person in the exceedingly humble position
of a country doctor's daughter, should
stick to any pre-formed engagement, when
she had the chance of securing Mr. Jarrett,
of Straighten Court, surpassed her comprehension
altogether. Her mind could
not realize the possibility of so tremendous
an act of folly.

*' Pshaw ! What's the good of telling me
such nonsense as that. I really wonder
where you expect to go to."

But again he relapsed into silence. Her
lively sallies could not succeed in rousing
him from the dejection in which he was
steeped. This fact dawned upon her by
degrees. She began to be aware that something
was very seriously wrong with him.
Now that there was no longer any question
of rivalry she could afford to be generous
and sympathetic. Besides, men were often
caught on the rebound. If he lead not
been so good-looking she would not have

troubled herself about him one bit.'but as
it was, she could not help feeling interested
in his sorrows  imaginary or otherwise.

"Bob," she said with increasing kindliness.
" Am I to understand that you have
proposed co this little insignificant girl, and
that she has actually refused you ? "

He turned sharply away. Her eyes
seemed to sear him like scorching flame.
Why could she not leave him alone ? What
was it to her, whether he had asked Dot
Lankester to be his wife or not ?

Lady De Fochsey," he said with a
petulant gesture, " you are of course at
liberty to draw any conclusions you choose
from our conversation. I can only say
that the subject is a painful one, and I
would feel obliged by your not discussing
it. I  I "  breaking down suddenly 
'' am very unhappy."

She might be foolish, but apart from her
vanities and coquetry, she was by no means

a bad-hearted woman. Moreover, lie felt
that she had pressed him a trifle ungenerously.
His utter despondency caused
her to experience a sensation of genuine
emotion, such as she had not felt for a
long time.

How nice it must be to be loved like
this. How happy it would make her to
inspire so real a passion.

There was something artless and engaging
about him ; simple, perhaps, yet withal
different from other men of her acquaintance.
His youth, too, appealed to her.
Ever since she had turned five-and-twenty
she had developed a strong partiality for
boys. Candour and innocence were
refreshing from their very rarity.

Look here, Bob," she said, " you and
I may have had our little differences, but
I'm not one to bear malice, and if you feel
low-spirited, and in want of sympathy and
consolation, why then," giving his hand a

Ljentle pressure, " you know where to

come."

A lump rose up in his throat. He was
much too wretched to care to avail himself
of the invitation, but he felt that it was
kindly meant. And a little kindness goes
such a long way when one is in trouble.
In a curiously husky voice he said,
Thank you," and then hurried away to
the nearest window, where he stood for
several seconds resolutely forcing back a
certain moisture that dimmed his eyesight.
Lady De Fochsey had never been so near
converting him into a medium capable of
receiving and transfusing electric force, but
her success was due to human sympathy
and not to spiritualistic agencies. A break
in the sky, a gleam of sickly ligt, and an
abatement in the rain now caused those
within doors to hurry out in search of their
horses.

Directly his guests showed symptoms of

departing, Bob went upstairs and hastily
donned hunting attire. He might as well
go out as stay at home ; moreover, he felt
in a mood when, to ride recklessly at a
certain number of big fences, and to gallop
at full speed across the green pastures
would act as a sedative and bring relief to
his overwrought nerves.

He had previously ordered Kingfisher to
be got ready. He had never yet been on
his back, having, up till to-day, religiously
reserved his best horse for Dot ; but now 
and a wave of bitterness flooded his spirit
what was the use of any longer keeping
him for that purpose ? After what had
passed, he felt that nothing would ever
induce her to ride him again, and place
herself under an obligation. He remembered
her original reluctance, which of
course would henceforth be intensified.

Oh ! how sad it was, to find all one's
dreaming, dreams and not realities  to seethe

airy structure of hope and love, so
skilfully constructed in the chambers of
one's mind, crumble away at the first unexpected
stroke. What a blankness and
dreariness remained behind when all the
picturing of the imagination proved vain
and could never be attained. How brightness
turned to darkness, pleasure to pain,
and youth to premature old age. Life was
very, very cruel ; despair its key-note. So
he mused as he mounted his horse.

A minute or two later, Burnett sallied
forth from the washhouse, where he had
taken refuse, and calling: to his hounds to
follow him, trotted out on to the lawn,
where he was soon joined by the entire
field. By this time there was not much
chance of hitting of! the line of the hunted
fox, so it was resolved to draw sundry plantations
within the precincts of the park.
A small spinney was first called upon, which
immediately furnished a fine, white-tagged

old fellow. Judi?inQ[ from his behaviour he
appeared to be a stranger, for, unlike the
home-bred article, he showed no disposition
to linger, but at once set his mask straight
for the open.

Owing to the recent frost, the weather,
and various causes, the Field was a much
smaller one than usual, and all those who
meant '' going " could do so to-day, and
had no excuse for lagging behind. Even
the starting rush for the nearest available
gate was comparatively mild, and no one
got blocked for more than a few seconds.
Consequently, everybody possessing the inclination
secured a good start. A chorus
of melodious music filled the air. From
deep-throated followers burst the familiar
sound which cheers the heart of every
thorough sportsman. Hounds dashed out
of the spinney and flashed across the greensward
like a silver comet.

What mattered then the wind and the

rain, when two and twenty couple were
racing ahead, throwing their tongues joyously
and flinging after their quarry with
glorious dash and resolution ? Who cared
then if the sky were grey or blue, the
atmosphere dry or moist, the wind chilly
or the reverse ? Every mind, human as
well as canine, was concentrated on the
chase. A look of determination stole over
men's features. They set their jaws, tightened
their reins, settled themselves in their
saddles, and prepared to ride hard in defiance
of cold and wet. In another minute
they were out of the park and into the
fields beyond. Ilere the fun began, for
Eeynard was evidently determined on putting
roadsters to confusion, and chose a beeline
across country.

KiQ. the fences round Straighten villaf]e
were always, but to-day they seemed even
bigger than usual, or else this crafty pug
had a better notion of baulking the enemy.

Without hesitation he led his foes straight
down to a yawning bottom, with a thickset
fence on the near side, and a positively
ghastly gully on the off. The line of pursuit
was checked. A more awkward obstacle
could not well be imagined. In the
annals of the Hunt it was recorded that no
man had ever cleared Muddyford Bottom
at this particular spot.

With muttered execrations, the leading
horsemen  Burnett amongst the rest 
pulled up and looked round for a place
where, with a crawl, a splash and a lucky
scramble, they could get in and out.

Bob had two advantages over his companions.
He was a stranger and did not
know the country, and he was reckless  at
all events on this particular day. To break
his neck out hunting seemed to him just
then the highest good that was left to him
in life. He courted death, though deathlike
a shy maiden, is apt to refuse too
VOL. III. 47

ardent a wooer. The biircrer the fence, the
more eagerly did Bob welcome it. It did
not matter what evil befell him, now that
Dot had given him his cone. Of any effect
he was likely to produce, he did not think
for an instant. He was much too miserable
to care any longer for other people's
opinions.

His face was drawn, his eyes wild and
bloodshot. Those who noticed his appearance
whispered that he had been drinking
heavily, but this was a libel. He might
not be over sane, but at all events liquor
had nothing to do with his insanity. It
was unrequited passion that rendered him
obvious to personal danger, and lent him
a courage bordering on madness.

Anyhow, whilst his neighbours were
coasting up and down the Bottom, and
hounds were rapidly disappearing from
vision, though their keen notes came
floating backward to the ear  for the ladies

were garrulous to-day  lie took Kingfisher
sharply by the head, turned him round and
rushed him at the formidable chasm.

The good horse was only just out of his
stable, and as fresh as paint. He needed
no second invitation, especially with the
pack stealing away in front of him.
Besides, it required an exceptionally
awkward fence to stop him. Other horses
might find Wiltshire tax their powers, but
it was not often that he failed to prove
equal to the occasion. But best of all,
his heart was in the right place.

He made a magnificent bound, and did
not attempt to refuse. Only when he saw
what an abyss confronted him on the
landing side, he jerked his hind quarters
round with a desperate effort. Even then
he dropped both hind legs, and threw Bob
rioht on to his neck. For a second it was
touch and go whether he would fall or not,
but he was as active as a cat, and making

47*

a fifallant strui?f]fle, recovered himself, and
was up and away in less time than it takes
to tell of.

For once, Muddyford Bottom had been
fairly jumped. It measured four and
twenty feet across, and so much was it
dreaded that not another soul ventured to
follow Bob's example. He was alone with
hounds, and gained an advantage which
throughout the run none succeeded in
wresting from him.

The Mutual Adorationites gnashed their
teeth with impotent rage. They could not
produce a Mmrod to compete with the
much abused and despised " outsider,"
whom, without even knowing, tliev had
seen fit to condemn. Not one of their
number could touch him. He showed his
back to the whole crew, lords, generals and
captains, and in some quarters there was
glee, in others, tribulation.

Meantime, Bob pursued his victorious

career. His blood was literally on fire.
A wild, hot glow pervaded his entire
frame. He was scarcely conscious of his
own actions. It still seemed to him as if
he were trying to battle his way out of
some dark nightmare which oppressed his
spirit with a maddening intensity. He kept
his eye vacantly fixed on the leading
hounds, and took little or no heed of the
intervening fences. Kingfisher was left
to negotiate them as he pleased, and perhaps
for that reason jumped all the
more perfectly, for he dearly liked
having his head and not being interfered
with.

And now it came on to pour again
mercilessly. In five minutes the rain had
penetrated through every portion of Bob's
coat. But he never even noticed it. He
was impervious to outside considerations.
The chaos of his brain refused external
detail. Even excitement could not

altogether chase away despair, though it
lightened it for the time being.

Had he been riding any other horse but
Kingfisher, he must have " come to grief "
a dozen times over. As it was, his escapes
were marvellous. Boxers, bullfinches,
break-neck timber, nothing could stop him.
Where the hounds went there went he,
himself and steed seeming to possess supernatural
powers.

That run is famous to this day in the
chronicles of the Morbe} Anstead Hunt.
The Field and the County Gentleman wrote
such glowing paragraphs about it, that it
is needless to describe it minutely. Even
those who most felt their defeat admitted
that one man had the best of it throughout,
and that this fortunate and much-to-be
envied individual was Eobert Jarrett, Esq.,
of Straighten! Court.

When, after fifty-five panting minutes.
Bob pulled up his foaming horse, and

held the dead fox aloft, amid a circle of
clamouring hounds, whilst he waited for
Burnett to make his appearance, he little
dreamt of the glory he had gained, or
the reputation won. Nevertheless, during
those few sweet moments, he almost
enjoyed himself and forgot Dot. But not
for long.

When the fun was over and the excitement
at an end, then the internal force
evaporated which had hitherto sustained
him. A sick, weary, deadening feeling
stole over his frame. He had but the
one horse out, who had earned undying
fame, but the gallant animal was done
to a turn, which was not to be wondered
at, seeing that having received no orders
to the contrary, Matthews had watered
and fed him as usual. And now Bob
patted Kingfisher mechanically on the
neck, and turned his head towards
home.

Hunting was a first-rate sport. No one
relished it more than he did  but, after
all, hunting was not Dot, and without
Dot life had lost its flavour.

Eleven miles as the crow flies had that
good, stout-hearted fox taken him from
Straighten Court. It was quite dark
when he reached home. The short December
day had closed in, and the rain
still descended with steady persistency.

He felt it now, for the warmth which
had animated his blood while the run lasted,
had slowly given place to a deadly chill.

He shivered as he rode under the dark
trees of the avenue, and heard drop after
drop roll to the ground. When he got
into the stable yard, he was so stiff and
so numbed that Matthews had to help
him to dismount. His hands and feet
had lost all sensation.

Take a warm bath, sir, take a warm
bath, and 'ave a drop of something hot to

drink," counselled the groom, as this old
master stood and trembled. " It's been a
mortal cold day, and you've got a regular
chill on you."

But Bob, instead of listening to good
advice, insisted on loitering about, until he
had ascertained that Kingfisher was none
the worse for his exertions.

I should think myself a very poor sort
of sportsman, Matthews," he said, " if I
looked after No. One before looking after
my horse."

Matthews smiled approvingly. The more
he saw of Bob the better he liked him.

There's a many gentlemen," he said,
in this country who rides well, but there
be mighty few who considers their 'losses
afore themselves. Times 'as haltered since
I was a boy. But now go and get changed,
do-ee. What am I here for, except to see
after the nags ? " Upon which. Bob entered
the house.

A PARTING BEQUEST.

The next day Bob was seriously ill ; so ill
that he was obliged to send for Doctor Lankester
to come and see him in his professional
capacity. Tie had had no rest
all night, a sharp pain in his side, accompanied
by an unusual difficulty in breathing
having quite prevented his getting any
sleep. During the long hours of darkness
he jumped the Muddy ford Bottom a
hundred times in imagination, whilst every
formidable fence cleared during that never-to-be-forgotten
run, appeared photographed
upon his brain with the distinctness of a
miniature.

Doctor Lankester found him sitting

cowering over a blazing fire in the smoke


His eyes were bright, his cheeks unnaturally
flushed, his skin dry and parched ;
yet, in spite of these and other feverish
symptoms, he complained of an intense
feeling of chilliness.

You say you have a pain in your left
side ? " asked the doctor.

"Yes, dreadful. It's just like a knife
running through one."

Hem ! And you experience difficulty
in breathing ? "

I do. Once or twice during the night
I though I should have been suffocated'*

Are you hot and cold by turns, or do
you feel cold all the time ? "

Now you mention it, I get awfully
warm every now and then."

Ah ! I thought so. You will have to
be careful, my dear boy, and do exactly as
I tell you."

Although Doctor Lankester was far too
experienced in his profession to alarm a
patient needlessly, his grave countenance
showed that he did not at all like Bob's
appearance. Acting with medical authority,
he ordered him back to bed at
once, recommending warmth and quiet.
He saw these orders obeyed, and remained
some little time giving instructions to
Charles, who was appointed to wait upon
the invalid.

What a fuss about nothing ! " exclaimed
Bob, trying to speak cheerily. But though
he professed a great disdain of coddling,
he was glad to be forced to lie still, since
he realized that he was considerably worse
than he chose to admit.

Doctor Lankester gave him no choice,
but put him on the sick list there and
then, and in his heart of hearts he thankfully
submitted.

After a while the doctor took his leave,

saying lie would send round some suitable
medicine and look in aoain later on.

He was as good as this word, for towards
evening he once more visited Straiglitem
Court, and stayed there over an hour,
personally seeing that all his directions had
been carried out. This having been done,
he was distressed to find Bob worse instead
of better, and the suspicions which he had
entertained earlier in the day now received
the fullest confirmation. He no looser
doubted what his friend's malady was, and
therefore took it upon himself to give the
necessary orders.

Entirely on his own responsibility he
telegraphed to a well-known London
institution for a trained nurse to be sent
down the first thing the next morning. He
knew nor that the young man's illness
was no passing indisposition, but likely to
prove a serious affair, requiring the
greatest care and attention. Bob's lonely

position filled him with compassion, and he
was determined, individually, to do all he
could do for him.

When he reached home he said as much
to his daughter. Mrs. Lankester had gone
to dine with a relation, and was not
expected back till the evening.

I'm afraid our friend Jarrett is in a bad
way," he concluded, after giving Dot a
detailed account of his patient's condition.
I don't like the look of things at all. He
doesn't know it, but he has got a weak
chest naturally, and our English climate
has played the bear with him."

Oh ! papa," cried the girl, alarmed by
the gravity of her father's manner, " remember
how cood he has been to us.
Don't let us leave the poor young man
alone in that great, dreary house. Can't
we have him here and nurse him ? "

"He is scarcely in a fit state to be
moved at present. Besides, your mother is

not a good one with illness in the house.
It fidgets her and puts her out."

* True, but I can't bear to think of his
having no one but servants to look after
him."

Her father smiled approval. She had
inherited his own warm heart.

You don't consider me of much good,
that's quite clear. Dot. Will you feel
satisfied when I tell you that it is my
intention to sit up with Mr. Jarrett tonight."


You ? Oh ! papa, that is kind of you.
But is he very bad, then ? "

I'm afraid so. He is in for an attack
of pleurisy, which threatens at any moment
to assume a dangerous nature. It seems
he went out hunting yesterday and got wet
to the skin."

"But he was here," she cried impulsively.
" He did not leave me till eleven
o'clock."

I don't know low that may be, but
the lad told me himself he had gone with
the hounds and caught a regular chill.
Dot," with a kindly look stealing over his
face, " we must pull him through if we
can."

' Oh ! yes, yes ; of course we must.
Only it all seems so sudden, and I can't
realize that he is ill. But you will want
a nurse. Why should not I be his nurse? "

I have already telegraphed for one."

May not I help ? I should like to if I
might." And she looked up with a pair of
pleading eyes.

"You shall later on. Dot ; but just now
I want you to stay at home and tell your
mother when she comes back where I am
spending the night, so that she need not be
under any alarm."

Two or three days passed away, and in
spite of every care and all conceivable
remedies, the patient showed no signs of

improvement. In vain did Doctor Lankester
prescribe opium and calomel and apply
mustard poultices ; they proved powerless
to subdue the disease. Another doctor
was called in, but he entirely approved of
the treatment already adopted, and beyond
one or two trifling susfiestions had
no advice to offer. Meantime Doctor
Lankester was beinnim? to entertain
grave fears for the result, and redoubled
his attentions. What puzzled and
distressed him most was the feeble vitality
possessed by this apparently strong, healthy
young man ; Bob seemed to have so little
recuperative power, and so small a share of
that physical clinging to life which is a
characteristic of nine human being's out often.
He could not help thinking that
something lay heavy on his mind.

Before long: Bob became delirious, and
then the good doctor guessed at the cause.
He was deeply touched when he learnt how
VOL. III. 48

great was the invalid's affection for his
(laughter. He would have welcomed him
as a son-in-law for his own sake, quite
apart from any worldly considerations,
having contracted a great liking, for the
young man. JN'ow he could only show his
good will by devoting all his spare hours
to him.

At the end of an anxious week, Dr. Lankester
almost gave up hopes of Bob's recovery.
True, the fever and pain had left
him, but he seemed frightfully weak, and
totally unable to rally. Unless some change
speedily took place, he foresaw that death
from exhaustion was imminent.

On the morning of the eighth day, as he
was sitting in the sick room, he was startled
by seeing Bob's eyes fixed earnestly upon
him, with an expression of fully restored
consciousness, which boded well.

"Doctor," he said feebly, "tell me the
truth ; I can bear it. Am  am I aoina" to

die ? " and his eyes looked larger and
solemn than ever.

Doctor Lankester made a vain effort
to speak, but a lump rose up in this throat,
and when he tried to give a consolatory-answer,
his voice failed him.

You need not trouble to tell me
what I want to know," continued Bob,
after a slight pause, during which he
had narrowly watched his companion's
countenance. " After all, it was a foolish
question."

There  there may be a chance yet,"
faltered the doctor in return. " You seem
better to-day."

Do I ? I'm sorry for that. The truth
is, I don't care to go on living."

But, my poor, dear friend, you are so
young to think. of death as a refuge from
trouble,"

That may be. But some young people
feel as old as the hills, and long for rest,

48*

and I am one of them. Can't you  can't
you understand ? "

"Yes," huskily, "I think so. I wish it
mi<dit all have been different."

"Thank you, doctor. Thank you for
saving those words. I always felt that I
had a friend in you. But don't be angry
with  with Dot," turning red as he pronounced
the girl's name. '* It was not her
fault"

No, I suppose not. These things can't
be helped."

And you see, if  if she had grown to
care for me, she would have been sorry
now, and as it is "  with a wan smile 
' nobody is much the worse. Dick will
step into my shoes when I am gone, and
the only person who will really feel my loss
deeply, will be my mother. Poor, dear old
mum ! I wish I could have seen her again
just to tell her not to mind."

Hush ! Bob, don't talk Hke that. You

mays pull through yet'' cried Dr. Lankester.
My belief is you could if you would. It's
your infernal indifference to life that keeps
you back in my opinion. If only you had
something to look forward to you would
pick up in no time."

I believe I should," answered the
patient with quiet conviction. " But that's
not likely."

Doctor Lankester's mouth was twitching.
His eyes were full of tears. He could no
longer hide his emotion, and rose as if to
leave.

Are you going ? " said Bob. " If so,
I wish you would do me a favour."

Of course I will. What is it ? "

I want you, please, to send to Stiffton
for a solicitor, and tell him to drive over
here at once."

Yes, Bob. Anything more ? "

The colour flamed up into the young
man's cheeks.

' Doctor," he said hesitatingly, " do you
do you think Dot wouhl come and seeme
? I should so like to speak to her once
more."

*' She shall come, but on one condition.
You must not excite or tire yourself."

Whereupon Doctor Lankester hurried
out oi the room, too much overcome to
continue the conversation. Any sudden
emotion might prove fatal to the patient in
his present condition ; on the other hand
if Dot could inspire in him a wish to live,
he was of opinion that Bob might still be
saved. Yet, how was he to induce his
daughter to transfer her affections from one
man to the other ? The task seemed
beyond his power, even were it right to
attempt it. The issue must lie with God.
Bob was closeted for a whole hour with
the lawyer, and when Doctor Lankester
re-entered the sick room, he was surprised
to find him considerably stronger and more

cheerful. Strange to say, the exertion
appeared to have done him good, and his
mind was evidently easier than it had been
for some time past.

Now, please, fetch Dot," he called out
impatiently, directly his medical adviser
approached.

Have you not done enough for today
? " rejoined that gentleman. " Don't
you think it will be wiser to wait till
tomorrow ? "

"Perhaps so, if I could make sure of
there being one for me. Oh ! Doctor
Lankester, if you knew how badly I want
to see her you would not refuse my
request."

His words contained a touching pathos,
which went straight to the cood doctor's
heart. He would have given half he
possessed to ensure for Bob not one but
many to-morrows ; the sick man was so
gentle and patient. He recognised with

such docility and submission that life was
but nature's plaything  a toy to be broken
up at any moment, and hurled into the unfathomable
abyss of eternity. He repined
not, neither did he bemoan his hard fate.
He was content to go  content to leave the
cold, pitiless earth, the winter snows and
summer sunshine, content even to part from
his beloved ; because she was not his
beloved, but another's.

Only a little common tragedy every day
played out to the bitter end by men and
women possessing loving and tenacious
hearts. As Dot had truly said, " Oh ! the
pity of it. The pity of it."

Quarter of an hour afterwards, the air
entered Bob's presence. He had altered so
much in these few days that she hardly
knew him, and the change shocked her to
such an extent that she was seized by a
fit of trembling. For his sake she had
determined to be brave and composed.

What were her bravery and composure
worth, since at one sight of the invalid
they vanished ?

The tears trickled down her cheeks,
and she bowed her head and sobbed
aloud.

Her emotion affected him deeply.

Dot," he said in a quivering voice,
don't cr}, dear. There's nothing to cry
about."

Oh ! Mr. Jarrett, I I can't help it. I
meant to behave well, indeed I did."

Call me Bob, will you ? I should like
to hear you call me by my Christian name
just for once, and," with a spasm of pain,
I don't think Will would be jealous."

flush ! " she cried, in an altered voice,
don't talk of Will."

'' I must. It is for that purpose I have
sent for you. The other day you told
me that you wanted live thousand
pounds "

"Oh, Mr. Jarrett  Bob, pray don't think
of my foolish words."

He raised himself on one elbow, and
looked at her.

"Dot," he said, "I hope you believe
that I love you well enough to serve
you."

Yes, yes, indeed. I don't deserve such
love as yours."

"If it pleases me to make you a gift of
five thousand pounds, and to render you
and Will happy, you won't refuse me, will
you ? It is the last favour I may ever
ask."

To his surprise, she flung herself down
by the bedside, and began sobbing as if
her heart would break.

"Dot ! " he said in alarm, " what have I
said ? What have I done ? "

Oh !  you  you are  so good. Your
generosity  touches m  me to the quick.
But  I  I  cannot take this money. Besides,"

she added despairingly, " it is of no
use to me now''

Why not ? Are you too proud to
accept even this small gift from me ? "

"Proud! No, but I am crushed and
miserable. Love, faith, honour, everything
seems unreal and a delusion, and the ideals
I have raised, the gods before whom have
bowed down and worshipped, prove brazen
images that topple down at a touch." And
her eyes shone fiercely.

Dot, what do you mean ? What are
you talking about ? "

You said you were my friend, Bob. 1
wonder whether you will understand me ?
I have suffered the pains of Purgatory for
eye whole days, and never spoken of them
to a soul. Now I feel as if I could keep
my sufferings to myself no longer, and must
talk to somebody. Five thousand pounds''
and she laughed hysterically. " You give
me five thousand pounds ! low noble, how

generous, how good ! But what is it for ?
what is it for ? "

To enable you to marry Will," he said
as steadily as he could, for the force of her
passion shook him.

She drew in her breath with a sharp,
hissing sound, and when she spoke next it
was in a cold, constrained voice.

Will will not marry me. He is married
already." . . .

At these words, the life blood seemed to
come tinoflinof and suroinc back through
Eobert Jarrett's veins. It was as if an
electric shock had been administered, which
diffusing vitality over his whole being,
snatched him from the very jaws of death.
Will married ! Dot free ! Good God ! how
different the future appeared all at once !
In the suddenness of his joy, he almost
forgot the girl's misery and despair. Then,
as he looked at her tear-stained face, a
mighty compassion made his heart swell.

How lie suffered, and he too had suffered,
and knew what unfortunate love meant.

He put out his hand in silent sympathy,
and she clasped it nervously, bowing down
her head, until he could feel the hot, salt
tears dropping one by one upon it.

Hot, dear," he said presently, " tell me
how this came about. You need not be
afraid of me."

She stooped her lips to the hand which
she held in her own, and kissed it with a
sudden impulse.

I loved him so," she said brokenly, ' I
thought him so good, and true, and noble.
1 would have stuck to him all mv
days, and not minded how poor he was, or
or what I did for him. And now it
seems as if it were n  not Will I had cared
for all these years, but some poor, contemptible
thing who w  when he got
we.Sivy of my blind adoration had not even
the courage to tell me so. But that is the

way with we poor foolish women. We
put our lovers up on such high pedestals,
that they come tumbling down with a
crash, and shatter our weak hearts to
pieces.

He let her ramble on as she liked,
knowing; that before long; she would tell
him all. He saw her smarting under the
first cruel pains of disillusion, of wounded
pride and outraged affection. It was only
natural that she should pour forth her
piteous tale incoherently, and he lay back
on his pillow, uttering a soft word of sympathy
now and again, and trying to prevent
the mad joy that possessed him from becoming
too apparent. He felt that it was
indecent  nay, selfish, yet would he have
been mortal had not his brain reeled with
intoxication at the thought that, should
God spare his life, he might now in Dot ?
Dot, whose sweet feminine disposition
revealed itself in every word !

This was the sum and substance of her
tale.

For months past Will's letters had grown
rarer and shorter. The girl treasured
them up, and never wearied of making-fresh
excuses for the writer, though her
woman's instinct told her that his love was
no longer the same as formerly. Time and
distance had cooled its ardour in a marked
deoTce. But she struocled against the

O (Do o

conviction, as would do any tender trusting
girl in her place, and flew to meet him at
the railway station, full of fluttering hope
and sweet forgiveness. At the first touch
of his lips she felt that some subtle alteration
had taken place, that, in short, an
estrangement, though none of her making,
divided them. He had hinted at confidences,
at news which it was imperative
to break, and yet maintained a torturing
reserve. His talk was chiefly about the
new practice, and how it was to be acquired,

and he succeeded in impressing Dot
with a notion that it was her duty to find
the requisite five thousand pounds, and if
she failed in coins so, the engagement
between them must be considered at an
end.

Will said he should find the money if
I didn't," sobbed poor Dot, through her
tears ; " that a man had no right to spoil
his whole career on account of an early
attachment, and hinted that there was
somebody else willing to marry him at a
moment's notice."

The brute ! " ejaculated Bob indignantly.
" Just fancy any man being
such a fool as to throw away a treasure
like YOU."

Dot sighed and wept.

I loved him so  I loved him so," she
repeated piteously. " But he was not what
I thought or he never could have acted ashe
did. If he had cared for me really, it

would have been impossible to him to
marry another woman, simply because she
had a few thousand pounds and I had not.
It is a terrible shock to discover the worthlessness
of a person you have looked up to
since your childhood. I feel as if I should
never recover from it. See, here is the
letter he sent me five days ago, every word
of which is branded on my memory in
characters of fire."

Bob, though tired, managed to read the
contents, which were as follows ;

Dear Little Dot,  When I met you at
the railway station you looked so pretty and
were evidently so glad to see me, that I could
not bring myself to tell you certain things
which you had a right to know. I am a
poor devil who has to gain his own living,
and who cannot afford to marry the girl of
his choice. Those five thousand pounds of
which we spoke were essential to my career.
VOL. III. 49

I knew that I could not look to find them
with you, and so  and so (you will think
me a beast, and God knows I feel like one)
I became engaged to a wealthy widow,
several years older than myself, who for
some rhyme or reason, appeared to have
taken a great fancy to me. When you get
this all will be over and I shall be married
to her. Dot, can you  will you forgive
rae ?  Yours in heart still, William
Barrington."

The cur ! " ejaculated Bob contemptuously.
" He is faithful, neither to the
woman he professes to love, nor to the one
he has basely married for her money.
Don't be angry with me, Dot, for saying
so, but I think you have had a lucky
escape."

She made no answer. Was it possible
that he was right ? She could not admit
the fact just at present, though her aching

heart cried out that it had been cruelly and
treacherously deceived.

This Will Barrington never could have
been worthy of you from the beginning,"
continued Bob. " A man capable of
writing such a letter as that is a poor,
mean-spirited hound."

If only he had trusted me," said Dot
bitterly, " and told me the truth, I think I
could have forgiven him everything, but
now  now," and her voice shook, '* I have
not only lost Will, but all my faith and
belief in human nature as well ; so much
has gone that never can come back."

Bob gave the hand he still held in his
own a gentle pressure.

My dear, my love," he said, " you have
indeed been cruelly treated, but don't fall
into the mistake of thinking:' that all men
are blackguards, and incapable of a true
affection. Dot, darling, if you would let
me try to restore your faith in man, I

49*

should very soon get well. It is you I
want, YOU, without whom life is unendurable."


The tears gushed afresh to her eyes.
What was this feeling stirring her heart ?
Had she turned traitor so soon . " Don't
ask anything of me now," she cried out in
alarm. "You must give me time  you
mu-t give me time."

A radiant smile lit up Bob's pale face.
Something in her tone and manner made
him hope. " I will be very, very patient,
and wait even as Jacob did for Earlier."

She drooped her head and did not
speak.

When Doctor Lankester returned from
his rounds some half-an-hour later, he
found Dot crying softly to herself and the
patient fast asleep. He felt his pulse and
turned to the girl with a look of inquiry.

"Why, Dot!" he exclaimed, "what
treatment have you been pursuing ?

Eobert Jarrett is a different man already.
He has managed to turn the corner and
wil live."

She glanced up at her father ; then
turned her blushing face away.

How could she speak to him of the
strange revolution going on within her
bosom ? How tell him that a new love
was springing up from the very ashes of
the old ?

But perhaps Dr. Lankester understood
without being told.

mm

Conclusion.

From that day Bob mended rapidly. He
had something to hope for now  a new
object in life. Nevertheless two months
went by before he regained his usual
health, and then Doctor Lankester strongly
advised his leaving England whilst the cold
spring winds Lasted. After much conversation,
it was ultimately settled between this
pair of friends that Bob should return to
Australia, in order to wind up his affairs
there, and escort his mother and sisters to
their new home. But before going on so
long a journey, he felt he must speak to
Dot ; she had been very shy and quiet of
late, and yet the small germ of hope that

had been planted in this heart whilst he lay
so ill, had gone on growing ever since.

About a fortnight prior to his departure,
he sought her out.

Dot," he said, " I am going away."

Yes," she answered in faltering tones,
I know that."

Have you nothing to say to me before
Heave?"

"What can I say ?" she demanded with
evident embarrassment.

You told me once that  that I must
give you time. I have tried and am trying
very hard still to be patient ; but Dot,
dear, if you could speak one little word
before I leave England, or give me the
least encouragement, you don't know how
happy it would make me."

She was trembling all over.

What  what  do you want  "

He advanced a step nearer, and held out
his arms with infinite yearning.

' I want you to tell me truly, if you
think you can ever get to care for me a
little bit ? I don't mean just yet. I have
no right to expect that ; but after a while
even a long while if you like it best  is
there any chance of my being able to win

you ? "

He stopped abruptly, and for a few
seconds she maintained absolute silence.

Then she becfan twitching at the corner
of her pocket-handkerchief, and at last ina
very subdued way, as if heartily ashamed
of herself, said almost in audibly, " I don't
know what you will say to me. You will
think me a most horribly capricious,
changeable person, in short no better thana
weathercock, but  but "

' But what, Dot ? For God's sake speak
out, and let me know the worst."

The small, sweet face broke up into
smiles, a dear little dimple showed on the
rounded chin, and the clear, frank eyes

looked straight into his, with an expression
which made his heart beat fast. " You
have won me already. I care for you a
very great deal as it is."

Here was an astounding discovery. Bob
could hardly believe his senses.

And Will ? " he cried sceptically, " what
about him ? "

The colour flew to her cheeks, dying
them a vivid crimson. He meant no
reproach to her constancy, but she construed
it as one.

I knew you would think poorly of me,"
she resumed humbly and apologetically.
"I think poorly of myself, and often
wonder if it is I  /, Dot Lankester, who
have changed so much in such a short
space of time. You have a perfect right
to doubt the sincerity of my affection. Appearances
are all against me. Perhaps
some girls can continue to care for a man
they no longer respect and esteem. I

could not. It was not the actual Will
Barrington I loved, but an ideal raised by
my imagination. I see it now, though at
the time I suffered tortures. Bob, I am not
really changeable and inconstant, though
probably you believe so, and if, in spite of
the past, you care to make me your wife,
I will do my best that you shall not

rei2:ret it.

>J

Bob was wild with delight. In the first
eustace of his love, he vowed he would put
off going to Australia, and spend the
summer at Straighten Court. But Mrs.
Lankester suggested a plan which positively
fired this brain. " Why not," she
said, " get married quietly, and take Dot
out with you, as a surprise to your mother
and sisters ? There's not the least reason
for any delay." The good lady went on the
principle of striking when the iron is hot.

Bob hailed this idea rapturously. Of
course. Dot said No, when it was first

mooted to her, and, equally, of course, the
ardour of her lover and the united wishes
of her parents succeeded in removing her
objections. " Why not ? Why shouldn't
she be happy, and see a little of the world
when she got a chance ? She found it impossible
to answer that question, or to
resist the pressure put upon her.

So they were married without  any fuss
or ceremony, and a few days afterwards,
started off for Australia on their honeymoon.
Of their various adventures en route
it is unnecessary to speak. Suffice it
that Dot completely won the hearts of
her new relations, and after a delightful
stay in Bob's old home, the whole party,
with the exception of Dick, who was comfortably
installed in the farm, returned to
Straighten! Court.

Before people had fairly got over the
astonishment occasioned by Mr. Jarrett's
wedding, there came another which surprised

them still more. Lord Littelbrane
conducted Lady De Fochsey to the hymeneal
altar, thus administering a deathblow
to the already disorganised Mutual
Adorationites. Shortly after this event, his
lordship was so shocked by the behaviour
of some of his satellites, who actually left
their cards on Mrs. Jarre tt, and vowed she
was a very pretty, charming woman, that
he resigned the mastership of the Morbey
Anstead hounds in disgust. But he was
still more annoyed when Bob took them,
and by the end of his first season effected
a complete revolution in the manners and
customs of the Hunt. The new master soon
became exceedingly popular with all classes,
encouraged the presence of strangers, was
civil and pleasant to everybody, and quite
put Lord Littelbrane's nose out of joint.

But that unfortunate nobleman had
other causes of dissatisfaction. As the
years rolled on, he became a thoroughly

unhappy, dissatisfied and henpecked man,
who hated and feared his wife, without
daring to five vent to his sentiments in
her presence. He had indeed made an
unlucky venture, for sad to say. Lady
Liltelbrane disappointed expectation ; no
son and heir appeared to continue the
aristocratic race, and his theories of selection
turned out no better than theories
generally do.

By some strange, horrible and capricious
freak of Nature, the long thought of and
deeply pondered combination of beauty
and birth, health and rank, youth and
talent, failed to produce the desired results.
No little sweet, shrill voices sounded in
the Littelbrane apartments, no childish feet
could be heard pattering down the long
corridors.

Year after year his lordship's hopes
faded away, and the Castle became a scene
of many marital squabbles. 

For Lady Littelbrane did not improve with
age. She grew sharper of tongue, shorter of
temper, more restless, frivolous and vain.
She filled the house with fast young men,
mostly of the parasitic order, and carried
on bare-faced flirtations with them under
the very nose of her unhappy lord, whose
notions of social decency were terribly
shocked by such conduct. But it was
useless expressing disapproval. His wife
could master him, and knew it ; so that he
got very little domestic peace.

His chief pleasure consisted in creeping
out to dine with old General Prosiebov
whilst she was entertaining some of her
gay acquaintances at home.

Sad to relate, that staunch Warrior had
made friends with the Mammon of unrighteousness,
although after a bottle of
wine he would still converse fluently about
the departed glory of the Mutual .


For their sun was on the wane. The
M.A.'s, indeed, almost ceased to exist. The
majority had gone over to the enemy, and
pretty Mrs. Eobert Jarrett made many converts
amongst their ranks. Her kindliness,
cheeriness and sweet simplicity were hard to
resist. Even the ladies, who at first turned
up their noses at Dot, as " a little country
doctor's daughter," were forced in time to
admit that she was " quite a nice, refined
and altogether unobjectionable person."

And Bob ? Our honest, out-spoken,
manly, rough Australian of the big heart
and unpolished manners ?

It may please some to hear that he was
very happy with this little wife, and that
they both considered their good fortune
should make them extra tender to others,
less lucky than themselves.

There is not such another pair of matchmakers
in the county.

What between looking after his estate,

his hounds and his children, Bob has plenty
of good honest employment, which saves
him from sinking down into a mere selfish
and luxurious Sybarite, intent upon
nothing but gratifying his own wants and
wishes.

Possibly, the sharp lesson he received
from a small section of English gentlemen
on his first arrival in England, though not
pleasant at the time, had a salutary effect,
and taught him that even in the mother
country there are a good many things net
worthy of imitation. He may have learnt
that to be kind and charitable, unselfish
and unaffected, make a man a finer gentleman
than possessing smart clothes, having a

bitter tongue, and an inordinate opinion of
I I I.

