CHAPTER I.

AN IRON LAND.

Wilder regions there are few to be found,
even in the wildest west of Ireland, than that
portion of north Clare known to its inhabitants
as " The Burren." Seen from the
Atlantic, which washes its western base, it
presents to the eye a succession of low hills,
singularly grey in tone,  deepening often,
towards evening, into violet or dull reddish
plum colour  sometimes, after sunset, to a
pale ghostly iridescence. They are quite low
these hills  not above a thousand feet at
VOL. i. a

their highest point, and for the most part
considerably less. Hills of this height, whatever
their other merits, seldom attain to the
distinction of being spoken of as " grand."
Their character is essentially " mutton suggesting."
You picture them dotted over
with flocks of sheep, which nibble the short
sweet grass, and frisk in their idle youth
over the little declivities. If here and there a
rib or so of rock protrudes, they merely seem
to be foils to the general smoothness. But
these Burren hills are literally not clothed at
all. They are startlingly, I may say scandalously,
naked. From their base up to the
battered turret of rock which serves as a
summit, not a patch, not a streak, not an
indication even, of green is often to be
found in the whole extent. On others a
thin sprinkling of grass struggles upward fora
few hundred feet, and in valleys and hollows,
where the washings of the rocks have
accumulated, a grass grows, famous all over
cattle-feeding Ireland for its powers of fattening.
So, too, in the long vertical rifts or

fissures which everywhere cross and recross
its surface, maiden-hair ferns and small 
flowers unfurl, out of reach of
the cruel blasts. These do not, however,
affect the general impression, which is that
of nakedness personified  not comparative,
but absolute. The rocks are not scattered
over the surface, as in other stony tracts, but
the whole surface is rock. They are not
hills, in fact, but skeletons  rain-worn, timeworn,
wind worn,  starvation made visible,
and embodied in a landscape.

And these strange little hills have had an
equally strange history. They were the last
home and the last standing-ground of a race
whose very names have become a matter of
more or less ingenious guess-work. Cormorant
? Firbolgs ? Tuatha da Canaan ? Who
were they, and what were they ? We know
nothing, and apparently are not destined to
know anything. They came  we know not
whence, and they vanished  to all appearance
into the Atlantic; pushed westward,
like the Norwegian lemming, until, like that

most unaccountable of little animals, they,
too, sprang into the waves and were lost.
Little change has taken place in the aspect
of the region since those unknown races passed
away. Their great stone-duns are even
still in many places the largest buildings to
be seen,  the little oratories and churches
which succeeded them having become in their
turn, with hardly an exception, ruins like
themselves, their very sites forgotten, melted
into the surrounding stoniness. The Burren
is not  in all probability never will be 
a tourist-haunt, but for the few who know
it, it has a place apart, a distinct personality
 strange, remote, indescribable. Everything
that the eye rests on tells us that
we are on one of the last standpoints of an
old world, worn-out with its own profusion,
and reduced here to the barest elements.
Mother Earth, once young, buxom, frolicsome,
is here a wrinkled woman, sitting
alone in the evening of her days, and looking
with melancholy eyes at the sunset.
The valley of Gortnacoppin is a sort of

embodiment of the Burren. Standing in it
you might fairly believe yourself in the
heart of some alpine region, high above the
haunts of men, where only the eagle or the
marmot make their homes. All the suggestions
are alpine, some of them almost arctic.
The white stream cutting its way through
the heaped-up drift ; the water churning and
frothing hither and thither in its impatience,
and leaving a white deposit upon all the reeds
and stones ; the pallid greyish-green vegetation,
with here and there a bit of dazzling
red or orange ; the chips and flakes of rock
which lie strewn about ; the larger stones and
boulders toppled down from the cliff above,
and lying heaped one over the other in the
bed of the stream,  many of the latter, you
may perceive, have not long fallen, for their
edges are still weathered. Here and there
over the top and sides of the drift a little thin
grass has spread itself, through which trenches
have been torn, showing the earth and stones
below. Truly a grim scene!  suggestive of
nothing so much as one of those ugly little

early German prints, where every stick and
stone seems to be grimacing with unpleasant
intention. Only look hard enough at any
of the rocks, and you will assuredly see a
gnome appear !

Towards the bottom, where it approaches
the sea, this valley, however, expands, and
becomes an irregular lake-like circle, mapped
out into small fields, separated from one
another by tottering lace-work walls. After
following the downward course of the upper
valley, you would have been surprised at the
sudden fertility of this little space, the greenness
of the grass, the promising look of the
small crops of bottle-green potatoes. If
something of a geologist, however, you would
have suspected that the mass of detritus,
borne down from the hills, and spread abroad
here at their feet, had something to say to
that satisfactory result.

Between five and six years ago the greater
part of this little fertile oasis was rented by
Horatio, or, as he was less classically called
by his neighbours, Hurrish O'Brien, one of

the countless O'Briens of Clare. His cabin
a rather large one, built of stone and
thatched  stood upon the summit of a little
ridge, conspicuous, like a small fly upon a
large window-pane, in the absence of any-other
building ; rendered still more so by a
good-sized ash-tree, which stood upon the
ridge beside it  a noticeable distinction in
so leafless a district.

It was a warm morning late in May, and
even the stony Burren had begun to feel a
touch of spring, its ferns and little delicate-recalled
blossoms to reach out inquiring heads
over their stony prisons. Hurrish had just
returned to breakfast. He had been down
early to the sea, to set some fishing-lines  for,
like most of the inhabitants of that amphibious
part of the island, he was part
farmer and part fisherman,  perhaps it would
be more accurate in his case to say three-parts
farmer to one-part fisherman, the latter
vocation being, in fact, rather a matter of
entertainment " than profit.

The door of the cabin was open, and the

window unsheltered (the latter for an excellent
reason, there were no shutters), yet the
cabin itself was lit by its fire. The light,
spreading from the blazing turf, broke in red
flakes upon the bare rafters of the roof, upon
the roughly plastered walls, upon a quantity
of highly coloured pious prints upon the
walls, upon others of a less pious character
pinned beside them, upon a rough white
terrier, two solemn black pigs, and three
children scattered over the mud floor, upon
an omnium gathered of tags and rags, stray
fragments of furniture, tools, clothing, straw,
bedding, sacks, heaps of potatoes,  an indescribable
and incalculable collection of long
accumulated rubbish, huddled, in more or less
picturesque confusion, one on top of another
the sort of picturesqueness which fastidious
people prefer in its painted rather than
in its actual form !

Hurrish sat upon a low "creepy" stool,
with a huge mug of stir about (known to the
ignorant as porridge) upon his knees, which
he was shovelling down his throat by the aid

of a large iron spoon. A broad-shouldered,
loose-limbed, genial-faced giant was Hurrish,
such as these western Irish counties occasionally
breed. Irish in every feature, look, and
gesture, there was yet a smack of something
foreign about him, to be accounted for possibly
by that oft-quoted admixture of Spanish
blood, the result of bygone centuries of more
or less continuous intercourse. His hair was
black as a cormorant's wing, and curly under
the old felt hat, half of whose brim had vanished
in some distant engagement ; his beard
was curly too, and black, yet his eyes were
grey, his skin evidently originally fair, and
his expression open, good-humoured, irresolute,
with a spice of native fun and jollity
about it. Despite the jollity which was its
prevailing expression, he did not seem to be
altogether a contented giant. There were
lines of perplexity and disturbance here and
there discernible. Yet Hurrish O'Brien was
a well-to-do man. He had a good stock of
cows and calves ; he held his farm on a
moderate rental ; his wife had brought him

fifty gold sovereigns tied up in a pocket-handkerchief;
his children were strong and
healthy ; and he was regarded by his neighbours
generally as one of the "warmest"
men between Blackhead and the mouth of
the Shannon.

Opposite, upon another low creepy-stool,
sat his mother, Bridget O'Brien, engaged
in stirring a steaming black pot  an employment
which would have given a sensitive
looker-on a delightful thrill, so appropriate
was the operation to the operator. In
Bridget O'Brien the Southern type was also
strongly visible. Women like her  as gaunt,
as wrinkled, as black-browed, as witch-like 
may be seen seated upon thousands of doorsteps
all over the Spanish peninsula. It is
not a very comfortable type, one would think,
for everyday domestic use ; too suggestive of
an elderly bird of prey  a vulture, old, yet
with claws .ever upon the watch to tear, and
a beak which yearns to plunge itself into
the still palpitating flesh. Her eyes were
black  a wicked black  and bright still

amid the multiplicity of wrinkles which surrounded
them, as cracks a half-dried pool.
Her hair, too, was dark, and hung in heavy
hanks about her forehead, reaching nearly
to the grizzled eyebrows, projecting like un-dipped
eaves over her eyes.

Bridget O'Brien was an ardent patriot !
The latest tide of revolutionary sentiment
had begun to spread its waves even to the
heart of remotest Burren, and she was the
chief recipient of it in the O'Brien household.
It was she who knew when, where, how, and
why the latest agrarian outrage had been
committed, and was the first to raise the war-cry
of triumph and exultation upon these
joyful occasions. Not that the rest of the
family were backward in their degree. Hurried
had called himself a Fenian almost ever
since he could remember, and nothing but
his distance from the seat of war had prevented
him from striking a blow when that
ill-starred apology for a rebellion came to
its final and melancholy close. Animosity
against England was a creed with him, a sort

of shibboleth  something like the middle-class
English hatred of France some three-quarters
of a century ago. His belief in its wickedness
and atrocities was a belief that knew
absolutely no misgivings. Had he been assured
that, like Herod of old, an order had
just been issued by its Government for all
infants under two years of age to be
slaughtered, I doubt if it would have struck
him as at all incredible, or even out of character
with what he supposed to be the normal
nature of its proceedings.

Hurrish's patriotic potations, however, were
mild and diluted compared with those quaffed
to the very dregs by his mother. He was
not a man easily roused to bitterness, and
would hardly, I think, have cared to kill
even an Englishman, unless some very good
purpose could have been served by so doing.
When Bridget brought back tales of vengeance,
executed upon the latest enemies of
their country, he listened, but rarely found
himself warmed to the point of emulation ;
the details of those gallant achievements

being apt, in fact, to have rather a chilling
and discouraging effect upon his imagination.
What he enjoyed was what may be called
the frivolous side of patriotism,  the mere
noise, the crowd, the excitement, the waving
flags, the new tin-pikes, the thrilling, delightful,
inexhaustible oratory of his chosen
leaders. All this was meat, drink, and
clothing to him, and he would have walked
thirty miles any day of his life to enjoy it.
On the other hand, the detailed projects of
vengeance were apt to pass over his head.
He admitted their necessity, but blinked the
details. When Ned Clancy, for instance,
with his wife and four small children, were
turned out of their cabin in the dead of a
January night, because Clancy had taken
Lynch's farm, contrary to well known if unwritten
local laws, Hurrish had been disposed
to feel sorry for the more juvenile of the
criminals. Not so his mother. "What ailed
he to be pitying' of thin? wasn't it known
they wouldn't have been served so if they
hadn't been desarvin' ? " that thoroughgoing

woman asked fiercely. Hideous prints, of still
more hideous significance, disfigured a considerable
portion of the cabin walls. There
was one cheerful design in particular, representing
the roasting alive of men in swallow-tail
coats, tall hats, and white neck-cloths,
presumably landlords and their myrmidons.
The intention was allegorical probably, but
to Bridget it was literal enough, and it was
upon such pabulum she feasted her eyes withall
the relish of a petticoated vampire.

Poor little Alley Sheehan, Hurrish's niece
by marriage, could not so much as bear to
look at the side of the wall where these
prints hung, and averted her eyes whenever
she happened to approach them. They made
her feel cold and sick. She was too much
afraid of old Bridget, however, to show this
repugnance openly, for Bridget was a domestic
despot, and not by any means one of
the benevolent variety. There was no blood
tie between them, either, to soften the yoke.
When Alley's mother died, Hurrish and his
wife had taken her to live with them out of

sheer charity and kindness of heart. When
poor Mary O'Brien in her turn died, old
Bridget would willingly have turned Alley
out upon the cold high-road to beg. There
were points, however, where Hurrish, yielding
as he was, could hold his own, and this
was one of them. He had a very tender
spot in his heart for little Alley, whose great
grey eyes it was hard to meet without softening.
They were wonderful eyes, such as
are only to be seen in their perfection west
of the Shannon,  violet grey, with lashes
which fell in a straight black drift upon the
cheek below,  eyes with a rippling light and
shade in the irises, such as streams show
when flowing clear over a pebbly bottom.
The face, too, which went with them, suited
the eyes, which is by no means invariably
the case, more especially in Ireland.

For all her eyes, Alley counted for very
little in the estimation of her contemporaries.
The average young Irish male is not perhaps
a particularly discriminating animal, and the
finer points are apt to be undiscernible by

him. Hers was the sort of beauty which
needs indeed some eye-culture to appreciate,
a beauty which clings with peculiar tenacity
to the inward vision after the outward presentment
has faded, which no rags, no dirt,
no circumstances, however repellent, avail to
spoil  nay, which seem to bloom the brighter
for such accessories, as the peculiar blue of a
speedwell shines best on that discarded heap
of refuse where we grudge yet delight to see
it. There was a touch of ascetic dreaminess
about her which suited her stony environment,
and remotely suggested the cloister  a sort
of nun-like fragility and separateness. Yet
Alley was not really delicate. She could
carry her creel of turf or her can of buttermilk
as long and as lightly as any girl
in the Burren. Her small shapely brown
feet could tramp unwarily a long summer's
day over the stones. Those beautiful pathetic
eyes of hers had never known the shelter of
a hat or a bonnet in all their clays. Strange
flower of humanity, a very young girl's
beauty ! Springing, we hardly know whence ;

dropped often where it seems least to tell ;
with something pathetic about it always,
and most of all where so few years seem
bound, as in a case like this, to bring it to
an end.

The party in the cabin had been silent
while the work of breakfast went steadily
on. A ray of sunshine  the pallid ineffectual
sunshine of the far, far west  was
making its way across the floor, and disputing
the ground with the paling light
from the turf. Through the open doorway
they could see the little hollow below, looking
like a green saucer upon a grey floor.
The drills of potatoes were appearing in dark-green
jagged rows between the boulders, andover
the grey shoulder of the next ridge the
long heave of the Atlantic could be heard
rising and falling in a slow harmonious
cadence.

Alley, with an iron spoon in her hand,
was feeding the youngest child, a rosy creature
of three, who sat plump upon the
ground, its fat bare feet and legs out-vol.

I. B

stretched, and its round red mouth agape,
like a young hedge-sparrow, for the mouthful
of stir about. The other two children
had finished their breakfast, and were rolling
about the floor trying to induce Lep,  short
for Leprehaun,  Hurrish's yellow and white
terrier, to join them  who, however, sat stiff
and erect, his eyes intently fixed upon his
master, his ugly, honest, mongrel face irradiated
with patient adoration. It is rather
rare to see any strong symptoms of mutual
regard between an Irish peasant and his
dog  such as, for instance, links the Scotch
shepherd to his collie. The dogs have to
take their chance with the pigs, children,
and poultry. They have not the financial
value, and therefore dignity, of the first-named,
nor the natural claims of the second,
neither, again, has kindly nature endowed
them with the same convenient capacity for
escaping sticks, heels, and other weapons of
offence that it has bestowed upon the last.
They receive food when there is plenty
going ; when times are short they are

kicked out to seek or steal their dinners
as they can. Hurrish, however, was an
exception, and his ragged Lep loved him
with as deep and adoring a love as ever
tender-hearted cur lavished upon indifferent
man.

The stillness outside was wonderful, such
stillness as could only exist in so depopulated
a region  a region where there were no
fields to plough, few seeds to be sown, no
carriages to drive, and hardly any roads to
drive them on ; nothing but sea, sky, rocks,
cloud,  a stillness that was like death, broken
only by the larks, which wheeled and circled
overhead, pouring out their heavenly notes
over those grey unfriendly rocks in a melodious
and interminable cataract.

All at once this deathlike silence was
violently broken. A shrill cry  the cry of
a woman  rang out across the stony stillness,
and with one accord every one, even
the dog and the children, sprang up and ran
to the door. Up the stony slope, at a pace
only possible to one accustomed from childhood

to that rugged fragment of earth's
surface, came a girl. After her in full pursuit
followed a man  unwieldy, red-faced,
heavy-jawed, brutal  a sort of human orang-outang
or Caliban, whose lumbering action
and coarse gesture had something grotesque
and even repulsive about them, as it were
a parody or perversion of humanity.

Hurrish ran hastily down the slope and
met the girl, who clutched frantically at his
arm, turning round as she did so to look
back at her pursuer, who on his side stopped
short upon the platform of rock which he
had reached, and remained there bellowing
forth indistinct curses and half inarticulate
threats of vengeance. Then, like some baffled
beast of prey, he turned, and strode sulkily
back over the narrow rifts of rocks, his brutish
figure  reflected in all its uncouthness upon
the wet surfaces as upon a sheet of dulled ice
disappearing a minute later over the next
perpendicular descent.

The other two returned to the cabin, where
the rest of the party had remained in an

excited group around the door. Entering,
the girl  a handsome florid creature of twenty
or thereabouts  flung herself down with an
air of exhaustion upon a stool. It was evident,
however, in spite of her first words,
that she was not quite so much frightened
as she pretended to be.

'Tis scared I am half to death ! " she
declared, pantingly. " Alley, darling, you're
whiter nor the driven snow ! Bad luck to
that baste for scaring' yis. 'Twas drunk he was
mad drunk an' quarrelsome. I was coming
round the corner of Gortnacoppin, thinking'
of nothing tall, when all at onset he lep at
me from behind of th' ould chapel place, an'
swore right or wrong to kiss me  the on-decent
sluggard ! I lit out one screech an'
run, and he after me over the racks. Truth,
I thought onset I was catched, but he was too
drunk to go sticky, thanks be to God, and I
heard him stumbling' about like a sale behind
ov me. 'Tis a mighty quare way to be
courting' a girl  scaring' her out ov her raison
! " she added, meditatively. " I'll thank

ye kindly, Mrs O'Brien, for a sup ov cow's
milk. 'Tis parched I am wit the drought."

Sal Connor was the beauty of Tubbamina,
and its heiress too. Her father was not long
dead, and she, singular to relate, had been
his only child. To her belonged the cabin in
which she and her mother then lived. Hers
were the two fine cows tethered beside it ;
hers the goats and sheep which fed on the
short sweet grass sprouting between the rocks.
Needless to say she had had her choice of
suitors, the unattractive Caliban who had just
been pursuing her being one of them, and
the most persevering of the band. By a
piece of contrariety, Sal Connor, however,
had fixed her heart upon Hurrish O'Brien,
who upon his side cared not at all for
her. Though a widower, and therefore at a
disadvantage, he was the biggest, the strongest,
the best-looking, and the best-tempered
man in the whole neighbourhood of Tubba-
mina, and ever since poor Mary O'Brien's
death, nearly three years before, Sal had
made up her mind to fill that vacant place

a resolve which she by no means confined
to her own maidenly bosom. She was
a good-hearted girl, and if she married Hurried,
had every intention of making him the
best of wives  as wifehood is understood
in the west of Ireland. She would certainly
not have felt it incumbent upon her to
mend his clothes, or keep his cabin in order ;
neither would she have desired that the children
should learn the use of soap, or go to
school, with the exception, that is, of the
elder girls, for whom she would have scraped
together money enough to send to a convent,
where they might learn to play the pianoforte,
make lead-pencil drawings of surpassing
thinness, perhaps even acquire the
French language, as spoken at Buttevant
or Ahascragh,  generally, in short, pick up
such accomplishments as were likely to be of
most service to them in the sphere of life they
were destined to occupy.

Meantime that more advanced stage of the
seven ages of womanhood had not yet arrived,
and Sal Connor was in the earlier, provocative,

coquettish stage of the young hen-pheasant or
curassow, who is courted by half a dozen aspiring
males, only that whereas those ignorant
birds go arrayed for the most part in sober
greys and browns, leaving the more gorgeous
hues for their admirers, Sail delighted all Tub-lamina
and Gortnacoppin, too, by the splendours
of her shawls and petticoats  on Sunday
outshining even the painted images in
the chapel. Old Bridget favoured Sail, and
would willingly have seen her married to
Hurrish. The money was the main consideration,
of course ; but besides this, her own
influence with him, she was aware, had been
rather waning of late, and a daughter-in-law,
whom she could easily, she flattered herself,
win over to her way of thinking, would bea
prime auxiliary in stirring up that sluggish
spirit to greater activity.

"An' what ailed that baste to run after
ye to-day, 'cushla ? " she inquired curiously.
Was it any think new, or just th' ould divining
? "

Och, I dunno ; 'tis jealous, I think, he is.

He can't 'bide for me coming' this way 'tall,
whatever the reason is ! " with a coy glance
under her eyelashes at Hurrish, who was
mixing a pot of tar with a bit of stick,
and, therefore, unfortunately unconscious of
the tender provocation.

"Bad ind to his soul,  he's the curse ov
the country ! " the old woman growled savagely.
"An if he doesn't be mending' his
manners, he'll be making' it too hot for him,
too, so he will  the bletherin' baste ! "

He's rich, they say," Sal said, in a tone
of extenuation. It is never well to run down
an admirer overmuch, even if you have no
immediate intention of accepting him.

Each ! Och, bead, if riches was all, 'tis
rich he is an' to spare ! Why, the whisky
alone he drinks wud float a ship, so 't nuda
ship of war ! Ould Mrs Connor  that's
Darby Connor's wide  felled me she seen a
man coming' up the car-thrace bryant his
house wit an ass, an' a barrel on the top
ov it wouldn't barely cum in at the door.
An' he outs himself and helps to rowl it in ;

an* never a drop to o'er a one, but sitting an'
swithin', an' a-making a baste ov himself, all
to himself  less maybe that brother of his
does be helping' him"  with a glance out of
her black eyes to where Alley was sitting a
little apart, with the youngest child on her
lap.

This roused Hurrish.

"Morry never drinks a drop, mother 
ye know that as well as myself," he said,
quietly.

"Truth, I know nothing 'bout it," she
answered, angrily.

Thin I do, an' I tell ye 'tis so. The two
is no more 'like nor a garden flower an' my
old blackthorn there. 'Tis the height ov
wonders to every soul in the world how they
comes to be brothers 'tall."

Och, yer allays mighty sot upon yer
Morry ! Wait till the brother does be a
cutting' of yer throat, an' him helping' him for
to do it ! Maybe ye won't think so mighty
much ov him thin ! "

To this rhetorical thrust Hurrish made no

reply, and a silence ensued of several minutes'
duration.

So the poor Maloneyss is out 't last ! "
Sal Connor observed, by way perhaps of
giving a new and more agreeable turn to the
conversation. " Poor Mrs Maloney ! decent
woman ! 'Tis a power of trouble she's had
first and last. An' who'll be takin' the
farm? 'Twucl be a hundred ov pities for that
gran' ground to go waste. 'Tis the slightest
grain', they say, in the Burren. 'Thud
be mighty convenient for yourself, Mr
O'Brien, wudn't it, now ? " she added, turning
to Hurrish. " So handy to your own ;
an' you an' the Meejor so friendly, more betoken
? "

This brought Bridget out once more on to
the war-path.

"Devil a one will take that farm, not if
it was the last bit ov grain' in all Island,
an' every baste in the world dying' for the
want ov a bite ! " she announced, bringing
her closed fist down upon the dresser with
a thump that made the crockery jingle.

Whoever goes in at Mick Maloney's door
comes out on't on his back, and rightly
served too, an' I'd say the same if it was
twenty sons ov me own was attimptin' todo
such a thing ! "

She looked round the cabin as if to challenge
contradiction, but no one responded.
Hurrish continued to mix his pot as if nothing
in the least affecting him had been said.
Like many mild men blessed with a turbulent
womankind, he had long learned to
regard these outbursts as part of the everyday
order of things, like the roaring of the
wind or the crumbling of the turf, and to pay
as little attention. He had no more idea of
taking the farm from which the Maloneyss
had just been evicted than he had of taking
Dublin Castle, and this his mother knew
quite as well as he did himself. If she liked,
therefore, to utter blood-curdling predictions
as to what she could, would, or might do in
the inconceivable event of his doing anything
of the sort, why, he was not the man to
grudge her so innocent an amusement.

"Well, I must be going," Sal Connor said
at last, rising and complacently shaking out
her skirts as she spoke. Although she had
only come, as had been seen, for a mere
morning call, her petticoat was a new purple
rep, edged with broad magenta braid, and
trimmed with three rows of canary-coloured
lace, over which she wore a new green calico
bodice.

"Tis 'feared I am to be going back
lone," she added coquettishly. " Maybe that
baste is waiting' for me still, an' the drink
not out ov him yit ! Alley, darling, you'll
cum wit me, won't you ? Each does, lovey,"
with a glance at some one who was not by
any means Alley.

Poor Alley turned quite pale.

Usa, don't ask me, Sail, I mustn't," she
said, clasping her hands appealingly. " He
run out at me once, an' I thought I'd die  I
did invade ! "

Gloria, did he want to be a-kissin' ov you
too ? " the other inquired, not without a touch
of disdain.

Alley turned a delicate rose-colour.

I dunno what he wanted, but he frighted
me sore. He's a wicked, bad man. He'd
destroy th' whole ov us out an' out,
av he had the chance, just for spite ov
Hurrish. Tis a fearful thing to have him
'bout the country. I'd leaver meet a mad
dog nor a bull any day."

"Truth an' he won't be 'bout it long, I tell
yis all that ! " Bridget said emphatically.
"There's buoys that, for the wink ov an eyelid,
wud put him out of that,  yis, an' glad,
an proud to do it too ; if there is sum
so mane-spirited they'd take treatment wud
intense a baby  an' un waned baby  an'
only say ' Thank ye ! ' " with a glance of fiery
disdain at her son.

Hurrish laughed.

'Tis an elegant Christsheen yer making'
me out, mother, anyhow ! " he said good-humouredly.


Christsheen ! " Bridget threw all the
power of her scorn into the second syllable.
Christian, invade ! Give me a little

spirit ! To be growed a man  strong, an'
tall, an' straight  the biggest man out an'
out in the country  able to destroy th'
whole of thin iv he'd a mind, an' never
to lift a hand,  no, nor th' half ov a hand !
Strike me dead this minute iv I wudn't
rather have a son like Sheeny Callaghan,
wit never a leg to put unci her him 'tall  so
I wud ! Strike me dead else ! "

Chapter II.

HURPJSH SUSPECTS THE UNSEEN POWERS.

In the end old Bridget herself escorted Sail
Connor back to her cottage, which was upon
the outskirts of Tubbamina, the village just
over the ridge of the hill, Hurrish excusing
himself on the score of having to see to his
boat, which he had left on the sands, and
which would certainly be washed away if he
delayed much longer. His fishing, as already
hinted, was rather an excuse. Now and
then, when he got a good haul, he would
make a little money by sending a donkey-load
to Lisdoonvarna, the water-cure place
six or eight miles away, but for the most
part it was more pleasure than profit. He
had a hankering for the sea, and was not

sorry to find an excuse for escaping his
mother's tongue and the humdrum monotony
of the farm, and for both these purposes the
boat was a good excuse.

He did not start, however, for some minutes
after his mother and Sal Connor had gone
down the slow incline, and were lost to sight
over the next grey ridge. Though he had
taken the former's threats lightly, they had
rather startled him. He had heard them frequently
before, it is true, but never expressed
quite so definitely. Mat Brady was his
enemy, declared and deadly ; still, enemy ashe
was, and brutal, dangerous bully and savage
as he was, Hurrish had no particular
desire to have him murdered, still less to
have his own mother mixed up in that informal
transaction.

Murder as a recognised social institution
had never somehow quite commended itself
either to his intelligence or his humanity !
Though he had openly and enthusiastically
joined himself to every association which had
even nominally the emancipation of Ireland

vol. i. c

for its aim, he had never allied or desired
to ally himself to any of those less avowed
societies with which Clare, like every other
part of Ireland, is honeycombed, and which
subsist upon murder, and upon murder only.
He had been elected to one of them, it is
true, in his absence, and had weakly refrained
from insisting upon his name being struck
off again. Through his mother, too, he was
better acquainted with the underground
doings of the neighbourhood than he by any
means ought to have been, but it was reluctantly,
and he struggled stoutly to shake
himself free from the participation, and to
defend, whenever it was possible, the victims
of it.

But if he disapproved, why not have
given notice to the police, and have had
the perpetrators brought to justice ? the
innocent reader will perhaps inquire. The
reader who asks that question must indeed
be very innocent, or very slightly acquainted
with those unseen springs which
make up by far the more important of our

inner machinery. The position of the informer
in Ireland, to begin with, is the
position of an outcast, cursed and abhorred
of all men, to be disposed of, so soon as safe
opportunity presents itself. It was not fear,
however, so much as other hindrances that
hampered Hurrish. Claims of all sorts  of
honour, of good fellowship, of pity  plucked
at him, now on this side and now on that,
as the demons in Holbein's print plucked at
Intra as he rode through the dark valley.
Hurrish was no Intra, yet there was
something tragic, as well as decidedly ridiculous,
in the acuteness of his dilemma. His
very good-nature and sociability were all
against him. For what, it may be asked, is
a good-natured and a naturally gregarious
man to do, when all the sociability of his
neighbourhood is concentrated around a single
focus, and that focus a criminal one ?

His own impulses were all of the old-fashioned,
easy-going, jovial kind. He hated
fighting  except, of course, the open and fisticuff
variety ; he hated dark deeds and dark

secrets, and everything that savoured of
unpleasantness and treachery. He would
have liked from year's end to year's end to
go on in the same genial friendly fashion,
the same happy-go-lucky indifference to the
future. Pity such natures when their lot
has been cast into the bitter yeast of a
social revolution ! They are the clay pots
amongst the iron ones, and the fate of the
clay pot is theirs.

He got up after a while, pushed away a
chicken which had perched itself meditatively
upon his foot, whistled to Lep, and started
towards the sea, leaving Alley Sheehan to
look after the house and mind the children.

His way led across about half a mile of
gradually descending ground, over a succession
of slabs of rock, many of them as much
as a dozen or more feet in diameter. In all
directions these slabs were divided and subdivided
by an endless multiplicity of narrow
fissures or crevasses, varying from a few
inches to a foot across, but reaching down
apparently to immeasurable depths. There

was something about it that might have
reminded a climber of a moderately level
glacier  the Mer-de-Glace above Chamounix,
for instance,  and like a glacier, the edges or
lips of these fissures were worn, channelled,
and smoothed away, presenting a curiously
molten effect, the result in this case of the
action of rain and running water upon the
soluble particles of limestone. Instead of
naked ice, these crevasses, however, were
crammed to the very brim with a green tide
of vegetation  ferns and mosses, hairbells,
saxifrages, silver silenus, and white mountain
dryad, red-petalled daisies, lifting sweet impertinent
faces out of their hollow prisons,
trailing sprays of clematis and honeysuckle
flinging their scent-laden treasures broadcast
across the scentless rocks  as if earth, defrauded
of her natural growths, had crowded
all possible accumulations into these receptacles
which had been torn so capriciously
out of her sides for their reception.

Hurrish strode on, stepping over the narrow
fissures, whose edges gave out a responsive

click to the contact of his boots  small
fragments of stone, detached from the edges,
falling with a metallic ring into the nearest
cleft. He was in a hurry, for he had really
left his boat too close to the edge of the
water, having expected to return much
sooner. At last he reached the top of the
cliff, and could see down into the little
horseshoe-shaped bay which served him fora
boat-house. All right, the boat was there !
and he was able, therefore, to pause for a
moment to look around him before beginning
the descent.

Picturesqueness as picturesqueness counted
probably little enough with Hurrish, yet
in another way he was more sensitive to
outward impressions than many a cultured
gentleman with a brain well stocked with
quotations. The roar of the sea, the wet-surface
rocks, the streaks of sunshine
dashed with rain, the wild west wind which
had travelled over so many miles of liquid
ridge and furrow,  all this was a sort of
natural fuel to his imagination, stirring it

unconsciously to sudden feats of activity.
His was the genuine Celtic temperament 
poetic, excitable, emotional, unreasoning.
Of the more brutal and cruel elements, which
too often, alas ! streak and disfigure that
strain, he had hardly a trace. He was kindly
to softness, and tender-hearted almost to
womanliness. Those schemes of personal
vengeance  dark, bloody, tiger-like  which,
century after century, have nourished the
sense of injury, while they soothed the
immediate lot of many a half-starved Celt,
were almost as foreign to him as that
ox-like indifference which enables men of
other races to submit to the dreariest of
daily drudgeries, without a thought or a
dream of escape. Hurrish had a vein of
poetic excitability which craved nourishment.
Temperaments which, under happier
circumstances, might very well have been
the homes of a genuine fount of poetry, will
often, for lack of better aliment, feed upon
the veriest garbage, and accept the most
worthless of sawdust-cakes for bread. The

magnificent promises, the fiery denunciations,
the windy turbid patriotism of his favourite
newspapers  by preference the contraband
ones  were such sawdust-cakes to him ; he
could stand and hear them read aloud by the
hour, without even requiring the additional
stimulus of whisky. He was not quite without
other imaginative provision, however. Like
many a letterpress Irish peasant, his mind was
stored with an endless stock of old songs and
ballads, the sonorous lilt of which has charms
even for those least in sympathy with them.
To-day, for instance, as he turned from the
cliff-edge and hurried down the narrow breakneck
path, Lep at his heels, the rapid movement,
the wind, the sudden vivifying touch
of spring  all excited him without his knowing
how or why, and he broke into a strain,
half-singing, half-shouting, 

Think av ould Brian,
War's mighty lion,

'Neath that banner 'twas that he smote the Dane !
The Northman an' Saxon,
Aft turned their backs on
Those who "

The strain stopped abruptly ! A huge piece
of rock came thundering down the side of the
cliff, only missing the singer by about half a
foot, plunging over the brim of the next
ridge, and falling with a tremendous splash,
splash, splash into the sea below ! A second
followed, and then a third. Then a train of
smaller ones, each as big as a child's head.

Lep gave a wild bound of dismay, and fled
down the path, his tail tucked tight between
his legs. Hurrish sprang nimbly aside ; then,
when the falling avalanche had ceased, he
turned, and, keeping as close as he could to
the edge of the cliff-wall, clambered hastily
up the track, his teeth set, and his soul on
fire for vengeance. Woe betide the man,
whoever he was, who had set those stones
rolling ! Like many a mild man, Hurrish,
with the hero of his song, could be a lion
when he was roused, and his blood was
thoroughly up now.

When he got to the top not a soul, however,
was to be seen ! not a trace or a symptom of
any human being. The bare cliff edge stood

bathed in light ; the little wind-beaten camomile
flowers turned up innocent dog-eared
faces to him ; the wild stony country on the
one side, the untravelled wastes of sea on the
other, seemed equally void of humanity. He
scratched his head, and looked round and
round, furious, yet without an object to vent
his wrath upon. A trying predicament truly
for an infuriated giant !

Where the rocks came from was at any
rate easily seen. Along a considerable distance
of one part of the top of the cliff
ran a sort of natural rampart, known to
geologists as a " block beach,"  proof of the
stupendous power of the waves which had
deposited them there during a long succession
of howling winters. Many of these
blocks were of enormous size, larger even
than those which had so nearly annihilated
Hurrish, and beyond this natural barrier,
a little way from the edge, stood a small
hath or dun, two-thirds of which had been
demolished.

Finding no clue to the phenomenon, he at

last slowly retraced his steps, looking back
from time to time in hopes of espying an antagonist,
his soul hot within him and longing
for revenge. At the very bottom of his anger
there was, however, an underlying touch of
mystery,  a suspicion of something not altogether
natural. The old demon-worship
dies hard in remote regions like the stonyhearted
Burren ; it forms so large and so
strong an element in the traditional inheritance
of the Celt, that it seems almost impossible
that it can ever be entirely extirpated.
Hurrish was not more superstitious than his
neighbours, yet he by no means felt sure that
what had just befallen him had not been the
work of some malevolent spirit or spirits.
What more likely than that an unseen something
had toppled those rocks down the cliff
for the amusement of seeing a man hop like a
hailstone in a shower, or, if he was in a specially
malignant mood, to crush him flat under
them like a beetle under a warming-pan ?
It was not such an uncommon occurrence !
At Ailleenahaseragh, only a few miles down

the coast, there was a hole in a rock that was
known to be permanently occupied by an evil
spirit. Fishermen had heard him picking
loose pieces off the rock at night, and throwing
them into the sea. Nay, an old woman,
who was passing the place late one evening
on her way home from a fair, had actually
seen something sitting upon the top, with
its legs crossed, a pipe in its mouth, and a
hump on its back. She would have taken
it, she admitted, for a pedlar wearing a pack,
but that, fortunately, just as she was getting
near she saw that there was a large hole  big
enough, she declared, to put a couple of
chickens through  in the middle of its back.
Now no respectable pedlar, it will be admitted,
has ever a hole of that kind through the
middle of his back ! It was one of the disadvantages
of that part of Clare, that it was
rather a favourite haunt of beings of this
kind. There was a lake only three miles
away which was haunted by the Each Liege,
or water-horse, a supernatural animal of
particularly unpleasant manners. A full account

of its appearance and behaviour was
written down from the report of an eye-witness,
and is still preserved for reference. It
is described as having " a black shining skin,"
a " switch tail without hair," and " a mule's
head, with fins like a haddock." Its habit
is to wait till some one passes close to its lair,
then to spout out an enormous quantity of
water from its mouth, and before he has
recovered the shock, it darts upon him, and
draws him into the lake, where it rarely
happens that even his bones are recovered
again. Hurrish's own father had had an adventure
with a monster almost more terrible.
He was fishing off the island of Ard-oiled,
which has always borne a bad reputation ever
since it gave the holy Saint Grormgal such an
amount of trouble. For during the time that
the saint was building his " hermitical retirement
" there, he was perpetually tormented
by devils in the shape of black coughs, with
red legs and bills  two very diabolical traits !
which coughs or devils, so soon as he
planted anything, pulled them out again

with their bills  a fact to verify which anyone
who doubts need only visit the island,
which will be found to be void of all cultivation
unto this day. Hurrish's father, I was
about to remark, was pulling up his lines,
for it was getting dark, when suddenly they
were almost pulled out of his hands by a
tremendous weight. He thought that it
must be a dozen fish on at least, but when
it got near the surface, he saw a blue mist
or jelly, with eyes all over it, and in the
middle of this jelly a pea-green face, covered
with huge warty knobs, and shiny yellow
arms and legs, which waved about in all
directions, and  what was naturally still
more startling  a large whisky-bottle sticking
out of a loose flap of skin about the middle
of its body. He had given himself up for
lost, but that, happily, he had had an uncle
who was learned in such matters, so that
he knew at once from his descriptions that
this could be no other than Gougalidimus,
king of oysters, who was known to frequent
these rocks. Accordingly, quick as thought,

he dropped a burning spark into the water
out of his pipe, which he was fortunately
smoking at the time, whereupon the creature
melted away immediately and vanished. For
fire is the one thing such supernatural beings
cannot endure, as all but the most ignorant
are, indeed, well aware.

With these occurrences fresh in his mind,
it is not to be wondered at that Hurrish felt
doubtful as to the real nature of the accident
which had befallen him, and that, in any
case, he felt that it was just as well to pocket
the insult and descend before worse happened.
He descended the cliff accordingly,
this time without any unpleasant accompaniments,
and gained the little strip of land, on
the very edge of which, half-surrounded by
water, his boat was lying. It was one of
the ordinary curates or coracles of the country,
consisting of a heavy framework of wood,
covered with the tarred canvas which has
replaced the traditional ox-hide. The canvas
was worn in several places  a serious matter
in a boat in which the smallest hole is sum-cent

to send you without warning to the
bottom. Hurrish had brought down his
pot of tar, also a bundle of fine twigs tied
together, which served as a brush, and accordingly
he now set to work at once to
patch up the places.

His excitement had by this time passed
away, and had taken his anger with it. Manor
goblin, whatever it was that had thrown
those stones, they had missed him, and therefore,
with the help of the saints, might
miss him again. By-and-by, as he warmed
to his work, he broke out into a new tune
this time a loftier and more heroic
strain : 

"lord Clare,' he said, 'y' have your wish, there are yer

Saxon foes ; '
The marshal almost smiled to see how furiously he goes.
How fierce a look thin exiles wear, were wont to be so gay;
The treasured wrongs of thirty years were in their haa-arts

to-day ;
Their priesthood hunted down like wolves, their country

overthrown ;
Each felt as if revenge for all "

There was another pause. The coracle required
turning. It was a job that generally

needed two men, for though light, these boats
were cumbersome to lift. Hurrish, however,
required no aid. Stooping, he embraced the
huge black thing  so like some ugly, uncouth
animal  in his arms, reared it on end
by main force, and propped it against a
low rock, in which position he could more
readily see what was amiss with the bottom.
This done, he finished his strain, 

was staked in him alone.
On Fontenoy ! on Fontenoy ! H-aaa-rk to the wild hurrah !
Divine ! Remember Limerick ! Wh-oooo-p ! Down wit
the Sasenagh ! "

VOL. I.

CHAPTER III.

THE UNSEEN POWERS STAND REVEALED.

What Fontenoy was beyond a fight of some
sort Hurrish had not a notion. He had not,
therefore, the satisfaction of knowing that it
really had been a recognised battle  a genuinely
respectable European victory,  and a
victory, too, due in great part to the prowess
of his home-exiled compatriots. It might
have been fought in Tierra del Fuego or
Nova Scotia, for anything he knew to the
contrary. That the Lord Clare who figured
in it had fought against England, that much,
indeed, was clear to him, and that probably
was all he cared to know.

Hurrish possessed an idiosyncrasy which
was a very serious scandal to his more

thorough-going friends and relatives. This
was a sort of sneaking regard, an acknowledged
kindliness with which in his heart
of hearts he regarded the " ould stock," 
the time-out-of-mind landlords, men as much
part of the country they lived in as its
rocks, rivers, magpies, or buttercups. For
the new-comer, the man of yesterday, of
the Encumbered Estates Court  every one
who could, rightly or wrongly, be ticketed
by the detested word " land-graver "  his
scorn was unmeasured, and his conscience
void of reproach. But for the " ould stock,"
the aboriginal landlord so to speak,  the
Fitzgerald, the O'Kellys, the Macmahons,
his own O'Briens of Clare  over these and
such as these his heart secretly yearned as a
brother over erring brothers. This general
sentiment was strengthened by a personal one,
for there was a member of this degenerate
race for whom Hurrish cherished a strong
feeling of personal regard, nay, affection, and
that one  crowning shame and scandal to
relate  was no other than his own landlord !

LIBRA

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

When Hurrish had been a lad of sixteen,
but as stout on his legs and as broad-chested
nearly in his ragged corduroy jacket ashe
was to-day, Mr O'Brien  the "Captain"
he was then called  used from time to
time to be at home on leave from his regiment,
and on these occasions used often
to send for his namesake  finding him
strong and reasonably intelligent  to carry
his game or his fishing - basket as the
case might be. The "Captin" and his
father were not always upon the best of
terms, and the regular gamekeeper, if such
a functionary existed, was rarely available.
Hurrish was the stanchest of henchmen,
and the most admiring. Did a salmon
stick  as salmon will stick  amongst the
roots and snarls at the bottom of the stream,
Hurrish s clothes were off in a minute, and
he would be in the water, no matter how
cold the weather or how swift the current.
Was a wild duck lost in the bushes,  Hurrish
would stay out all night, but he would find
it in the end. He possessed a strong native

fount of admiration, which craved something
to expend itself upon, and in those days the
Captin " supplied that need. He was the
idol and ideal of his henchman's youthful
admiration, and his feats of fishing and
shooting a source of as deep a pride as
though achieved by himself  rather considerably
more so. All this, of course, was
changed now ; nevertheless, an unacknowledged
remnant of his former devotion for
the " Captin " still lingered in Hurrish's frieze-covered
breast. His was a nature that did
not readily drop any habit of kindness it had
once formed. Perhaps, too, unconsciously
to himself, there was some clannish feeling
mingling with this regard, though it maybe
doubted whether he had ever heard the
word. Sentiments revert as well as features,
and his forebears had followed the " Captin 's "
forbears quite often enough and long enough
to have cut the sentiment deep into their
descendant's consciousness. His mother certainly
was guiltless of fostering any such
slavish or sycophantic notion ! In that

thorough-going woman's eyes, the best landlord
and the worst were exactly equal  as to
the inquisitors of old, petty distinctions like
virtue or vice counted nothing one way or
other in the case of a declared heretic.
Contrary to the practice of most Irish landlords,
Mr O'Brien had never employed an
agent, and his dealings with his tenants were,
in consequence, all direct and personal. This
in Hurrish's case had kept up the kindly
feeling, though where no such kindly feeling
existed, the dislike, which otherwise might
have been diluted by division, had become
concentrated and embittered. A man who
could get another to do an unpleasant office,
and yet persists in doing it himself, must
take the consequences, which are not likely
to be agreeable !

Meanwhile the beautiful morning was
clouding over, as is apt to be the case where
every bit of rising ground acts as a cloud detainer.
It had begun to rain, though as yet
slightly. The sea was moaning, and the tide
ran farther and farther up into the narrow

cove, threatening to leave no standing-room.
A sudden scud of wind blowing inshore was
cutting off the tops of the waves, and sending
the froth flying in ragged clots through the
air ; a couple of fishing-boats were making all
haste to win the little harbour before the gale
overtook them ; the very puffins and cormorants
were coming shorewards with wild discordant
cries, winged by the fury of the
squall. Suddenly the rain descended in a
perfect deluge, washing over the face of the
rocks in a white-edged torrent, and rushing
down to meet the incoming waves in a
hundred mimic rivulets.

Hurrish, however, went doggedly on with
his work. He had never had rheumatism,
and cared not a jot for the wet. If one left
off what one had in hand for rain in Clare,
one would rarely do anything there at all.

Lep was less philosophic. With a yelp full
of discomfort he ran up to his master, rubbing
his white shaggy head against his knee, as if
to entreat him to take shelter. Finding that
his appeal was disregarded, he, too, submitted

to the inevitable, declining to take refuge by
himself among the rocks as he might have
done, and sitting shivering on the soaking
sand, his white coat gradually turning to a
collection of ragged wisps of wool, as the
drenching water soaked it through and
through ; his brown eyes, ordinarily hidden
under their overhanging thatch, becoming
large and glittering, like some sort of gelatinous
sea organisms which the retreating
sea-weeds have left dry.

At length the tarring of the curagh was
finished, and Hurrish stood back a little way
to contemplate it. It looked more like some
strange antediluvian animal than ever  a seal
or walrus perhaps, of archaic type, left behind
in the march of improvement ! The shower
was beginning to wear away. There were already
clear bits in the middle of the clouds,
and away towards Ballyvaughan a ray of sunshine
broke in a pallid wistful gleam upon the
wet rocks.

Hurrish shook himself. Heavy as it had
been, the rain had not penetrated his thick

frieze clothes, and if the sun came out again
he should be dry in a trice. He put the
coracle right end up, threw away his twig
brush, picked up the pot of tar, and prepared
to retrace his steps.

Lep, delighted at the thought of getting
home, ran on ahead, his mind already filled
with the cabin hearth and its heavenly glow,
so much better in his experience than any
delusive sunlight. His master delayed a
few minutes longer in order to secure the
boat with a rope passed round the corner
of one of the big rocks, already worn smooth
by that service. He was about to mount
the path when a sudden howl of anguish,
followed by yelp upon yelp of pain and
terror, reached him from above. With a
bound he was at the cliff and beginning to
mount. He had not gone many yards
before he paused, riveted to the spot by
what he saw. On a sort of outlier of rock,
a little to the left of where he was standing,
stood his enemy, Mat Brady, with an evil
grin on his hideous brutalised face, and alas !

alas ! in his throttling grasp poor faithful
white-coated Lep, his master's inseparable
companion ever since five years ago he had
saved him from drowning as a pup.

The dog's fate was evident. The other
brute was going to throw him over the cliff,
only delaying, in fact, in order to enhance
the agony, and his own consequent enjoyment
of it. Hurrish started forward. Lep caught
sight of his master, and again and again
howled for help. Hurrish redoubled his
efforts, but the distance was still considerable.
Before he could reach the spot the
deed would have been done, and the doer of
it safe from pursuit.

Once, twice, Mat Brady had swung the
dog over the yawning height. The third
time he was about to launch him upon
his fatal journey, when  not his arms, but
his legs were suddenly pinioned fast from
behind.

A wild tatterdemalion figure, with white
vacant face, starting eyes, and long lank
hair streaming in the wind, had sprung up,

it was not easy to say from where, and had
delayed the execution.

Hould him tight thin, Thady, more power
to ye ! Thunder and turf, hould him till I
git t' him ! " Hurrish shouted from below.

His astonishment over, Mat Brady's native
brutality returned in all its force. With a
howl of fury he turned and clutched the newcomer
by the throat, necessarily dropping Lep,
who thereupon took to his heels, never resting
until he was once more safe under his master's
shield. It seemed at first as if one victim
was simply going to be substituted for another.
Mat Brady's clutch was upon the new-comer's
throat, and he was dragging him nearer and
nearer to the brink. Now one foot was over
it ; now the other ; now he was all but gone.
Happily Hurrish was by this time close at
hand, and with a hideous execration, and a
kick which stretched his victim full length
upon the very verge, Mat Brady broke away,
betaking himself once more to the rocks, and
scrambling over the rifts with that odd shambling
gait of his, more like the ungainly movement

of a sloth or some such plantigrade animal
than anything more distinctively human.

Hurrish did not attempt to follow. He
stood still and watched him, an expression of
dark animosity settling down upon his good-looking
placable face.

Ein ! truth we'd better rin ! " he muttered.
"Maybe y' haven't forgot th' latin I
gave ye last Michaelmas was a twelvemonth !
But what's the good of a latin to the likes
of you? All the latin in life wudn't bate
decency into ye, sort wudn't. 'Tis shooting
ye want, ye baste of the world, an' I'd shoot
ye as ruddy as an ould scald-crow any day
in the week if it wasn't for Morry. Poor
Morry ! God help ye for a misfortune
gossoon! 'Tis an elegant brother ye have,
chorea, sure an' martin ; an' 'isn't the ind
of him we've seen neither, more's the pity ! "

CHAPTEK IV.

INTRODUCES THE READER TO A FOOL AND
A PHILOSOPHER.

Thady Connor, or Thady-na-Taggart, was
the idiot or " natural " of Tubbamina. Village
idiots, once common institutions in England,
are now scarce  increasing civilisation,
or possibly increasing dislike to people who
give trouble, having tended to cause their
disappearance, or their concentration in the
parish workhouse. In Ireland, civilisation
has not yet reached this point, and the village
idiot is still a recognised member of the
community  nay, an appreciated one. The
"natural" only does rather better what
every one else does more or less  namely,
as little as possible. As a mere standard of

comparison, too, and as a pleasant stimulus
to complacency, he can never be other thana
somewhat popular institution.

Out of all the neighbourhood of Tubba-
mina there was no fire to which Thady-na-
Taggart gravitated with so unhesitating a
readiness as to Hurrish O'Brien's, or so profound
a certainty of a hearty welcome. Poor
Thady had a dumb passionate affectionately
that is to be found in hardly any perfectly
sane citizens, and only in a few exceptionally
natured dogs. For those he loved he
would cheerfully have walked into the fire or
into the sea had they requested him to do
so. When Hurrish went for a day's fishing,
Thady would wade out waist-deep to meet
him upon his return, to help to pull in the
boat, and to caper round him with fond gesture
of affection and exuberance, like some
uncouth but tender-hearted cow or colt.

Thady was no respecter of persons. Even
before the recent socialistic illumination, the
difference between frieze coat and broadcloth
was practically non-existent for him.

He would sit on his heels, with a laugh of
derision on his face, when Sir Thomas
MacDoual, who owned half Tubbamina, rode
by. Even when his lordship, the lord Bishop
of Killagobbet, came to open the new parish
church, Thady, to the scandal of all his
relatives  the female ones especially  declined
to get up or pay any respect to that
august prelate, so that they were obliged to
stand in a cluster before him, with petticoats
extended, curtseying down to the ground in
order to avert the curse of heaven from his
contumacious head.

The thoughts of an idiot are mysteries !
Like dreams, or the visions of a man under
chloroform, they need an exponent. That
Thady did think was evident, for his lips
would work rapidly, and his forehead knit, and
he would mutter half expressed words, which
sounded like arguments or expostulations
addressed to some unseen auditor. There
was no one, however, to interpret these
arguments,  certainly no one at Tubba-
mina ; so that, like other veiled sayings of

greater celebrity, their secret remained forever
locked up in their utterer's own breast.

When Hurrish O'Brien reached the scene
of the late conflict, he found poor Thady
sitting up and rubbing his head, the back of
which had sustained several severe contusions
against the pointed stones at the top of the
cliff. Even although your head may not be
worth very much when it is whole, a hurt
to the back of it is probably quite as uncomfortable
as though it were the honoured
brain-box of a Solon or a Solomon. Poor
Thady's innocent face was puckered up like
a baby's, preparatory to a cry. It was evident
that he was in considerable pain.

Hurrish supplied probably the best immediately
available remedy by rushing up, grasping
him warmly by the hand, and thanking
him again and again for his timely support,
Lep playing a good second by wagging his
tail and licking his defender's hand  an act
of politeness which he had never before
condescended to perform to this poor shred
and outcast of humanity.

If he did not understand all that they
intended to convey, Thady at least took in
the general meaning, his poor vacant whiteface
growing suddenly rosy with delight.
He did not say anything, but he opened
and shut his mouth a great many times in
succession, each time emitting an odd jerking
noise, something like the click of a
lock, or the startled note of the bald coot.
It was poor Thady - na - Taggart's way of
laughing.

When he had a little recovered, Hurrish
helped him to his feet, and took him back
with him, supporting his steps carefully
over the rocks. Lep, much subdued by his
late experience, followed close " at heel,"
glancing nervously to right and left for fear
of a fresh surprise. Once, when they were
passing a suspicious-looking shieling, whose
roofless walls rose grey and forlorn over
the stony platform, he might have been
observed to wriggle round to the far-side
of his master, so as to interpose that substantial
barrier between himself and it.

VOL. I. E

Another time when a fieldfare rose suddenly
out of a ferny fissure where, for lack of better
retreat, it had built its nest, Lep trembled
violently from head to foot, and was some
minutes before he recovered his equanimity.
His nerves, it was evident, were seriously
upset !

Some time before they reached the cabin,
its blunt gable-ends could be seen rising over
the grey encompassing brows of rock. It
stood so completely detached from everything
else, that it seemed to be considerably larger
than it actually was. The solid stone walls
had happily never been whitewashed, so that
years, instead of degrading them to a duck-betty
grey with inky streaks, had endowed
them with a delightfully diffusive crop of
yellow lichens, which produced in sunlight
a golden and gleaming effect. Another advantage
was, that the enormous size of the
material and stoniness of the surroundings
lent a certain air of stern and arid purity to
the immediate neighbourhood of the house.
There was no repulsive muck-heap before the

door, and no puddled mud. Instead, there
were enormous paving-flags  natural, not
artificial  which it took four of Hurrish's
longest strides to traverse, and upon which
the house seemed to stand as if just set
down upon them out of a box. Everything,
save the actual building itself, was upon the
same Brobdingnagian scale. A low wall, that
encircled three sides of the cabin, was built
of gigantic oblong pieces of stone, amongst
which might be seen the dismembered trunk
of a cross,  not in its present condition recognised
as such. There was no porch, but
on one side of the door had been erected a
side-screen, of the kind known as a lascars
an obvious necessity, where the wind often
drives with a force that would blow a stray
child or loose piece of furniture straight up
the chimney. And this lascars consisted
mainly of a single block of stone, which
might have come in usefully in building
the great Pyramid, and which looked like
a legacy left from the days of King Gold
MacMorna and his eight hundred giants.

Old Bridget was sitting as usual over the
fire, stirring the pot for the mid-day meal.
At sight of her son, however, she at once
sprang up, and came forward with gleaming
eyes to meet him.

Hurrish, avick, what have ye been ?
Have ye heard what happened this day?
glory be to God and the saints for the same !
Buggle  the little black villain that was serving'
writs, ye know  he's dead. The boys
dun for him on yesternight at the Killarney
cross-roads ! An' my blessing' an' the
blessing' of heaven be upon thin for the same,
Amen ! Arrah, where were ye, not to be
lending' a hand? That I should have a son
a grown man  the strongest and biggest
man in the country,  and him never striking'
a blow wit the rest ! "

Hurrish made no immediate reply. Somehow
this excellent piece of news did not
seem particularly to raise his spirits. This
was not the sort of warfare that had warmed
his heart, and filled his head, as he painted
his boat in the Tullymaney spleen.

Sure I hard the creature was lame, mither,"
he said, in a tone of expostulation. " 'Isn't
much kill he'd take, God help him ! "

Lame ! " Bridget's eyes blazed, and she
set her teeth like a tigress. " An' isn't his
part ye're takin', now ? Faith it wanted but
that ! His part !  the dirty spalpeen,  the
black Protestant while ! Lame ? " she went
on, raising her voice louder and louder,  " I
warrant ye, he's lame enough now, anyhow !
Limpid' down the road to hell, that's what
he is coin' this minute, the little thieving'
Shingann ! Och, an' I'd give me two eyes
to see it, so I would ! I'd laugh,  I'd laugh
till the tears rin down me cheeks, only to
see him going' ! "

Whist, mither, whist ! My God ! is it a
woman ye are, at all, at all ? Ye make me
'shamed, ye do. D'ye think the creature
hadn't a mither, too  one that's crying' her
heart out for him most like this minute,
God help her ! I'm not saying' that he
oughtn't to hav been stopt," Hurrish continued,
rather shocked apparently at his own

heretical humanity. " But to be beaten to
death !  an' him all by himself  by a have of
big men ! Och, mither 'cushla, 'taint that
way ould Oireland's to be freed anyhow.
Tis thin sort o' coin's that makes the Cause
be 'bused, so it do ! A dozen big men setting'
on one poor trimblin' little bodagh, and
latin' the life out on him wit sticks at
night ! 'Tis cold my blood is this very
minute, to think ov it."

'Wasn't sticks at all, so that shows how
much ye know. 'Twas stones they dun it
with," Bridget said sullenly.

Will, 'isn't that wurst, if anything ? If
he was to be kilt, sure shooting' ud be the
marcifulest."

Och, wud ye be takin' powder and shot
to the likes of that ? " she retorted with fine
scorn. " 'Twould be like takin' the fire-shovel
to kill a flea; so 'thud  no better."

Hurrish said no more. The relative advisability
of shooting a process-server or stoning
him to death did not, perhaps, seem to him
to be worth a domestic argument. Still he

felt disturbed. It was not the mode of warfare
which he would have preferred.

Thady-na-Taggart was meanwhile sitting
huddled up on the stool which had been set
for him,  the two boys, who had just come
in from school, making furtive faces at him
whenever their father's back was turned. He
was dimly aware when people were talking
around him, but what they were talking about
he had not a notion. As for taking part in
any conversation himself, he had never done
such a thing in his life ! He was as nearly
dumb, in fact, as any creature born with the
complete use of his tongue and his palate
could be. What conversation he had was
either with himself, or with the magpies and
saddle-crows, whom he was sometimes set to
scare. At present he was employed in counting
his fingers, and seemed to find the calculation
inconveniently abstruse.

Old Bridget  of whom he was desperately
afraid, and was secretly watching under his
eyelashes  stalked about the cabin, swinging
her skinny arms, and making a clean

sweep of any one who ventured to approach
her. Lep, who was peeping innocently into
a pot, on the chance of finding something
edible in it, received a kick which sent him
yelping back to his master. She was certainly
not an agreeable old woman this !
Looking at her at such moments, you would
have been irresistibly reminded of those historic
beldame who, from time to time, have
revelled in perfect carnivals of horrors. Intimes
of revolution she would have been certain
to have come conspicuously to the front.
Her wrinkled face would have been a sort of
inevitable accompaniment to the gibbet or the
guillotine, and in more irregular executions
she would probably have developed into a
perfect demon of ingenuity,  one of those
horrible, but unfortunately not impossible,
incarnations of cruelty that make hideous
the last moments of murdered men.

There was not a redeeming point, not a
touch of softness or tenderness, anywhere in
her whole composition, with the exception,
perhaps, of the inevitable she wolf love for

the offspring she herself has borne. No tenderness,
no weakness, no submission disarmed
her. Alley Sheehan's fragile girlish beauty,
for instance, had never moved her to anything
but hatred. She could have turned
her out a dozen times to starve, if Hurrish
would only have let her. In vain the poor
child tried to conciliate her with untiring submissiveness
; her very sweetness and gentleness
seemed only an additional incentive to
the other's rage, as is by no means unfrequently
the case. The poor girl used to wake
at night in an agony of terror, thinking that
Bridget was standing over her, or that she
was shouting some order which she had failed
to obey. The very sound of her voice made
her tremble painfully ; indeed it was not unfrequently
followed by the discharge of some
handy missile, such as a bottle or a broken
seat of a chair, sometimes  more terribly still
by personal chastisement, administered by
her own hard and merciless hands. Alley
never complained to Hurrish of these persecutions.
She used to run away whenever she

could, and hide herself amongst the rocks,
and when evening came she would cry herself
to sleep, night after night, in the little
black corner of the inner room which she
shared with Katty, the baby of the O'Brien
brood. She had a longing, amounting often
to absolute agony, for a mother's care, or
for some womanly tenderness ;  it was the
strongest yearning by far of her nature.
She was too much of a child still herself to
take the children to her heart, otherwise
than as playfellows, often as fellow victims ;
and to have revealed her own innermost
feelings to any man, even Hurrish, would
have been utterly wounding to her feelings
of delicacy.

Poor little Alley Sheehan ! Hers was certainly
the tiniest atom of a mind that could
readily be conceived, comparing unfavourably
probably in several important particulars with
that of many a well-instructed cat or dog.
What there was of it, however, was pure as
crystal  pure as one of those rock-girt pools
amongst the crests of the mountains she could

see across the bay,  pools into which nothing
looked but the floating clouds, the cold
white moon, the great encompassing galaxies
of stars. There was a sort of petal-like delicacy
of texture about her moral and spiritual
nature, an alpine flower bloom and fragrance,
which is rare, as all fine things are rare, but
not rarer, I conceive, in her class than in
any other ; a sensitiveness, too, which made
all unkindness cut like a lash, and which lent
a terrible strength to her gaunt old tyrant's
ferocity. Hurrish was well aware of all
this, and though, with a mixture of indolence
and traditional reverence, he never directly
reproved his mother, he was often on the
watch to intervene, generally jocosely and as
if accidentally, between her and her victim.
Alley, in her turn, knew this, and her gratitude
flew out to him for it in a perpetual
benediction. She loved Hurrish as she loved
God! There was no idea of irreverence in
the juxtaposition of the two ideas. Her
mind, in fact, was too simple, too inherently
limited, to admit of any large or complicated

variety of emotions. It was an instrument
of but few strings, but those few
were exquisitely strung.

A shadow came to the cabin-door. Hurried
turned, and his face lit up with pleasure,
while Bridget's grew if anything rather
darker. An old man stood there, a very
small and wrinkled old man, neatly dressed
in arn old tail-coat with brass buttons, corduroy
knee-breeches, blue stockings, and a high
black beaver hat, considerably bent but well
brushed, who came forward with a polite
salutation and the old - fashioned greeting,
God save all here ! "

Hurrish went to meet him with hands outstretched.


Phil Eooney, is that herself ! Come inman,
yer welcome kindly. Clancy, go git
a chair out of the bedroom for Mr Eooney
dye hear me, ye clip, be smart ! Maybe
ye'll step down to the little bit of pasture,
though," he added rather hastily. " There's
a baste I bought last Team was a twelvemonth,
I'd take it kindly if y'd throw yer

oye over him. 'Tis wakely the creature
seems, whatever ails it."

Phil Rodney was a man of a type and
generation fast passing away. He and an
old maiden sister lived quite alone in a small
cabin upon the main road to Ennis, and save
when appealed to on some farriery question,
upon which he was an acknowledged expert,
he rarely stirred off his own little bit of land.
After his rent was paid he was worth perhaps
at most ten pounds a-year, and without the
smallest accusation of exaggeration he might
be called a finished gentleman, if self-respect
and the most perfect breeding in the world
are the essentials of that disputed term.
Whatever admirable qualities the new proletariat
may attain to, when the present
frothy effervescence subsides, that particular
type, it is to be feared, it never can resuscitate.
It is doomed, like the elk or the old
Irish wolf-hound,  productions which, once
extinct in a country, are extinct in it forever
and ever.

The young fellows of Tubbamina thought

very little of old Phil Eooney. He was buta
poor patriot to begin with. The great
lights of America had been flashed in his
eyes, but they had been flashed in vain. He
was too old-fashioned properly to appreciate
the merits of the great dynamite propaganda,
and even the simpler home-grown methods
of carrying on the warfare were often quite
beyond him. When that fine young fellow,
Hyacinth Kitty, for instance, was retailing
before a sympathetic audience the part he
had himself taken in the execution of Mr
Dempster of Bath's bailiff, who had been set
upon one night by twenty armed men, killed,
and hastily buried in a bog, old Eooney got
up, before that exciting tale was even completed,
knocked the ashes out of his pipe,
pocketed it, and walked slowly out of the
cabin, though it was raining a perfect deluge
as it happened at the moment.

The only one of the younger generation
who really appreciated him and enjoyed his
conversation was Hurrish O'Brien ; but then
Hurrish himself, as we have seen, was considered

a very second-rate sort of patriot
by the more out - and - out spirits of the
neighbourhood.

The two men went down the little hill together
;  an odd contrast, one so big, broad,
and stalwart, in his loose ill-fitting clothes ;
the other so small, neat, precise, like a model
of an Irishman upon a bog-oak inkstand. In
his anxiety about the cow, and still more perhaps
to avoid a quarrel, Hurrish had forgotten
all about poor Thady. No sooner, however,
had the idiot perceived that his protector had
departed than he too sprang from his stool,
and fled out of the cabin and after them in
full pursuit down the hill. He would just
as soon have remained shut up with an unchained
lioness  if he had ever heard of so
dangerous an animal  as with old Bridget
in her present humour ! When he reached
the little field, Hurrish and Phil Rooney
were already standing beside the cow, the
former explaining the symptoms, the latter
a pair of big horn spectacles perched upon
his nose  feeling the patient's pulse, and

forming a diagnosis with all the dignity and
importance of a Court physician. Poor Thady
idiot though he was  was as sensitive as
any high-flown lover as to the sentiments of
those he cared for. Seeing, therefore, after
a few minutes' patient waiting, that he was
not wanted, and that his presence had not
even been perceived, he stole silently away,
getting slowly and laboriously over the rough
ground, his white lack-lustre face and queer
bleached tatterdemalion garments constituting
as perfect a resemblance to his stony
surroundings as ever the coat or feathers of
arctic bird or beast to its eternal snow-fields.


The absorbing interest of the cow's illness
over, and its future treatment decided upon,
the conversation of the other two lapsed, as a
matter of course, to the day's tragedy, which
both agreed in regretting, though both held
the unfortunate Buggle to be primarily responsible
for his own fate,  a process-server,
as every reasonable person knows, having no
more human rights than a stoat, and being

liable, like that vermin, to be killed whenever
met with.

I wud under a decent man wud do it,
yis, indeed," Old Rooney said in his cracked
treble. (English was a foreign language to
him, and at home he never spoke anything
but his native tongue, whereas Hurrish, like
most of the younger generation, preferred
the former,  despite its name, by the way,
which will doubtless be changed for the better
when the new Irish Republic finds time to
look about it.)

"I'm not saying' he oughtn't to ha' been
stopped," he observed, in response to his
friend's remark. " Don't mistake me, Phil.
But stones !  they're nasty cruel things
stones is ! The blood runs could through
my body when I think of that crater all
by himself  rinnin' for the bare life, an'
begin an' praying' ov thin to let him off,
and they thrown' the stones at him an'
laughing' ! Lord ! I can see it 's if I'd been
there ! an' the moon gallivantin' along the
sky the way it does, an' not cabin' th' half

VOL. I. F

of a ratten pittance what goes on underneath
! An' never a one nigh him  less God,
maybe," Hurrish added, with a considerable
doubt in his mind as to whether God
would have anything to say to a process-serve.
'twas only yesterday one of the
boys felled me some wan axed him if he
wasn't 'feared to be going' about the country
serving' writs an' suchlike, an' that he ups
an' says no, for he knew they'd never touch
a hair ov his head, 'case of his been' a cripple
an' not able for to defend himself ! Och,
Phil ! man alive, 'taint that way the
country's to be righted, howsomever !
What, killing' a man here and killing' a man
there, and frightening' a lot of poor foolish
colleges, wit rushing' in to the houses in the
dead of the night, cutting' off their hair, an
making' them share  the civil a bit they
know what ! Destroying dumb bastes, too,
that never did no one any harm. Sure,
that's not Jightiri ! D'ye think th' English 
me curses on thin  care how many of wan
another we dish troy ? Isn't that what they're

wanting, the bliggards ? I'm not spain',
mind ye, again the Laigue  God defend it
only I wish they'd make thin stop this
pattern' sort of work entirely, an' pass the
word for the risen'. 'Tis fighting' we want,
an' fighting' men, not cows and colleges!"

Phil Rodney took out his snuff-box  a
brass one with a medallion of the Liberator
on the top. He was a philosopher, and
opined that a great deal of fuss was made by
young men who had not had his experience.
He could remember the pre-famine days
and the rising of '48, and Macmanus, and
O'Doherty, and Weather of the Sword, and
most of the heroes of a generation ago, and
it was his opinion that the time had now
come when what the country wanted was
peace and quietness. Of the modern race of
agitators he did not hesitate to profess the
profoundest contempt.

There's bad times and there's good times,"
he said sententiously in Irish, " and I don't
see that there's so very much amiss with
these. If you young fellows had seen the

times / have, you might talk ! Why, I remember
in Ballysadare, when there were
forty-three corpses lying dead at one time !
Forty-three ! yes, indeed, and they didn't
need to be buried either to be skeletons
most of them ! The changes too ! Why,
I can remember when it was all the masters
the bailiffs was after ! Did I ever tell you of
the time a bailiff came down to Lugnaskeagh,
all the way from London it was, with a
writ for the master ? A terrible wild man
he was, Sir Malachi O'Donel, God rest his
soul, but there wasn't a boy on the place
wouldn't have died and gone to jail for
him, so there wasn't. Well, the bailiff man
brought the writ all the way over the sea 
a fine upstanding young fellow, with a blue
waistcoat, and a gold watch, and a necktie
right up to his chin. And he wanted, right
or wrong, to get up to the house to serve it on
the master. But if he did, the boys caught
him just as he was reaching the great door,
and nothing would do them but he must eat
it ; and eat it he did, sure enough,  paper,

and ink, and seals, and all, and the sputtering
and the fighting !  oh, wirrastrue, wirra-true
! that was a sight. And his honour,
Sir Malachi, peeping out behind the window-curtains
all the while, and laughing fit to
split. And when the last bit of paper
was eaten, and the young man had gone
away, spitting, and swearing to have the
law on them, he came out and gave them a
glass of whisky all round, and they hurrahed
 I was only a slip of a gossoon myself
at the time  they hurrahed, so you'd have
heard them at Got ! Seems odd to remember
now, when it's nothing but killing the
landlords will do them," Phil added, with
another philosophic sniff out of the brass
snuff-box.

Hurrish laughed loud and long at this
story, though, as will easily be imagined, he
had heard it a few times before. He loved old
Phil Eooney's yarns, and often felt a secret
regret that he had not himself belonged to
an earlier generation. The faction-fights,
scrimmages, and " diversions " generally of a

generation or two ago, seemed to him to be
of a much more delectable type than anything
which came in a man's way nowadays.
Not that there was any lack of fighting or
head-breaking either, thank God, but it all
seemed to have grown duller somehow.
There was too much earnest about it all.
Men killed one another for reasons, not from
pure love and friendliness. You took measures
to rid yourself of any one, as you
might take measures to rid your house of
rats ; there was no risk or " entertainment "
about it at all. Now Hurrish was sportsman
enough to think a game decidedly the
better for a spice of danger !

CHAPTEK V.

AN ENLIGHTENED VARIETY OF PATRIOTISM.

While this conversation was going on, the
two men had left the small green oases, and
were making their way up the stony sides
of G-ortnacoppin, above the rapid stream
which ran white as milk over its boulder-strewn
bed. Hurrish rented one-half of this
valley from Mr O'Brien of Donore, and kept
sheep upon it  goat-like creatures, which appeared
to feed upon the stones, there was so
little else to be seen. What grass there was,
however, was sweet and good, like all the
Burren pasture; nor was their hunger to
be balked even by the deep stony rifts which
seemed set there for the express purpose
of breaking their legs, but into which they

complacently poked their noses as into so
many recognised food-troughs.

A little higher up, the stream they had
been following suddenly disappeared, as the
way of streams is in these thirsty limestone
regions. The valley thereupon changed its
character. From a roughly sawn trench,
broken in every direction with loose boulders,
and presenting all the appearance of a half-emptied
stone quarry, it suddenly became a
symmetrical bowl, rising in an architectural-looking
crescent, the lines of stratification
following directly one above the other, like
the seats of an amphitheatre. All over the
Burren this oddly architectural effect presents
itself. You are brought face to face with
a frowning fortress, outworks, glacis, ramparts,
all complete ; or you drop suddenly into
a stony amphitheatre, with orderly ranges
of seats one above the other, which appear to
be only waiting for some dilatory audience.
In this instance the human part of the scene
was represented by two sets of habitations,
ruins both of them, but ruins of widely

different dates. One a group of cabins 
deserted perhaps twenty years back  roofless,
blear-eyed, smoke-blackened,  repellent
even in their very piteousness ; the other
a group of those far-famed " clochauns " or
beehive oratories, which rejoice the soul
of the antiquary in these Celtic solitudes.
Mysterious looking, wigwam-like abodes,
built of undressed stones, put together without
the aid of mortar, larger stones projecting
here and there, like sticks out of a
bird's nest. A doorway at one side  the
doorway of a dog-kennel  averaging perhaps
three feet and a half in height, and over
this doorway a window, five, or in unusually
boldly - proportioned specimens six inches
across, while over this window again five
white quartz pebbles set perpendicularly and
three horizontally combine to make a little
cross, looking at a distance as if splashed
in in whitewash. Three of these Lilliputian
cells  all that remained of a once
populous monastery  dotted the grey floor
of the amphitheatre. Fancy pictured the

wild head of an Irish monk  say about the
year 850  protruded through his doorway of
a morning, like his cousin the hermit-crab's
through the mouth of its shell, while its
owner  crouched necessarily upon all fours 
looked round the valley and considered the
prospects of breakfast !

Our two friends paused a moment and
looked up this stony valley, which was
threaded by a tiny path trodden by the
feet of passers - by, and leading to the
high-road which lay upon the other side of
the next ridge. Some one was descending
this path  a tall young man, dressed, not
like Hurrish and his old companion in rough
home-spun frieze, but in one of those suits
of ready-made tweed which are rapidly
taking the place of the older costume allover
the country. A well-built, well looking
young fellow, showing a pale, rather
sun - deepened complexion, close - cropped
hair, large reddish moustache, and a chin
betokening firmness, not to say obstinacy.
A pleasant face and an intelligent one, yet

a face, none the less, which seemed meant
to warn you not to quarrel, if you could
conveniently avoid it, with its owner.

Hurrish's own genial face lit up with
pleasure at sight of the new-comer.

Maurice Brady himself ! " he shouted,
long before they were within speaking distance.
" The top of the morning and the
best of good luck to you, Morry, me boy ;
an' where have ye hid herself this month ov
Sundays ? Tis sick for the sight of you I've
been, an' some wan else too, that we'd maybe
think more ov," he added meaningly as the
young man drew nearer.

Maurice Brady's mother and Hurrish had
been first-cousins, had spent their childhood
next door to one another, and had made
mud-pies beside the same puddles. It had
been a bad day for the poor woman when
she was tormented by her relations into
marrying old Michael Brady, the widower,
and going to live in his dirty cabin on the
top of the ridge which divided Gortnacop-
pin from Ballynadugal. The father was no

sooner dead than the brutal son had turned
upon the unfortunate woman, and had literally
harried her out of existence,  the first
quarrel between him and Hurrish arising out
of the latter's interference on her behalf.
After his stepmother's death, some compunction
seemed to have come over the savage,
or natural feelings may have asserted
themselves, for his treatment of his brother,
though bad enough, was, comparatively speaking,
humane. The boy had been considered
to show a turn for learning, and it had even
been at one time proposed that he should
be sent to Maynooth. This, however, as the
time drew nearer, he had himself strongly
resisted, the limitations of a priest's life,
however balanced by other advantages, having
absolutely no charms for him.

Like every Irishman of the reigning generation,
Maurice Brady cherished dreams of
ambition,  dreams, too, by no means destitute,
as it seemed to him, of solid foundations.
If every recruit of the Grand Army carried
a marshal's baton in his knapsack, surely

every Nationalist recruit, that can read, write,
and spell, carries an appointment in the coming
Irish Republic somewhere or other about
his personal possessions. Why not? Was
there not young Egan Shaughnessy, who had
been foreman only the other day in the same
little haberdashery shop at Miltown-Malbay
in which Maurice Brady himself served, and
what was he now? Member for Palladio,
and likely to rise to any dizzy height so soon
as the Nationalists began really to warm to
their work ! Maurice had taught himself
shorthand in his leisure moments, and had
already done a certain amount of newspaper
work. It was only for the ' Killogenesawee
Shillelagh and Flag of BallydufF,' it is true,
at present, but then everything in life, we
know, depends upon a beginning.

He had other tastes, however, besides his
ambition  besides, that is to say, what he
called his patriotism. He was a young man
of remarkably good taste, in fact, considering
his opportunities ; and Alley Sheehan's great
grey eyes  wasted as they were upon most

of her contemporaries  had had their full
effect upon him. From his boyhood Hurried's
cabin had been far more of a home to
him than the one he had lived in. Small,
dark, and uninviting as it would have seemed
to most people, with its hermetically sealed
windows and immovable atmosphere of peat-smoke,
it was a palace in comparison with the
foul hovel in which he and his brother had
herded together ;  a palace, too, lit by kind
voices and friendly looks  for even the termagant
Bridget had in those days had a
good word for the handsome, quick-witted
lad, who seemed born to reflect credit upon
his belongings. As for Hurrish, his pride
and delight in young Brady were simply
limitless. His own literary attainments were
strictly confined to being able to spell out
the contents of the dirty little newspaper
which went the rounds of the hamlet, and
was often a week old, and nearly in pieces,
before it reached his hands. Like every
member of his class, he had a profound reverence,
however, for education in the abstract,

"Latin's a load aise carried," being one
of the commonest sayings to be heard upon
an Irish peasant's lips. Maurice Brady's
learning was not, perhaps, a very formidable
burden at present, still he was a promising
youngster unquestionably, and so regarded
by most people, Hurrish foremost. " Beach
an' 'tis a gran' man he'll be yit, never you
fear ! " was his invariable reply to those
cavilling remarks which even the most conspicuous
merit in so invidious a world is
unfortunately always liable to.

When Maurice first announced his wish
to marry Alley, Hurrish had given a ready
consent, and it was settled that the marriage
was to take place as soon as Maurice
could venture to support a wife. Since
then, matters however had changed. Fresh
feuds had broken out between the two houses,
and it seemed but too likely that in Tubba-
mina to-day, as in Verona of old, the hopes
of the lovers were to be the sacrifice.

After a while, old Phil Eooney, between
whom and the new-comer there seemed to

be no very warm sympathy, took his departure,
betaking himself to the narrow threadlike
path leading to the top of the ridge,
his small bent figure in its grey antique
dress seeming to merge into the rocks as
it vanished slowly in the distance. As soon
as he was safely out of hearing, Maurice
Brady stopped short, and pointed towards
the opposite side of the valley, 

Hurrish, I'm af eared Mat means to have
Maloney's farm," he said abruptly.

Ye don't mane it, Morry ! Sure 'tis more
nor his life's worth. The boys'll kill him
sure as they would a jack-snipe ! "

He won't stop for that ! " the other answered,
not without a touch of pride. "If
Mat's mind is made up to have it, have it
he will, if every soldier out of Dublin is
brought to guard it." He looked across the
valley at this so-called farm  a wild miz-
maze of rocks with small " fat " hollows at
intervals,  the sort of "farm" to make a
Norfolk or Leicestershire farmer's eyes start
out of his head. Yet it was one which in

ordinary times commanded a good rent, and,
stranger still  was worth it too.

What I'm most afraid of," he went on,
after a minute, " is about him and you.
I don't know what's come to him lately,
but he's like a man distraught. I was up
at Slievefoore on my way here, and had
to wait as he was out, and when he came
in he was cursing  I never heard him so
bad  raving and swearing he'd have yer
blood,  and not drunk either," the brother
added, meditatively.

Hurrish's good-humoured brow grew dark.

"He was nigh upon killing poor Depths
morning," he said, frowning at the
recollection. " Begorra, if 't hadn't been for
thinking' of you, Morry, I'd ha' throttled the
life out of him thin and there. Be my
soul, yis ! "

Young Brady made no answer, but he,
too, frowned. Mat's doings had long been
beyond defence, still he was his brother,
and he had too deep-rooted a self-respect
not to consider that this fact imparted to

VOL. i. g

him an importance not his own. It offended
him that Hurrish should make such a speech
in his hearing.

Is Alley 't home ? " he inquired rather
haughtily, after they had walked on someway
in silence. It was not often he allowed
himself to slip into such colloquialisms, for,
like most aspirants to distinction, he kept an
anxious guard over his tongue. With old
acquaintances, however, old habits are apt
to break out.

She is, Morry avick  but sure, I'm fear'd
we'd better not come in," Hurrish said
apologetically. " What will these going's on of
Mat's, an' wan thing an' another, herself 's
just fit to be tied. Sure ye know herself
how 'twas last time ? "

Maurice did know unpleasantly well. Old
Bridget had set upon him with broom and
mop, and had fairly driven him away, threatening
to upset the boiling potato-pot over
him if he came again.

"I never see Alley now at all," he answered,
irritably. "It's an uncommonly

queer way of being engaged to a girl, never
setting eyes upon her from month's end to
month's end, and I'm not going to stand it
much longer either, what's more," he added,
fiercely.

'Tis invade, Morry. Three for ye, me
poor boy," Hurrish said, deprecatingly.
'Taint no coin' of mine, anyhow. I'll tell
ye what, now," he added, brightening up
under a sudden inspiration ; " come ov Wi'ns-
day. Herself full be at Tullalogue wit the
spring chickens, an' you'll find the coast lane
an' clear, an' o'er a one in it 't all, only just
little Alley herself and the chiltern."

Maurice Brady made no answer. The
picture was inspiriting certainly, still he
did not choose to relax too soon in his
offended deportment. He knew very well
that, in point of fact, it was not Hurrish's
fault, beyond the weakness, that is, of
yielding for peace' sake to old Bridget's
furious animosities. He was out of humour,
however, and not inclined, therefore, to
make the admission. Besides, it was never

necessary to stand upon ceremony with
Hurrish.

All right  I'll come on Wednesday," he
said, at last. "Mind you tell Alley so. I'll
not go on now, as it seems there's no use,"
he added, stopping short. " I promised Phil
Donellan to look him up some time before he
sailed, and I oughtn't get another chance."

He nodded to Hurrish, and turned abruptly
away and along a narrow " bohereen," between
two loose lacework walls leading in
the direction of Tubbamina. The other
man stood still for several minutes, wistfully
watching the tall active figure striding
rapidly along, until it had turned the next
corner and was lost to sight. Maurice, however,
never looked back. He knew T that Hurried
was fonder of him than of any other
creature in the world  his own children and
Alley barely excepted,  and perhaps this
knowledge gave him a sense of power over
the older, stronger, more tender - natured
man. It is not, we all know, an unfrequent
source of superiority.

It would be difficult to imagine two men,
born under almost identical circumstances,
more unlike than those two who had just
parted upon the ridge of Gortnacoppin. To
Hurrish, life in general  past, present, and
future  was all part of an abounding mystery,
which might be understood perhaps by
Father Denahy, or other competent authorities,
but into which he himself never dreamt
of probing. He was a devout Catholic, and
had a tolerably clear conception of a penal
region in which unconverted Protestants
and other enemies of Ireland would form
the principal portion of the population.
As for those more cheerful realms to which
he would wish to be himself translated, they
were to a great extent confused and mixed
up with traditions of the O'O'Brasil, ,
and other paradises of departed Celtic
heroes, which he constantly scanned the
Atlantic in hopes of catching a glimpse of,
and in whose reality he believed very nearly
as emphatically.

Maurice Brady professed Catholicism, of

course, and duly attended mass, but lie
certainly never troubled his head about any
future, orthodox or unorthodox. Life was
far too clear and sharply defined for him
to need to expand his horizon in such unprofitable
directions. His intellectual fabric,
if not very wide-reaching, was, at least, remarkably
compact and coherent. He had
not to lay it to his conscience that he had
ever wasted his opportunities, or allowed
foolishly sentimental considerations to stand
in his way. Clever young men, born under
peasants' roofs, often waste half their time
in escaping from their early ties. The chrysalis
is set fast in its native soil, and its
earliest efforts are all spent in breaking free
from that unyielding matrix. They are tied
to their hide - bound belongings by knots
which they find it hard to unloose, and
which unites their hearts to a state of things
from which the intellectual side of them is
in perpetual revolt. This had never been
Maurice Brady's case. With the exception
of his affection for Alley  a very gracious

and condescending sort of affection  he had
no tender threads to break. His brother it
would have been difficult to feel very warmly
towards ; and as regards Hurrish, his early
boyish admiration for that redoubtable son
of Anak had long become modified by a
very clear - sighted appreciation of his intellectual
capacity. Hurrish's primitive
patriotism, for instance, was a source of
immeasurable amusement to his more clear-sighted
friend,  it was so inconceivably
old-fashioned and infantine. His besotted
affection for that wretched stony soil upon
which he happened to have been born, was
another trait which naturally moved his
pity. Far from wasting any affection upon it
himself, he would have been only too delighted
to have been assured that he was never
to set eyes on it again. His likes and dislikes
were all rational ones, in fact, founded
upon reason, not merely instinctive and
animal-like. Even his hatred of England
was a purely conventional hatred. It was
the " correct thing " to hate it, and therefore

he did so. He had a considerable gift of
words, and could at any moment have risen
to any required height of foaming sound
and fury had he been called upon to do
so ; but it would have been a purely oratorical
and dramatic fury. There was not an
atom of uncomfortable heat or bitterness
about it. It was a profession, and, as times
went, not a bad profession either, but that
was all.

All over Ireland this marked severance is
growing up between the younger, educated
or half educated peasant or peasant's son,
whose aspirations are all Americanised, progressive,
modern, and the earlier, ruder type
of peasant - farmer, whose union with the
actual piece of soil he cultivates  or does
not cultivate  amounts to a partnership ;
a vital union, like that of the grass and
potatoes. Hurrish belonged to this elementary
and elemental type. If you had
offered him twice the acreage of the best
grass lands in Meath or Kildare, in exchange
for his naked rock, I doubt if he would

have been even tempted to close with it.
He was a sentimentalist  though he had
never heard the word ; and the ground
which he had been born on  that hard,
thankless, rock - bound ground  was the
object of his sentimental worship.

As he walked home now along the rocky
zigzag track which led to his cabin, he was
thinking very anxiously over Maurice's piece
of information about the Gortnacoppin farm.
It was a very serious matter. Mat Brady was
quite bad enough and troublesome enough
where he was  witness to-day, when he had
so nearly succeeded in wreaking his spite upon
poor Lep, not to speak of those tumbling
rocks, which Hurrish began now to suspect
of having had some human agency behind
them. How would it be when he held land
which actually " marched " with Hurrish's
own?  when at all hours of the day and
night he would be in a position to wreak
his spite and malice upon his unfortunate
neighbours? Even this was not the end
of the trouble he foresaw. Strong daring

man as lie was, there were points on which
Hurrish, it must be confessed, was an unmitigated
coward  a moral one. He had an
awe, not unmixed with secret dislike, for that
unwritten law under which he, like everyone
else in the neighbourhood, lay bound
and fettered ; he had also a long-standing
awe of his mother, and the two points showed
a good deal of electrical affinity. If Brady
was allowed to take this farm, he had a
prevision that the results would be decidedly
serious. From all that had taken place
lately, and from the excited state of feeling
in the neighbourhood, he felt sure that he
would not be allowed to do so peaceably.
He was detested, and was just the sort of
man to be made an example of, since no
foolish qualms of pity were likely, in his
case, to arise to mar the absolute righteousness
of the deed.

Now Hurrish, as already explained, had
a dislike to murder in the abstract. He
had a feeling, too, that if Mat Brady was
made away with, the crime or the suspicion

of it would certainly be laid at the door of
his own cabin  nay, might be laid there not
entirely without reason. His mother would
assuredly know all about it, and would stir
him up by every means in her power to assist
indirectly if not directly. Nay, he knew
by bitter experience that it was not by any
means impossible that he might be harassed
into something like a passive participation
in it,  a result which he honestly deprecated
beforehand. Was there no way of stopping
Brady from taking the farm ?  that was the
problem which he turned over and overall
the way home. It was a very difficult
one to solve,  the man's brutal courage, no
less than his brutal pigheadedness, making
it almost impossible to hit upon any hopeful
means of coercing him. At last an idea
struck him. It was not very promising, perhaps
; still, under the circumstances, it seemed
worth trying. He resolved to put it to the
test the very next day.

Chapter VI.

MR O'brien OF Donor.

If the cliffs of Clare are stern and terrible,
its lakes are seductive and bewitching beyond
words  gems whose beauty steals into
the heart like love or sunbeams. Elsewhere
the trees, wherever they once grew, have been
swept away bodily from the face of the earth,
a few stunted hollies, an occasional blighted
thorn, the only exception. Around the lakes,
on the other hand, and along the streams
which feed them, there still springs up year by
year a goodly growth,  oak and birch, holly
and mountain-ash,  fighting a desperate, but
upon the whole a successful, battle against
the ever-marauding sheep and goats which
prey upon them, and tempt the sympathetic

looker-on to sigh for the fine old gristly Irish
wolf, which  historically speaking till the
other day  kept those woolly marauders at
home by the terrors of his fang.

Donore Lough is long and narrow, brown
and clear ; with its tributary streams it helps
to form the boundary of two very distinct
districts. Northward extends the barren
mountain limestone district of Burren, the
horizontal rocks of which come up to the
very edge of the lake. Southward the grass-covered
sandstones and coal-measures of
Southern Clare begin, sweeping away in a
succession of irregular undulations, now
higher, now lower, until their farther course
is cut short by the waters of the Shannon.
The geology of a district matters, generally
speaking, very little, save to the geologist.
Eye and foot alike pass from one to the
other without a suspicion of any change.
Here, however, it is not so. The two formations
stand face to face,  foes met in
battle array, whose hostility may be read in
every ridge, and knoll, and scarped hillside,

the very wayside flower of the one disappearing
often, as if by enchantment, when
we pass to the other.

All the country visible from the shores of
Donore Lough, limestones, sandstones, and
coal-measures alike, belongs to Major or  to
drop the now generally disused military title 
Mr O'Brien. It has never been a very profitable
property, and of late years it has produced
hardly any margin at all. Not enough
to keep up that big ugly house you may see
rising with an air of ungainly pretension out
of the trees to the south of the lake ; hardly
enough to pay for yonder posse of workmen,
shouldering their spades and shovels,
and marching off to their homes with the comfortable
consciousness of having done about
as little work in return for a day's wage as
any conscientiously painstaking body of menin
the three kingdoms.

Mr O'Brien was standing at the lake edge
and looking about him as he had done every
evening of his life for the last sixteen years.
The dark blue rippling water was washing

the stones to whiteness at his feet ; the young
trees  nearly in full leaf  feathered down
almost on to its surface. Upon the other side
of the lake lay a long stretch of blue-grey
road, along which a small donkey-cart was
coming towards him at the rate of perhaps a
quarter of a mile an hour. Facing it upon
the same road he could see a party of constabulary
just breasting the brow of the hill,
the reddish rays of the setting sun catching
upon the barrels of their guns and the hilts
of their side-arms. Fine soldierly fellows they
were too, pleasant to see in their smart dark
uniforms, stepping well together, tall, erect,
well disciplined. Handy, well-disposed fellows
moreover, as Mr O'Brien knew, for they were
part of his own bodyguard, coming down
from the newly-erected iron barracks on the
top of the Gortnacoppin ridge. Their merits
were not apparently what chiefly engaged
his attention at that moment. His brow
contracted, his whole face changed, and he
turned away from the sight with a groan of
unmitigated disgust.

Poor Major Pierce ! Sixteen years had
passed since he had returned to the home of
his fathers, with a heart full and brains
primed for its regeneration. They were not
bad brains either, if not perhaps precisely the
sort best suited for the work that they had
undertaken. Clare, with its wild neglected
hillsides ; its lakes set like bright blue eyes
in old and wrinkled faces ; its tracts of
naked rocks ; its sweet rich snatches of pasture
; its kindly, ragged, shiftless people ; its
tales of the fighting O'Briens ; its vast cliffs
and matchless breadths of sea and sky  that
home air which a man never breathes save atone
spot in this whole wide world,  all this
had been very dear to him, and, in spite of
all that had come and gone, it was dear to
him in a sense still.

And yet what a failure ! What a failure !
Here he was, after those sixteen years
had passed and gone, about the best hated
man between Blackhead and the mouth of
the Shannon. A man, the news of whose
death would, as he himself well knew, awaken

rejoicing bonfires from one end of his own property
to the other ! A man who was strictly
forbidden to sit beside an open window, or
to go abroad upon his own fields without a
tame turnkey at his heels ! Poor Pierce
O'Brien ! No wonder the streaks of grey
lay so thickly around his forehead ; no wonder
his wife and daughter preferred Brighton or
Bournemouth to Clare ; no wonder that every
post brought volumes of entreaties that he
would leave that horrible, wicked, treacherous
country, and come where he could live in
peace and safety. Still less wonder, perhaps
 being the sort of man he was  that he
should set his teeth doggedly, and swear that,
come what might, they should neither drive
nor cajole him out of the country. Castle
Donore of Clare was the proper place for an
O'Brien of Castle Donore, and they might
rob him there, or shoot him there at once
and have done with it, but they should
never have it to say that they had made
him run away of his own accord.

His beard  two or three shades greyer

VOL. I. h

than his hair  had grown longer and rather
dishevelled since his womenkind had departed
and had taken the conventionalities
of life with them. Yet, in spite of this,
and of a slight stoop which he had lately
acquired, he looked a soldier still every
inch. A close - cropped head, rather hollow
above the temples, and rather high at
the top, where the hair still grew thickly;
good, well-opened blue eyes, not large but
kindly ; a face which spoke of geniality and
obstinacy, of amiability and irascibility  a
very Irish face, too, though it was rather
difficult to say wherein the distinctive Libertinism
consisted. The geniality and amiability,
alas ! were fast losing ground. Cares,
worries, loneliness, were doing their work,
the friendly blue eyes were fast becoming a
mere nucleus of concentric wrinkles, and the
hospitable genial mouth acquiring a confirmed
droop at the corners.

Poor Major Pierce ! Poor tenants ! Shall
we  ought we not perhaps in fairness  add
poor " Government " that had to interpose between

the two ? What a hopeless dead-lock
it all was ! What a dismal concatenation
of blunders, misrepresentations, prejudices
prejudices from above, and prejudices
from below  prejudices which would have
been laughable but that they were so deplorably
tragic ! In the eyes of the people
about Donore  all, that is, but a few personal
retainers  this poor, good-natured, well-meaning,
utterly puzzled and half heartbroken
man appeared in the light of an
ogre,  a sort of blood-sucking, land-grabbing,
body-and-soul-destroying monster  who devoured
widows' substances, and snatched the
bread from the starving lips of orphans !
One would laugh, but that one is really more
than half tempted to cry  if crying, that
is to say, would do any good. Major Pierce
used to laugh himself, but latterly he had
left off doing so. There comes a point in even
the most ridiculous misfortunes, where the
humour ceases to be entertaining  at any
rate to the victim.

He walked on along the edge, under a

wistful rose-tinted sky. The wind was going
down with the sun, and the stillness
spreading. There was a low stone parapet
at this part, with a few rotting stakes at
intervals, to one of which an old black punt
was attached. A little farther on a stream
fell over some rocks, and the scent of the
mosses and water-weeds rose penetratingly.
How still it all was ! how serene ! how filled
with breathing from the very inmost soul of
peace ! Everything that was grim in the
day-time, was mellowed now to peace and
beauty. The grey terraced hills of the Burren
shone with a pale spectral glow, which
lingered upon their chiselled sides, as upon
the bastions of half-dismantled fortresses.
The same glow floated over the lake, which
was golden in one part, and transparent black
in another ; the rushes and little upstanding
water-weeds springing up, each in separate
beauty, against this agate setting. Hardly
a sound. Only a little lisp of water, only a
distant leisurely rumbling, only a far-off cry
of hurrying sea-birds. The ascetic dreamy

beauty seemed endowed with a voice that
was simply itself made audible.

The poor owner of these serene possessions
was hardly as atoned as he should have
been to their enjoyment ! There was nothing,
you see, dreamily peaceful in the outlook
which lay before him ! Only worries and
more worries  only the bitterness of a mind
which sees that everything it has set itself
upon is going contrariwise ; only a growing
dogged determination to fight a losing
battle, but to fight it out to the bitter end.

He turned away from the lake and the
peace and the glow, and entered a narrow
walk between tall, rather neglected-looking
trees, which led past the gate of a disused
churchyard, beyond which stood a ruined
church, deep on every side with nettles, and
beyond which, again, could be seen the
tangled opening of the wood.

It was quite dusk here, and the shadows
under the trees were almost black. It was a
little startling, therefore, as he approached
the middle of the walk, to see a figure  tall

broad-shouldered, evidently frieze-coated 
waiting for him in one of the larger of
those patches of shadow, and close to the
gate of the disused churchyard.

A bolder man than Pierce O'Brien, I may
say, never breathed or fought. He utterly
detested this protection forced upon him
by a paternal Government, and expended
a good deal of rather misplaced ingenuity in
evading it whenever circumstances rendered
such evasion possible. Again and again
had he obliged those unfortunate myrmidons
of the law, the " polis," to waste breath in
an excited scurry over hill and dale before
they could come up to their charge and take
him under their bayoneted protection again.
He did not even, for his own part, believe
profoundly in this so-much-talked-of peril.
If people wanted to shoot him, he had given
them no lack of opportunities, and so far
they had not availed themselves of them.
Still, when you have been told for months
past that your life is hardly worth an hour's
purchase ; that dozens of people are thirsting

to pour your life's blood out upon your own
threshold ; when you have not only been assured
that your execution has been formally
decided upon, but even the gentleman who has
undertaken that delicate office has again and
again been confidentially named to you,  it
stands to reason that a suspicious stranger
skulking about your avenue awakens livelier
emotions than where you expect no more thrilling
visitor than the milkman or the post-boy !

He did not turn back, however,  merely
put his hand in his pocket, and produced an
ugly sausage-shaped parcel which presently
gave forth a significant click.

Who is there ? " he inquired.

'Tis me, your manner  Hurrish O'Brien,"
came from the depths of the ominous
shadow.

Mr O'Brien gave a laugh  rather an
angry one  and put his parcel back into his
pocket again.

And what the devil, Hurrish O'Brien, do
you mean by hiding in the trees like that ? "
he inquired, irritably.

I was waiting' to have a private word with
yer manner, Meejar,"  and slowly, like some
unusually substantial ghost, Hurrish emerged
from the deep blackness into the comparative
illumination of the tangled pathway.

' Private word ? What do you want a
private word about, eh ? "

I'll tell yer manner that when we're to our
two selves," was the cautious reply.

Mr O'Brien groaned. "More worries, I
suppose ! Hang me, if one is left in peace
two days consecutively, it is a wonder !
Well, come in here. We shall be quiet
enough, Lord knows, there ! "

He turned, and led the way into the
churchyard, through a rickety iron gate,
which gave out a discordant croak as if in
protestation. A big horse-chestnut tree, one
mass of flower to the very summit, was lifting
its crimson-tipped spikes above a pair
of stunted yews, spreading thick black arms
over the nettles. Skulls and cross-bones
cheerful and apparently inevitable embellishments
of an Irish churchyard  lay about

in corners, so greened over and harmonised,
however, by mosses and lichens, that it would
have taken a somewhat anatomical eye to
have recognised them for what they were.

Now then, Hurrish, what is it you want ?
Be quick, man ; I've no time to lose."

The tone was irritable, yet Major Pierce
was not ill-tempered, nor even, as a rule,
wanting in courtesy to those about him.
Some allowance must be made for him.
When everything that a man sees and
hears is about as pleasant as a handful
of sand upon a newly-made wound, it is
scarcely to be wondered at if his tone grows
querulous, and his style of conversation un-conciliatory.


Hurrish was not to be hurried. There was
a sense of solemnity to him in his mission.

First an' foremost, I want to pay yer
manner the bit of rent,"  and he mysteriously
produced a large canvas bag, which emitted
a chinks sound.

Mr O'Brien glanced at it suspiciously.

No reduction,  you understand that,

Hurrish ? " he said, sharply. " Reflection !
God bless my soul ! " the poor man burst
out, stung by the mere mention of that
familiar grievance  "do you know that it
is fortyfive years since a single rent upon
the property has been raised? Do you
know how often I've been advised to put
another twenty-five per cent upon every
man jack of you all round, and have always
refused?  upon principle, mind you
upon principle. Do you know that I am
asked now to take thirty per cent reduction,
the same that that fellow Mcclellan
who bought the Tullaloe property only four
years ago, and whose rents have been raised
twice since, has given ? Do you know that,
I ask you, Hurrish ? "

"I do, yer manner."

Very well, then I hope you won't begin
talking about a reduction, because I won't
listen to it, so there's an end of it."

For all answer, Hurrish poured out the
contents of the bag upon a flat tombstone,
and began sorting the coins into little heaps.

i

Yer manner can count. 'Tis the same as
ever," he said, in a tone of expostulation.

Mr O'Brien felt a touch of vexation, perhaps
even of self-reproach. He was a generous
man by nature, much more addicted to
giving than to taking, if circumstances had
only admitted of the possibility of such a
luxury. It was the principle he fought for,
not the dirty pounds and shillings. He
liked Hurrish, and under ordinary circumstances
would have scorned to drive a bargain
with him. It was the word " reduction
" that stunk in his nostrils, and fired
his pride. It was the shibboleth for the
moment of the whole battlefield.

Oh, if you say so, no doubt it's all right,
Hurrish," he said, as he gathered the money
up, and shovelled it loosely into his pocket.
I can count it presently, and give you a receipt.
But why do you want to pay me now,
instead of waiting until the 20th ? "

Hurrish, in lieu of reply, stuck his fingers
into a small hole in the wall near which
they were standing, and dislodged a loose

stone, which fell with a dull thud amongst
the nettles. " I thought I'd as lief pay yer
manner to-day," he said stolidly.

Mr O'Brien asked no more. He knew
better than to push the matter further. Todo
so would have been to tempt the door
of that inexhaustible cavern of lies which is
supposed to yawn around every Irish proprietor.
Hurrish had a good reputation in
this particular, it is true, but no man should
be tempted beyond what he is able to bear.

"Thar's another matter I was wan tin' to
spake to yer manner 'bout." Hurrish paused
and looked suspiciously round the churchyard,
as if expecting to detect some unseen
eavesdropper, his eye resting finally upon
the skulls  safe and silent witnesses of
humanity. " For God's sake, don't let Mat
Brady have Maloney's farm ! " he whispered,
when he had apparently satisfied himself on
this point.

Why not ? " Mr O'Brien inquired sharply.

Becase, yer manner  becase  there'll be
bad work  the civil's own bad work  so

sure as ever he does," was the emphatic
reply.

Mr O'Brien uttered an angry expostulation,
and walked the length of the short path
leading to the gate, then turned back.

How the deuce am I to help it, I should
like to know ? " he inquired, testily. If anyone
else makes me an offer for the farm,
I'm perfectly willing  if he is a solvent man,
that is  to give him the preference. No
one can have a worse opinion of that Brady
fellow than I have myself  ill-conditioned
sot ! Still he has money  he is not likely to
be short at rent-day ; and I tell you plainly,
Hurrish, I can't afford to be out of pocket
another farm. Why, God bless my soul, man,
I might just as well have let the Maloneyss
remain in it if I am not to get another
tenant ! "

An' that's true, yer manner."

Mr O'Brien did not seem particularly
pleased with this ready assent. He turned
away with an angry "Pish," and walked
back to the gate.

"Make me an offer for it yourself, if it
comes to that, Hurrish," he said, when he had
returned. " You're a decent, sober man, and
it would throw the two farms into one, and
make a good thing of it. Come, is that what
you have been driving at ? If so, speak up."

But Hurrish shook his head.

Thank yer manner, I wasn't thinking' ov
myself," he answered, slowly. " I cudn't
take the farm, not if 't was ever so. I've
'enough land as 't is."

That means you're afraid," the other retorted,
hotly. " You've got your orders,
and aren't disobey. Eh ? "

Hurrish made no answer.

It is inconceivable to me how respectable,
well-disposed men like yourself can let themselves
be made the cat's-paw of such a pack
of scheming, good-for-nothing rascals ! " Mr
O'Brien went on with increased irritation 
"fellows without a penny to lose, who would
throw you over like an old shoe the instant
you had served their turn ! Come, pluck up
a little spirit, man, and defy them ! You

usen't to be a coward. Look at me ! They've
been threatening death and destruction tome
for the last two years, and I don't see
that I'm particularly the worse for it."

Hurrish fixed his eyes where he was bidden,
not without a discernible touch of pity,
then shook his head again.

Now, Meejar, sort, sure don't ye know
there's things a man can do, an' there's things
he can't," he said, oracularly.

The Major this time was silent. He knew
it well enough. His position and Hurrish's
were not so utterly unlike but what a certain
amount of fellow-feeling was inevitable. The
reflection did not tend to make him any better
contented.

Very well, Brady has the farm," he
said, curtly. " I shall let him know tomorrow."


Hurrish's face was by this time invisible,
but his attitude was expressive. He stood
still in the darkness, a formidable figure 
big, black, and silently expostulatory.

Mr O'Brien experienced that uneasy sensation

which we all know, even on less
weighty occasions, when we reject some
piece of advice, backed by shadowy, but
none the less ominous, threats.

It's a new thing for you to be so
anxious upon Mat Brady's account," he said,
irritably, as he turned and left the churchyard,
Hurrish accompanying him a few yards
behind. " How long have you and he been
such friends, I should like to know ? "

I don't care a thawneen, no nor th' half
ov a thawneen, what comes t' him," Hurrish
answered, gloomily. " 'Taint that I'm unaisy
'bout, anyway."

They were back on the walk now, and
passing under the trees, through which a
few white threads of light stole casually.
When they reached the more open portion,
Hurrish halted.

I'll be within' yer manner good night, I'm
thinking," he said, in his deep mellifluous
brogue, rendered deeper than usual by his
desire not to be overheard.

''Good night to you, Hurrish. Sorry I

couldn't oblige you. You'll see me up at
your house before very long."

Thank yer manner. Good night, an' God
save yer manner ! "

When he went back to the house, Mr
O'Brien was met by his old man-servant,
who told him that the sub-inspector of police
from Doocaher had called, and was waiting
in the dining-room to speak to him.

Sub-inspector Higgins was a good-looking
young gentleman of twenty six or seven,
whose dearest wish and dream of ambition
had been to go into the army. This
his father, a well-to-do London tradesman,
had declined to allow of, but, as a compromise,
had permitted his son to try fora
commission in the Irish Constabulary,
shrewdly suspecting that very little practical
experience would suffice to cure him of any
desire to continue wearing that uniform, while
for any other it would by that time be too late.
He was not, perhaps, what by very stern critics
would be called quite a gentleman. Still,
he was a harmless, well-meaning young fel-vol.

I. I

low enough, and, under ordinary circumstances,
Mr O'Brien would have been perfectly
willing to show him every possible
civility. Unfortunately, in one of their first
interviews the young man had exhibited some
of the importance of the newly-made jack-in -
office, which the elder one had not unnaturally
been unable to stomach. As a magistrate,
the police and the police-officers were theoretical]
y under his own and his brother magistrate's
orders. Practically, however, it was
not so. The head-inspector and stipendiary
magistrate, being the two officials directly
responsible to Government, were the two in
whom all real power was vested, the others
being both actually and visibly ciphers 
not one of the least vexatious of the many
minor vexations of the times.

Good evening, Mr Higgins," he said, ashe
entered the room and shook hands with
his guest. " A fine evening. You wanted
to see me about something, the servant said.
Sit down. Take this arm-chair."

"Yes, Mr O'Brien. I ar " the young

man had a very distinguished halt in his delivery
 " I  ar  called to speak to you
about  ar  yourself. "

"About myself!" Mr O'Brien's forehead
and eyebrows contracted suddenly. " Indeed
! I am sorry that you should be
troubled about so unimportant a subject.
What is it ? "

"Well, the fact is, Sergeant Flynn has
been complaining to me  complaining rather
seriously, Mr O'Brien. He tells me that he
finds it absolutely impossible to be answerable
for your safety if you persist in declining
the escort which has been provided
for you by the  ar  Government. Now
I put it to you, sir, as a  ar  former
officer, is it fair to subject those unfortunate
men to the certainty of a reprimand,
and the  ar  probability of dismissal, fora
negligence which can scarcely, under the
circumstances, be considered their  ar 
fault ? "

Mr Higgins had rehearsed this little address,
and was not ill pleased with its effect.

Upon Mr O'Brien the effect was exactly that
of an application of mustard to a very sore
spot. Three things especially offended him.
First, the outrageous fact of a mere tenth-rate
Government whipper-snapper like this
young Higgins being in a position to lecture
him  Pierce O'Brien of Donore  upon any
subject whatsoever. Secondly, the undeniable
fact that he had to some extent laid
himself open to such an expostulation by his
persistent evasion of his paternally provided
protectors. Thirdly, the tone, air, and general
delivery of the young man himself, which
rendered that intolerable which under no
circumstances would have been particularly
palatable. If Mr Higgins had been an underbred
and somewhat consequential young Irishman,
the offence, though quite bad enough,
would have been infinitely less ; but being,
unfortunately, a consequential and somewhat
underbred young Englishman, the tone and
accent with which the reproof was conveyed
became part of the offence, and doubled
its enormity. He endeavoured, however,

to reply without visibly at least losing his
temper.

I am sorry to have to disagree with you,
Mr Higgins ; at the same time, I think you
will admit that I am at least as good a judge
of what is or is not necessary as you, with
your very limited experience, can pretend to
be," he said, quietly. " As you are probably
aware, a considerable time has elapsed since
any agrarian crime has been committed in
this neighbourhood, and that being the case,
if I  a native of the district  consider that
the time has also come when the inconvenience
of a police escort may be dispensed
with, I really think that is all that need concern
any one, and so I shall make it my
business to inform the Government."

Mr Higgins in his turn was not a little
nettled by this reply. There was a touch of
hauteur, particularly in the conclusion of it,
which seemed to relegate him from the
position of the full-blown official, to that
of the mere irresponsible under-strapper 
naturally offensive to a young man whose

native self-importance has latterly been fed
with the sense of authority.

My acquaintance with Ireland is, as you
say, rather  ar  limited," he said, with a
somewhat unsuccessful air of indifference.
Under present circumstances I should hardly
be likely to select it as a place to come to
for pla-sure, I must say. How much worse
it is capable of being I don't pretend therefore
to  ar  know ; all I can say is, that it
appears to me at present to be in a perfectly
awful condition. Ton my word and honour,
perfectly awful."

He really did not say " lawful," but the
Cockney inflexion was none the less perceptible.


Major Pierce O'Brien's temper, already
pretty well tried by the events of the evening,
fairly boiled over.

"Then all scan say, Mr Higgins, is, that
I wonder you ever thought of coming to such
an awful country." The " awful " was again
a perceptible Cockney awful. "Asa native
of that country, I am bound of course to

express my gratitude. At the same time,
I think you have really carried condescension
far enough, and might now, without
loss of dignity, devote your evidently brilliant
talents to some more congenial sphere
of action. As regards my poor safety, allow
me to suggest, with all due deference to your
superior judgment, that that is a matter
which entirely and exclusively concerns myself.
If I prefer to run such risks as I maybe
exposed to in this lawful country"  there
was no disguise or hesitation about the h
now,  " rather than have the annoyance
which seems to be inseparable from the present
system of police protection, I have yet to
learn that I am not at liberty to do so. I
am exceedingly sorry that you should have
had the trouble of coming here this evening
upon so wholly unnecessary an errand. Mat,
show Mr Higgins ' out.' "

Mr Higgins was shown out, and retreated
with as much dignity as was compatible with
the somewhat hasty nature of his exit. Ashe
strode up the carriage road under the

interlocking branches of laurel, his mind
was very nearly worked up to the point of
sending in his resignation. To have to live
in an odious climate, to put up with the most
villanous uncomfortable quarters, and to be
called upon at any moment to perform the
most unpleasant offices,  all this was surely
bad enough. To be snubbed and insulted
into the bargain, merely because you discharged
an evident duty, was more than
self-respecting flesh and blood could be expected
to bear !

His host meanwhile remained behind,
boiling over with unabated wrath. Oddly
enough, it was the slight to the country

which chiefly infuriated him ! " D d

Cockney whipper-snapper ! coming and ventilating
his twopenny-halfpenny insolence in
that fashion ! " he ejaculated. Yet this poor
much-abused Mr Higgins had said nothing
surely half or quarter as bad as he, Pierce
O'Brien, had said a hundred thousand times
over ? True ; but then he was a stranger, and
that, it must be owned, made all the difference.

The sense of country is a very odd possession,
and in no part of the world is it odder
than in Ireland. Soldier, landlord, Protestant,
very Tory of Tories as he was, Pierce
O'Brien was at heart as out-and-out an Irishman
 nay, in a literal sense of the word, a
Nationalist  as any frieze-coated Hurrish of
them all. He was furious with himself that
he had not, while he was about it, given
poor Mr Sub-inspector Higgins even a yet

more emphatic piece of his mind. " D d

Cockney puppy ! But I'll make him smart
for his insolence ! Ill report him, sure as
my name is Pierce O'Brien ! To come here
and  and  and " So he fumed to himself,
there being no one else, unfortunately,
to fume to.

His wrath, however, did not last long. It
evaporated almost as quickly as it had arisen,
and settled down into a sort of moody discontent,
the normal condition of his mind of
late. After a while he began even to reproach
himself, not for having lost his temper,
but for having done so under his own

roof; letting the other leave Donore in a
fashion and under circumstances which could
hardly be called hospitable ; Donore ! the very
symbol formerly in Clare for hospitality !
He went back to the empty dining-room,
which he had left in the first exuberance
of his anger, lit a candle, and walked round
the gloomy desolate walls, looking at one
thing after another, he hardly knew why.
Then  setting the candle down upon the
mantelpiece  he stood with his back to the
empty fireplace, gazing in front of him, his
forehead puckered up into a fretwork of weary
wrinkles. The old man-servant, who had
been to the hall-door, returned, and started
violently when he saw his master standing
thus, with a candle behind him and the windows
unsheltered, inviting  positively inviting
 a chance shot. Mr O'Brien stood still
and watched, with a mixture of vexation
and pity, as the old fellow went tremblingly
round the windows, carefully shattering and
barring each in succession, until darkness,
pure and unrelieved, had replaced the warm

widely diffused summer twilight. It struck
him that it was pretty much what was happening
to his own life !

Poor old beggar ! evidently he too considers
that I require protection as long as
I remain in this 'lawful' country," he said
to himself grimly, as he took up the
candle again and went to wash his hands,
preparatory to sitting down to a solitary
dinner.

CHAPTEK VII.

MAURICE IS HURT BY ALLEY'S INGRATITUDE.

The appointed Wednesday came, and Maurice
Brady duly appeared at Hurrish O'Brien's
cabin,  "herself" (as the mistress of a
house is always called in Ireland) being
safe away at Monologue, where she had
gone in the ass-cart with the spring chickens.
Those poor spring chickens ! How they
clucked, and cackled, and fluttered their
hapless wings before being deposited at the
bottom of that cart ! It was a long way for
Maurice Brady to come, even with a lift part
of the way on the mail-car : he was in love,
however  more in love, perhaps, than he was
himself aware  and the obstacles recently
set in the path of his passion had tended

to make him more consciously determined
to persevere with it than he had felt previously,
 a sensation experienced by other
lovers before him.

Alley's beauty was certainly enough to
tempt any young man to obstinacy, especially
one with ideas above the standard of his
contemporaries, and not therefore to be
affected by any want of appreciation upon
their part. It was odd how little the girl
seemed to realise it herself. It was as if the
very beginnings of vanity had never been
born in her. She was too humble-minded,
dreamy, and nun-like, for that sort of
eager self - admiration which flows spontaneously
through so many young girls'
veins, and of which love itself, when it
comes, is often only the completion. It had
been little fed by admiration either. From
the bold admiring looks of passing strangers
she shrank with the instinctive modesty both
of her race and her own instincts ; and
of the little world around her, there were
only two  Hurrish and Maurice Brady 

who had ever even hinted to her that she
was handsome. There are no doubt born
nuns, just as there are born actors, or born
violinists, and the type is more often to
be met with amongst the pious peasant
girls of the south and west of Ireland, than
perhaps in any other class or country in
the world. Alley had an elder sister who
was a nun in Galway, and until Maurice
had asked her to marry him, she had often
thought that she would like to join her,
and to be one too. Even as it was, she
sometimes thought with a wistful lingering
regret of the life. It was so safe ! Poor
Alley's being one of those timorously sensitive
natures to which the horizon of fear
will always be far, far wider than that of
hope.

She was simple-minded and ignorant beyond
the dreams of even the most simpleminded
and the most ignorant in more sophisticated
regions. She could read, but except
her national school lesson-books and a few
penny lives of the saints, she had hardly

read, or wished to read, a line ; as to newspapers,
she would not have glanced at one for
the world. She was exceedingly devout, and
one of the bitterest trials of her life was the
impediments which old Bridget, with specially
vindictive malice, was fond of putting in the
way of her getting to mass upon a Sunday
morning. Food and the shelter of a home
she had from Hurrish, but not a single possession
that she could call her own in the
world. The ordinary incitement, therefore,
to vanity of fine, or even what an English
or Scotch peasant would call decent clothes,
she had never had ; and except that her
red flannel petticoat was never ragged, and
the coarse cotton bodices worn with it scrupulously
washed by herself, no beggar-girl
upon the high-road could have been more
miserably ill-clad. This, however, she cared
little about. She was inured to hardship.
That native asceticism, too, which,
under other circumstances, would have
lent itself easily to the imposed severities
of any religious order, helped her perhaps

to bear the hardships of her present
lot. She did not think about it, of course,
in that light, but it went towards making
them seem not only inevitable, but natural
a very different thing.

When Maurice arrived, she was busily
cleaning the cabin, driving the dust before
her through the open door, to the surprise
and evident indignation of an elderly hen 
the anxious mother of a large family  who,
tired with strolling over the rocks into the
crevices of which her brood were inconveniently
given to dropping, had returned to
the seclusion of the fireside, only to find it in
this state of revolution.

Alley, as it happened, had a turn for
cleanliness, though it was not often that
she got a chance of indulging her tastes in
that direction, her poor little attempts at
orderliness being promptly nipped in the bud
by old Bridget, who  pronounced democrat
as she was in other respects  was a very conservative
of conservatives as regards household
arrangements, denouncing all variation

from the traditional methods as "thrash"
# and " tricks," not to be countenanced for a
moment by people who respected themselves
or the ways of their forefathers.

Young Brady found himself a three-legged
stool, and, placing it in the doorway,
sat down, his legs clad in well-fitting
tweed trousers, stretched out with an air of
condescension across the threshold. Little
Katty, the only child at home, had been
bribed to keep quiet during the sweeping by
the temporary loan of Alley's rosary  the
one portable piece of property which the
poor girl possessed  and was sitting perched
upon the low wall which surrounded the
little enclosure, running the red and white
beads through her fat baby fingers with all
the self-importance and apparent unction of
some stout lady abbess.

Everything in and about the house  even
the chickens and the weeds upon the roof 
seemed rejoicing in the absence of the reigning
tyrant. There was a sense of peace and
comfort, even a vague touch of beauty, about

VOL. I. k

the little homestead to-day, which was more
due perhaps to the lovely cloud-dotted sky #
and warm comforting glance of the sun than
to anything more directly inherent to itself.
Over the fields of rock around, the larks were
singing jubilant, one now and then dropping
with a sudden hush into some gaping
fissure, where, for lack of better lodgment, it
had made its nest, and was rearing a brood
of callow choristers. A warm but boisterous
and self-important little breeze whisked round
the house, astonished apparently to find anything
standing against it. It sent the dust
that Alley had swept outside whirling about
in little fantastic curves and spirals, finally
settling into a thick grey drift in one of the
corners. The old hen had by this time returned,
and was establishing herself and
family, with much chuckling volubility, in
the bottom of a broken chair, which had
been half filled with straw for their especial
convenience.

Marvellous the amount of rubbish of one
sort and another accumulated within the

compass of that one small room ! Odds and
 ends of all sorts, domestic, agricultural, piscatorial
;  a broken harrow, past its work,
reared against the wall ; odd boots of Hurried's,
still coated thickly with mud ; fishing
tackle, and bits of oars ; pans of milk which
had been " set " for butter, but out of which
the cats and children were perpetually taking
surreptitious sips. Everything that any
member of the family had ever used in their
whole lives was probably to be found represented
in some corner or other. No one, however,
except Alley, ever thought that any of
these things would be better put away into
receptacles of their own. Even Maurice Brady
fastidious young man as he was in some
respects  regarded it all as perfectly natural,
and was not in the least offended or disconcerted
by the utterly inconceivable squalor
of the whole arrangement.

This indifference to squalor  rather the admission
of it  is not certainly the pleasantness
bit of duty which falls to the lot of the modest
chronicler of peasant Ireland. Since it now

and then has to be faced, however, it is as
well perhaps to do so steadily and unthinkingly,
as we confront any of the other hundred
thousand not particularly pleasant facts
of life. Cleanliness and purity are words
which admit, too, of more than one meaning,
it must be remembered, and some of those
meanings are not necessarily compatible with
well-scoured floors and furniture gleaming
with hand-polish,  meanings which might
even not a little surprise those uncivilised
ones to whom the floor seems a far handier
receptacle for rubbish than a dust-bin, and
who have no squeamish prejudices against
the indoor society of ducks, or a cheerful,
if vociferous, nursery of young pigs.
When all is said, however, we must leave
the ill to work its own cure. National
idiosyncrasies are hard things to mend,
and exceedingly awkward ones to meddle
with. They yield, if they yield at all,
very slowly  often almost imperceptibly.
We cannot measure worlds by rule, or
put a continent to school," sings a poet

of to - day ; and perhaps even one small
island may fairly, therefore, decline to be
lessoned save by the great head-schoolmaster
Time.

Maurice Brady was certainly not thinking
of national failings at that moment, nor was
he even thinking of his own budding ambition,
 of the days when he, too, would
stand amongst his fellows in the halls of Westminster,
and fling the scornful defiance of an
Irish patriot in the very teeth of the foreign
tyrant. He was thinking of a much prettier
subj sect,  namely, of Ally Sheehan's arms. She
had given up her sweeping upon his appearance,
and had taken up a half-knitted blue
stocking, destined for Hurrish, the needles of
which she was deftly moving to and fro in her
small slight hands. They were unusually delicately
shaped hands, though as brown almost
as if dipped in walnut juice. Higher up,
however, where her faded cotton sleeve had
been pushed for the convenience of sweeping,
a space of arm immediately below the elbow
a space not usually exposed to the sun and

wind  was left visible, and no white rosebud
petal could well have boasted a prettier
colour. The young man fixed his eyes upon
it with an air of approval.

"Some of these days see if I don't bring
you a dress, a real silk one, Alley," he said,
in a tone of lordly decision,  " a light green,
perhaps, or maybe one of those fashionable
reds. Dress you as you should be dressed,
and you'd take the shine out of half the
ladies that come to Miltown - Malay, or
Kilkee either, that you would ! "

Alley blushed a little and held her head
down, pleased, but shy. Though he was her
lover, Maurice was not usually prodigal of
compliments.

An' what ud I do 't all in a silk dress,
Morry, dear," she said in her gentle sing-song
western tones, so infinitely pleasant to
listen to than the hideous gutturals of the
opposite side of the island.

"Do?" Maurice grew quite excited at
the thought. " Begad, and there's plenty
of things you'd do ! Look like a lady, born

and bred,  as I mean my wife to look, I
can tell you ; wear shoes and stockings
every day of your life,  the best to be
had,  and gloves too, and a hat or bonnet,
with a veil, of course, when you went out in
the sun. And you'd have a satin parasol,
a white one with a proper lining, and lace
that deep "  Maurice's haberdashery experience
lent, it will be observed, a certain
amount of practical detail to his imagination
 " and your dress down to the ground,
and humped up so "  with a little necessary
dramatic explanation  " for every lady,
and plenty that's not ladies at all, has it so ;
and you'd walk along beside of me, picking
your steps carefully and pointing your toes
so, and when the cellars looked at you admiring
like  as dozens would  you'd just
look over their heads, or to 'one side, so  as
much as to say that you wasn't aware they
were in it at all ! "

Alley burst into a peal of laughter  pretty,
silvery, ringing laughter  which rang through
the stony surroundings of the cabin, and

made little Katty look up at her playfellow
with an air of momentary astonishment on
her rosy, dusty little face.

Arrah, Morry, dear, 'isn't me, 't all 't all,
'tw'd be thin," she said ; " 'tis some gran'
lady ye're seen at Miltown yer thinking' ov !
Sure, how ud i" know how to wear a veil,
or to put me toes so. Tis laughing' at me
year!"

"Not at all, Alley." Maurice's expression
showed that he was in fact perfectly serious.
You don't understand me, that's all ! " (He
had perceived that in the enthusiasm of his
last speech he had allowed his rhetoric to
run into somewhat native variations, and
was therefore additionally watchful now.)
Of course you couldn't be expected to
learn all these things at once" he went
on condescendingly, " but I should be there
and able to train you, for I've watched how
ladies behave often and often, and thought
to myself,  'Alley Sheehan could give you
all a start, and beat you easy if she had her
rights ! ' Isn't that why I'm so fond of

you ? " he continued, in an explanatory tone.
Sure, if 'twas money, or that sort of thing
I was thinking of, 'wouldn't be yourself I'd
look at, when you haven't a ha'porth  I
mean a pennyworth  good or bad in the
world, as you know very right well yourself."

This time Alley did not laugh. She
sighed instead, and let the stocking slide
down upon her lap.

But you've looks, and that's better," her
lover went on convincingly. " I'd rather
have ye as you are, than I'd have a 
girl with her pockets full of
gold  and 'isn't many young cellars in the
country would say that ! " he added, with not
unjustifiable self-exultation. " I'll be earning
me two pounds a-week before very long,
and more than that, too, in another way, 
I'd tell you how, only that you wouldn't understand
me,  and then I'll come or send for
you, Alley, and marry you right off; and
we'll live in Limerick, or Dublin itself maybe,
and never come nigh these stupid old
racks again, or be bothered with any of

the people, for 'tis sick and tired to death of
the sight of them I am ! "

But Alley was not at all prepared for so
heroic a measure of transplantation. On
the contrary, a pang of dismay, for which
she could hardly herself account, shot through
her at the bare suggestion.

Is it lave entirely ? Is it not see Hurried
't all 't all ? Och, Morry, sure I cudn't !
'Tut break me heart out an' out ! " she exclaimed,
with sudden panic.

Maurice Brady's brow clouded immediately.
His expression, which had hitherto been all
that was complacently kind and protective,
grew suddenly hard and stern.

That's a nice hearing for me, I must
say ! " he exclaimed, angrily. "To be told
you're that set upon Hurrish, that you
wouldn't go away from where you're so badly
treated  not when it's to go along with
me / 'Tis only what I might have expected,
though. Women are all like that. No
gratitude or feeling in them at all at all,"
with the air of one deeply versed in the

ways of that perfidious sex. "And / that
have been thinking of nothing but how soon
I could marry you, and get you away from
it all, and give you good clothes and mate 
meat, I mean  every day, and everything
you could possibly want or wish  and all
at once to be told that you like your rags
and tatters and bits of potato - skin and
skilligolee  skim-milk  best ! If you hadn't
told me so yourself, I never would have
believed it of you, Alley  never ! " he added,
in a tone of high moral reprobation.

Poor Alley was all penitence in a moment.
Disapprobation from those she cared for was
like the withdrawal of sunlight to a daisy, 
it caused her to curl up her petals and collapse
immediately.

Sure, Morry, I didn't mane to offend you,"
she said, in a tone of deprecation, the tears
beginning to collect in her violet eyes and
to fall upon the stocking in her hands. " I'd
go anywhere 't all wit you,  an' why not,
iv course ? But you see I'm only a poor
ignorant colleen, an' I get airily dashed, not

been' used to strange people, or understanding
, their ways or gran' talk the way you
do. Me heart seems just tied to the things
I know  most of them, leastways," with a
recollection of old Bridget, to whom even her
gentle heart was not perhaps very warmly
tied. " I don't seem able to think even of
going' away  not altogether. I'm like thin
little cellar strokes ye may see round the
edges of the say-pools, that go jumping',
an' hopping', an' chancing', an' pulling' away, as
if they was wanting' to be flying' aff all over
the country ; an' all the while they never gits
rally away from the water, an' I don't suppose
they're wanting' to, neither."

That's because you have no imagination,
Alley," the young man answered promptly.
I'm not blaming you for it, mind. " If
it isn't born in you, you couldn't have it
not if you paid a hundred teachers to learn
you. Now I'm so different. Ever since I
was a little bit of a sellar I was always
planning and thinking and saying to myself,
'I'll do this, an' I'll do that, when I'm

growed a man.' And I'd lay awake at
night planning it all out  how I'd get all the
larnin'  learning, I mean  I could, and not
mind the botheration of it, becase it would
all be wanted, and more too, and I'd make
friends with all the smart young cellars I
met, and not be sticking to the old ways 
such as Hurrish and the rest of them here
'bout does  but have an eye open to see what
was for me own good ; for there's a grand
time coming entirely for smart cellars in
Ireland, Alley, I tell you that  though 'tis
little you understand, nor would, I repose, if
I was to talk from now till tomorrow."

Poor Alley sighed, and was silent. The
gulf of inferiority which separated her from
her brilliant lover did indeed seem to her
so wide as to be almost .impassable. It
frightened her, and made her wonder whether
he could really wish to marry her. Surely
she would be nothing but an encumbrance
to him. He ought to marry one of those
grand ladies whom he had been describing,
who came to Miltown-Malbay or Kilkee for

the bathing season, and who knew by nature
how to point their toes and all the rest of
those accomplishments which she could never,
never, she feared, acquire. She had felt the
same thing often before, though seldom, perhaps,
quite so acutely. If at that moment
he had told her that he had made up his
mind to throw her over, I almost suspect
that her first feeling would have been one of
unconscious relief.

Maurice, too, was silent  lost, perhaps, ina
beatific vision of future dignities to be
attained to by himself; and in the stillness
steps were heard coming towards them  a
pair of iron-bound boots striking against the
crisp edges of the rocks  and a minute after
Hurrish's big frame and broad genial face
were seen over the low wall encircling three
sides of the cabin.

Katty  who had been getting desperately
bored with her plaything  threw down the
rosary disdainfully into the dust, and started
off in a short scrambling run to meet him,
clutching him tightly round the knees before

he could get inside the enclosure, and throwing
her whole baby weight against his legs.

Like all big mild men, Hurrish adored his
children, and Miss Katty especially ruled
over him like a despot.

Well, Kitteen, ye torment, an' what d'ye
want wit yer da ? " he asked admiringly,
stooping down and picking her up in his
arms. " Will I toss ye away an' be quit ov
ye dance an' for all ? "  pretending to throw
her up on to the roof of the cabin, where
a house-leek  emblem of good luck  reigned
over a green forest of wild oats and nodding
grass. " Luk where ye're thrown poor
Alley's bales to, ye bad girl," he added,
stooping and picking them up. " For
shame ov yer, Kitteen ! 'Tis a big stick
ye want yer dada to cut for ye,  that's
what yer after. Well, Morry, me boy,
how's herself ? "

Young Brady responded with friendly
warmth to Hurrish's greeting, and they
talked together for a while. He did not
care to stay much longer, however, now

that the party was increased, so got up
before long, saying that he must be off, as he
had a long walk before him.

Hurrish thereupon went into the cabin,
and returned with a bottle and a tumbler,
which he proceeded to half-fill with unchristened
 i.e., unaltered  poteen, explaining,
as he did so, that he had got it from
Aranmore, where a barrel had lately been
landed by a friend of his under the very nose
of the Custom-house officers. It was one of
Hurrish's idiosyncrasies  the most unaccountable
of them to his neighbours  that he
rarely drank, and had never, it was said, been
known to be drunk in his life, though this
statement is so large a demand upon credulity
that I rather hesitate to lay it before the
reader. Be this as it may, to allow a guest
to leave your roof without offering him a
glass of anything would have been a high
indecorum, not to speak of being the worst
luck possible  a consideration which he was
the last man in Ireland to disregard.

CHAPTEK VIII.

THE BREATH OF CELTIC ELOQUENCE.

The poteen was excellent, and Maurice
Brady sipped it with slow enjoyment. He
was no more of a drunkard than Hurrish,
but he had a native liking for anything that
was good of its kind, and  decent wines
being unattainable  was necessarily a connoisseur
in whisky. He refused another
glass, however, and got up, saying that he
must be off.

Hurrish proposed to accompany him as far
as the turn to Miltown-Malbay, having something
to see to, he said, at Tubbamina.

The parting between the lovers was rather
cold, though Hurrish discreetly retired to
put away the bottle, and remained inside

VOL. I. l

long enough to have emptied three or four
had he been so minded. Maurice was loftily
offended, while Alley was in a state of trembling
alarm and apprehension, fearing to
offend, and yet not knowing how to avoid
doing so.

When at last Hurrish came back there
was no further delay, and the two men
walked off together in the direction of the
sea. They did not, however, cross the rocks
at the narrowest point, but kept away for
some distance to the south, until they came
out again upon the edge at another point
where the cliffs were higher, and almost
vertical. Here, by mutual consent, they
paused, and stood for a few minutes looking
down at what lay below them.

It was worth looking at ! Not that these
were by any means the finest cliffs in Clare, 
not to be compared, for instance, to the cliffs
of Mother a few miles farther down, which
lift their seven hundred and fifty feet of rock
perpendicularly above the waves. For all
that, it was such a cliff and such a scene as

in any other part of the kingdom would have
made the fortune of every fly - owner and
innkeeper within a radius of twenty miles.
In Clare, however, people are used to cliffs,
and do not, apparently, think much of them,
its visitors preferring Lisdoonvarna, where
there are no cliffs, but several brand-new
hotels, and springs said to be excellent for
lumbago, and where you can have the height
of good eating, and drinking too, if your
tastes incline that way. Three hundred feet
below the ends of their toes the gulls were
sitting by myriads  grey feathers upon grey
rock  not to be distinguished, save by a very
practised eye. Higher up, where the rocks
were more friable, puffins squatted in colonies,
each before a hole which he had scraped for
himself. Lower, the outlying rocks and
skerries were black or brown with cormorants,
stretching lean necks, and gazing ravenously
upon the water, green as their own eyes.
Beneath all these again the dark heaving
surface was mottled and traversed in every
direction by moving gesticulations of white,

broad in some places as the sails of a man-of-war,
attenuated in others until they were no
thicker than the thinnest of thin threads,
rising and falling, sweeping rhythmically
hither and thither, under the impulse from
below. The wet rocks took the sun's rays
upon their glittering sides ; the spray rose
in the air like the dust of a submarine explosion,
and fell again with a thud that was
like the fall of many fortresses, draining away
through their twenty thousand mouths, and
streaming back to sea, to be promptly caught
and sent back upon the same errand again
and again, and over and over again.

Familiar as it was to both of them, neither
of the two men was wholly indifferent to
the scene. Hurrish drew a long breath, and
his eyes grew dim and misty. Maurice's, on
the other hand, brightened, and his hands
clenched, as the warm west wind sent its
strong elixir through his veins, and breathed
encouraging promises into his ears,  promises
big with coming realisation. It seemed to
him as if whole fleets of good things were

being floated in from the West  the Land
of Promise  fleets of which " smart young
cellars " like himself would be the captains,
as by nature and reason they ought to be,
able to turn all opposing old fogies overboard,
or string them up to the yard-arms if need
were. He was an orator by nature as well
as by calculation, and he felt that this wind
inspired him. What a tide of eloquence,
what illustrations, what denunciations, what
gorgeously decorated hopes and anticipations
flooded his brains and rose to his lips as he
stood drinking in that warm west wind 
very breath of Celtic eloquence. If he had
had a crowd about him at that moment,
he thought excitedly, begad, how he could
have spoken ! how he could have thundered
against the " enemy " ; what " arguments " he
could have used  arguments, it need hardly
be said, addressed exclusively to the imagination,
 so much larger and more interesting
a field to work upon than any dull plodding
faculties which demand that the arguments
addressed to them should be proved,

or, at any rate, provable. It really seemed
a wicked waste of a magnificent opportunity.
Hurrish's thoughts had meanwhile got
diverted to less heroic and more concrete
objects. A little to the left of where they
were standing, a narrow zigzag path led
down to a small spleen  anglice, little creek
famous for the supply of seaweed which
collected there after every storm. A woman
was coming up this path with a "kish" of
oar-weeds and bladder-wracks upon her
shoulders, which she had been collecting
below. The last bit of the ascent was very
steep, and the poor creature was evidently
nearly worn out. Her face, bathed in perspiration,
was expressive of a perfect agony
of exhaustion. With a sudden ejaculation,
Hurrish ran down to meet her, and, bidding
her turn round, took the kish off her back,
and carried it in his hands to the top of the
cliff. Even for his strength it was a considerable
load.

That was Marty Kelly's wife over from
Tullalogue," he said, when the poor woman,

with many thanks, had again taken up her
load and trudged away. " You wudn't think
it to luk at her, but given year since she was
as party an' nate a girl as we'd wish to see 
not a pryer at a jig nor a riddle at a wake
in Clare ! 'Tis a cool hard life on the women
hereabouts, an no mistake, God help thin ! "
he added, pityingly.

Maurice merely nodded. His thoughts
were otherwise engaged, and he did not
care to have them diverted to such uninteresting
details as these.

I'll be uncommon glad when you're married
t' Alley an' took her away wit yer,"
Hurrish went on. " She's too delicate an'
party for this work entirely. 'Tis thin
sort gives in first, and gits bated an' ould.
'Thud just break the heart in me, so 't wud,
if I seen poor little Alley lookin' all nohow
and draggled like that a one "  pointing
to the retreating figure of Mrs Marty
Kelly, of whom only a very short red
petticoat, two lean brown heels, and a
mountain of wet seaweed was visible,

For several reasons Maurice Brady felt
aggrieved by this speech. For one thing,
it jarred unpleasantly with that high tide
of sentiment upon which he had been floating
so buoyantly, and seemed to drag him
back to the mud and shallows of unilluminated
everyday life. It brought back, too,
the recollection of that start and look of
dismay with which Alley had greeted his
proposal of transplantation, and the double
irritation found vent in his reply.

You seem in a tremendous great hurry
to get rid of Alley this afternoon, whatever
the reason is ! " he said irritably. " I'm sure,
if I saw my way to taking her away at once,
I'd do it, and be delighted. 'Tis hard, I suppose,
on a man feeding and lodging a girl
that's no blood kin of his own, and so, I'll
be bound, Alley feels too ; but, please God,
'wont be for long now."

Hurrish's broad face reddened with sudden
anger. "Is it wanting' to be rid of her ye
think I am ? " he said, in a tone of sterner
displeasure than the good-natured fellow had

often been known to show before. " Ye
never made a greater mistake in all yer life if
ye think that. 'Thud be like a man wanting'
to throw away a little jul that had come
and pinned itself to his breast  he'd need
be a born fool, or hav the civil's own black
heart, 'ud do such a thing. An' ye talk of
her aitin' ! Poor Alley ! 'twudn't make the
difference of a full - growed chicken an' a
pullet all she'd ate wan way or t'other
in the day, God help her! 'Tis her own
state self I'm thinking' of, that never complains,
but work, work from martin' to
night, an' allays a smile for every wan !
Trull be like pulling' the very heart out ov
me brist to let her go ; but sure, a man wud
be no bettered nor a baste that 'ud think
ov himsel' and not of a state rather that's
no more fit for harsh treatment nor the
flowers, nor to be mixed up wit common
folks 't all ! "

Maurice Brady felt a momentary twinge of
discomfort, almost shame  a most unusual
sensation. He was even visited by a passing

suspicion that Hurrish's view of the matter
might be the higher, on the whole, of the
two. He shook it off, however, by saying
to himself that Hurrish was so stupid and
narrow-minded, he always took you to mean
something entirely different from what you
really did,  it was sheer waste of time talking
to him. Of course, he must have Alley's
interest more at heart than any one else.
Wasn't he going to marry her  bring her
up to his own level  make a " lady " of
her ? What stronger proof of affection could
any man give than that f

The two men parted soon after this,  Maurice
retracing his steps along the top of the
cliff, skirting the heights of Mother, where
the Hag's Head rose dark and threateningly
against the sky, then rounding the grass
slopes of Liscanor Bay, past Lehigh, to
the greener and more commonplace stretch
of country where Miltown-Malbay stands.
Several times, in the course of his walk,
Hurrish's words recurred to his mind, and
each time with a fresh sense of annoyance.

Hurrisli ! it really was too absurd ! The
idea of a fellow like that affecting to have
finer feelings and a tenderer regard for Alley
than himself ! The idea was simply intolerable
!

It was so intolerable that it was fortunately
easy to prove that it was impossible,
and before he had reached his destination
Maurice had quite got over his temporary
self-annoyance, and, as a consequence, had
almost forgiven Hurrish. He was not a
bad creature in his way, he admitted, and
had a very proper appreciation for those
above him ; but when he came to talk of
anything beyond his cows and potatoes 
really it was laughable. He wondered now
at himself for having listened with so much
patience.

On going into his lodgings he found a
couple of friends waiting for him, who at once
began eagerly talking about a report that had
come down from Dublin as to the chance of
an election then pending. Maurice was regarded
as quite the " coming man " in the

political circles of Miltown-Malbay and Le-inch.
His gift of speaking gave him that
sort of direct influence which  common as
that gift is  it never fails to procure amongst
his countrymen, who, like the Athenians of
old, live mainly by their ears. He was brimful,
too, of all the socialism of the day,
knew all the latest catchwords, and was
a doctrinaire of quite the most advanced
type. Though he had declined  chiefly
from prudential notions  to join any of
the secret societies established in the neighbourhood,
he was upon friendly terms with
most of their wire-pullers  more courted, in
fact, than if he had actually committed himself.
To a young man with not much to
lose and a great deal to hope for, a state
of social ferment, of " veiled " rebellion, is
undoubtedly a highly commendable state of
affairs. To the old, the timid, the owners of
the perishable goods of this world, it maybe
a source of bitter trouble, anxiety, and
consuming terror, but certainly not to him.
Maurice perceived this fully, and had often

reflected that the revolutionary elements
afloat in the country made it  despite
some self-evident drawbacks  a much more
promising field for a " smart sellar " who
knew what was what, and had thoroughly
realised his own good points, than a more
settled and less fluctuating social condition
would probably have been. In this sense,
and to this extent, he was unquestionably
and unreservedly patriotic.

CHAPTER IX.

AN UGLY NEIGHBOUR.

Meanwhile the position of affairs between
Hurrish and the elder Brady was growing
daily worse and worse. The rate at
which hatred increases and develops, under
favourable circumstances, has apparently
never yet been scientifically ascertained ;
it increases, at any rate, not arithmetically,
but geometrically, like the germ in the yeast,
or the aphis on a rose-bush, which was one
yesterday and is a million millions to-day.
Take an originally brutalised one-idea's nature,
without a restraining influence of any sort
even the jail and the hangman  and
plant in that nature the seeds of a hatred,
the object of which it is continually being

brought into contact with, and the result
will startle even those who believe themselves
experts in the darker capabilities of
our poor humanity. Mat Brady's hatred of
Hurrish dated from years back : he could
hardly perhaps himself have said how or
why it began, but everything that had
happened since had gone to foster it.

That this result was not a little helped
on by the raw whisky in which he habitually
soaked himself needs no telling. Acting
upon an originally amiable foundation, drink
excites chiefly to maudlin sentimentality,
rarely to violence. Acting upon a brutal
foundation, it arouses the blackest of animal
passions, which grow and grow until
the drunkard himself becomes the mere
slave of them, and differs little, if at all,
from the homicidal madman. To injure
Hurrish in some way, to have him in his
grip, to wreak his vengeance upon him, was
his one thought night and clay ; he lived
upon it, ate, slept, breathed, and grew
drunk upon it. In this direction his ordinarily

sluggish nature was even spurred to
activity, tortures unknown to Ojibeway
Indians, or the familiars of the Inquisition,
flattering his dreams and exciting his
waking thoughts  tortures which he had
inflicted, or was about shortly to inflict,
upon the unconscious Hurrish. That these
imaginings would long ago have been turned
to reality is unquestionable, but for one deterring
fact. Mat Brady  sot though he
was  was enormously strong, capable of
fighting any two other natives of Tub-lamina.
Hurrish O'Brien, however, was
stronger still, and could easily have thrashed
two Mat Bradyss  had, indeed, already administered
condign chastisement on more
than one occasion,  as, for instance, when
that amiable person had waylaid poor
little Alley Sheehan, and frightened her
half out of her innocent life, from sheer
spite of her protector. Then indeed Hurried's
wrath had not been slack, nor his
hand slow to smite !

Even the neighbourhood of Tubbamina 

not a censorious region as regards violent
crimes  was scandalised by Mat Brady's
excesses. He had not atoned either for
his failings in this direction by any marked
virtue in another. His ill - temper and
brutish misanthropy had kept him from
sharing the predominant excitements and
dangerous councils of his neighbours. He
was not a member of any secret society 
nay. was even suspected of having been more
than once 'tampered with by the enemy,
though of this there was no actual proof.

What more perhaps than anything else
infuriated him with Hurrish, was the indifference
with which, as a general rule, that
good - natured individual regarded his proceedings.
Toleration is not at all an Irish
characteristic, and is perhaps the mental
attitude which an Irishman of the baser
sort least endures or forgives in an antagonist.
Abuse him, curse him  he answers you
with curses readier and more fluent than
your own, then goes his way, and forgets
the matter. Pass over his attack in pity or

VOL. I. M

contempt, and lie will bear you a grudge to
the last hour of your life.

His determination to take the vacant Maloney
farm had originated wholly in the
desire to come to close quarters with his
enemy,  hate of this burning kind, like love
itself, not easily brooking distance from its
object. That farm "marched" with Hurried's
; and the opportunities which a possessor
of it would enjoy for harming and
generally annoying that hated individual,
filled his soul with spasms of ferocious delight.
That he already occupied more ground than
he was capable of working, and that the
farm  even at the low rent at which it was
offered  would be a loss rather than a gain
to him, was nothing. Such trifling considerations
were not even weighed in the balance.
Mat Brady would have parted with
every shilling he possessed in the world,
and have brought himself to the workhouse
or the emigrant-ship, if by that means he
could only at last have wreaked his rage
upon Hurrish.

They were not safe times for a man 
no matter with how purely private a motive
 to take a farm from which another
had been evicted. No popularity, no previous
reputation for virtue or patriotism,
would have made it a safe proceeding, and
Brady had neither popularity nor virtuous
reputation to intercede upon his behalf.
The very day after he had formally taken
possession, and had had his cattle driven
into their new pasture, an enormous skull
and cross-bones were found rudely daubed in
black and white upon the wall which divided
his old and new farm ; and stepping out
of his cabin-door early the following morning,
he had all but stumbled into a sinister-looking
trench, dug in the night across the
path, and almost touching the threshold. It
was as significant as the unstrung bow-string
of the Chinese emperor, and not less likely to
be followed by serious consequences.

With the one deadness of your thoroughgoing
hater, Brady set down both these demonstrations
solely to Hurrish's account.

Hurrish hated him ; Hurrish would do anything
to spite him ; Hurrish, he was convinced,
would kill him if he could ; the only
chance of preventing him from doing so,
was by himself first killing Hurrish,  the
whole question, to his mind, narrowed itself
to that.

Like every Irishman of his class  whether
Coercion Acts are in force or whether they
are not  he had an old gun hidden away in
the thatch of his cabin. This gun he now
took down, and occupied his leisure moments
in cleaning, scouring, and oiling it,
and preparing bullets out of stray bits of
old lead laid by with some such purpose.
He even took the trouble of carrying it one
afternoon under his coat to the top of ,
the conical-shaped hill in which
the valley ended, and there, safely shrouded
by the loneliness, practising at a patch of
lichen on a rock, so that, when the occasion
arose, his hand might be safe and his revenge
sure.

All this he was able to do with the more

ease that he was quite alone in the cabin
his ferocious temper rendering it impossible
for any one else to inhabit it with
him, even had he desired such company.
His brother was away at Miltown-Malbay ;
the two men whom he employed upon the
farm had cabins of their own ; even the beggars,
who find gratuitous food and lodging
at every cabin they pass, hurried silently
past Mat Brady's door, so effectively had his
brutal reputation shielded him from demands
which no poverty, however abject, is held in
Ireland to be any excuse from exercising.

When his day's work was over, he got into
the habit of every evening betaking himself
to that group of ruined oratories which, as
the reader will remember, lay upon the verge
of the two farms, and there, coiled up in one
of the cells built for the purposes of devotion,
with his loaded gun held between his
knees, he would spend long hours watching,
waiting, on the mere chance of some accident
bringing his hated enemy within his
reach.

More than once he fell asleep at his post,
and awoke in the grey of the morning,
cramped, miserable, a prey to all the horrors
of the habitual drunkard who, for some
purpose, abstains for a while from the familiar
demon. Even then, however, hate
triumphed, and seizing his gun, he would
crawl out of his refuge into the nipping
night air, and stride backwards and forwards
over the rocks, his eyes sweeping to and
fro in the darkness, hungry, as the eyes of
a wild beast are hungry, when it fails to
secure its prey. Twice he went down and
watched the O'Briens' cabin all night, crouched
in the shelter of the little " bohereen" that ran
at the back of it. No opportunity, however,
arose ; Hurrish never appeared, and he was
obliged, when daylight came, to withdraw,
cold, cramped, wretched, and fuller of hatred
than ever, to the shelter of his own cabin.

While he was occupying himself in this
cheerful fashion, his own doom had been decided
upon. Several farms had lately been
reoccupied in the neighbourhood ; an example,

therefore, was badly wanted, and an example,
it was decided, was to be made of him. He
knew the penalty ; he had chosen to act in
opposition to it ; nothing surely could be
simpler or more conclusive. Between the
judicial sentence and the carrying out of an
execution there is apt, however, to be some
delay. Brady was an exceedingly awkward
individual to meddle with, and there was a
general feeling, even amongst the men who
clamoured loudest for his punishment, that
some one else ought to be the person to
carry out the sentence. Why Andy Holo-
hun didn't do it, Peter O'Flannagan, for
instance, couldn't possibly imagine. Andy
was always talking of his hatred of land-robbers,
and here was a land-graver ready
to his hand, yet he showed no disposition
to grapple with him, while Andy was equally
astonished at the unaccountable backwardness
of Peter. So scandalous a want of public
spirit as was exhibited on that occasion
at Tubbamina has rarely, in fact, been paralleled
in the history of Ireland !

Maurice, as it happened, had been away
from Clare during this exciting time, having
been sent to Limerick by the shop to which
he belonged to select light goods for the
approaching season, and it was not therefore
until his return that he learnt what was on
foot. When he did so his wrath was great,
and was directed chiefly against Hurrish,
whom he held to be mainly responsible for
this fresh outburst of popular feeling against
his brother. If Hurrish would have left him
alone, he said to himself, other people would
have done so too. The latter was engaged
a few days later in digging bait in the monologue
spleen, preparatory to an afternoon's
fishing, when, chancing to look up, he saw
Maurice coming towards him over the sands.
The young man looked excited and fierce.
His face was paler than usual, and his red
moustache twirled dangerously.

What's this, Hurrish, 'bout you and
Mat ? " he began at once, in a tone of violent
displeasure.

Hurrish paused in his digging, and stood

still staring at him with unfeigned astonishment.


I dunno as there's any think particular,
Morry," he said mildly, resting one foot
upon the spade while he leaned his weight
upon the other.

"Anything particular! Why, I'm told
there's been a meeting over at Tullalogue at
the Harp of Erin, and a gun bought, and the
lots drawn, and all, and 'tis you as is to do
the job on him."

Hurrish opened his eyes. "Is it a killing
job ye mane ? " he inquired. " Not latin',
nor frightening', nor the likes ov that, but
killing' out an' out ? "

Killing ? Of course ; what would I
mean but killing ? Much Mat would care
for anything else."

Then 'tis the biggest lie ever was would
as big as th' ould Bull Rock out there,"
Hurrish said, slowly. " Sure I haven't been
nigh th' Harp of Iron this month o' Sundays,
nor don't mane neither. That affeer of poor
Buggle turned me stomack  so 't did."

Maurice Brady's wrath was brought to a
sudden standstill. He had come over from
Miltown-Malbay in a towering rage, determined
to have it out with Hurrish ; no one
should meddle with his brother with impunity
! Now, however, he was puzzled. Hurried
was no liar. His manner, too, was quite
inconsistent with the theory of his having
made up his mind to avenge his own and
the community's wrongs upon the common
enemy. It was neither hilarious nor yet
morose, the two invariable concomitants of
such a resolution.

'Tis true all the same, then, whatever
you may say," he answered, doggedly. " It
was one as was there that told me all
about it."

An' how cud it be true, Morry, avick,
whin I tell you 'tis the first word good or
bad I've heard of it, an' have no more intention
of shooting' him either nor ov shooting'
me own mother ? Not but what he deserves
it," he added, parenthetically."

Maurice turned and walked a few steps

off, irritably kicking aside as lie did so the
small round worm casts which mottled the
sand.

Look you here, Hurrish, and mind now
what I'm saying," he said at last, turning
round and speaking in that tone of authority
which he had latterly begun to assume with
his older companion; "I wouldn't have anyone
think I was forgetful  not obliged, I
mean, for anything you did for me when I
was a gos  when I was a boy. At the same
time, I tell you plainly, if you or any one
else, I don't care who the devil 'tis"  (he
was working , himself up into fresh anger
by this time)  " has hand, act, or part in
meddling with my brother Mat, sure as God
is above us I'll have his life ! If there's
justice in Ireland, or out of it, I'll hang him !
God, I will ! I've taken an oath to do it,
and I'm not one to go a-breakin' my oaths.

Sure as we're standing' here, I'll do it, so



now I've given you fair warning. Friend or
enemy, it don't make no matter to me ; I'll
have his life. No one shall have it to say

that lie killed Maurice Brady's brother, and
that he stood by and put up with it ; I'd
die rather than have such a thing said."

There was no affectation about this violence.
Cool-headed as he was, there were certain
things which moved him strongly. Mat as
Mat he cared little about, but Mat as his
brother was a sacred object, and any one
who laid hands on it should assuredly feel
the weight of his revenge.

Hurrish drove the spade which he was still
holding in his hands into the sand, and left
it standing there. He, too, was considerably
excited by the other's passion. It did not
anger him as he would have been angered
by most men's violence ; on the contrary,
he respected the young fellow for taking his
brother's part, sot and irreclaimable savage
though he was. He did not say, as a harsher
or more experienced critic might have done,
that it was because Mat Brady was his
brother  that he belonged to him  that the
young man's egotism was so rampant, that
it extended to anything that touched himself,

however little he might care for it
personally; he simply gave him credit for
his spirit, and for his sense of family obligation
 a trait which always wins respect in
Ireland. If at that moment he could have
made Mat Brady's life absolutely safe, for
Morry's sake he would have done so, despite
his own quarrel with that most obnoxious
of Caliban. He did not see, however,
that there was any way in which such
a consummation could be accomplished.

The buoys is terrible sot again him, there's
no denying' that, Morry," he said, scratching
his head seriously with an air of reflection.
Though I've had nought to do wit their
meeting's, I've hard talk 'bout the country 
plenty. 'Tis an ensample they say 's wanted
last ways, that's what big Moriarty  him
that's back from 'Mercy  says. No good
won't be got for Oireland 't all without thar's
more examples. Dates an' not words is
what's wanting', an' that's what the Laigue's
wanting' too, he says."

' Then he's a d cl fool, and they're alla

pack of d d blundering savages, that's

what they are ! " the young man burst out
fiercely. " Mustn't I know what the Laigue
the League  wants better nor they do ? 
ignorant beasts ! I that am hand and glove
with Mulcahy Donallen, that's own cousin
to Mr Egan, and as safe to be returned
for Ballynagaraty at the next election as if
he was sitting in it ! Tis the blunderingest
thing ever a set of fools did, murdering here,
and murdering there  and what for ? Nothing
but just their own spite and folly and
devilments ! Much they think of the Cause,
the blethering idiots ! If they was to be put
out of it,  strung up here in a row, and
only the decent sensible men left,  it would
be about the best thing could happen to the
country, and so you may tell them, with my
compliments."

(Maurice's eloquence, it will be observed,
had for the moment entirely got the better
of his newly acquired phraseology. But what
eloquence, it may be asked, is worth a rush
that does not do so ?)

Hurrish scratched his head again, puzzled,
yet carried away by his companion's rhetoric.

Well, Morry, ye knows more about it nor
I do, that's certain," he said, in a tone of conviction
; " an' if the Laigue ud only give out
the word to have no more bloodshiddin', nor
maximin' ov baits, nor frightening' ov women,
nor nothing ov that sort all over the country
from this day out, there's not a buoy ud
be gladdened nor myself, so thar wudn't. Anas
to what ye say 'bout Mat, ye may make
yer mind aise so far as I'm concerned. Mean'
Mat has never got on yit. an' we're not
likely for to begin for to do so now, but as
far as his life goes, 'tis as safe for me as if
he were th' holy Father  God forgive me
for saying' such a thing ! Cum what may,
I'll not forget he's your brother, Morry, me
buoy ; for there was ner a one I warmed to
yit as I warmed t' you. An' why not ?  you
that was like a child ov me own, in an' out
allays, and that cute and cliver wel yer
tongue, 'twas a under ; didn't I alius say
from the first we'd be a gran' man? We

mayn't be just so thick now," Hurrish
added, after a pause devoted to reminiscence
; " 'taint surprising', so much as ye're
learned, and such a gentleman born as ye
look  speaking' so fine, 'tis a wonder t'
hear ye  still for me yer the same, Morry
dear, an' wud be if ye was the King ov
all Oireland ! An' as to threatening' t' hav me
hung, an' the likes ov that, sure I know 'tis
the last thing ye mane ! 'Taint that ud be
stopping' me anyhow, but the thought that
't ud be displasin' to you, an' t' Alley, too,
since what's yours is hers. Wudn't I cut off
me own head, an' gladly too, 'fore I'd hurt
either the one or th' tother of ye ? "

Maurice made no immediate reply to this
unusual effort of oratory upon Hurrish's part.
His anger was too fresh to subside readily.
He was somewhat mollified, however, by the
other's words. He had always been proud
of his influence over this big, hot-tempered,
warm-hearted fellow, whom everybody in the
neighbourhood was more or less in awe of
on account of his strength, in spite of its

being qualified by his ordinarily easy-going
disposition. Latterly, it is true, there had
been more irritation than complacency in his
relations towards him  a sort of indulgence
and forbearance on Hurrish's part, which
grated at times against his pride. He had
a feeling that Hurrish under no conceivable
circumstances could be afraid of him, and
Maurice was a man who liked to feel that
he could inspire awe. He was annoyed too
about Alley. Jealousy, under the circumstances,
was, he assured himself, out of the
question, still he felt irritated. That look
of dismay with which his plan of transplantation
had been received by her kept constantly
recurring, and there were not wanting
other incidents which showed Hurrish's
influence to be greater than he considered
it ought to have been. In the end, however,
he made up his mind to accept the latter's
assurances  provisionally, at all events.

All right, Hurrish, 111 take it as you
say," he said, in a tone of somewhat condescending
graciousness. " I know you're

VOL. I. N

fond of me, and, unless you were led away,
you would not wish, I'm sure, to do anything
that was displeasing to me. Shake hands."

They shook hands. Hurrish melted, on
his side, almost to tears by Maurice's goodness.
It gave him the keenest delight to
think that all was once more smooth between
them. He had an admiration, amounting to
absolute worship, for the other, which, when
it inspires an older for a younger man, is
probably far stronger and more deeply rooted
than the other way. He was in a state of
the wildest and most uproarious satisfaction
all that evening, which, but for his known
sobriety, might fairly have given rise to the
most injurious suspicions. Poor Hurrish !
His satisfaction was not long-lived, but, at
least, it was warm and glowing for the time
it lasted. While we are about it, let us,
above all else, give thanks for that veil which
hangs between us and our nearest future.
Were it to be lifted  nay, but an inch or
two  how many of us, I wonder, could confidently
confront our pillows this evening ?

CHAPTER X.

hueeish's crime.

It was the day of the half-yearly fair at
Ballyvaughan, the metropolis, in some sort,
of the Burren. Like a good many other
metropolises, it is not particularly conveniently
situated as regards that area of which
it is the nucleus. Lying upon the sea-shore
to the extreme north of the region, it suggests,
and is, a fishing much more than an
agricultural centre. The straggling single
street sloping directly down to the harbour
consists of some three or perhaps four dozen
whitewashed structures, the more important
ones slated, the rest thatched and overtopped
in summer with a gorgeous nodding crown of
wild-flowers  secum, poppies, snapdragons 
town-gardens of a distinctively Irish pattern f

Hurrish had some calves to dispose of, and
had brought them overnight to Ballyvaughan,
their chance of a good sale being naturally
better if not previously overtired. Feeling
uneasy towards evening as to what might
be taking place at home with Mat Brady
so close at hand, and himself away, he left
the calves in charge of Lep and a herdsman,
and walked all the way back to his
cabin, arriving there about midnight, and
starting again by cock-crow next morning.

Early as it was, every one was astir to give
him his stir about, and see him off. Little
Katty came toddling across the floor from
the other room, half-naked, and rosy with
sleep, and seized him by the flap of his coat,
as he sat upon a low stool hastily devouring
that satisfying condiment.

Dada, bring Katty sugey-shtick," she
whispered, rubbing her little rough head,
like some small tame animal, against his
sleeve, and looking up in his face with an
insinuating grin.

It was an appeal which Hurrish, even at

his busiest, could never resist. He picked
Miss Katty up on his knee, and gave hera
mouthful of the stir about, by way perhaps
of an instalment.

Sugey-shtick invade ! git out wit ye,
yer imprint Kitteen," he said, admiringly.
D'ye think yer dada has nought to do but
be going' round the town getting' you sugar-sticks
! Be aff this instant minute,"  he set
her down and got up himself, taking his
blackthorn from where it was lounging at
ease against a corner of the wall as he
passed.

Katty however was not to be daunted.
With a crow of delight, she trotted after him
to the door, where she again repeated her
demand, laying hold of the formidable blackthorn
as she did so to enforce it.

Alley, Alley Sheehan ! Och, Alley, cum
quick ! I'm felt ! I'm catched ! sure I won't
be able to get away to Bally vaughan the
day ! Kitteen's a holding ov me !  Och,
wirrastrue, wirrastrue, what will I do at all, at
all?" he exclaimed, pretending to shake the

stick violently, while the child capered and
shrieked with delight at the other end of it.

Alley ran to the rescue, and picked up
Katty, still capering and shouting, in her
arms. Hurrish, however, delayed yet a
minute longer to kiss the little red and
brown face thus brought nearer to a level
with his own.

Maybe 111 be seen Morry over bryant,"
he whispered, with a glance towards
his mother, who was still by the fire. " Have
ye ere a bit ov message for him, Alley
'cushla?"

Alley did not immediately answer. She
twisted the stocking she had been knitting
around the needles, so as to keep their
points from Miss Katty 's wriggling pink
legs, and looked down.

I dun know as I have, Hurrish, an' I
dun know as he'd care 'bout wan either,"
she said, not coquettishly, but seriously.

Hurrish looked disturbed.

Blur an' agers, Alley, don't be saying' such
things ! " he said, in a tone of eager remonstrance.

" Sure the pore buoy lus ye as he
lus his own soul ! he lus yer very shady
on the rocks, as any wan wit half an oye can
see. Yer thinking', I repose, he's a bit heady
these times  that's what's in yer mind.
But after all what wonder ?  so much as he's
thought ov  every wan in the whole country
running after him, an' consulting' wit
him !  Sure if he wasn't a trifle 'bove his-self
't wud be unnatural. But he's the
good heart Morry has, an' that's at the
bottom ov all. He's not like one ov thin
party boughs, so sit up whin they get a
bit 'bove themselves that there is no holding'
thin  like an ass-cart wit a new sate, that
takes itself for a coach-and-four  that proud,
the spalpeens, they wudn't stop and spake
to the mother that bore thin ! But Morry's
not that sort, civil a bit. He's the good
heart, an' that's everything in this mortal
world ! "

Alley sighed. Hurrish must know best,
she thought, but still 

The fact is, yer altogether too young an'

ignorant, Alley, to understand the grandeur
there is in Morry, an' that's the truth,"
Hurrish went on, in a tone of lofty superiority.
" There is not the equal of him in
Clare  no, nor in twenty counties round, so
there isn't. He'll be a gran' man yet, as I've
teller ye often, just you wait an' see if he
isn't  the top an' king of thin all ! An'
thin sure 'tis yourself '11 be gran' too ! Truth,
't il be a wonder if ye spake to any ov us
'tall!"

Alley smiled a little, but rather sadly.
I don't want wan bit for to be gran," she
said, almost tearfully.

Och, Alley ashore, what's cum d'ye 't
all ? I know the most of the colleges does be
allays changing' and chopping' ov their minds,
like the sky, that's blue wan minute an' rid
the next, but I thought you was bettered
nor to go on wit such work. Don't ye know
right well that 'tis wicked to be chopping' an'
changing' yer mind wit a man ? Is it breaking'
his heart ye want wit such talk ? "

Alley made no reply. She looked up at

Hurrisli earnestly for a minute, as if about
to speak. Then, with a sudden blush, she
turned away, and appeared to be absorbed in
arranging Miss Katty's disarranged garment
a somewhat complicated task, one of that
young lady's fat brown legs having just succeeded
in getting through a considerable
aperture in her little red flannel petticoat.

Satisfied that his exhortation had had its
due effect, Hurrish pursued his way, turning
up Gortnacoppin, alongside of its milky torrent,
fed by the violent rain of the day
before. It was a lovely morning. The
sun was still low, and the rocks which overhung
the path flung heavy violet shadows
before his feet. Everything seemed to be
either violet or blue,  a sort of spiritualised
blue, such as these desolate limestone regions
sometimes show in clear weather.
The wet places, where a slow ooze crept
over the rocks, showed a faintly blueish
iridescence, the blue-grey sheets of rock, the
grey-blue sweeps of sky, the blue-grey sweeps
of Atlantic  it was all steeped in light, penetrated

with light, pathetic, solitary, ethereal
a spiritualised world, fitted, one would say,
for anchorites and pious souls " enjoyed and
sainted," whose traffic is less with this warm
substantial earth of ours than with the unfamiliar
heavens.

Hurrish, his thoughts filled chiefly now
with his calves, tramped on, his shadow
flinging itself in exaggerated bigness upon
the weather-worn surfaces, his iron-studded
shoes awaking sharp echoes upon the level
rocks. Trailing branches of pale pink spiny
rose dangled out of the crevices overhead ;
masses of blood-red cranes-bill dotted the
pale grey sheets of limestone, and the dwarfed
bushes of hawthorn which rose out of the
stony dykes were white with blossom.

He had reached the amphitheatre where
the oratories stood, and where the stream
disappears with a great rushing, bubbling
noise into the bowels of the earth, when his
eye was caught by a large object, conspicuously
white amongst the surrounding greyness,
lying close to a reddish granite boulder,

raised, as many of these iceberg-dropped
foreign " boulders are, upon a foot or
stalk of limestone, which, protected by its
cover, has remained intact, while the rock
surrounding it has been gradually worn
away.

Striding up to the spot, he discovered that
the white object was no other than a sheep,
one of his own sheep, stark, stiff, and
dead, a hideous gash across its innocent
white throat telling out too plainly how it
had come by its end.

Hurrish loved his beasts, not merely for
their money value, but with that natural
liking of a warm-hearted man for anything
living that he calls his own. Next to his
children, to Maurice Brady, and Alley, they
were, perhaps, the things he cared most for
in the world. A hot tide of anger rushed
through his veins, and his cheerful, open face
grew suddenly red and corrugated with passion,
as he looked fiercely round in search
of the perpetrator of the deed. As usual,
however, none was to be seen.

He was still standing there looking down
at the dead beast, when he was startled by a
slight but significant sound. The thin clear
whistle of a bullet whizzed past close to his
head, and the next second the bullet itself
fell flattened off the granite boulder beside
him, while, at the same moment, the solitary
valley rang with the report of a gun.

Hurrish started upright, and, with an instinct
of self-preservation, ran to the other
side of the boulder, thus putting it between
himself and the direction from which the
shot had come. He was only just in time !
Another bullet whizzed by, grazing his
shoulder as it did so, striking against the
rock, and again falling deadened at his feet,
while again the report resounded through
the silence, dying away only when it had
crossed the watershed, a faint prolonged
echo returning with a hollow boom from the
valley beyond.

Although a minute before the valley had
seemed bare as a man's hand, no idea of
supernatural agency on this occasion occurred

to his brain. Leprehauns and ghosts are
known to throw stones, and even to upset
curates, but no one, even in Connaught, has
ever heard of their firing a gun ! The question
which now arose was, how was he to
look round the corner of the boulder without
thereby offering a mark to the enemy who
had twice missed him so narrowly ? A
sudden idea struck him. Stooping down to
where the boulder was raised, as already
explained, upon a limestone foot or pedestal,
in the same way that a mushroom is raised
by its stalk, he peeped through the worn-away
space below, and was thus able to
command the whole of the valley before
him. Straight in front lay the little group
of oratories, the oblique rays of the rising sun
gleaming upon their low grey roofs, and upon
the white cross set as a pious symbol above
the tiny doorway, and, underneath this white
cross, in the very doorway itself of the one
nearest to him, he saw a face  the red,
repulsive, baboon-like face of Mat Brady
peering out as an animal's face peers from

its lair, the light catching upon the barrel
of a gun which he held in his hands.

Hurrish's indolent, good-tempered soul was
roused to fury in a moment at this sight.
Mat Brady it was, then, that had fired at
him ! Mat equally of course that had killed
his sheep ! Mat, whom he had spared a
dozen times after the most outrageous provocations
! Mat, who, by the unwritten laws
of the neighbourhood, stood condemned to
death ! It was the quarry attacking the
hunter  the criminal assaulting his judge ;
the last drop in the long gathering cup of
wrath ! All the man's previous provocations
rushed through his brain in a single fiery
moment, as a flame rushes through a pile of
inflammable materials. Every other consideration,
 his own desire to avoid quarrels
his recent promise to Maurice,  everything
went for nothing before that suddenly uprisen
fire of vengeance. Clutching the
blackthorn in his hand, and utterly heedless
of the danger to himself, he rushed from
behind his defence, up the hill, over the

steep rocks, springing across the fissures,
straight upon the little pious hermitage,
with its innocent small white cross, and
that hideous brutalised face in the middle
of its ruined doorway.

The suddenness of the impulse proved his
salvation. If Mat Brady had kept calm, now
was his opportunity. He had not provided,
however, against the emergency. His gun
was unloaded, and, being a muzzle-loader, required
time to recharge. Unarmed, he was, ashe
well knew, no match for Hurrish. Panic
seized his soul, and he sprang from his lair
and turned to flee. To scramble through that
narrow doorway, however, took time. Hardly
had he got himself free from it, and begun
to ascend the stony incline, before Hurrish's
step was close at his heels, Hurrish's voice
sounded in his ears. Then, like a beast, he
turned at bay, and like a beast's was the face
which presented itself,  the lowering brow,
the huge jaw, the mouth distorted and gnashing
with rage and terror ! A hideous sight 
to dream of, not to tell  a man in the likeness

of a beast, worse than the very ugliest
variety with hoofs or claws.

His gun being useless in any other way,
he tried to club it : before he had time todo
so, however, Hurrish had struck it out of
his hands, and the next instant " crash," with
one sweeping, annihilating blow, the blackthorn
had descended like a sledge-hammer
full upon his head,  not on the top, where
the thickness of skull would have defied any
blow, but a little to one side, full on the
temple  that part, owing to the position of
his head, having come uppermost ; and with
an oath, strangled in its very utterance, Mat
Brady fell backwards, and lay at full length
upon the ground, his head striking against
a rock with a dull hideous thud as he descended.


Hurrish remained where he was  the blackthorn
ready for action  waiting to see him rise.
He would not strike even Mat Brady when
he was down. Minute followed minute, however,
and still no sign of life. The echoes
awakened by the struggle died slowly away,

as a roughened circle dies upon a still pool.
The uncouth body lay there quietly at his
feet like a log that had been felled for burning.
Could he be shamming death ? Why did he
not get up ? What was the meaning of it ?
That the man could be dead, or even badly
hurt, did not at first occur to him. Death
from a single blow of a stick is almost unknown,
particularly in Ireland, where the
weapon is in much repute and constant practice.
He was stunned simply  "knocked
silly,"  and would get up again in another
minute. He waited accordingly, expecting
to see the chest begin to heave, the eyes
to open, the hands to clench themselves 
waited and waited. Minute slowly followed
minute, but still Mat Brady neither stirred
nor showed any signs of returning animation.

Puzzled, and rather startled, Hurrish at
length stooped down over the fallen man, took
hold of him by an arm, and lifted him into a
sitting position. His head fell back, however,
limply upon one shoulder, the other hand
and arm hung down helplessly at his side,

vol. i. o

his eyes, partially opened, looked up at the
sky with a hideous distorted expression, but
without any sign of life. A cold sense of
discomfort began to creep over the other.
He had seen dead men before  men, too,
who had come to their deaths by violent
means,  and he began to have an uneasy
suspicion that this one before him closely
resembled them ; an uneasy recollection, too,
that his own arm had come down with very
unmistakable velocity.

Laying Mat Brady down upon the rock,
he sped back to the stream, and returned
with his felt hat full of water, which he
dashed into his late adversary's face, then
waited anxiously to see the effect. There
was no effect at all ! The water poured off
the man's face as it would off a stone : not
the twinkle of an eyelid, not the slightest
quivering motion, followed the experiment.
The sudden collapse of that mass of animal
strength, a few minutes ago so brimful of
life and of vindictive passion, had something
terrifying about it. It was so utterly unexpected,

that there seemed to Hurrisli to be
something uncanny, almost supernatural,
about it,  like the trick of an evil goblin.
The unbroken silence of the stony amphitheatre,
too, was appalling. Had there been
any one to share the situation, it would not
have been nearly so bad. It was not the
mere fact of Brady being killed, so much as
the whole circumstances,  the suddenness,
the uncharitableness of the phenomena,
that quelled him. He felt daunted,
as if a cold hand had been unexpectedly
laid upon him in the height of his
passion.

What was to be done ? that was the next
question. If Mat Brady was really dead 
and it must be owned that it looked uncomfortably
like it,  then his own safety must
be provided for. What was he to do ?
Where was he to go ? As to giving himself
voluntarily up to the authorities, and explaining
the unintentionally of the homicide,
 that idea, needless to say, did not
occur to him for a moment. It would have

been repugnant to every sentiment of his
class, in whose eyes the law is the Archenemy,
 the one thing which it behoves
every man, in honour no less than in self-defence,
to avoid having any dealings with.
There was a rule, however, for such cases
a very well established and habitually
followed one. This rule was quietly to
walk away, and betake yourself to your customary
occupations as rapidly as possible,
leaving to the next passer-by the duty
of finding the body, raising the hue and
cry, and sending, if he thought fit, for the
police.

Hurrish smiled grimly to himself as he
thought of the police. Much good they would
do ! The strong arm of the law, the first
thing that a man so circumstanced in almost
any other country in the world would have
thought of, was the last that troubled him.
He thought of his own people,  what they
would say and think. His mind glanced to
his mother, and a sudden intense disgust
filled him as he thought of her satisfaction

; of Alley, and he caught his breath
in a prayer that she, at least, might never
know his share in the deed. Then he thought
of Maurice, and with that thought followed
a rush of grief  of grief so violent that it
seemed to tear its way through the man's
whole body. What hould Morry say ? What
would he do ? It was not fear for himself
which prompted the thought. It was the
bitterness of feeling that he had been betrayed
into doing the very thing that he had
sworn to Morry that for his sake he would
never do, or allow, if possible, any one else todo.
When he remembered the promise given
only one short week before, he felt like dashing
his own brains out then and there against
the rocks. Not that he believed for an instant
in any of those threats which the other had
uttered. That Maurice, despite his own
solemn declarations to that effect, would
dream of denouncing him to the Government,
was an idea which did not so much
as cross his brain. To one of his bringing
up it would, in fact, have seemed the one

impossible thing ; the thing which  no matter
with what excuse, or under what provocation
 no man could do without being
branded as a traitor throughout the remainder
of his life. It was entirely the personal
joint of view, the personal relations between
their two selves, that made him miserable.
The thought that he and Morry could never
be friends again,  never, never in all
their lives,  nearly drove him mad. He
had no hope either that he would fail to
recognise his handiwork,  nay, he would
almost have preferred that he should know
it. That remorse and bitter accusing self-reproach
which, as regards the dead man,
hardly troubled him at all, he felt acutely, 
as acutely as any man so circumstanced could
feel it,  as regards the dead man's brother.
He would have given all that he possessed,
or ever hoped to possess in the world, to
bring Mat Brady back to life again,  not for
his own sake, not the least from any sense of
the innate sinfulness of the deed, not even
from any dread of the possible consequences

to himself, but solely and wholly for the sake w
of his promise to Morry.

Odd thoughts, you will say, for a homicide !
for one whom the law, could it lay its hands
upon him, would unhesitatingly proclaim a
murderer ; but they were none the less the
first that did occur to him. An anomalous
state of affairs begets, no doubt, anomalous
ideas, and, as far as remorse went, Hurrish's
ideas were pretty much those which would
have passed through the brain of any other
man in his position, even where provocation
had not made his act to some extent excusable
 nay, even where there had been no
provocation at all.

Meanwhile there was the recognised rule,
and to have a prescribed rule to follow is
always an immense comfort and repose to
the mind. With a calmness which, to those
unacquainted with so abnormal a state of
affairs, would have seemed incredible, he left
the body and walked leisurely down the hill,
crossing the dead man's own ground as he did
so. He did not even think of breaking into

216 Hurls : A STUDY.

pieces or otherwise destroying the stick with
which the deed had been committed. He
simply thrust it into the heart of a large
furze bush, the first he passed, pulled his
coat down, buttoned it over his shirt, which
was slightly stained by his own wound,
brushed off the mud and dirt which had
adhered to him, felt along his neck to make
sure that the wound was not of a sufficiently
serious character to signify, then  without
another glance at the dead man  walked
away across the slope, and up the sheep-track
leading towards the high-road. Then
remembering that it might be as well not
to be seen there at that precise moment,
particularly as he would shortly have to
pass a police - barrack  he turned to the
left, threading his way between a number
of boulders standing on end one behind the
other, crossed the base of a hill,  its name,
to be topographically accurate, was ,
 keeping its ridged mass
between him and the road. Then  still
keeping away from the main route  he

struck off toward the sea, under a tall,
nearly vertical sweep of cliff, and along a
track which would bring him in time, he
knew, to Ballyvaughan.

When within about four miles of his destination,
what with the heat of the sun and
his rapid walking, perhaps, too, a little with
the emotions of the morning, he began to
grow thirsty, so turned aside at Grleninagh
to have a drink out of the famous well
there. It was approached by a couple of
stone steps, and covered over with an arch
surmounted by a cross. Hurrish hastily
climbed the steps, and taking up a vessel,
left benevolently for the service of passers-by,
drank long and thirstily. He was in the
act, having done so, of putting the drinking-cup
down again, when he suddenly perceived,
with some dismay, that it was a skull ;
another and much older one, of which this
was evidently the successor, lay a little way
off on the ledge, half covered with green
mould. It was not exactly a pleasant incident,
especially to one whose morning's work

had been what Hurrish's had been ! It was
a comfort, however, to reflect there was
nothing actually unlucky about it. On the
contrary, skulls were formerly, and in some
places are still, considered absolutely indispensable
to the proper efficaciousness of a
holy well. By the time he reached Bally-vaughan,
Hurrish, at any rate, had nearly
forgotten the incident. The fair was drawing
to an end, so there was no time to lose,
and in the course of ten minutes he found
himself engaged in a brisk chaffer with a
gentleman from Mayo, a large grazier, who
wanted to get the whole of his stock of
calves at at least nine shillings a-head under
what their owner considered their value, 
Burren calves fetching, as every one knows,
better prices than those of any other district
in Ireland.

Not merely was he not alarmed, but
save when he thought of his promise to
Morry  Hurrish was not even particularly
disturbed by his morning's work. He had
not, of course, intended to kill Mat Brady,

and ill cold blood would never, under any
circumstances, have done so. But this had
been far from cold blood. The man had
shot at him deliberately and treacherously
from behind shelter, and, armed only with
his trusty blackthorn, he had rushed upon
him, struck down his defences, had brought
the stick down  once  once only  upon his
head. He had not even struck him again.
That first sledge-hammer blow had done the
work, and the man had fallen. To a great
degree it was an accident, for who would
ever have believed that a single blow, however
delivered, would have struck the life
out of that great powerful man-mountain ?
Hurrish knew nothing, it need hardly be
said, about the mechanism of the human
anatomy, but in blind rage, without calculation
or thought at all, he had, as chance
directed, brought his stick down upon the
one spot in that huge mass of strength
where life could have been extinguished by
such a blow  as a hunter by good fortune
may chance with his first bullet to reach the

one vulnerable spot in the carcass of some
brute, which would otherwise have gored
him to death. It had been the work of
chance,  perhaps even of Providence,  and
as such he accepted it modestly, without any
self-glorification, beyond the habitual satisfaction
he found in his own strength, but
certainly without an iota of that horror,
dismay, and personal remorse which would
have filled the breast of a man less inured
to hearing of deeds of violence. He even
forgot it by moments, when the bargaining
grew brisk and exciting ; and although, when
the calves were all sold, and his hands for
the moment unoccupied, it rushed back upon
him with vivid realisation, it was less with
a sense of horror than with a feeling that
a new epoch of his life had been reached,
an important turning-point which it behoved
him to guard carefully, so that he might not
be led away by this one act into sharing
others where the justification might be less
clear.

Before the reader resolves to be utterly

disgusted with this callousness, and to dismiss
Hurrish O'Brien once and for ever asa
monster of brutality, he must first kindly
consent to take the circumstances of his
life a little into consideration. We are all
children of our environment  the good no
less than the bad,  products of that particular
group of habits, customs, traditions,
ways of looking at things, standards of
right and wrong, which chance has presented
to our still growing and expanding
consciousness. Hurrish's history must so far
have been very imperfectly told if it has not
been realised that he was well disposed and
kindly above the average ; pitiful, and disposed
to use his strength for good rather
than evil. Yet the fact that he had just
been guilty, no matter with what justification,
of another's death did not  nay,
could not  present itself to his mind with
any of that sharply - defined horror, that
passion of self-dismay and self-reproach, that
it would have awakened in the mind of
many a far less kindly and, in his way,

conscientious man, who had been unused
to hearing violence and bloodshed spoken of
as the natural panacea for all the disagreements
which may happen to arise between
man and man. He would rather it had
not happened,  when he thought of Morry
and his promise to him,  very much rather.
But as unfortunately it had happened, he
resolved in his own mind that, as soon as
ever he could w T with safety to himself, he
would pay for masses to be said for the
repose of Mat Brady's soul  feeling that
he w r as certainly acting generously ; for had
not Brady been the aggressor ? had he
not come out that morning with the express
purpose of killing himself?  an intention
which only the merest accident had
hindered him from carrying out. Moreover,
if the matter had ended the other way,
and he, Hurrish, been the one to have been
killed, he felt perfectly convinced that Mat
Brady would never for a moment have
thought of having masses offered up for
the repose of his soul !

CHAPTER XL

alley's punishment.

That horror and self - disgust which he
was incapable of feeling for the act itself
would probably have been strongly  nay,
passionately  aroused, could Hurrish have
foreseen the circumstances under which
Mat Brady's body was destined to be discovered.


Early the same day, Bridget O'Brien's turkeys
had taken it into their heads, as they
had often done before, to stray away in a
body from the house ; and about an hour
after the deed had been committed, and
when Mat Brady's body was beginning to
get rigid and cold on its stony bed, Alley
Sheehan was walking leisurely up the Gort-

nacoppin path, and approaching nearer and
nearer to the fatal spot.

Poor little Alley ! She was enjoying her
stroll in the warm sunshine, and thinking
no harm of any one. She had driven the turkeys
away from the vicinity of the stream,
and they were now innocently engaged in
pecking at the small white moths which rose
in crowds from the trefoil growing upon
the rocks, so that she felt she could safely
linger a little out of reach of Bridget's eye.
She picked a bunch of white mountain dryad
and crimson cranes-bill, and tied them together
with a wither, telling herself as she
did so that they were for the children. She
had so little idea that beauty was a thing
admirable in itself, that she would probably
have given a denial to any one who had
asked her whether she took pleasure in the
arrangement of these vividly contrasting
colours, set off, as they were, with a big
feathery handful of adiantum, growing more
luxuriously in those deep-sheltered recesses
than in many a carefully tended hothouse.

The day had changed since Hurrish had
come up the path, and the holy calm of
morning had been suddenly killed by the
sound of strife. The pearly light had given
way to a broad serenity, rare in that storm-driven
region. Not that the sky was cloudless.
A great line of snowy cumuli, united
at their bases, clear in the upper portion of
their summits, was drifting slowly over the
open spaces of sea and collecting in white
packs upon the horizon. Against this opaque
whiteness the three isles of Aran stood outwith
unusual distinctness ; the circular mass
of Dun iEngus  greatest and most famous
of all surviving paths  showing its grey and
broken circle upon the highest point of all.

Alley had too much of the Celtic Eolian-harp
temperament not to be influenced by
the character of the clay and scene. With
her it usually took the more direct form of
devotion. Her pure, singularly transparent
spirit seemed to float away in visions of faith
and tenderness, which her very ignorance 
if you will superstition  only made the wider

VOL. i. p

and the more embracing. Certain types
repeat themselves eternally at all ages of the
world, and hers was the type of all those
gentle ascetic natures which at every period
and under all variations of circumstances
have sprung up spontaneously. There had
probably been Alley Sheehans here in Burren
ages before this one had been born, for these
stony fastnesses, with the neighbouring ones
of Aran, had for centuries been the resort
of the pure, the pious, the pitiful, who
had succeeded in escaping from that pandemonium
of carnage which year after year,
and century after century, had made the
rest of the island a fit habitation only for
some blood-besmeared rabble of hell.

What she would have done had her lot
been cast in a different communion, it is
difficult even to imagine. It was the central
heart of that creed  that mother who is the
type of all motherhood  which drew her
and kept her upwards. Her prayers, those
she used on non-official occasions, were an
odd medley  half self-invented, and as elementary,

therefore, as the cooing of a wood-pigeon,
half made up of, to her, nearly
incomprehensible fragments from the slowly
elaborated ritual of Christendom. She possessed
a little tattered ' Key to Heaven,'
which, like the rosary, had belonged to her
mother, and which she took to chapel with
her on Sunday. The greater part of this
work was as dark to her as if it had been
written in Latin or Hebrew. Here and
there, however, she managed to pick off a
scrap, as a building bird pulls a leaf off a
tree. There was the anthem and litany to
our Lady of Lorenzo, for instance, which, by
dint of much repetition, had acquired a sort
of meaning  not its own meaning, doubtless,
but something that did just as well, possibly
even better. Whenever Alley knelt
down to pray, a bit, from long habit, seemed
to spring to her lips. First, perhaps, a bit
of the anthem  " Despise not thou our
prayers, but deliver us from all dangers,
ever glorious and blessed Virgin ! " Then
the invocation, "Mother most pure, Mother

most chaste, Mother undefiled, Mother most
admirable  Mary, mother, pray for us ! Seat
of wisdom, Cause of our joy, Mystical Rose,
Flower of David, Gate of Heaven, Morning
Star, Health of the weak, Refuge of Sinners,
Comforter of all the afflicted  Holy Mary
mother, pray for us ! "

There was something about all these
grand words which gave little Alley a distinct
feeling of pleasurable excitement, for,
like most of her countrymen and countrywomen,
she had an ear for the sonorous,
and they were about the nearest thing to
poetry she had ever heard. Her own mental
pictures of the same gracious image were
very different, however,  at once clearer and
less definite. They had caught some of their
traits, no doubt, from the prints and images
at Tubbamina chapel, but were mixed up
besides with the sun and the stars, the sea
where it was calm, the flowers in the cracks
of the rocks  a vague brooding image, unformed,
yet real enough too to herself. Sometimes,
when she had been sitting a long time

quite alone, this realisation would grow curiously,
nay even starting vivid, so vivid
that if a white form had come slowly towards
her over the level rocks, and a face
the face which every painter has tried to
paint  had looked down gently at her with
its eyes of pity, she would have felt more
awe and wonder than actual astonishment.
In trouble especially her instinct was to fly
to this refuge, as a small frightened creature
flies instinctively to its sheltering-place. She
was very troubled now about Maurice Brady,
and Hurrish's last words had brought this
trouble into a sort of focus. She had never
put it to herself whether she loved Maurice
enough to marry him, for that was not the
form which her reflection took, but she did
ask herself what would become of her if she
went on being so dreadfully afraid of him
as she had lately been. When he had informed
her that he intended to make her
his wife, she had simply been pleased without
thinking much about it; she had been
only sixteen at the time, and young even for

that not very advanced age. That was two
years ago, however, and two years had taught
her a good deal. She was not given to introspection
 that, happily, not being one of
the vices of the class to which she belonged ;
but none the less she had a feeling that
it would not be well for her and Maurice
to marry. She admired him, wondered
at him, was proud of him, but in her
heart of hearts she was aware that she
shrank from his approach. Fear  even ina
minor degree  is, to one of her gentle
timorous nature, the worst probably of sensations,
and it was one that she never could
entirely get over with him. He was so
authoritative, so hard, clear, decided in all
his notions. That cold vein of egotism, too,
which was an integral part of his nature,
had made itself more clearly felt in their
tete-a-tetes than at other times. The unknown
is always invested with a mysterious
terror in minds as naive as hers, and
Maurice's life, plans, objects, ambitions, and
future, were all alike utterly unreliable to

her imagination. She had a feeling that in
marrying him she embarked upon a new
life, one for which her previous one had
by no means fitted her,  that many things
might be required of her that she did not
feel able to respond to, and from which
she shrank back as a child shrinks from
an unknown brink. She had no ambition 
not even for fine clothes ; she liked what
she knew, and what she felt herself capable
of understanding. This wild Burren  grim
as it would have seemed to most people  had
wound itself round her heart, as the first environment
it has known does wind round a
young impressionable nature, especially in
one of her race. The little dells where the
grass grew thick and rich ; the wells full
of offerings to their respective saints ; the
rifts into which she could plunge her hands,
and bring them up filled with flowers ;
the isles of Aran opposite, where the saints
used to live, and at which she looked inconsequence
with such reverence ; the wild
clearness of the sea, and great environing

arch of sky  Hurrisli's kind face, which
seemed a part of it all. If Maurice would
only agree to settle in some small cabin,
quite close to Hurrisli's, where she could
see him every day, without having to be
ordered about by old Bridget, then indeed,
she thought, she would be quite happy, and
not one bit afraid to marry him at once !

She had reached the point where the valley
opened into an amphitheatre, and the
cluster of beehive oratories rose solitary in
the hollow, when she all at once remembered
that this part of the valley was now no longer
Mick Maloney's, but Mat Brady's property.
Alley's terror of Mat Brady amounted to
monomania. Never could she forget the day,
now more than a year ago, when, happening
by ill-luck to pass close to his cabin, the great
red-headed, half-tipsy Caliban had suddenly
darted out of it and had pursued her over the
rocks. How she had run, and how he had followed
faster than she could escape, and how
he had caught her, and held her fast, swearing
at her for her terror, and exhaling a

portentous smell of rank whisky ! It is true
that he did not actually hurt her. He was
not, perhaps, even as brutal at bottom as
many an English, certainly as many a French
yahoo of the same mental calibre would have
been; but he frightened and sickened the
fragile girl with the horror of his presence,
with the sense of her own powerlessness under
the grip of his hand, by his loud voice, and
coarse, grinning, baboon-like face so close to
her own. It was like some delicate domesticated
half-humanised bird or animal in the
clutch of a wild ferocious specimen of its own
species, whose wrath it has evoked and knows
not how to allay. She had trembled like a
leaf, and had implored him with tears to release
her, which he for a long time had refused
to do. At last, however, her tears and
terror bad had their effect, or he had not
known what else to do, for, with a laugh of
brutal triumph, he had flung her away so
violently as almost to throw her down. Now,
as she remembered that dreadful day and her
own sensations, she glanced nervously round,

fearing to see the uncouth figure of the detested
Brady. No, thank God, there was no
one in sight, and she breathed more easily.
Poor little gentle Alley !

Her glance was passing away, and in
another moment would have reverted to the
flowers. But what  what was that on the
ground?  huddled together like a heap of
seaweed ? At first it seemed to her to be
merely a bundle of clothes,  some man had
left his coat there, probably, while he was at
work. It was too large, however, for that, she
perceived on a second glance. There was a
boot, too  why should a man leave his boots
behind him ? The boot was so twisted and
shapeless that it did not occur to her at first
that there could be a foot in it. Still, she
found herself looking at it with growing
feelings of bewilderment and suspicion  that
vague sense of something amiss which often
precedes the actual certainty.

All at once her blood seemed to stand still,
her heart to send great thuds upward to
her throat ; her knees knocked, her breath

failed, and she almost fell to the ground
with horror. It was only a hand she saw,
a large lividly white hand sticking out of
the side of the bundle of clothes,  a hand
flung, back downwards, upon the ground,
the fingers hanging loose and half hidden in
the grass and daisies. Poor Alley's very soul
seemed to cleave together and die away with
horror at the sight, the innocent grey rock
and grasses to turn black and yawn suddenly
under her feet, as if an earthquake had passed
over Gortnacoppin. With the unwilling
fascination of horror she looked and looked
again at the horrible object, and now she
could see a face  a grey distorted face 
which seemed to be gazing up at her with its
dull dead eyes. The lower part of this face
was hidden by the shoulder against which
it had fallen, but the eyes were wide open,
and over them hung a mass of red hair 
hair surely familiar to her ? More than this
Alley did not stay to see. The cup of horror
was already full and brimming over ; to
escape was her only thought.

With a shriek  the shriek of a creature
in extremest terror  she tore madly down
the valley in the direction of the cabin. To
get within reach of some other living human
being, to escape from the dreadful sight of
those dead eyes, was her only desire. It
seemed to her terrified imagination as if that
formless, hideous thing that had been a man,
had risen too from where it had lain, and
was following her  nay, was gaining step
by step upon her. On and on she ran, and
always as she ran, there, close behind, she felt
it still, always in the same attitude as before,
yet somehow moving faster than she could,
and gaining rapidly upon her. Every moment
she fancied she might feel its touch upon
her shoulder, might see that face peering
into her eyes, those livid hands clutching
hers, those twisted limbs in contact with her
own. She flung out shriek after shriek of
horror into the silent air, startling the larks
as they circled in melodious rhythmic curves
over her head. On and on down the silent
lifeless valley, over the innumerable rifts and

fissures, scrambling across the boulders, her
feet hurt and bleeding from the stones  still
on, on, on she ran.

How she reached the cabin, how she got
the door open, she never precisely knew.
Half crazy with terror she rushed into the
house and up to Bridget, whom under ordinary
circumstances she was too much afraid
of even to approach, caught at her dress and
flung herself, like a criminal escaping from
justice, at her feet, hiding her face in the
folds of her red flannel petticoat.

The old woman's astonishment at first
literally deprived her of the power of
speech and movement. The next it turned
to anger.

Quit yer holt this minute, ye cutty !
How car you be clutching' at me like that?
Is it sleep-walking' ye are, ye flag-hopper?
Quit yer holt, or begorra I'll lay yer flat
wit me polar, so I will ! "

But these angry words, which usually
she would have shrunk from, had no effect
at all upon the girl's mortal terror. She

would rather have been beaten, rather have
been killed by a living and breathing woman,
than be left alone to that dread which
was clutching at her very soul, and paralysing
the vital actions of her whole body.

Twice she opened her mouth to speak, and
each time her parched tongue refused utterance.
At last she got the words out.

Thar's a man  kilt  dead ! " she stammered.


Bridget's face changed. A gleam of wild
satisfaction came into her eyes. She caught
the girl in her turn by the arm, and peered
curiously into her face.

"A man kilt? What sort of a man is
it, acushla ? Till me quick, girl ! " she said
eagerly.

Then, as Alley's paralysed tongue remained
dumb " Is it Mat Brady? Whist, child,
don't be dashed; sure what is there to scar
ye ? A man kilt !  truth, an' if that's all
'tis scared enough an' more nor enough
you'll be before you're much older, glory
be to God!"

They went back together to the field.
Great as Alley's terror was of the place, she
was more afraid still of remaining behind.
Who could tell whether the thing might not
leap on her from behind the door, or fall
headlong down the chimney, and lie there,
staring up at her with those horrible livid
eyes which would never, never close again.

No one had been in the field since she left.
The turkeys were still pecking at the moths,
which rose out of the clefts of the rock.
The bunch of ferns and flowers still lay precisely
where she had thrown it down in her
frenzied flight ; the grey overhanging rocks
were gay with secum and crossbill ; the
larks were circling overhead, pouring down
a rippling volume of clear star-like notes.
Spring, even in the Burren, was revelling
in a thousand dainty fancies. And there
before them on the ground, amidst all this
free, pure, beautiful springing nature, lay,
horribly twisted and deformed, that miserable
heap of clay which that morning had been a
man.

Bridget walked straight up to the corpse,
and stood looking down at it, wild gleams
of triumph irradiating her witch-like face
and black gleaming eyes.

Tis there ye 're, are ye?" she muttered
jeeringly. " Still an could, an' quiet
enough now, Mat Brady ! D'ye know who's
standing' over yer ? D'ye know that Hurrish
O'Brien's mother's lupin' down at ye ? Each,
an' 'tis th' ugly corpse ye make ! I wudn't
have the latin' out of yer for sixpence,
so I wouldn't, ye baste ! A gun ! " she
muttered, looking down at the weapon,
which still lay where it had been thrown
upon the ground. " But 'twas na gun dun
that"  looking at the corpse and the dark
brown mark of the wound on the temple,
" na, na, na gun, but a stick. An' a
good man, too, 'twas hilt that stick, so
'twas. Hurrish? Na, na, 'wasn't Hurrish.
Hurrish is too sat. Hurrish 'ud do most any-think
rather nor he'd kill a man. Maybe
't'ul be 'bout," she went on muttering to
herself, as she peered eagerly around amongst

the stunted hawthorns and low bushes of
furze, which sprouted out of the clefts of
the rocks.

Suddenly she gave a scream and a pounce,
pulled a stick out of the tuft of furze, waved
it frantically in the air, then, with the
shriek of a maniac, fell plump down upon
her knees on the ground.

'Twas ! 'twas ! 'twas himseV dun it !  himsel'
alone an' no other ! Glory be to God and
the saints this day ! Me shame's wiped out !
Hurrish, darling, yer old mither's shame's
wiped out ! 'Tis crying for joy she is this
minute ! Oh, me darling son ! me boy ! An'
I that thought he was too chicken-hearted for
to kill a man ! I wronged you, Hurrish darling
! Core of my soul ! where is he, that I
may bliss him ? Where is he at all, that I
may get at him an' bliss him for this day's
work ? Hurrish ! Hurrish, alannah ! "

She had quite forgotten Alley in her excitement.
Her withered face was alive with
hate and love ; her eyes blazed like live coals
in the wrinkled setting. The girl, however,

VOL. I. Q

had understood, and her cheeks turned from
white to red : for the second time that clay
she clutched her old tyrant by the arm, almost
shaking her in her anger.

How car' you say 'twas Hurrish dun
it?" she exclaimed. " Hurrish wudn't ha'
touched him ! How car you say Hurrish
killed him? Yer a wicked woman, so year',
 a bad wicked woman ! an' I'll tell
Hurrish myself on yer, so I will. You
might ha' dun it, but Hurrish wouldn't, 
he wouldn't hurt a fly. For shame to ye
saying' such a thing ! An' if I were Strong
enough, I'd bate ye for it, so I wud ! "

It was a vulture flown at by a ring-dove !
For a moment the old woman was petrified
and almost cowed with astonishment. The
next she sprang up, seized the girl by the
shoulder, and shook her as if she meant
literally to shake her to death, then brandished
the stick violently before her eyes.

D'ye see that, ye little fool ? D ye see
that, ye inherent cutty ? An' iv 't wasn't
for Hurrish himself, I'd lay ye cold thar too

for yer inference  be my soul ! yis. To
char till me I didn't know me own son's
stick. Luk at that, an' say agen 'wasn't
Hurrish dun it  God preserve him for it
this clay an' evermore, Amen ! An' if ye
car say word to living' soul, 'twill be the
last ye spake on this art, so mind that !
'Tis could and stiff like that ye'll be, ye
insolent cutty ! Strain' into other folk's
houses, aitin' their mate an' drink, and
takin' away their good names ! "

But Alley hardly heard the end of this
exhortation. The sight of Hurrish's stick 
that familiar stick, which little Katty had
played with so innocently only that very
morning  overcame her as no words could
have done. Horror struck home to her ;
horror, and a sickening paralysing chill,
which seemed to petrify her whole body.
This time she uttered no cry, only a low
gasping sob, and turning, ran back the way
she had come, leaving the old woman alone
with the dead man.

When she got near the cabin she paused

abruptly. There was no home for her there,
no home ever again anywhere in all this
weary world. Hurrish had done this thing
kind Hurrish, whom she loved so much.
He had done it ; had beaten this man to
death  perhaps when he was drunk  murdered
him, and left him there, dead or
dying, upon the rocks. The horror of it
was too great, too impossible, for her to
contain. She threw her shawl over her
head and ran wildly on, heedless of where
she was going,  ran, ran, ran, as a creature
runs after it has received its death-blow.

CHAPTEK XII.

"how cud he be there, an' he dead?"

It seemed indeed to Alley as if the end
of the world had come. Father Peter had
been preaching about it only a few Sundays
before, saying it was near, and now,
perhaps, it had arrived. To a loving heart
sudden loss of faith in a being that it has
loved is a catastrophe which needs no external
one, no loud sounding crack of doom,
to make more terrible. The idea crossed
her mind of running off to Galway to the
convent where her sister was, and asking
to be taken in there. She was afraid, however.
She would have to go to Bally-vaughan,
and there take the steamer across
the bay  a journey more fraught with terror

to her intra veiled imagination than any
pilgrimage to Some or Jerusalem to one
of another bringing up. She simply ran
and ran and ran, heedless of where she
was going, till she found herself upon the
shore, at the top of the rocks, which were
here not of any great height. She did not
even pause here, but clambering clown, heedless
of the sharp pointed peaks, studded at
their lower part with acorn barnacles, hid
herself in a sort of cleft or shallow cave
just within reach of high-water mark. If
she could only stay there for ever, she
thought, wildly  remain there till she died
never see old Bridget again  better still,
never see Hurrish  never see any one belonging
to her old life ! She did not think
of Maurice Brady at all. She was too confused
and miserable. Had she done so,
however, it would only have been an added
pang, for was not the man that had been
killed Maurice's brother ?

The cave was narrow and tapering, covered
with an immense, nearly horizontal, block,

which spanned it like the capstone of a
cromlech. It was nearly quite shut in at
the back, but at one point a little ray of
light threaded its way through the rocks,
throwing a pale yellowish illumination upon
the floor below. To poor Alley this yellow
light seemed like an eye peeping in at her,
and she cowed down anew to avoid its
gaze.

The tide was low, but had turned, and
was creeping steadily up, its voice rising
from time to time in a long choking sob.
Every now and then, too, over the furrowed
expanse of rock, a tall single shooting
column of white spray would rise, towering
like some great tropical blossom  an aloe
or agave  into existence, and then dying
suddenly down again immediately.

The sob of the waves, the hollow chuckling
noises, the great white shining expanse
of sea  all so familiar that no thought of
alarm had ever mingled with them before 
filled poor Alley to-day with unaccountable
terror. The thud underneath, caught by an

echo, sounded like blows struck upon the
roof of the slab under which she was crouching.
She thought it must be some one
moving above there, and shivered and
crouched yet more closely down, heedless
of the masses of dripping seaweeds and
slimy red sponges which spouted at her out
of a hundred gaping orifices. It was all
strange, all new, all terrible to-day, as the
most familiar scenes become when seen for
the first time under the light of some
blighting calamity. Terror was in her very
soul  terror of everything and of everybody.
What point had she to turn to ?
where could she look for help ? Even God,
the saints,  the blessed Virgin herself, 
seemed to have changed their aspect. Hurried
 the one earthly being to whom she
had hitherto clung  kind Hurrish, good
Hurrish, who had taken her to live with
him, who had been father and brother both
to her,  Hurrish  impossible yet hideous
realisation  Hurrish had done this. Hurrish
was a murderer ! She pressed her

hands tightly over her ears, as if the very
air was full of the horrible sound.

She had remained there crouched among the
rocks for nearly an hour, stunned and hardly
conscious of the lapse of time, when she heard
the sound of some one approaching. Several
times before she had fancied she had heard
steps, but it had turned out to be only her
own imagination. This time, however, it
really was some one coming along the strip
of shingle which lay between her and the
sea. First a shadow upon the rock before
her  the shadow of an elongated hat ; then
a larger and vaguer mass ; then a crunching
noise sounding above the hollow roar of the
sea, and a figure in a suit of brown tweed
appeared in sight.

Alley, who had shrunk back into the cave
expecting to see a stranger, gave a faint
involuntary cry at sight of this figure, which
caused it to stop and look up, and their eyes
met. It was Maurice Brady.

He too stared open-eyed with astonishment.
Of all places it would never have

occurred to him to meet Alley here, upon
these lonely rocks, so far from home.

Alley ! " he exclaimed, wonderingly.
Why, Alley, whatever brings you here ?
Is anything gone wrong ? You look scared
somehow and white. Has that old beast
Bridget been beating you again ? I wonder
that you'd stop with such an old scarecrow.
I wouldn't, if 'twas me ! "

But Alley, instead of answering, only stood
still staring at him, white and stiffened with
terror, like a little statue of Fear, at the
mouth of the cave. Her hair had fallen loose,
and hung in a dishevelled mass upon her
shoulders ; her poor little naked feet, cut
with the stones she had run so wildly over,
were stained here and there with thin trickles
of blood ; her whole attitude was expressive
of only one thing  terror  as she fixed her
great eyes upon the young man without
speaking.

What brought ye 'tall ? " she stammered
at last.

Maurice gave a little laugh, rather an embarrassed

one. " Well, now, 'twas a mighty
queer thing that brought me, and that's the
truth, Alley. The queerest thing ever happened
to me yet, so it was ! "

He waited, expecting her to express surprise
or interest, but Alley said nothing.
She simply stood and looked at him, all her
remaining consciousness bound up in the resolution
not to tell, not to tell, not to tell.
That was her only thought.

Sit down upon this bit of rock, and
don't look so silly and scared : you make
me feel quite queer, so you do," the young
man went on, indicating a recess where she
was to seat herself.

Alley obeyed. She was in such a state of
mental and physical collapse that she would
have yielded to any suggestion. She sat
mechanically down upon the piece of rock in
front of the cave, and Maurice seated himself
beside her.

"Now, mind, Alley, before I tell you anything,
you must give me your word not to
repeat a word to any one," he began, authoritatively.

"I don't know what oughtn't
happen if you did. They might put it into
the papers, perhaps, with my name and
all ! Troth, if they did, I'd run away, and
never come back at all, but go and settle
maybe in America."

He waited to allow this dreadful picture of
his own probable expatriation to sink into
Alley's mind before proceeding any further.
As she said nothing, however, but simply
stared blankly at the sea, he concluded that
she was still thinking about whatever it was
that had upset her, and that he had better
tell his story first, and exact a promise
about keeping it a secret afterwards.

The curious thing is that it should have
been me that it happened to, for if there's
one thing I've always set my face against, it's
the rubbish cellars go on with about ghosts,
and fetches, and suchlike old-fashioned talk.
Now, if it had been a sellar like Hurrish
seen what I saw this morning, he'd have
been screaming ghosts and goblins all over
the country ! "

Iu spite of this assertion, a physiognomist
would have perceived that the young man
was not quite so calm as he would have
appeared. Instead of its usual self-sustained
air, his face wore rather an unsettled and
excited expression, and he glanced from time
to time over his shoulder, with a slight air of
suspiciousness.

Alley, however, noticed nothing. Her
mind was enveloped in a mist  a mist that
obscured all lesser objects  sometimes closing
up entirely, sometimes opening a little way
to reveal hideous visions, but never entirely
disappearing.

Well, Alley, mind now what I say about
not a word of this to any one. I'd some
writing to do this morning, so I got up
early  not having to be at the shop till nine
and went down to the sea, thinking I'd
do it better upon the shore, for the room I
have is small, and there's another young
sellar in it besides myself. Well, I got a
nice comfortable place, much as it might
be here, only instead of rocks it's all sand

there, stretching along the sea for miles.
I was busy with my writing, for when a
man writes for the newspapers he has to
be very particular, and I happened to lookup
for a moment, thinking of a word I
couldn't remember. There was a sort of
a gap in front of me, something like Gort-
nacoppin, only smaller, and, in the middle
of the gap  are you minding what I'm
saying, Alley?  in the middle of the gap
who should be standing there but Mat,
looking as usual, only a bit queer, as if
he'd been drinking, and his eyes wide
open, and a black mark on his head, just
there, to the left of  I say, don't be clutching
at me like that, Alley; sure I'm not
going to run away  listen now ! I jumped
up, and ' Well, Mat, what are ye doing
here ? ' says I, and went over towards him ;
but when I come to the place the devil
a sign of him was in it at all. So I
thought maybe he'd dodged behind one of
the hillocks, not wanting me to know he
was there, and I went round, but no, not a

sign of him there either; so I climbed up
another big hillock there was, where I could
see all round me and into the hollows, but
not a sign of any one 'kept some sheep, and
a little boy minding them ; so I run up to
him, and asked, did he see a man pass?
and he said, No, ne'er a one had passed
'tall that morning', only myself  and he
between me and the road, you mind ! So
when I heard that, I gathered up my papers
like a shot, and back with me to the shop,
and made them give me leave for the day,
and off I come to see what took Mat there,
or if it was himself at all. For it's the
queerest thing ever I knew, and somehow
I can't get it out of my head."

Poor Alley ! Before one terror had begun
to subside another had sprung up and taken
its place ! Her attention, which at first had
wandered, had gradually grown more and
more concentrated upon the narrative, and
long before it had ended she was trembling
from head to foot. Her previous expression
of blank despair had changed for one of active

absorbing terror. Her teeth chattered ; her
eyes were set like the eyes of a sleep-walker.

"My God, how cud he be there, an he
dead ? " fell almost unconsciously from her
quivering lips.

Maurice Brady started and stared  started
and stared again. He had told her his story
chiefly from an impelling desire to tell it to
some one, no matter who  to get the thing,
as it were, outside himself  certainly not
with any idea that she could throw light
upon the mystery. At this startling corroboration,
however, panic seized him. Could
it mean  could there be anything in it ?
Was it, could it be meant as a warning ?
Fear shot suddenly through his blood, like
a stream of icy water. Alley's pallor, which
he had been too self - absorbed at first to
notice much, rushed back vividly upon his
mind. Did she know something ? Had
she seen anything? If so 

What's that yer saying 'tall, Alley ? " he
exclaimed, springing to his feet and speaking
in a tone of authority. What d'ye mean

by Mat being dead? How should he be
dead, when he was as alive as myself three
days ago? Speak up 'once if yer don't
want me to think that ye re raving out and
out," he added, stooping and seizing her by
the shoulder, as if to arouse her.

Poor Alley turned her large terrified eyes
upon him. What had she done ? What had
she said ?

"Oh, Morry dear, don't mind me ! Sure
'tis distraught I am, I dun know what I'm
saying' 'tall!" she cried, clasping her hands
piteously.

But Maurice's suspicions were too thoroughly
aroused to be allayed now.

You must have meant something, Alley!"
he answered violently. " Has anything happened
? Speak up  d'ye hear me?" he added,
giving a slight shake to the shoulder which
he still held. " Do what I tell you this instant
: ain't I going to be yer husband ? Do
ye char disobey me ? If ye don't tell me,
begorra I'll take yer back to Hurrish, and see
what he has to say. If I don't have it out

VOL. I. E.

of you, I'll have it out of him. And, by
God ! if I find "

But poor little Alley had reached the point
where endurance could go no further. The
concentrated anguish of the last two hours,
and now Maurice's sudden unkindness, were
too much for her. She fell back half fainting
upon the rock, and lay there white as a little
ghost.

The young man's anger was too vehement,
however, for him to experience any sudden
revulsion towards tenderness. He was fond
of her, in his way, very fond ; nevertheless
his feelings at that moment were less those of
pity than of anger at her inconvenient feebleness
 anger at being balked in his desire to
plunge into the heart of his mystery, which
was fast driving him mad with anger and excitement.
He was not particularly tender by
nature, and his love, strong as it was, was for
the moment too entirely in abeyance to anger
for him to care very much whether Alley suffered
or not. His strongest desire now was
to get away. What was the use of staying

with a girl who only cried and fainted ? If
anything really had happened, the only way
to satisfy himself was to go and see. As
soon, therefore, as he saw that she was beginning
to revive, and that a faint colour was
returning to her cheeks, he left her where she
was, saying that he would be back soon, and
started as fast as he could across the level
platforms of rock, past Hurrish's cabin,
and up the hill in the direction of his
brother's cabin, which took him, as a matter
of course, straight through the Grortnacoppin
valley.

By the time he reached the rocky amphitheatre
which had been the scene of that
morning's tragedy, it was no longer deserted.
A small crowd, chiefly of ragged boys and
girls with a few women, had gathered upon
the ridge, and were peering down curiously at
the dead man. Two policemen, armed with
their guns, stood posted as sentinels on either
side of the body; a party of four more, in
front of whom walked Mr Sub-inspector Higgins,
were coming down the jDath, their black

official figures sharply defined against the
pale-grey luminous background.

Until that moment Maurice had hardly
known what he feared. Now he stood still,
appalled by the sight before him  appalled
by the sudden realisation of his worst fears.
That that dark heap beside which the policemen
stood was his brother Mat's body, he
had not an atom of doubt. He put up his
hands to his head, and staggered back against
a rock, white, and sickened with horror.

His mind was not idle, however. Alley
had known of this ! That point was beyond
a doubt. If she had known about it,
who then could have committed the crime
but Hurrish ?  Hurrish, who had sworn so
lately that for his sake nothing would ever
tempt him to lay a finger upon Mat  Hurried,
who pretended to be so devoted to him !
The certainty seemed to burn itself into his
very brain. All the particles of evidence
rose up one by one before him, and each
seemed to strengthen and confirm that belief.

Who would Alley be so anxious to screen as
Hurrish ? Who so likely to meet Mat hereat
the juncture of the two farms ? Clearly
Hurrish. Hurrish had done it ; everything
pointed to it. All at once the desire for
revenge  hot, insatiable, all-devouring  rose
and rose in his breast, until everything else
became submerged under its torrent. Had
he not sworn  sworn to Hurrish himself
that if any one laid a finger upon Mat,
he should pay for it. And now  by God !
if justice was to be had, he should pay
for it !

The second party of policemen had by
this time made their way down the hill,
and had joined the group below. He could
hear the inspector's clear-cut voice issuing
orders to his men. Suddenly he started forward,
and hurried down the slope, pushing
through the crowd  an inquisitive and excited
rather than overawed one  until he,
too, stood beside the corpse, which still lay
upon its back, just as it had fallen when the

breath of life had left it. His first impulse
was to put his hand above his brother's
heart ; the next to try and lift his hand. It
was already cold, and as stiff as if carved
in wood.

The inspector was beginning to put the
usual inquiries  who had last seen the man
alive ? had any sound of the struggle been
heard ? Suddenly Maurice started to his feet
with an impetuous gesture.

Don't be wasting your time asking no
questions ! " he exclaimed imperiously. " Go
clown to that house there and arrest the
man what's done it, that's what you've got
to do. This is my brother, Matthew Brady,
lying here murdered, and the man that's
murdered him is  Hurrish O'Brien ! "

There was a start, a sudden " sensation "
amongst all present. Even the policemen 
most of whom had been a long time in the
district  were taken by surprise, for there
was no better known, or on the whole better
liked, name than Hurrish's.

Mr Higgins alone was impassive. To him
all these strange names sounded precisely
alike.

"Who do you say?  Hurrish  H-u-r

How do you spell it ? " he inquired, taking
a note-book out of his pocket and beginning
to enter the name in it with a stylographic
pen.

Maurice disdaining to answer, the necessary
information was supplied by one of the
policemen, who at the same time whispered
something into his superior's ear.

Yes, yes ; of course. What are your
reasons for believing this man to be the criminal
? " he inquired, turning sharply to Maurice
: Mr Higgins never hesitated on duty.

A whirl of conflicting ideas rushed through
the young man's brain at the question. If
possible he would screen Alley, he hastily
resolved. Her name should not be dragged
into it if he could help it.

I've reasons enough, and more than
enough," he said, sullenly. " Tis he that's

clone it. There's no more doubt about it
than that the sun's in the sky. Every one
knows that he and my brother are enemies 
have been these years past."

Mr Higgins was rather perplexed. Over-readiness
to proclaim the name of the guilty
man had not hitherto formed part of his
experiences of agrarian outrages ! He was a
zealous officer, however,  one, too, to whom
opportunities for distinguishing himself had
hitherto been rather wanting,  and he was
not disposed therefore to allow the present
occasion to slip from his grasp. Unfortunately
there was a hitch. The local resident
magistrate, to whom under ordinary circumstances
application would have been made
for a warrant of arrest, happened to be
away, having been summoned to attend a
trial in Limerick, and in his absence the
nearest unpaid magistrate was Mr O'Brien
of Donore. Now Mr Higgins would have
given a good deal not to have been obliged
to present himself before that gentleman so

soon after that last parting of theirs, the
memory of which still rankled unpleasantly.
Duty, however, was duty, and he was not
the man to allow personal considerations to
stand in the way of it. Desiring the policemen
in attendance to remain where they
were, and on no account to allow any one to
approach the body until he returned, he accordingly
reascenclecl the side of the glen,
followed only by a single policeman, and
regained the road where he had left his
horse.

Arrived at the top of the pass, he turned
by a natural instinct to look back at the
scene which he had just quitted. The sides
of the valley were so steep that the groups
below seemed to be almost vertically underneath.
Fresh figures were descending the
rocks on the other side,  three men and two
women, the madder-red petticoats of the
latter forming bright moving spots of colour
upon the wilderness of grey. Below stood
the policemen, conspicuous by their black-vol.

i. s

ness, gathered together in a compact formal-looking
group. And, erect beside the deadman,
his arms crossed upon his chest, his
pale handsome face set like a mask, stood
Maurice Brady  an image of vengeance
waiting for its victim.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

Tainted BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.





I

Li I .



i

H U R R I S H

'WX  ' . '

>"!'. r

':

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

82.3

CENTRAL CIRCULATION AND BOOKSTACKS

The person borrowing this material is responsible
for its renewal or return before
the Latest Date stamped below. You maybe
charged a minimum fee of $75.00 for
each non-returned or lost item.

Theft, mutilation, or defacement of library materials can be
causes for student disciplinary action. All materials owned by
the University of Illinois Library are the property of the State
of Illinois and are protected by Article 16B of Illinois Criminal
Law and Procedure.

TO RENEW, CALL (217) 333-8400.
University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign

OCT 2 9 1999

When renewing by phone, write new due date
below previous due date. L162

The person charging this material is responsible
for its renewal or its return to
the library from which it was borrowed
on or before the Latest Date stamped
below. You may be charged a minimum
fee of $75.00 for each lost book.

Theft mutilotloiv cid undermining of books ore reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.

TO RENEW Cal TELEPHONE CENTER, 333-8400
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

MHo>r

199ff

APR 2 e 1399

ii.KSt



When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. L162

A STUDY

BY

THE HON. EMILY LAWLESS

AUTHOR OF 'a CHELSEA HOUSEHOLDER,'

'A millionaire's cousin'

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. IL

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

Edinburgh AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVI

All V'lnlit'!. rcxfi'i'veil

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/hurrishstudy02lawl

CHAP.

I. IN GORTNACOPPIN VALLEY,

II. Maurice's night thoughts,
III. alley's night thoughts,

IV. THE ROAD TO JAIL,

V. MR Thomson o'bRIEN UPON THE REQUIRE

MENTS op IRELAND,

VI. MAURICE TRIUMPHS OVER ALL HIS ENEMIES,

VII. TEAMPULL A PHOILL,

Vii IN THE COURT-HOUSE AT ENNIS,

IX. SUNDAY IN THE Barren, .

X. A FLASH IN THE DARK, .

XI. THE WRONG Spleen,

XII. HURRISH SEES THE DEATH SPER'rT, .

XIII. UPON THE VERY BRINK, .

XIV. SOME PRECURSORS OF THE MILLENNIUM,
XV. FACE TO FACE,

XVI. " FOR I ALLAYS SAID He'd BE A GRAn' MAN
CONCLUSION, .

PAGE






















CHAPTER I.
IN GORTNACOPPIN VALLEY.

Mr O'Brien was standing beside the lake,
with his eyes fixed upon the surface. The
poor man had been busy all day at different
points of the estate, and had brought away
a tolerably severe heartache from each.
There were some labourers at that very moment
employed in clearing out a ditch not
far off, whom he visited punctiliously from
time to time. He was his own steward as
well as his own agent, maintaining, not unreasonably,
that a property which could hardly

VOL. II. A

pay its own expenses could still more forcibly
not afford to be encumbered with a burden of
annuitants. It was a gallant resolution, but
it had been a bitter one to carry out, and
the source too of some of his worst unpopularity.
Labourers ! Who that knows Ireland
but has a responsive groan to offer upon the
altar of that topic ? Poor Mr O'Brien had expended
many groans, but they had not been
very fruitful ones. To obtain a fair day's
work in return for a fair day's wage, was a
feat which he had set all his pride and all
his powers of will to accomplish. He had
argued, pleaded, bribed, had done everything
that man could do to procure that
end. Needless to say, he had been beaten at
every point. He had given up the contest
now. He employed fewer men than formerly,
but those few had as comfortable and satisfactory
a time as any set of " labourers " within
the four seas. Whereas, formerly, he had
been rather given to surprising offenders, 
pouncing upon them at unexpected moments,
and from unlooked-for points,  now, on the

contrary, he was careful to make known his
approach by loud coughs and other unmistakable
signals. He was rewarded by invariably
finding a magnificent display of industry
whenever he approached  every man
plunging his spade into the soil with a
sort of desperation, as if a bet of a thousand
pounds, at least, depended upon his individual
industry.

At the sound of hoofs clattering up the
avenue he looked round with an air of surprise,
and a frown came to his forehead when
he perceived his visitor.

Mr Higgins, however, gave him no time
to speak. He dashed at once into the thick
of the subject.

I am sorry to be obliged to  ar  trouble
you, Mr O'Brien," he said, reining in his
horse beside him, and speaking in a tone of
formality. "But I have come upon a matter
of  business,'  the emphasis upon the last
word was very emphatic.

Mr O'Brien bowed, and stood waiting to
hear what the business was.

There has been, I  ar  regret to say, an
atrocious crime, a  ar  murder, perpetrated
within my district, and  Mr Cavanagh being
at Limerick  I am obliged to come to you
as the nearest magistrate for a warrant for
the arrest of the  ar  criminal."

Another murder ! Mr O'Brien fell back
a step or two, and gazed upon his informant
with a face of horror. " Who is it ? " he
said, hoarsely.

' A man of the name of Brady  a tenant,
I believe, of your own."

There was a discernible note of triumph,
for Mr Higgins had not forgotten their last
conversation. Mr O'Brien, however, only
heard the fact itself.

Good God ! " he said, below his breath ;
and then 'good God!" again. "The man
is dead, you say ? "

Stone dead. I left the body where it
was found, and expect to find the coroner
there upon my return. The place is a  ar
valley about two miles from here."

Mr O'Brien turned away. The indifferent

officialism of the other's tone jarred upon him.
'good God! Good God!" he repeated over
and over inwardly. He had begun to lull
himself into a sort of half belief that matters
were really at last beginning to mend, and
here now was a fresh crime, and at his very
door. He forgot that the other man was
waiting  forgot everything but the fact itself.
It had been a common enough occurrence
for him to have got 'used," perhaps,
as people say, to it, but who ever really
succeeds in getting " used " to such incidents?
His horror was not quite impersonal either.
It was he who had put this man Brady into
that farm for the occupying of which he
had doubtless met his death. Against advice
too he had done it. Hurrish's words,
"There'll be bad work  the civil's oivn bad
work ! " came back vividly to his mind.
The devil's own work, indeed ! Was the
country given over then to devils ? Were
they all in a league together ? Was there
never, never to be an end of these horrors
which blackened the very name of Irishman ?

** What did you say about wanting a warrant
against some one ; who is it ? " he inquired,
turning eagerly to Mr Higgins, whose
face expressed his ill-restrained impatience.

"A man called  ar  O'Brien,  Hurrish
O'Brien."

The other man also called O'Brien fell
back, and stared at the inspector with an air
of stupefaction. " Nonsense ! " he exclaimed
at last, indignantly. " Hurrish O'Brien !
Nonsense ! Impossible ! "

Mr Higgins stiffened his chin. "It is
the man's own brother who has given the
evidence," he said.

"What man's brother?"

The murdered man's."

'Tis a lie then, whoever says it ! Why,
I've known Hurrish O'Brien ever since he was
that high. He would be as incapable of killing
a man in cold blood as I should myself ! "

Mr Higgins shrugged his shoulders. " Let
us hope it  ar  is so," he said. " In the
meanwhile the evidence seems to me to be
of a  ar  very serious character. May I

trouble you to sign this warrant. You will
see that it is ready filled up. Allow me to
offer you a still."

Mr O'Brien took no notice of the still.
I tell you, I totally disbelieve in Hurrish
O'Brien having anything to say to it," he
said angrily.

Mr Higgins smiled serenely.

'totally disbelieve in it, do you hear?"
the other repeated.

Mr Higgins smiled again. "You will
scarcely decline to sign the warrant upon
that account, I  ar  presume ? " he said significantly.


It was the wrong note to strike. This
insistent ofl&cialism was exactly calculated to
set Mr O'Brien's pride bristling at once.

"On the contrary, that is precisely what
I do decline to do," he said curtly. " If
upon further examination the man is found
to be guilty,  which I totally disbelieve, 
there will be plenty of time to arrest him
then. If not  as I am convinced will turnout
to be the case  the Government will be

spared another blunder brought upon it by
the zeal of its officials. I decline to sign a
warrant for the committal of a man whom
I believe to be as innocent as myself."

Mr Higgins was genuinely incapable of
answering. New as he was to this work,
he was an official to the backbone, and that
any one would refuse an official demand
was an idea which had never entered into
his imagination.

You  ar  decline 1 " he exclaimed, in a
tone of stupefaction.

Emphatically. I wish you good morning,
Mr Higgins ; you will excuse me,  my men
are waiting for me in the next field," and
away walked Mr O'Brien across the grass.

To describe Mr Higgins's feelings as he rode
back with the still unsigned warrant in his
pocket, would be beyond my powers. The
refusal was in his eyes rather a grosser
violation of law, if anything, than the murder
itself. Refuse to sign a warrant ! Refuse to
support the authority of the constabulary !
The man must be mad. There could be no

other explanation ! It is true that it was not
necessary, in strict law, to obtain a magistrate's
warrant before arresting a supposed
criminal,  the constabulary being perfectly
free to do so without one. They did it in
that case, however, at their own risk, and
there had not been wanting cases lately
where such an excess of zeal had been
rewarded with anything but comfortable
consequences. On the whole, therefore, he
decided, though against his will, to delay
taking any further steps until Mr Cavanagh's
return from Limerick, which was fortunately
expected that very evening. But if this
fellow O'Brien took the opportunity of
escaping in the meanwhile? Mr Higgins's
feeling was that in that case his namesake
ought to be tried, and if necessary hanged, in
his place !

By the time he got back a much larger
crowd had collected in the amphitheatre,
the news of the deed having spread
with the rapidity with which such news
seems invariably endowed. It had awakened

some excitement and more curiosity, so
that gradually every one belonging to Tub-lamina,
with the exception of those away
at Ballyvaughan for the fair, had gathered
around the spot. To none did the news
come with more startling surprise than to
the very men who, as will be remembered,
had undertaken that duty themselves, but
had been prevented by a succession of such
accidents as will occur even in the best
regulated societies. Andy Holohun was at
first disposed to give the credit of the
achievement to Peter O'O'Flanagan, and Peter
O'O'Flanagan to Andy Holohun. When, upon
further inquiries, passed rapidly from mouth
to mouth and ear to ear, it turned out that
neither of these heroes could claim the credit,
the perplexity and excitement deepened perceptibly.
As for Hurrish O'Brien, no one
at first even thought of him. He had put
up with Mat Brady's provocations so long,
that his patience had become a sort of
local proverb ; and although at the drawing
of lots it had been arranged that the

lot should fall upon him, it had been morea
sort of support to other backsliders, than
from the slightest expectation that he would
really undertake the office. When, therefore,
it became known that Maurice Brady had
actually denounced him, and had demanded
that a warrant should be taken out against
him, a thrill of genuine excitement ran
through the whole assembly. Every one
liked Hurrish ; every one was aware of the
sum of indebtedness which Maurice Brady
owed to him. Murder is a trifle, but ingratitude
of this sort is a crime which strikes
with the fullest possible effect upon an Irish
imagination.

Long before the coroner had arrived
measures had been taken to warn Hurrish.
A boy had been secretly despatched to
Ballyvaughan, to let him know what was on
foot, so that if he decided to escape he could
do so, or at any rate could keep out of the
way until after the coroner had sat. When
that important official at last appeared upon
the scene, there was a general slipping away

on the part of all the men present, none of
whom particularly desired being called upon
to serve on the jury. It was not, therefore,
without some difficulty and considerable delay
that the necessary dozen demanded by
the law were secured, and marched down the
hill under the charge of an escort of police.

A wilder, more essentially law - defying
dozen were rarely perhaps gathered together
at the command of the law. Some
of the men looked scared; others fierce
and excited; others again sullen and indifferent
; while some, including the two recreant
Andy Holohun and Peter O'O'Flanagan,
were evidently rather pleased and tickled by
the whole proceeding. Not a few of the
jurymen were in absolute rags,  tatterdemalion
loafers at the corners of the street,
and hangers-on upon the charity of others.
Several were very old men, wearing the knee-breeches
and tail-coats of a generation ago,
amongst whom was our old acquaintance Phil
Eooney, who had been attracted like others
to the scene, and been promptly pounced upon

as a *' decent " man, less likely than others to
give a verdict in direct opposition to the
evidence. No intelligence or educational
qualification, however, is required in a jury
of this kind. Indeed poor Thady-na-Taggart
was one of the original dozen, and only escaped
by taking to his heels, and starting across the
rocks at a pace which the official who had
secured him did not see his way to imitating.

When all were collected, they were marched
down to take up their places at the bottom
of the amphitheatre, where the coroner,
Mr Higgins, and Maurice Brady were already
assembled,  the constabulary, who had by
this time been recruited by others from a
more distant barracks, keeping order, and
preventing the crowd from pressing too
closely upon the group around the body.

A strange scene truly!  characteristic of
people, country, times! On one side the
dozen unwilling ministers of the law  whole-coated
or ragged-coated, as the case might
be ; on the other the coroner, a stout little
man in a suit of rusty black, with a pockmarked,

dim complexion ed face, imperceptible
nose, and air of vulgar importance.
Beside him Mr Higgins, stiff and thick-set,
stolid English officialism stamped upon every
line of his heavy - featured, commonplace
face. A little way off, in marked contrast
to these two, Maurice Brady, tall, slight, and
erect, his arms crossed upon his chest, his
pale handsome face and resolute disdainful
air giving him rather the aspect of some
political prisoner  an Emmet or a Wolfe
Tone  at the bar of his country's enemies.
Behind, and as a background to these, the
wild helter - skelter crowd of idlers and
lookers-on  women with blue cloaks, bare
feet, ragged red petticoats; old hags, be-wrinkled
and hideous ; half-naked boys, who
skipped about, active as goats, amongst the
rocks, and were with difficulty restrained
by the police. Every now and then some
fresh figures would appear over the edge of
the basin, hurrying eagerly down to the
scene below. After its long ages of idleness
and vacancy, the amphitheatre had at last

vindicated its existence. It was a theatre
indeed to-day ! a theatre brimming over with
eager spectators. Ledge above ledge, rock
over rock, the rows of wild, excited faces
rose one above the other  the sun streaming
in sleepy oblique bands over the whole,
a few astonished sheep or goats showing
their white, impassive faces here and there
amongst the crowd.

After a little delay the examination began.
Maurice Brady was the first witness.

Questioned by the coroner. "The deceased
is your brother ? "

"Yes."

When did you see him last alive ? "

Four days since."

He was then in his ordinary health ? "

"Yes."

Have you reason to think that your
brother was upon bad terms with any one ? "

"I have."

"With whom?"

'with Hurrish O'Brien."

At this answer, given in a clear distinct

tone, a sudden murmur ran through the
crowd,  a low buzz of anger, indignation,
contempt. A thrill of excitement passed
through Maurice Brady. It was the first
note of popular displeasure he had ever
heard ! It nerved him for the moment,
however, rather than daunted. " Fools ! did
they suppose he cared a haporth about their
opinions," he thought contemptuously.

The examination continued. Was it inconsequence
of his brother having taken the
farm from which the Maloneyss had been
evicted that he and O'Brien had quarrelled ?

To this, rather to the surprise of some
of the hearers, the witness answered "No."

Questioned further whether he had ever
received any warnings that his brother was
in danger? Answered, 'eyes." "Was the
person he was in danger from Hurrish
O'Brien?" Answered, "Yes." Questioned
who had given him that information? Answered
 nothing.

His examination was then suspended while
the other witnesses were called. The first

was one of the constabulary, who deposed to
having been told by a boy who was passing
the barracks that a body was lying in
the valley below. That he and another constable
thereupon came to the place, and
found the body lying as it was at present.
The boy, he said, had run off, and had not
been seen since, but they would no doubt
be able to lay hands on him if he was
required. He also deposed to finding the
gun, which he produced, both barrels of
which were empty.

The next witness was the dispensary doctor,
who had partially examined the body
previous to the arrival of the coroner. The
deceased had, in his opinion, he said, died
from the effects of the blow visible upon
the temple. There was no gunshot wound,
or other wound or concussion of any kind,
so far as he had ascertained, with the
exception of a slight injury to the back of
the head. The blow upon the temple must
have been given by a very heavy weapon,
probably a hammer or a loaded stick.

VOL. II. B

Death in all probability had resulted directly
from effusion of blood to the brain ;
he should be able, however, he said, to
form a more decided opinion on this point
after the regular post-mortem examination.
His evidence ended by his stating that so
violent and so instantaneously fatal a blow
could only, in his opinion, have been inflicted
by an unusually powerful man.

This was practically all the evidence. There
was not much delay either about the verdict :
accidental death was evidently impracticable,
even to the ingenuity of an Irish jury. No
man, by any stretch of activity, stupidity,
or ingenuity, could have given that blow
on the head to himself. There was only
one other alternative, therefore. The twelve
men unanimously brought in an open verdict
 murder against some person or persons
unknown.

As soon as this business was finished, and
the embodied majesty of the law had broken
itself up again into its individual insignificance,
four of the constabulary advanced,

lifted the body of the unfortunate Brady from
the ground, laid it upon a hurdle, kept at
the barracks for such purposes, and taking
each a corner, bore it away uphill at a brisk
walk.

The crowd fell back on all sides as it advanced
through their midst. Some of the
women crossed themselves, and the elder
men removed their hats. The rest, including
those who had just been serving on the
jury, stood looking on with an air of sullen
indifference. When, however, Maurice Brady
followed, this indifference changed. Symptoms
of anger broke out. No actual menaces
were uttered, but all eyes, even those of
the women, fixed themselves upon him with
an expression of sudden repulsion. He was
only half aware of this himself, however, ashe
avoided looking any one fully in the face,
his chief desire being to get away from them
all as quickly as possible, and to be alone.

It was a long hard climb for the four bearers,
and they were obliged several times to put
the hurdle down in order to rest. A couple of

men who lead followed at a little distance
were called to once and offered money if they
would assist in the carriage, but they peremptorily
declined, and turned away immediately
down a side-path. When the top of
the ridge was at last reached, the narrow,
hemmed-in world of rocks in which they had
been all this while enclosed, changed suddenly
to a wide-reaching world of sea, and land, and
sky, green on the side of South Clare, grey
where the terraced hills of Burren stretched
for miles. Tubbamina lay immediately below
them, a melancholy cluster of whitewashed
cabins, surrounding a squat and sordid-looking
chapel ; beyond lay the beautiful
widely open mouth of the bay of Galway,
with the long low line of coast reaching
from that town to Gratian's Bay; and far,
far away, over the shimmering waters of the
bay, and over all the low-lying country between,
the saw-edged outline of the Twelve
Pins of Bennabeola rose, one behind the
other, softened, made mystical, spiritualised,
against a clear blue, milky-looking sky.

Land and water were so mingled, one
might almost say interpenetrated, in the
picture, that it was hard to say where the
one began and the other ended. The stern,
forbidding rocks beyond Blackhead were
bathed in soft caressing sunlight, as the
sea broke in green volumes along their
base. At one point the water could be
seen glittering far inland in a number of
tiny lakes, linked together and melted into
one by distance. At another, small rocks
and islets  villains, carries, and carrick-mens
 besotted the edges of the coast,
where two or three brown - sailed hookers
were slowly creeping along, every sail set
to catch the capricious breeze. Due west
the three isles of Aran streamed across the
mouth of the bay,  the two great cyclopean
forts of Dun angus, and its brother
Dun Conchobhair, even at this distance the
most conspicuous features in their low, flat,
tabular outline.

The descent upon the other side to that
lower col or ridge upon which the Bradyss'

cabin stood was another change again. They

had to pass along a narrow lane, sunk deep

in the rocks, through breaks in which small

square fields, covered with stones, became

visible. Here and there were a few scant

patches of potatoes and oats, all neglected

and deep in weeds. A quantity of sea-gulls

were collected in screaming excitement atone

spot. Crows stalked to and fro over

the grass with an air of protectorship, and

some large red and white cows looked up

with an air of mild eyed interest and wonder

as the gloomy little procession passed them

by. To them, no doubt, as to others, it was

quite a cheerful and pleasing break in the

uninteresting monotony of their lives.

CHAPTEK 11.

Maurice's night thoughts.

At last they reached the cabin. It was
unspeakably miserable,  several sizes larger
than Hurrish's, but naked, bald, and dreary
beyond words. Not a tree  not even the
all-prevailing hawthorn; not a flower; not
an attempt or a pretence of a garden ; nota
paling  nothing to relieve the stark and
stony air of desolation. The walls had once
been whitewashed, but the big stones had
long ago reasserted themselves in all directions
over the surface. What remained of
the whitewash was all smeared and streaked
with long green and yellow weather-stains,
giving it an indescribably dank, bilious, and
soddened aspect. A large cow-house flanked

it on one side and a pig-sty on the other, but
these symptoms of prosperity were if anything
rather more filthy, rickety, and tumbledown
than the original building. To Maurice
this ancestral abode of his had always been a
source of unspeakable discomfort, the more
so that his brother was a well-to-do man,
with plenty of live-stock, and even a considerable
sum of money laid away in bank.
To-day he hardly heeded it, however. The
external aspect of things had ceased, for
the time being, to produce any particular
impression one way or other upon his
mind.

They laid the unfortunate Mat upon his
own bed, which was in the inner room. Then
the policemen came out, and stood waiting.
Maurice, with that ineffaceable instinct of
hospitality which survives all vicissitudes,
looked about for whisky, but could find none.
There were three or four empty barrels lying
about, and a whole mountain of empty bottles
at one corner. The furniture was originally
of a better quality seemingly than at Hurt

house, but broken for the most part
almost to splinters, as if habitually used as
missiles. The fire, too, had gone out, and
though the afternoon was warm, the black
dismal fireplace struck a sense of chilling
desolation. It seemed as if Death had seated
itself in bodily presence upon the hearth.

Maurice looked round for some means of
relighting it. There was no turf to be seen,
however, so he went outside to the stack,
which was close to the cow-house. At the
door he encountered one of the two men who
worked for his brother,  a big, ragged, hulking
fellow, who stood staring about, his mouth
half open, in idle vacancy. This man he
ordered, in his usual tone of unquestionable
authority, to go and fetch some turf, and
make the fire up at once. The fellow waited
until he had done speaking, then, suddenly
turning upon him, cursed him with a hideous
oath, and asked him whether he supposed
that he was going to demean himself by

doing anything for a informer? turned

on his heel, and so walked away.

Maurice Brady stood still as if a thunderbolt
from heaven had fallen upon him. An
informer ! The word seemed to echo and
vibrate with brazen tongues and trumpets
all about the place ! The constables, finding
probably that no refreshments were
forthcoming after their long climb, came
out, and one of them told Maurice in
passing that they would be on the road
by turns all that night, in case of any
disturbance.

He made no answer. He was incapable
of speaking. "An informer!" That was
all he heard, knew, thought of. He, Maurice
Brady, an informer ' When they had gone,
he stumbled back into the house, and sat
down upon the first stool he met with, his
head ringing with the word, a whirling noise
like the rumble of machinery sounding continually
in his ears.

If any one of a higher calibre even had said
it, he could have borne it better. But a fellow
like Laity Bradigan ! a hind, a savage,
a cutter of turf and drawer of water ! a

wretched ignorant creature, whom he had
always swept into the very dust with his
contempt ! It stung him to the very pith
and marrow of his bones, through his pride,
through his self-respect, through everything.
It seemed a foretaste, too, of other scorning
and hissing which he was likely to encounter,
as if fierce contemptuous fingers
were being pointed at him in all directions.
"An informer !" Word summing up everything
that to an Irishman of his type is
expressive of ignominy ! Heavens and earth !
he, Maurice Brady, to be branded as an informer
!

How long he sat there he could not afterwards
have told. Suddenly he came to himself
with a start, and looked round. There
was not a living creature there besides himself,
 not a cat even, or a dog. In front the
black hearth stared at him with its sickly
air of conscious desolation. It had begun
to grow dark, too, and the corners of the
room were already deep in shadow. The
door of the inner one was partially opened,

and he could see a corner of the bed and
a bit of the blanket. He averted his eyes
from it in quick horror  a horror which
seemed to rise like some sort of foul exhalation
from the ground. All the scenes of that
long day rushed back upon him suddenly.
He felt glued to his seat by a creeping
terror, which rose and rose, until it seemed
to clutch at his throat with icy hands. All
his life he had prided himself upon his exceptional
freedom from superstition of all
sorts, but the events of the day had been
against him. He had the blood of endless
generations of Connaught peasants in his
veins, and he found himself battling in vain
against the rising demon.

The whole house was like a grave ! His
blood congealed, and a cold thrill of terror
seemed to shoot along his spine. Alone
with a corpse ! He remembered his mother
lying dead there in that very room : he
had been only a boy at the time, still he
recalled it vividly. How white and thin she
had looked, poor woman, worn out with

much trouble and many tears. Suddenly
a fresh terror seized him. What if she
should come back to-night to look down at
this step-son who had used her so brutally ?
His teeth chattered at the thought. A sense
of other presences  intangible, invisible, terrible
 filled his brain with horror, and he
rose with a violent effort from his stool,
resolved to escape. Nothing should induce
him, he determined, to remain there a minute
longer.

As he approached the door a sudden loud
rap came to the other side of it. He started
violently, and hesitated, then went forward
after a moment and opened it.

It was no very formidable invasion ! Only
a couple of poor old crones, who had come up
from the village, according to custom, to do
the last offices for the dead man, and to offer,
if his brother wished it, to spend the night
in the house. The two old creatures' hideous,
mumbling, wrinkled faces were as
beautiful to Maurice at that moment as if
they had been a pair of white-winged seraphs.

Telling them to do whatever they chose, and
to get whatever they wanted, he hastily gave
them a handful of silver, took an ulster belonging
to him over his arm, and, leaving
the house, ran down the road with an elastic
sense of escape.

It was not until he had got outside that
he remembered that he had literally nowhere
else to go. To return to Miltown-Malbay
at that hour of the evening was impossible.
There was not a house in the neighbourhood
which would have consented to take him in,
and had there been even, his pride would have
forbidden his stooping to ask for a shelter
which might have been refused. Happily
the night was fine ; he could sleep anywhere,
in a cave, under a bush, in a hollow  no
matter where. Suddenly he remembered a
place where he had often lain out as a boy.
He would go there, he resolved, and, so resolving,
climbed over the nearest wall, and
betook himself along a sort of cornice or ledge
which extended for some distance above the
line of small fields in the direction of the sea.

After about half an hour's walking he
came to the place, a small pocket or hollowing
the side of the ridge. It had once probably
been a little lake or " corrie," but was
now empty, the subterranean stream which
formerly fed it having got diverted elsewhere.
It was quite dry, and on the upper
side a low but dense fringe of dwarf hawthorn
bushes sheltered it effectually against
the wind, so that even in very cold weather
a man might lie here and be, comparatively
speaking, warm. Maurice spread out his
ulster upon the bottom of the hollow, threw
himself upon it, pulling a piece over his
legs, and lay down, pillowing his head on
his hands.

The small patches of cultivated ground
were by this time all behind, and only the
rock-covered side of the landscape visible
from where he lay. Far as he could see the
grey stony waves of the Burren extended.
He could see the thin jagged line of rocks
which marked the opening to the Gortna-
coppin valley, but the eye passed over it

almost without a break. A few clouds had
gathered, and all round the western horizon
a heavy flouncing of solemn looking purple
rose above the sea. Higher up the sky was
clear and almost colourless, everything seeming
to be united in one clear uniform wash
of grey. It was extraordinarily desolate.
In the direction in which he was looking,
not a house, not a moving speck, not a
living thing of any sort or kind, was to be
seen. You might have imagined that no
foot had ever trodden the earth, no sod ever
been turned, no sower ever gone forth with
his hands full of the grain of the coming
years. Trackless, untamable, solitary, the
wide hungry-looking country sloped away
to the grey, solitary, all-devouring sea.

Under ordinary circumstances Maurice
Brady would hardly have noticed whether
it was desolate or not. He was not particularly
sensitive to external impressions, having
too much to think of generally to care
what sort of a landscape he was looking at.
Neither did he in the least mind being alone 

as a rule preferred it so few of the people
he knew were worth being with. To-day,
however, it began after a while to make
an impression upon him. He wished that
he could see something moving, if it were
only a sheep or a cow. The cold vacant
face of solitude impressed him here as the
sense of unknown and unseen companionship
had impressed him in the house, only
in a different way. He felt chilled, nervous,
forlorn, as if he had just been driven away
from all human companionship  an outcast
and an alien from all his kind.

The experience is probably not exceptional.
Loneliness is only one word, but it covers
a perfect multiplicity of sensations. Days,
weeks, months of a man's own society may
slide by without his often being even aware
of them  without the faintest sense of loneliness
coming near him. At another time a
few hours is sufficient to create a feeling
of alienation which seems to brand the very
soul, and to carry it to the uttermost brink
of despair, madness  death.

VOL. II. c

He tried to shake it off by dwelling upon
other things  upon the future. But what
future had he now ? he asked himself bitterly.
A single day, a few hours, had sufficed to
bring about the ruin of all his prospects,
all his hopes. He remembered how he used
to lie here as a boy looking out at this same
naked world of crags, pining like a young
hawk in a cage for the time when he would
be a man, when he would take his place
in the world; planning how he would distinguish
himself,  he was not very sure
how, it is true, but certainly be universally
praised and admired. It was almost inevitable
that this train of thought should bring
with it the thought of Hurrish O'Brien 
Hurrish who, of all his surroundings, had
alone encouraged him in these visions. He
could see his face  the good-natured mouth
half open with admiration and wonder ;

the eyes No, he would not see it,  he

resolved he would not. He sprang up
hastily, and, leaving his ulster behind him,
mounted a few hundred steps above the

corrie, and sat down again upon the ridge,
turning this face in the opposite direction.

Here the most prominent object was the
Donore woods and lake wliicli lay immediately
below. The dusk was fast blurring
all minor details, but he could see the outline
of the lake, and the grey mass of the
house with some white steps in front. A
few lights shone in the upper part of the
house, but the bottom was all dark and
blank. He sat here a long while with his
elbows upon his knees, not thinking definitely,
but glooming dismally over everything.
He hardly thought of Mat now.
The nearer and more personal trouble was
wearing away the other, as a stronger acid
eats out a weaker one. His own balked ambition,
his own blighted prospects, gnawed
at his heart, and seemed to rise up before
him like a bodily presence, and to reproach
him with their changed aspects. He shivered
with discomfort and bitter angry self-dissatisfaction.
Then a wind arose and made
it chilly upon the ridge, so that he shivered

again with cold, and after a while returned
to the corrie, wrapped himself in his ulster,
shut his eyes resolutely, and soon afterwards
fell asleep.

He dreamed wild confused dreams  dreams
of struggling and fighting, guns firing, men
falling over cliffs, Mat and Hurrish fighting
and struggling together, but always, somehow,
Mat attacking Hurrish and trying to
kill him, never the other way. Then he
dreamed that he was in a boat alone, he
did not know where, but the motion was
very strange,  not like that of a boat, more
as if he were being carried along over rough
ground. All at once he was struggling
in the water, only it was not water at all,
but sand, like the sands at Miltown - Mal-bay,
 great yellow waves of sand blown
by the wind, passing one over the other,
and engulfing him horribly in their depths.
Again and again he tried to escape, but
the more he tried the more they swept
down upon him, and rolled him over andover,
and filled his mouth, and his ears, and

his nostrils, and lie sank down deeper and
deeper, and there was a noise as of millwheels,
and it was all dark and horrible, and
like a grave. Then he dreamt that he saw
a coracle coming, with a bright white light
fastened in the middle of it, and in the
coracle sat his mother and Hurrish and
Alley. And Alley screamed when she saw
him, and hid her face ; and his mother
screamed too, and told him to be gone.
But Hurrish jumped into the sand and tried
to pull him out, but the sand held him fast,
and he could not get loose ; it was like pitch,
as fast as he got free in one place he was
seized in another. And all at once he perceived
that it was not sand at all, but people,
men and women, hundreds and thousands
of them,  all clamouring, and roaring, and
making hideous faces at him. And they all
shrieked with one accord that he was "an
informer ! an informer ! " and that he must
be torn in pieces. And Hurrish tried to
pull him away, but failed. And some of
the people had dog's faces, and others had

helmets like the policemen ; but most of them
seemed dead, and had their eyes shut, and
white bands under their chins. Then suddenly
Alley took up the light and held it
close to the crowd, so that he could see
them all distinctly. And the light seemed
to make the people melt as if they had
been made of wax, and they fell back little
by little, and lay in heaps, one on top of
another, until at last he saw that they
were not people at all, but seaweed. Then
Hurrish took him up in his arms and put
him into the boat, and they rowed away
together up the Gortnacoppin valley until
they came to the cabin where old Bridget
was standing stirring the pot, and when
she saw him she shrieked, and took up the
boiling pot in her hand and ran at him, and
tried to fling it over him ; and he struggled,
and they both fell together upon the floor,
and the boiling water rolled everywhere and
spread about like a new sea. And with that
he awoke and found himself upon his back in
the corrie, a newly-risen moon shining full

upon his face, and all the stony country
around swimming in a silver mist, which
almost hid the Atlantic. And he shivered
and gathered the ulster closely about him, for
the air was very chill, and soon afterwards
fell asleep again, and this time dreamed
pleasant things  of his boyhood, of Hurried's
admiration, of the great things he himself
was to do when he grew up to be a man.
But when he awoke the second time, and
found that it was daylight, one of the first
things he did was to wonder whether Mr
Cavanagh, the resident magistrate, had yet
returned from Limerick.

CHAPTER III.

alley's night thoughts.

Alley Sheehan came to herself very gradually
after Maurice had left her. For sometime
she lay upon the same spot, hardly
knowing what had happened, or why she
was there at all. The act of fainting was
so unfamiliar, that it seemed like a sort of
death  as if she had passed out of the world,
and then come back to it again. Little
by little as she recovered, all the dreadful
weight of gloom came floating slowly back
across her poor little soul, as black thunder-clouds
float back across some tiny pool or
brook. She was too utterly worn out, however,
to try and think it all out now  she who
in the course of her short simple life had

never hardly had to think before. After a
while, therefore, she gathered herself up from
the ground and began wearily retracing her
steps, turning instinctively towards what she
called her home, and crawling over the rocks
with the languid, trailing step of one suddenly
overtaken with old age.

She was met at the door by Bridget, who
hailed upon her a furious volley of abuse and
execrations, which would probably have proceeded
to yet more violent extremities but
that the old woman was too excited by the
day's events to be able to turn her thoughts
for more than a minute in any other direction.
She moved about the cabin with an
air of savage exultation, waving her hands
and crashing them down with triumph upon
every object they encountered. " At last ! "
her expression seemed to say. ' At last, ye
gods  at last ! " So visibly exultant was
she, that it was probably just as well for
Hurrish that the police did not come at once
to the cabin in search of him, or even those
professional dullards might have succeeded

for once in extracting something from lier in
her present excitement.

Alley kept out of the way as well as the
narrow dimensions of the cabin would admit
of, too weary and sick at heart even to
feel any alarm. Happily, when night came,
Bridget roughly ordered her to undress at
once and go to bed. The old woman was
in a state of constantly increasing and now
almost convulsive excitement. The boys
had come in, and had repeated what had
happened at the inquest, of which they
had formed part of the irregular audience.
Hurrish had not yet returned from Bally-vaughan,
-indeed his mother did not know
whether he intended to do so, or to try and
escape at once. She was proud, and pleased,
and excited, and horribly frightened all at
once ; above all, she was suspicious, and Alley
Sheehan was the chief object of her suspicions.
She had always regarded the girl as
an interloper  an eater of other people's bread,
an intruder where she was not wanted and
had no business to be ; and now in addition

she began to suspect lier of being a spy, a
traitor. The scene beside the dead man's
body that morning had suggested to her
violent and utterly unreasoning old wits
that Alley would be capable of betraying
Hurrish  selling him  the " polls " ! With
this idea in her mind she never allowed
the poor child out of her sight, following
her about all the afternoon with angry bloodshot
glances, as she moved to and fro about
her various household duties, trying as usual
to bring a little order into the crowded and
chronic disorders of the scene. Fortunately
for herself, Alley knew nothing of these
suspicions. And when she had given the
boys their supper, washed out the black pot
and left it with a supply of water ready to
Bridget s hand, she crawled thankfully into
the heap of rags and straw, covered with a
blanket, which she and little Katty shared
in the inner room ; and there, gathering the
child up closely first into her arms for comfort
and sustainment, worn out with the events
of the day, she sobbed herself to sleep.

When she awoke, it was still deep night,
but a moon had risen, and was sending a
thin, straggling, zigzag ray of light through
the window set in the stone wall immediately
above her bed. It was not often that
the moonlight was able to come in therefor
the window was so small that it was
only at one particular angle that it could hit
off the tiny square, barely six inches either
way  a square, alas ! carefully uttied in on
all sides, and utterly useless therefore for
the much-needed purpose of ventilation.

Alley lay for a while looking at the silver
ray, as it partially lit up the narrow, dusty
interior  the bed where the two loys slept,
the corner where a number of chickens were
reposing upon a bar of wood stuck into the
wall for their convenience, the fly-blown
prints which constituted the only approach
to adornment. Then moving carefully so as
not to awaken little Katty, who lay curled
in a pink ball with her two fat thumbs in
her mouth, she got upon her knees and lifted
herself up until she could peep through the

window  putting her face necessarily close to
the solid, greenish glass for that purpose.

After the narrow obscurity of the dim interior,
there was something startling in the
luminousness of that stony world which met
her view without. Under the wide wash of
moonlight every stone showed visibly, each
dashed in in white, as if a slight shower
of snow had lately fallen. The deep rifts
which crossed the platforms in every direction
looked black and sharp, as if ruled in
ink upon that snowy surface. Some big
night bird  probably an owl  flew by with
a sudden whirring of its wings. The wide
arch of sky was bare of cloud right down
to the very horizon, a few stars pulsating
faintly far in the dreamy West. Alley shivered,
and felt frightened at that immensity.
It seemed to confront her sternly and threateningly,
as if to demand her secret, and she
turned hurriedly back to the small room and
its overflowing occupants, with a sense of
relief and human companionship.

The door into the outer room was open,

and the moon liacl by this time found its
way in there too. Her eye mechanically
followed the white guiding finger, as it traversed
the thick darkness, heavy with human
breath, and the lingering smoke from the big
chimney. It lit upon the top of a bed  the
only one in the establishment deserving of
the name  brought there, as she knew
well, by her aunt, Mary Sheehan, upon her
marriage. A black curly head lay upon the
pillow of this bed, and the white guiding
finger, which had just travelled to the spot,
rested full upon the features of Hurrish, ashe
lay with one arm outside the blanket,
which heaved slowly up and down, under the
rhythmic rise and fall of his broad chest.

Alley had been used to seeing Hurrish
there ever since, as a child of nine years
old, she had first come to the cabin. As
to there being any impropriety or indecorum
in such close neighbourhood, such an
idea had never even distantly crossed her
imagination. She was pure as only a girl
brought up in such a state of utterly savage

innocence could be pure  pure, that is, to
 the point of barely realising the existence of
impurity. Now, however, she started up,
and gazed at him with widely-distended eyes,
as if she had seen him there for the first
time. It brought back all the terrors of
the day before with such horrible, such appalling
vividness. She seemed to live over
again the moment when she had first discovered
the dead man, and that still worse
moment when old Bridget had flourished the
blackthorn stick in her face, and had told
her, with fiendish glee, that Hurrish was the
murderer ! Was it true ? Was he, could hebe,
that dreadful thing ? AVould he be sleeping
there so peacefully  as peacefully as his
own little Katty curled up in the bed beside
her  if he had really killed Mat Brady?
A murderer she felt sure would look very
differently,  more like the ugly yellow Judas
in the picture which hung over the dresser
angry, scowling, dark,  not good and kind
like Hurrish, whose face looked pleased and
friendly even in his sleep.

Like every girl of her class and country,
Alley was perfectly well used to hearing
murder talked of, and talked of, too, without
any special reprobation. She had heard
such talk going on around her all her life,
though the deeds described were naturally
rarely called by so offensive a name. In all
these cases, however, there had been a certain
vagueness about the actual perpetrator. It
was "justice," the "society," the "brotherhood";
and the "society" has in Ireland
long since come to occupy in popular 1 imagination
the place of a despised and derided
executive. Even so Alley had often shuddered
at the ideas which the talk had called
up. Sensitive natures, however accustomed
to horrible images, rarely accept them in
their entirety. They start aside and cry,
Not that ! not that ! " They invent some
other and less terrible explanation to account
for what they hear. Even a Roman girl,
accustomed from babyhood to hearing of the
delights of the amphitheatre, must now and
then have turned sick with horror, one would

think, when first some time-honoured piece
of barbarity was enacted before her eyes,
must have implored, with streaming eyes,
that this or that particular victim might be
allowed to escape. Alley, poor little trembling
soul, was no Roman maiden, and the
harsh realities of her lot pressed with cruel
severity upon her gentle timorous spirit.
She remained there for some tim kneeling
upon the bed, suffering as only such a
spirit can suffer when brought for the first
time face to face with those hideous and,
alas ! not imaginary phantoms  Death, Suffering,
Crime. At last, with a sort of despair,
she got up, crossed the room, took down her
rosary from the nail where it hung, got back
into bed again, crossed herself, and began to
pray.

She prayed for Hurrish, for Maurice,
for herself  that she might be good, that
she might not be so frightened, that she
might be delivered from evil. As the beads
slipped one by one through her fingers, her
lips mechanically repeated the prayers given

VOL. II. D

to be recited with them. Her thoughts, however,
outflew the words. There was a native
tide of adoration, a flow of innocent love in
her spiritual nature which seemed to supply
the place of that intellect which she certainly
did not possess, and which gave her strength
in the midst of her fears. Kneeling thereupon
her miserable bed, her face uplifted,
her wide innocent eyes fixed upon the
small square of light overhead, she might
have suggested the image of some pure and
sainted soul, come from its serene abode
to visit some dark and loathsome tomb.
Her slight girlish figure, denuded of the
uncouth clothes which she wore in the
daytime, and half bathed in the stream
of white light, looked vaporous and unreal.
She was hardly herself conscious of her
body, hardly conscious of her fatigue 
even the terrors of the day before seemed
to melt away in the glow of her thoughts.
It was as if she were caught up by some
power external to herself, caught as in a
mother's arms. That was her own feeling.

Often when she prayed it did actually seem
to her as if a mother's arms were around
her. Was there not, in fact, a mother always
near ? A kind, tender, pitying mother ?
a mother whom no amount of weakness or
faultiness could weary or alienate ?

At last she began to pray for Mat Brady.
The very thought of his name frightened
her at first. She seemed to see the scene
again as she had seen it that morning 
the stony glen, the singing larks, the deadman
hideously twisted upon the ground, his
blank eyes fixed upon the sky, his hands
lying loose amongst the grass and flowers.
The shock and terror returned, and a horror
filled the air. As she went on, however,
she gathered strength, and these terrors
little by little passed away. There was a
particular prayer to be used for the dead
which she tried to remember. She could
not do so, however, so had to fall back
upon her own artless words instead. Her
innocent spirit followed the dull, brutish,
crime - encumbered one, as it fled into the

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

darkness and the mystery. As lie prayed,
this darkness seemed gradually to melt,
and a vague sense of light, of pity, and
of opening doors, to take its place. Then
the light itself grew vaguer. There was
a sensation of hovering and floating, and
sounds like birds chirping, and the buzzing
of bees. Then these all melted together
into a great silence, and poor little Alley
was once more asleep.

When she awoke again it was broad daylight.
The boys were uj) and running about,
half-dressed, and lively as crickets, and old
Bridget's harsh screaming voice was heard
calling to her from the other room to getup
at once for a lazy hussy, and bring
the child in.

She got up, feeling as if she had been
beaten, and could hardly summon energy
to collect and put on her own and little
Katty's clothes. Washing was a ceremony
for which  well-to-do, comparatively speaking,
as the O'Briens were  there was, alas,
remarkably slight provision !

When she got into the outer room Hurrish
was sitting by the fire, lighting his pipe with
a sod of "live " turf held between his finger
and thumb; Lep  his lustrous brown eyes
fixed upon his master  sitting erect beside
him. She noticed that Hurrish did not turn
round as he generally did and greet them
with a laugh and a joking word ; and although
little Katty ran u to him at once,
and caught him round the leg with her fat
pinching fingers, he allowed her to do so
without lifting her to his knee, or making
any response to her baby prattle. Bridget,
too, had lost her air of exultation, aid stalked
about the kitchen sullenly, only opening her
lips to give utterance to some word of reprobation,
usually addressed to Alley herself.
The boys were the only people, in fact, who
behaved as usual, and watched the pot and
the manipulations of their grandmother's
iron spoon with their customary air of eager,
puppy-like expectation.

Twice while she was helping Bridget to
prepare the stir about a man came to the

door, said a word to Hiirrish, and then ran
away again. He sat stolidly on by the fire,
however, his pipe in his mouth, his eyes fixed
upon the smouldering sods of turf. Suddenly
a sound of panting was heard outside 
pant, pant, pant "  like a dog hard pressed
that nears his shelter. The door was flung
open, and poor Thady-na-Taggart the "natural"
rushed in. He stood stock-still fora
moment on the threshold ; his lank hair,
blown wildly about by the wind, hung loosely
over his white vacant face ; his lack-lustre
eyes;  dazzled from the daylight  roamed
round violently in search of some one. At
last he distinguished Hurrish, and rushing
up to him, clutched him by the arms, urging
him vehemently, though silently, to get up
and come away with him. Lep barked and
sprang angrily at the new-comer, then, as if
ashamed, wagged his tail, and licked Thady's
hand. Thady, however, took no notice ; all
his thoughts evidently were concentrated
upon Hurrish. He first tried to pull him

off this stool ; that failing, put his arms bodily
round him, as if to induce him to stand uj).
Then  Hurrish still declining to yield, and
his weight being too great for him to pull him
up by main force  he began frantically pulling
off his own clothes, and hastily thrusting
the first he got loose over Hurrish's head,
evidently with the intention of dressing him
up in them.

What wild idea of exchange of identity
passed through the poor creature's bewildered
brain Heaven alone knows ! But that
it was touching in its devotion, the idea
was laughable to the last degree. Hurrish
was considerably over six feet high, and
broad in proportion ; the idiot almost a
dwarf, his ragged clothes, rain-shrunk and
sun-discoloured, would barely have covered
a third of the other man's body. At first
Hurrish simply stared, failing to realise the
meaning of the manoeuvre. When he did so,
a smile of sudden pity came into his face,
and he caught hold of poor Thady's hands

to hinder the process being carried further,
which in another minute would have left
him standing stark naked upon the floor.

There, there, Thady ! Sure I understand
what ye're main' noiv,' he said, soothingly.
" Don't be stripping of yersel' no
more, for sure the clothes wudn t cover th'
half ov me. Be aise, Thady dear ; you'll seeme
safe again, sure an' martin, whatever
happens ! "

Apparently the words failed to make any
entrance into the idiot's mind, for he remained,
his clothes half off, staring blankly,
with an expression of piteous disappointment.
The boys, who at first had remained apart,
now drew near, and stood gaping at him, as
at some strange wild animal they saw for
the first time. Suddenly Thady opened his
mouth to the widest possible extent, and
burst into loud lamentations, the first sounds
he had uttered since his entrance. Hurried
endeavoured to soothe him. Alley,
too, drew near, with an impulse of pity.

But the idiot would have none of their consolation.
Gathering the remainder of his
rags, and leaving the one that he had tried
to force upon Hurrish still lying upon the
floor, he ran towards the door, the tears
streaming down his poor face and making
long light channels upon his cheeks, flew
out of the cabin, his bare feet sounding
for a minute  patter, patter, patter  upon
the flags, and then ceasing suddenly.

There was a general pause  the boys staring
blankly at one another and at their
father, as if to ask the meaning of what
had happened. Finding, however, that he
took no notice, and quietly continued smoking,
the paramount interest of breakfast
soon resumed its dominion over their minds.
The stir about was boiling, and all the party
were sitting silently waiting for it to be
ready, when there came a new, and this time
a more formidable interruption. A sudden
startling rat-tat-tat sounded on the half-opened
door. Instinctively Alley, who was

nearest, ran to see who was there, but fell
back the next minute with a loud cry of dismay.
It seemed to her as if the whole world
had suddenly become filled with policemen !
Two were in the actual doorway, and three
more a little way off in the bohereen below !

CHAPTER lY.

THE ROAD TO JAIL.

Mr Cavanagh, the "resident" magistrate
(so called because the only one of the magistrates
not a permanent resident), had returned
from Limerick the previous evening,
and had been at once interviewed by Mr
Higgins. Upon the evidence laid before
him, he, to that gentleman's keen satisfaction,
not only issued a warrant for Hurried's
arrest, but expressed himself in high
terms of reprobation as to Mr O'Brien's
unaccountable conduct in having hesitated
to do so. Within as short a time, therefore,
as was possible after his arrest, our
hero found himself upon a car, with one
well-armed policeman beside him, and two

more upon the other side, bound for the
assize town of Ennis, there to be lodged in
jail to take his trial for murder  bail in a
ease of such gravity being, as a matter of
course, refused.

He was not particularly alarmed for his
own safety, and was able, therefore, to take
the proceedings with a considerable amount
of equanimity. He had had plenty of time to
escape had he wished to do so, but had deliberately
made up his mind against that course.
Had he done so, beggary, jure and simple,
would have stared his mother, the children,
and Alley in the face. He had little or no
money laid by, and as none of those left
could have taken on the farm, of which he
had only a yearly tenancy, within a very
short time they would have had nothing to
look to but the workhouse.

Over and above this, the mere fact of leaving
Ireland  for life, as, under the circumstances,
it must have been  would have been
little less objectionable to him than death
itself. He had never felt the faintest beckoning

towards that delectable Land of Promise
which lay upon the other side of the
Atlantic. Had he not in his youth had the
farm to look forward to, and had been forced
to emigrate, his one thought day and night
would have been to put together a sufficient
sum of money and return to Ireland
by the next ship. The only other alternative
 that of remaining in the country without
giving himself up  though a safe proceeding
enough, is a remarkably uncomfortable
one. Hurrish had seen others who
had tried it, and knew its miseries. A
week of such shuffling, skulking, shivering,
night wandering existence, would have driven
him, he knew, into giving himself up to the
police as a preferable alternative.

Going to jail  though a distinction, of
course, in itself  was not, it is true, the
precise form of distinction which he would
have chosen, but then how few are entirely
free to choose their own laurels ?
As to the danger of his incurring the further
distinction of being hung, that was

an idea to which he hardly gave a thought.
He knew the situation well enough to feel
pretty sure that the danger incurred in that
direction was of the slightest. As for what
an Englishman would probably have considered
the safest thing to do  pleading manslaughter,
or unavoidable homicide, and disclosing
the whole circumstances as they really
occurred,  that, save under seal of confession
to his priest, was an idea which would
never for an instant have visited his imagination.
In his eyes  ]probably in those of his
legal adviser also  it would have seemed an
act of simple and reprehensible self-destruction.


The road from Tubbamina to Ennis is
about as desolate a one as is to be found
in the whole west of Ireland, which, it must
be owned, is saying a good deal. Once the
rocky hills of the Burren were left behind,
the car entered upon a wide grey-green undulating
tract, treeless, featureless, almost
houseless, one low green or brown hill rising
after another in endless succession as far as

the eye could see. What cultivation there
existed was of the most rudimentary type
conceivable. Small, weedy-looking fields,
divided from the road and from one another
by dry walls of the lace-work variety, in
some places by green dykes, with a fringe of
willow or osmunda. Flakes of snow-white
bog-cotton waved over dreary patches of
swamp, and the dark heads of the reed
mace crowded hollows from which turf had
been cut and carted away. The houses,
few and far between, were for the most
part sunk below the level of the road. Atone
place three or four women were grubbing
languidly at a sickly looking plot of
potatoes ; at another two men were thatching,
who turned and watched the car sullenly
till it was out of sight. Then a
mile or more without a creature save a
stray cow on the roadside, or a sleepily-moving
ass - cart. Suddenly they rattled
round a sharp corner, and found themselves
in the middle of a, closely crowded
cluster of houses, where the people all ran

eagerly to the doors to see them go by, and
the women spat, shrieked, and shook their
fists passionately at the policemen. Another
smaller but more prosperous-looking hamlet
was passed, where a smart, newly-built chapel
flaunted its cut - stone masonry and twirling
weather-cock, and a sinister old castle
looked blackly down from a windy green hill
hard by. Just after leaving this village, in
the middle of a particularly lonely bit of
road, a wild-looking young fellow  a total
stranger to Hurrish  sprang actively over a
wall as they were passing, bounded up to
the car, though they were going at a smart
pace at the time, and asked him in rapid
Irish whether he wanted a rescue. The three
constables simultaneously pointed their guns
at him, and told him to remain there at his
peril. The young fellow, however, took no
notice, but ran lightly on, his brimless
felt hat falling back from his black curly
head, his sunburnt face and wild hawk eyes
fixed exclusively upon the prisoner : evidently
he was good for another ten miles if need

were. Hurrisli, however, shook his head.
It was not a rescue he wanted, but an acquittal,
he explained. His unknown friend
thereupon slackened speed suddenly, made
a clutch at his hand to shake it, missed it,
and disappeared immediately over another
wall. From his appearance to his vanishing
again there were scarcely three minutes.

When they got near to the outskirts
of Ennis the car stopped at a police-station,
and a short conference took place between
the constables in charge and those within.
Only one constable remained upon the car,
and he appeared to be taking no particular
heed of the prisoner. Hurrish, however,
waited quietly. He had no idea of
escaping. What would have been the use ?
It would only have been to begin the whole
troublesome business over again. Better
remain and see it out as it was.

A delicious brown trout - stream was
sweeping under a bridge a little ahead of
this point. A heron rose from its banka
few hundred yards lower down, spread

VOL. IL E

its great sail - like wings, and flew away
towards the west, its brown legs stretched
stiffly out behind it. Hurrish followed it
wistfully with his eyes as it grew gradually
smaller and smaller, until it was lost to sight
in the distance. A sudden yearning, a sudden
wild, fierce desire for liberty, swept
across him like thirst in a desert. He had
hardly realised' before that he was a prisoner,
but now it seemed as if all at once he
knew it. He could not turn back as the
heron had done ; he could not get home to
his own house and his own people ; he
was a caged animal; a beast with a rope
round its leg,  driven against his will asa
sheep or a cow is driven to the market.
To any one, but especially to so wild a
son of the soil, the first realisation of this
fact has something in it that maddens.
He looked suddenly round, first at the
sleepy, vacant country, then up and down
the road, and for a moment a thought of
escape crossed his mind. Only for a moment.

The hopelessness of the attempt
rushed back upon him forcibly. He caught
the eye of the constable, too, looking inquisitively
at him across the well of the car.
An impulse of self-respect made him relax
the eagerness of the gaze, turn his head the
other way, and resume his former air and
attitude of indifference.

A minute after the other two constables
returned, and directing the carman to take
a detour which avoided the main street, got
again upon the car and drove rapidly to the
jail. Their way lay along a dirty but tolerably
prosperous-looking street, where a number
of peasant women were bargaining for the
gorgeous crimson and magenta shawls and
petticoats hung up in tempting array along
the outsides of the shops. It was market-day,
and they were too eager to finish their
purchases, and get back to their donkey-carts,
to take much notice of the prisoner or
his escort. Hurrish gazed at it all with
the aching interest a man feels in the last

things he beholds before the doors of a
prison close behind him. Ennis, with its
crowded market-place,  the centre of all
the other smaller villages round about 
its gorgeous new cathedral; its statue of
the Liberator ; its political pretension ; its
air of bustle and importance,  was London,
Paris, Vienna, all at once to him, and this
glimpse of fashion and brilliancy was not,
even under the circumstances, without a
pleasurable excitement.

He had not much time to enjoy it, however.
The shops ceased; a line of stonewalls,
cold, high, and vacant-looking, took
their place ; they had arrived at the door
of the jail. The three constables jumped
down and took him by the arms. The door
opened, and he was marched inside. Someone
in authority advanced. Then, after a
few minutes' delay, he was marched down
a narrow passage, with iron-clamped doors
on either side ; one of these doors was unlocked,
disclosing a narrow cell about the

size of a bathing - box. Into this he was
walked, and the next minute  almost before
he had fairly realised what had happened 
the door shut behind him with an emphatic
bang.

He stood still a moment, half - stunned,
then stumbled over to the bed and sat down.
It seemed as if the concussion of the door
had shaken his ideas clean out of their usual
courses. He felt numbed and stupefied, as
if he had suddenly changed his identity
with some one else, and had not got accustomed
to the new one.

He was roused by a peculiar sensation of
discomfort. The window of the cell was set
in the outer wall of the prison, and a full
blaze of daylight was pouring through it
at that moment. It lit up every atom of
the narrow space, glaring with immaculate
whitewash, which reflected itself in twofold
brilliancy at all the corners, and threw a
responsive gleam upon the magnificently
scoured boards. Hurrish felt dazed and

giddy as a fish would have been, suddenly
exposed to so brilliant an illumination. An
unreasoning hatred for this glaring self-righteous
place, into which he had been
pushed, rose to his mind, and it was with
some difficulty that he resisted rushing
against the door and wounding himself ina
vain effort to break through. Next to
the whitewash, the worst offence  alas ! poor
Hurrish  was the ultra self-glorifying cleanliness
! The ghastly cleanliness and whiteness
together nearly made him sick. Out
of doors he was used, of course, to light,
but then no one out of doors is surrounded
by a girdle of dazzling whiteness,
a few feet from the end of his nose.
How he yearned after his own brown
weather-beaten cabin, with its smoke obscured
corners and multitudinous litter !
Was there nothing else he could look at,
he asked himself  nothing? If he had
to stay staring at those sickening white
walls for the next three weeks, he should

go mad, and that would be very nearly as
bad as being hung !

Suddenly the window itself caught his
eye. It was high up in the wall, but
by mounting upon a chair and pulling
himself upwards, he was able, by sheer
muscular effort, to get his nose and eyes
over the ledge, and this he proceeded todo.
It was strongly secured, but to his
relief he found that it looked, not into
the courtyard, but into the outer world.
By stretching upwards he could even see
a bit of the street below, and people passing
and repassing. A black-faced beggar,
with grimy professional clothes hanging
on by a few alarmingly fragile ribbons,
was leaning against the opposite wall,
stretching out from time to time a mechanical
hand for alms. An old woman, with a
basket of apples before her, was squatting
upon the ground, and at her feet a small
fair-haired child, presumably her grandchild,
was amusing itself by picking up fragments

of apple-peel, and throwing them into the
gutter. A feeling of unaccountable affection
for these strange people filled Hurrish's mind,
and the tears sprang into his eyes. The
little girl was a pretty little creature, dressed
in a single ragged garment, which left her
small limbs and neck completely bare ; against
the grimy obscurity of the wall beyond, they
looked wonderfully fresh and white. Suddenly
a car came round the corner, imperiling
the feet of the group. Hurrish, with
an impulse of alarm, instinctively stretched
out his hands as if to protect the child. A
young man was seated on the car,  a slight
active figure in a well-fitting suit of grey
tweed. He was not really at all like Maurice
Brady, still there was sufficient suggestion
of resemblance to give Hurrish first a feeling
of pleasure, to be immediately followed by
a sudden bitter start of pain. Maurice
Brady ! That was the worst of all,  the only
part of the misfortune that had overtaken
him which was unendurable. He let himself

drop from the window, and sat down
again upon this pallet, his arms and legs
falling despondently together,  a mere
nerveless heap of dejected frieze !

When he had been first told that Maurice
had denounced him, the intelligence had
roused him to a fit of violent indignation 
not against Maurice but his informant. He
absolutely refused to give any credit whatever
to the assertion. When, little by little, the
truth of it, however, began to sink into his
mind, it had produced a sort of torpor. He
could not conceive it,  could not realise it,
or get hold of the idea at all. All the time
he was standing before the magistrate, all the
time he was on the car, his thoughts kept recurring
to it, and each time with the same
dull sense of unreality. It was not merely
painful or disagreeable, but it was inconceivable
 a thing past imagination or finding
out. If Maurice had attacked him, shot him,
assaulted him in any way  that he could
have understood, for a brother, after all, is

a brother ; but to denounce him to the police,
to the Government !  " th' English government
! "  he kept repeating over and over to
himself, as if it was in the very least likely
that Maurice would have denounced him to
the Spanish or the Dutch one !

Three or four hours after he had been in
jail a warder brought him a large piece of
bread, and some broth swimming with grease.
He was very hungry, and ate with a good
appetite. He tried to get into conversation
with the man, but he turned away and shut
the door without answering. Hurrish spun
out the eating of his bread as long as he
could, but all too soon it came to an end,
and again vacuum stared him in the face.
It seemed as if he had been already weeks
in jail  as if all his previous life had been
a dream, and this the reality. The punishment
of imprisonment no doubt varies enormously,
and to so wild a son of freedom 
one to whom wind, rain, storm, all varieties
of weather were welcome, but who had never

yet spent an entire day in the house in his
life  the misery must indeed have pretty
nearly attained its maximum.

After a while he clambered up to the window
again and resumed his gaze. It was
his only link with the outer world, and as
such he clung to it. Night came on, but
still he remained. The figures below had
by that time become mere phantoms,  still
they were human phantoms, and moving
ones. By the light of the one lamp at the
corner, he saw a sooty object in coat and
hat pass an equally sooty one in petticoats
and a shawl ; then both looked back, mutual
recognitions ensued, and they stood a while
conversing amicably. A beggar was meanwhile
bawling out a song, walking leisurely
up and down the middle of the street, with
his mouth wide open. Hurrish caught a
stray word now and then  "The 
va-ga-bonds " . . . "me car-lint Paa-
a-ady Wh-a-ck." Suddenly a turnkey entered
behind and roughly desired him to get down

and go to bed. The lights were going to be
put out. He got down, and, pulling off some
of his clothes, threw himself upon the pallet.
It was as hard as a brick floor, but that
made very little difference, and within half
an hour he was sound asleep,  and so his
first day's experience of Ennis jail came to
an end.

CHAPTEK V.

MR Thomson o'bRIEN UPON THE Requirements
OF IRELAND.

Amongst the many touches of unconscious
humour with which all life and history
abounds, few perhaps are odder than the
minuteness  the inconceivable minuteness 
of the points upon which a man's good or
bad reputation turns with his contemporaries.
Ever since he had been settled at Donore,
Major Pierce O'Brien had done, or had at any
rate tried to do, everything he could think of
for the welfare and advantage of its people,
and had been rewarded with suspicion, hatred,
and ill-will, ending with repeated threats
of death. All of a sudden, by the merest
piece of chance, for declining to do what he

ought no doubt in strictness to have done,
and thereby setting himself in momentary
opposition to the established powers, he suddenly,
and at a bound, sprang from the
blackest depths of unpopularity to the very
summit of popular admiration !

Within a dozen hours of the "outrage,"
and simultaneously with the news of it, allover
Ireland had flown the news of his refusal
to sign the warrant for Hurrish's arrest,
news which was received, commented upon,
praised, or condemned according to the
politics of the hearer. In the course of
an excited and somewhat incoherent article,
that advanced organ 'The Wolfhound' had
rejoiced next morning to learn that the
once glorious and patriotic name of O'Brien
was again to be seen upon the blood-stained
banner of the people, and had commended
him, in involved but evidently complimentary
terms, upon the courage with which he
had set the Government and its brutal hirelings
at defiance. The consequence of aU
this, joined to the popular feeling in favour

of Hurrisli, had suddenly  as if with the
finger of a magician  lifted the ban that
had so long hung over Donore, and flung it
for the time being to the winds. In every
cabin upon the property, and at every wake,
fair, and local meeting of any sort, this
performance of the " master's " was the
theme of universal commendation, which
amongst his own particular retainers rose
for the moment to a pitch of absolute enthusiasm.


To no human being did this sudden and
most undeserved rush of popularity come
with more complete astonishment than to
the recipient of it. In refusing to sign the
warrant for Hurrish's arrest, Mr O'Brien had
been actuated by no sympathy, assuredly,
with the blood-stained banner of the people,
but simply by a prosaic disbelief in his guilt,
combined, it must be owned, with a small
and very private grudge against that self-satisfied
official Mr Sub-inspector Higgins.
He was no more of a Nationalist, or a Liberal
even, than he had ever been. As for opposing

the Government, and throwing himself
upon the popular side, such an idea  despite
his small private admiration for that shilly-shallying
abstraction  had never, it need
hardly be said, dawned upon his imagination.
He scoffed openly at the manifestations
of this change of popular opinion
whenever they came under his notice, but
though he scoffed, it must be owned that
in his heart of hearts he was rather pleased
than otherwise. Can you, after all, blame
him ? What friendly-minded man, who has
been condemned for years to a winter of
black looks, averted eyes, and all the hundred
and one petty proofs of inveterate dislike,
can avoid a certain thrill of pleasure
when suddenly brows clear, hats are doffed,
and faces beam with delight at his approach.
The temptation to sue for an ephemeral
popularity is greater perhaps in Ireland than
in any other country in the world, for the
reason that in none is the reward so spontaneous.
The proverbial smiles and frowns
of her climate are not more startling in

their transitions than are the often equally
unaccountable ones of her sons. Certainly
that Mr O'Brien, and all the tenants on
the estate, and all the other cottage and
small people round about, should be of one
mind upon any subject, and that subject
a murder, was a sufficiently surprising fact
to be worth recording ! There were differences,
it is true. Whereas he genuinely
believed Hurrish to have had nothing at
all to do with the matter, they as genuinely
believed him to have done it deliberately,
and applauded him heartily in consequence.
The difference you will say is considerable,
but practically it came to much the same
thing in the end.

It happened that the week after these
events had occurred, Mr O'Brien's solitude
was broken in upon by the advent of a
nephew, one Thomond O'Brien  a name that
awakens stirring memories in Clare. This
Thomond was a son of his youngest brother,
and had been wont to spend his holidays
under his uncle's roof ; indeed Pierce O'Brien,

VOL. II. F

having only daughters, had come to regard
the lad in the light of a son. And a very
masterful son he had proved, his holiday
having invariably been the signal for a sort
of pandemonium and wild licence let loose
upon Donore. He had danced jigs with the
maid-servants ; made bonfires on all the hills
around; visited every wake, faction - fight,
and wedding he could hear of in the neighbourhood
; wasted everybody's time ; made
everybody run hither and thither to do his
errands, and been universally adored  as
no O'Brien since '48 probably had been
adored.

He was only eighteen now and five years
in her Majesty's navy had not entirely subdued
the native humours of his blood. He
descended upon Donore and its inhabitants
as upon a conquered country, which he proceeded
at once to parcel out as seemed good
in his sight. As he drove along on the
car from the station, his small sharp brown
eyes gazed around him right and left with
the conquering glance of a Napoleon. To

him it was all still the "kingdom" of the
O'Briens.

To any one who only skims the merest
surface of things, there is no lack of '' diversion,"
happily, still extant in Ireland.
The fun, it is true, is on the surface, the
bitterness, discord, misery down at the roots,
in a distracted present and an unforgotten
past. Poor Pierce O'Brien knew this uglier
side of the shield only too well. The weight
of it had eaten into his heart, and into the
very marrow of his bones. He was not so
ossified in gloom, however, as to refuse to
hail the diversion with a feeling of satisfaction.
As for young Thomond, he simply and
honestly disbelieved in the gloomier side of
things altogether. As for his uncle Pierce
having ever been in peril of his life  that
he dismissed as utterly incredible and monstrous
!  a fiction of " the Government "
and the police. They were always getting
up some cock-and-bull stories or other ; they
had nothing else, poor devils, in his opinion,
to do !

He had not been half a dozen hours in the
place before everything was turned inside out,
and put upon a new footing. He got out the
boat, which had long slumbered, half full of
water, in its moss-grown boat-house, and
had it cleaned and baled. One man was
despatched for a mop, another for a ,
a third had to go and dig bait,
a fourth was sent flying to Tubbamina
for more fishing-line. Young Thomond had
inherited a considerable smack of the old
Thomond's ways, and had remarkably clear
views on the subject of getting himself
obeyed, and obeyed sure enough he was.
There was more work done and more activity
displayed in that one morning at Donore
than there had been for months, nay, years
past ; but then everybody had something todo
that was not precisely his own business,
and that in Ireland is an enormous incentive
to industry.

Pierce O'Brien stood looking pn, lifting his
eyebrows, mocking at the boy, but pleased
the while. Young Thomond was not by any

means pleased. He complained that everything
had got into a shameful state of disorganisation
during his absence.

I say, what on earth have they been
doing to the trout ? " he inquired, indignantly.
"That Pat O'Gorman says there's
hardly any in the lake now, and they used
to be as thick as peas."

Poached," his uncle responded, laconically.


Poached ! I'd poach them ! Why don't
you catch half a dozen, and run them in ? "

In where ? "

Into jail ; or give them a right good
hiding. That's what I'd do if I were

you."

They are very much more likely to give
me a hiding," Mr O'Brien replied mildly.

Half an hour later 

I say, those fellows of yours are the
greatest lot of muffs I ever saw in my life.
They're not worth twopence the whole box
and dice of them. Can't we shunt them, and
get some one else ? What's become of that

big fellow, Hiirrisli O'Brien, who used to
fish with us ? Send off for him. He's
worth a dozen of these butter-fingers. He
used to be a nailer, I remember, at night-lines."


'unfortunately he has been what you call
run in.' "

Hurrish run in ? Good Lord 1 what for ?
Not for poaching ? "

Worse than poaching."

Worse ! What's worse than poaching ? "

'murder."

Young Thomond's jaw dropped, and he
nearly let the line he was reeling fall on to
the grass.

Murder ! Look here, I say, uncle, don't
chaff a fellow," he said, indignantly.

I'm not chaffing, unfortunately."

Why, do you mean to say Pooh !

it's preposterous. Why, he used to be the
decentest fellow we had."

So he is still."

Then why do you say he's murdered someone?"


/ don't say it. On the contrary, I don't
believe it."

"Who does then?"

"The Government."

"The Government! What business, I
should like to know, has the Government
to interfere with our people ? Who do they
say he's murdered ? "

A man called Mat Brady."

I remember. Big ugly brute, with a jaw
like a hippopotamus, and a copy brother. I
don't expect les any loss, anyhow."

"Perhaps not. Still you see brutes  at
least when they happen to have only two
legs  can't be killed with impunity, can
they?"

Young Thomond shook his head, declining
to commit himself to any decision. It was
his fixed opinion that his uncle's laxity in his
dealings with his " people" was at the bottom
of half what was amiss on the property. If
Irish country gentlemen  those of the old
stock, particularly  would only put their feet
down resolutely, encourage the decent fellows,

drive all the agitators into the sea, and
bid the English Government mind its own affairs
and leave the management of Ireland to
them, everything, in that clear-sighted young
gentleman's opinion, would go as it ought
to do.

The dinner-bell rang, and he was obliged
to suspend his operations, and allow his exhausted
assistants to retire, worn out by the
unusual labours of the day, to their respective
homes. At dinner his uncle gave him
an outline of the events of the past week,
not without some satisfaction in finding
an auditor to whom to recount his version
of the points at issue between himself and
Sub - inspector Higgins. Young Thomond
more than accepted that view, and would
willingly have gone off there and then todo
battle with the miserable official who
had dared to come between the O'Brien and
his own. Who should decide whether they
were guilty or not except their own landlord?
His five years in her Majesty's navy
notwithstanding, the young gentleman possessed,

it will be observed, a cargo of ideas
of a truly distressingly antiquated description.
He was a survival, a forgotten fragment,
a small leaf from the fallen tree of
the past. " Our people," " our ways," " our
land," "our country," were words never out
of his mouth. That an O'Brien should bethe
father and protector of his people, and
that they in return should yield him a loyalty
which stopped short at nothing, even death,
seemed to him the most commonplace of
self-evident propositions. Where precisely
the boy had acquired these very defunct
ideas of his it would be difficult to say.
Absence, no doubt, had a good deal to say
to them, and had fed a stream which flowed
naturally in his blood. He had been travelling
backwards while the country and the
world had been travelling forwards. Those
five years too during which he had been
away had been five very momentous ones,
it must be remembered.

For the next few days he was too busy getting
everything to his liking at Donore, and

issuing his orders, to have time for any
longer excursion, but the third day after
his arrival he set off by himself to Gort-
nacoppin to inspect the scene of the outrage,
not without a private belief that his
observation would probably be equal to
alighting upon some clue, which the police
and " Government " between them had
hitherto failed to discover.

Leaving the edge of the lake, he clambered
up the ridge which rose immediately
above it, and got upon that narrow stony
pathway which, as the reader may remember,
ran past the Bradyss' house until it
joined the high-road, from which point you
diverged a little lower down into the Gortna-
coppin valley. It was all part of the Donore
property, and our young friend looked round
him, therefore, with all the gravity of a responsible
guardian, innocent of a certain redoubtable
Land Bill, which was at that very
moment hovering in the air, and upon the
point of descending.

He paused a moment before the Bradyss'

house, and shook his head with an air of
reprobation. He did not remember for the
moment who it belonged to, but its aspect
of filth and desolation scandalised him. A
little further down, on a small eminence
to the left of the road, he noticed a young
man sitting by himself, whose appearance
rather perplexed him. He was not a gentleman,
certainly, and yet, still more forcibly,
he was not a frieze-coated " tinint," and anything
between these two alternatives was
foreign to his previous experiences at Donore.
When he got as close as the path
ran to the spot, he perceived that it was no
other than that " copy brother " of the man
whom Hurrish O'Brien was accused of murdering,
and whose farm, he now remembered,
covered this part of the hill. This
did not seem to him to be any reason for not
stopping and speaking. He had always been
in the habit of speaking to every one connected
with the estate, and, without actually
formulating that opinion, had always concluded,
in a general way, that his notice

could never be anything but gratifying to
the recipient of it.

Hullo ! How d'ye do ? " he called out,
stopping short and nodding his head in a
friendly fashion. " You're Maurice Brady,
aren't you ? Didn't recognise you at first.
You hadn't grown a moustache when I sailed,
and that changes a fellow so. Every one is
changed about here, I think, except some
of the old chaps  they don't alter much."

He had got over the fence while he was
speaking, and advanced, holding out his hand
with the utmost affability. Maurice Brady,
however, drew back as precipitately as if
a sociable rattlesnake or cobra had been
presented at him. It was impossible for
him to have encountered any one more intensely
irritating to him in his present frame
of mind than this complacent little sailor,
who looked as if the world at large, and
Donore in particular, was a sort of holiday
kingdom, specially laid out for his entertainment
; who had that air too of unconscious
patronage which, of all varieties of

the human manner, was to Maurice Brady
the most insufferable upon earth. Even at
the shop he had always, whenever it was
possible, avoided having any intercourse with
men of his own age  those, that is, who
stood upon a higher social platform than
his own. Ladies he did not so much mind.
His self-confidence had its effect upon them ;
besides, a showman is always naturally, and
as it were officially, the superior of his female
customers. He told himself that the reason
of this dislike was on account of his deep-laid
democratic convictions : it was unendurable
to him to see a fellow - creature
who appeared to think himself better than
another. In reality, however, it was rather
that he was conscious of his democratic convictions
not being quite so deep as they
ought to have been. The will was there,
but the power, unfortunately, was wanting.
No Irishman  no Irishman born of peasant
parents at any rate  is ever genuinely and
at heart a democrat. The whole theory is
exotic  never has been, and never will be,

otherwise. Maurice Brady had done his
utmost to assimilate it, but had failed, and
the struggle told upon his manner. Instead
of that mixture of easy courtesy and self-respect
which becomes a polite citizen and
an equal, it had alternations from suppressed
servility to open surliness, and of this he was
too intelligent not to be himself aware.

Young Thomond, though a little surprised
at his manner, merely thought that he was
taken by surprise, and awkward in consequence.
Very likely he was shy  fellows
were apt to be shy when they were spoken
to by their betters. That any man in young
Brady's position could fail to be gratified
by being noticed by one in his  Thomond
O'Brien's  was an idea which would have
required a great many convincing proofs to
impress upon his mind.

I say, what an awful thing that was
about your brother," he began again in a
tone of eager cordiality. " It's perfectly
scandalous to think of fellows being murdered
like that in broad daylight, and nota

soul found to give evidence about it. Of
course, tliougli, you don't believe this ridiculous
story the Government have got hold
of against Hurrish O'Brien ? Why, he is
the last man that would have done such a
thing ! My uncle has the highest opinion
of him possible, and so have /.'

He waited a moment, but as the other still
said nothing, went on again. " I remember
his bringing you over with him once to
Donore when you were a little bit of a chap.
He was always the decentest fellow out and
out about the place, and the best tenant
too. I'd rather have him than a whole
cargo of the rest ! " Another pause, and
then : " Look here, I say, you dont believe
this rubbish of his having anything to say
to it, do you ? " he added sharply, irritated
by the other's persistent silence.

Maurice's brows had been growing darker
and darker.

I'm not going for to say whether I door
I don't," he said sullenly. " If you want
to find out about it, you'll have to wait till

the 'sizes. You'll hear enough of it then,
or you can read about it in the newspapers.
If Hurrish O'Brien is innocent, he'll be able
to prove it fast enough, and if he's guilty
it don't make much matter what other
people think about him, only what the jury
think.

Young Thomond's open boyish face darkened
sensibly, and he drew his short little
sailorly figure u|) to its full height. He was
quick to catch a hostile note ; and that the
fellow meant, as he put it to himself, to " give
cheek," there could be very little doubt.

"My uncle and I are certain he had nothing
to say to it," he said in his loveliest
tone and air.

Oh, you are, are you ? Then that settles
the matter, 0/ course !" Maurice Brady replied
with a bitter sneer.

The blood flew to young O'Brien's cheek,
and he made half a step forward. Another
minute and his fists would have been in the
other's face. Maurice watched him with a
sullen gleam of* satisfaction. Nothing could

have pleased him better or done him more
good at that moment than to have had a
hand-to-hand tussle with this complacent
young sprig of landlordism. He felt a savage
delight in the mere thought of having
him by the throat and pounding that patronising
face of his into a jelly. For a moment
the two antagonists measured one another
with their eyes. Maurice was by several years
the elder, and a good four inches the taller.
On the other hand, young O'Brien was a
mass of muscle, strong as a bull-dog, and
active as a cat  a fighter, too, by birth,
instinct, and profession, which Maurice was
not. Had the struggle come on, a good
judge would certainly have laid the betting
upon the smaller man. Happily for the
interests of peace, young Thomond's pride
was at least as strong as his pugnacity.
What, come to fisticuffs with the brother
of a " tinint " ! condescend to a scuffle by
the roadside ! He, an O'Brien of Donore !
He clenched his hands tight, and rammed
them down to the very bottom of his

VOL. II. G

pockets as a preservation against temptation
; looked the other in the face exactly
between the two eyes ; turned upon his
heels, stalked back to the fence, clambering
over it with as much dignity as was consistent
with his haste, and marched rapidly
away down the road  his head in the air,
his shoulders squared, his foolish young
face red as a turkey-cock's with suppressed
passion.

He quite forgot in his excitement his
intention of visiting Gortnacoppin, upon
which he was steadily turning his back;
forgot everything but the fact that he 
a gentleman  an officer in her Majesty's
navy  an O'Brien of Donore  had been insulted,
deliberately "checked" upon his own
lands by a common fellow, a tenant on the
estate. Once he halted with a sudden impulse
of turning back, and showing the
fellow which was the better man. His blood
was up, and thirsty for the fray. He would
willingly have given five years' pay at that
moment to have been free to gratify the

impulse. He drove it back again resolutely,
however, and marched on. No, he would
not, he would not. If it had been a stranger,
a man with whom he had no connection,
he would have allowed himself the gratification
in an instant. But a " tinint," a
fellow "off the estate,"  no, a thousand
times no ; pride, honour, everything forbade
it. To abstain was gall and wormwood,
but to yield would have been a thousand
times worse. A gentleman had to pay,
after all, for being a gentleman. No man,
he reflected, could expect to be born an
O'Brien of Donore for nothing !

CHAPTEK VI.

MAURICE TRIUMPHS OVER ALL HIS ENEMIES.

Maurice Brady looked after his retreating
figure with a fierce scowl upon his handsome
face. " Got rid of you pretty easily, me fine
sellar," he said aloud. "You didn't take
much to put you off fighting 1 no stomach
for it, had you, me young cock ? " He knew
very well that it was not the case,  that
pride, not want of pluck, was what had
hindered the other from facing him. But
even so, and though there was no oneby
to hear him, it did him good to say it.
Matters had been growing worse and worse
since the day of his brother's death. The
storm of indignation which his denouncement
of Hurrish had created, far from subsiding,

was growing louder and louder everyday.
Even at the funeral  which, despite
the elder Brady's unpopularity, had been
largely attended  not a soul had spoken
to him. He had been tabooed, sent to
Coventry  *' boycotted" in short. He had
returned the following day to Miltown-Mal-
bay, but his position there was, as he soon
discovered, if possible worse, in so far that it
brought him more forcibly into contact with
others. So intolerable was it, that a few
days afterwards he gave notice to the master
of the shop, and left hastily. The sudden
revulsion from popularity to contempt and
execration was horrible to him. The very
men who had admired, followed, imitated
him, were now the loudest in denouncing
him. The whole of that anti-English anti-legal
machinery which he had so often gloried
in, which he counted so fully on making
use of for his own ends, was turned against
him. He was in direct opposition to the
whole popular sentiment of the country. An
informer ! What more was there to be said ?

There was something bewildering to a manlike
Maurice Brady in the suddenness of this
downfall. He had been sailing along so
successfully; so buoyantly confident of the
future ; so absolutely secure of his own
powers. And now! The rapidity of the
fall made him feel literally sick. He could
have torn his hair, gnashed his teeth, and
rolled over and over on the ground from
sheer bitterness of rage and disappointment.
He was done for ! That was the long and
short of it. Everything was at an end.
His career wrecked,  finished before it had
fairly begun. Not in Clare alone, but from
one end of Ireland to the other, his name
was the signal, he knew, for contempt and
execration. Never would any Irish constituency
open its doors to receive him ; never
would his voice be heard in the halls of Westminster,
or anywhere nearer home either;
never would a single one of those visions of
success and triumph, upon which he had
floated so securely, now come true ! Even
his life as an obscure individual would, he

foresaw, be made intolerable. As soon as
the trial was over, he would have, in all
probability, to leave the country. Nay, the
voice of execration would pursue him, he
knew well, from one end of the world to
the other. Wherever an Irishman was to
be found  no mean area nowadays  there
he should find an enemy. Was ever such
cursed spite ? Did ever so damnable a fate
befall a brilliant and spirited young man
before ?

He could not turn back either, even had
he wished to do so. He had given his evidence,
and, whether he liked it or not, at
the next assizes of Ennis he must assuredly
appear. He was not at all sure that he
did wish it. Anger against Hurrish was
fast becoming, not merely a secondary, buta
primary motive. His imagination  so
vivid in everything that concerned himself
 ran perpetually forward to all the
ignominy that he had still to endure, and
backward to Hurrish as the direct cause of
it all. He ground his teeth with a vindictive

fury that was fast effacing all earlier
reminiscences of gratitude and kindliness.
They should see,  those fools who turned
their backs upon him  that insolent young
spark who had just left him,  they should
see, he thought, whether their pet could get
out of his scrape as easily as they imagined.
If there was justice  his favourite formula
in Ireland or out of it, Hurrish O'Brien,
he swore, should have the benefit of it.

He had been sitting there chewing the cud
of his anger for about half an hour after
young Thomond had left him, when another
figure appeared in sight, coming down that
little frequented path,  a stout roundabout
figure in a suit of black broadcloth, with a
high hat of surpassing thinness, a thinness
so surpassing that it seemed to reflect the
sunlight like a crow's back or a newly polished
pair of shoes. It was Father Denahy,
the parish priest of Tubbamina.

Maurice half rose with an impulse to escape.
A second impulse made him seat himself
again. Father Denahy, as every one

knew, had the eye of a hawk for a recusant
parishioner. Better stay where he was than
have the ignominy of being pursued, as pursue
him he knew very well his reverence
would, if he wanted him. In three minutes
more the priest was on a level with him,
and had made a halt in the middle of the
pathway, exactly as young O'Brien had done.
He was a big heavy-jawed man, with cheeks
somewhat upon the pattern of those of a
cod - fish. At the first glance he looked
exactly like all the rest of his order, who to
an outsider seem often as difficult to know
a23art as the individuals of a flight of crows.
Closer observation, however, disclosed a peculiar
kindliness, a sort of exuding benevolence
in the big loose-lipped mouth, and small,
round, keen-looking eyes. He had a warm
heart, a sharp temper, and a Johnsonian
capability for hatred. He kept the last two
for his political enemies, but his kindliness
was all given to his flock.

"And is that you, Maurice Brady, sitting'
there, and your parish priest standing opposite

to you ? " he began, in an irregularly
pitched Kerry brogue, and a tone of surprised
remonstrance.

Maurice rose sullenly. He would have
given a great deal to be able to turn on his
heel and walk indifferently off, but thus
openly to insult his "clergy" was more than
at present he could venture upon.

I've been wanting this week past to have
some words with you," Father Denahy went
on, in a more placable tone, '' so I'm glad to
see you where we are to our two selves.
'Tis a long time since you were at confession,
Maurice Brady," he added with sudden
sharpness.

To this the other made no reply. If he
had spoken at all, it would have been to inform
the priest that he had no intention of
ever going to confession again. Confession !
He knew better than to be taken in by that
stale trick 1

Will I expect you tomorrow ? 'Tis the
day, you know."

Still no answer.

Father Denahy waited a minute. His
anger was rising, for there was an unmistakable
air of contempt about the young man's
manner. He was too wise, however, to press
that particular point further. He knew the
character of each of his parishioners intimately,
and was aware that Maurice Brady
was a very awkward fish to tackle, much
more likely to break away altogether than to
yield to any pastoral angling, however dexterous.
After a minute, therefore, he began
again with a fresh cast.

This has been a black week for you,
me son," he said gravely; ''a black week
for others too. Those poor O'Briens ! I've
been round to their house just now, and
'tis a sad sight ! To think of Hurrish
O'Brien in Ennis jail !  Hurrish that was
the credit of the parish  never a day short
in his dues, and the best of sons and fathers,
a good father to you, too, Maurice Brady,
when you wanted one badly," he added significantly.


He watched narrowly, to see if there were

any indications of yielding, but there was
not an atom. Maurice's pale handsome face
was like a stone mask, and his eyes had a
cold light in them that was not encouraging.
His reverence tried another fly.
I was speaking to Alley Sheehan. Poor
innocent young creature ! 'tis a sad sorrow to
be laid on her, and she so young. I used
to think wan of these days you and she,
Maurice, would have been coming and asking
me to give the Church's blessing on you
both. Maybe, though, I was wrong ? "

Again he paused and watched narrowly.
He knew as well as the young man himself
did, that he and Alley had been engaged to
be married. It was better, however, if possible,
to surprise an admission than to take
it for granted.

This time Maurice was less indifferent. He
was thinking rapidly. He was as anxious
to marry Alley as ever, and if forced
to leave Ireland, as seemed inevitable, his
wish was to take her with him. He had
enough money to be able to make a fresh

start in some new place, and to leave her
behind, to hear of her marrying some other
fellow, was simply intolerable to him. That
if he called upon her to come, she would do
so at once, he had not a doubt, but in that
case it would certainly be necessary for them
to call in Father Denahy's assistance, as
nothing, he knew, would have induced her
to wait to be married till they were in
America, or wherever he might finally decide
to go. These thoughts produced at once a
corresponding effect upon his manner.

"You're right there, Father Denahy," he
said in a tone of suitable respect. '* Alley
Sheehan and me have understood one another
this good while back, and please goodness,
we'll be asking your reverence to make man
and wife of us some of these fine days, and
before very long too, most like."

Father Denahy's small eyes gleamed.
His last hook had struck home.

So soon as you've done helping to hang
Hurrish O'Brien, is it ? " he inquired mildly.

Maurice started. Even to himself the

words had a hideous sound. He rallied
quickly, however.

'Tis himself that's doing that, not me,"
he said angrily. " Do you think Fd let my
brother Mat be killed, and the man that did
it go free ? If you do, you must think me
the meanest-spirited beast that crawls upon
the face of th' earth ! "

I think you've about the blackest and the
hardest heart between this and Cork, Maurice
Brady, and that, if you wish to know, is
what I think," the priest retorted as sharply.
"I don't believe there's another  least, I
hope an' pray to God there's not  would
have thought ov doing what you've done.
Denouncing him that's given you meat and
sup, and been better nor a father to you !
Giving him up to those that care no more,
for the most part, than the crows do, whether
a man's innocent or not, so they can clap
him in prison. Why, a heathen wouldn't do
such a thing  not a black heathen  so he
wouldn't."

The attack was vigorous, and might have

been effective if brought to bear upon another
man, but it was mistaken as directed against
Maurice Brady. He was one to whom opposition
only supplies a stimulating prick of excitement.
Whatever he might feel alone 
face to face at once with the future and
the past  in the presence of an opponent
he became hard and fixed as a rock. A
priest's opinion, too, was the very last that
would have moved him. Like most advanced
Irishmen of his day, it was a distinctive
'note" with him to abjure all
priestly authority, and utterly to deride the
presumption of one of that order pretending
to interfere in politics or anything else 
strictly sacerdotal matters, of course, excepted.
His naturally supercilious face took a
cold repellent air, and he eyed the worthy
priest with a smile that was not, however,
unaccompanied by considerable inward rage.
Sure don't we know your reverence is alway
mightily partial to Hurrish O'Brien ? " he
said, with a sneer he no longer attempted to
conceal. " 'Isn't every man puts his clergy

before everything else nowadays ; nor 'isn't
every one would let his own kith and kin
starve or eat dirt, so they had the fat of the
land. Many's the fine chicken and turkey
that will find its way to other quarters than
it does if Hurrish O'Brien was once out of it
for good and all."

Father Denahy's broad ruddy face grew
purple, and the veins in his forehead swelled
with the effort to repress his rage. He had
too much self-respect, however, to descend
to the level of a scolding match, or to remain
measuring swords with an antagonist who
not merely had no respect for his cloth, but
actually made it a ground for reproach.

Hearken to me, Maurice Brady, and mind
what I'm saying to you, for these are the
last words of mine maybe you'll hear," he
said emphatically. " I denounce you ! I
throw you off ! I've done with you for good
and all, for better or worse, from this day
forth and for evermore ! Never say you
were raised in my parish, for I wouldn't
have no one think it. I wouldn't have anyone

suppose I'd ought to do with such a
black-hearted miscreant  false to his Church
and his friends, and everything he ought for
to venerate. From this day out, you're tome
as if you were dead or had never been
born, and so good-day, and the Lord have
mercy on you. Mister Maurice Brady ! "

And with a gesture of renouncement of
his two uplifted hands, that was not without
a certain sturdy dignity, Father Denahy
stalked away down the road, leaving Maurice,
for the second time that afternoon, victor
upon the field.

If he had been disposed to espouse Hurried's
cause before, it is only admitting he
was human to say that the worthy priest
was about ten thousand times more disposed
to espouse it now. From a merely parochial
matter, it had all at once sprung into a
personal one, to ensure an acquittal being
an object for which he felt prepared to
strain every nerve. Probably in his heart
of hearts he did believe him to have been
guilty, but he also, with perfect honesty,

VOL. II. H

believed that a greater injury would be
done by his being condemned than by his
being acquitted. Hurrish  some slight peccadillos
apart  had always been a credit to
the parish  a good son, husband, father,
neighbour, Catholic. For such a one to be
hung, or thrust into that sink of iniquity,
an English prison, would, in Father 's
eyes, have been a disaster of the first
magnitude  an injury at once to public
morals and to the man's own soul. He was
a warm-hearted man, and  despite Maurice
Brady's sneer  by no means a particularly
grasping one,  a peccadillo which the circumstances
of their lot is apt, it must be
owned, to engender in his cloth. He hated
England, it is true, and the English Government,
and the English connection, and
everything that even remotely pertained toit,
with a deadly hatred, which no benefits,
let them be never so accumulated, could in
any degree have modified, and which he had
proved upon a dozen platforms ; but that was
perhaps his only serious failing.

Yet what had this same detested England
done to him, after all, some impatient reader
will perhaps exclaim, that such a sentiment 
intelligible enough once  should be preserved,
like a fossil scorpion or other bottled venom,
to the misery and undoing of two countries ?
That, I reply, with the shrug of the exponent,
is an excellent, nay, an unanswerable, argument,
dear sir, in logic, but no argument at
all, unfortunately, to a deep-seated, to all appearances
an ineradicable, sense of injury,
which has its seat, not in the brains at all,
but in the blood. Hate, once engendered
there  kept alive from generation to generation
 becomes engrained, like gout or any
other hereditary disease ; and the physician
who will undertake to cure it has yet, it is
to be feared, to be born. When he is, the
Irish problem will begin to be solved.

Maurice Brady, left alone meanwhile victorious
upon his hillock, was not at first without
a few slightly uncomfortable sensations. A
priest's curse (and Father Denahy's parting
words, if not quite amounting to that.

had certainly gone some way in that direction)
could hardly fail to excite the imagination
of one who, let his private emancipation
be ever so complete, was still a Catholic, and
the son of Catholic peasants. He shook off
the feeling, however, with no very great difficulty.
After all, what could Father Denahy
do ?  that was the question ; and he was
materialist enough not to trouble his head
very greatly about any other.

Before many minutes had passed, he had
left off thinking about that side of the matter
and had turned to thinking of another 
of Alley Sheehan,  that subject having been
brought into prominence by the priest's words.
He had always, as we know, taken his engagement
to that modest little maiden with a
very leisurely and lordly ease  nay, had
wondered at himself not unfrequently for
having ever entertained such an idea at all.
It was a case of Cophetua and the beggar-maid
 a condescension only to be accounted
for by that accident of beauty which had
raised one whom he would never otherwise

have looked at into a thing to be desired 
an object which even the loveliest male could
hardly pass over without desiring to appropriate.
Possibly the fact of this slighting
habit of regarding her had, by a not
uncommon nemesis, caused her image to
strike deeper into his breast than it would
otherwise have done. At any rate, in the
first heat of his fury against Hurrish, he
had told himself emphatically that everything
was now at an end between them. It
would be intolerable to him to be married to
one who, though no real blood relationship
connected them, would still hourly and momently
remind him of his brothers murderer.
A little experience, however, proved
that it was easier for him to make up his
mind to cast her off than actually to do so.
Though of a distinctly amorous turn by
nature, he had somehow never had a genuine
love affair, save with this poor little Alley.
Others whom he might have been disposed
to court were out of his reach, while the
ordinary bouncing damsels of his own class

such, for instance, as Sal Connor  were
unmistakably not to 'his taste. Alley's
very simplicity, humility, and deep-rooted
piety were perhaps all the more seductive
from their utter unlikeness to anything in
himself ; at any rate, he found his thoughts
of late recurring to her with a frequency
that was almost humiliating. Every fresh
slight he received, every fresh proof that
his boasted power over his contemporaries
was gone for ever, sent his thoughts flying
with greater vehemence in her direction.
He longed, as he had never longed
before, to find himself beside her  to be
soothed by her gentle voice, to look into the
mild light of her great grey eyes. In the
first maddening smart of newly wounded
egotism some such tender, exacting affection
 a soft tone to soothe, a pair of admiring
eyes in which he still stands as the chief
of heroes  is to a man of Maurice Brady's
temperament not merely a want, but an
absolute craving necessity.

Since the day he had left her half fainting

upon the rocks, they had hardly seen anything
of one another. Once when he had
joined her for a few minutes on coming out
of mass, it had seemed to him that she
shrank away  probably, he told himself,
from fear of a quarrel arising between
him and some of the O'Brien faction. He,
too, had a keen dislike to anything of the
sort, and this had prevented him going to
see her at the cabin. Now, however, he
resolved that he must do so. Apart from
his own imperious need of her, it was absolutely
necessary that they should have a
serious talk before the trial came on. His
first intention of shielding her had given
way by this time to a realisation of the
absolute necessity of her appearing as a
witness. No summons had as yet, he believed,
been issued, but he was aware that
one would have to be. His own evidence,
in fact, depended largely upon being supported
by hers, and it would be essential,
therefore, to prepare her mind for this necessity.


Not without an effort  for his memory was
naturally a tenacious one  he had succeeded
in placing his brother's fate, and his own
duty as the avenger of that fate, in the
very front of his consciousness, and of fixing
all his thoughts upon it. It was the only
plank of self-respect which he had now to
cling to, and to secure such a plank was,
to a man of his type, an absolute necessity.
The very price he had paid for it
decided that. To take a step which ruins
your whole life, brands you in every one's
eyes as a heartless traitor, leaves you the
mark for every kind of insult and reprobation,
and after all fails  recoils with annihilating
effect upon yourself, but hurts absolutely
nobody else ! Could anything be
conceived more utterly unendurable to a man
to whom power in some form or other had
always been the one possession which his soul
imperiously craved  the vision of his whole
life ? He resolved that he would at once
seek out Alley, explain the whole matter to
her, and impress upon her the absolute necessity

of being guided, not by any of the
O'Brien lot, but exclusively by his judgment
and directions. Then, when he had
made this perfectly clear to her and had
received her promises, he would reassure
her with regard to any of those fears
which she might naturally have entertained
as to his deserting her. Poor little Alley !
Poor, soft, gentle, dependent creature ! How
happy it would make her to know that all
was still right between them ! that whatever
else happened she would always have
a protector  a kind, generous, affectionate
protector in him ! To be able to gratify
one's own strongest wishes, and at the same
time to perform a truly generous and magnanimous
action,  surely this is the very
climax of satisfaction !

Chapter VIL

TEAMPULL A PHOILL.

There was a spot, not a quarter of a mile
from Hurrisli's cabin, which was a favourite
resort of Alley's, and near enough, fortunately,
for her to be able to escape there and return
almost without her tyrant perceiving her absence.
It was a tiny valley, deep in the rich
grass of the Burren, sunk like an open shaft
in the middle of the rocks; and in the centre
of this small enclosure rose, grey amongst the
greenness, the remains of no less than five
chapels and monastic buildings, ruined and
roofless, but, with the persistence of their wonderful
masonry, resisting century after century
all the efforts of rain and wind storm to
subjugate and utterly make an end of them.

Though later by some centuries than the
barely human wigwam - like oratories of
Gortnacoppin, their origin and the date
of the original settlement of their monkish
architects seem to be equally lost in the
mists of the Atlantic. All that is known
is that a certain St Hic Duagh, after
whom the oldest of them is called, lived
here, and that the date of the newest and
largest  known as TeampuU a Phoill  is
believed by experts to be about the middle
of the tenth century. A small stream runs
down the middle of this tiny valley  a gay,
dancing, rippling thread of water, clear as
crystal  glad too, apparently, of the sunshine
and the freedom, but, like all other
Burren streams and rivers, rushing back
again underground, as if startled, with a
wild hurry-scurry of excited bubbles, a few
hundred yards lower down.

Coming upon it unexpectedly, there is
something singularly winning in the aspect
of this little grassy retreat  stolen, as it
were, from the surrounding savagery. Ruined

as its buildings are, there yet lingers a distinctively
human look about the whole 
an air of expectancy and invitation  which
somehow thrills the heart. The stream,
the well, the bright yellow lichens of the
walls, the broken cross which stood at the
entrance of the " thalia " or sacred enclosure,
the well-worn door-steps trodden into a
curve, where century after century the naked
or sandal-shod feet of the monks trooped to
their daily portion of prayers,  the whole
scene has a completeness, a look of habitation,
that speaks of long usage. There is
none of that cold and repellent grimness
which generally hangs over such husks and
shells of discarded habitations. Masses of
honeysuckle and dog-roses hang from the
crevices of the rocks ; the floor of the valley
is blue in spring time with small dainty-flowered
harebells, or white with tiny bed-straws.
Huge flowering leeks  a legacy, it is
said, of the monks -stand crowded into a
sheltered corner ; and in the actual doorway
of the largest church an ash-seed  fallen

Heaven knows how or from where  has
taken root between the top of the jamb
and the next stone to it, sprung into a
tree  the largest possibly in the Burren
and, summer after summer, waves its
feathery festoons in youthful verdant triumph
over its time-worn protector.

Alley loved this little glen with a sort of
personal love. The sternness of those interminable
platforms of rock above pained
her eyes, the wide-reaching panorama chilled
her spirit, but this little enclosed spot, speaking
of peace, faith, long continuance, filled
her mind with images of a tender and homely
tranquillity.

One morning, a few weeks after Hurrish
had been committed to prison, and not very
long before the time fixed for the trial,
she had finished her work early, and had
betaken herself here as usual, carrying her
knitting with her. It was one of those sunless,
rainless, vacant-looking days, very characteristic
of these western solitudes. Further
inland it would probably have been hot, but

here, upon the very brim of the Atlantic,
the air was alive, though there was very
little of it  hardly enough to stir the grass,
or the leaves of the great tree-mallows which
rose in a towering cluster out of the nettles
by the little well. It was wonderfully dreamy
in that narrow flowery nook in the middle of
the desolate Burren. All the bees that ever
visited that unprofitable hunting-ground
seemed to have collected about the masses
of yellow trefoil which linked the grass
and rocks ; a pair of water-wagtails were
flirting upon the brink of the stream ; a
flight of fieldfare kept precipitating themselves
like schoolboys, now to one side,
now to the other, of the glen ; and overhead
the wild remote cry of a passing
sea-gull fell from time to time upon the
ear.

Alley was feeling tired, and glad to get
away from the harsh, raucous voice of her
old tyrant  glad to rest in the warm soft
air, so comforting and so kindly. She sat
quietly for some time upon the edge of the

well, with her knitting in her hand, looking
down into the water. Though called a well,
it was in reality a spring, bubbling freshly out
of the ground, and enclosed with a low wall
consisting of single blocks of stone laid side
by side without mortar. A collection of
queer - looking objects lay at the bottom,
which, upon closer inspection, were seen to be
fishing-hooks, buttons, bits of tape, needles
and pins, and similar articles, thrown in from
time to time as votive offerings. Alley looked
down at them meditatively, wondering who
the different ones had belonged to, and what
their owners had wished to get in return for
them. The fish-hooks no doubt were for St
Mac Dare, the chief Connaught patron of
fishermen, to whose chapel upon the Lilian
Mac Dare opposite all passing sails were
bound to lower twice, on pain of speedy
shipwreck. The buttons and tapes had
nearly melted away, and the needles and
pins had become so rusty that they might
easily have been mistaken for small twigs
or straws. It looked, Alley thought, as if

the saint upon whom they had been bestowed
had not found any use for them.

Sounds travel far in stony and vacant
regions like the Burren, where there are no
houses, trees, or fences to break it. Alley
had not sat very long upon the edge-of her
well before a sound reached her,  a sound of
footsteps, first in the distance, then drawing
nearer, and evidently coming directly towards
her. There was no path to the glen, and so
completely was it out of the ordinary track
that except when, under some special impulse
of devotion, a woman came and threw a 23in or
button into the well  an event which rarely
happened  she had the place to herself Who
could it be? she wondered. A man evidently,
by the tread. Her thoughts flew instinctively
to Hurrish, and then stopped short
with a sudden pang. Whoever else it was,
poor Hurrish, alas ! it certainly could not be.

She was not long kept in doubt. Another
minute and Maurice Brady's head appeared
on the ridge above, near where a gap left
between the rock and the wall of one of the

chapels led into the glen. He came down
the narrow passage with a slow, deliberate
step, reached the cross which stood in
the centre of the little valley, and stood
there, his arms crossed in his favourite
Emmet attitude upon his chest, looking
down at her without speaking, while she, on
her side, looked up, startled, wondering what
he was going to say. Had anything fresh
happened ? Why had he come there to look
for her, she wondered ?

Certainly a magnificent actor, no less thana
magnificent demagogue, was lost in Maurice
Brady ! He had all the dramatic instincts,
the realisation of the value of " pose," the
ready alternatives from appeal to denunciation,
from denunciation to appeal, the cold,
quick, dominating eye, necessary for the histrionic
side of the latter part. His present
intention was to overawe, and even, if necessary,
a little alarm Alley, in order the
better to impress upon her the absolute
necessity of obeying his directions, and
abiding by his judgment in contradistinction.

II. I

tion to that of any of the O'Briens. Then
when he had firmly estabhshecl this in her
mind  he would reward her by suddenly relaxing
into greater tenderness, a warmer show
of affection than he had ever exhibited before.
He had an intense need, as we have seen, of
finding some one over whom he could still
rule  with whom his influence was still paramount,
 a soft, tender, yielding some one,
who would soothe his smarting egotism, repay
his lordly kindness with a woman's tenderness
 above all, admire and love him. It
was impossible for him to suppose that Alley
had ceased to do so  ceased to look with
pride to the thought of being his wife. What
he conceived was that she had been teased,
threatened perhaps, into promising to do
everything in her power to screen Hurrish,
should she be called upon as a witness. And
this he felt that it behoved him to put a
stop to at once  firmly, emphatically.

((

It's a lonsf while since I've seen

o

you,

Alley dear," he began, gently
Yis, invade, Maurice."

"This has been a bad time for us all,
Alley!"

'T has include, Maurice."

Then there was a little pause before he
began again.

I'm sorry to have to let you stop on
there"  pointing his finger in the direction
of Hurrish's house. " And if I could have
taken you out of it, you should have been
took before this, but, please goodness, you'll
not be in it long now."

He had planned this speech beforehand, as
the most effective method he could conceive
of proving to her that she would be expected
to give up all future connection or intimacy
with the O'Briens. Alley, however, merely
opened her great eyes wonderingly.

An' why wudn't I stop in it, Maurice ?
Sure where else have I ever stopped?" she
inquired, simply.

It was not a particularly easy question
to answer, seeing that there was nowhere
else for her to go to, and that she certainly
never had " stopped " anywhere else. It

irritated Maurice into quitting his calm tone
for a more authoritative one.

"You can't wish to stop in the house of
a man that's done what Hurrish has, surely,
Alley ? " he said, energetically. Then, as she
still showed no symptoms at all of agreement,
"Is it in the house of a murderers'
he added, harshly.

Alley winced, and quivered from head to
foot. The bolt went straight home, and shot
its cruel dart through and through her delicate
sensitive frame. They were terrible
words for her to hear  they were cruel ones
too, and, to her thinking, wicked ones, angering
almost as much as they frightened her.
All the more for their very cruelty  nay,
for their very truthfulness  she gathered
her powers to resist them. A tinge of pink
colour came into her cheeks, and her soft
eyes looked up steadily at him.

I'd stop in Hurrish's house, let him
hav dun what he wud," she said, resolutely.


Maurice started and stared open-mouthed

and speechless. Such overt rebellion was
the more astonishing from being so utterly
unexpected. That every one else in
the neighbourhood was fiercely opposed to
the part he had taken against Hurrish, he
was aware, but that Alley should also have
espoused that side of the quarrel, had not
even occurred to him. She was his property,
not Hurrish's ; what he did, she must
think right ; what he thought, she must
think also ; were they not all but man and
wife ? The case evidently called for severity.

He came a step nearer, and fixed his eyes
upon her with an air of authority. She
must be made to understand what she was
risking by her rebellion.

'attend to me, Alley, and mind what
I'm saying, for I always keep to my word,"
he said, in a tone of impressive displeasure.
"What I say I won't go back of again,  no,
not for all the begging and the praying in
the world. So sure as you stop in that there
man's house one minute longer nor I give
you leave, so sure everything will be at an

end between you and me for good and all.
I'd throw you off same as I would an old shoe,
if you was to dare disobey me. You're not
to listen to any one else at all, only to me.
You're not to obey any one at all, only me.
You're to remember that you're to be my
wife, and that if you ain't obedient, everything
will be at an end between us, out and
out. Mind that, for I always mean what
I say, and more, too."

He expected an instant change. Tears,
promises of absolute obedience, entreaties
that if he would only forgive her, she
would obey him in everything,  their courtship
had been largely made up of that sort
of thing. Nothing of the sort came, however.
Alley stood still, trembling, it is
true, and clenching her two hands tightly
together, but when she spoke her voice
was firm enough.

Thin, maybe invade, Maurice, thud be
better so," she said softly.

He sprang back as if she had flung something
at him. His expression changed. The

air of calmness and authority fell off like a
badly fitting dress, and the natural passion
of an undisciplined d under-civilised man
came to the front. She defied him, did she ?
This girl, this puny creature, whom he had
drifted into loving, he hardly knew how.
She joined the rest of them  the curs ! the
cowards ! who had turned against him, 
she threw him ofi", she dared to do so !
He stood and glared at her as a wild beast
glares before it springs.

In Maurice Brady's despite. Alley, as it
happened, was looking especially lovely that
day. The innocent wild-flower face, with its
great pathetic eyes, had that glow and soft
transcendent flush which it seemed often,
like the clouds, to catch from something external
to itself  something which filled and
irradiated it. Standing before him, with
her two bare feet upon the grass, her soft
face upraised in piteous entreaty to his
furious one  the misty gleams of sunlight
falling upon her dark uncovered head,  poor
red-petticoated Alley was a poet's dream, the

very picture of an ideal purity and innocence
confronted with dark and unknown dangers.
Now Maurice, for this misfortune, was intensely
susceptible. He had that keen relish
for feminine loveliness which seems, for some
reason, to be but rarely bestowed upon his
class. He ground his teeth savagely at the
thought of her escaping him. Never before
had he so realised her beauty ; never before
had he realised how strongly his mind was
set upon that beauty being his,  his very
own,  his chattel,  his private personal property,
like his dog or his cow. A hot furious
jealousy of Hurrish  one which, despite their
relationship, had often secretly smouldered
before,  sprang up suddenly, as if at a touch,
to full maturity. She loved him  he felt
sure of it. She oughtn't know it, probably
did not know it, but it was the fact all the
same. As long as their interests had gone
together she had been true to himself; now
that they were severed she flung him off,
without a word or a qualm. In a nature like
Maurice Brady's, jealousy for a long time,

perhaps for ever, may be kept at bay. Pride,
an innate certainty of the superiority of his
own claims to those of any other claimant
whatsoever, prevents his succumbing to it.
Let this supreme certainty, however, once be
broken down, and the same pride which
would have kept the idea of rivals far from
his thoughts becomes a lash to drive him to
distraction, a barb in the side of his anger.
It was so now. His love, which had hitherto
been a placid possession enough,  a sort of
small side rill, flowing half disregarded beside
other and more serious currents,  suddenly
became a consuming torrent, taken up into
the main channel of those others, and out-swelling
them all. Rage, jealousy, desire,
three fierce devouring wolves,  all bore
down upon him at once. He could have
caught Alley to his arms, in her own
despite, and strained her to his breast in
jealous revenge and passion rather than
love. He did not do so, however. The
"cake of custom" is strong, happily, even
over a man who considers himself to be

superior to it ; and purity is still, thank
heaven, the distinctive note of the Irish
peasant in such relations. Though custom
and instinct restrained him in this particular,
to be brutal in another way came unfortunately
only too easily and too naturally to
him.

He came close to her, his dark eyes
gleaming savagely out of a face distorted
with passion.

"D' you know what I've a mind to do,
and what I'd do if I did what was right.
Alley Sheehan ? " he said, with the slow
deliberation of concentrated fury. " I'd kill
you this minute as you stand there, and leave
you dead upon that grass at my feet. Why
shouldn't I ? What's to hinder me ? You
ain't sit to live. D'ye hear what I say 
not fit to live. You're a wicked girl  a bad,
heartless, wicked girl ! A girl who goes
back of her word isn't fit to live. Ain't
you all one and the same thing as my
wife, and a wife that turns against her husband
is a disgrace to the earth, and will

go to hell when she dies ! Ask your priest
else."

He paused a minute to gather breath, and
then went on, this time apostrophising rather
than directly addressing her.

A girl that no one else would ha' looked
at ! A girl without a shoe to her foot, ora
penny to her fortune', or learning, or manners,
or a thing ! A girl that was nothing
nor a drudge ; living on charity  and
what charity ?  bits, and scraps, and dirty
ends of things, that nobody else, not the
pigs, would touch, and beatings with that !
And I that was ready to make her me wife,
and a lady, and give her the best of eating,
and drinking, and clothes, and everything.
And what do I get? Nothing but ingratitude
 black, wicked, heartless, grovelling
ingratitude." (The last adjective was not
perhaps precisely what he meant, but, like
other orators, his stock of that commodity
had its limits.) " She'd rather stick by
Hurrish O'Brien, that's kept her in rags and
misery, than be learned by me, and do as I

bid her ! If such a one doesn't deserve killing,
there never was one in this wide world did
yet. But"  and he put his face nearer to
her, and ground the syllables slowly out oneby
one  "But I'll not kill you. Alley Sheehan,
and I'll tell ye why. If I did, you couldn't
bear witness against Hurrish O'Brien, and
'tis that you'll have to do next Tuesday three
weeks. It's you'll be called first of all, and
'tis on your evidence they'll hang him  d'ye
hear me, hang him. 'Taint no good your
thinking you'll get him off with lying either,
for that will only make them harder on him
nor ever. If you'd been true to me, I'd
have saved you all I could, and maybe not
have told what you said to me down by the
rocks yonder, but now I'll go straight to
Ennis, and tell them that's there every word
of it  how you told me that Mat was dead,
before any one else knew. And they'll know
the reason why. That it was because you
knew Hurrish had done it ; and 'tis my belief
you seen him do it, for you was always
bitterest of all against Mat, that might have

his faults, poor sellar, like another, but
wasn't a murderer anyway, like Hurrish
O'Brien!"

Poor Alley! She had sunk upon the
grass, her lips apart, her face ghastly white
and almost devoid of expression, as, with
the stupefaction of utter misery, she gazed
blankly at her tormentor. Maurice felt no
pity however. His own rhetoric had quickened
and intensified the sense of his own
wrongs, as the way of such rhetoric is. He
felt glad she suffered  glad that her punishment
had already begun. It was all true,
every word that he had said to her. She
had vowed to be his wife, and she had gone
back of her word, and Hurrish had killed
his brother, and it was his duty and his right
to avenge him. He looked at her for a
minute longer, then turned and walked deliberately
away toward the narrow passage
leading out of the glen.

Suddenly Alley's lips moved, and a
sound came from them,  a single word repeated
over and over again. " Maurice ! "

Maurice !" '' Maurice ! " she cried, like one
under the torture.

Involuntarily he paused, and looked back.
A misty gleam was streaming through the
narrow doorway of the little TeampuU a
Phoill, shining upon the golden lichen of its
roofless walls  upon the tall gable ends,
upon the well with its wall, and the tiny
rippling stream. There was an indescribable
look of appeal about the whole scene  that
wistful yearning expression which such ascetic
scenes sometimes assume  as it were a
cry from man to God, from God to man,
an appeal for peace, hope, mercy, for a tenderer
and kindlier humanity. Alley kneeling
there  her white face upraised in piteous
entreaty  seemed to echo and intensify this
appeal ; the appeal which, at all ages of the
world, and from innumerable lips, has gone
forth wherever man  the erring, the feeble,
the ignorant  affects to judge and to condemn
his brother man.

Maurice, for God's sake ! For the sake
ov th' holy crass beside ye, and the blessed

Virgin that's over us all  be merciful ! " lie
cried. *' Sure ye wudn't do it, you couldn't,
you'd never have the heart ? Is it Hurrish ?
Hurrish that was allays so good to you an'
to me, an' to every wan that come nigh him.
Think of thin poor little chiltern, Maurice !
Wud ye lave them without a dada to put
bread in their mouths ? And for me to bethe
wan to spake against him ! to share
away his precious life ! whin ye know I'd
rather rin into the say must an' be drownded
God forgive me for saying' such a thing 1
Till me ye didn't mane it, Maurice ! Till
me you wudn't go for to do such a thing 1
Sure, I know you've the good heart if we'd
only let herself hear it spake. Don't we
want to be getting' marcy all of us, an' how 'ul
we ever hope to get it if we don't show
none must ? "

He had stood still, riveted, in spite of
himself, by her look and words. They did not
soften him, however ; on the contrary, they
made his desire for revenge burn deeper.
She had turned against him ! This soft.

supplicating creature, who looked so gentle
and yielding  whom he had regarded, and
regarded still, as his own  his thing, his
creature, his property ! It was because of
HiirrisKs danger, and for Hush's sake,
that she was imploring him, not for any
other reason. The last drop of venom
seemed infused into the bitter current of
his soul.

I'll riot have marcy," he said sullenly.
D'ye think I'm going to let him kill my
brother and get off without anything ?  go
off and kill some one else most like ! I
hope to God he will be hanged, and I'd go
any distance, if it was to the very end of
this world, to see it done, so I would ! "

Alley's eyes widened slowly with horror.
Then the very extremity seemed to give her
courage, for she got up from her knees and
stood erect, trembling, but facing him.

'' Then I'll not ask ye again, Maurice
Brady," she said. " An' 'tis yersel' 'ul bethe
worse for it an' not Hurrish, for I don't
believe God 'ul ever let him be killed, for

He's merciful if you're not, an' He knows
that Hurrisli is not a bad man, whatever he
may do when the temper's on him. An' I'm
not afeared for all ye say, for there's One I've
put me trust on, that 'ul bring him out of
this, spite ov the worst you can do."

She was not thinking of any earthly assistance,
but he thought that she knew, as he
himself in fact did know, that the chance of
Hurrish being really condemned was, under
the circumstances, a very remote one, and
this, and the reproach of her words together,
put the apex to his fury.

"He may get off at Ennis, then, for
there's liars and vagabonds everywhere," he
almost screamed ; " but if he does, he'll not
get off from me, and so you may tell him !
I'll hunt him down same as I would a mad
dog ! He needn't hope to escape me  not
if he were to go and hide himself under the
sea itself ! " He was still standing beside the
cross, and, with that strongly dramatic instinct
that ran through his whole nature, he
now turned deliberately towards it. " Sure

VOL. IT. K

as God made me, and sees me now, and seen
him kill my brother Mat, so sure I swear, if
he gets off at Ennis court-house, I'll do for
him yet ! Night or day, early or late, sooner
or later, by God's help or the devil's help,
some way or other, I'll do for him ! There,
I've shivo7m it ! " and he struck his hand
down violently upon the broken top of the
cross.

CHAPTEK Viii.

IN THE Colet-HOUSE AT ENNIS.

All day long in the crowded court-house, in
the dust, and the heat, and the glare. Faces
everywhere. Cold, decorous, indifferent faces;
faces framed in wigs ; polite faces surmounted
with well-brushed hair ; faces rising serene
above black broadcloth and white spotless
linen. Behind and on either side faces, too,
more faces, nothing but faces. Wild, unkempt,
excited, perspiring faces, packed close as cattle
in a cattle truck. A few familiar ones here
and there. Old Phil Rooney, looking odd and
unnatural in his loose grey hair, without the
inevitable battered high hat. Father Denahy,
close at hand, broad, friendly, and genial, a
very sustaining point in the confusion. Hurried,

a long way off, pale and' strange-looking,
with a policeman on either side. Bridget,
excited but awed, with a huge black shawl
over her tousled hair. These were some of
Alley Sheehan's experiences of Ennis courthouse
on the day of the trial of Horatius
O'Brien for the murder of Matthew Brady.
She had been put into the witness-box about
one o'clock. Bridget, half mad with excitement,
had flown at her like a vulture a little
while before, and had hissed directions into
her ears. She was to do this, not to do that ;
she was to say this, not to say the other.
Alley, however, hardly heeded. She was
very tired, and dazed with the crowd and
unaccustomed surrounding, but she was wonderfully
calm. The scene with Maurice had
left upon her mind a sort of exaltation  a
sense of inward support. Seen by herself,
detached from the crowd around, her sweet
young face, with its peculiarly nun-like look
of innocence and purity, produced an immediate
effect, and a slight murmur of admiration
made itself heard.

She was asked how she had known that
Matthew Brady was dead before any one
else had done so, and had been made to
describe coming upon his dead body in the
glen, and running back to the cabin to tell
Bridget. Then there was a few minutes'
pause, and she began to wonder whether
it could be all over. Every pair pf eyes in
the whole building was fixed upon her. For
her own part, however, she saw no one distinctly,
it was all a mist and a confusion.
Then the counsel for the prosecution arose
a stout, burly man, the native humorousness
of whose expression was only
partially modified by a sense of his own
importance.

Now, my good girl, listen to me, and be
very careful what you say. Who did you
see in Gortnacoppin valley that morning besides
the dead man ? "

Ne'er a one 't all, place, sooner

a one 't all ? Now be careful. Think !
On your oath, did you not see Hurrish
O'Brien ? "

'Dade no, sor ; I never seen a sight ov
him."

Where did you see him last that
morning ? "

At the dure."

What cZii7e f "

Th' house dure."

What did he say to you ? "

Said he was going' to Bally vaughan,
sor."

Anything else ? "

A blush flew over Alley's soft cheek, leaving
it as pale as before.

"Said somewhat 'bout Maurice Brady,"
she murmured.

The last words were so low that no one in
the court heard them except the counsel for
the prosecution, who was nearest, and he
only the last one.

"Said something about Brady, did he?
Come now, my good girl, what was it ? " he
said, with an air of elation.

Alley did not blush again ; she hesitated
and looked unhappy.

*' Come, come, my good girl ; no prevarication.
Tell US what it was."

Said he had a good hart, sor," she murmured.


The counsel's jaw dropped, and a laugh,
beginning amongst those in front, and
spreading quickly to the crowd behind, ran
round the whole court.

Said he had a good heart ? " he repeated,
in a tone of mystification. " Nonsense, my
good girl ; don't be wasting the time of the
court like that. He couldn't have said anything
of the sort."

He did invade, sor." Alley's great eyes
were lifted for a moment to her interrogator's
face, and their expression of limpid truthfulness
it was difficult to gainsay.

Nonsense, I tell you ! Impossible ! Why,
we know that they were always enemies."

"Is it he an' Maurice ? Sure Hurrish
an' Maurice was allays friends, sor, allays 
last ways, till now," she added, with a sigh.

Oh, Maurice ! It was Maurice Brady he
said had the good heart ? "

Yes, sor  Maurice."

Oh, pooh, we're not here to make any
inquiries about Maurice Brady's heart ! Goon,
and tell the court what else Hurrish
O'Brien said to you that morning."

Nothing' more, norwich

way did he go when he left
you?"

Straight on over the racks, sor."

Would that way take him through the
Gortnacoppin valley?

Alley hesitated again, trembled, cast a wild
despairing look around for help, then, as no
help was forthcoming, murmured piteously,
"Yis, sorcery

well. Now, that second time when
you came back with Bridget O'Brien, what
happened then ? "

This was really the perilous point. Fortunately
for Hurrish, nothing at all had transpired
about the stick. It had been sought for, but
not until the next day, when it had been
found in its usual place in the corner of the
cabin, where old Bridget's instinct had told

her to replace it. Any of the men who had
seen him at Ballyvaughan could, of course,
have sworn that he had been without it
there ; but then no one, equally of course,
had chosen to do so.

Alley trembled. She, too, knew the peril
well enough. She had not yet seen Maurice
Brady, but she felt instinctively that his
eyes were upon her as she spoke. Had she
been subjected to a sufficiently severe cross-examination,
it is almost certain that her
innate truthfulness would have betrayed her,
and that she would have revealed something.
As it was, she had only to repeat what she
had already said  namely, that she was
frightened and afraid to look again at the
dead man, and so ran away and hid herself
amongst the rocks by the sea.

There were a few more questions, but
nothing further of any consequence was
elicited, and she was allowed to leave the
witness-box and return to her former place.

Father Denahy received her, spoke encouragingly,
and found a place for her beside

himself in a corner where she was a little
screened from the pressure of the crowd.

She hardly heard what Bridget, who was
the next witness, said, though, from the
shouts of laughter that ran round the court,
it was evident that the old woman was
affording that entertainment so dear to the
hearts of habitudes at Irish trials. Suddenly
she saw that Maurice Brady was in the
witness-box, and lifted her head in terror, and
tried to listen. She could not, however, distinguish
very much. He looked excited and
eager, and spoke rapidly with an air of
authority and importance. Then another
gentleman in a wig  not the one that had
questioned her  got up, and it seemed to
her that Maurice was annoyed by the questions
he asked, for she could see his face
flush and his brow darken angrily. A sullen
murmur greeted him as he, too, stepped
from the witness-box, but this demonstration
was speedily put down. Then more witnesses,
one after the other, appeared, popping up like
puppets in a puppet-show, though whether

they were speaking for Hurrisli or against
him Alley could not make out. She was very
tired, worn out by the long drive in the early
grey of the morning, and the long day in
the hot and crowded court-house ; worn out,
too, by all that she had gone through beforehand.
Her head nodded wearily, and at
last fell back against the chair. Father
Denahy had had to leave her, in order to go
and give his evidence in favour of Hurrish's
general character, which was also confirmed
by Major O'Brien and by young Thomond,
who had insisted upon being allowed to get
into the witness-box. Of this Alley, however,
heard little or nothing. She was not
sleepy, but she had reached that point of
weariness when everything becomes dreamlike.
It was perhaps only a horrible dream,
she thought, that Hurrish was being tried for
murder. His face she saw distinctly ; all the
rest was blurred, misty, undistinguishable.

At last the witnesses ceased popping up,
and then one of the wigged gentlemen rose
and began to speak  " Buzz, buzz, buzz, buzz,"

his voice went on for hours  days as it seemed
to Alley. At length, however, it came to an
end, but immediately afterwards another got
up and began a fresh "Buzz, buzz, buzz," allover
again. At last this, too, ceased, and
then there followed a long delay. She had
been given a piece of bread, which she broke
a bit off mechanically from time to time
and put into her mouth. The court-house
had now to a great extent become empty.
The gentlemen with wigs had nearly all
gone. Hurrish, too, had been taken away
by the two policemen, and there was a great
vacant place in front of her where the crowd
had lately been. The jury were deliberating.
Alley did not leave. She remained where
she was, for Father Denahy had decided
that it was best so. The comparative coolness
revived her, and she looked up at the
window in front of her. Through the dirt
and manifold cobwebs she could see a little
bit of pale blue sky and a bird flying by.
It seemed strange somehow that there should
be birds and sky still outside. It made

her think of TeampuU a Phoill, and she tried
to say a prayer, but could not for the life
of her remember any. Bridget, wrapped
in her big shawl, was rocking herself to and
fro on a bench, muttering what sounded like
curses between her teeth. Alley looked at
her, and would have liked to say something to
comfort her if possible, but was afraid  she
looked so appallingly fierce and forbidding.

She was aroused by a fresh bustle around
her,  a fresh tramp of hasty feet pouring into
the court - house. The gentlemen in wigs
were all coming hurrying in again. The
judge had taken his place ; Hurrish was
being hastily replaced in the dock. All
eyes were fixed upon the door by which
the jury were about to return.

At last it opened, and the twelve appeared.
The foreman stepped forward. He opened his
mouth to speak  a cough ! Opened it again
a second cough. What a moment for a
man to be affected with a catching in his
breath ! Opened it a third time ; and this
time a word came out  "Innocent."

It was caught up by a hundred voices 
hoarse, shrill, guttural, declamatory. A buzzing
as of ten million imprisoned bees and
wasps, suddenly escaping from a bag, filled
the building. Every frieze-coated man in or
near the court-house shouted it at the top of
his voice to his neighbour ; every arm was
waving excitedly ; every coat-sleeve bursting
at the shoulder  all Irish coats seem to have
a tendency to give way at the arm-holes;
every one struggling madly to get out into
the open air at once. Alley was helped
to her feet by Father Denahy, who took herby
the arm and almost carried her through
the crowd, warding off any excited elbows
which otherwise might have hurt her. Old
Bridget was just in front, making her way
by the aid of her own redoubtable fists and
elbows. They were outside now, in the open
air, so cold after the close and suffocating
air of the court-house. Another minute and
Hurrish himself appeared, escorted by a
couple of constabulary.

At sight of him a roar, as of a whole drove

of mad bulls suddenly broken loose, rose and
mounted skyward. The entire crowd seemed
to be convulsed. Big, broad-shouldered fellows
were sobbing like infants, thumping
one another violently for pure joy, cursing,
shrieking, blaspheming  they did not in the
least know why, but presumably for happiness.
Old Bridget flung up her two wrinkled
hands to heaven. Her attitude, however,
was certainly not one of gratitude. She
clenched her fists and shook them passionately,
as if in triumph, at the sky, uttering
shriek upon shriek as she did so, shrill and
piercing as the whistle of an express train.

Alley was too scared and bewildered to
join in all this excitement. She realised
that Hurrish was safe, and so far was
thankful, but she could not catch the
contagion. He himself kept calm, too,
amongst the commotion. The weight of
the prison was perhaps on him still. He
shook one or two of the hundred hands held
out to him and thanked their owners, but
looked around at the same time as if for a

way of escape  "There, there, boys! aise.
Arrah, God bless yis all 1 aise ! "  his voice
was heard from time to time above the tumult
in a tone of expostulation.

The car which had brought them from
Tubbamina was waiting in the market-place,
but it was impossible to get to it. A
rush was made by the crowxl to seize
Hurrish and chair him round the town  an
honour which he only succeeded by main
force in evading. In every direction hands
were held up and hats waved. People dio
had never seen him in their lives before, and
would not have cared two straws if he had
been comfortably hanged and done for, were
apparently convulsed with joy, pouring out
countless blessings upon his head, and in the
same breath cursing the Government and the
polls."

All at once, and in the very height of the
excitement, there came a new diversion  a
fresh commotion. Alley did not know why
all the people suddenly turned and ran
back towards the court-house, or why faces

that a minute before had been wet with
emotion, suddenly grew hard and hideous
with ferocity. Hurrish knew, however.
Maurice Brady had waited some time behind
to allow the tumult to subside, but
was now coming out of the court-house, and
there was a general rush to get at him.

He ran back, and, with the aid of Father
Denahy and one or two others whom they
persuaded, rather unwillingly, to help, got
between the crowd and their object, so as to
try if possible to turn this new tide of popular
excitement. Old Bridget was amongst
the first that rushed back,  not with this
object, however,  her gleaming teeth and
outstretched hands keen and hungry for
revenge. Alley for the moment was left
alone in the street. In front she saw a
dense sea of people  shoving, pushing,
screaming, elbowing; striking out madly
with sticks, and fists, and feet. Wild,
hardly, as it seemed to her, human faces,
seen sideways, with cheeks expanded and
mouths protruding ; hands held up, clutched,

VOL. II. L

brandished above the sea of heads ; lumps
of mud sent flying through the air, hissing,
" beings "  a favourite weapon just
then of offence  shrieks of women trodden
on  the very houses seemed to her to
rock and tremble with the tumult ! Presently
the crowd began to retreat backwards
towards her. Alarmed, she retreated
before them, and so they proceeded downhill
towards the market-place. Suddenly,
through a narrow lane opened through the
people, she saw Hurrish and Father 
waving their arms and expostulating,
and above  upon a flight of steps raised half
a dozen feet over the rest  she ' saw Maurice
Brady, white as a sheet, but looking down,
with arms disdainfully crossed, at the bristling
array of sticks and fists shaken menacingly
in his direction. Then a squad of constabulary
pushed their way rapidly through
the crowd, shoving the people right and left,
and rapping the more troublesome over the
head or knuckles. The gap widened ; a
flying tangle of men, women, and children

came streaming down towards Alley. Frightened,
she turned and ran before it, not knowing
what to do or where she was going. Happily
the market-place was wide enough to
disperse the crowd, and she was able presently
to find refuge in a small grocery
shop, the proprietor of which allowed her
to shelter herself, and here a quarter of
an hour later she was found by Hurrish
and Father Denahy, who came hurrying
down in search of her.

Even now they were obliged to wait, as
old Bridget was still missing. Father
Denahy offered to go in search of her,
leaving Hurrish with Alley. There was
another half-hour's delay, and then the two
appeared. Whatever antagonist the okl
woman had found to exercise her energies
upon, it was evident that for once she had
had her fill of fighting. Her hair was hanging
about her in ragged wisps ; one side of
her face showed a long black bruise ; one
of her sleeves had been torn away, leaving
the bony, stick-like arms bare. More serious

dilapidation still, she had lost her black
shawl, the hoarded treasure of years. She
did not seem to heed it, however. Her
eyes shone with the gleeful triumph of the
victor, and she reeled along the road as if
she were drunk, though, as a matter of fact,
she had tasted nothing.

They mounted the car, Hurrish and Alley
on one side, old Bridget and the priest on
the other. The affray between the people
and the police had already almost effaced the
previous excitement about Hurrish, so that
they were able to get away without difficulty,
and almost without notice. Just as
they were leaving Ennis old Phil Eooney
ran up. He had come all the way to the
trial in a donkey-cart, and was going back
the same way, and did not expect to reach
his own cabin till early the next morning.
He was breathless with haste, and with the
buffeting which he had encountered in the
street, but his wrinkled old face beamed ashe
wrung Hurrish's hand, flourished his stick
in the air, cut a wonderful caper in the dust

he had been a noted jig-dancer in his day
then ran back and clambered into his
donkey-cart, settling himself again amongst
the straw, his legs stretched out luxuriously
before him, the poor patient beast setting off
immediately, as if aware that it had twenty
weary miles of up and down hill to traverse
before it reached its mouldy straw.

It was with a sense of intense thankfulness
that Alley found herself away from all
the people, out in the open country amongst
the dull green fields and monotonous lacework
walls. As they were passing the trout-stream
close to the town, Hurrish lifted his
head and looked eagerly away to the west,
where the Burren hills were faintly discernible
in grey unevenness against a pale
saffron-coloured glow. Then he inflated his
lungs suddenly with a breath which seemed
visibly to expand his frieze coat, and almost
lift him bodily off the car !

Hardly a word was exchanged on the
drive. At first Father Denahy's voice was
heard in pastoral rebuke to the belligerent

Bridget. Finding, probably, that lie was
only wasting breath upon that unprofitable
subject, he soon subsided into silence. Once,
when they were passing a chapel, Hurrish,
who had instinctively lifted his hand to his
hat, turned with a sudden impulse to his
companion.

Ye said a bit ov a pray-er for me now
and again, Alley, did ye?" he inquired ina
whisper.

I did, Hurrish."

I thought maybe y' had."

Then they relapsed into fresh silence.

After the sun had set clouds gathered
thickly, and before they had done a third of
the distance, the rain descended in a torrent,
sending the dust flying before it in grey
scuds along the road. Father Denahy unfurled
a huge brown alpaca umbrella, and
held it over himself and his companion.
Hurrish looked at Alley with an expression
of disquietude.

"Whatll ye do 't all? Sure ye'll be
drownded," he said, anxiously.

"Arrali, I'll do well!" Lie had nothing
at all over her head, and only a thin old
woollen shawl above her cotton bodice.

He took off his own greatcoat and put it
cloak-fashion around her, keeping the flaps
for himself. When they had got within
about eight miles of Tubbamina, a miserable
heap) of small wet arms and legs
were discovered upon the roadside, which
presently unrolling itself, turned into the
two small boys, Clancy and Andy, who had
run out all this way so as to be the first
to hear the result of the trial. They were
promptly picked up and put upon the well
of the car, an elevation from which Andy
soon slid down, and settled himself into a
small pulpy bundle between his father and
Alley. She let him wriggle till he had
established himself comfortably against her
shoulder, then spread out a piece of the
capacious frieze coat and held it round him,
so that he, too, might have a share of its
shelter, and so rolled in a bundle together,
they proceeded.

When she next peeped out of her own
private corner of the penthouse, Alley's
heart gave a sudden bound. Though it was
nearly pitch - dark, she could distinguish
the wet grey limestone of the Burren. She
could see the flat tombstone - like platforms
stretching in all directions, with huge boulders
rising here and there like headstones.
Her eye followed delightedly the crooked
contortions of a fissure, as it sprawled its
ugly length through the rocks, like some
fragment of seashore, which, not content
with keeping its proper place, had stretched
inland over the entire country. To a stranger,
nothing could possibly have been more
grimly unattractive ; to Alley it was home,
peace, shelter. No more repellent to her
imagination than the native uncouthness of
some kind familiar face it has known from
babyhood is repellent to the imagination of
a little child.

CHAPTER IX.

SUNDAY IN THE BIJKREN.

The next clay was Sunday. When Alley
got up, nearly an hour later than usual,
and went to the door, the rain had vanished
in a pale blue mist. The sun was
shining brilliantly. The great flagged surfaces
shone steel-blue with reflection; the
little pools of water upon their indented hollows
were of a ruffled lapis-lazuli. Across
the valley the chapel bell at Tubbamina was
ringing for matins, and the sound came
faintly to her ear. The sea was smooth, or
seemed at this distance to be so. Three
''pookhauns," their small red - brown sails
set to the fullest possible extent, drifted
leisurely past the headland ; the grotesque

prow of a coracle, lifted high out of the
water, showing black as ink against the
luminous satin-like surface.

Hurrish and the two boys had gone off to
fish, but old Bridget still lay fast asleep in
her private lair, the sound of her sonorous
snoring filling the cabin. Alley half-dressed
little Katty, and, leaving her in the inner
room, went into the kitchen to see about
preparing for breakfast. Hurrish had lit
the fire, and put the pot on to boil, before
going out. Accordingly, she went to the
sack of oatmeal, filled a c[uart can with it,
stirred it into the water, then returned and
repeated the operation, singing softly to herself
as she did so.

Bridget, whose snores had been growing
more and more apoplectic, awoke suddenly
with a final snort, and sat up and gazed round
her, with the lowering air of some carnivorous
animal unexpectedly awakened. Then,
fetching down a comb from some obscure recess,
she made a clutch at a bundle of clothes,
and began making her toilette where she

was, her skinny arms, bare to the shoulder,
moving backwards and forwards actively as
she did so.

Alley's singing had stopped instantly. Her
terror of her tormentor was chronic, and
never ceased entirely : she always had a
feeling that Bridget might suddenly launch
some unexpected missile at her  an incident
not by any means, indeed, of unfrequent
occurrence. Little Katty  her small garments
still in a state of wild disorganised
 ran in from the other room and upto
her, turning round to have some strings
and buttons arranged. Alley knelt down
on the floor to do so, thus bringing her
face on a level with the child's. She was
about to get up, her task finished, when
Miss Katty  not a young lady generally
prodigal of caresses  flung herself suddenly
upon her, hanging on her neck like a round
ripe plum, and rubbing her little warm red
cheeks, as a kitten does, up and down the
girl's pale satiny ones.

Old Bridget, with a scowl, lifted her vult

face, and glared savagely at the
pair. She was about to growl out something,
when the doorway darkened and
Hurrish appeared, the two small boys trotting
briskly in his wake.

Breakfast that morning was quite a festivity
! Hurrish had a string of fishes in
his hands, which he proceeded to clean
and prepare for broiling, taking down at
the same time a large piece of bacon
which hung over the chimney, and giving
it to Alley to cut into slices for frying.
She did so, and when the meal was
ready waited upon them all, feeding Katty
with a spoon, and settling a dispute between
Clancy and Andy as to which was entitled
to the last slice of bacon. Hurrish insisted,
however, upon her sitting down and eating,
heaping up a goodly portion upon her plate,
and standing sentry over her until it was
finished. By the time breakfast was over
and the plates washed, it was time to begin
to get ready for chapel. Bridget peremptorily
declined going, probably on account

of the increasing blackness of one side of lier
face, the result of her martial efforts the day
before. To Hurrish, as well as Alley, this
decision was a relief. His mother's ferocious
satisfaction in his escape from the clutches
of the law did not gratify him, somehow, as
much as might have been expected. It was
so evident that her joy lay in believing him
to have been really guilty of the worst, and to
have escaped merely by dint of much vigorous
equivocation, and by favour of a patriotic
jury  not a view of the matter the pleasant-est,
perhaps, for him to contemplate.

With that reticence which is not incompatible
with the most primitive degree of
openness, he shrank from speaking upon the
subject to her, and still more so to Alley.
That the latter should have been mixed up in
it at all, gave him indeed the keenest pain,
the period of her cross-examination having
been worse to him than all the rest of the
ordeal put together. What the girl's private
view of his guilt was, he could not of course
tell, but suspected that she had come to realise

the matter pretty nearly as it really stood,
and therefore rested in that belief. To himself
the whole subject was full of quite unfamiliar
jDain, and with the indestructible
light-heartedness of his race and type, he
made haste therefore to throw it as far
behind him as possible. The hardest thing
thus to fling away and get rid of was the remembrance
of Maurice Brady's share. Even
this, however, after a while, he succeeded in
doing. Either Maurice had felt it his duty,
in some inexplicable way, to do what he
had done, or he had been led away by temper,
and for both alternatives Hurrish could
feel a brotherly sympathy. They had now
each something to forgive the other  there
was a satisfaction in remembering that  and
he cherished a hope that some day the
two offences might, as it were, balance one
another, and all be again as it had been
before.

The scene at Tubbamina, as he came down
to the chapel, with Alley and the two boys
beside him, was in the style of his reception

outside the court-house the clay before ;  the
numbers, that is to say, were smaller, but
the enthusiasm even greater. Sal Connor 
whom it is to be hoped the reader has not
forgotten  was one of the first to rush forward
and pour out tears and exultations over
his escape. Despite a succession of other
swains who in the interim had laid siege
to her hand  despite even his own hardened
ingratitude  Hurrish still retained the foremost
place in that unrelenting damsel's
affections. She had been one of the most
furious against Maurice Brady,  indeed it was
well for him that they had not chanced
to meet, otherwise he would have stood a
considerable chance of having to defend
himself against her own maidenly hands.
She had a new suitor now in attendance 
a young gentleman from Limerick, engaged
in the bacon trade  but it was evident to
all intelligent beholders that it only wanted
a word from Hurrish for that youth s chances
to vanish utterly. A man just out of jail !
Other merits apart, what patriotic maiden's

heart could hope to withstand so irresistible
a plea?

It was a long, long day of absolute idleness
-free idleness !  delicious combination
of words ! Hurrish took Lep, and went
off to the spleen, throwing himself down
upon the sands there in an ecstasy which
he would have been ashamed perhaps to
exhibit before any more critical audience.
Lep was sympathetic, however, and paid
no particular attention, beyond wagging his
tail and snapping sleepily at the flies. He
had exhausted himself in enthusiasm the
night before, and felt perhaps that it behoved
him to regain a soberer and a less
expansive deportment.

There was something luminous  almost,
as it were, Biblical  about the scene to-day.
The grey limestone hills, warm and faintly
iridescent under the hot kisses of the afternoon
sun, might have reminded a traveller of
those other limestone hills, more memorable,
for all their aridity, than the most favoured
tracts of other lands. Hurrish naturally

did not think of this, but a suffused sense of
wellbeing filled his soul, and by an association
of ideas he looked across the sea to
that point  a little south of the Aran isles
where the last well-authenticated sight of
the O'O'Brasil is said to have been obtained.
It was a position better laid down in the
mental charts of the neighbourhood than half
the genuine islands and sandbanks. Hurried
himself was troubled with no doubts at
all as to its existence. To have been so
would have been to show himself in fact no
better than an atheist, seeing that, as lately
as the time of Phil Eooney's grandfather, a
young man, blown out to sea during a squall,
had landed there, and been sumptuously entertained
for three days by the inhabitants,
who feasted him upon such rich viands as
only the Blessed eat, and imparted to him, on
leaving, many valuable secrets  '' by which
means," says a contemporary chronicler,
some seven or eight years after, he began
to practise both chirurgeon and physic, and
so continues ever since to practise, tho' he

VOL. II. M

never studied nor practised either all this
life before, as we that knew him from a boy
can aver."

It was not till the shadows, thrown backward
from the sea, were beginning to grow
long and straggling, that he got up and began
to retrace his steps, Lep following close
at heels, as if in dread of his again disappearing
mysteriously into space. When they
had got within a quarter of a mile of home,
Alley was discovered sitting upon the rocks,
with little Katty beside her ; Clancy and
Andy tumbling about together, like a pair of
young bears ; the poor old donkey, who took
Bridget to market and Hurrish's fish to ,
also rolling comfortably upon a
bit of green turf hard by, its four well-worn
legs high in air, like some unusually
dilapidated variety of bed-posts.

Alley was trying to teach the child to repeat
her " Hails," whereas Miss Katty much
preferred plucking the young leaves of sorrel
which sprouted out of the clefts of the rocks,
and nibbling them with her small front teeth,

making wry faces expressive of delighted disgust
at their tartness as she did so. Hurrish
stopped and sat down beside them, Lep moving
a little way off, with rather a supercilious
air. The colour rose to Alley's cheeks, as it
had done each time the last two days Hurrish
had come near her. It was the pleasure of
seeing him free and safe again, she told herself;
what else, in fact, could it have been?
Certainly the character of his affection for her
had sustained no change ! The bare idea
of being fond of her, in any other sense from
that in which he was also " fond " of his own
three - year - old Katty, had never dawned
upon him, nor would probably have dawned
upon him had they lived for a hundred years
together. It would have been wrong, but,
apart from that, it was not a direction in
which his thoughts strayed, or had any temptation
to stray. Why, he would have asked,
should they do so ?

Why indeed ? There seems no answer one
way or other, save the perhaps rather feeble
and unsatisfactory one of national peculiarities.

Despite his susceptibleness in other directions,
it really did seem as if Hurrish, like
so many of this type, hardly knew whether a
woman was handsome or the reverse. To be
strong and active, to have a *' lane skin," 
these he recognised as important points, but
beyond these his perceptions rarely strayed.
He had never dreamt of being "in love"
with his own poor Molly Sheehan, though
they had been the happiest of couples, and
he had mourned her loss with a passion which
would have left many a susceptible gentleman
far behind. Perhaps it is as well. If that
delusive Will-of-the-wisp, which makes wise
men foolish and sober ones mad, were to exercise
an equal ascendancy over such pieces
of touch-paper as our friend Hurrish,  if he
and such as he were to be as excitable in this
direction as they are in some others  politics,
to wit,  surely not all the rain that ever fell
upon Ireland would keep that unlucky island
from being in a state of perpetual conflagration
1

It was a happy moment, but it came to

an end only too soon. The evening was
closing in, the sun sinking like a red-hot
cannon-ball into the grey, cool breast of
the Atlantic. After a while, therefore, they
got up, and proceeded homewards, Hurrish
and Alley abreast, each holding a fat hand
of Miss Katty's in theirs ; then Lep, sniffing
the air, and passing the still recumbent
donkey with an air of superiority ;
the boys  scuffling and running after one
another  bringing up the rear. The western
sky was clear, and almost colourless, but
upon the other side, beyond the intervening
Burren hills, it was a mass of finely graduated
colour. A multitude of arrowy flames, like
the dissect of some aerial volcano, were
shooting their fiery points, one after the
other, in a continuous flight across the zenith.
They had attracted apparently even old Bridget's
attention, for she was standing at the
cabin door as the others approached, and
looking up at the sky, an expression of fierce
exultation lighting up her wrinkled face,
which seemed to be inspired by some more

exciting idea than the mere contemplation
of its beauty. '' Ked as the civil ! red as
the civil ! " they heard her mutter to herself,
as her eyes followed the blazing masses.

Hurrish nudged Alley's elbow. " 'Tis the
gran' fighting she got yesterday she's thinking'
ov," he said, with a wink.

Alley tried to smile, but she felt a sudden
shock, and her innocent pleasure fell dead.
The old woman's look and manner frightened
her. More, it gave her a vague sense of
impending trouble  a sense of something
about to happen of which others knew,
though she did not. The serenity which,
half an hour before, had fallen upon her like
a benediction, vanished, and a cold fear took
its place. She thought of Maurice Brady,
and of his words and looks that dreadful
day at Teampull a Phoill. Did he, could
he have meant what he said then ? she wondered,
or was it only a cruel threat,  a way
he had taken of punishing her ? She had
never found courage to repeat his words,
chiefly from a childish feeling that the mere

fact of doing so might somehow tend to
bring them to pass. She thought of them
constantly, however, and always with fresh
fear, always with a vivid recollection of his
look and manner, which made it difficult to
dismiss them as mere idle threats. They
lay like a dead weight upon her mind  a
weight which every sudden movement caused
to press and hurt intolerably. Thus, though
Hurrish was safe and out of prison again, the
future was not by any means wholly free
from clouds.

Chapter X.

A FLASH IN THE DARK.

Two months lead gone by since the day
of the trial. Other and equally exciting
scenes had occurred in the interval, so that
it was no longer a matter of much interest
even on the spot. It was a bad moment, ina
bad year. Though the long nights had
not yet come, there was a dangerous spirit
abroad. The harvest had in many parts been
bad, and a considerable harvest of another sort
had been reaped from its failure. All over
Ireland there had been scattered crimes, and
rumours of coming outbreaks. In lonely
cabins, far from roads, far from the possibility
of help of any kind, frightened women were
lying awake at night, trembling to see the

ill-protected door fly open, and blackened
faces appear to drag away son, husband,
father, to ill-usage, perhaps to death. On
the hills around horns were sounding at
the dead hours. The cries of tortured animals
 not less audible, perhaps, for being
inarticulate  had again and again risen for
vengeance to the sky. The whole country
was in one of its periodic fits of excitement,
terror, revolt. Vague expectations were everywhere
afloat, dreadful or hopeful according
to the anticipations of the individual. In
the more reckless and desperate spirits, a
wild belief in the speedy oncoming of some
glorious pandemonium, when the torch and
carnage would stalk over the country ; in the
more passive, a vague unquenchable expectation
of a millennium which would make
them rich, happy, prosperous, as by a
miracle In more practical heads, an eager
political ferment,  a feeling that old things
had passed away, and all things had become
new. Brave men were nervous ; sober men
excited ; every one uneasy, uncomfortable,

restless. Nowhere stability; nowhere confidence
; everywhere a feeling that ordinary
routine was henceforward set aside. Of what
use, it was asked, to slave one's self when
one might at any moment become rich without
doing so ? Still more forcibly, who buta
fool would " destroy " himself working to
pay the rent, when all the world knew that
henceforth no rents would have to be paid
at all ?

Clare has always claimed a prominent position
in times of disturbance, and it was not
behind its old fame on this occasion. Several
barns had been burned, several obnoxious
individuals waylaid and chastised, and there
were warnings of more vigorous doings still.
In no other part of Ireland had Captain
Moonlight appeared in greater force or with
more absolute impunity. An impalpable
reign of terror  invisible, but none the less
real  lay upon every one, and every man
looked distrustfully at his neighbour.

Mr O'Brien had his full share of these
troubles. No rent had been paid, of course ;

but that was merely a preliminary. Threatening
letters had again begun to form an
ordinary item of the morning's post-bag.
The momentary popularity which he had
won by his defence of Hurrish had flickered
and died. That, it was felt, was after all
only an isolated case, whereas his misdeeds
were perennial and intermittent : he asked
for rent; he professed his determination to
have it ; he declared that he could not exist
without it. Brave indeed would be the man
that defended him !

Young Thomond was still at Donor e, and
was the hardest to convince that anything
was seriously amiss with the state of the
country. One evening, however, even his
confidence got rather a shock. He had been
pooh-cooling the alarms of the newspapers,
declaring the Government and its myrmidons
to be at the bottom of half the crimes reported.
When night came, and his uncle had
retired to bed, the whim took him to go fora
midnight walk. It was a beautiful evening,
warm and soft, with a moon sleeping peacefully

over the sea, the whole world seemingly
at peace and at rest. He turned away from
the Burren, across the wider fields of the
southern part of the property. As he was
sauntering along, not far from the edge of
a lane, his hands in his pockets, and his
thoughts nowhere in particular, his attention
was arrested by a mutter of tongues proceeding
apparently from the ground below him.
Startled, he approached, and stepping quietly
up to the edge of a bank which skirted the
lane, peeped cautiously over. Four men were
crouched together under the opposite bank,
which rose steeply above their heads. Two
were lying at full length, the others squatting,
 all with weapons  they might have
been sticks, or they might have been blunderbusses
 in their hands. Young Thomond
held his breath, for he was aware that he
had stumbled upon perilous ground, and
that an incautious breath now would probably
be his last. Presently up rushed a
big sinister-looking man, exceedingly ragged,
two wild bloodshot eyes looking out under

the tattered remnants of an old felt list.
The men in the ditch sprang up to hear
what he had to say. Thomond listened
too, but was unable to catch anything.
The ragged man never ceased speaking, but
he was hardly articulate, the gurgling syllables
dying away half uttered in his throat,
and never getting any higher. After a while
all five crept stealthily away along the bottom
of the ditch, their weapons protruding
like stiff tails under their coats. Master
O'Brien waited till they had all gone, and
then went home considerably sobered, and
was observed to be much less loud about the
pacific proclivities of the county Clare for
some days afterwards.

Alone amongst the Donore tenants, Hurried
still maintained friendly relations with
Mr O'Brien. This, which under other circumstances
would have been a source of
no slight peril to himself, was in his case
allowed. There was a feeling that he had
done his part, and might be allowed to
rest upon his laurels  a theory which, it

may be said, entirely claimed in with his
own views.

Of Maurice Brady nothing had been heard
for some time. There was a rumour afloat
that he had been engaged in more than one
local misdeed  by way, perhaps, of wiping
out the recollection of his late falling away
from the popular ideal  but no proof of the
fact had been forthcoming.

Meanwhile, in the Burren at any rate, the
potato harvest promised to be excellent, and
the corn  where there was any  had ripened
as it had not ripened for years. It
had been extraordinarily still for nearly a
week, the whole coast seeming to be wrapped
in deep dreamless sleep. The sea heaved,
but its surface was hardly broken, the great
rollers flinging themselves down as if exhausted
when they reached the shore, and
passing away immediately into stillness.
The very gulls and kittiwakes seemed to
have temporarily changed their character,
and floated inertly about, like so many
farmyard ducks, upon the surface. The

smoke of passing steamers trailed behind ina
long-drawn lazy column. Now and then a
caspar would pass over the bay, beginning
at the furthermost point of lar Connaught,
turning the pale satiny greyness of the surface
into a deeper tint, and then vanishing
suddenly. Down at the rock-pools, however,
which were protected against such incursions,
the very stillness of death prevailed, the particles
of water seeming to be literally glued
together. Through this oily tenacious surface
the inquiring claw of some predatory
crab, prowling amongst the seaweed, might
have been seen now and then to rise,
gesticulating excitedly, like the hand of
some one in the act of drowning, or
those supplicating hands seen by Dante
above the lake of pitch ; then the broken
surface would settle together again, and
all would be stillness. On the fifth day,
however, this unnatural calm gave way.
Noises sounded in the air. Dark masses of
cloud rolled over the sky, and vivid weather-galls
 green, violet, and orange  appeared in

two or three directions. It was plain to
every one who knew anything that dirty
weather was coming.

Hurrish had left his coracle as usual on the
small crescent-shaped strip of sand at the
end of his own spleen. It was safe enough
there in ordinary occasions, but in very big
storms the whole of this space was covered
with foaming monsters, rolling in through the
narrow mouth, and rushing with fury against
the cliff. The tide, however, was out now,
so that there would be time enough for him
to see about it before it returned. In the
meantime, as the day drew in, and the suspicious
symptoms increased, every effort was
being made to save the little crop of oats,
which had been begun to be cut the day
before in the small triangular field nearest to
the cabin. The whole family were out together,
 the two boys. Alley, and old Bridget
collecting the bundles, while Hurrish, and
another man got in to help, laboured away
with their sickles. They were all intent upon
their work, when a sudden exclamation from

one of the boys caused them to look up. A
solid-looking wall of lead-coloured cloud,
with a thin, wicked-looking splinter of white
light where the base touched the water, was
stalking steadily in towards them over the
face of the sea. Two of the Aran isles were
already caught and swallowed up, while the
third was just beginning to be engulfed in
the maw of the monster. The Connemara
mountains, which had been extraordinarily
clear all that morning, had wholly disappeared,
and the dark mass was now laying hold of
the nearer headlands  Sandstone with its
ragged retinue of islands, and the nearer
Cashla ; clearly before another ten minutes
were past it would be upon them. They
could see distinctly the jet-black layers of
rain streaking the dun-coloured mass, a looser
outlier of cloud sweeping away south like an
advanced guard,  the sails of two or three
"pookhauns," which had been all but becalmed
an hour before, standing out like
small triangles of burnished gold against this
sinister background.

VOL. IL N

The whole party loaded themselves to their
utmost possible powers, and hurried to the
cabin with their burdens  Hurrish and the
other man speedily returning and setting to
work desperately to cut down the corner of
upstanding oats that still remained. By the
time the rest were back, the storm, though
still at bay, was creeping nearer and nearer.
It was intensely hot. The perspiration poured
down every face. The sun, shooting suddenly
from behind a pair of round-backed clouds,
blazed furiously as if excited upon the little
field in its iron setting of rocks, then suddenly
vanished, and was seen no more, and
a hollow roll of thunder followed in a slow
prolonged rumbling from the west.

By dint of desperate labour they got the
work accomplished, though before the last
arm-load was in, the rain had begun  huge
single drops falling with a dull thud upon
the dried-up surfaces of the rocks, and raising
a round white puff of dust at every
descent. It had got very dark, too, though
it was not yet sunset.

Having packed the oats into a compact
heap in the outhouse, Hurrish pulled on
an old tarpaulin cape, kept for such occasions,
tied his hat tightly round his head
with a piece of string, and set off for
the spleen. The moment he had gone, old
Bridget called Alley and ordered her peremptorily
to go and drive in the milch cow,
which was tethered some distance away.
She obeyed, though the rain was now coming
faster, and she had no tarpaulin to put on,
only her poor little thin woollen shawl, which
ten minutes sufficed to drench. She had
reached the place  a small green square shut
in on all sides by low lace-work walls  when
the long - delayed storm suddenly burst in
all its strength. The darkness grew to
blackness. The cloud-bank had touched
the shore, and straightway the sea itself 
everything, in fact, except the immediate
foreground  vanished. Great sweeping gusts
of wind bore down upon her, roaring into
her ears, like so many angry messages
delivered through speaking-trumpets, ceasing

suddenly, and then followed the next
minute by another and a yet more reverberating
roar.

Scared by the suddenness of the onslaught,
Alley looked round for some possible refuge.
Where she was there was not an atom, not
enough to protect a bird or a rabbit. Lower
down, however, a ledge of rock, projecting
a little way outwards, offered a partial
pent-roof. She ran towards it, and crouching
amongst the dense growth of loose-strife
and ragweeds which had sprung up
in the shelter, pressed herself close as
possible to the rock, so as to gain all the
shelter she could.

She was not long left in peace ! The wind,
which had hitherto been due west, suddenly
veered to the north, and the rain, instead of
falling nearly horizontally as it had hitherto
done, took a long oblique drift. It drifted into
her shelter, soaked the flowers, blew further
and further in, till there was now no more
protection than in the open field. Every
spot seemed to be flooded in an instant ;

pools stood out on the bare ridges, and a small
torrent began to run along the hollow left
at the base of the rock. What was she todo
? If Hurrish had been at home she would
have run back to the cabin. Alone she dared
not face Bridget without the cow, and to
attempt to lead it through such a storm was
evidently impossible.

Suddenly she bethought her of Teampull
a Phoill, which was only a little way off
down the hill. She had never been there
since the dreadful day of her interview with
Maurice Brady. All her pleasure in its
beauty and seclusion, all her sense of its
peculiar sanctity, had been utterly destroyed
and swept away by that terrible day. The
image of Maurice Brady  his hand upraised
to strike the broken cross  was the only one
she now associated with it. The very sight
of it was pain to her, and she had several
times made a considerable circuit in order to
avoid passing it. Some shelter, however, she
felt she must have, and there seemed to be
no choice except to go there, or to return

to the cabin, alternatives both about equally
unwelcome.

It was not a moment to hesitate. The
long slanting drifts had already saturated the
front of her dress, and her cheeks were as
wet as if she had been crying. A fresh gust
sweeping roughly along the rocky channel
decided her. She sprang u]), scampered
along the top of the ridge which had
offered her such sorry hospitality, skirting
the field where the cow, despite the storm,
was still placidly grazing ; ran down a long
decline of rocks  the rain rushing after her
and pouring in a small torrent between her
feet  round another barricade of rocks, the
last, and down the little narrow pathway
which only just found room to squeeze
itself through the defile, till she came to a
standstill, panting, in the first of the ruined
buildings, said to have been originally the
refectory of the convent, a corner of which
still retained a fragment of its original roof,
consisting of small flat pieces of stone overlapping

one beyond the other, and supported
by the two end walls.

It was nearly quite dark here, for the
storm had made havoc of the remaining
daylight. Alley, however, knew her way
as well as if it had been her own house,
and could tell precisely the position of each
of the stones, which lay in tumbled heaps
over the ground. She found a dry spot at
the very end, the furthest from the entrance,
and sat down on a sort of ridge, tucking
her feet under her, and shivering ; the wind
rushing in after her and tearing round and
round the little enclosure ; the rain spreading
out like a grey lattice - work over the
edge of the fragment of roof, the stones of
which projected in an irregular tooth-like
outline one before the other over her head.

She hoped that it would leave off soon,
and that she would be able then to return
and fetch home the cow, which even Bridget
could hardly expect her to bring through
such a tempest. There was no symptom,

however, of any cessation. The darkness
deepened, but the rain only seemed to be
growing heavier, and the wind to be steadily
rising. Now and then a jagged flash of
lightning lit up the gloomy little scene,
finding its way to every corner of the ruin,
playing bo-peep in and out of the black
window - sockets, and making a luminous
background to the tall gable-end, which
rose in a peak over the doorway opposite.

Alley was not afraid, however, for the
scene was too familiar, and even the lightning
could not make it seem strange or formidable.
She gathered her poor little cold body as
comfortably as she could into a corner, laid
her head against the wall, and waited patiently
until she could effect her escape.

She had been there perhaps half an hour,
when a sound reached her that did, however,
alarm her  a sound of some one moving
about in the space outside. She sat up,
then went a few steps forward, and peered
eagerly into the darkness. She could see
nothing, however, for the two walls on this

side made the obscurity absolutely complete.
She returned, therefore, to her former place,
and remained there still as death, her heart
beating, her eyes growing round with terror.
Some one certainly tuas there, a man apparently,
for she could hear his boots striking
against the stones. Steps too were approaching,
not hurrying wildly into shelter though,
as might have been expected on such a
night, 'but groping their way slowly and
cautiously. She could hear them coming
round the outside of the building where she
was, and presently they paused, and a figure
stopped short at the doorway opposite.

It was densely overgrown with ivy, which
hung so low that a man would have had to
stoop considerably in order to enter. Alley
could distinctly perceive a dark outline
against the greyness, but too vaguely to
distinguish any traits. The unknown is
always the terrible, and she held her breath,
hoping, praying, that whoever he was, he
might not come in. He did not do so, but
passed on after a moment towards the west

building, which was that of Teampull a Phoill.
There was a small window in her wall upon
this side, and peeping through it, she could
now distinctly see the figure of a man, and
see, moreover, that he was holding something
in his hands which he seemed to be trying
to shelter from the rain. More than this she
could not distinguish.

Another moment, and he would have been
out of sight. She could see the black silhouetted
outline making its way over the
soaked grass, and getting gradually merged
in the more comprehensive blackness of the
ruin. At that instant, as fate would have
it, another flash of lightning,  the most
vivid there had yet been,  flung its melodramatic
illumination over the whole scene.
It gleamed upon the little ruin, throwing its
low Cyclopean walls, black hollows, and tall
gable-ends into full relief. It shone upon
the wet grass, swept flat with the beating of
the rain ; upon the well with its low wall ;
upon the encompassing rocks ; ujon the
stream flowing in a thick brown torrent

down the middle of the little valley. It lit
up the figure upon the point of retreating
into the church, and as it did so, threw a
momentary but unhesitating illumination
right into Alley Sheehan's soul. The man
skulking there before her was Maurice Brady,
and the thing which he was sheltering under
his arm was a gun !

CHAPTER XL

THE Wrong Spleen.

A STIFLED cry broke from her lips. She silenced
it instantly, however. Her strongest
most instinctive impulse was to avoid drawing
Maurice Brady's attention to herself
not to let him know that she was there,
and that she had seen him. But what had
brought him? she asked herself in terror;
what was he doing there ? Above all, what
was the meaning of that gun ?

A sort of wave seemed to roll over her
brain, and then to roll back again, and a
flash, vivid as the flash of lightning, to carry
conviction to her mind. It meant danger
to Hurrish  that and nothing else was what
it meant. Maurice Brady had sworn to kill

him  sworn it upon that very spot where
they were standing  and now he was going
to do it. The conviction rose clear as a
revelation, and with it a corresponding determination
to save Hurrish. She did not
say to herself that duty required her to do
so, but her whole heart flew out to him in
agonised terror and in horror against the
other. To get to Hurrish  only to get to
him  to get him, if possible, into some
place where he would be safe, and then to
give notice to the police ; to have Maurice
seized, put somewhere, locked up  no matter
how or where  so that he could not
injure Hurrish;  these were the thoughts
which flew, not coherently, but as it were
panoramically, through her brain.

How to get away without being heard
was the first question. She no longer
thought of the rain  hardly knew, in fact,
whether it rained or not. To get to Hurrish
was her one thought, her one instinct.
Cautiously she got up, and cautiously crept
round the wall of the little refectory, feeling

iter way along its stones to the entrance.
Fortunately, with her bare feet, she could
move almost unheard ; the wind, too, favoured
her, and prevented any slight noise from being
audible. She crept down to the doorway
and peeped out. The fear of such another
tell-tale flash as had unveiled Maurice Brady's
presence was strong before her mind, and
made her keejD close under cover. She could
see the confused dark mass of the church
opposite. His figure she could no longer, of
course, see, as he had gone inside. There was
a window, though, in the wall, which told her
that it would not be safe to attempt to escape
upon that side. Were she to do so, and his
eye to turn to the window at the moment
she was passing, the chances were, she felt,
that he would catch sight of her.

That being so, the only alternative lay
between getting out of the small window
in the wall furthest from Teampull a
Phoill, or else clambering over a piece of the
same wall which had got broken down, and
part of which lay on the ground in a pile of

stones. She chose the latter, for the window
was exceedingly small, so small that she feared
that it might be impossible for her to get
through it, at any rate without making a noise.
There was a long slope of heaped-up stones
upon either side, and a small piece of still solid
wall rising out of the centre of this heap, the
upper part being utterly destroyed. Feeling
her way first cautiously with her hands,
she mounted upon the wet pile, her bare feet
giving her a firmer foothold than she would
otherwise have had. Fortunately the stones
had fallen years before, so that weeds had begun
to bind them together. Even so, it was
a difficult operation, particular in the darkness,
and against the tremendous hurly-burly
of wind and rain which assailed her the
instant she got her head above the breach.
The first time she tried to clamber up the
solid piece of wall, her foot slipped upon the
slimy stones, and she fell, hurting herself
considerably. She mounted again, however,
immediately, and this time, by a great effort,
managed to get her chest over the edge of

the wall ; then, to bring her knees on to a
level with it. A minute after she was standing
upon the top.

As she did so, another, though this time a
fainter flash lit up the glen, and, to her terror,
she saw that the window in her own ruin
exactly faced the one in the ruin opposite, so
that had Maurice Brady happened to be looking
out, her outline would have been distinctly
visible. In alarm she crouched down and
waited while the dazzling flash faded, and the
rapidly succeeding rumble of thunder also
died away, and was lost in the distance. In
the momentary lull that followed, she could
feel her heart beating like a frightened rabbit's,
expecting every moment to hear Maurice's
voice, or his steps upon the stones
below. After a while, however, as everything
remained perfectly quiet, she concluded that
she had not been seen, so prepared to get
down upon the other side. The drop was
very much deeper here, so deep that she
could not catch a glimpse from where she
was of the bottom. It might have been ten

feet or it might have been ten thousand for
anything she could see.

A fresh terror seized her, and she half
made up her mind to go back. The thought
of Hurrish nerved her, however, and facing
towards the wall, she resolutely leaned her
chest and shoulders upon it, and let her feet
drop out into the vacancy, stretching them
lower and lower in hopes of touching the
stones below. In vain. There was nothing
except the wall itself, and in that not a
single chink into which she could hook her
feet ; the old monks' work was too good, and
still after all these years presented an almost
absolutely unbroken surface to the elements.
What she would have done had she been left
to herself it is difficult to say, but at that
moment the wind took the matter into its own
rough hands. A compact gust,  the most
violent that had yet come,  came tearing
down the glen, whisking everything portable
away before it, and shaking the very stones
themselves in their sockets. It tore away
poor little Alley's feeble grasp from the top of

VOL. II.

the wall to which she had been clinging, causing
her to fall helplessly on to the stones below,
which, giving way under her feet, rolled
away with her to the very bottom.

She lay for some moments upon the
ground, stunned, and believing herself to be
mortally injured. The sudden violence of
the gust, and her own fall, made it seem more
like some deliberate personal attack than the
mere unheeding brutality of the storm. After
a while, however, she gathered herself slowly
up, the tears pouring from her eyes from
pain. She was dreadfully bruised, and her
poor little feet were badly cut by the stones,
but there was nothing actually broken. A
strong man falling in that way, and from
such a height, would probably have received
much more serious injuries, but she was so
light that she had escaped comparatively
easily.

As soon as she had realised that she was
only scratched and bruised, her courage began
to come back. Though she could not help
crying with the pain of her bruises, she

struggled to her feet, and, forgetting the poor
little shawl which had been torn from her by
the gust, staggered up the track which she
was close to now, and which led out of the
glen on to the level rocks above.

She had to sit down again here under the
shelter of a loose boulder to recover herself,
for the force of the gale was so terrific, that
she was afraid of being again knocked down.
Her task was not yet quarter accomplished.
Hurrish was still at the spleen. In order to
see him, it would be necessary, therefore,
for her to make her way across the rocks
and down the cliff  a task which might well
scare any one in the dark, and in the midst
of such a storm as was then raging.

Like a good many other apparently feeble
people. Alley, however, possessed a wonderful
amount of passive courage. Pain and discomfort,
too, were no strangers to her,  an
amount of either which would have utterly
deterred and paralysed one of a tenderer rearing,
hardly counting at all. There was no
time to lose, either. If she was to warn

Hurrish, she must do it at once. She must
get him to come back with her to the cabin.
Otherwise, the worst might happen before he
received any warning at all.

Suddenly she fancied that she heard a
sound in the glen behind her. Perhaps Maurice
Brady might be following her  might
get to Hurrish before she did ! That thought
gave her courage, and leaving the shelter of
the boulder, she struck boldly out across the
naked rocks in the direction of the sea.

The wind was simply terrific ; there was no
other word for it ! It seemed to meet her
like a solid wall, driving everything before it
as with a mighty besom. Over the naked,
slightly inclined surfaces  flat to the eye 
the water raced as over the beds of a mountain
torrent, driven in sheets by the wind.
They felt like ice under her naked feet,
those cold, rain - washed rocks, sculptured
along the edges in long narrow grooves and
channels, like the half-melted edges of crevasses.
Here and there compact masses of
hawthorn, welded together by many a previous

tempest, presented their dwarf strength
successfully to the tempest. Everything else
was blown flat, or swept bodily away. A
number of sheep and lambs, huddled close
together for protection under the edge of a
lace-work wall, were bleating piteously, and
could evidently barely keep their footing.

Alley faced it bravely. Her head down
nearly to her chest ; the solid sheets of wind-driven
rain falling upon her bare head and
neck, as if shot there through some directing
shoot. The wind seemed to meet her
with determined animosity, as though it
knew of her errand, and was resolved to prevent
her from carrying it out. The blind
monster set itself against her puny girlish
strength with the brute determination of a
bully. It seemed as if the gusts were no
longer intermittent but continuous. She
began to grow ill with the pain of her
bruises, with the fatigue of the battle, with
the eternal roar and whistle in her ears,
with the sense of opposing ferocity, with the
dreadful loneliness of this solitary unaided

tussle. Through it all, however, the thought
of Hurrish drove her on. It was like a
burning fire in her breast, and kept everything
else at bay.

Long ago she was soaked to the skin,
and had her skirt been of cotton, like her
bodice, she could hardly have continued the
struggle. Happily it was solid as a frieze
coat, or a Highlander's kilt; and though,
wet as it was, it pressed heavily round her
waist, its weight prevented it from flapping.
Her worst enemy was her own hair, which
had got loose, and at every fresh gust struck
her across the face with a blow which smarted
like whipcord.

At last she reached the brink, made clear by
the sudden rise of ground, and by the jagged
broken edges of the rocks. She could see a
slight yellowish lighting around the horizon,
and could feel, rather than see, the great
watery immensity below. But where was
the path ? Where was the spleen ? Where
were Hurrish and the boat? It was all a
mist and a void, indistinguishable as waves,

or surf, or rain, or sea, or sky, or shore  a
wild hideous chaos  as it were a gigantic
yawn, in which the very earth itself seemed
in the act of being bodily swallowed up.

Creeping cautiously along, almost upon her
hands and knees, feeling her way round every
rock, blown back continually by the wind,
and almost stunned by the roar, she followed
the edge, searching everywhere for the path.
After nearly an hour thus spent, she, to her
intense joy, hit upon it,''and began to descend.
It seemed very blind, and more impeded with
rocks than she had thought, but this, in the
confusion of the tumult, seemed only natural.
Arrived at the bottom, she peered anxiously
round her in the darkness. It was impossible
to see more than a few yards at a time,
so after a while she began to call out, at
first feebly, fearing others might hear, then
louder and louder, as despair began to gain
upon her. There was not the faintest response
! Only the roar of the wind ; only
the sough of the rain, joined now by the
louder and more battering noises of the waves

as they flung themselves in fury against the
rocks, exploring fiercely every corner of the
space in front. She could distinguish their
white teeth at the edge of the sand, and
the long, sinuous, snake-like curves running
towards her, like some sort of sea-dragons
or slimy primeval monsters, thirsting to devour.
Otherwise everything was as dark,
or nearly as dark, as in a room of which
the shutters are shut. Suddenly, groping
about the sand, she stumbled over a rock
sticking up in the middle  a peculiarly
shaped rock, with two pinnacles like church
steeples, divided by a gaping fissure. It
seemed unfamiliar, somehow. She could
not remember any rock like that in Hurried's
spleen. A terrible thought struck
her, and she looked agonisingly round, and
up at the cliff" over her head. Peering intently
into the darkness, she was able to
make out the square top of something like
a tower defined against the sky, with a
lower, heavier mass below. The dreadful
truth burst upon her in all its reality. It

was not Hurrish's spleen, but another ! In
the confusion of her search she must have
wandered further than she had known, and
made her way down another track, which she
remembered to have once descended before,
and which led from an old and now uninhabited
castle belonging to the Macmorroughs.
It was all over then ! She would never be intime
to warn him ! Her struggles, her suffering
were all for nothing! The disappointment,
the blank despair, coming at the end
of all her previous fatigues, struck down upon
the feeble remains of her strength like a
crowbar. And, with a cry, lost in the roar
and shriek of the storm, poor Alley sank
upon the ground, utterly incapable of moving
another step.

CHAPTER XII.

HURRISH SEES THE DEATH Speer.

Meanwhile Hurrish had had his hands
full. When he first reached the spleen the
tide was still going out, and the sea had
not even begun to rise, the smooth rollers,
deflected by the strutting horns of the bay,
reaching the sand in the most innocent of
waves, the long rhythmic sweep racing round
and round the little bay, carrying their low
white crests in a sort of skating curve along
the sand, and rushing in mere playful exuberance
over the low weed-covered rocks
amongst which it ended.

It seemed folly not to try and get the boat
round to Tubbamina, where, whatever storm
might come, it would be safe. Accordingly,

Hurrisli pulled it down to the brink, pushed
it into the water, waded after, sprang in, took
to his oars and rowed rapidly out through
the narrow horse-shoe-shaped opening.

He had just got beyond the rocks when
the storm broke. In an instant he was in
the thick of it. The darkness descended like
a pillar of cloud ; the rain flew at his face,
as a cat flies, with all its claws outstretched.
The water began to bubble and boil. Multitudes
of cross currents  the confused uncertainty
of the frightened crowd before it
had settled itself in one direction  making
the coracle curvet and prance like a skittish
horse. Still Hurrish pulled steadily on.
To a stranger few boats are more alarming
than a coracle. The slightest sea sets it
tossing like a bubble. Down it goes into
the very depths of the hollows, rocking the
next like a cork upon the very brim of
the ridges ; sea - sickness itself, if you are
addicted to so lamentable an infirmity, gives
way to sheer panic. Once accustomed to its
ways, however, this very buoyancy gives confidence.

It will ride like a duck over a sea
that would swamp a more pretentious craft
as readily as it would a stable bucket. Hurried,
of course, had absolute confidence in his
own boat, and as far as the danger of a capsize
went, would have taken it out in any gale.

So far, however, the storm had only been
preluding, and had plenty of arrows still in
reserve. That sudden change to the northwest,
which had driven Alley from her refuge
under the ledge of rocks, caught Hurried
in mid-sea, and in the very teeth. If
he had had a sail he would infallibly have
been capsized. Even as it was, the coracle
seemed for a moment to buzz like a top,
then, like a checked top, to come to a
complete standstill. He set his strength
to the oar, and toiled at it like a galley-slave,
the bull voiced monster roaring threats
the while into his ears, and buffeting him
actively over the head. It was a regular
hand-to-hand duel. Whenever he gained
a few yards, fresh succour seemed to come
pouring in to his adversaries, and bearing

down upon him. He was one, and they
were a host, with other hosts, too, behind
that host. Still it seemed to himself that
he was gaining ; Tubbamina was certainly-nearer
than it had been ten minutes before.
Suddenly, as ill luck  worse luck even than
he knew of  would have it, there came a defection
upon his own side. Above the roar
and the hurly-burly he heard, or rather felt,
another sound, a small one, but worse than
all the rest put together. The oars were
old, and, though carefully spliced and mended,
were not equal to being the point of resistance
between two such combatants. There
was a faint crack, and looking down, he saw
that one of them had given way at the
splicing, a little above where it rested upon
the rOwlocks. With breathing-time he could
have made it good, but in the teeth of such
a gale it was obviously impossible.

Reluctantly he was obliged to let the
coracle go about, a victory which the wind
celebrated with a fresh roar, catching it
broadside-on, and sending a bucket or two

of water to the bottom. It seemed hardly
a minute before they were back again at the
mouth of the spleen, but the entrance was
a tougher job. One of the safest of boats in
the open sea, a coracle is one of the risks
nearing rocks, a touch which would do
another no harm sufficing to carry death
through its canvas sides. To any one looking
on from the shore it would probably
have seemed an impossibility to get it in
without impaling it upon one or other of
the two points, outstretched like crabs'
claws to catch it. Here, however, Hurrish's
strength told. Shifting the disabled oar to
windward, he brought his whole strength to
bear upon the other, resisting the onslaught
of the wind and sea, which would have
driven it on the rocks, and steering straight
for the centre of the open. Another minute
and he was inside, and in calm water.

The tide was still a long way out, so that
there would be a good many hours before
the sea would be at the top of the spleen.
He resolved accordingly to tie the boat up,

get a few hours' sleep, and be back again
at the spleen at early dawn. It was a heavy
job getting it emptied and dragged over
the sand. With an ordinary boat of the
same size it would have been impossible,
but a coracle, amongst its other merits, is
astonishingly light. Having got it as high
as he could, and secured it additionally with
a rope round the usual rock, he left it lying
there, climbed the pathway, part of which
was by this time washed away by the deluge,
and set his face joyfully for home.

His night's adventures were not, however,
ended ! Half-way between the shore and
the house, happening to glance a little to
the left, he perceived, to his unspeakable
dismay, a white object moving slowly along
a little ahead of him, but apparently in
the same direction. Sometimes it would
stop short, then, after a few minutes' pause,
move slowly on again as before. It was
not a sheep, for it was too high from the
ground. It was not a man, for it was too
white, and, what was more appalling still.

the upper portion of the figure alone was
visible, the rest being either lost to sight
amongst the rocks, or, more probably, nonexistent.
Hurrish, as we know, was saturated
to the very bone and to the very marrow
of his bones with superstition, and that the
object before him was anything but a Banshee,
Clurigan, or " sper'rt " of some sort,
did not occur to him for a moment. The
perspiration broke out in great beads upon
his face, and he stopped short, shaking from
head to foot, his knees knocking against one
another, his strength, which a few minutes
ago had been proof against the worst that
the sea and the storm could do, utterly
failing against this new ordeal.

But that it was uttering no sound, he
would have felt absolutely certain that it
was the " Death sper'rt," commonly seen,
he knew, by people about to die. His own
great-uncle had seen one  so his mother
had often told him  walking along, sobbing,
and tearing its hair, and he, as everyone
knew, had been hanged for shooting a

Galway gentleman within the year. Hurried
was not more afraid of dying than
another man, but the bare idea of receiving
a " warning' " made the flesh creep upon his
bones, and his hair stand on end with
horror. He would rather any day have
faced a thousand substantial dangers than
one such bodiless one. Meanwhile, the
white figure was slowly preceding him,
moving apparently directly towards the
cabin, from which a candle, placed in one
of the windows, was throwing a ghostly tremulous
gleam over the rocks. Had it been
going in any other direction, Hurrish
would have fled ignominiously, but going
in this direction there was nowhere else
unfortunately for him to fly to. Alarm
for the others began, too, to prevail ; so after
a minute he slowly followed, shaking like
a leaf, his teeth chattering in his head,
ready at any moment to turn and flee
should the sper'rt show any disposition to
approach him.

Suddenly it wavered, fell forward, and

VOL. II. P

the next minute, to his increasing horror, it
began to cry and moan, sobbing convulsively
to itself  curiously human-like sobs they
were  and writhing about on the ground
like a creature in pain. There could be no
further doubt now. It was the "Death
per rt." He was a doomed man. God help
Alley, and his mother, and the pore little
chiltern ! what ud they do without him,
't all, 't all ? he wondered dismally.

He remained aloof, his eyes starting out
of his head, his blood seeming to turn to
water in his veins, so terrified was he.
Terror itself, however, at last lent him a
sort of courage  the courage to escape, and
he began cautiously making the circuit of
the thing sitting there, sobbing and moaning
upon the ground. If he could only once get
to the other side he could make a rush for
the house, and bolt and bar the door against
it. Then, at least, he would no longer see it,
and that would be always something. He had
nearly executed this ingenious manoeuvre,
when aU at once the sper'rt seemed to perceive

him, for it stretched its arms towards him,
uttering, as it did so, a wild appealing cry.

It was all that was wanting to complete
his agony ! Too terrified now to fly, too
terrified to move, he remained glued to the
ground, shaking from head to foot, while
the figure, finding apparently that he did not
stir, began to move slowly towards him, half
sobbing, and holding its hands out piteously
the while.

With a hoarse cry he flung himself upon
his knees before it.

For the luv ov God ! for the sake of the
holy blessed Virgin, keep back wit ye ! " he
stammered, his tongue cleaving to his mouth
from sheer terror. '' God 'tween us an'
harm, what are you 't all?"

Hurrish ! Hurrish ! "

Me God, it knows me name ! For the
tinder marcy of heaven keep away wit
you ! Don't spake to me ! Be near us an'
perfect us all good this night ! "

Hurrish ! Hurrish ! why don't you come
Hurrish, it's Alley! Don't you know Alley ? "

Alley ! " He did not venture even now
to approach; and it was not until she had
called to him twice again that his terror began
to some degree to give way to conviction.

'' The Lord ov grace ! Y'aint going' for to
till me 'tis you, Alley Sheehan, out in the
black dead o' night ? " he said, with a sort
of slow incredulity.

Yis, Hurrish, 'tis me. Won t ye come tome
? I've hunted me foot, and can't stir."

She was white enough, poor little Alley,
for any ghost ! white, and torn, and wet, and
wearied to death. Trembling and hardly
able yet to shake off his terrors, Hurrish
approached ; and it was not until he was
able in the dim light to perceive her face
close to his own, that he began at last to
believe in the reality of her presence.

"Mother ov marches, so 'tis you, Alley
darling, sure an' martin ! " he exclaimed at
last. "Devil sweep me for a general if I
didn't take ye for a sper'rt. Will I carry ye
home ? Sure, I see y' haven't the fut under
ye 't all 1 "

He lifted her up, without waiting for an
answer, and began carrying her hurriedly
towards the light. Suddenly, as the reality
of her existence pressed more and more fully
upon him, he burst into a loud laugh, which
rang noisily out into the darkness.

"Be the piper that played before Moses,
'tis the born full I am, sure and martin ! "
he exclaimed. " Jewel macree, but you guv
me the nice fright entirely this night ! May
I never ate bread, if I didn't think 'twas the
Death sper'rt cum to tell me me grave was
dug ! AVait till the boys larn Hurrish O'Brien
was frighted down on to his two bended
knees by little Alley Sheehan. Begorra I'll
never hear the ind of it till I die, so I
won't ! " and he laughed again and again
boisterously.

Alley did not echo the laugh. She was
too worn out even to speak. She let herself
be carried passively along, thankful to
feel herself at last safe and on the way home.
As they approached the cabin, however, and
the light began to stream more strongly upon

them, she began to bethink her of the necessity
of telling him what she had seen while
they were still alone.

Hurrish, I've a word to say to ye," she
said. " 'Twas to luk for you I went out
this night, only I missed the way and got
into the wrong spleen ; an' invade, an' invade
I thought I'd never git home again, but have
to lie there till morning." She paused a
moment to recover breath. " Hurrish, I
seen Maurice Brady," she said, solemnly.

Hurrish, however, did not seem to see
anything alarming in the information.

Did ye so, Alley ? Thin I haven't hard
sound or token ov him this long while back.
I thought 'twas maybe to 'Merited he'd gone,"
he said, placidly.

No, he was there. An'  an', Hurrish, 
'tint to me, Hurrish,  he had a gun wit
him!"

Still Hurrish declined to be alarmed.

"tis the full he is to carry one, thin,"
he said. "The polis '11 be takin' it from
him, sure as eggs is mate, and what goodwill

it be to him thin ? Only a waste ov
good money."

Alley began to lose patience. She was
utterly worn out, and this difficulty of
making herself understood seemed a sort of
climax to her troubles.

*' Sure, Hurrish, ye don't understand met
all, 't all," she said, fretfully. "Dont I
tell you 'twas for to warn yerseV I went
down to the spleen. 'Tis you he's carrying'
it for, an' no one else. God forgive' him !
Tis yersel' he's main' for to shoot."

"Isn't shoot me? Och now, Alley dear,
'tis drain' ye are, sure and martin. What
the mortal man would he be wanting' to shoot
me for?" he replied, in tones of genuine
astonishment.

He does mane it, thin. He would me so
himself."

"Told ye himself! Gorra ! if that don't
bate Manager ! Where did he go for to tell
ye such a thing ? "

"Down at th' ould abbey."

"Is it to-night?"

*' No, not to-night ; 'fore ever the trial
cum on. He bade me tell you he'd do
it''

"Ye never did, thin."

"I know. I'd ought, but somehow I 
durstntJ'

Hurrish scratched his head. They had
now reached the cabin, and he had set Alley
down, so that he had his hand free for that
essential part of the operation of thinking.
The conclusion he arrived at was that she
was too " bothered " and " flustered " to-night
to be able to know clearly what she meant.
Very likely she had 'framed" the whole
thing ; that, at any rate, seemed the readiest
explanation. Having just recovered from one
terror, he was not in the least disposed to
entertain another one. He addressed himself
accordingly to the task of soothing her.

Well now. Alley dear, sure you'll tell me
all 'bout it in the morning," he said, coaxingly.
Don't ye say no more 'bout guns nor nothing
to-night, only into yer bed wit ye, where ye
had ought to ha' been hours ago. Drink the

haste sup of whisky, an' get straight in, an'
cover yourself up warm wit anything ye Ve
got. Take me big coat  'tis dry, for I left itt
home. Be afF this instant minute, an' God
bless you, an' ye'll tell me all about the gun
and the rest of it in the morning."

These various directions were of necessity
whispered, for old Bridget had fallen asleep,
and lay snoring in her own corner, and it was
a point of considerable importance to both of
them not to awaken her. Alley was too exhausted
to make any further struggle. Weariness
had reached a point where a sort of collapse
seemed to set in. She declined the
whisky, but went into her own room passively
without another word. Her last
thought, as she wearily pulled off her wet
clothes and prepared to lie down beside
little warm unconscious Katty, was that
Hurrish was safe to-night, and the door
shut and bolted. Nothing, thank God, could
possibly happen to him between this and
tomorrow morning !

Chapter XIII.

UPON THE VERY BRINK.

She was still sleeping the heavy sleep of
utter weariness when Hurrish got up and
looked out of the little window of the outside
room, which faced east. It was dark night
still in the cabin. The cocks and hens slept
profoundly on their perches. Old Bridget's
snores made a deep bass accompaniment to
the lighter music proceeding from the noses
of .the two small boys cuddled snugly in
their own private corner. Away to the east,
however, a faint greenish light was rising.
The wind had lowered, but still beat in angry
puffs against the house, shaking it irritably,
as if to ascertain whether its strength was
really impaired or not, then racing off" with a

scampering noise as of a frightened crowd
across the rocks. Having pulled on his clothes
unpleasantly wet still from the night before
Hurrish carefully opened the door, glancing
back as he did so for fear of disturbing
the others. Lep, who had been watching
these proceedings with keen eyes, sprang
up at this juncture, and ran to him, curling
himself into a comma, and entreating withall
a dog's irresistible eloquence to be allowed
to go too. Hurrish hesitated, then, remembering
that if the sea allowed of it, he
should have to take out the boat, he ordered
him in a whisper to go back and lie down
again.

The dog obeyed, but unwillingly, giving
a low whimper of dissatisfaction, which followed
his master piteously as he left the
cabin. As soon as he had got outside, the
rain flew at his face with recovered spite.
The whole scene, as far as he could see it, was
swathed in fog which seemed to envelop the
darkness, which in turn swathed its edges
and hid its extent. Hurrish looked up at

what ought by this time to have been the
sky with a grimace of disgust ; then, first
sitting down for a moment on the low wall
to pull on his boots, which he held in his
hands, he set out at a quick pace for the
spleen.

The coracle was still safe, but the sea had
risen enormously during the night, and was
beating through the narrow entrance in huge,
green curls, which shot their spray high
into the air through the fog. Half an
hour more, and they would be sweeping
against the rocks at the end.

To attempt to row out through such a sea
would have been simple insanity. Upon the
other hand, to bring the coracle further in
than it was was impossible, for at this point
the cliff rose in a succession of perfectly perpendicular
steps, the result of the horizontal
stratification of the limestone, quarried incessantly
away as it was from below by the sea.
In the upper part these steps were partially
sheeted with loose scale-like fragments, upon
which larger stones  fallen from the matrix

above  lay about in loose heaps. The only
thing, therefore, to be done was to fix the
boat as firmly as possible, so that the waves,
when they did reach it, should be unable
to dislodge it. Accordingly Hurrish began
hastily shovelling in sand with an old shovel
which he kept for digging bait in a cleft.
The tide, however, was rising fast, so fast
that he felt that the time would be too
short to complete the operation. As soon,
therefore, as there was enough sand to
protect the bottom of the boat, he began
hastily throwing in pieces of rock, all that
he could lay hands on. There were not
very many about, the steps rising, as has
been said, straight out of the sands ; so,
having collected all that there were, he
mounted the path in order to get at those
above.

He was warm now with his work. There
was a pleasure, too, in baffling the enemy, and,
between the two sensations, his broad genial
face shone with a glow which ought to have
gone some way towards dispersing the fog.

He had been up twice, and the second time
he fancied that he heard a movement in the
fog above his head, something that sounded
like the stealthy approach of footsteps. Surprised
by such a sound, at such an hour, he
shouted to know who was there. There was
no answer, however. The silence was complete,
tomb-like. Concluding, therefore, that
he was mistaken, he hurried to pick up a
big block which lay at his feet, and turned
to descend. He was in the act of doing
so, when again, and this time unmistakably,
he heard the sound, and turning, quick as
thought, looked up into the misty vault.
For an instant  only for an instant  there
was the outline of a head ; the outline of
a gun; then a flash, and the next momenta
stinging, numbing, indescribable pain right
through the middle of his chest caused him
to drop the stone which he had in his hands,
and with a wild cry, in which pain, indignation,
and bitter unspeakable astonishment
all seemed to mingle, he dropped down upon
the ledge where he was standing, while a

sound of footsteps, first nearer, then further,
further, further, sounded overhead, finally
dying away in the far-off solitary distance.
The murderer had effected his escape.

And Hurrish ! For a while he lay there
like one stunned ; knowing what had happened
to him, and yet refusing to know it ;
fighting fiercely against the consciousness.
He was dreaming! he was perhaps drunk!
the fairies had bewitched him! Anything
and everything seemed possible  nay, probable
 save what had actually happened.
That alone was the utterly and the absolutely
impossible !

And yet through it all he knew  knew asa
matter of absolute certainty  that he had
got his death." It was all over. He was
as much done for as though he already lay
in Tubbamina churchyard, under the sod
which was always so full of camomile
flowers. That good stanch frame of his,
which, under ordinary circumstances, might
have defied the slow decays of another fifty
years, that number of hours would probably

suffice for it now. The sea underneath was
hardly nearer to him than that other and
larger sea ujDon whose waters we must all
one day float. Oddly enough, the idea passed
through his own mind though in another
form, and he turned his head slightly so as to
look in the direction where the O'O'Brasil lay.
The action brought on a sudden rush of
blood, accompanied by a pain, the agony of
which seemed to tear through every nerve,
sinew, and artery in his body, finally settling
in a dull concentrated ache in the centre of
his breast. He groaned aloud, writhing in
anguish on his narrow perch, and tearing
aside coat and shirt, looked down at the
small round hole through the dark lips of
which the blood was ebbing fast and furiously.
It was true then ! It was no dream.
He was hit  hit to death !

At first the look was one of mere animal
agony, the joint heritage of all of us poor vertebrated
brutes. After a while, however, another
expression came into it ; a sort of mute
agonised wonder; a piteous appeal to the

rulers of the mysterious, the unexplainable.
It was hardly anger, for he was too puzzled,
too benumbed, moreover, by fast growing
weakness for that. It was rather a deep
abounding sense of the mysteriousness of
the thing. To believe yourself in a natural
world, to find yourself in an unnatural one,
to take up a fruit and to find a stone,
to stretch out a hand to a friend and to
receive back a dagger in your heart, faintly
describes the sort of vortex of mystery into
which his soul was plunged, and in which
his brain seemed to swim with perplexity
no less than with pain. It was so overwhelming
that it seemed to do away withall
thoughts of vengeance  almost with the
last ineradicable clinging to life. With the
sort of desperation which comes to a man
sometimes in the worst crises of his fate,
he simply lay down again upon his perch,
and rested his head against the rock. If
help came, it came ; if not, it didn't ! Help
himself he couldn't. The slightest movement
only precipitated the end. God was

VOL. II. Q

good, and might help him yet. So he reasoned,
in fatalism quite as much as in piety.

As he lay there his brain was visited with
odd fancies. "Weakness painted certain things
with a curious vividness. His fancy wandered
away to the cabin, and to little Katty
his own black-eyed little Katty  curled
up at that moment like a small tortoiseshell
kitten in her basket, little guessing
what was happening to her poor old daddy !
He thought of Alley too, but less vividly.
He could not direct his thoughts, but was
at the mercy of what came uppermost.
Everything swam and melted, and ran confusedly
one into another. He fancied by
moments that he was lying, not on the rocks
at all, but in a little hollow scooped out of
the sands a few miles further down the coast.
It was dedicated to unbaptised babies whom
the Church refuses to let lie in consecrated
soil, but whose memory the pious feeling of
the country cherishes with a peculiar tenderness.
In this graveyard there was one
grave, as it happened, which was not the

grave of an infant. It was the grave of an
unknown man, who had been washed ashore
close to the spot, and been allowed to find
an asylum in it. Hurrish had often stopped
as he was passing to look at the grave and
its nameless headstone. To wonder, with
a passing wonder, who the unknown man
had been, and whether any one had been
left to mourn his loss. Now, with the incoherency
of weakness, he felt as if he himself
were that unknown man, tossed there
alone, without a friend or a pitying eye to
see him die.

Hark ! something was stirring ! There
were steps over his head. An odd shuffling
noise. Was it a man or only an animal  a
sheep perhaps strayed too near the bank?
With a last resource of strength he lifted his
head and shouted. Such a poor shout ! the
very ghost and wraith of his former ones.
Then waited. There was no answer ; shouted
again, and still no answer. Then feebly,
doubtingly, half - hesitatingly he uttered a
word  only one word  " Morry !" This time

there was an answer, and over the edge immediately
above him a face gazed down, the
frightened face and wild vacant eyes  not of
Maurice Brady, but of Thady-na-Taggart !

Hurrish saw it and beckoned. It was his
last conscious act. Slight as was the movement,
it was followed by a fresh and more
violent rush of blood from the wound in his
breast, and he fell back upon the rock fainting,
unconscious.

When he came to himself he was again
alone, but the bleeding had temporarily
ceased. Something had been done. He
could feel that a bandage or piece of rag of
some sort had been applied. He called twice
feebly, but there was no answer. The daylight
was everywhere now. A new day had
come ; a new life ! The clouds were still
thick overhead, but the fog had all but wasted
away. In every direction the daylight was
shining upon grey rocks, and upon a wild and
storm-troubled world of waters. Everywhere
over the wide face of the sea the wind was
speeding home ships that longed for the

sight of land. All along the whole edge
of the Atlantic waves were rushing up with
thunder on to shores, sandy or rocky as the
case might be. Away, everywhere over the
face of the country, under roofs large and
small, high pitched and low pitched, people
were sleeping, or waking to think of another
day. Children were laughing in their beds ;
women beginning to bustle about; strong
men rejoicing in their strength ; and upon
one bare ledge under the pitiless sky a
strong man was fast growing weaker than an
infant as the blood flowed from his veins to
bedew the indifferent rocks. Was no one
coming, then ? no one f no one f he wondered.
Must he lie there till he died ? What
had become of Thady ? of Alley ? of everyone
? Did none of them know or care that
he was dying there  alone?

He was consumed now with thirst, that
awful thirst which adds the last horror to
battle-fields. His tongue seemed to cleave
to his mouth, and to be dry and hard as a
piece of wood. The vast watery immensity

beneath mocked him with its multitudinous
rippling waves. He saw his own coracle
below him, and the sight cut to the quick
with a sudden start of pain. The first feeling
of stupefaction, almost of resignation,
had quite passed away now. The horrible
restlessness of exhaustion was upon him, and
he writhed in torment upon his narrow perch.
His eyes, travelling in mute despair over the
immense arch in front, rested upon the gulls
as they dipped and soared  very perfection
of ideal freedom  with a dull misery which
almost amounted to hate. What had he
ever done ? what had his sin been, he asked
himself bitterly, that he should have been
allowed to be shot like a dog, and then left
to die a dog's death ? It was only a minute
since he was in his own little cabin, waking,
safe and strong and happy. A minute ? nay,
but a year. Had he, in fact, ever been
so? Was it not a dream and a delusion
that he had ever been that man, who was
safe and strong and happy ? Had he not
rather been lying here always  a miserable

creature, a worm, with a man's capacity for
suffering ? A creature so ludicrously weak
that he could barely clutch at the tuft of
daisies springing at his side  a pitiful thing,
writhing and wriggling and making a moan,
but so feeble that it did not disturb the very
gulls over his head  flung out like a barrow-load
of rubbish upon a ledge to die.

Poor Hurrish ! he was a martyr, too, after
a fashion, though he knew it not. A martyr
to a not very glorious cause, one that was
certainly not very much worth dying for.
A martyr to a long and an ugly past  a
past in which he, not having been born,
had at least no share of the blame. He
was dying because Hate of the Law is the
birthright and the dearest possession of
every native son of Ireland. He was dying
because, for many a weary year, that country
had been as ill-governed a morsel of earth
as was to be found under the wide-seeing
eye of God. The old long-repented sin of
the stronger country was the culprit, as
surely as if it had pointed the gun at his

breast. Is that ridiculous ? Perhaps so,
and yet it is true too, as many ridiculous
things are true.

Another, and perhaps an equally ridiculous,
fact was, that it was only now that
indignation against his assailant was really
beginning to find place in his breast. Not
even now, for shooting him  that, though
inexplicable, was comparatively venial  but
for deserting him  leaving him there on
that naked ledge to die alone. If he would
come back even now be with him, stay
beside him, let him have the comfort of
seeing his face, any human face, and not
only this big, dreadful, empty immensity,
he felt that he could freely forgive him all
the rest.

How long had he lain there ? Sometimes
he fancied that he had fallen over the ledge,
and was tossing about in the waves below,
up and down, to and fro. The sun shone
upon the waves, but it did not seem to warm
him. He was a cork, he was a bubble, he
was a coracle. The fancies followed one

another so fast that there was no time to
recognise them before they were gone again.
At last he was aroused by something that
was not a fancy  something soft, yet rough,
moving backwards and forwards welly over his
face. He opened his eyes, and opened them
into a mass of tangled fur. It was Lep
poor, honest, faithful Lep  whining and
looking piteously at his master, and evidently
perfectly aware of his cruel plight.
Thady was there too, his white face red with
running, the perspiration pouring from it in
great drops. They were not alone ; others
were following. Two men, fishermen from
Tubbamina, who came up with frightened
faces and loud ejaculations of dismay. There
was no time for ejaculations, however, no
time either to tell even how Thady had
made them understand. The first thing
was to get Hurrish home, and for this it
would be necessary, they decided, to get
more help and a door.

There was another inevitable delay. The
nearest cabin was his own, so that it was

there they went. How the news had been
told there was no one to tell, but in a
shorter time than would have seemed possible
there came a flying sound of footsteps
nearer and nearer. A pause ; a low cry of
anguish, as of a soul taking flight, and Alley
Sheehan was upon her knees beside him,
her white despairing face close to his; her
great grey eyes strained and dry, with the
tension of an agony too great for tears or
words. Close behind her, like shadow upon
light, followed old Bridget, mad with fury
and athirst for revenge. Seizing the girl,
she thrust her aside with a curse, telling
her to keep back, and not be allays meddling' ;
then flung herself almost upon her son, at
the imminent risk of pushing him off his
precarious resting-place.

Mechanically Alley obeyed and drew
back. Is there any passion, I wonder, any
human need so great that it will not give
way to habit, if only that habit has been continuous
enough, more especially if it has its
root in fear? Hurrish had caught sight of

her face, however, its look of desperate misery
striking him through all his languor, and he
beckoned to her to come back, Bridget sullenly
making way for her to do so.

"Don't ye take on so, allan," he whispered,
soothingly. " Sure 'twas to be, or
it wudn't ha' been. Anyhow, ye ' did all ye
cud, an' no one on this mortal art cud do
more."

She made no answer. She was turned to
stone. The worst had come, and what did
anything else matter? Let Maurice Brady
come and kill her too. She would only thank
him, she felt.

The men had now come back with the
door, and were about to lift Hurrish on toit.
Just before they did so, however, a
new idea seemed to strike him, for he beckoned
her over to him again.

"You see 'twas the Death sper'rt. Alley,
I seen after all ! " he said, a faint gleam of
humour struggling for a moment across the
paleness of his face.

CHAPTER XIV.

SOME Precursors OF THE MILLENNIUM.

The effect upon Tubbamina of the news of
Hurried's disaster was of the nature of a
galvanic shock ! an electric current of horror,
grief, dismay, fury, which seemed to rush
through all its inhabitants alike. There was
not a man, woman, or child who did not
feel as if a personal injury had been done
them ; a valuable piece of property removed ;
a serious breach made in his or her future
comfort. Who first put the general instinct
into words it would be difficult to say, but
within a very short time of the arrival of
the news, every one, as if by inspiration, had
struck upon the same name as that of the
culprit. There was no question either about

concealing this murder, or protecting its
perpetrator. On the contrary, every one
was athirst for vengeance, and eager to
bring the offender to justice.

That distinguished upholder of the law,
Mr Andy Holohun  prominent member of
the Republican brotherhood, and reputed
assistant at at least half-a-dozen violent outrages
 was the first to suggest calling in
the aid of the '' polls." No sooner said than
done. Three or four men  Mr Holohun
himself at their head  ran off straight to
the barracks, and laid the case before the
sergeant in command; then turned back to
concoct further plans. A party of men
started off to Ballyvaughan, to intercept him
if he attempted to cross in the steamer to
Galway. Another ran up the Gortnacop-
pin ridge to see if by chance he might be
lurking in the cabin there. All the powers
of that underground government which, as
most people are aware, is not without power
in Ireland, were brought to bear upon the
matter. The very women felt it to be absolutely

incumbent upon them, as good citizens,
to suspend all household operations,
in order to sit together on the doorsteps and
volubly curse the culprit ! Never had so
spontaneous an abhorrence of crime, never
so magnificent a thirst after abstract justice,
been exhibited before by an Irish village !

While this excitement was going on at Tub-lamina
a different scene was proceeding at the
cabin, to which Hurrish had meantime been
carefully conveyed, and laid there upon his
own bed. Poor Mary O'Brien's bed ! the
one she had brought there with such pride,
and purchased with her own hard - earned
money. She had died on it, and now Hurried's
turn had come. Is there any stranger
symbol more significant of all the mingled
woof and warp, good and evil, joy, sorrow,
hope, agony, of our perplexing life, than
that same homely and indispensable piece
of furniture ?

In spite of the superior interest of the
search, which had retained a good many of
the neighbours, there were not wanting

scores of excited and vehemently sympathetic
visitors to the cabin. The women
arrived sobbing, and continued to wail and
cry aloud all the time they remained, standing
in a crowd around the bed, and suggesting
every variety of contradictory remedy.
Happily they were at last dispersed by the
dispensary doctor, who insisted that the
patient should be left in peace, announcing,
at the same time, with bluff outspokenness,
that the case was, in his opinion, a hopeless
one from the beginning. The bullet was notable
to be extracted, though he put poor
Hurrish to considerable pain in his efforts
to reach it. He was not a particularly skilful
practitioner, though an excellent man and
an admirable judge of pigs,  a talent which
naturally caused him to be much respected
in the vicinity.

After he had left, a few of the sympathisers,
whom he had expelled, stole back
under different pleas, and amongst these
Sal Connor. The poor girl's grief was most
genuine, though the manner she took of

showing it might have been less exuberant
with advantage. The instant she came into
the cabin she threw herself flat down upon
the floor, throwing her overshot over her
head, flinging her two hands into the air,
rocking herself vigorously to and fro, and
uttering shriek after shriek, half stifled, it
is true, by the stoutness of the material,
but still sufficiently piercing to be decidedly
painful to any sensitive tympanum.

Hurrish, disturbed by the clamour, lifted
his head from the pillow, and looked with
a sort of mute appeal at Alley, who thereupon
stooped down, and put her arm round
the girl's neck.

*psal, darling, you wudn't be breaking' his
heart, wud ye ? " she said, coaxingly. " Sure
the doctor left strict ward he wasn't on no
'count to be disturbed. Praying' is all we
can do. Cum outside wit me, an' I'll tell
ye all the doctor said."

Sal Connor allowed herself, rather sullenly,
to be half lifted up and led outside the cabin.
Once there, however, she again broke out

into fresh and more piercing screams of distress,
not unmingled now with displeasure
at her ejection.

'Tis all very fine for you, Alley Sheehan !
Half a nun as year, an' cabin' for no man
yit, as every wan knows, no more nor
the birds in th' air! But I tell ye I lord
him, I lord him ! Oh, my God ! my God !
Ochone ! ochone ! ochone ! to think of him
lying' there, murdered and kilt before me
eyes, lupin' so white, an' spain' so wake !
What 'ul I do, at all, at all? 'Tis broke
me heart is, to think ov it ! The times
an' times I might ha' married, an' never
wud luk at one of thin wit thinking' ov
Hurrish O'Brien! There's Mr Moriarty
him as keeps th' ' Shamrock of Iron '  if he's
axed me dance, he's axed me five times, an'
wudn't be such a born loir himself as to go denying'
ov it ! Ochone ! ochone ! ochone ! Oh
my God, what 'ul I do, 't all ? Sure me heart's
broke in two ! me heart's broke in two 1 "

Alley could only reiterate her soothing
words, which, after a while, appeared to suc-vol.

II. R

need, for Sal's wrath turned to expostulation.


'' Arrali let me back, an' I'll be still as a
mouse, and never say the word, only sit and
watch him britain' ! Och Alley Sheehan,
Alley Sheehan, if we'd the list taste of a
woman's heart in yer brist this blessed dayan'
knew what loving' a man was like, sure
ye wouldn't go for to deny me ! "

To this compromise the other consented,
and they went back to the cabin together.
Poor Sal, however, had apparently overestimated
her own powers of composure.
She sat down quietly enough for about ten
minutes, after which she began to sob and
then to howl ; finally, with a terrific explosion,
half stifled subterranean in her petticoats,
she got up and ran out of the house,
her cries growing fainter and fainter until
they died away in the distance.

After this the cabin really lapsed into
something like tranquillity. Hurrish seemed
to have sunk into a doze, for he lay with
his eyes closed, and his lips parted. Old

Bridget's furious lamentations and denunciations
had by this time died away, and she
appeared to have sunk into a sort of coma.
Seated on her stool by the fire, the big iron
ladle in her hand, she seemed to be muttering
spells into the pot, rather than occupying
herself with cooking. All the nursing
and carrying out of the doctor's directions
fell exclusively to Alley's share, whom
Bridget now no longer interfered with, looking
on with a sort of sullen indifference,
as much as to say that since all hope was
at an end, it did not much matter what
happened, or who looked after him !

The children, much against their will, had
been taken away by a neighbour, but had
been promised by Alley to be allowed to return
later. The only other person left was
poor Thady-na-Taggart, whom it would have
been impossible indeed to remove short of
main force, so determined had he shown himself
to stay. No one could accuse him, however,
of making a noise ! He sat on the floor
crouched close to the wall, like a sick dog,

his eyes fixed immovably upon the bed.
The poor fellow looked years older than lie
had done the day before. His innocent, witless
face had a more serious and responsible
expression than usual, and his cheeks were
crumpled into a number of fine wrinkles,
like a badly-folded piece of linen. Perpetually
immovable, and in almost identically
the same attitude, lay beside him.

Hark ! A distant noise ; sounding strange
and incongruous in the melancholy stillness
of the little interior. A monotonous " tramp,
tramp, tramp, tramp," approaching over the
flat rocks. Another sound, too, a dull, continuous
roar,  not at all, however, like the
roar of the sea,  growing louder; broken
with whoops, with cries as of derision, with
shouts and shrieks of rage and satisfaction.
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp ! on they came,
a body of men stepping together, evidently
with the steady uniformity of men drilled
to walk in step. Behind,  like dead leaves
at the heels of a storm,  a shuffling, scuffling
noise of feet. The cries, whoops.

groans grew nearer and nearer, though also
less distinct as if intentionally muffled. Now
and then, however, an irrepressible groan
filled the air, followed by a prolonged hissing
noise as of a crowd of geese driven
along a road.

Bridget looked up from her pot with
an angry, half idiotic stare ; Hurrish, too,
seemed to catch the sound, for he turned
his head so as to face the half-opened door.
Nearer and nearer came the steps  now close
at hand. A muttering, buzzing, excited
sound upon the rocks outside ; a rush
forward ; then a sudden lull, like waves
driven backwards  a sound of many voices
whispering eagerly together. , Then the door,
already ajar, was pushed wide open, and
four policemen entered, two by two, and
in their midst, with handcuffs on his wrists
hatless, bespattered from head to foot with
the mud and filth that had been liberally
flung at him ever since his capture ; his lip
cut and bleeding, from a stone that had accompanied
the softer, if more opprobrious.

missiles ; this clothes torn, and hanging about
him in ribbons,  came Maurice Brady.

Every one was still as death for an instant.
Then, as if the sight had broken violently
through her lethargy, old Bridget sprang forward,
iron ladle in hand.

With one swing of her sinewy old arms,
she had pushed the policemen aside, and was
standing face to face with the prisoner. The
next she had clutched him by the front of
his coat, and was shaking him to and fro, asa
tigress shakes a man before proceeding to
devour him.

Giv him t' me ! Giv him t' me ! Giv
him t' me ! " she screamed. " Giv me up
the massacre misery-int, till I tear him
in pieces 'fore yis all ! 'Tis going' the way
ov yer ruder year, ye scum ! Yis, year, ye
black-hearted sluggard ! The blast of Heaven
be an ye, and Hell's bells 'tint yer berlin',
ye murdering' sweep of th' art ! Luk at
him ! Luk at him that's lying' on that bed !
him that was bettered nor a father to ye !
yis, an' a mother too, ye unnatural naggur !

Hanging's too good for ye ; an' if I had
ye 'lone, ruin to me soul, but I'd tear yer
flesh to gr-ass wit me two ould hands, an'
smash yer skull again the virgin art  so I
wud, ye murdering' thief ov the world ! "

It was not without some difficulty, and
by the exercise of a considerable amount of
physical force, that the constables in charge
succeeded in rescuing their prisoner from the
hands of his exasperated assailant, who assuredly
would have carried out her threats had
she been free to do so ; and, handcuffed ashe
was, Maurice Brady was of course absolutely
powerless to defend himself To his
credit be it said, he retained as much composure
as a man under so remarkably uncomfortable
an ordeal well could. A dull flush
passed over his face, and his eyes gleamed
angrily ; nevertheless he faced his furious old
assailant with a smile of tolerably successful
indifference.

Suddenly all started, and turned towards
the bed. Hurrish's voice was heard speaking.
At first it had been lost in the tumult ; no

sooner, however, was it perceived than a
deathlike silence succeeded to the clamour of
tongues. Old Bridget relaxed her hold on the
prisoner; her shrieks sank, and she turned
eagerly towards her son. It was not to her,
however, but to the constable in charge, that
Hurrish was speaking.

What's the gentleman bin coin' 't all,
sargent ? " he inquired, in a tone of mild curiosity.


The constable  a big stupid-looking man,
with a large moustache, and a pair of goggling,
greenish eyes  stared blankly.

Isn't he the man that done for you ?
Sure I arrested him as such," he said, with
a spasm of official rage, half stifled by his
official collar.

'ris it Mr Brady? " Hurrish smiled pityingly.
" Arrah, sargent, I wonders at you, 
I do invade ! Whoever put such a full's
notion into yer head ? 'Tis a thrice they've
bin played on ye, whoever dun it ! "

The sergeant's face was an edifying study I
He stared first at Hurrish, lying upon the

bed, his white face all the whiter for its dark
tangled beard and hair ; then at old Bridget ;
then at the prisoner, as if in hopes of extracting
the truth from him. The latter s face, it
must be owned, did not particularly bear out
the other's assertion His lips twitched, and
his hands, with all his efforts to control them,
shook visibly under the handcuffs.

An' who dun it 't all ? " burst simultaneously,
not from one, but a dozen pairs of
lips,  the crowd, which at first had considerately
staid outside, having at this juncture
pushed in, man after man, till the cabin was
nearly filled.

Hurrish put his hand up to his head as if
to assist his memory.

'Twas some parties in a boat, I'm thinking',
but I can't call to mind exactly," he said,
feebly. " I was cumin' along the thrace, an'
I turned towards th' say, an' all 'tonc't I
got the crack in me brist, an' that's all I
know, but I seen a little boat soon after
cumin' round foreninst the Glasses rock  a
cheesy little rotten of a thing, nigh well

as small as me fist, so 'twos," he added,
thoughtfully.

There was a general silence. Not a single
being in the cabin, of course, believed a
word that he had been listening to. Not
one either but felt a pang of dismay
and disgust at the thought that the murderer
would, after all, escape. So deeply
engrained, however, in Ireland, is the instinct
under no circumstances to betray a
criminal, that the very men who had dragged
Maurice triumphantly out of his hiding-place,
and had accompanied him thus far, with the
amiable intention of hearing that he was safe
to be hanged, felt that Hurrish's conduct was
only natural, and moreover, that, under similar
circumstances, they would have done precisely
the same themselves.

Oddly enough, the person who felt least
inclined to let the matter rest where it
was, was gentle, tender-hearted Alley. A
flush of anger rose to her cheek, and she
stepped impetuously forward, and opened
her mouth as if to speak. Then suddenly

changing her mind, she turned away, and
sat silently down in a corner. Happily for
Maurice Brady, it had never occurred to anybody
to dream of her as a possible witness.

A sort of sudden gloom, a dull feeling of
disappointment, fell upon the entire party, as
upon an audience that has been promised
some exciting drama which fails at the last
minute to come off. The men, one by one,
began to file out, leaving only the policemen
and prisoner in the cabin. Even Bridget fell
back, and sat down, with her former air of
lethargy, beside the fire. Hurrish was the
first to speak.

I'd like, if it's not displacing to yis, to
have a word or two wit Mr Brady," he
said, looking round, first at the policemen,
then at his mother and Alley. " If ye'll
lave us to our two selves for a while, I'd be
'obliged."

Sullenly, like one under an irresistible
spell, old Bridget went out. Alley followed,
avoiding looking at Maurice as she passed
him. The policemen, too, moved away, the

sergeant stopping as he did so to unlock the
prisoner's handcuffs. They did not intend
letting him out of reach entirely, in case of
any fresh evidence turning up ; but to keep
him in custody, and to take him before a
magistrate without more evidence than they
had at present, was obviously impracticable.

The men who had accompanied them from
Tubbamina were still outside, standing about
together in groups, and gloomily exchanging
suggestions and condolences. It was a moment
of universal brotherhood,  wolves and
sheep-dogs meeting and conversing on a sort
of common ground. As far as the good
wishes of the company present went, there
were enough and to spare, every man being
perfectly ready to swear a solemn oath that
Maurice Brady, and no one else, was the
criminal. But, alas ! none of them had seen,
or could even pretend they had seen, the deed
done. Of what use, therefore, all their zeal
or all their excellent intentions, when the
victim and only witness absolutely declined
to prosecute ? As a proof of good feeling

and unanimity, however, it was certainly
edifying in the extreme. Indeed, to see
Andy Holohun go up to the big constable,
and compare notes with him in a low tone
of sympathy and confidential intercourse, was
a beautiful sight, calculated to make any one
believe in the speedy oncoming of a universal
millennium !

CHAPTER XV

FACE TO FACE.

And so, and for the last time upon earth,
Hurrish O'Brien and Maurice Brady were
alone together face to face ! What thoughts
passed through their minds, what ineffaceable
memories rose up before them both, it is
easier to imagine than to put into commonplace
words. Their new position towards
one another was so new, so appalling, so
impossible ; their old one so familiar, so
kindly, so, as it were, inevitable,  that to
Hurrish, at any rate, it seemed only natural
to revert to it, and let the rest be. He
waited a while, expecting Maurice to be the
first to speak. Then as he did not do so,
but remained sullenly aloof, keeping as

near as he could to the door, and apparently
resolved not to approach, or if possible look
at him, he began himself.

What I axed ye to slit op an'  spake tome
for  Morry, me buoy," he said, speaking
slowly, and evidently with difficulty, "was
to tell you 'bout  Mat. I thought I'd be
fisher somehow if ye knew how 't was at the
last. I wudn't like for to go an' for you 
t' think  I dun  what ye  thought I  dun."

Maurice Brady started, and his face changed.
A hideous, an altogether intolerable thought,
rushed through his brain, as the words fell
slowly from the other's lips,  a thought so
dreadful that it seemed to sear him from
head to heel like a red-hot iron, and to leave
him racked and shaking with agony. His
stoicism, his pride, his bitter furious sense
of humiliation, all were swept for the moment
out of sight, almost out of existence,
by this new shock. Did Hurrish mean  was
he going to say that it was a mistake f  that
he had not murdered Mat ? Was he going
to swear that to him on his deathbed? A

sudden sickening horror of his own action  a
horror which up till now had hardly touched
him, even lightly  fell upon him suddenly,
consuming, like a bolt. Little by little
he had been pushed on by the thirst for
revenge, by the unendurable sting of his
own altered position, which he owed, he told
himself, exclusively to Hurrish. Like many
another before him, he had goaded, deafened,
blinded himself into a belief in the
necessity of the crime  had told himself
that it was not, in fact, a crime at all, but
merely the acquitting of a necessary debt ;
that honour, revenge, justice  nay, the
very peace of his brother's soul  demanded
that he should do it, seeing that the law
declined to take the matter into its own
hands, as it ought to have done. He was
not a murderer, therefore, but only an
avenger. Suddenly, as at the touch of some
dividing and disentangling rod, these arguments
fled away,  burst, as a bubble bursts,
leaving him there face to face with the real
facts. He saw himself as he was  a murderer!

 a foul, brutal, cold-blooded murderer.
And the murderer of whom? Of his own
best friend ; of the man who, as old Bridget
had truly said, had been a father to him
when he needed one ; had given him a home
when his own was no home to him; had
believed in him when nobody else believed ;
had made his young ambitions his ambitions
; above all, had loved him as it is
given to few men to be loved even by their
own fathers. And, in return for all this,
what had he, on his part, done? God of
justice and of mercy !  he had murdered
him!

Though slow, the retribution was complete.
If ever the hideousness of a man's
crime overtook him in this mortal life, it
overtook Maurice Brady at that moment.
He had not even  like the vast majority
of criminals  that brutal dulness which
blunts and deadens the edges of self-consciousness,
making remorse less an inward
agony than a mere outward dread of consequences.
His own hard, revengeful hands

VOL. II. s

had forged the spear, and now his own quick
brains drove it home  home to the very-hilt.
Like one gone for ever out of this
life, out of hope, out of the possibility of
repentance, face to face through all eternity
with the unending, the ineffaceable, the untenable,
he writhed in anguish, turning
his eyes to the bed and to his victim, as
such a lost soul might be expected in its
extremity to turn towards its accuser.

Hurrish !  my God, Hurrish !  speak tome
! " he said, in a voice so changed that
few would have recognised it. " If you've
any mercy or pity left, don't tell me you
didn't kill him ! God ! if you do, I'll dash
my head against that wall, and die before
you yet ! "

That this was no idle threat, no mere
rhetorical flourish, his bloodshot eyes and
changed and haggard face showed plainly.
Remorse, flung suddenly like a burning coal
into the lake of the soul, produces tortures
the agony of which might well drive a much
less sensitive man than Maurice Brady to

try the last throw of all with destiny, and
exchange the worst he knew for what of
worse there might be yet to know.

Hurrish probably saw this, for, quite forgetting
his wound, he sprang up in the bed,
and stretched his hands out as if to arrest
him.

"Morry ! Morry ! Arrah, be aise, Morry !
I kilt him !  I kilt him ! " he exclaimed,
vehemently.

Thank God for that, anyhow ! "

The reaction, the relief, fairly overcame
him, and, with a groan, Maurice Brady
sank suddenly down on his knees, and hid
his face in his hands, at the very feet of his
brother's murderer.

For some minutes they remained thus,
and there was silence between them. Hurried
lay back and pressed his hand to his
chest, looking down at the figure beside him.
Was Maurice praying ? Probably he would
have found it difficult to say what he was
doing. His brain was in a whirl. Perplexity,
anger, passionate despair, grief, plucked

in a fierce beaked crowd at his breast, and
almost drove him mad.

After a while Hurrish began to speak
again  slowly, but with a sort of dogged
resolution of getting through at any cost
with what he had to say.

Yis  I kilt him, Morry  I don't deny
it, why wud I,  now ? But I didn't  mane
it  not that way, any way. I was  cumin'
'long the thrace, an' he shot at me  from
behind ov th' ould hermitage place, an' I
was mad  an' made for him. He run, an' I 
after  an' whin I cum up I hot him  wan
on th' head  only wan  an' he fell like a
stone. An' whin I waited for him to git up
again' he  never  did 't all. An' after a bit
I walked away  an'  sure ye know the rest."

Yes, Maurice did know the rest. He had
no doubt either that what Hurrish told him
was the literal truth, the precise way in
which the thing had occurred. It had been
all a fatality from beginning to end  a black
hideous sorrow and crime - laden fatality.
Further than this he could not think. A

weight lay upon his head, so that he could
not even look up. He dreaded above all other
things having to see Hurrish's face again 
that ghastly face, upon which fast-coming
death had so plainly written its signet. He
saw it only too plainly without looking, 
felt, indeed, that he should continue to see
it always  through all his life, wherever he
might be, whatever he might do, perhaps
through all eternity, if there was any eternity.
He could not move his lips to ask
forgiveness. The misery, the whole fatality,
seemed to him to press to the full as hardly
upon himself as upon his victim ;  more,
seeing that he had to live, whereas Hurrish
had only to die ! Maurice did not ordinarily
undervalue the advantages of living, but he
was in a state in which all ordinary feelings
ceased, and death seemed an easier thing to
face than his present misery. In the end it
was Hurrish, therefore, who began again to
speak.

I know you'd just take the two oyes 
out ov yer head, if 't wud undo  what ye

dun  Morry, dear, so you needn't  be tellin'
me," lie said, slowly, subduing as far as possible,
for the other's sake, all signs of suffering.
" Life's a harry job t' us all, an' no
doubt ye felt  drum ; so no more  'bout it.
I'm thinking' maybe you'd be better  out ov
this  you'd be better a dale in Amerikee.
You'll have no comfort or entertainment here
t' all I'm 'heard, stead ov which there  so
smart an' cliver as year ! Truth, 'tis the
President they'll be making' ye in no time ! "

Maurice did not respond to the kindly
little jest, though the words struck a chord
to which his own mind inwardly responded.
At present he could not look forward, however,
prone as he was to that exercise 
could see nothing beyond the fast coming
moment, when that door would shut behind
him, and Hurrish O'Brien would be left alone
to die  to die by his hand. If punishment
had fallen upon him, he would probably have
braved it out  might very likely have grown
indifferent even to the moral side of what
he had done ; but as it was, the shame and

humiliation of such utter, such absolute forgiveness,
bowed him down to the very dust.

At last he lifted his head and showed a
ghastly face, as ghastly as the dying man's
own, and so they remained for a long minute
looking deep into one another's eyes.

At length, in a choked voice, Maurice found
words.

*' Hurrish, I was mad ! God knows I was
mad ! I wish I'd been dead and buried a
hundred thousand times over before ever I
fired that cursed shot ! Speak to me, Hurried
! say you'll forgive me," he stammered.

Hurrish's great gaunt face lit up with a
wonderful tenderness.

"Is it forgive ye, me pore buoy," he said
passionately. " An' sure wudn't I forgive yean'
welcome, if 'twas twist as much ? "

How much more it could have been he
did not stop to think ; neither, in truth, did
Maurice. He had risen and stood there,
a haggard man, utterly unlike himself,  an
image of despair, driven forth like a new
Cain from before the face of his victim. He

must go. Yet how could he go ? There was
nothing he could do  no possible atonement
that he could make ! He must simply walk
away, and leave Hurrish there alone  to die !
Suddenly he turned, and frantically -like
one under some fierce constraint, driven
forcibly against his will  he staggered blindly
towards the door. Arrived there, he
paused irresistibly, and looked back  at the
cabin, the familiar hearth, the brown walls,
the crazy furniture, the broken tawdry bits
of crockery, the pots and flyblown prints,
all the poor, homely, untidy little interior.
Then he glanced at the bed, and at that
wonderful look of pity and forgiveness upon
Hurrish's dying face  a look which seemed
to flood the whole dreary, sordid poverty of
the scene as with the light of another world.
The next instant he had turned  he was
gone ! The cabin, Hurrish, everything had
passed away for ever from his sight, and he
was face to face with the cold open daylight,
with the wide pitiless arch of sky, which
seemed to be flashing its clearness into his

very soul, to be proclaiming his sin to the
four winds, and inviting all creation to look
down upon the traitor, the murderer, going
out with the brand of Cain stamped forever
and for ever upon his brow.

The little ridge was almost bare. The
men, fortunately perhaps for him, had got
tired of waiting, and were gone away. There
was no one left except Alley Sheehan, who,
seated upon the low wall with her rosary in
her hands, kept her eyes fixed immovably
upon the door, only waiting for him to come
out, that she might return and take up her
place beside Hurrish's bedside again.

When he thus appeared  driven violently,
as it were, by some irresistible force from
within  she instantly averted her eyes, with
a rapid involuntary movement of horror, so
as to avoid seeing him. Then, when he had
moved a little way off, her gaze quietly reverted
to the door, and she seemed to be
unconscious of any other presence.

He paused, and looked at her as she sat
there ; moved a step, and paused again.

Should he, must he go, and make no effort
to speak to her ? have no last word at all !
He could not, poor wretch. He loved her
still !

Alley ! " he said, imploringly.

She gave a sudden start, but did not
otherwise move.

"Alley!" he said again, and now in a
tone of despairing entreaty.

This time no notice except a slight shiver.
Alley was absolutely impassive  her eyes
fixed immovably upon the door, her face
like the face of a statue. She held her beads
in her hands, and was slowly passing them
through her fingers, but even her lips hardly
moved.

He stood still gazing at her. The iron was
eating into his soul as it had not done yet.
Shame, bitter, bitter humiliation, a crushing
sense of utter powerlessness, were devouring
him. He dared not approach her  dared not
challenge her attention further than he had
done. The little, humble, insignificant girl
he had condescended to, had become a terrible

power. She condemned him, and she scorned
him. Whether she knew for certain what
he had done or not, he could not of course
know, but her look was enough. Hurrish
might forgive him, but there was no forgiveness
here.

So he remained standing and she sitting,
and neither of them spoke again. At last,
with a groan, Maurice Brady turned away,
and, striking slowly across the ridge, turned
to the left, and clambered down the bank
into the bohereen, which ran, it will be
remembered, considerably below the general
level of the ground. The next minute it
was as if the earth had opened bodily and
swallowed him up !

CHAPTER XVI.

"FOR I ALLAYS SAID HE'd BE A GRAN' MAN.

When lie had gone, and the sound of his
footsteps had quite died away for the last
time, Alley opened the cabin door and went
in. Hurrish was lying back white and exhausted,
but he opened his eyes as she
entered, and turned them on her.

He's gone, Alley ? "

Yis, he's gone."

Did ye spake to him, 'cushla ? The poor
buoy's very repentant."

Alley made no answer.

*' All's at an' ind 'tween you an' him, I'm
afeard ? " Hurrish went on regretfully.

A sort of spasm crossed the girl's pale face.
Her usually gentle, resigned expression left

it utterly. An odd, wild, savage look, quite
unlike any of her own  a survival, perhaps,
from some fierce ancestor or ancestress  took
its place.

I hate him ! " she said, in a low choked
voice. " I wish he war dead ! I cud kill
him myself' ! "

Hurrish looked quite startled. " Och,
Alley, Alley, dear, don't be saying' such
things ! " he said. " God be good ! sure,
we must all die ! Alley, it frights me t'
hear ye ! "

She made no answer, but turned away,
and began busying herself about some arrangements
for his comfort. Presently old
Bridget came back, and made straight for
the fireplace, looking round as she did so
at the bed and its occupant, as if puzzled
as to its meaning. Thady-na-Taggart, who
had run away when the crowd had invaded
the cabin, now also stole back, with
his usual slipshod, noiseless step, and went
and crouched down in his former place,
Lep making room for him and settling

down again beside him with an air of satisfaction.


After this Hurrish lay for some time quite
still and silent, this hand pressed to his chest,
his face drawn and white. Presently, hearing
a little movement near him, he lifted his
head, and saw the three children  the two
boys and Katty  who had been allowed to
come back on promise of good behaviour,
standing together in a small frightened
group, a little way from the bed, the six
round eyes fixed simultaneously in awed
consternation upon his own face.

He lifted his head and beckoned to them.
Katty, however, instantly shrank away and
hid her face. That strange man lying upon
the bed, her daddy ! her startled black eyes
and angry pouting mouth seemed to say 
No, no ! She knew better than that ! She
clutched at the rosary, which had been confided
to her as a pledge for good behaviour,
and held it across her face as a sort of defence,
peeping at him suspiciously between
the beads.

Hurrish's face lit up with its old familiar
smile, or rather the ghost of it.

Won't Kitteen giv pore dada wan kiss ?
pore dada that's going away an' latin'
her ! " he said, coaxingly. " Truth, an' 'tis
th' pore dada, sure enough, he's been to
you, my dote," he added, tenderly.

Convinced apparently by his voice, Katty
approached a step nearer, her little face still
puckered into a pout of suspicion. Alley
lifted her, so that he could kiss her without
having to stoop, and the soft round ftice, with
its parted rose-bud lips, and the white haggard
one, so piteously gaunt and drawn already,
met in a long kiss.

Ye'll cape her  wit ye  allays. An'
make her a gut girl  like yersel', Alley ? "
he said, brokenly.

She bent her head over the child, the
determination not to disturb him making
the tears spring agonisingly to her eyes.

The two boys came forward, one after the
other. Clancy had his stout brown fists in
his eyes, and his two red cheeks under

them showed long blistered streaks where
the tears had stained them. Andy's blue
eyes were wide and tearful too, but it was
evident that he hardly realised what had
taken place more than Katty did. He had
on an old coat of his father's cut down to suit
him, which gave him the quaintest grotesque
likeness to Hurrish. Lep, feeling evidently
that his turn too had come, ran over with
a whine to the bed, and, resting his fore-paws
uDon it, looked up into his master's
face. Hurrish patted him and said a word,
and, with another whine, the dog ran back
to the idiot, nestling close to his side and
looking appealingly up into his face, evidently
for sympathy.

There was a sound from the chimney-corner,
not loud, not much louder than a
whisper, but so hoarse and unnatural as to
startle the little group around the bed.

Dying' an' latin' me, Hurrish, me son !
Dying' an' latin' me ! " Old Bridget muttered,
rocking herself to and fro with a sort of
dreamy misery. "Me beautiful buoy that

HE D BE A GRAN MAN. 289

they're all jealous'. Judy O'Malley  an'
Deb. An' to be kilt by a Pagan child 
that I bad him never go nigh  forty little
spalpeens, not fit to be whitening' the flare
after him. An' to think of their daring' to
throw stones at me beautiful buoy, that
cud ha' kilt the whole ov thin  aise  only
they got him unbeknownst wit his back
turned ! But I'll be aven wit thin yit 1

I'll rn " Her voice died suddenly

away in harsh confused murmurs.

Hurrish glanced at Alley. " 'Tis stilts
she is, poor soul," he whispered.
She's thinking' ov wan time I was hit wit
a stone whin I was a gossoon, an' like to
die. I doubt but 't 'ul go hard wit her ! " he
added, glancing pitifully over at the gaunt
form, rocking itself to and fro, and the harsh
vulture-like face, so haggard and piteous in
its ragged setting of iron-grey hair.

Alley made a movement, as if she would
have gone forward to the old woman ; then
she suddenly stopped short, overtaken by her
habitual terrors. Almost at the same minute

VOL. II. T

Father Penalty entered. He had seen the
dispensary doctor, so knew what his opinion
was. After a few minutes, therefore, he
hurried away to prepare for the last offices
of the Church, his good - natured prosaic
face touching in its unaffected grief.

By the time he had returned, and this
ceremony was over, and the doctor too had
been back, and had done all that was possible
for the wounded man's comfort, it
was night, and dark again. Candles had
been lit,  a magnificent wax pair, long
stored for such a purpose  which stuck,
one into an old twisted iron sconce, the
other into a whisky bottle, lit up the little
room as it had probably never in its existence
been lit before.

Alley stood beside the bed as she had sat
or stood ever since Hurrish had been brought
home, and watched, and watched, as if her
very eyes had grown to his face. It seemed
to her that her own life too was going away
with his, drop by drop, minute by minute,
until now there was hardly anything left.

As the night went on, the wind sank, until
the silence outside was complete. Thady-
na-Taggart and Lep still lay together in a
confused heap upon the floor. The children
had long ago sobbed themselves to
sleep,  even old Bridget had sunk into a
heavy stupefied slumber, with her head
against the wall. Alley's thoughts were
full of strangeness. Sometimes it seemed
to her as if it was all a dream : sometimes,
that they were floating down one of those
strange underground rivers, which disappear
so often in the Burren under caverns  floating,
floating, slowing along, Hurrish and
she together. About three o'clock in the
morning, the door behind her opened softly,
and Father Denahy came in, and advanced
to the other side of the bed, making a sign
to her as he did so to take no notice. Hurried
had grown very restless latterly, and
kept tossing to and fro, flinging the blankets
ofi", throwing his arms in the air, and
talking rapidly to himself in a low excited
whisper.

Hurry thin, cap tin, hurry up ! " they
heard him mutter. " Thar they are, as I
felled ye, behind of the big rock ! Arrah,
aise  aise an' you'll have 'em. Who-ooo !
Be glory ! but yer th' gran' shot ! "

Alley went noiselessly forward and straightened
the blanket, bending over him to do so.
Suddenly his eyes, which had been half
closed, opened widely, and he looked her
full in the face.

"Isn't thar year still ? " he whispered,
tenderly. " Kiss me thin, alanah, for 'tis
the best wife ever pore man had in this
world ye're been to me, Molly darling ! "

The poor girl's white face crimsoned agonisingly,
and she drew back as if frightened.
The priest, however, made her an imperative
sign to do as she was told, and accordingly
she bent her head down to the bed again.
In the interval Hurrish seemed to have
forgotten his request, for he lay looking
blankly up at the ceiling. Alley was about
to lift her head again ; then, with a sudden
irresistible impulse, she stooped, and kissed

him passionately upon the forehead. Then
she drew back so as to be out of range of
the candles, and sat down suddenly upon a
low stool.

An hour passed, and still they remained
there,  Hurrish tossing upon the bed, the
other two watching him silently. Now and
then Alley would give him some water, or
settle the blankets and coverlet. The stillness
was absolute, save an occasional long-drawn
sound from old Bridget, the gentler
breathing of the children from the inner
room, a sigh or whispered word from the sick
man himself, and now and then the far-off
broken mutter of the sea. Thady-na-Taggart
had awakened, and drawn himself noiselessly
up from the ground, squatting like a toad,
or some strange Japanese image, with his
knees upon a level with his chin, his wild
vacant eyes fixed, as a picture's eyes fix themselves,
upon Hurrish's face. The daylight
was beginning to struggle in through the
small green panes of glass, making the candles
look faint and wan. The sick man's life

appeared to be rapidly slipping away,  so
rapidly that it seemed to both the watchers
that he was nearly gone. Suddenly he
opened his eyes, and looked round the room
with an air of surprise.

"What's Morry?" he asked, in a voice
which sounded almost as strong as ever.

There was no answer  neither Alley nor
Father Denahy knowing in the least what
to say. He did not seem to require any,
however.

"Such, an' why wud he stop?" he went
on in a minute, with a sort of self-reproach.
"Wit all he's  to do, an' all ov thin 
wanting' an' clamor' for him t'onct ? Ye '11
tell him I was  ain'  for him,  but
that I knew he'd ha' cum  if he cud. An'
ye'll guv him  me blessing'  pore Hurrish
O'Brien's blessing',  an'  tell him I  was
proud for to think ov him,  cum to what he
is,  riz up here  jist a bit of a gossoon at me
knee,  that nobody else  thought nothing
ov. But 'tis only what  I expected,  for
I  allays  said  he'd  be a  Gran'  man ! "

He fell back, breathed a few short gasping
breaths, and everything was over.

Father Denahy went forward after a
minute's pause and closed the sightless eyes ;
then, kneeling down beside the bed, recited
a few prayers. He expected to hear another
voice join in at the responses, but there was
none, till poor Thady, springing suddenly
to his feet with a cry like a dog giving
tongue, broke in with some sort of strange
inarticulate idiot's Latin of his own. When
the priest, getting up, looked around in
some surprise for Alley, he saw that she
had fallen a little way from him, and was
lying in a dead faint, with her face against
the floor.

CONCLUSION.

Is there anything more to acid ? A few
words, perhaps. Maurice Brady got off to
America, where for some time he led a
rather uncomfortable life amongst his compatriots,
who persisted, rightly or wrongly,
in looking askance at him, and regarding
him as a traitor to the national cause, and
the assassin of his own best friend. In the
end this amiability proved an advantage
to him, however, rather than otherwise, since,
instead of wasting his energies and talents
exclusively upon the comparatively barren
field of politics, it caused him to carry
them into the more fertile one of business.
He had a small sum of money to start
with, the remains of what his brother had
had in bank, and this, under his shrewd and

intelligent management, became the prolific
parent of what promises in time to be a large
fortune. He made his way, shortly after
arriving in America, to San Francisco, 
drawn there, perhaps, on account of its
being the farthest attainable point from the
shores of Ireland,  got a place in a large dry-goods
store, where his talents and smartness
were speedily appreciated ; and so well did
he prosjDcr, that within the last two years
he has set up a similar one on his own account
at Sacramento, which, according to the
report of a wandering compatriot, is fast
drawing to itself the chief fashionable patronage
of that important place. He is also said
to be married, or about to be married, to the
daughter of one of its wealthier citizens, but
this last item lacks, it must be avowed,
absolute confirmation.

Of our other acquaintances nothing equally
brilliant is, I fear, to be recorded. Mr O'Brien
is still at Donore ; still carrying on a hopeless
struggle with fate ; still hoping against hope
for some fresh turn in the hitherto inextricable

dead-lock ; still perpetually appealed toby
Mrs O'Brien to leave the whole wretched
thing in the hands of an agent, and to join
her and her daughters at Brighton. Young
Thomond has been appointed to a new ship,
and when last I heard of him, was cruising
about somewhere in the Antipodes. He is
as authoritative as ever about Ireland, never
failing to demonstrate convincingly to anyone
who will listen to him, the only method
by which, in his experienced opinion, to
cut the gordian knot in which its affairs
have been so long, and are still to all appearances
so hopelessly entangled.

As for our humbler friends, to them, as to
most of us, the recurrent years have brought
a mingled crop  good and ill, disappointment
and satisfaction. From the day of Hurrish's
death, Lep and Thady-na-Taggart struck up
a sort of antique friendship, and have rarely
since been seen apart. It has never been
quite clear to their numerous friends and
admirers which of the two partners is the
leader, but between them they manage to

lead that comfortable and not undignified
existence which, in Ireland, is the lot of
those who throw themselves with unbounded
confidence upon the benevolence of their
neighbours.

Hurrish's memory is not at all forgotten
at Tubbamina, where his feats of strength
are still boastfully recited, and his triumph
over the law and the " polis " constantly
spoken of in high terms of commendation
and approval. It is not, however, exclusively
upon these grounds that his fame
rests. Whenever any one for miles round
finds the burden  whether of life or of
pit tay tees "  too heavy to be borne, Hurried
O'Brien s friendly face and strong willing
arms rise as a sort of meteor from the
past to mock the woes of the present. Whenever
any lady or gentleman is refused the
trifle of assistance they request, his name
is instantly, and as a rule violently, flung
in the teeth of the churlish refuser. " Aught,
thin, Hurrish O'Brien, decent man, iv he
were 'live, wudn't ha' lit me be putt out

'pon th' road wet an' hungry this could
night ! "  promises, by dint of repetition, to
become a local proverb. There is a sort of
subtle aroma of kindliness and goodwill
which is often stronger than any one single
good deed that can be recorded of its possessor,
and something of this sort still clings,
and promises for a while longer to cling,
about his homely memory.

Old Bridget did not long survive him.
She continued very rambling and incoherent,
and it was never quite clear to those about
her whether she knew that her son was
dead, or merely imagined him to be absent
from home. Sometimes she was violent and
difficult to manage, but for the most part
she sat silently all day long over the fire
upon her creepy-stool, actively engaged in
stirring the pot, and equally assiduously
whether there was anything in it or not.
One day, while thus engaged, she suddenly
fell back, the iron ladle still tenaciously
clutched in her hand, was taken up
rigid, and never spoke again. After her

death  which occurred in the course of the
month which followed her seizure  Alley
Sheehan joined her sister in the convent in
Galway, and, after the usual period of probation,
became a nun, and is there at the
present time. She is very far from unhappy
in fact, may be described as actually happy.
Her gentle soul, too tremulous for a world so
full of harsh surprises, finds its repose in the
fulfilment of a small and very simple routine
of well-defined daily duties, and its happiness
in the prayers which her Church so humanely
and benevolently allows to be offered up
for those who have passed beyond the reach
of even the tenderest hands. Little Katty
by a special permission of the mother
superior  was allowed to accompany her,
and is at this moment the idol and unspeakable
torment of all the sisters, but is
not regarded by them as at all likely to adda
fresh recruit to their numbers.

As for the two boys, they are rapidly
growing up, and Andy is more than ever
the " moral " of his father, and promises with

years to attain to the same goodly proportions.
Perhaps by the time they have come
to years of discretion, Ireland will have
entered upon a new departure, though what
precise form that departure will take, and
whence its brightest hopes are to come, it
is a little difficult, it must be owned, just
now to discern. Enough perhaps that there
are elements in it which have nothing, fortunately,
to say to politics  of any complexion.
Kindliness, faith, purity, are good
spirits which may steer a boat through even
as rough waters as any that it has travelled
through, and bring it into safe anchorage at
last. Thus far we may allow ourselves to
hope ; the rest must be left to  " Time, the
nurse and breeder of all good."

