CHAPTER I.

THE Lovers' MEETING.

BERTOLDO and Plessis went together
to the Lung-Arno della Mecca Vecchia
on the following day, as they had appointed.
They went after eleven, and found the lovers
already there. They stood hand-in-hand
with their backs towards the two spectators,
who determined not to betray their presence
unnecessarily. Pulling their hats over
their eyes, they stole on quietly, until they
were within hearing distance.

*' My dearest Columba, this is very provoking
! It is three whole days since I have
met thee  and now thou tallest me that
I must see thee no more 1 "

I do not believe that it matters to you!"

VOL. II. B

Oh ! beautiful angel, do not play with me.
Listen, I swear that I love thee alone ! "

Bertoldo ground his teeth, but a warning
pressure of Plessis's hand kept him
quiet.

'' You say that you love me, but men 
chime ! are such liars."

Hast thou found it so ? That gives me
surprise ! Who could tell aught to thee, but
the pure truth ? "

*' I do not know ! But tell me, cannot
you live without seeing me ? "

'' It is impossible ! " he replied, melodramatically.


'' Poor thing ! "

'' But, Diavolo ! Columba, what is your
intention ? "

To come no more."
" Hast thou no pity for me ? "

Columba smiled; she had only been
playing with him from a desire to hear his
protestations  they had always been sweet
to her; but in her present frame of mind
they soothed her wounded vanity, and were
delightful.

'rit is well ! If thou art good I may
come to thee sometimes in another place.

But I cannot come here ; for they begin to
suspect me, and I fear something might
happen. There is no harm in our meeting
sometimes to talk, therefore, I will still
come ; but not often. Art thou content ? "

I see that I must be content "  and
he heaved a deep sigh.

*' What is that ring on your finger ? "

'' Oh ! it is only a little ruby ! '' And he
held up his hand reluctantly.

"It is very pretty," said Columba,
taking it off and putting it on her own
hand.

Grive it me back, bella ; it is too arose
for thee. I will bring thee a far prettier
one." His tone was so anxious that it
aroused Columba's suspicions, and she
determined to tease him.

''I do not wish for another; I prefer
this ! Give it to me, Signore."

'* I cannot ! Anything but that."

This is what I want  ah ! I see well that
you do not love me. All men are alike,
twenty soldi for a franc ! ' "

The young man stood irresolute, not
knowing what to do ; but Columba conquered
; '' I can say I lost it," he thought.
B 2

' Thou art mistress of all that belongs tome
! keep the ring if it pleases thee. It is
not pretty enough for thee; but thou wishes
forifc, therefore, it is thine."

Columba smiled triumphantly, and twisted
the ring round on her finger. To reward
him for his docility, she said archly : " You
will find me in the Cascine, at the second
Piazza, the day after tomorrow. You can
walk that way, if it pleases you, Signore."

'' Certainly, I shall be there, my beauty."

But now I must go. Signer Carlo.
It is not fitting that I stay longer.
Actio ! "

Arivederla ! "

She walked on a few steps, and then
came back to him, her face bright with
innocent mirth.

'' Take it ! there is your ring."

'' But I gave it to thee."

'' Did you think I would deprive you of it?
You have looked serious ever since I took it.
I know not who gave it to you; but it
matters not, I have seen that you love me
best." And, dropping the ring into his
hand, she ran quickly away.

He stood still, looking after her.

'' She is a good little thing," he murmured.


Soon after this, the gentleman walked
away along the Lung-Arno. When he was
out of hearing, but still in sight, Bertoldo
exclaimed :

'' Let me kill the thief, Plessis ! "

No, friend, we must act with prudence,
and make no scandal. See you not, that our
Columba is a little flirt, but she is yet a
child, and quite innocent."

I could observe nothing but that
brigand ! "

It may be that he is a brigand, but we
must thick first of Columba. I wish to find
out who he is, and then I will recount all to
her relations, and they can guard her. Goto
thy house quietly, and let me follow him.
Thou art too angry to act with judgment ;
I will tell all to thee afterwards."

I trust thee. Go, and good speed ! But
kill not the traitor, for I consider that to be
rrnj privilege ! " And Bertoldo left Plessis,
and walked hastily along the Viale.

Plessis followed the gentleman, keeping him
well in sight  but he took care that he should
not know that any one was following him.

Plessis particularly wished to find out
who the young gentleman was, before
they denounced him. to anyone ; for that
ruby ring (which the gentleman had held
out so that Plessis could see it perfectly)
had put strange thoughts into his head. It
was the exact counterpart of the ring he
had sold to the English lady; and he felt
sure that no other such ring existed in
Florence. The design of the setting had
been his own, and was as peculiar as it was
handsome. Could this really be the same
ring that beautiful creature had bought, with
a blush of tender love ? And was it to be
thus lightly prized by the ungrateful rascal
on whom she had bestowed it ? Her pure
and beautiful face arose before his mental
vision, and he felt that he hated this man
even more for her sake than for Columba's.
Had he not already discovered Columba's
real nature, this interview would have been
as trying to him as it was to poor Bertoldo ;
but he had watched the lovers with the
clear-sighted eyes of an indifferent spectator.
Columba was evidently not in love with this
young gentleman, though her vain little head
had been turned by his notice. She appeared

to be enjoying a comparatively innocent flirtation
 if such. a thing can be termed innocent.
Plessis thought that this trouble had
been occasioned by his own fault ; for he had
let the girl go out alone, and that had led
her into mischief. But she appeared to
him not to be thinking of marrying this
gentleman, but merely of wishing to be admired
by him. Whatever his intentions
were, he was sharp enough to understand
what sort of girl he had to deal with, and
he had evidently uttered no words but those
of innocent admiration and vague protestation.
He had been so careful not to frighten
her that he had never attempted a caress.
Poor Bertoldo's mad jealousy blinded him
to the truth, but Plessis guessed all this.
However, he saw that the love-making must
be put a stop to at once. He would let no
one have cause to make malicious insinuations
against Columba. And again, now
that their engagement was broken off, she
might begin to dream ambitious and impossible
dreams o a gentleman-husband.
It must all be put an end to as soon as
possible. Poor silly little Columba ! He
pitied her sincerely. But he almost smiled

to himself at the thought of the way in
which he had once ideahzed her, and how
different was the real Columba to what he
had fancied her. He felt thankful that he
had escaped that danger. And poor
Bertoldo ! he was not fancy free  and none
knew yet how his troubles were to end.

All this time Plessis had been following
the gentleman, and they had now reached
the via Borgognissanti, where the young man
entered a house. Plessis went up to it,
and made a mental note of the number:
Standing abstractedly before the door, he
did not even see a gentleman who came out
of the house, so impetuously that he almost
knocked him down.

Excuse me ! A thousand pardons for
being in your way "  said Plessis.

I cannot believe my eyes ! why, it is
thou thyself, my Plessis," returned the
gentleman.

Ah ! Signor Minuti, it rejoices me to
see you ! I did not at first recognise you."

"Nor did I recognise thee. What art
thou doing there, standing like a statue?
Surely, thou dost not find that house picturesque
? "

Oh, no ! " and Plessis laughed  and
then added : " I am in a perplexity, Signer
Minuti, and perhaps you could give me help.
May I tell you all my story  it is a long
one?"

'' Certainly, my son. Come with me to
my studio." And the old man placed his
arm in that of Plessis, and they walked
together to the studio.

Something in the old man's kindly sympathy
won Plessis's confidence, and he told
him the whole history of his life, beginning
with his love and his hopes, and ending with
his disappointment. When he told of his
discovery of Columba's true nature, and of
his consequent disillusion, and the breaking
off of their engagement. Signer Minuti
arose, and going up to him, clapped him
cordially on the back, and shook him by
both hands.

My son, it is well, most well ! I congratulate
thee."

Plessis smiled. "It is not usual to congratulate
a man on losing his betrothed."

'' Ah, son, thou hast but lost a woman.
Thou wilt now find thy Art she will claim
thee for her own ! "

*' Do you not believe in women, Sign ore ? "

'* Not in such women ! She would have
ruined thy career. There are some of
another kind, angels of light, who spur
men on to great deeds. They are not the
rivals of Art, but her ministers. It may
yet be your lot to find a Beatrice  a
Laura."

I hope so ! But I will not think of
such things now. You have not yet heard
all my story. Do I weary you ? "

Oh no, not a bib ! Can you not see,
imbecile ? " and the old man resumed his
seat with a good-humoured laugh. He
shewed great interest in the whole of
Plessis's narrative, but when he told of
Columba's gentleman-lover, of the ruby ring,
and of his remembrance of the English girl,
then the old man's face grew very serious,
and his manner became troubled.

'' Ah ! Plessis mio, this is a bad world, a
very bad world ! But thou art a good fellow, so
I will confide in thee, as thou hast confided in
me. Know, that this devil infernale, whom
thou hadst followed to the house where we
met, is a certain Conte Carlo Bentivoglio ; he
is a gambler and a roue, and as bad as can be

imagined. But, by his deceptive gallantry,
be lias gained thelieart of an angel, at whom
he is unworthy even to look. She is a rich
Inglese, evidently the same lady that you
saw, for you have described her exactly.
He loves her not for her beautiful soul, nor
even for her beautiful face, but only for her
money. Diavolo ! think of that ! an angela
pearl, to be married for her money by such
a rascal ! And actually she has consented to
marry him. She is so innocent, she cannot
even believe in such wickedness as he commits.
Ah ! this world, this world ! She is of age,
therefore no one can prevent her from marrying
him. Her parents are dead, and she lives
with a silly, unsympathetic old aunt, whom
she heeds not the least. Though thy disclosure
will pain her, it delights me ; for I
hope it may be the means of awakening her
from her delusion and saving her. As the
little peasant girl is foolish and innocent
there is nothing in this matter that we
cannot bring before the young lady. I am
sure her good heart will be full of indignation
against the Conte for his wanton trifling
with this child ; for he might have ruined
her good name. And the young lady's

jealousy and pride will be aroused when she
hears how her lover woos other women  and
would even have given away her present.
You must go and tell her all."

'' Oh no ! Signore, I pray you to do this
yourself! You are an old friend, and a
gentleman. How could I speak  to pain the
young lady ! " and his face flushed.

'' We will go together. For Miss Ina
Laurence knows I do not wish for her marriage
; therefore, although she would hardly
doubt my word, I prefer to have a witness."

'but Columba, what can be done for her?"

I advise you to take her home to Fiesole
as soon as possible. You can tell her that
the gentleman is engaged to a young lady ;
and I think that will put an end to the
romance in her quarter. No doubt she will
marry the young farmer, if he still cares to
have her. I daresay this shock will take all
the folly out of her."

Good Signer Minuti, how little he understood
Columba,  or Ina either, for that
matter ! A woman's heart is a curious and
delicate thing, so mysterious in its workings
that it needs time and experience, even for a
woman to know her ow7i heart.

LIKE A QUEEN.

WHEN they readied the door of Ina's
house, Signor Minuti looked at his
companion, and was struck by the peculiarly
woebegone and embarrassed expression on
his face. A sudden compunction seized the
good old man, and he perceived that it
would not be fair, either towards Plessis
or the young lady, to deal this blow so
publicly. No ! he would break the news
first, and then call Plessis in as a witness.
He sighed deeply ; but he made up his mind
to do his duty manfully.

The Signora is not ready to receive,"
said the servant.

"It is the Signorina I wish to see."

'' Enter then, Signore."

When they had reached the first floor

landing, Signer Minuti said to Plessis : 
'' You wait there till I come for you. I will
speak with lier first."

Plessis felt much relieved that the artist
had decided on this course of action. But
after he had seen his friend disappear into a
door-way, and the servant had run downstairs,
a sudden tremor came over him ; and,
strong man though he was, he felt obliged to
seat himself upon a large wool-work divan
that stood in the middle of the entry. How
terrible it would be when Signor Minuti
called him to confront that beautiful young
lady, for him to tell her of her lover's perfidy.
That last word called up the thought of the
sorrow of which he was the unwilling messenger
; and he forgot his own embarrassment
in sympathy for her and her pain. His
heart beat in responsive throbs of agony, the
echoes of what she must be suffering. Were
those beautiful tender eyes full of tears  was
she in a swoon ? Ah ! he wondered how she
was bearing her trouble. He sat there in
suspense, hearing nothing but the beating
of his own heart. At length a door behind
him opened  he started to his feet with a
blush upon his bronzed cheeks. He only

saw a comical-looking old lady, with a
tumbled wig of hair, a striped dressing-gown,
an extraordinary cap, and spectacles awry
on her nose.

'what want here?" she said in bad
Italian.

''I await the Signor Minuti," saidAlessio,
bowing politely.

Oh, well 1 " and she vanished again.

This episode seemed like comedy in the
midst of tragedy, and only made the suspense
more trying than before.

At last ! Yes, the door through which
Signor Minuti had disappeared opened, and
the painter came towards him. His face
wore a puzzled expression ; but Plessis was
too much agitated to notice that, or anything
else  he merely followed mechanically.

When he entered the drawing-room he
saw a sight he never forgot in all his afterlife.
Standing by the window was Ina, her
face rather pale, but apparently calm ; there
was a questioning look in her tender hazel
eyes, and she leant with one hand on the
window-sill. A ray of sunlight fell upon her
head like a golden glory  and to Plessis' s
poetic fancy she seemed more than a mere

mortal creature. So calm, so unmoved, surely
she was a very queen among women.

Signer Minuti could not understand Ina
in the least. She had expressed no doubt as
to the truth of what he had told her ; she
had merely listened passively. Was her calm
the calmness of despair, or was she callous
and heartless ? He looked at her doubtfully.

Not so Plessis ! he understood her better.
He approached her timidly and reverently.
She looked at him with no recognition in her
gaze. How should she remember a common
jeweller! There was a questioning, wistful
light in her eyes as she turned to him. She
knew he was a jeweller, but she did not
guess that he was the young genius the
painter had praised so warmly the night
before. She was trying to find out from his
countenance whether she might believe his
word. Something told her that she might
trust him. Her quiet was not the quiet of
despair or of heartlessness ; it was the calm
of one who had received so sudden a shock
that the mind was not yet able to realize it.
What were vague, lover-like alarms, sad days
passed in waiting, compared to such a certainty
as this would be ? That her lover

loved her not ! She shivered slightly and
clasped the window-sill tighter. Then,
drawing herself up bravely, she said, in a
sweet, low voice :

'' Signor Minuti tells me that you have
something to say to me. He told it tome
himself, but I could not understand
him very well. You will oblige me if you
will tell it to me again  the whole truth,
please ! "

Plessis wished himself anywhere but
where he was. He looked down at the
carpet nervously, and his cheeks flushed a
deeper red. Suddenly, he remembered what
a mean scamp this lover of her's was, and
how utterly unworthy of such a woman ; so
that to break off the marriage would be to
save her from certain misery. This thought
gave him courage, and he looked her in the
face with the light of truth shining in his eyes.
He would tell her all, for her own sake.

He repeated word for word what he had
heard the Conte say to Columba. When he
mentioned the ring she gave a little cry and
pressed her hand to her heart ; her lips
quivered ominously, and she turned her back
upon them. Plessis continued speaking,

VOL. II. c

L

telling her of how Columba had returned the
ring.

Then there was silence.

Ina did not cry, or scream, or faint. Her
eyes were full of a supplicating agony, and
her lips moved in silent prayer for strength.
It was given. And, when she again turned
her face towards the two men, they were awestruck
by her beautiful and wrapt expression.
This was not what they had expected. That
she suffered deeply was evident ; but she
gave no sign. She was a brave woman 
strong with a courage not of earth.

Thank you for telling me the whole
truth. This  this young girl is  is  what
is she?"

She is a naughty little flirt, though an
innocent girl. She was engaged to Plessis
here."

Ah ! I understand. So this has wrecked
your life too. And she loved Carlo  Signor
Bentivoglio  the most?" And Ina looked
at Plessis with some pity, but also with an
expression that seemed to say, that it was
very natural any girl should like the Conte
best.

'' No, Signorina. I had myself broken

off our engagement yesterday morning ; for
I had already discovered that la Columba did
not suit me. But she certainly must have
been flirting with the Conte whilst still engaged
to me. As for loving, though !  why,
I do not believe she ever loved either of us*'

*' You do not understand," Ina said, decidedly.
*' You tell me she is young and
innocent, and  and  that  that he was
courting her ; how could she have helped
loving him ? It was not possible ! "

"But now it will all be at an end ; she will
go home, and he will not be able to harm
her," said Signor Minuti, consolingly.

*' What are you saying ? Do you think
he would wish to harm her ! Do you
think I could feel happy if I knew that she
was breaking her heart for him, and he his
for her  and all because of me ! "

*' Why, Ina, you are mad ! What do you
mean ? "

This, Signor Minuti," and she spoke with
a sweet and simple dignity that was far more
touching than tears : " Conte Carlo Mentis
loved me once  yes, he loved me truly
then  and we became engaged. Afterwards
I noticed a change in him, but I did not then

know the reason. Now I understand it all.
He had seen another, one whom he liked
better, and his love for me died, killed by
the power of this stronger passion. Do you
think he would have forgotten his love for
the sake of a mere fancy ? That he would
neglect me to flirt with a peasant girl ? Ah,
no ! I know what the poor fellow must have
suffered. Bound by honour, he could not
break his pledge to me, and he remained
true to it, although his heart was given to
another. But they shall be united, and I
will no longer prove an obstacle to their
happiness."

'you little idiot! you little angel!"
exclaimed Signor Minuti, as he seized Ina's
hand enthusiastically. His eyes were glistening
with a suspicious moisture, and his voice
trembled as he spoke. '' Ah, Ina ! this
comes of feeding the imagination on pure
romance and noble sentiment. Why, child,
you know nothing of life. Do you mean to
say, that you think Signor Bentivoglio would
marry a contains ? "

If he loved her ! " Ina's eyes flashed
indignantly, and she drew away her hand
with the air of an offended queen.

Plessis felt that lie could have fallen down
at her feet, and have kissed the ground she
stood upon. To think that so vile a rascal
should have won a heart like this !

*but, I tell you, he would not marry
her."

'you mean that their disparity of rank
would be disagreeable to him ? I cannot
think that you are right. But if you
are, then it shall be my duty to show Signor
Bentivoglio that true love is worth more than
noble birth, and honour more than life."

'' I think we had better leave you now.
I am sorry, my dear, that we have been
obliged to pain you. "

*' You could not help it ! Life is full of
pain. It is always best to know the truth."

'' Which you are very far from doing,"
thought the painter. " Alas ! poor child ;
the greatest shock yet awaits her when she
learns a twentieth part of the meanness of
the creature she has loved. Good-bye, Ina,"
he added aloud.

Good-bye, Signore. And you, too, goodbye,
 and thank you. I pity you, for you
also must have suffered."

'' Your servant, Signorina ! "

To the last she appeared brave and self-controlled
; but when they had left her she
flung herself down on her knees beside the
sofa, and cried as though her heart would
break. She felt that henceforth all the
world would be a blank to her. She was
still determined to do her deed of self-sacrifice,
but she counted the cost. Ah 1
how fervently she prayed to God, with what
yearning love her heart turned to that Father
whose love overshadow us all. She felt
that His was indeed a tender love that would
never forsake her  and she said to herself
that beautiful verse : 

He shall cover thee with His feathers,
and under His wings shalt thou trust :
His truth shall he thy shield and buckler."

And when she arose from her knees she
was comforted.

*' Ah 1 Signore, how I thank you for
having taken me there. You have given mea
memory I shall treasure all my life. It is
an honour to have seen her  among women
she is indeed the queen  a pearl without
price ! I said to her ' your servant, Sig-normal

and those words of mere form came
from my heart. What would I not give to
be her servant,  to work, to fight, to die in
her service ! And I should feel myself but
too well paid if she gave me only a smile."

*' Take care, Plessis, that thou loses not
thy heart." And Signer Minuti smiled.

''Oh, Signore, this is not a moment for
such thoughts ! And she is too far above
me ! A man may love an angel in Heaven,
or a crowned queen  love, admire, revere.
Those are my feelings for her. The mere
idea of any other thought offends me."

The painter saw that the young man was
telling him the exact truth. His poetic
imagination and chivalrous feelings were
fired with an innocent admiration, kindled
by the vision of a surpassingly noble woman.
It would be wronging his friend to try to
bring his thoughts down from Heaven to
Earth.

*sand, Signore, you speak of my losing
my heart. It seems to me, that if I fill it
with her image, I should, in effect, find my
heart. Filled by so sweet a dream, think
how precious it would become ! Why, the
world already appears to me more beautiful."

'* Thou hast reason on thy side, Plessis !
There lives not a more good and beautiful
creature. But, alas ! she suffers."

'* Not alas, Signore ; for she has the
courage to endure. And it is the noblest
who are given the most to bear  because
they are so near to God that He can comfort
them. Yes ! and He will comfort her."

S

CHAPTER III.

THE FALSE AND THE TRUE.

AFTER parting from Signer Minuti,
Plessis entered his shop. He stood,
silent and thoughtful, in the door-way that
led into the house. He remembered that
Columba had appointed to meet her gentlemanlike
on the day after the morrow, and,
of course, this rendezvous must not be permitted.
He also thought how disagreeable
was his own position with regard to her 
apparently her betrothed, in reality nothing
of the kind. How much had happened on
this most eventful day. He did not for a
moment entertain such wildly Quixotic hopes
as Ina Laurence ; for he knew her lover's
character better than she did. He trembled
for her as he thought of the cruel awakening
that awaited her. The more he thought, the

more advisable it seemed to him, that he
should tell Columba the truth at once, and
convey her home that same evening. She
would be safest in her mother's keeping ; for
he had no authority over her now, if, indeed,
he had ever really possessed any. It was
their dinner hour, so he decided to let them
eat in peace, and then afterwards break his
tidings to Columba. He did not fear for her
heart  he knew that if she cared the least
for any one, it was for Bertoldo.

Their dinner passed off quietly and uneventfully
; la Fortunata being in a good
temper that day, for she was going to a wedding
party in the evening, and her thoughts
were full of the glories of a certain spotted
muslin that she lead been most carefully ironing
for the occasion. Signora Sunta was, as
usual, sweet-tempered and unselfish. Plessis
appeared grave and silent ; Columba, flushed
and excited. She could not understand her
lover's allowing their quarrel to last so long.
And, by timid coquetries, she strove to open
the way for him to make it up again. But
he never even noticed her gentle blandishments,
and thus filled her mind with wonder
and dismay. By the time dinner was over

she had grown quite uneasy ; therefore, she
hailed as a good omen Plessis's proposal that
she should go with him into his studio.

She sat down opposite to him, but he did
not long remain quiet, for he started to his
feet and went to the window, apparently
to scan the horizon. He could not bear to
look at Columba whilst he shamed her ; and,
heartless little flirt though he thought her,
he knew that he should pain  at least her
vanity. Till now he had thought that telling
her would be a comparatively easy task, but
now many doubts assailed him. He felt
curious to see how this girl would bear his
tidings ; he had already seen how another
bore them, but she was an angel, and more
than a mere woman, he thought.

'' Art thou still angry with me, oh, Plessis?
How true is the proverb that says, * Love
and Jealousy were born together.' "

What effrontery in her to talk thus, as
though they were still affianced ! Her words
so angered him that he found courage to
commence his task. He turned half round,
and said, gravely :  '' Love and Jealousy
may have been born together  and, if so,
they certainly die together. As I feel no love

for thee, Columba, neither can I be angry or
jealous."

Plessis ! tell me, art thou serious ? I did
not believe what thou saidst yesterday."

And yet thou didst act as though thou
belie vest it well."

What dost thou say?"

I say that thou didst act as though thou
wert a free girl ! "

Columba turned pale. What could he
mean? "But thou art jealous?" she said,
half plaintively.

I tell thee, Columba, I am not jealous.
Arch-priest ! will nothing make thee believe
me, when I tell thee that I love thee not, 
that thou art not for me ! "

Columba covered her face with her hands,
and sobbed aloud.

To Plessis these appeared as crocodile's
tears, and he became still more angry. He
did not perceive that she was really troubled
by the thought of the material comforts she
would lose, and the fear of her parents' anger,
and the shame and discomfort that awaited
her. She felt humbled to the dust ; she was
indeed being punished for her sins. So she
continued to cry miserably.

** Oh, woman, woman ! Truly do they say
' who says woman, says evil '  and, ' those
who wish thee ill stroke thy skin ! ' I am no
longer deceived; thou art not a dove, thou
art rather a serpent ! Why dost thou pretend
to care for me when thou hast so fine
a gentleman for a lover ? "

Columba started to her feet  " What ! "

I say, thou hast a gentleman for a lover,
and I saw thee with him this morning. Take
good heed, Columba, that he does not play
with thee ! He is affianced to a rich and
beautiful lady, and he does but divert himself
with thee."

'' Thou lies ! "

'' I lie not ! I do but tell thee the truth. I
know where he lives, and where his betrothed
lives. I have spoken with her, and I sold
her the ring he gave thee so unwillingly."

Thou insulted me ! Oh, holy Madonna,
hear thy child ! Is all the world combined to
mock and deceive me r " and she sank back
into her chair, pale and quivering.

Plessis pitied her now, and he began to
repent his roughness. Usually gentle, it was
the thought of Ina that had made him so stern
to Columba  and for this he was already

sorry. He approached her penitently ; but
she started to her feet with flashing eyes.

'* Touch me not ! Ah, thou Har ! Thou
cruel brigand, thou first insulted me thyself,
and then pretences that all other men are
like to thee ! But thou art wrong 1 My Carlo
loves me ! Yes ! he loves me. And thy
stories are worth nothing. He would not dare
deceive me ! And if he did  by all the saints
in Heaven ! I would kill him. Know, that
it was my promise to thee that has kept me
from encouraging him ; but now I will become
a grand lady  and what will a stupid ox of a
goldsmith matter to me then ! "

This abusive speech made her seem quite
repulsive to Plessis, and he said to himself
:  '' Mercenary little wretch ! " and
again contrasted her with Ina. Still he
could not let Columba remain in this very
dangerous frame of mind, for she appeared
capable of committing any rash act. He
must try and convince her of the truth.
Her vanity blinded her, as much as Ina's
innocence had blinded her, to the true character
of Conte Carlo.

I tell thee, Columba, that the Conte
would never marry thee ; he is affianced."

I tell thee, Plessis, that thou art a liar,
and I believe thee not ! "

Will nothing convince thee?"

I must see it with my own eyes. Art
ready to take me to the house where his
affianced lives ? "

I will conduct thee there ; but we cannot
intrude upon the lady."

Wilt take me ? "

What Columba expected to gain by seeing
Ina's house is doubtful. Perhaps she did
not believe Plessis, and wished to try him ;
perhaps she believed more than she showed,
and wished for further evidence.

They walked in silence to the old painter's
house. Standing in front of it, Columba
looked at the building suspiciously.

Wilt thou go home now ? "

No ! I will enter that carpenter's shop
in the old wall opposite, there to watch,"
said Columba, resolutely. " If what thou
hast said is truth, he will come ; and if thou
art a liar, I shall see thee blush."

Suddenly, Plessis felt her grasp his arm,
and, following the direction of her eyes, he
saw the Conte leaving the house opposite ;
with a most dejected aspect. Columba turned

pale as death, and her breath came in quick
gasps.

She held Plessis until the Conte was out
of sight, and then, dropping his arm, said ina
hurried whisper : " And now we will go in
and see Ter."

'part mad?"

Into ! but I now think thou art not a
liar, and I would know the whole truth. I
hate thee  but not as I hate Mm, if he has
deceived me. Thou wouldst have married
me if I had treated thee better ; thou hast
never preferred another to me. But if he
meant to play with me, and loved another,
by Heaven  I will "

'* But were yoio not playing with him and
with poor Bertoldo ? "

That is another thing. Be silent, for I
will not be further insulted ! "

Columba crossed the street and gave a
loud pull at Miss Laurence's bell. Plessis
felt miserably embarrassed, and wished he
had never brought her there. But if the
servant admitted this little virago, the least
he could do was to go in himself with her.
Alas ! the servant showed them in, and
straight up into that very drawing-room

where he had already been that morning.
Ina sat there alone.

The change in her appearance gave Plessis
quite a shock; for she already looked ten
years older, so sad, so hopeless, was the
expression of her beautiful face. She felt
that she had received a mortal wound  and
that all things were now indifferent to her.
In her noble unselfishness, she had been
willing to resign her lover, heart-breaking
though it would be to lose him. But to
resign her ideal, to find that her lover had
never been truly hers, that she had given her
heart to the most worthless of men  ah !
that was indeed terrible agony. Now she
felt a dull and hopeless despair.

At first, Conte Carlo had tried to laugh off
her accusations and suggestions, treating
them as jealous fancies ; but at last, being
angered by her persistency, he told her
plainly that he was merely flirting with the
girl, and that it was not her business to
inquire into his conduct when away from
her. She must not suppose that he never
meant to look at another woman.

Then Ina, in her turn, grew indignant, and
said that he could not deceive her ; he must

VOL. II. D

be in love with this other girl, and that he
ought to marry her. At this he laughed,
and said he would go to the Devil sooner !
If Ina would not marry him herself, she had
no right to dispose of him elsewhere ; and
he added some coarse and bad expressions
that quite awoke her from all delusions regarding
his character, She then told him
proudly, that all was over between them. On
her saying this, he retorted that he could
easily find consolation elsewhere ; the little
contains should amuse him.

But, as soon as he had left the room, the
Conte regretted that his evil passions had
got the better of his judgment, and thus,
possibly, lost him so rich a prize. Why had
he answered her so idiotically ? So he
left the house with a crestfallen mien, inwardly
cursing his bad temper. But before
he reached his own home, he had determined
to pay her out. After all, it could only be a
fit of jealousy.

Ina stood pale, calm, and silent like a
statue  and seemingly as indifferent as
marble itself. She did not even notice the
two persons before her.

Columba was astonished and awestruck 

she could not help admiring her rival, and,
therefore, feared and disliked her the more.

Plessis was the first to break the silence.
His melodious voice vibrated with intense
sympathy, as he spoke :

Oh, illustrious Signorina, forgive our
intrusion, I pray you ! This young girl is
the one of whom we spoke. She would not
believe my words, therefore she has come to
you  to hear that you are the betrothed of
Conte Carlo."

Ashen he spoke, Ina gave a start like one
awakened from sleep. And on hearing his
last words a slight shiver passed over her.
She seemed to make a strong effort to collect
her faculties, and then, looking wearily at
Columba, said in a strange, husky voice :

"' I idols the betrothed of Signor Conte
Bentivoglio, but I am so no longer. I tried
to induce him to marry you ; but he has no
honour, and I could do nothing. I pity you
but what power have I ?  he was born to
break our hearts."

"He has not broken mine! Ah, the

brigand ! so he would deceive me, play with

me ! You may be a saint, Signorina, but I

am a woman. Am I to remain on the little

D 2

chair because of him, and be unmarried all my
days ? Are all men to deceive and slight me ?
Am I neither to have the position of a jeweller's
wife, nor become a Contessa ? Chime ! I am
most unfortunate ! " And she flung herself
into a chair, and sobbed violently.

Plessis had been looking from the flushed
passionate face, to the pale and calm one,
and thinking what a good picture they would
make  they were such a complete contrast.

Ina made a gesture of repugnance towards
Columba, and murmured : '' They are
all alike. The world is full of the wicked,
false, and mercenary  and I used to think
it so good ! "

'' No ! Signorina, the world is not all bad
it is mixed."

"But what can you say for him  for
her ? "

For him, nothing ! For her, that she is
innocent, foolish, and ignorant; but not all
bad."

I do not understand it ! I think she is
all bad ; for she deceived you, and all along
only thought of self-interest, and never loved
any one. It is, perhaps, better for one-self
to have no heart, but "

'' No ! Signorina, excuse me, but it is not
better to have no heart. The more we suffer,
the more noble we become. Love ever works
for good. The base cannot understand unselfish
grief, and. it is so much the worse for
them."

What you say may be true ; but, nevertheless,
it is hard to suffer," and her lips
quivered. She had forgotten Plessis's
station as she talked with him. It was a
moment of supreme emotion, and they spoke
their thoughts freely, untrammelled by
worldly distinctions.

'ewe must forgive this child, because she
does not understand what is right. She is
only seventeen, and quite uneducated."

I cannot forgive a mercenary spirit."

But, even as she spoke, Ina's heart softened
towards Columba. The poor little thing's
convulsive sobs had grown hysterical, and
her figure shook with wild mirth and passionate
grief. Ina took her in her arms,
softly caressing her. And, strange to say,
this had the effect of stopping her hysterics,
so great was her surprise and pleasure. As
she lay pale and trembling in her arms, Ina
thought how pretty and young she looked.

She must be silly, she could not be bad.
The tender, gentle heart, so little prone to
imagine evil, relented. She regretted her hard
words, and kissed Columba as affectionately
as she might have kissed a younger sister.

Plessis thought he had never seen anything
so angelic as the expression of Ina's face.
And he turned away quickly, unable to look
at her longer.

Columba was also affected, touched,
amazed.

'' Oh, Signorina ! " she said, in a weak
voice, " You are an angel, a saint! Let me
kiss your hand. Ah ! may the Madonna
bless you ! "

"And may she bless you, too, poor little
one."

Oh, no ! I am wicked, I have a devil in
my heart. I feel that I hate all men, and the
Conte most of all. I hold him in detestation
for his conduct to you as well as to me. /
would never have played with him had I
known he was yours ; but he kneiv, and
therefore he was an ugly toad ! "

'' It is no use abusing other people for
their faults, little one ; we should rather try
to correct our own. You must never flirt

any more, but do your duty faithfully, and
then, some day, you may marry a good man."

** I cannot think together of goodness and
of men, for they are quite opposite ! Oh !
Signorina, forgive me ! I am wicked ; but I
love you." And, impulsively kissing Ina's
hand, Columba rose to go. But she found
herself so weak that she would have fallen
had not Plessis assisted her.

' Good-bye," said Ina, gently and sadly.

Plessis looked at her with reverent admiration.
" Good-bye, Signorina ! Columba
is right ; you are a true angel ! "

'alas, no! "

They went out after this.

Ina, going to her own room, lay down
upon the sofa, with a weight as of lead on
her heart. She said to herself: ''I have lived
my life  and what remains ?  only Duty."

When they were out in the street, Columba
said hurriedly : '' Take me home, Plessis, back
to Fiesole. I will have no more of Florence !"

And so he took her home to her mother.

La Caterina looked at her daughter in fear
and surprise. There was no luggage. Had
she only come for an hour's visit !

' Columba is not very well, Signora
Caterina, let her go to bed now, and do me
the pleasure not to question her."

Columba kissed her mother, and went
silently to her room.

*' What is it, my Plessis ? "

Oh, Signora Caterina, my heart is heavy
at having to tell thee ; but I must proceed.
Thy Columba is foolish and young, and she
loved me not, therefore she has been flirting
with a Signore. All is over between us two ;
and I have brought her back for thee to take
care of her. Chime ! it was an ugly day
when she came into the town ! "

Holy Virgin ! most ugly ! Oh, my child !
my unfortunate one ! Thou greatest my
heart by thy news, Plessis ! And was it her
perfidy that made thee give her up ? "

'* No ! she was not suited to me, and loved
me not."

'' I had feared that myself, Plessis mio."

'rand then I found out that she was
courting with a Conte. But, though he is a
brigand, she is innocent."

'' I thank Heaven ! "

'' And thou wilt comfort her ? "

'' Ah, yes ! Poor little bird, who can love

her like lier mother ? But my Simonee will be
enraged. Ah ! this world, this world ! "

'' I will do anything in my power to content
him."

No ! thou shalt not. Shalt thou pay us
because we have spoilt our daughter, and her
head is so full of nonsense that she cannot
love an honest man ? Ah, no ! it is thou who
hast suffered most. I will bear all the
reproaches."

'' Thou art a good woman, Signora
Caterina."

I am a mother. Ah ! my Plessis, thou

knowest not what a mother feels when

the cruel hawk pursues the tender little birds,
do not their parents defend them, even to the
death  dying whilst covering their children
with their wings ? Even so would I do. To
have my little one back safe is great joy ! No
hawk can touch her here  she is in my arms,
on my heart, and love makes me strong.
Ah, blessed, blessed little Columba, flower
of my soul ! Woe to those who would Throng
thee, or think evil of thee ! When thou art
safe with me ah ! I can bear anything."

She ought never to have left thee,
Signora. We took not sufficient care of her.

We meant all for the best, but we gave her
too rnucli liberty."

'' Thou didst not understand her, Plessis.
I have been suffering from many fears, but
now I am content. Gro home, my son, go
home ! / will care for her now. Rest
tranquil ; all is for the best."

Happiest night, mother ! I go to see
Bertoldo."

*' Ah ! poor man, he too has suffered."

He loves Columba yet, and I think she
likes him best. Who knows ? all may yet
make a good end." And with that comforting
idea, Plessis left her.

Poor Caterina ! She had to soothe an angry
husband and try to comfort her child.
Columba was at present sullen and cross, and
she utterly refused to open her heart to her
mother, and would tell her nothing. Certainly,
Caterina' s lot was far from enviable.
But she prayed many prayers to the
Madonna asking her to help her, and she felt
much comforted before she closed her eyes in
sleep.

Columba did not rest quietly ; for in her
heart was the desire to revenge herself, and
she planned how best to accomplish this end.

CHAPTER IV.

VENGEANCE.

AT last Columba was thoroughly convinced
of Conte Carlo's perfidy. It had been
dijB&cult to make her believe him false ; for
the idea was most unflattering to her vanity.
The Italians are not, as a rule, a vain people,
for pride takes the place of vanity in them.
Columba, contains though she was, possessed
her share of pride ; but she had also a
perfect faith in the power of her personal
attractions. She had been flattered by the
attentions of a gran Signore ; but she had
never doubted that he would be glad to marry
her, if she would have him. She had not
meant to do so, however, as she was then
betrothed to Plessis. She was far too
innocent and good to suspect him of any bad
intentions towards her  and she was too

proud to think that lie merely wished to flirt
with her. Now that she understood that he
had been amusing himself with her, and that
he had all along been affianced to another,
her pride was aroused, and bitter was her
anger and mortification. She had asked
Plessis to take her home ; and now that she
was there, she found time to realize to the
full the misery of her position.

She was crouching alone near the window,
with pale cheeks and wild eyes, staring aimlessly
at the summer landscape. She had
refused to listen to a word of comfort from
her mother, and had only begged to be left
alone. Poor Caterina had wept many tears
that evening, before she went to bed, and
had prayed so devoutly to the Virgin  she
feared that her poor child's heart was broken,
and that it was the Conte she had loved, not
Bertoldo. In reality, it was Columba's pride
and ambition that were wounded, not her
heart and affections. As yet the wilful child
seemed to have no love to spare for any one
but herself. She was still unconscious of the
slight preference she had always cherished
for poor Bertoldo  the lover she had treated
with the greatest contempt.

In fact, she was unable to understand the
suffering she had caused Bertoldo and
Plessis ; for she had not loved the Conte,
and, therefore, did not know that wounded
love gives even worse pain than wounded
vanity. She fancied that what they had suffered
was as nothing compared to her own
misery. The bitter thought of having been
deceived, of having lost two good matches,
was as wormwood to her. She did not see
in the Conte's behaviour a just retribution
for her own conduct towards her two other
lovers.

Oh ! Dio mio ! how unfortunate am I !
To be treated like the dust of the earth, to
be played with as a girl of no account ! Was
it for this that I dismissed poor Bertoldo,
and made small account of that good Plessis !
For this  to be cast aside by a brigand who
never loved me ! Am I to remain with no
husband at all in the end ! Holy Virgin ! it
renders me mad, thus to have been made a
fool of. But  " and her eyes blazed forth
dark lightnings, and she clenched her tiny
fist  " But, shall I then permit it ! Shall he
laugh at me as well as at the poor Signorina
Inglese, who is an angel? Shall he tell his

friends of the little contains who caused
him such excellent diversion ? Ah, no !
mille tivoli ! this shall never be. Am I to
bear with patience that the neighbours
should laugh about me as the girl who
flirted, and whom no one will ever marry ?
No, no ! Columba Vestries was never made
to eat her own heart in silence. She will be
revenged, and the false traitor shall pay her
account with the blood of his ugly heart ! "

There was an intent look in her eyes now ;
for she was planning how she could best
accomplish her vengeance. Columba knew
that her father and mother were too gentle
and timid to help her ; she was too proud to
ask Bertoldo's aid ; and she felt that Plessis
was too good to have anything to do with a
blood-thirsty design. Yes ! with her own
hands, she must accomplish her revenge.
When the Conte was dead, they should not
send her to the galleys  life was ended for
her, since she had been thus slighted, and
disappointed in all her ambitious hopes.
She would first assassinate the perfidious
one, and then kill herself. How to do
the deed was her present difficulty. And
she sat there, pondering, until the sun had

sunk in angry splendour, and a dark, starless
night lead enveloped all things. Then she
shivered, and, closing the window, crept
silently into bed.

Columba slept but lightly that night ; bad
dreams troubled her, and she tossed from
side to side. Her last dream was of hurling
something down upon some one, and she
awoke with the death-cry ringing in her
ears.

This dream was an out-birth of her own
excited thoughts ; and yet, strange to say, it
was this very dream that showed her how she
could best accomplish her revenge.

Her room was* close to the small terrace
where she kept her flower-pots ; and, as her
door opened upon the entry near the terrace,
she considered it as her own sitting-room.
It was this same terrace to which Bertoldo
had mounted when he gave her the kiss.
Columba had one privilege connected with
it; namely, that it gave her the power
to leave the house whenever she chose
without her parents having any knowledge
of the fact  but she was not naughty enough
to use this power  though she liked to feci
that she possessed it.

The first tang she did on this morning,
was to rise from her bed and hunt for a sheet
of white paper, a quill pen, and a bottle of
ink. With compressed lips and frowning
brows, she sat down and wrote a letter. The
characters were very straggling and shaky,
and the spelling far from faultless ; but the
import of the letter was plain enough. The
little traitress told the Conte that she could
no longer meet him near the iron bridge orin
the Cascine ; but, if he loved her, he could
come to see her at her own house. She gave
the exact direction, and told him to come at
eight o'clock in the evening, and to go round
by the back-way and stand beneath the
terrace, where she would meet him.

She folded up and wafered the letter,
writing '' Conte Carlo " on the outside.
And then she began to puzzle her brains to
think of some one to deliver it for her. She
feared that she might be watched ; but she
forgot that Plessis had heard the rendezvous
appointed between her and the Conte, and
that he might, therefore, watch the Conte
also.

All that day Columba stayed in her room
with the door locked, and old Simonee stormed

and swore outside, in vain. He longed to
beat her, but was too miserly to break the
lock open. Poor Caterina cried outside,
also in vain ; for Columba's heart was
hardened, and she was deaf to the voice of
the softer emotions. In the evening she
stole out to look for a messenger, and nearly
encountered her angry father. So she ran
back to her room in despair.

The next morning she again rose early,
and had better luck, as she thought. She
met a young lad, who, for the reward of a
franc, gladly consented to wait for the Conte
in the Cascine, give him her letter, and keep
the whole matter secret.

She had not seen Plessis since he brought
her home, for he had sent her box by one of
his workmen. All the day long she lived ina
fever of suspense, still keeping her room ;
but eating some of the food her mother left
outside her door. Towards evening this
suspense turned to a wild excitement, and at
seven o'clock she already stood waiting on
the terrace.

'rit is certain that I am about to do a
righteous deed ; for I shall exterminate a
devil ! ''

VOL. II. E

As the moments sped on, her rage grew,
and her determination became stronger. She
longed to put an end to the wretch who had
tried to deceive her; and she felt that it
would be no more than he deserved. She
exulted exceedingly in being the one who had
lured him to his doom. And so she stood
there  calm, resolute, and vigilant.

We English should consider such a girl a
regular little fiend in human form, but we
should be judging her as an English girl, and
from our own standpoint of right and wrong.
Columba was of a far more passionate nature
than ours, and of a people who have still
much of the pagan element in them. She
was only about to do what many of her
countrywomen had done before her. And
she took the matter in a business-like and
cold-blooded way that would have made it
appear to us all the more revolting.

At last Columba heard a footstep on
the stones below. The night was dark ;
but she leaned over, and could dimly distinguish
the figure of a man standing exactly
beneath the wall of the terrace. Her heart
beat faster as she said softly  '' Die traitor !"
at the same time laying her hand on an

enormous flower-pot just above the place
where the man stood. She was pushing
it slowly to the edge, when a hand caught
hers  not in time to prevent the fall of the
pot, but in time to break the force of its
descent. The pot rebounded and broke
against the wall before it reached the
ground.

There was a sudden sharp cry, and the
man was no longer standing below.

Columba turned and saw Plessis, white
and stern, standing beside her, holding her
hand as in a vice.

Unfortunate and wicked girl, what hast
thou done ? Thou hast assassinated him ! "

'' I had that intention ! " she cried, exultantly.


'' Oh, mad one ! It is not the Conte thou
hast killed ! I took thy letter from the boy,
and met the Conte myself  I spoke strongly
to him, and made him promise not to seek
thee. Ah ! accursed is the devil that has
entered into thy heart and made thee assassinate
an innocent man ! "

*' I do not believe it ! " But her cheeks
turned pale, and she trembled in every lime).

Plessis fetched the lamp from Columba's
E 2

 .
 ,

bedroom, and, keeping hold of her hand,
forced her to descend the steps with him.
All the stern resolve and passion, that had
made her act like a little Jael, had now
entirely left her  and she was but a terrified,
miserable girl, little more than a child in
years and intelligence.

They approached the prostrate man, and
Plessis bent down and held the lamp to his
face  and then they saw  Bertoldo !

With a low wail of pain, Columba flung
herself down beside him, and kissed his still
face in so wildly passionate a manner that
Plessis feared she had gone mad.

Oh ! I have killed him ! I have killed
thee, thee, my poor Bertoldo ! This hand
that thou lowest has caused thy death.
Oh ! accursed that I am ! Heaven wills that
I should be punished for my sins, and sends
me the agony of being the assassin of my
Bertoldo. Truly, the hand that tried to
stop me was indeed an angel's  but Fate was
against me  it was my destiny, and nothing
could prevent this misery. Oh ! beloved,
beloved ! I know, now that I have killed
thee, that thou hast ever been my heart's
love. Chime ! chime ! misera me ! Holy

Virgin, take my soul into Purgatory, for I
am no longer worthy to live, now that I have
killed my Bertoldo."

'' Let me come to him, Columba; I do not
think he is really dead."

Plessis sprinkled water on the insensible
Bertoldo* s face. And, lo ! he opened his
eyes, and saw Columba bending over him.

'' Ah ! Diavoletta, wert thou not content
with breaking my heart, that thou must needs
break my head also ? "

Oh ! Bertoldo, I did not know it was
thee."

'' I am not entirely certain of that. Anyway,
I can make a process* against thee."

'* As thou wilt. Have me punished ; send
me to the galleys for life ; it matters not tome
; for my heart is full of joy now that
thou art not dead ! Oh, Plessis ! it was
indeed an angel in thy form that saved me
from a life of remorse."

'' Would it have mattered to thee if I had
died? " asked Bertoldo, sitting up, and
looking at her eagerly.

*' It would have mattered much to me 
the galleys would have been the least of my
Law-suit.

misfortunes  the greatest, to lose thee*'
And she arose with a blush, and turned to
go into the house.

But in an instant Bertoldo was beside
her, showing by his activity that he was not
much hurt; for, thanks to Plessis's intervention,
he had only received some bruises and
a cut on the head. He caught Columba's
hands in his, and held her captive.

Plessis walked quietly away. Leaving
the yard, he returned to his own house in
Florence. He felt quite easy in his mind
now ; for he knew there would be no further
tragedy.

Tell me, Colombina of my heart, dost
thou love me ? "

I love thee, Bertoldo.''

He clasped her in a warm embrace, and
his heart was comforted at last.

"What wert thou doing down there,
Bertoldo?"

I desired to be nesLrthee ; that was all."

Ah ! thou dost not know how wicked
I have been," she said, timidly.

'eyes, I know all."

*' And is it possible that thou still lowest
me?"

** Thou hadst my heart, Columba, and I
could not, if I would, call it back again. I
cannot help loving thee, most beautiful one !
I know that thou hast not loved me as I
have thee  but I have loved all the more, to
make it equal."

Truly, poor Bertoldo had been much
changed and improved by his love and
sorrow. And Columba felt ashamed of her
own unworthiness as she listened to his
words. She inwardly vowed that she would
honour, love, and obey him all the days of
her life.

Long did the lovers linger there, saying
sweet nothings. Columba had begged to be
forgiven, and had been forgiven with many a
loving word and caress. At last she said,
playfully :

*' Thou wilt not send me to prison ? "

' The only prison I have for thee is herein
my arms, upon my heart, beloved. For
thou must marry me soon, Columba."

** I will marry thee, Caro, when thou wilt'*

Ah ! heart's desire, thou knowest my
wish  it is to have thee as soon as possible.
Let us now go to ask thy parents' consent."


Greatly did Simonee and Caterina rejoice
over this new engagement. They had
been sitting together, dolefully picturing to
themselves the condition of their unfortunate
child, who, they imagined, was crying
alone in her room. When, lo ! the door
opened, and two radiant young persons
entered, and asked their blessing upon their
betrothal.

Columba threw her arms around her
mother's neck, and, with tears of joy, told
her that she was perfectly happy now ; and
that she was sorry for her past naughtiness,
and hoped that her mother would forgive
her.

Caterina knew that her daughter would be
happy now ; for she had chosen the husband
best suited to her.

Old Simonee muttered to himself : " She
might have made a richer match if she had
been prudent ; but, as she is an idiot of a
woman, it is best that she take him, else she
might remain without any husband in the
end''

Bertoldo went home that night with a
heart full of the most perfect content and
thankfulness. He did not see Columba's

faults  because he loved her blindly  but
even his love, such as it was, was strong to
save. For, as Columba laid her head on the
pillow that night she said to herself :
Holy Madonna, I thank thee ! Thou hast
blessed me beyond my deserts. Thou hast
saved me from misery, and there is no longer
the evil passion of revenge in my heart.
To me, now, the Conte matters not. I can
think of nothing but my Bertoldo. I will
cook him the best of dinners, keep his house
as clean as possible, and be to him a docile
and obedient wife. Oh ! Holy Saints, bless
him ; for he is good and faithful the sweetest
cake in all the world. I will love him all my
life until I die, and my soul goes to thee,
Holy Madonna'*

columba's wedding.

IT was a bright summer's day when Plessis
was awakened by a loud knocking at his
bedroom door. On his saying " Passage "
(Come in), a rough-headed peasant lad entered
hastily.

"What do you want, friend?" asked
Plessis, sleepily.

Excuse me, Signor Picture, is it not the
truth that you have been invited to the
wedding of la Columba Yestris this day?"

'certainly, friend; but why wake me
before eight o'clock, when the Mass is fixed
for the hour of eleven ? "

Yes, yes, Signore ; it was fixed thus ;
but the good priest says he is hungry and
weak, and cannot wait for so long; the
ceremony must take place before ten."

Plessis laughed, as he gave the boy ten
centimes, and sent him out of the room.
But the priest's message did not seem by
any means so strange to him, as it would
to us.

Plessis was utterly without regret with
respect to Columba ; and he indulged in no
sentimental memories. The whole idea had
been a dream  a creation of Fata Morgana
from which he had been awakened most
completely. His only feeling was one of pleasure,
at the thought of Bertoldo's happiness.

So, it was with a light heart that he
dressed himself in his best clothes  in honour
of the wedding.

*' Where art thou going, Plessis mio ? "
asked his mother, tenderly.

'' To the wedding of Columba and Ber-told."


'' Listen to this story ! Thus goes the
world ! Thou dresses thyself like a prince,
nephew, to adorn the wedding of thy sweetheart
! Truly, thou hast little respect for
thyself."

Silence, silence, dear aunt ! " said
Plessis, good-humouredly ; ** have I not told
both you and my mother, that I myself broke

off my marriage with Columba Vestries. This
being the case, I am glad to see her wed my
friend, the good Bertoldo."

'' It is not true  not a word of it ! Ah !
no, I know the world better than you think,
nephew. You cannot deceive me'* And
Fortunata tossed her head incredulously as
she left the room. But, though her private
opinion was, that Columba had treated
Plessis very badly, and that he had not shown
half enough spirit,  yet she expressed herself
in public after a very different fashion 
saying to the sposa next door : '' That was a
worthless girl, Columba Yestris : our Plessis
was forced to give her up ; but he has a good
heart, he would not let her die an old maid ;
so he found her a parties in his friend,
Bertoldo. And he goes to their wedding
to show every one that he approves of the
match. Yes, our Plessis is a good boy ! '*

Our Plessis " was now seated in a fly
driving to Fiesole as fast as possible 
having due regard for the good priest's
hunger.

The last time he had been on that road it
was for a very different purpose, and he
could hardly realize that so short a time ago

he had been speeding to Fiesole to save
Columba from a great crime ; whilst now he
was going to rejoice at her wedding.

Such is life  comedy and tragedy interwoven
as woof and warp.

Plessis went to Bertoldo's house, and
proceeded with him to the church, where
they found the rest of the wedding party
awaiting them.

Bertoldo was nervous, but beaming with
happiness. Columba looked rather pale,
but very beautiful. She was dressed in black
silk, and wore a lovely set of gold ornaments
that Plessis had given her as a wedding
present. Catera was tearful  the father
triumphant. All the guests were pleased, 
for they knew that the good Catera had provided
an ample feast.

Columba smiled gratefully when she saw
Plessis  though she inwardly wondered at
his pleased and tranquil air, and realized,
with a pang, that he did not regret her. But
this was only a momentary feeling of
wounded vanity, and she was really glad to
see him happy. She loved Bertoldo as well
as she could love, and was quite content.
The Conte was forgotten  she only thought

of her sposo now, and of her own promotion
in becoming a wife.

The sun shone brightly upon the happy-party,
and the Mass was proceeding quietly ;
when suddenly, just in the middle, a great
clamour was heard in the Piazza outside 
the barking of a dog and the shouts of boys.

The hungry priest turned sharp round
from the altar, and exclaimed : " Oh ! who
the Devil could do anything with such an
accursed row ? Be off, some of you, and clear
me that Piazza ; or, by Bacchus ! I shall
leave the altar. Ia ! I say." *

Away scampered a dozen ragged little boys
at full speed down the church ; and the
uproar became worse than ever.

Bertoldo turned red, and Columba bit her
lip with vexation. But Plessis walked out
quietly, and restored order in the Piazza 
returning with the guardia nobile to witness
the end of the interrupted ceremony.

When the Mass was concluded, Bertoldo
went to pay the fees, leaving Columba
standing by her mother.

Then, a rush of all the gamins towards the
door took place ; and they nearly massacred

A fact.

each other as a shower of confetti (sugar-plums)
was rattled upon their heads by the
bride's relations and friends.

Mortars were fired off at intervals all day"
and, in fact, there was a general Festa.
In the evening a band played, and there was
a dance in the Piazza.

The dancers were mostly peasants, who
had been invited by Catera and her husband
to Columba's wedding. The Piazza was
illuminated by oil lamps  and a bright moon
shone down on the merry-makers.

Some of the dances were pretty, but the
quadrilles ended in universal chaos, and the
waltzes had a churning movement far from
graceful. A friendly sergeant of infantry, in
military uniform, directed the dances in
French technical phraseology, and danced
like a posset.

The supper arrangements were peculiar 
as all the guests walked off to the Trattoria,
where tables were laid, and paid for their
own rations, entertaining the Yestris into
the bargain.

The ancient matrons of the party were
silent to a degree, and, being all strictly
classified in a row, they looked just like so
many criminals awaiting capital punishment.

The young women were very sober, and also
sat in long files, holding no social intercourse
with their partners. The young men
clustered outside the door in passages, and
made no attempt at conversation. The prevailing
air was of deep gravity and careworn
seriousness, though they were all really happy.
After supper, dancing began again, and a
very pretty country-dance was enacted. It
represented a courtship in pantomime, most
expressively pressed and rejected. The girl
always eluding her partner's outstretched
hands, and escaping gracefully from his
advances until he retired worn out, to be
replaced by another swain, who gained the
day by beseeching the lady's favour in a
wonderful figure danced on his knees.
Nothing could have been prettier than the
defiant snap-of-the-finger way in which the
little contains flew away from the rejected
partner, or the gracious, relenting reception
she gave the humble admirer on his knees,
and the final clasping of hands over their
heads as they danced together the last steps.
Plessis stood silently watching the others'
enjoyment. He looked rather pale and sad ;
seeming the one apart. A hand touched his.

and, turning, lie saw Columba looking up at
him with beaming eyes.

' Art thou happy, Columba ? "

Oh ! so happy, Plessis, that I fear to
breathe the word, lest it should all vanish at
a touch."

'' May it continue a thousand years ! I
wish thee every good. But now, Colombina,
you must excuse me, as I have to return to
Florence."

Columba hesitated, then, blushing crimson,
she added hastily : " And I wish that you
may one day invite me to your wedding ; and
that you may be as happy as we are  for,
surely, you have deserved it much more
than I."

Plessis sighed, but he thanked her gently,
and, kissing her hand, stepped out into the
darkness alone.

'that page is turned," he thought;
'' Columba and Bertoldo have a new life
before them. But for me  is my life
finished ? I must no longer place my faith
in la Fata Morgana, and build palaces in the
sky. But, oh! Dio mio ! if this love is a
dream, let me die still a dreamer. The
English poet Shakespeare says : ' It were

VOL. II. F

all one that I should love a bright particular
star, and think to wed it.' And even
so is she to me  as ' a bright particular star ' ;
she shall guide me and light my path. My
footsteps shall no longer stumble 'neath the
glow of a meaner light. This may still be
Fata Morgana ; it can but be ideal  but it
shall be eternal. Good-bye to you both,
Columba and Bertoldo ! Simple, happy souls,
you could not even understand my feelings 
in my world I am alone."

ALESSIO S QUEEN.

INA'S life was now very desolate ; she
tried in vain to sing or paint, and at
last gave up the struggle as fruitless. From
a sad habit, she often walked to her window
to look out, and then, recollection returning
to her, would sigh and turn away.

She felt her loss far more deeply than
Plessis had felt his ; for his awakening had
been gradual  hers a more sadden blow.
And then, woman-like, she had staked her
all on the cast of a die. She had seen her
beautiful dream fade as a mirage in the
desert and now only the desert seemed left
to her.

Plessis had his Art to comfort him. And

then, he had also the germ of a true and

noble love in his heart  a love that could

but die with that heart itself. His fancy for

F 2

Columba had been but a vain imagination ;
Ina's for Carlo was a mistaken and romantic
idealization of an unworthy object, but still
there had been more personal preference
in it.

Ina was a noble woman, and she did not
mean to spend her life in useless regret ; but
she felt she needed a change, so she determined
to leave Florence, where everything
around her reminded her of her sorrow.

Mrs. Hume was delighted with Ina's
desire for change, and gladly helped her in
her preparations for departure. For, though
sincerely sorry for her niece, she was still
more sorry for herself ; and, as she told
Signor Minuti : "A girl suffering from
blighted affections is not the liveliest companion
in the world!" In addition to her
home troubles, Mrs. Hume was at present
suffering from outside worries. A great
celebrity had visited Florence, and, on Mrs.
Hume's hastening to pay her respects to the
lion, she had received a most decided snubbing.
And, moreover, many Italian grandees,
who had formerly courted her for her niece's
sake, now quietly dropped her; for they
knew that Ina had " turned melancholy," and

that she refused to go into society. Therefore
Mrs. Hume agreed eagerly with her
niece's proposal ; and they began at once to
prepare for their departure.

Plessis was quite cheerful now ; for he felt
that he had escaped from a great danger.
He had never been calmly happy during his
engagement ; it had been but a ti doubled
pleasure  a rose with many thorns.

He set himself to work with new energy
and earnestness  he must do his part in life,
and no longer dally with Art.

Both Columba and her husband regarded
Plessis as their best friend, and considered
that they owed their happiness to him.
Fortunata still expressed great indignation
when speaking of Columba, and, though she
had spoken loudly against the match, she now
spoke just as loudly against " the flirt " who
had slighted her nephew ; though she added,
*' She was glad Plessis had shown sufficient
sense to get rid of the little fool ! "

Plessis visited Signor Minuti's studio
constantly, and always managed to ask
after the Signorina Laurence. Soon the old
painter learnt to save time and trouble by
proffering the desired information. Plessis

was grieved to hear of the continued sadness
and despondency of the young lady,
and of her altered appearance.

One day Signor Minuti called at Plessis's
house to speak to him. He was ushered
into the parlour by la Fortunata, who told
him that her nephew was out, and asked him
if he would sit down and wait.

Certainly, Signorina, if I do not incommode
you:"  said the old man, with an
amused twinkle in his eyes, for he knew that
she dearly loved a gossip with him. And
he, for his part, was not averse to this unintellectual
occupation. For he was sufficiently
English in taste to derive amusement from
the quaintness and originality of his country-people
-that is, of the lower classes.

'' Ah ! I am already half dead ! I have
ironed all this blessed day ! But, it is my
destiny. However, I can sit with you to
divert you for a moment, Signore, though,
as you know, I have always much to do, and
my health is most miserable. Patience ! "

Certainly ; you are a most amiable
woman to bear your misfortunes with such a
holy patience," he replied, in a tone of grave
sympathy, but really with secret mirth.

La Fortunata was gratified, so she said
amiably  '' Ah ! Signor Picture, you are
troppo garbage ! You are not like the other
men, who do not understand us women.
You are such good company, you always
cause me to laugh, and  ' every time one
laughs, one takes a nail from one's coffin ! '
Would you credit it, Signore, this morning
in the omnibus I beheld a marvel, and had
occasion to remark what an extraordinary
nation are the English ! They are not
civilized at all, and we may truly call them
barbarians."

'' You render me curious, in truth ! Tell
me, Signorina, what did you see? "

I will tell you the whole story. At the
Piazza della Signora, I stepped into the
omnibus with the intention of going to the
Santa Croce. All the places were occupied,
except one, and we were just going on  when
lo ! some one called to the driver, and entered
the omnibus. It was an English lady. I
must say, she was a fine piece of womankind,
fat, and with a beautiful colour on her
face. Her hair was grey, and all curled, and
she was dressed well enough, in some purple
cashmere stuff. To look at her, you would

have said  ' That is a lady '; but you will
hardly believe me when I tell you that this
lady carried in her hand a large basket.
Fancy the shame ! I blushed for her. Why
could she not have carried a red spotted
handkerchief of cotton, such as I do? It
would have been much more decent. As
you well know, Signore, no respectable
Italian woman would ever consent to carry
a basket. But this shameless one sat down
as though it was nothing, with that ugly
basket on her lap. I looked around the
omnibus, and all the other women gave me
glances, and we stared at the Inglese  who
never noticed us. At last we grew ashamed
for her, as she sat near the door, and the
persons in the street could see her. So we
began to make her signs to put her basket
under the seat ;  she did not seem to understand
us at all, and stared, at us as though we
were all so many mad ones. We continued
to make signs, and the stupid Inglese to stare.
At last, she turned to me, and said :
' What do you all want ? '
'" It is the basket, Signora,' said I.
*' ' What do you want with my basket ? '
returns she.

*' ' Want it ! Mamma mia ! Ob, no,
Signora ! We meant that you might like to
put it under the seat ? '

'' 'Why should I put it under the seat ? '

' ' Because a Signora should not be seen
carrying a basket, and we are all ashamed
for you.'

On that, the idiot burst out laughing, and
held her basket tighter than ever. And we
all thought within ourselves :  ' How indecent
are the English ! ' "

The painter concealed his amusement at
this characteristic anecdote, and said gravely :
" But, Signorina, in different Lands there
are different customs. In England the
ladies all carry baskets, and only common
labourers carry spotted handkerchiefs ;  the
ladies there would be ashamed to carry a
bundle."

La Fortunata shook her head, and
muttered  " They are barbarians."

'ewe have had a good harvest this year,"
said Signor Minuti, by way of changing the
subject.

"Pretty well, Signore; but the people of
the country round Pistoia have had a bad
sowing of the seed ; the rain began too early.

They prayed to the image of their patron
saint to stop the accursed rain ; but he would
not listen to them. Then they told him they
would beat him if he did not attend to
them ; but he was still obstinate ;  so they
beat him  but he was like an ox, most
obstinate. So they put him down a well, to
see if that would make him hear reason."

'rand did he?"

In effect, he did. And after ten days
the rain ceased."

'' And what became of the poor saint ? "

'' Oh ! they took him out of the well, dried
him, and put him back in the church. As he
was of wax, some of his colour was spoilt, but
it will be a good lesson for him, and teach
him not to be so obstinate another time."

*' We must hope that he will profit by experience,"
said the painter gravely. '' And,
did I not hear that the picture of the
Madonna of the Church of the Santissima
Anunziata is wonderful in its power of
stopping the rain, when it is exhibited ? "

Yes, truly ; but it needs a very bad
harvest for the people to have courage to
bring that forth, as it costs them so much.
They have to pay three hundred lire, or

perhaps even seven,  I am not exactly
certain but I know it is a large sum,  to the
Municipal, for permission to have the picture
uncovered."

'* Then the Government actually taxes the
Virgin?"

'eyes, the brigands ! They say that if we
receive a grace we'must pay for it ; and we
do that thoroughly. First comes the bad
season, then the Municipal with their tax,
and then all who go to pray to the Madonna
offer her a piece of money as alms to her
church. Thus, it appears to me, that we
pay well for a little grace. I cannot help
telling of this, for, as you know, ' the tongue
strikes where the tooth hurts.' "

At that moment Plessis entered, and
greeted his friend warmly.

'' I wish thee io come to walk with me.
Canst thou, my son ? "

"With pleasure, Signore."

'' Good-bye, to meet again, Signorina."

And the two men stepped out into the
street together.

*' I wish to walk on the Yiale dei Coll,"
said Signer Minuti, putting his arm through
Plessis's.

It was now the beginning of winter, and
the day was cold and clear. The sun shone
brightly, and everything seemed to sparkle
with a glad and vigorous life. They walked
to the Collii by the Porta Romana, and, as
they lingered on '* the most beautiful drive in
Europe" (as the Florentines call it), they
admired the broad, expansive view before
them. It was less extensive than the view
from Fiesole, but even more picturesque.

*' Oh ! my son, thou canst not tell how
thankful I am that thou hast escaped that
little contains. Think of the many great
men who have suffered from unequal marriages
! "

lam not a great man."

Not yet, but thou wilt become one. Thou
hast it in thee. Thou wilt be considered a
good painter whilst thou, art in life, and a
great one when thou art dead. And to think
that a little contains might have turned a
genius into a simple showman ! I am glad,
however, that her wayward little bark has
reached the shore in safety. She was a pretty
child, I grant  but she was not for thee ; 
too dear is that honey that one licks from
thorns ' ! "

** Yes, she is safe now, and quite happy.
She and Bertoldo suit each other to a
marvel ; and she is improving every day.
Bertoldo says that she tries hard to learn to
be a good house-wife, but, as yet, she
makes mistakes  for she is very ignorant.
But she lias good-will, and he is content.
'To every bird its own nest is beautiful.' "

Uequiescat in pace. Being, as the English
say, ' off with your old love,' do not
begin looking out for a new ! It is not
likely you will ever find a woman to suit
you, and I may truly say of artists  ' Who
marries does well, and who marries riot does
better: "

But, Signore, you married ! "

I am not a great painter. But, to tell
the truth, I would rather have had my poor
Mary than have been a Michael Angelo."

'' And may I not feel the same ? "

First, you must find an angel like Mary ;
and there are not many of that kind in the
world."

Ah, yes ! Signore, I shall never marry.
I will only love my Art  Art shall be my
wife."

The old painter smiled rather sadly.

They had by this time reached the Piazza
Michael Angelo on the Collii, with its statue
of David adorning the centre. They paused
near the marble balustrade, looking at the
prospect before them. Suddenly the painter
felt Plessis give a start of surprise, and
following the direction of his eyes, he saw a
young lady dressed in black sitting on a
marble bench near. She was gazing dreamily
at the distant city ; he recognized Ina
Laurence.

Plessis had not seen her since their
memorable interviews, and he noted the
change in her appearance with sympathetic
pity. Signor Minuti approached her, still
holding Plessis's arm.

Good-day, Signor Minuti. How you
startled me  I did not see you coming I "

She took no notice of Plessis, who sat down
on the further end of the bench, as Signor
Minuti placed himself between them.

'' Why are you contemplating Florence so
earnestly ? "

'' Because I am wishing it good-bye. I
may never see it again, and I would carry
away its picture in my heart."

Plessis started ; he felt a sudden spasm

of pain. He had not heard of the projected
departure before, and he could not bear the
idea  why, he could not have said.
You leave soon ? "
'' In three days."
' Are you glad to go ? "
'' Yes, and no ! But I dearly love fair
Florence ; it is a city that seems to find the
way to one's heart. See those distant blue
hills, and the Duomo and Campanile shining
in the sunlight, all so wide, clear, and grand.
Why is the world so beautiful and yet so
sad ? Why are we so bad and life so good ?
It seems to me inharmonious, and it saddens
my spirit."

*' What is your opinion, Plessis ? " said the
painter, wishing to bring the young man
into the conversation  and willing that Ina
should hear some of his thoughts. It was
well that Plessis did not notice the gesture
of impatience that Ina gave, when Signer
Minuti appealed to him. The reason for
this movement on her part was, that the
young man recalled painful memories, and
so his very presence was disagreeable to
her.

He answered gravely and simply ; his rich

voice falling and rising in a melodious
cadence, almost as though he were reciting.

'' It seems to me, Signore, that the world
is not all good, or all bad, any more than are
its inhabitants. It is but the outward symbol
of our natures, and everything in life has
some counterpart in us. See that blue sky,
without cloud or reflection  such is Life.
But the clouds will come, tender pink first,
for joy  that is Love ; then the dark shade,
for Sorrow ; then the long night, for Death
and parting  then will the sun arise with
new splendour, as our souls will float in
Paradise, free, enraptured, and blessed. Ah,
Signore, I love the world; I love Nature
in all her aspects, grand, wide, and bountiful.
God gives it to us to take us out of ourselves,
to console us, to bring our thoughts to Him ;
and to teach us to be thankful'*

*' Thou art right, my son. What think
you, Ina; is he not a poet?"

I think he is more religious than I am,"
said Ina, with half-grudging praise. She
did not even like to hear the sound of his
voice ; and his words seemed like a rebuke
to her. But she could not help owning that
there was truth in what he said.

** Oil, no ! Signorina. I am sure you are
far more religious than I. I have so many
faults, and I fear that I have not considered
these subjects enough. But I love the good
Grod and all His works, as you do also, no
doubt."

If bad men are God's works, I do not
love all His works ! " replied Ina, sharply.

*' Little babies are God's works, and they
are innocent. We have free will, I believe,
and it is the wickedness of our own hearts
that makes us bad. The created world is so
beautiful, on purpose to make us good and
contented; only we will not see it aright."

I do not understand such things ; and I
feel too unhappy to consider them," said she,
with a sigh.

Just then an empty carriage drove up,
and Ina said to the old painter : " Will you
not come back with me to dinner ? "

I do not like to leave my friend," replied he,
hesitating, and secretly wishing Ina and Mrs.
Hume were not too proud to invite Plessis.

'' Have no care for me ; I shall do quite
well, Signore. You lose the Signorina so
goon, every hour of her company must bo
precious. Good-day ! "

VOL. II. G

And, taking off his hat to them, with a
bright smile, he walked away. Ina bowed
coldly, and went with Signor Minuti to the
carriage. Then  turning suddenly, she followed
Plessis.

"Forgive me!" she said, gently, " if I
have seemed unkind or rude to you. I
am so unhappy ! You were right in all you
said, and, please God, I shall yet grow to
think as you do." And she held out her
hand to him. He touched it reverently
timidly. She then left him, and seated
herself in the carriage by the side of the
astonished Signor Minuti.

When they had driven out of sight, Plessis
still remained standing where Ina had parted
from him. There was a strange radiance in
the expression o his face, as he murmured
to himself : " For that lady I could die !
She touched this hand. I swear that it shall
achieve great things in honour of her ! And
I pray to God that it may never be sullied
by an evil deed, or become unworthy of the
hand that has touched it. She is a queen
among women, and J am her servant for
ever.'''

Well, Ina, I am glad that you have met

him. I wished you to know more of him.
He is the genius I told you of. Do you
not think him a fine fellow ? "

There is one thing puzzles me, Signor
Minuti ; he looks like a man who could really
love, and  he was engaged to the little
peasant who has married some one else ; and
yet  he does not seem to mind it. Is that
the efibct of his religion, or what ? "

He is a good and pious young man, I
grant. But I must admit that I do not
think he had much to bear in this case. We
painters are an imaginative race, and too
often make ourselves miserable for life by
our fancies. He has had an escape, and
knows it."

'* I cannot understand that ; I think people
love  or do not love. There must be a want
of depth in his character."

'' That there is not ! It is its very depth
that makes Plessis's nature capable of a
grand and noble love, and also gives him the
powcx' to cast aside a rootless fancy, created
by his poetic imagination."

'rit may be as you say; but I do not
understand him. And though he seems an
interesting character, I own I never wish to
G 2

see him again ; for the sight of him is painful
to me."

'' Poor fellow ! "

"It is not his fault. After all, it can
matter to no one ; for we are in such different
spheres of life that we shall never again
meet each other."

*' I think you are in different spheres ! "
said the painter, indignantly. " Bee is in the
paradise of Art, and is filled by noble
aspirations  whilst you, poor child, are
stumbling in the Slough of Despond."
Signor Minuti would hardly have spoken so
strongly to Ina if he had heard her last
words to Plessis ; but, as it was, he was
growing impatient with what seemed to him
her intolerable pride.

Anyway, I shall be in Rome, and he in
Florence ; so we need not quarrel about
him. Yes ! Signor Minuti, I daresay he is
far better than I am  he could not well be

worse."

No ! silly child, you are a good girl, and
I love you dearly ; and in any trouble mind
you come to me, for I have adopted you as
my daughter. But then, you see, I have
also adopted Plessis as my son  and my

children should love each other  or, at least,
respect," he added.

And I will respect him ! You would
not care for him, if he were unworthy. In
this world we cannot know each other's
hearts, and must be guided by external circumstances
; but we can, at least, be
charitable, and I fear I have been growing
uncharitable. My brother is more religious
than I, and, therefore, he rebuked me ; but
I will respect him  and try to believe."

You are a good child, Ina, and one cannot
expect you to forget your trouble ; but I
can see that you will, in time, conquer it.
You have a brave heart, and Providence
always helps those who help themselves ! "

PASTING.

ALESSIO saw Ina once again, two days
after their meeting on the Collii. She
was walking in the town at the time. She
spoke to him, and he walked along by her
side the length of a street.

I hope you will succeed well in both
painting and poetry ! I daresay Signor
Minuti will tell me about you ; for he
intends writing to me." She spoke in a
gracious, condescending way, and he replied
as a minstrel or troubadour of old might
have done.

'' Yes, Signorina, I will strive to be
great  both because it is well to do one's
best, and because I would that you should
hear good of me. Your kind wishes will
give me strength, your sympathy will endow
me with patience."

Ina thought his words a little too strong,
and far more than the position warranted.
She did not know the man ; therefore, she
misunderstood him.

'* I do not see that my approbation need
give you so much pleasure. I am no judge
of art. Signor Minuti is both your best
friend and best critic, I should say."

' Oh, Signorina, it is your encouragement
that is of the most consequence to me.
What Beatrice was to Dante, you are to me.
There is no one in the world I admire so
much."

Ina drew herself up, pride and indignation
in her expression. Without a word she
left him. And thus they parted.

** She is so proud that she would not even
let me admire her," thought poor Plessis,
bitterly. His admiration had been so simple
and innocent that he could not understand
how he had offended. It was such respect
and homage as he would have accorded to
a queen. He had hoped nothing, fancied
nothing, and the mere thought of love, in
the ordinary sense of the term, would have
been offensive to him. Suddenly, however,
an idea flashed across his mind  that she

had not taken his words as they were meant.
What was in reality innocent homage, she
had, perhaps, considered impertinent components
and love-making. His cheeks
flushed, and his heart seemed almost to
cease beating, so overwhelming was the idea.
Thus Ina herself, was the first to cause the
idea of love to enter Alessios mind. He
had never imagined that he could dare to
love her in any other way than as a faithful
servant. He now perceived that his words
must have sounded bold, and he also saw
how hopeless would have been any attempt
to court her. She was so proud, so  but
the very thought that he could have courted
her, was rapture. Thus he went home
hopeless, but triumphant. She was his
queen  though he could never be her king.

As for Ina, she hurried along, feeling very
indignant. It was not pede that had made
her so angry with Plessis ; but she thought
that he, knowing her recent disappointment,
should not have dared to speak words of love
or admiration to her. What had she to do
with love ? Ah ! all men were alike bad 
and Signor Minuti was deceived in his fine
young genius.

But, before Ina readied her home, she
was fated to meet with another adventure.
She saw her false lover standing by her side,
and heard him speaking words of eager
pleading. He really was in love with her,
after his own fashion ; and, what he could
not get easily, always acquired an additional
value in his eyes  and he also regretted the
loss of her fortune.

'' Ina, my beautiful one, look at me ! I
am dying for your sake ! I cannot exist
without you."

She turned very pale, but replied firmly,
and with irony in her tone.

'' I am sorry to hear you cannot exist
without me ; for, if so, you will die early
tomorrow morning, as I then leave Florence
for ever."

Oh, my love, you mock me ! Is your
heart of stone ? "

'' Alas, no ! it would have been better forme
if it had been."

'' But you look ill, you too have suffered !
I am sure you do love me still ! Say
you forgive me, and all shall yet be
well ! "

' I do not love you in the slightest degree,

and it is as much as I can do, to prevent myself
from hating you."

'' You do not mean that ? "

'ado!"

*' Oh ! you drive me desperate ! I shall
commit suicide."

I do not think you will ; but that is your
own affair  I cannot prevent you."

** Cruel one ! my death will be at your
door ! " and he rushed away, looking quite
tragic.

Conte Carlo actually went to the Lung-arno
and gazed down at the water ; but it
looked so cold and muddy that he turned
away with a shudder, and, going into a
cafe, ordered some brandy, which he drank
with great gusto. He decided against
suicide, and began to arrange his plans for
finding another heiress.

Ina went into her house wearily. She
was not pained by Carlo now ; but she was
thoroughly disgusted. How could she ever
have cared for him ! All the world was
hollow and bad, she thought.

She stood by her window that evening,
looking down at the old archway for the last
time. Tears rose in her eyes as she thought

how lie had loved the place and all her
surroundings. It was here that she had
once been happy, and dreamed sweet
dreams  never to be dreamed again. The
evening light streamed softly through the
old arch  the city bells were ringing the
hour  and everything seemed sad and subdued,
as Ina stood there saying to Florence
her last good-bye. In the street below she
heard a poor idiot singing a sad and plaintive
air in a minor key, composed by himself.
This lad's history was a very sad one. When
a child he had had a bad attack of scarlet
fever, and whilst still in a weakened state
his brutal father had beaten him until he had
beaten all the sense out of him. Before the
man died he bitterly repented his cruelty,
and left his only child (the idiot) heir to all
his savings, including much jewelry, linen,
and a shop. His foolish mother wished to
marry their showman, who loved some one
else, but would have married the elderly
widow for her money. Had this marriage
taken place, and had his two uncles not been
left his guardians, the poor Lello would have
fared badly. People said his mother was fond
of him ; but this seemed more than doubtful.

for she used to beat her son frequently.
And when death seized her  before she had
time to commit her matrimonial imprudence
her son's mental and bodily condition
was much bettered ; although his uncle and
nine cousins soon squandered his patrimony.
But as they clothed and fed him
well, the rest mattered not to him.

At the present time, Lello's mother was
still living. He was a stumpy, thick set
youth of eighteen, with a decided taste for
music, He would stand still, and listen in
silent delight in Ina's garden, when he heard
her singing in the drawing-room  for the
servants often employed him on small jobs,
such as watering the flowers, and carrying
the things home from market. One day Ina
gave him a cake, and he afterwards said to
the servants, with great elation : *' The
Signorina likes me ; she gave me a cake ! "
He was simple-hearted, grateful, and harmless.
But, unfortunately, he sang in the
streets, thereby attracting the attention of
evilly-disposed men and boys, who made
sport of him. Once they tied him, head
downwards, under the arch of a bridge near
Fiesole. On several occasions these wretches

had nearly killed him by giving him spirits
mixed with petroleum to drink  besides exercising
their ingenuity in smaller cruelties,
such as shaving his head, and stealing his
hat. He often said he wished he were dead
like his father, and as he walked along the
street he sang this sad refrain : 

Poor Lello, thy mother has struck thee.
Poor Lello, poor Lello.
The mother strikes Lello.
Poor Lello, poor Lello."

The words and music were his own, and so
often did he sing this monotonous, plaintive
strain, that others caught it up, and it
became one of the popular street airs. Ina
often heard passers-by singing " Povero
Lello." Lello is now a well-known character
in Florence, and is liked and pitied by all
but a few street rascals. There was a rough
inequality in his voice, as in his poor injured
brain  and Ina thought that she had never
heard anything more sadly pathetic than
that unfortunate lad singing to himself, and
calling himself " poor Lello."

Her eyes filled with tears, and she reflected
how ungrateful we all are for the

blessings we possess. " What if I had been
Hke poor Lello ! " she thought.

The shades of night descended, and the
stars twinkled above, and Ina said good-bye
to Florence. She prayed that if ever it
were her lot to return, that she might then
have become better, happier, and more
resigned.

ALESSIO's IDEAL.

IT was exactly one year since Ina left
Florence, and it was again the early
winter season. Many changes had occurred
for Plessis. He had consented to share
Signor Minuti's studio, and had now become
a professional artist. The old painter had
also persuaded Plessis to live with him, ashe
said it was more convenient to be near
the studio. For that reason the young man
had yielded. But Signor Minuti's true
motive was, that he knew the young man
would never rise whilst he continued to live
in the shop  patrons would scorn his surroundings,
and he would never enter that
society in which he was so fitted to shine.
The old man would not have encouraged
unfilial conduct, but he saw that a temporary

separation was best for all parties.
Assunta acquiesced most unselfishly in this
arrangement ; and, as her son visited her
daily, she did not repine. La Fortunata
was pleased that her nephew was now a
'great painter"  and a gentleman. A
distant cousin kept the shop and lived with
them, and, as he was completely under
Fortunata's thumb, she now ruled the
household.

Plessis was a rising man, for Signer
Minuti's introduction had made him known,
and his own talents had won him appreciation.
He was considered a genius, and more
than a mere gentleman. The doors of the
noblest houses in Florence were thrown
open to him, and he never caused his
patrons to regret their friendliness. He
was a perfect gentleman, they said, and his
voice and poetic mode of speech were most
charming. He touched many ladies' hands
now, and many smiled upon him ; and yet, so
modest was he, and so true, that his queen
seemed just as far removed from him as ever.

He heard Ina's letters to Signor Minuti,
and though she never mentioned him, he
knew that his old friend ever wrote to

her in bis praise, and often sent newspapers
telling of his pictures. After hearing these
letters of Ina's, he worked with renewed
spirit and vigour. He was now engaged
on a large historical painting, and Signor
Minuti was touching up a portrait and
gossiping blithely the while.

'* So Columba has a little boy, and you are
the godfather, and it is called after you ? "

*' Oh, yes ! and it is truly a fine child."

A curious people are your Contadini.
Now, when I was up at San Marcello this
summer, I noticed come curious facts."

'' But you say this to me, am I not a
Contains ? "

Che ! You never were one  why, you
were educated mostly in Venice, and now
you are a gentleman."

You really think so? Am I equal to
any other gentleman ? "

'' Better, in the essentials, and quite equal
in outward polish. But, to continue  one
day I went to a mountain Festa, and was
entertained by the priest of the place on
wine, biscuits, and bon-bons ; and I was
introduced to all the curates of the mountains.
One little man, who had truly need

VOL. II. n

of a bath, looked so odd, and spoke so well,
that I asked for information about him.
Our host replied, ' He is the most learned
man on the mountains; but he has one
defect.' ' Per banco ! what defect ? ' said I.
Well, he is out of his mind. Did you not
notice that he refused to touch the wine
and biscuits ? He sees poison in everything,
and is in dread of his life.' It never
occurred to any one that the poor devil
should be put in safe keeping and touched
joe force. Is not that anecdote curious,
Plessis mio ? "

Yes," he returned, absently ; but then,
rousing himself, he added, " other people
are curious, too, certainly that American
was ; I mean the one who came to-day and
asked you  'is the Dizzy-ole worth going
to ? '  he meant Fiesole, but you did not
understand him for a long time."

That was merely a mis-pronunciation,
and not a national quaintness. Do not think
that I am abusing the Contadini  far from
it ; I delight in their freshness and vivacity.
And I know of other lovers as true as your
Bertoldo. When I was at San Marcello, a
case of that kind was brought under my

notice. This is the story. A young girl
had been left in destitution by her father's
death, and her lover, on hearing of the fact,
Wrote to her from Sardinia, begging her to
become his wife, and offering to retmm home
at once if she consented. The answer being
gracious, he did return, and set up house,
provided her outfit, and the marriage came
off in great style. I bought the bride a
present, and they were so grateful that they
invited me to the wedding, and asked leave
to call on me afterwards. But what is the
matter with you, my son ? You are not
listening to me;" and the old painter patted
Plessis affectionately on the shoulder.

'' Nothing, my father 1 " replied Plessis,
smiling.

But Signor Minuti was uneasy, and he
walked round the room fidgeting with the
different things. At length, in a corner, he
discovered a painting with its face to the
wall. Turning it round, he looked at it in
amazed admiration.

It was a beautiful woman, dressed in floating
white drapery, with a silvery white wreath
on her head, a palm branch in one hand and
a laurel wreath in the other, the glow of a
II 2

golden sunset forming a dazzling background,
and seeming to encircle her with a heavenly
glory.

Signor Minuti uttered an exclamation of
wondering delight. Plessis turned, and,
observing him, blushed crimson.

'' It is yours, of course ? Why did you
conceal it from me? Is it a saint or an
angel ? "

Yes, it is mine. I painted it when alone;
I did not leave it here intentionally. I call
it my ideal. The laurel wreath is to be my
crown, and she is to give it. The gold is the
light of love coming from Heaven and glorifying
my ideal."

'your ideal has a mortal form."

Plessis looked confused, but said, bravely,
Yes ! she has a mortal form, and an
immortal soul. Her spirit is more pure and
lovely than anything my imagination could
create. Surely, it is better to have her for
an ideal than any beautiful fancy."

Ah ! Plessis mio, as we say in English,
thou hast gone ' out of the frying-pan into
the fire.' Were you not wiser in loving that
little coquette than this proud lady, whom
you can never hope to win ? Why, she will

not even mention your name. I am quite
out of patience with her."

'' I do not hope to wed her. Surely, it is
as though I loved ' some bright particular
star '  as Shakespeare says 

What power is it which mounts my love so high,
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye 1

X- * * 

What hath been cannot be.' "

Why, ciel ! thou hast learnt English ! "
*' Yes ! It is a most beautiful language,
and I have studied it all this year. I have
already read much of the literature."
'* Ah ! boy, is it not her language ? "
Yes, it is hers ! Ah ! Signore, do not
laugh at me. My love may seem a madness
to you, but it is great, and real, and all-pervading.
My fancy for Columba filled my
mind and blinded me to the world around
her image shut out all else  it was a
delusion, a mirage, an unreal love, without
foundation, built of clouds. My love for my
queen is true, founded on admiration, respect,
and all the noble virtues. Witness the effect
upon me. Instead of blinding me to the
beauties of the world, at last my eyes are

truly opened. I never lived till now ! I
never knew the beauty of the world before.
Everything grows brighter and purer  for
she is associated with all. And, as your
Burns says : 

I see her in the dewy flowers,

I see her sweet and fair :
I hear her in the tuneful' birds,

I hear her charm the air :
There's not a bonnie flower that springs

By fountain, shaw, or green ;
There's not a bonnie bird that sings,

But minds me o' my Jean.'

She is my all-pervading idea, I cannot think
a thought but she is in it. She is a part of
myself  the better part. She inspires me to
noble deeds, to work hard to win the laurel
crown for love of her. Oh 1 Signore, what
a blessing is true love ! "

It has, indeed, proved one to you," said
the painter, warmly  'you have grown
nobler than ever. But I cannot bear to
think that your love will be wasted. Ina
will never care for yon."

'' Love is never wasted."

'' But, surely, you look forward to some
end ? Do you not hope to marry her ? "

'' I have never hoped for such a thing ;
she is too far above me."

Nonsense ! I know grander ladies who
would be glad enough to have you."

'' I care not for her birth or her wealth ;
it is her beautiful spirit that is above mine.
I am but worthy to be her servant."

The old painter was almost irritated by
Plessis's ideal passion. He thought the
young man far too modest ; and that if he
could not have Ina he had better turn his
thoughts elsewhere. But, after all, perhaps
Art gained by this romantic " Aslauga's
knight" sort of worship. A visible ladylove
might have stayed the painter's hand ;
an invisible queen added power to it.

 * Oh, Signore, do not think me mad ! I
am blessed, most blessed to have known her,
to have loved her. I can live content, work
content, with the thought of her in my
heart. And I know if we never meet again
in life that we shall meet in Paradise  and
there her heart will understand mine, at
last."

I ATTEMPT Tom LOVe's SICKNESS TO Fly'*

WHEN Plessis had spoken thus to Signer
Minuti, he but told him what he really-felt.
But, as time went on, things began
to wear a different aspect to him. For
months Signor Minutes last letter to Ina
had remained unanswered. Anxious, hopeless,
hearing nothing of his queen, Plessis
began to pine for the visible presence of his
love. He found that the ideal was not
sufficient  he must see her again at all costs.
He grew pale, and thin, and listless.

The old painter watched Plessis anxiously;
he saw that he must be aroused from this
condition of hopeless melancholy, though
disappointment might await him ; anything
was better than despair. So, one day towards
the middle of March, the old man said
kindly :

"Plessis mio, I think thou neatest a
change. Thou hadst better go to the Villa
Belvedere at Castellamare di Stadia."

Plessis's face brightened. " Oh, Signore,
you are indeed my father ! My heart is
longing to go  I have felt it dying within
me; but I did not like to speak."

Signor Minuti had suggested the last place
from which Ina had written, as he thought
that Plessis might trace her from there.

A few days later, Plessis had started for
Castellamare. Already he felt like another
man. A certain energy and determination
pervaded his every movement.

He went straight through to Castellamare,
spending one night in the train, and arriving
at Rome in the morning. He only stopped a
few hours at the station, and then went on
again.

He was much struck by the aqueducts of
the Appian way, the old rows of arches, and
the curious tombs and columns  they all
seemed to be jostling one another. After
that, he did not take much note of the
scenery until he neared Naples, and there,
the Camposanto, and, above all, the first
peep of Vesuvius, were most interesting.

Vesuvius looked a calm, violet coloured
mountain, with a white cloud resting on its
top. Who could ever have imagined that
hidden fires dwelt within its heart  and
that the light cloud was in reality the smoke
of the treacherous volcano ! At the Naples
station Plessis only stopped a short time,
and then went on again. How delightful
were the fresh sea breezes that blew in from
the gulf, by the side of which the train
passed. The water was a pale grey; for
evening was now approaching. Plessis felt
that he was at last nearing his love, and
that gave him spirit and courage ; and he
delighted in all these new sights and scenes.
He saw evidences of past eruptions in several
villages through which they went ; and all
the stones and rocks showed signs of a
volcanic origin.

At last, he had actually reached the station
of Castellamare di Stadia (so called, after
the old town of Stadia, that was destroyed
first by an earthquake, and then by showers
of ashes from Vesuvius). He stepped into
a very uncomfortable, jolting carozzella,
and was driven to the Villa Belvedere.
Truly, it deserves the name of *' Beautiful

Sight." But that evening it was too dark
for Plessis to observe much. He saw that
Castellamare itself was a dirty, low-lying,
picturesque village. And he went for some
distance along a level road, and then np a
steep hill, to what appeared a castellated
fortress. Old, picturesque, romantic, he was
delighted with his future abode ; and he felt
that this was indeed the place in which he
would like to meet Ina. They would actually
be living in the same house.

On a stone walled terrace that went round
the castle, the carriage stopped, and Plessis
noticed how many curious entrances and
terraces this castle pension had. One of
the English ladies who kept the house met
him most kindly, but said she had only one
small room vacant. It was rather shut out
from the rest of the house ; but Plessis expressed
himself as perfectly satisfied. In
front of his window was a fine view of
Vesuvius, surrounded by those plains on
which are Herculaneum, Pompeii, and the
other doomed villages. The hostess told
Plessis that the pensionnaires were at dinner
in the salle-manger ; so he at once proceeded
there. With a glad heart he

opened the door ; for he hoped to see Ina
again.

The dining-room was an enormous long-shaped
room, with such a length of table
that you could hardly distinguish the people
at one end whilst seated at the other.
Plessis took his place near the head, next to
the principal English mistress of the house.
Her sister was at the foot of the table, and
the French lady partner at one of the sides.
Plessis saw that about fifty persons were
seated at the table, and he knew at once, by
a sort of occult sympathy, that Ina was not
there. His heart felt a cold chill of disappointment,
and he only played with his
food  hardly hearing what the kind Miss B.
was saying to him.

After a time he turned to her, and said,
timidly : 

Have you not a Mrs. Hume staying
here ? ''

The lady thought for a moment  'you
mean a lady called Hume with a handsome
niece. Miss Laurence ? "

*' Yes ; are they here ? "

No ; they were here, but they left two
months ago. I have not their address. Mrs.

Hume lead been ill, and I fancy she went
away for quiet, and that they left no address,
because they did not wish any of the
acquaintances they had made here, to visit
them. My private opinion is, that they are
somewhere in the neighbourhood, although
they have not been seen by any one. But
Mrs. Hume was not equal to a long journey,
I am sure. If they are friends of yours, I
daresay that by a little patient search you
will easily come upon their traces*'

Thank you, Signora."

Poor Plessis ! he felt so dispirited that he
went straight to his room after dinner, and
did not join the others in the drawing-room
all the evening.

Opening his window Plessis looked out at
Vesuvius. There was no longer the innocent
little white cloud over it  it was flaming
away now. He had been told that it was
only a reflection on the smoke ; but Plessis
could hardly credit that.

His troubled mind affected him even in
sleep, causing him to dream bad dreams.
He fancied that he saw Ina on the adore of
the inner cone of Vesuvius, and that she fell
in as he approached her. He followed her

into an abyss of flame, and stretched out
this arms to save her. But the fire came
between, and he felt suffocated. With a cry
of horror, he awoke  and found that the
morning sun was shining in at the window.

He arose and dressed. Opening his door,
he found himself in a little terrace-entry
with an open arched window looking out on
the yard below. The elder Miss B. had a
room opposite his, and a glass door shut
them off from the rest of the house. This
terrace was full of pots of lovely wild ferns,
and the view from it was nearly the same as
from his room. He saw a distant line of
sparkling blue  Mount Vesuvius and Monte
Somma, with their heads covered with soft
white clouds, and the plains bathed in a
misty morning light. It was a beautiful
scene, and Plessis's artist-soul was cheered
and re-invigorated. He began to hope again.

Going up to the first floor, Plessis walked
through the billiard-room into the garden,
which was built in terraces. A lemon-tree
growing in the garden was covered with
yellow lemons ; the gulf sparkled blue and
right, and the prospect before him was
most beautiful. He was now in front of the

house. He walked down the garden and
stood still, admiring the grand Monte San
Angelo range of mountains, which were so
rugged and picturesque. On every side of
the Villa Belvedere there was a different
view, and each view was beautiful and
interesting. Plessis entered the gardener's
house, which was open to all comers, and he
was delighted by its picturesque interior. A
mild-faced cow and pretty calf, the kitchen
apparatus, and baby's cradle,  all grouped
together in one large barn-like room ! And
then, the dark-complexioned gardener and
his  wife, picturesque and handsome, and
their shy gipsies of children, were all alike
interesting to an artist. Plessis thought he
could find plenty of subjects for pictures
here. But, alas ! what would it all be worth
without Ina's presence. He would have
heart for nothing.

After breakfast he set off walking to
Pompeii. He wished to see it, and he had a
faint hope of meeting Ina there. He walked
along a dusty, ill-made road, and saw the
purple San Angelo mountains behind him,
and the brilliant green rice-fields on either
side. At last he reached Pompeii. With

solemn and sad feelings lie entered the ** City
of the Dead."

He first visited the small Muse that contains
casts of the poor bodies, made by
pouring hot plaster of Paris into the moulds
the figures had formed in the warm ashes ;
the bones being arranged inside the casts.
They looked so very real and pitiful, that
Plessis went forth saddened.

As he walked over the city he was
astonished by its size, and perceived that he
could not visit it all in one day. He went
alone, and into many hidden nooks where
tourists never penetrate ; for they generally
proceed only by a certain limited route where
the guides lead them. And then they go
away fancying they have seen the whole of
Pompeii ! In the Via Marina, that leads
straight to the Forum, he admired the
beautiful view of old columns and red walls
standing out against the blue hills, with
green ivy growing over the ruins. In one
house (number 10), he saw a young lady
copying the fresco of Romulus and Remus
being suckled by the wolf. Something in
this girl's figure reminded him of Ina. But
on a nearer approach he perceived his

mistake. There was an older lady with lier,
but she was not the least like Mrs. Hume.
Plessis met these two again, and noticed
that they were walking alone, which was a
most unusual thing in Pompeii, as the
guides generally keep with the tourists on
week-days, vainly trying to prevent them
from chipping the pavements and frescoes
to carry away as spoil. Plessis noticed that
all the guides who passed, these two ladies
touched their hats. And, on questioning
one of the men, he heard that the elder
lady was studying Pompeii to write a book
and give lectures on the subject. He found
the guides very polite and intelligent, though
they considered him sl foreigner. The reason
of this was, on account of the great difference
between the Tuscan and Neapolitan
dialects. However, they told him that they
could understand hin very well, and laughed
good-naturedly with him over the eccentric
language of the English and American
visitors. Plessis tried to keep out of the
way of those tourists who walked the streets
of Pompeii talking and laughing loudly ;
and flourishing their red flags, as he mentally
styled their guide-books. In spite of his

VOL. II. J.

caution, he did meet one vulgar English
couple. The lady walked in front with a
gentlemanly guide who spoke English. She
must have greatly astonished him when she
said : 

'' I have no doubt that all these old things
have hem jpiit here."

And Plessis saw her husband slily walking
along behind, with his pocket-handkerchief
full of stealing.

He then went to the newer excavations,
and watched the men digging. With a sad
and heavy heart, he was walking towards the
place of egress, when he again encountered
the guide who spoke English.

*does not this city remind you of what
Dante says, Signor ? " asked the guide, and
he quoted : 

Per me si va bella cotta dolente,

Per me si va nell' sterno colore,

Per me si va tra perdue gente.

Giustizia moss il mio alto attire :

Pecemi la divine potentate,

La somme sapiens e il primo am.ore

Dinanzi a me non fur come create,

Se non eterne, ed io sterno duro ':

Fascinate agni speranza. voi lie estate."

Yes, thou art right. But, tell me, do
you live here ? "

'' I live here always."
"Is it not very sad, very dull ? "
It might be to one who could not think.
But to one who can appreciate the beauties
of nature, it is a most interesting place.
When I arise in the early morning, I go
forth and see the sunlight gilding these
desolate ruins, and I then think of all the
people who once lived in them  and Pompeii
becomes to me a library of romances.
And then, I sit me down and repeat Tasso
and Petrarch, and I feel around me a
classical atmosphere  and my heart rejoices
in visions of Paradise, where the
souls of those poor unfortunates now rest
in peace."

''Ah! You have much to think of,
friend. I should myself like to stay here
for a time, but I fear it would make rue
too sad."

"Ah, Signore, but we have our comedy as
well ! The tourists that come in thousands
are often so ridiculous, so ignorant, tluit
they make me laugh within myself. But I
am glad that they are not here all the time,
I 2

for they take away all the poetry and
romance."

You say this to me ! Am I not a
tourist also ? '*

'* It may be that you are in name, but you
are quite unlike most of the others."

*' And you must be unlike the other
guides ! "

"I do not know that! Many of us are
well educated; but perhaps I can best
explain my feelings. Do you ever write
poetry ? "

"Yes."

'* Will you not write a poem on Pompeii?"


'' No ! It is too sad, too real ; the signs
of life are too vivid  it is a live ruin to me,
and I could not depict it in poetry. Perhaps
if I saw it with the morning sun touching
it with a light and tender glow, I might
then be inspired ; but, as it is, I cannot write
of it. You should do so yourself, friend."

'' I cannot ! I feel it too much."

Ah ! you are a poet also. Let me press
your hand."

*' Signore, it rejoices me to meet so good a
friend. Do you also speak English ? I learnt
it from a clergyman in Naples, and I have

read many romances. That English young
lady you saw sketching seems to me like
Rowena ;  I told her  ' I have read '' Ivanhoe,"
or, as you call it, Ivan-o ; you might be
Rowena and this dog Fangs.' I had much
discourse with her about poetry, and I sang
her some of the song 'La Bella Napoli.' I had
told the other lady that we would take care
of Meet  and, in fact, we did. She is a most
amiable young lady, and not proud. I shall
never forget her, and shall ever remember
the spot where I saw her sketching."

Divine ! how well you are educated,
friend."

Not so badly  in the summer I go to
teach German in a College."

'' I must leave now. Actio ! "

Arivederla, Signore. I hope to see you
again ! "

'' I will come, if I can."

Plessis left Pompeii impressed by the
guide's intelligence, but by no means as
much surprised as the '' Fair Rowena" must
have been. He was himself a self-made
man, one who had risen by the force of
native talent.

Outside the gate of Pompeii he got into
a rickety little carozzella, and, seating

himself by the driver, entered into conversation
with him. The man proved
loquacious, and Plessis managed to understand
his Neapolitan patois.

He told all his family history, and, mentioning
some of his children who were dead,
said : 

Sono in Paradis !'' (They are in Paradise.)
A beautiful way of mentioning death that is
common to that part of Italy. Plessis, as a
Tuscan, had never heard the dead spoken
of thus, and he was much pleased.

'* See ! Signor ; there are the Monte San
Angelo Mountains. On the top of the San
Angelo Mount there is a chapel to that Saint,
and every year he had his Festa, and his
statue made a miracle, and we got some
good things. But the brigands were so bad
that we could no more have the Festa, so we
carried the statue to the church in Castella-rare,
where it now is. It made a miracle
there once  but now it makes no more.
There are no longer brigands now on the
Monte. I will drive you to the church some
day if you desire it*'

I will think of it. But, tell me, what
was the miracle ? "

'' Oil ! I saw it myself; it was indeed a
true miracle. First the statue was white,
then it became red like that woman's cloak,
then black as my coat ; and, next, it began
to perspire, and water ran down. And then
it became white again as is a pocket-handkerchief."


They had now reached the Pension
Belvedere, so Plessis paid the driver and got
out.

He was glad to visit all these curious and
beautiful things, and even derived a certain
pleasure from the thought that she must
have been there too. But his mind was ill
at ease, and he could enjoy nothing properly.
So he determined to waste no further time
in sight-seeing, but to begin his search in
earnest.

Two weeks passed by, but Plessis had not
as yet come upon a single trace of In a. He
visited all the country-villages and hamlets
round about. And he went to all the islands;
indeed, to every place he could think of.
He gossiped with peasants, followed other
English ladies  but all in vain,  he could
not find his queen.

The boarders staying in the Pension were

all interested in him. They thought his
broken English very pretty, and his Italian
most poetic. But they could hardly ever
induce him to converse. He went about
looking sad and hopeless. Every day he
grew paler and thinner ; and many were the
sympathizing glances cast upon him. A
very good guess at his story had been
arrived at ; for they all knew that he was
looking for a young lady. At last, he
seemed inclined to give up in despair, and
to sit in the garden in melancholy brooding
all day long.

A kind American doctor and his wife, took
a great interest in the young man, and tried
their best to cheer and rouse him. One day
the doctor came to him in the garden.

But, friend, say, have yon been from
Salerno to Amalfi ? There are many
English people residing at Amalfi."

A gleam of hope arose in the sad, dark
eyes.

'' Thank you ! I will go*' Then despair
again came over him  " But it will be of no
use ! "

At least try, friend ; there is never any
harm in trying'*

"You are right, Signore. I quill try  and,
please God, shall have good fortune this
time."

'' I wish it with all my heart ! As you
Italians say, 'burn viaggio ! * "

THE ACCIDENT.

IT was a beautiful sunny April day when
Plessis started for Amalfi. He told
himself that this should be his last attempt
to find Ina  if he failed now, he would
start for Florence on the morrow. He
must not waste his life and energies in
painful and unavailing * hope deferred."
But, in spite of his sadness, his artist-soul
was stirred by the beauty around him.

The blue Mediterranean glistened and
glittered in the sunlight, and all nature
seemed to rejoice. The carriage was now
driving along the beautiful winding road
cut in the cliffs from Salerno to Amalfi 
overhanging the water all the way. Plessis
poked the coachman with his stick, telling
him to stop a few minutes for him to look at

the view  and, standing up in the carriage,
he gazed around.

The distant hills of the mainland stretched
far out into the sea  a pale violet haze,
with a range of snow-capped peaks arising
behind, and looking most beautifully white
against the cloudless sky. The water was
a delicate blue, with lines of a darker shade
at certain distances. White sailed boats
moved slowly across its surface, like birds
brooding on the wave. Two tall yellow
rocks  named the Two Brothers  stood in
the sea; and Salerno lay nestling in a
distant bay. But, the most wonderful
thing in the whole landscape, was the
colour the water took near the shore in the
numerous little coves and bays. It was a
deep sea-green, at once so profound, still,
and brilliant, that no one who has not seen
it, can form any conception of its surpassing
loveliness.

The green, the blue, the yellow, the violet,
and white  all formed a picture of wonderful
harmonies of colour, framed by the golden
sun-light. And Plessis gazed, and gazed
again ; and felt that it was good to be alive.

'' They say that this is the most beautiful

drive in Italy, and, per Banco ! I think they
are right. Our Yiale dei Collii is beautiful ;
but this is more than beautiful  it is
perfect ! "

The other side of the road was overhung
by the tall cliffs which refracted the sun's
rays with intense force. Although it was
April, the heat was already great. Plessis
told the man to drive on, as it was too hot
to remain longer in the sun.

Every now and again, the carriage had
passed through orange and lemon gardens,
the trees laden with golden fruit. But the
green leaves were already shrivelled up, and
the fruit was sheltered and supported by
wooden frames covered with chestnut
boughs. A short curly-haired boy hung on
at the back of the carriage, or ran along by
the side. When he first perceived this boy,
Plessis had been about to send him away by
a vigorous poke from his cane ; but the boy
hastened to inform him that he belonged to
the carriage. And so this original young
footman was permitted to ride behind instate.
His hair was very black, and so were
his eyes ; his face was brown, his mouth
wide and smiling, and his teeth were

white and regular. His feet were bare,
this shirt ragged, and he wore a small red
pointed cap. He was, in fact, a true Neapolitan
peasant-boy of a picturesque type.
He spoke the Neapolitan dialect, which is in
general like the ordinary Italian, with the
ends of the words clipped off. Plessis knew
the secret of the dialect, so he was able to
talk to, and understand, the natives tolerably
well.

The boy chattered volubly, and sometimes
sang. His song was a sort of droning
recitative, more like a funeral dirge than a
popular peasant song." This is the way all
the Neapolitan contadini sing. The higher
orders cultivate music very fairly, and sing
with some spirit. But the singing of the
people has a most unpleasant sound  utterly
unlike that of the Florentines, who often
walk round the town at night serenading
most musically, singing their popular airs to
the accompaniment of a guitar. Many of
them have fine voices, a good ear, and a
great capacity of expression. Not so the
Neapolitans.

Sometimes the young footman slid down
from his perch at the back of the carriage and

walked along the dusty road, amusing himself
by catching lizards in the crevices of the
rocks. Once he got bitten, and afterwards
revenged himself by throwing stones at the
offending creatures.

Plessis lay back in the carriage in silent
content. He thought  '' How I should
enjoy staying here for ever ! It is like the
Garden of Eden. But what would the
Garden of Eden be without an Eve ? " and
he immediately thought of his Eve, and then
grew sad again.

They now passed a house built under a
hollow of the overhanging cliff, the rock
covering it like a roof  it looked frightfully
perilous ; for it seemed as if a severe storm
might bring down the whole mass of stone
and crush the poor little house to atoms.
On it was written *catacombs," and the boy,
Yincenzo, told Plessis that it had been a
convent, and was now for sale. Yincenzo
called a woman who was in the garden, and
made her bring Plessis a monster lemon,
about which there was much bargaining,
and Yincenzo and the woman abused
each other vociferously. Yincenzo was also
very jealous if Plessis spoke to the coachman,

though the two joked each other good-naturedly.


They now came to a small village, consisting
of some four or five houses and a church.
It lay below the road on a level with the sea,
and it seemed as though people must be
truly in great need of building-land to have
chosen such a spot. A small winding path
led down from the road to the beach. They
could not possibly have brought the building
materials by the path  everything must
have been transported there by water. Surrounded
by lemon-gardens and with the
glistening sea in front of them, these
villagers are indeed living in an Arcadian
Paradise ; and can well afford to be cut off
from the rest of the world. Plessis was
so much struck by the picturesque beauty
of this hamlet, that he alighted from the
carriage and scrambled down the wild little
pathway, followed by Yincenzo, whose bare
feet jumped over the stones with surprising
agility.

Plessis visited the little church, inspected
the fishing-boat, and looked at the four
cottages that formed the one street. He
then walked towards the lemon-garden, in

front of which stood a large house, rather
more pretentious-looking than the others.
The front of this house was shaded by an
arbour formed by two gigantic lemon-trees,
whose branches were trained over a frame.
A bench stood under this shade, and the
golden lemons hung down illumined by the
sun's rays flickering through the leaves.

It made a beautiful picture. Plessis stood
still for a few moments and gazed admiringly,
but soon turned away with a sigh. Ina was
not there ! His artist-nature could still take
pleasure in beauty, but all too soon a sad
thought would intrude itself on his mind
and spoil the whole. To him Ina was an idea
embodied in whatever was beautiful, therefore
all beauty reminded him of her. As he
re-ascended the path, he endangered his life
several times by looking back at the lemon-lowered
house, and not attending to his
footsteps. He felt a strange, unaccountable
attraction towards that little building.

When he was again seated in the carriage,
he asked the coachman whether he could
lodge in that hamlet if he wished.

"No, indeed, Signor. All those houses
are full."

There is a beautiful Signorina down
there," said Yincenzo, with a grin.

'' What Signorina ? *' asked Plessis,
eagerly.

The Signorina Inglese ; she lives in the
house with the lemon-gardens. She is
English, I know for certain, because one
understands what she says. One cannot
understand the Americans, you know. They
are quite different to the English. I know
them well, and when one of them speaks to
the coachman I tell him not to talk to her 
she is an American, and non capii.' A little
time ago five ladies drove to Amalfi, and I
rode behind the carriage as usual. Two of
these ladies I could understand, for they
were English  the others were Americans,
and one understood nothing they said. The
young English lady said that one of these
was English also ; but she must have been
mistaken. I know well that they were all
Americans. The young lady seemed to
admire me much, and she asked me to sino*
and to tell her all about myself ! Divine !
but she was interested. I told her that mv
two brothers are sailors, now in America,
and that they can talk English and American,

VOL. II. K

and that they have been to England, America,
and Cardiff."

Plessis had made several movements
expressive of impatience ; and as soon
as Yincenzo was silent he hastened to
say :

'' Does the English young lady always live
down there, and has she been there a longtime
? "

'' It seems to me that she has been there
some months. Do you know that I am
eighteen years old. I am sure that you
would not have guessed it ! That young
lady who drove to Amalfi, and of whom I
spoke just now, said that she was much
astonished I was so old ; for, you know, I
am short, and appear young. Oh, I think
I amused that Signorina well ! When we
reached Amalfi, I defended her from the
begfsrars. And when we returned to Vietri,
before she and her friends entered the other
carriage, to drive home, she gave me some
money, just after having refused a beggar ;
for, she said, he had done nothing  and when
Pietro said, ' Vincenzo has taken care of the
ladies?' she said 'Yes.' Oh! I like the
English. I may, perhaps, visit England myself

some day, after I have served my two
years as a soldier."

Mille Tivoli ! Vincenzo mio, but you
have a long tongue ! " said Plessis, impatiently.
'tell me, ragazetto, do you
know nothing more of the young English
lady who lives down there ? "

Alto ! I know all about her. She
is rich, and beautiful, and good. And
she lives with an old lady, who looks very
ridiculous  such a curious old one  we
call her the matta ! She does not resemble
the old English lady who drove
with my Signorina to Amalfi, that was a
good lady ! She was dressed in black,
and seemed well instructed, and understood
all I said to her. The matta dresses
herself like stentorello. She is a ver
buff a:'

Plessis thought over all that Vincenzo
had told him about the two ladies. The
description seemed to fit both Ina and Mrs.
Hume ; but he had been so often mistaken
that he would not let .himself become too
sanguine. He determined to drive to Amalfi,
and search that place thoroughly first, and
then, if he had not already found them, he
K 2

would visit that little hamlet on his way
home.

They drove on in silence  through scenes
that were pretty much the same all the way
until they reached Amalfi. There the
carriage stopped in the Piazza in front of the
church. It was immediately surrounded by
nearly all the natives of the place, who, old
and young, commenced to beg. Even a tiny
baby, who could neither speak nor walk, yet
understood how to stretch forth its little
hand for alms.

All these peasants were, as a rule, remarkably
plain ; there was a good deal of the
Arab in their type  distinguished by wide
nostrils and thick lips.

Plessis searched the village well, but nota
trace of any two English lady visitors could
he find. And he entered the carriage again
in a very disheartened mood.

The face of Nature had changed now, and
wore a new expression. Instead of glowing
colours and harmonious contrasts, a pale-grey
landscape was what Plessis saw as he
drove homewards. The sky was pale grey,
the water a deeper shade of the same colour,
and dark shadows lay on the cliffs above

and below. It was a calm and peaceful
scene, but, compared to past glories, like
a pencil drawing by the side of a brilliant
oil-painting.

Ah  life is ever thus ! Dead is my hope,
dead is the beauty of the sunlight ! " And
Plessis sighed.

They had proceeded quietly for a while,
when, suddenly, Plessis perceived a cart
dashing madly towards them. The next
moment, all was noise and confusion  and
then he knew nothing further.

When he came to himself, Plessis found
that he was lying bruised and half stunned
upon the ground. The carriage, a battered
and broken wreck, was being pulled towards
Yietri by a pair of frightened horses ; and
the cart that had caused all the mischief was
dashing on towards Amalfi. Near to Plessis,
lay the boy Vincenzo, and a little further on,
he perceived the body of the prostrate coachman.
He tried to rise, but turned giddy
with the attempt. And he was obliged to
seat himself on the ground again. Yincenzo
arose slowly, and felt himself all over,
saying :

Holy Virgin ! then the bones are not

broken ! I am not dead ! Divine ! but I
must go slowly, slowly, lest I should fall in
pieces."

'' Come here, Vincenzo mio ! Thank
Heaven, bambino, that you have received
no ill!" "

''No, Signor, I believe I am not dead
yet," and Vincenzo walked to Plessis's side.
"But you, Signor? Tell me, have you received
any hurt ? "

*' Yes ! I think I have dislocated my ankle.
I cannot walk."

A thousand devils ! this is a bad affair !
I will go to see to Pietro now."

Vincenzo returned from his errand with
abated breath and a pale face.

Oh, Signor ! he is actually dead  the
blood is streaming from him. I have fear
I know not what to do ! "

Run, run, Vincenzo, for help. Via ! lose
no time."

Nothing loth, Vincenzo did run, as fast as
his legs could carry him. He ran as though
the dead man were pursuing him; and, to
his excited fancy, so he was.

As soon as Vincenzo was out of sight,
Plessis began to survey the position of

affairs, and, the more lie did so, the more
unpleasant it seemed to him. He reclined
on a hard, dusty road, without a trace of
human-kind, or a single sign of habitation
as far as he could see. His ankle gave him
acute pain, and he felt bruised, and sick, and
giddy. The sea was grey and dreary, and
dark shadows were gathering around.

But the greatest horror of all, was the
thought of the dead coachman ; for, like a
true Italian, Plessis felt a great repugnance
to the sight of Death. However, he was a
brave and good man, and never let his mere
feelings overrule his sense of duty. He
must see if the man were really dead. He
could not let him bleed to death unaided.
Setting his teeth to keep back any exclamation
of pain, Plessis arose and limped resolutely
to the side of the prostrate man.

Though he knelt down beside him, he was
at first unable to look at him ; for the pain
of walking had made him feel faint. But,
by a strong effort of will, he kept his senses,
and began to examine into the condition of
his fellow sufferer.

The man appeared dead, and a gaping
wound in his head showed that he must have

died almost instantaneously. The open,
glassy eyes, the blood that had flowed from
the wound and lay around, the shattered
form, all made a horrible and ghastly picture.
Plessis had never seen a corpse before, and
he shuddered as he looked at this one. Controlling
his feelings, he felt the man's pulse
and heart ; but soon perceived that all efforts
to restore him to life would be quite unavailing.
The pulse of life, the breath of life,
had gone. It was but inanimate clay that
he touched  cold clay, ice-cold. Plessis
felt that it was impossible to remain in the
vicinity of that terrible dead body  so terrible
because there was no feeling of love or
friendship to conquer physical repugnance.
He pitied the man, but this body was not the
man so full of life and vigour an hour ago, 
this was only a corpse, a terrible unknown
presence.

Plessis arose, but his strength suddenly
deserted him ; and he sank upon the ground
near the coachman's body, and lay there like
one fascinated  gazing with startled eyes
upon the still white face. The shadows
around gathered faster, and perhaps it was
the fault of their flickering gloom that made



Plessis fancy lie saw the dead man move.
So vivid was this fancy, that he again arose
and walked away for a few paces, and then,
with a sudden cry, he fell down, fainting and
unconscious.

THE AWAKENING.

OUT of the valley of the shadow of Death
into the Light  such Light ! Through
the darkest hour to the dawn  a glorious
dawn ! O'er-shadowed by the cloud  at last
to find the silver lining !

Thus, Plessis opened his eyes, and saw

not the face of the terrible corpse, but

that of the woman he loved.

She stood in the light, looking like an
angel, so fair and calm. Plessis gazed on
her wondering ; and thought that he must be
dead. This was surely Heaven. Oh ! what a
glad awakening, so peaceful, so natural, and
yet full of unspeakable bliss. This was
much better than Life ! Thus he mused
dreamily, as he gazed, with half-closed eyes,
upon the face of her he had loved so tenderly.

Suddenly, his dream was shattered, and
he knew that he was not dead. He perceived
the very earthly and eccentric form
of Mrs. Hume, and it showed him that he
still lived. Mrs. Hume, poor woman, did
not enter into his idea of Paradise.

*' I fear, aunt, that he is very much hurt,
and that he will not be able to leave us tonight.
It is a great pity, but I think we
shall be obliged to give him a lodging for
this one night. You know, there is no other
house near where he could be properly
attended to."

** My dear Ina, you talk as though I did
not wish the poor young man to stay here.
I hope I am not so cruel as that ! I think
they were quite right to bring him, for his
sake and for ours. We will nurse him, and
that will be an interest."

' Very well, aunt ; as you wish."

Ina now approached Plessis with the light
in her hand. Bending over him, she recognised
him instantly, and started back. Seeing
his open eyes, a deep blush dyed her
cheeks.

Poor Plessis saw that this recognition
gave her no pleasure, and he sighed deeply.

Alas ! it was too plain ; he was not yet in
Paradise. He spoke with pathetic pride and
disappointment.

'' Send me away at once, Signorina
Laurence ! I would not give you trouble orbe
an incommode to you. I feel myself
very ill  I have fever. I am certain to give
you much trouble ; therefore, send me away,
Signorina, at once, if you please ! ''

Ina's voice trembled, as she answered,
softly :

'' I shall not send you away, but nurse
you instead. I fear you heard what I
said to my aunt; for I did not then know
who you were, and I dreaded that the excitement
of having an injured man here,
might hurt my aunt. If there were no other
reason for keeping you here, the friend of
dear Signor Minuti would always be welcomed
by us. Forgive my seeming inhumanity
! Say you forgive me ! "

She smiled so sweetly as she spoke, that
Plessis could hardly prevent himself from
expressing his love, and telling her  that he
thanked God that he was not dead, since life
had become so beautiful now that he had
found her. But he knew he must not speak

his thoughts; for that would break the spell,
and she might then fly his presence.

Signora, I have nothing to forgive. I
know well, that you have ever a good reason
for what you do and say. You must let me
offer you my thanks for your kindness. I
feel myself most fortunate to be here."

But you would feel yourself more fortunate,
probably, if you were driving along
the road, un-injured. That is natural ;
though being here is better than lying out
on the road."

Plessis was silent ; but he thought that be
would rather be here with every bone in
his body broken  than wandering about in
hopeless search, with a broken heart. If he
had been told that he must die for those few
moments of bliss, he would have died most
gladly  knowing that his longing had at
last been satisfied. Love is an o'er-mastering
passion  and "hope deferred," in
absence, is so terrible that no sacrifice would
seem too great a price to pay for one instant
of hope, love, and certainty.

Is not your aunt here also, Signorina?
It seemed to me that I saw her at the door a
minute ago."

"Yes; she went to prepare a room for
you, wliilsfc I looked at your hurts. But I
have been very inattentive. Tell me, where
are your injuries P "

*' I think that my ankle is dislocated.
And the shock of the fall has shaken my
system. I feel fever in my veins. I have a
friend, an American doctor, Signer Smith,
who is now staying at the Pension Belvedere.
When it is convenient to you, it would be
well to send for him. Do you not think so,
Signorina? "

At this moment Mrs. Hume entered the
room. After looking at Plessis, she said 
Do you know my niece ? Somehow, I
fancy I must have seen you before ! Are
you English?"

*' No, Signora, I am Italian ; but I understand
English. I am Plessis Valencini, and
I was twice in your house in Florence. I
believe you saw me there. I am a friend of
Sign or Giusto Minuti."

Oh, I understand it now ! " and Mrs.
Hume looked very pleased. '' Ina, send at
once to the Pension Belvedere for Doctor
Smith, as this gentleman suggested ! "

'' Certainly, aunt. Here Niccolo, help

this gentleman to the spare room. And
you, Vincenzo, take Cola's mule and ride to
Vietri, and there hire a horse and ride on to
the Villa Belvedere to fetch the Signore
doctor, who is staying there."

Ina's orders were instantly obeyed  and
Plessis next found himself lying in a clean,
soft bed, tenderly waited on by an old Italian
woman called Christine, and also by Mrs.
Hume herself. He soon found out that he
was in that very white house he had so
much admired. And he knew that it was the
instinct of love that had made him feel such
a strange attraction towards it. But, though
glad thoughts flitted through his mind whilst
pain racked his body, he soon lost the
power of considering his sensations  all
became a troubled whirl, and then  a
blessed unconsciousness

Ina had been reluctant to shelter the
wounded stranger, solely on her aunt's
account. She was a woman, and tenderhearted,
so she could never have been
willing to turn a sufferer from her doors.
Mrs. Hume was in very bad health, her
heart being seriously affected, and the least
excitement was dangerous for her. But, as

she had herself expressed a wish to keep
Plessis, Ina could only hope that no harm
would ensue. For her own part, his coming
seemed to her hardly a pleasant coincidence.
It reminded her of past suffering and of
his past presumption. Her one consolation,
lay in the thought, that a sprained ankle was
not a very serious injury, and that he would
leave on the morrow. His visit was a mere
chance, and he would hardly dare to repeat
it, or in any way intrude himself on them.

The next day Doctor Smith arrived, and,
after examining the patient, pronounced it
as his opinion that Plessis had a bad sprain,
and there had been danger of inflammation ;
but that he thought the young man could
bear the drive to Castellamare, and he
would take him away in the carriage with
him.

Ina communicated this intelligence to her
aunt, and was most unpleasantly surprised,
when she found that Mrs. Hume was determined
to invite Plessis to stay with them fora
time.

But, aunt, T thought you wished to
escape the infliction of any society but
mine ? We left the Belvedere on purpose,

and did not even give Miss B. our address."


'' I have found that no society but our
own is dull ;  and I wish for a change."

'' Would you like to return to the
Pension ? "

My dear, there is society, and society ! "

So I think. And this young man is not
fit society for us."

*' Not fit!"

'why, of course not! He is only a
common man."

A common man, indeed ! Are you mad,
child ? He is actually a genius, and Sj famous
man. All my life I have wished to know a
genius ; and now that I have the chance,
you wish to disappoint me. Ah ! you cannot
deceive me  I have heard Signor Minuti's
letters, and read the papers,  and I know he
is an extraordinary young man. But you are
always unkind to me now ! " and the old
lady sobbed querulously.

This accusation against Ina was quite
unjust ; for the poor girl bore all her aunt's
vagaries most patiently. Seeing that she
had set her heart on this thing, and that to
thwart her might make her ill, Ina gave up

VOL. II. L

her own will, and, disagreeable though she
thought it, determined to ask the young
man to stay with them. She hoped that he
would comport himself respectfully, and not
stay too long.

You may be right, aunt, as to his being
a genius. But it was not all pride in me.
You know I do not like any young men
now ! However, as you wish him to stay,
he is welcome to stay. Come with me, and
ask him ! "

Leaning on her niece's arm, poor Mrs.
Hume tottered into the drawing-room.
Plessis was lying on the sofa with his foot
bandaged, and the doctor standing by his
side. His face flushed, and he tried to rise
when he saw the ladies.

Do not get up, Signore ! We have only
come to ask you to stay with us for some
weeks, and then your foot will be quite well
when you leave. The doctor can visit you
here, and it will be much better for you not
to move at present."

"Certainly," said the shrewd doctor ; for
he had been watching Plessis' s face, and
had made a good guess at the truth.

*' Thank you a thousand times, Signora ;

you are too good ! But "  and lie looked at
Ina  " I fear to give too much disturbance."

'' Far from it," said Ina, gravely ; '' your
society will prove a great benefit to my aunt.
She needs a change, and you can tell her of
Florence and Signer Minuti."

'' Thank you ! Then I will stay, at least
for a little while." But Plessis sighed ashe
spoke. She seemed so cold towards him,
and took care that he should understand
that hie was invited for Mrs. Hume's sake
alone. But, for all that, he could not help
staying. To be near her was rapture; to
see her, hear the sound of her voice, was to
him as water to a man dying of thirst on a
burning desert. How he loved her ! He
saw how tender she was to her aunt, and
how gentle to all around her  except to /m?i,
to him alone she was still cold, alas ! Whilst
he had been away from her, his love had been
abstract and elevated; but now, though no
less elevated and ideal, it had also acquired a
strong element of personal preference. He
felt that he wanted her for his own, not
merely to be his queen  but as his loifr.
Humble-minded though he was, it was
natural that the distance between them
L 2

should no longer appear insuperable ; for a
year and six months he had been living as a
gentleman among gentlemen ; ladies had
treated him as a friend and equal ; and he
had even perceived that some of them would
willingly have had this friendship take a
warmer tone. Therefore, it was only his
intense admiration for Ina that made him
still feel that there was a gulf between them.
He knew that he could make her happy 
for no one could love her better. And he
would try to grow more worthy of her.
Poor Plessis ! though he had found his love,
his trouble grew instead of diminishing.
The more ardent his affection became, the
more he longed to win her.

Mrs. Hume treated Plessis as an honoured
guest; and he limped down to meals with
them, and spent his evenings in talking with
Mrs. Hume in the sitting-room. Ina was
cold and quiet, and he rarely addressed her ;
but he often spoke for Iter when apparently
talking to her aunt. And she grew to listen
to him, against her will. Mrs. Hume was
clever in her way, and she drew the young
man out, and was perfectly astonished by
the knowledge he displayed. Ina was more

astonished by the beautiful poetical and
religious thoughts that he clothed in such
eloquent language. And she could not help
owning to herself that there was reason for
the old painter's liking him, and that his
enthusiastic praise had not been undeserved.
She said to her aunt one day : 

I am always forgetting that he is not a
gentleman ! "

*' Why, my dear, he is the most polished
gentleman I ever saw 1 And then, how
clever he is ! I wish you would be more
amiable to him. I wonder he stays with us ;
you are so persistently cold."

'' He stays for your sake, perhaps. You
are kind enough ! "

' I am poor company for a clever young
man like that. But his heart is as tender as
his mind is strong."

'* Well, he may be all you say  only, for
my own part, I shall be very glad when he
goes away ; for I do not wish to have anything
more to do with young men."

So marked had been Ina's want of
cordiality towards Plessis that Mrs. Hume
felt obliged to apologize to him.

*you must forgive my niece if her manners

are sometimes almost impolite. Lie has no
personal dislike to sou."

*' I do not think I have any cause for complaint.
I know that there is an immeasurable
distance between us," he said, bitterly.

I do not see it ! I think you ought to
get on particularly well together ; for, though
you are much cleverer than Ina, she is quite
an intelligent girl."

'' That is not what I meant. But I thank
you for considering me as an equal. I suppose
Miss Laurence dislikes me  I fear that
cannot be remedied."

"No, indeed, she does not dislike you!
Why should she ? The truth is, she cannot
bear the sight of any young man, because
she has had a disappointment."

Ah ! " and Plessis winced. *' Signora,"
he continued, " I happen to know all the
circumstances of the engagement between
your niece and that vagabond of a Conte ;
but I had hoped that she had forgotten him
by this time."

She does not care for him any more,
and she is very cheerful and resigned ;
but he has made her dislike all young
men. She is kind as an angel to me,

but hard as a stone to you. At least,
you will always have the satisfaction of
knowing that you have been a great comfort
to a dying old woman."

** Not dying, Signora ! "

'' Ah, yes ! I feel that I cannot live long."

''Do not say that! Think of the
Signorina ! "

I do think of her, and that makes me
sad. Who will care for her when I am
gone ? "

''Ah! Signora, would that I had the
right to care for you both ! "

Surely, you do not mean that you love
Ina? She who is so cold to you ? "

With all my heart, I love her. I have
loved her for more than a year."

I am very sorry; for she will never care
for you, I fear."

I know that, but I am still glad to love
her. And, indeed, I cannot help it. She is
to me as ray ideal."

Ina continued outwardly cold and distant as
ever ; but she was in reality observant of, and
interested in, Plessis. As the time drew near

when he was to leave them, she felt that she
should miss him  that there would be a blank
in her life. So angry was she with herself on
account of this weakness, that she avoided
Plessis more persistently in consequence.
The poor fellow became quite desperate, and
felt that he could bear such misery no longer.
So he told Mrs. Hume that he must leave ina
day's time, as his ankle was quite well
now. He said this at breakfast  after which
meal the two ladies went up into their
respective rooms to read some letters that
had just arrived from England.

Suddenly, a shrill and piercing scream
broke the stillness. Plessis judged by the
direction of the sound that it came from the
rooms above, and, from the tone, that it was
Ina's voice. He stayed not a moment to
think; but rushed upstairs, ready to give
his life to defend her. But he found that no
defence was needed, or possible, for who can
fight with Death ? Death alone was poor
Ina's foe.

Plessis entered the bedroom, and there,
stretched on the floor, was Mrs. Hume 
quite dead. A letter was clasped in her
rigid hand ; and Ina knelt beside her with a

white, scared face. She turned to Plessis
eagerly.

'' Tell me, is she fainting ? "

He knelt down, felt the heart and pulse,
and examined the body carefully. He then
took it up in his strong arms and laid it
gently on the bed. Turning to a frightened
servant who stood in the doorway, he said 
*' Go as quickly as possible to Castellamare
for Doctor Smith ! "

*' But you do not answer ! " said Ina,
clinging to his arm, and looking piteously
into his face.

*' I fear, Signorina, that she is dead. But
I have sent for the doctor that everything
possible may be done."

She gave a wild cry. " Oh ! dear aunt !
dear aunt ! I have lost you. I am now
quite alone in the world." And she knelt
beside the bed, and kissed the cold hands
and face.

Tears stood in Plessis's eyes  but she
was tearless.

Oh ! what shall I do, where go to find
peace ? Is there no one in the whole world
to help me?" She spoke wildly, hardly
knowing what she said.

'' Signorina, there is always God to comfort
you."

'' He seems so far away." She arose and
stood, pale, agonised, and desperate, beside
him. It would have been better if she had
cried.

Oh, no ! Signorina, He is not far away ! "
and Plessis caught her hands in his own,
anxious that she should feel the touch of
human sympathy  for, so desolate was she,
that even a hand she disliked might now be
welcome. '' Truly, Signorina, my heart
pities you  and how much more must the
good God feel compassion ! Your aunt is a
blessed angel in Heaven  think of her joy 
she suffers no more. And as for you. He
will not leave you desolate. He has taken
away one who loved you ; be sure that He
will give you others to love. Try to be
brave  to have faith."

She looked into his face in wild appeal;
she did not resent his touch ; she seemed to
trust him.

Do you believe  oh ! say, is she really
dead ? Shall I never see her again ? "

I believe both in God and Heaven, and
that, though your ait's body is dead, that

her soul lives truly. Yon will meet again 
for yon loved each other."

"Yes, how she loved me!" And Ina
tottered and fell against Plessis's shoulder,
weeping passionately.

It was better thus. He took her in his
arms and carried her tenderly to her own
room, and, laying her on the bed, stood by
her side watching anxiously. At last he saw
that her tears had ceased, and that her hands
were clasped, and her lips moved slowly.
She was praying. He knew that he could
safely leave her now. But, as he turned to
go, he heard her call him back. She was
looking at him with grateful eyes :

Thank you ! " she said, softly. " Bnt
for yon, I should have gone mad. Yon have
been kinder to me than I deserved."

With the truest delicacy, he attempted no
reply, bnt silently left her.

When the doctor arrived, he said that Mrs.
Hume was dead. She had been long in
an infirm state of health, and some sudden
shock must have caused her death. He removed
the crumpled letter from her hand ;
and, on reading it, discovered in it the cause
of death, as it announced the total loss of

Ina's fortune. The letter had been, most
foolishly, directed to the aunt instead of to
the niece.

Ina bore the tidings of her future poverty
very quietly. But Dr. Smith thought her
so ill, that he sent for his good wife to come
and help him nurse her. That night she
was in a brain fever.

Plessis wrote to Signor Minuti begging
him to come at once. But it was long
before he received any answer to his letter ;
and when it came, it was sent from England,
where the painter was staying, engaged on
important business. He said he would look
after Ina's affairs, but that Plessis must
look after Ina himself. When she was well
enough she must come to him in England,
to live with him as his adopted daughter.

For a long time the poor girl's life trembled
in the balance; but, at length, she began to
recover slowly. Plessis had suffered terribly
all this time ; if possible, he loved her more
than ever. His manly heart yearned over
her with protecting tenderness. And he
thought with rapture of how she had cried
upon his breast.

When he saw her again, she was looking

very pale and fragile ; but her smile was
gentle, and her manner sweet and tender.
All coldness had left her behaviour ; it had
but been a defensive armour she had worn
since her love-disappointment. But now she
had cast it away for ever.

She spoke with great enthusiasm of the
kindness of Dr. and Mrs. Smith, and said
that the latter had become a great friend of
hers. She did not tell him how often the
good lady had sung his praises, and spoken
of his romantic search for her, Ina. After
praising the Smiths, she said :

'rand you, too, have been good to me!
You were also kind to my dear aunt, and
made her so happy at the last. She liked
you very much. I cannot find words to
thank you !"

"Do not try."

'' Ah ! you do not care for thanks or
praise, because you are so good. Do you
know, it was you who have strengthened my
faith twice in the hour of trouble ?"

Plessis's face glowed  '' And you, Signorina,
have strengthened mine. But, you
have yet another friend  Signer Minuti."

'* Yes ! dear old man ! I mean to go to

him in England, and stay with him for a
short time. But, as all my money is lost, I
shall eventually become a governess."

'rob, Signorina!"

< Work will do me good. Why, you work
yourself. Only, of course, your profession
is of a higher order."

'but there is a difference between you
and me ! "

Yes. I am not half so good or clever,"
she replied, humbly.

How he longed to take her in his arms,
and tell her that she was his ideal, his queen,
his all ! Poor Plessis's own heart alone
knew how hard was the temptation. But
he resisted the mad impulse.

Soon after this, Plessis and Ina were seated
together in the train, speeding towards Florence.
She was to stay there a day or two
to rest. Plessis had written to Columba,
asking her to receive Ina. The answer had
been a warm invitation from both Columba
and Bertoldo, who said they had ever remembered
the Signorina Inglese and Plessis
in their prayers.

Plessis suppressed the latter name, when

lie read aloud the letter ; for he thought Iii
miofht not like the connection it seemed to
imply.

How tender and considerate he was
towards her, Ina alone knew. And it would
need a woman to fully appreciate the delicacy
of all the small attentions that he
paid her, and the care for her comfort that
he showed.

He was a thoroughly unselfish man, and,
therefore, never obtruded himself upon her.
His heart was full of a proud joy  '' he teas
able to serve his queen "What more could
he desire ! He had given up the vain hope
of ever winning her love ; but he would bea
faithful squire, and might yet win her
regard.

What Ina's thoughts were Plessis knew
not. She had long observed and taken
note of his character, and she continued todo
this still. Surely, she would have been
blind indeed had she failed to perceive what
a truly noble-minded man he was ; and that
in him she might well find the fulfilment of
her highest ideal. She was very gentle and
grateful, but rather shy and reserved in her
manners towards him.

At last they arrived at Fiesole, and Plessis
left Ina in Columba's safe-keeping.

As he walked into the town to his mother's
house, he said to himself: ''Ah! I am
blessed ; I have seen her, and I have helped
her. I have won her gratitude and esteem.
Now I must work on alone, and strive to do
my duty. Perhaps in Heaven she will know
me, and lay her angel hand in mine, and
then my heart will cease to ache  and she
will understand how faithfully I have loved
her. Ah ! my beautiful one, my light, my
guide, mayst thou be blessed ! For me, I am
most blessed among men  because I have
loved thee.

ALESSIO's FAMILY.

WHEN Plessis readied this home, it was
late in the evening.

The family were all seated together in the
small parlour. Plessis had opened the house
door with his own key, and, walking quietly
to the room, he stood outside peeping through
the half-open door. He smiled to himself at
what he saw and heard.

La Fortunata was holding forth to a
good-natured fat woman, who had a mountain
of frizzettes and false plaits on the
top of her head  such a coiffure as delights
the more vulgar Italian taste. This woman
was knitting, as was la Sunta. A little
brow-beaten-looking man sat at some distance
from them, furtively pulling a thin
moustache ; he was their cousin.

VOL. n. M

I tell thee, oli, wife ! that he is a great
gentleman now. Yes, truly ! " said Fortunate.


The wife (as they always style a married
woman) felt slightly piqued by this excessive
praise of some one else's relation, so she
said hastily :

'' Oh ! one knows well, Sora Fortunate,
that ' to every bird its own nest is beautiful'
But, porch di Banco ! to me it appears
better to be head of Heard than tail of
lion.' And thou knowest ' a golden hammer
will not break the gates of Paradise.' "

"Arch-priest! what affair is this! You
are quite an idiot. My Plessis is a great
painter, not a little one. And, as for your
husband !  lie is rather the tail of the lizard ;
for he is not even a good carpenter."

If thou wilt continue to insult me, Sora
Fortunata, I go ! "

Che ! Seat thyself; take not offence !
There is ' no gravy '* in quarrelling ! "

'' Oh ! I had no wish to quarrel, only
thou wert so high-headed ; ' every one knows
how to dance when fortune plays.' But, tell

**Noii che susro."

me, Sora Sunta, if your Signer Figlio is a
great gentleman, why does lie not marry? "

'' Marry! "screamed La Fortunata  '' keep
us from it ! Why should every one tattle of
matrimony ? I will not say that our Plessis
could not marry if he desired ; for there are
many great ladies in love with him. But it
rejoices me to say, that he has too much
judgment to marry in haste, for ' those who
marry quickly repent slowly. ' "

'' ' Better a chaffinch in hand than a thrush
in the bush,' " replied the sposa, sagely.

Plessis thought that he would rather not
play the part of eaves-dropper any longer,
and he also wished to embrace his mother ;
so he walked down the passage softly  and
then, returning more noisily, entered the
room. Every one rose, and nearly everyone
screamed or squeaked ; for he was not
expected. La Sunta arose, and, flinging
herself into his arms, wept glad tears upon
his breast.

'' Oh, my son, my son ! How it rejoices
my heart again to see thee ! Long has
seemed the time that thou hast been parted
from thy mother. Plessis, light of my eyes,
joy of my heart ! "

M 2

''Ah, mother, I also rejoice, again to
behold thee. I have been sick and weary,
and there was no one to comfort me. Ah !
how I longed to lay my head on thy breast,
and know that thou wert there to console
thy poor Plessis."

Console ! Mamma mia ! It is little consolation
that thou shouldst need, Signor Nipote !
Is not being a grand painter sufficient for
thee ? And then, to travel at thy ease and
see Rome, and the Pope, and Vesuvius 
arch-priest ! but thou art an extraordinary
young man ! ' '

Plessis smiled, as he saluted his aunt.
You know, aunt, there is no sweet without
the bitter, and, ' who is content, gains ! '
I do not pretend to be a saint, and have my
days of ill-temper like others."

No ! my son, I cannot believe that !
Thou hadst never an ill-temper."

Plessis smiled tenderly upon his mother,
and they sat down side-beside, holding each
other's hands. He knew his mother was
only a half-educated woman ; but he was not
the least ashamed of her for that. Nor would
he have changed her for any mother in the
world. She was a perfectly unselfish and

pure-minded woman ; and her son loved,
admired, and respected her. He thought
that he should never have a wife to brighten
his lot, therefore he must treasure his dear
mother all the more. lie would return to
live with her ; for what good had his grander
surroundings done him ? As he thought
this, Sunta was looking at him with tender,
questioning eyes. She did not feel at ease
regarding his health and happiness. She
sighed as she stroked his hand.

The visitor arose ; she had been inspecting
Plessis curiously, and was now satisfied that
she could gather no further information
regarding his appearance ; and, for the
rest  propriety now demanded her departure.


*' A very happy night to thee, Sora Sunta,
and good repose to thee also, Sora Fortunata.
How are you, Signor Yalencini? A very
happy night to you ; also to you, Signor
Poldo." And the sposa swept from the
room.

Fortunata began preparing the supper ;
and Plessis sat down and asked his cousin
Poldo various questions relating to the business
of the shop. When the table was laid

the J sat down together and began to eat
their supper.

Poldo was a timid little man, and he stood
in great awe of la Fortunata ; but sometimes
lie did, and said, very bold things from
very excess of fear. He now ate a great deal
of maccaroni very fast, and, with a piece still
hanofino: from his mouth, said :

And hast thou never thought of matrimony,
cousin ? It is a good thing ! "

'' Accursed toad ! " shrieked Fortunata,
with such vehemence that poor little Poldo
nearly choked himself, and Plessis could not
restrain his laughter.

''Oh! you may laugh, nephew! It is a
serious affair, matrimony. A ' good thing,'
indeed ! Ke had better not try it."

'' But, aunt, it appears to me, that cousin
Poldo has no desire to marry. And, surely,
if he had, it would not be a bad thing.
Because one marriage proves unfortunate,
so do not all  ' the frock does not make
the friar.' "

'' Oh ! thou ungrateful one ! Men are a
great trouble  we poor women were born
to suffer!"

'' The proverb says, ' Look at thyself and

then think of me.' Didst thou never contemplate
matrimony thyself, aunt ? "

I / I thank you, Signor Nipote ; it seems
to me that I must tell you that I have ' all
the months of the year.' I have no faith
in men ; they are of no value ! Why, on
this very day, I met Agnes Biagi, and she
was saying  ' Oh ! that I could kill first my
husband and then my mother-in-law ! ' Think
of the shame of a woman saying that ! I
said to her, ' You were a fool, Agnes, to
marry a husband '  and she replied, * I see it
well, now that it is too late ! ' And when
those two married, all said * They are two
souls in one nut ! ' But thus it is ever, with
the men-folk ; women cannot keep themselves
too far from them ; for, ' give them a
finger, and they take the whole hand.' "

"But, aunt, it is not very polite to say
this to me ! I am a man."

It is the worse for you."

Plessis could not but perceive that
grapes were sour." His aunt was growing
more bitter in her feelings towards the other
sex; possibly because she perceived that her
faded charms no longer attracted them.
Her dislike to the mere mention of the idea

of matrimony was evidently occasioned by
the fear of Poldo's taking a wife ; in which
case he might no longer prove so amenable
to her rule. Poldo was not related to
Fortunata, he being a distant cousin of
Sunta's, and not of her brother, the dead
Valencini. Plessis could not help thinking
that it would be a very good thing if these
two made a match of it ; but he knew that
Poldo would, in that case, become an object
for pity. However, if la Fortunata had
made up her mind to have him, Poldo
would never have the courage to resist.
But she did not appear to admire him,
and spoke of his want of spirit with contempt
 although she certainly found his
meekness very convenient. She said of
herself, that, if ever she married, she would
have a lively man full of spirit. And she
sighed in secret over the thought, of a few
worn old letters lying in her drawer. They
began  " Gentile Daniell," and ended
with " vostro gentile amante." The writer
of those letters had been spirited, but false ;
and la Fortunata had never had a lover since
she had lost him, when she was only sixteen.
It was well for her, that she had not married

a lively husband with a tongue and temper
of his own ; for in that case her household
might have proved a little too lively.

What have you done all this time,
Plessis ? Did you go down the Vesuvius?
And did the flames burn ? And did you cook
an egg ? Tell us all about it ! "

'' I had not time to ascend Vesuvius'*

Not time ! Then what did you ? ''

'* I was attending upon English friends
part of the time."

'* Gentlemen ? "

'' No, ladies."

Fortunata looked suspicious, and so
Plessis. hastened to change the subject, by
presenting his mother and aunt with some
handsome silk scarves, that he had bought
for them at Sorrento.

They are very pretty, and I thank thee,
Plessis ! But, tell me ; I hope thou didst
not pay what they asked for them, for,
remember, ' do not put a razor in the hands
of a madman,' and, take care of thy money;
for, ' ended the tune, ended the dance' ; or,
'without money man does not sing.' Oh!
there are such rogues in the world, that it is
a great deal of bargaining we must do.

Why, this very day I went to buy a dress,
and the showman was a cunning black-bird ;
but, of course, I only offered him a third of
what he asked, which he refused, and said
it was what it cost him ; so I told him the
dress was faded, and I had seen it cheaper
at another shop. He then said  ' Well, buy
it there ! ' So I walked out of the shop 
and, lo ! he ran after me, and offered it to me
for less than before. After much talking, I
bought it for a moderate price, and it was not
faded and far cheaper than the one in that
other shop. What thieves there are in the
world ! But I must say, ' the Devil has
slept once for me ! ' '*

No one answered la Fortunata, and, as
supper was finished, Plessis arose.

'' Plessis, my son, I hope thou wilt remain
with us":

'* I will sleep here to-night, mother ; but
I must return to Fiesole tomorrow ; for I
am making a short visit to Bertoldo and
Columba."

La Fortunata looked at him contemptuously.
Why hast thou a wish to visit Bertoldo and
Columba? They are not fit company for
thee. ' Who goes with the lame one learns

to limp ;' and, ' better alone than ill-accompanied.'
"

'' They are not exactly friends of mine,
aunt ; but they are good people, and wish
me well."

Oh, Bene ! It is not for me to speak ; to
try to command thee would be ' to bark at
the moon.' A very happy night, nephew ! "

As Plessis and his mother went together
to the young man's room ; they heard poor
Fortunata still grumbling to herself in the
distance.

The good Sunta bustled about the bedroom,
putting everything in order ; she then
turned to her son, and, placing her arm around
him, looked affectionately into his face.

*' My son, I see it ! Thou art not happy."

'' Mother, I am not happy."

'' I knew it, my Plessis. Tell me, is it
that thou lowest ? "

*'Ah, yes!"

But thou art noble, and clever, and a
gentleman ; there can be no woman who
could resist thee ! "

Plessis smiled sadly. " Ah ! mother mine,
all women think not as thou thickest. The
one I love is far too good for me I"

"I cannot believe it! If she were the
Queen herself, I should say that thou hadst
better love a servant-girl ; for  ' too dear is
that honey that one licks from thorns ! ' "

'' My thought is different from thine,
mother. It seems to me, that it is better to
love a star than a fire-fly ;  the one you can
catch and hold in your hand, but its light
soon goes out; but the star shines on
bright and steadfast  unapproachable  but
lighting our path, filling our souls with light,
and leading us to Paradise. My life may be
sad in this world, mother ; but it makes my
heart glad and proud that I am able to say,
I have loved a queen among women.' "

The poor fellow's voice trembled, for his
mother was crying on his breast.

Oh, my Plessis ! my poor son ! Is it
for this that thou hast become rich and
famous ! That thy heart should be broken
for the love of a woman ! "

Dearest mother, grieve not for me ; my
heart is not breaking ; I am weary, I am sad ;
but I shall not die for love ! I hope that I
am too strong to be such a weak fool. And
then, mother, I am blest in having thee."

'dearest! But say  " and she looked

up hopefully ; '* art sure that she loves thee
not  that thou canst not win her ? "

'* I am sure that she is not for me ; so
great a rapture will never be mine ! "

'' Have you asked her ? "

'' I have won her respect, mother ; I
would not lose it'*

Ah! my son, thou wert ever so romantic,
thou art a true poet ! And if the lady will
not have thee, she is most foolish ; but if thou
art mistaken, then I pity her, because she is
loved by so modest a man, that he even fears
to make her the happiest woman in the
world."

Mother ! thou dost not know her ! I
should like well that thou shouldst see
her ; but I fear it will never be in this
world. We must suffer here, but we have
the joy of thinking of the world beyond 
of an eternity of peace and love. A most
happy night, dear mother ; I pray the good
God to bless thee ! Believe me, thou hast
comforted me. Kiss me again ! Actio."

NOT BUILT OF CLOUDS.

THE day after Ina's arrival at Fiesole, she
said to Plessis that she should like to
revisit her old house, before she left for
England. She was not strong enough to go
alone, and Plessis knew that Columba would
not be a congenial companion for the sensitive
young lady.

Willing to gratify her every wish, though
always feeling that there was an immeasurable
distance between them, Plessis hardly
knew how to act. He never forced himself
upon her, but rather avoided her than otherwise
; for, now that she was poor and dependent,
she must be treated with more
respect than ever. But when he could
benefit her, Plessis always forgot his timidity,
for the reason that he utterly forgot himself.

So, he now offered to take her to Florence,
and said, that they could drive down in
Bertoldo's trap at four o'clock, and return
on foot before sunset. Tna gratefully accepted
his offer ; for there was no longer any
false pride in her heart; and, had there
been, Plessis's manners could never have
grated on her sense of refinement.

Columba said, " Burn viaggio ! " and Ber-told
drove them into the town. They
went to the old house at once  and a small
douceur obtained for them admission, from
the old woman left in charge. Plessis sat
down in one of the lower rooms, whilst Ina
wandered alone over the house. He waited
patiently, though she was gone for sometime.
He could understand her feelings,
for they were kindred spirits. Though born
in such different spheres of life, they were
truly equals ; and, if a shade of superiority
did exist, it was on the man's side ; for his
was the more creative genius,  hers more
contemplative.

At last, Ina came back to him  and, from
the traces of recent emotion on her countenance,
Plessis knew how sad that visit had
been to her. She was unable to speak.

and he did not address her  merely slipping
a rose from the garden into her hand  for
which he received a silent look of thanks.
It was growing towards evening when they
stepped into the street.

They had reached the Viale Principe
Amadeo, when they were suddenly stopped
by a gentleman standing right in their way
on the pavement. Ina looked at him, and
then uttered a low cry, and she unconsciously
clasped Plessis's arm. He drew her hand
through it, and, turning haughtily to the
gentleman, said, firmly :

** You stop our way, sir ! Move on ! "

The man did not move an inch, but stared
at Ina as though he wished to learn her
features by heart. She looked at him
steadily, calmly, contemptuously.

Yes ! it was Carlo himself, but how
changed ! Shrunken, bald, hollow-eyed,
with an uncertain gait, and blood-shot eyes ;
not intoxicated, but decidedly the worse for
drink,  he was the picture of a fallen man 
of the deplorable results of dissipation. If
Ina had had any lingering regard for him
(which she most certainly had not), it would
now have fled. She might pity him, but it

would be with that pity wliicli is akin to
contempt, not to love. She shuddered as
she thought of what her fate might have
been, Hnked to such a man.

She turned hastily from him to Plessis,
whose fine manly countenance expressed the
tenderest sympathy for her. Yes ! she
could not help clinging to that strong arm,
with a comforting sense of trust and reliance.
She knew that, come what might,
he would be ever ready to help and protect
her.

'tina! Miss Laurence! Will you not
speak to me ? I have heard nothing of you
all this time, and I have been so anxious.
You look pale ; have you been ill ? "

"Canaccia!" muttered Plessis under his
breath. But, turning to Ina, he said, somewhat
stiffly  '' Do you wish to speak to this
Signore, or to proceed ? "

*' Oh ! go on, please."

And, without one look or word, she turned
from her old lover ; who was so much astonished,
and felt so crestfallen that he hardly
knew what had happened, when he felt a
strong arm push him aside, and then, saw his
former betrothed passing down the street on

VOL. II. N

the arm of that '* low jeweller'* He cursed
them both, and his luck, too, as he slunk
away. There was now no chance of Ina's
guineas repairing his shattered fortunes.
The life of a gambler was the only career
open to him in the future. No other heiress
would be likely to fall in love with him, now
that his manly beauty was lost.

And Plessis 1 how his heart swelled with
joy and pride, as he walked off with Ina
clinging to him. He had feared that Ina
still regretted her old lover ; but he now saw
how little his appearance affected her. She
had been evidently much disgusted by the
appearance of the ruined rake. But he
wisely forbore to speak; for he knew that
she must have been, to a certain extent,
overcome by this revival of old memories.

When they reached the Piazza Cavour,
near the Porta San Gallo, they perceived a
great crowd and commotion. A runaway
horse was tearing wildly towards them, with
its pale-faced rider clinging to its back.
Quick as thought, Plessis placed Ina on the
path, and, with a hurried pressure of her
hand and a look that revealed all his secret
feelings, he dashed into the road. When

the horse came near him, he seized it by the
bridle, resolutely stopping it, and using his
great strength to curb the maddened brute.
It struck out at him, kicked, and tried to
bite. But, at last, perceiving it had met its
master, it gave up all resistance, and stood
perfectly still, hanging its head and quivering
all over  the picture of a cowed and
beaten creature. Plessis then gave it in
charge to some men, and turned to the
dismounted rider, who was thanking him
warmly. The crowd set up a shout, and
many people insisted on shaking hands with
him. When able to free himself from these
too-friendly persons, he again rejoined In a,
and noticed that she had turned very pale.

*' Were you very much frightened?" he
asked, anxiously.

Yes ! " she answered,

'' Are you well enough to walk ? Do you
wish that I should take a fly ?"

'' No, thank you ; I prefer to walk."

They proceeded in silence for some time,
and then Plessis began to speak of Columba.
Plessis talked Italian to Ina, as she knew
the language thoroughly, and used all the
Italian idioms.

xr 9

' I think she is happy," he said. ' She
and Bertoldo are contented in their way 
they are well-matched, too, neither being the
intellectual superior of the other. At first,
Columba said she wished that she had married
a richer man ; but now that Bertoldo is so
prosperous she can delight her heart with
jewels and fine clothes. She is also fond of
her baby, and has at last become sufficiently
serious for a wife. And, if she is sometimes
a little too foolish, and Bertoldo rather too
passionate, and if he beats her a little  that
matters not ! They are fond of each other
all the same. Their feelings are not refined.
They are a pair ; ' two souls in one nut.' I
am sure I can never thank Columba enough,
for showing me what a silly little flirt she
was ; for, had she not done so, I might have
married her, and found it out afterwards
when it was too late. We are now good
friends ; far better than we should have
been if we had married. For, you can well
understand, Signorina, that Columba would
have been no companion for me. I "

Ina had left Plessis's arm, and he now
put out his hand to help her as she suddenly
stumbled. He drew it back with a suppressed

exclamation, and stood still, looking
very pale and troubled. They had reached
the top of the hill that leads to San domenico
; at this point there is a stone bench,
backed by cypress-trees, and a little further
on this footpath joins the new carriage-road.

'what is the matter?" asked Ina
anxiously.

'nothing to alarm you, Signorina. I
have only hurt my wrist, and it makes me
feel rather faint."

Ina crossed to the other side of Plessis
and drew his uninjured hand through her
arm. Her touch acted as a restorative, and
he walked with her to the stone bench, where
they seated themselves.

But Ina arose quickly, and, leaving Plessis
there, went through a gap in the hedge into
a neighbouring field, and walked on until
she came to a little stream, in which she
soaked her pocket-handkerchief. Returning
to Plessis, she bound the handkerchief round
his wrist. He had revived, and the colour
was returned to his cheeks and lips.

"What hast thou, Signer Plessis?" said
Ina, tremulously.

Thank you a thousand times, Signorina,

for your goodness ! Be not alarmed for me ;
I have but sprained my wrist  and the water
lias done me good already. It was the
sudden movement that caused me to feel
faint. I was so stupid as to forget my
sprain. It is nothing ! Think no more of
it, Signorina. Had I broken even my arm,
your kindness would have made the pain a
pleasure to me ! " he added in a passionately
tender tone. Then, fearing he had offended
her, he said lightly : "I did not know that I
possessed such delicate nerves. It appears
to me, that I am becoming a child again ! '*

Ah, no ! Signor Plessis, your nerves are
not delicate. They are as strong as your
courage. I am certain that you have sprained
your wrist badly; you must have done it
when you stopped the horse. I fear it maybe
more than a sprain ; and that you have
dislocated your wrist ! Oh ! why did you
walk back with me ! You should have gone
to a doctor at once. It was very wrong, very

noble,  very why did you not tell me of

it? I I "

*' I did not tell you, Signorina mia, because
I wished to have the pleasure of walking
home with you. And, as for the doctor !

It seems to me to be time enough to think of
one, when I have nothing more to do for

you."

Ina turned away ; and so Plessis could not
see the tears that glistened in her eyes  still
less could he read the feelings of proud joy
and of yearning tenderness that filled her
heart, as she thought " this brave man loves
me," and knew that he counted pain as
nothing when borne in her service. He was
a true gentleman, a true Christian ; and, ah !
what a lover to possess !

It was very brave of you to stop that
horse."

'' It was only my duty."

'' Then it was brave of you to do your duty.
Every one has not the courage to do his
duty."

I thank Heaven that so much courage
is given to me ; without it I should be less
than a man. Ah ! Signorina, you see well
that it is for this, that we men have strong
nerves and muscles. It is the poor ladies
who have to suffer most in this world.
Tell me, were you frightened ? Did you
think the horse would kick you ? I saw
that your cheeks were pale. But, surely,

you knew that I would let nothing harm
you!"

Ina blushed crimson, as she replied, in a
low voice  '' Signor Plessis, is it possible,
that you really think so badly of me ! You
might have known that my fears were for
your safety alone."

A glad light shone in his eyes, as he said,
gently :

*' Thank you, Signorina ; I am glad
that you consider me as your friend  that
you care for me a little  that you would
have been sorry if I had been killed."

You are the best friend I have in the
world. And you must not say that I should
be only ' .sorry ' if you were killed." And
there was a sound of tears in Ina's voice as
she spoke.

Plessis' s heart beat madly with hope ; but
he told himself that she Vvas only grateful,
and that she spoke so frankly just because
she did not consider him as an equal. He
thought " Poor Ina! my beautiful queen!
Yes, she is indeed lonely ; and I am her only
friend, in Italy at least ; for Signor Minuti
is far away in England. How I long to tell
her my love ; to convince her that she was

made for me and I for her ; that we are both
sad and lonely apart. Oh ! what rapture
we might feel if united for ever. But she
loves me not  she may never understand me
on earth. Yet she trusts me, and that is
much. I cannot win her, I must say actio ! "

Yes, Signorina, I am your best friend ;
for no one on earth can long to serve you,
more than I do. Call me your true knight,
your servant, one who will be faithful to you
even unto death. I will write poems of you,
as the Troubadours of old, wrote of their fair
queens, and, perhaps, when you are far away ;
my songs may reach you, and you will think
of me with kindness as you read them.
And then you will say to yourself  ' I am
glad that he has become a poet for love of
me ! ' and I  I shall rejoice if you ever think
of me ; for I live but to love what I can
never win."

Ina blushed again ; bit a glad light shone
in her eyes, as she turned them timidly upon
his sad face. Her hand stole silently into
his, as she said softly :

'* Oh, my friend, that will not be my
thought  I shall think  I shall think  Ah !
Plessis mio ! I love thee''

The last words were said so softly, that he
could hardly catch them, and she hid her
blushing face in her hands as soon as they
were spoken.

To Plessis, all the world seemed suddenly
filled with light. Love illumined the whole
universe. For a moment he was too happy
to think ; but when he did think, he doubted
the evidence of his own ears, and longed to
listen again to that tender avowal.

*' Signorina Ina," he said, in passionate
pleading, "forgive me if I am mad !  but
tell me if you said you loved me ? For me,
I love you better than life itself. Love
breaks my heart  fills my soul with light 
and is a rapture and an agony. And yet,
mine is not mere passion  it is love, tender
and true. I long to make you happy ; to be
your husband, strong to protect you, true
to cherish you. I feel that you were made
to be my queen, and that I can love you as
you deserve to be loved. If I am unworthy
love shall raise, ennoble me. Ah ! Bella, I
would have been silent been silent until
death stilled my pain, had not those blessed
words of yours filled me with a wild hope.
I owe all that is good in me to you  you

inspire me to paint, to write. Say, Signorina
Ina, can you repeat those words ? Will you
accept my faithful heart ? Wilt be my wife
and queen r '*

He drew down one of her hands, and
looked into her face with tender and earnest
appeal. Her eyes fell, but not before he had
read his answer.

She said but three words, more softly
than before  they were only a repetition :

'shove thee''

He clasped her in his arms, and she lay
nestling on his breast, crying glad tears of
sweet delight.

'' Ina, my beloved, thou art mine at
last ! "

'' Thine for ever, Plessis. Thou tallest
me thy queen  I say that thou art my Iniuj.
There is no one in the world so good as thou
art, and I could not help loving thee, my
own. I am all unworthy of thee  not good
enough to deserve thy love."

I should say the same to thee, Care, so
we will not speak of that more. To me,
thou art a queen, and I am to be thy king ;
let it remain so  and thus, we both are blest.
My religion is now the same as thine, for I

have become a Protestant. But thou wilt
dislike my relations, Ina mia, perhaps ; for
they are not like thee ? " he added, half
doubtfully.

'* Thy people shall be mine, beloved. That
love were little worth that could not love
what thou lowest ; that wife but half a wife
who could not become a daughter to the
mother who loves thee!

"I thank God for thee, Ina bella ! " he
replied, tenderly, as he pressed his lips to
hers.
>- Her head rested on his shoulder, and his

arm was clasped around her. They sat in
silence. Both were perfectly happy  too
glad for speech  and yet, with hearts in such
perfect unison, that they were unaware of
external silence, and felt as though they
spoke. The language of true love rises
above the power of mere words.

Both in their hearts were giving silent
thanks to Heaven for the blessing of their
perfect love.

The sky was a pale olive-green, streaked
with gold, and merging into deeper blue.
The distant hills were a soft lilac  the
dark cypress trees stood out clearly, tall and

stately, against the evening sky. The
muffled sound of bells was borne on the
quiet air  and all tidings seemed peaceful
and at rest. Still, the lovers sat there
silent. At last they arose  and walked on,
hand in hand, united in their perfect love
for ever.

FINIS.

WYMAN AND SONS, Printers, GREAT Queen street, LONDON, W.C.

i  .-

s-:

'. .

'  ",>.

Jm'

' "V'V't'M'---(% -  '

f'.

c >
