CHAPTER I.

IX THE Morning.

It was a foolish thing to do ; but when was
happy youth aught but foolish ? And he was
so happy ! so happy ! He could not find fitting
vent for his joy, nor adequate expression by
which to inform the world at large how great
was his divine delight. Waking up to consciousness
in the dawn of that sweet spring
morning  full of blessed certainty and still
more blessed anticipation  seeing neither rock
nor shallow ahead and sure that no storm could
come to wreck his well-freighted bark  young
as the year, bright as the sky, hopeful as the
da', he looked out on the fair English landscape
of fruitful farm and sleeping village, of
fragrant meadow and leafy wood ; and for
want of some one to whom he could say how

VOL. I. I{

good and beautiful she was, and how his
happiness seemed to fill earth and sky with
radiance, he took off his diamond ring  her gift
and scrawled over the pane of the railway
carriage : My Love ! my Love !

What a boyish thing to do ! But it relieved
his mind somehow, and stood as the testimony
of her worth and his passion, like the verses
hung by Orlando on the trees, the name carved
by Corydon on the bark. " My Love ! my
Love ! " Ah, what a sweet Love she was !
Never since the world began  never since Eve
bent over her sleeping lord to awaken him to
life and happiness with a kiss  had there been
such a perfect woman as this ! How true and
faithful she was !  how loving and how pure !
And how sure his happiness in this coming
summer when he was to be made her husband
as he was now her betrothed ! How he loved
her !  and how she loved him !

It was not vanity to say this ; it was only
trust in his word, confidence in her assurance.

My Love ! my Love ! "

What man on all the earth had such a Love
as he, Cyril Ponsonby, in Stella Branscombe ! 
the sweetest name and the sweetest girl to be
found within the four seas. No king on his
throne was so proud as this embryo civil servant

who had passed his examination creditably
and was now waiting for his Indian appointment
; no miser counting his golden gains in
his secret chamber was so rich as this only son
of a ruined house, this young soldier of fortune
whose inherited income was just one hundred
and fifty pounds a year :  with potentialities of
a noble sort in his youth, his strength and his
brains  but for all that, potentialities as yet in
the bud if not in the clouds. He whose future
was all to make would not have changed places
with the most successful man alive ; and the
grandest glory of the historic past faded before
the glowing splendour of his present. He felt
in himself something that was almost beyond
the ordinary circumstance of a man  as if
neither death nor evil fortune could touch him
as if he had conquered fate, distanced sorrow,
and was now standing with the gods on the
sublime heights of infinite bliss :  all because
he loved sweet Stella Branscombe and she loved
him.

'' My Love ! my Love ! Grod bless her ! and
Grod make me worthy of her ! " he said to
himself, while his frank blue eyes grew dark
and tender and his handsome face was touched
with something more than even the deep love
of a happy boy.

And with this prayer, which seemed to carry
both his love and his joy to heaven there to
be strengthened and purified, the train ground
slowly up to Highwood Station and Cyril leaped
lightly out. It was past five o'clock :  about
four hours to wait before a visit to Rose Hill,
where the Branscombes lived, was possible even
for an engaged man to make. But to one
impatient and in love, it is better to travel all
night and wait those four hours on the right
side of the line, than to go to bed like an
ordinary mortal and come down by the morning
mail  better a thousand times to lose a night's
rest and undergo unnecessary fatigue than to
forego two hours of love and gain six of repose !

Long before the house servants of Rose Hill
lead begun to stir, Cyril and the gardener were
having an improving talk as to the prospects
of the fruit crop and the general behaviour of
the vegetables. Bruce, the big watch-dog,
loosed for his morning run, was licking the
young lover's hands and trying hard to take
in his face as well. Jim, the groom, was telling
him all about the pony and her foal, the
new cob and the new mare, and how he did
not quite like the set of his ears nor the way
in which she carried her head; but when the
first clatter of opening shutters began at the

house, the young fellow, half ashamed of his
impatience, went off to the summer-house at
the end of the lime-tree walk, whence he could
see the upper windows and where he should
hear the gong sound for breakfast. And then,
sure of his welcome, he would be free to walk
in on the family just as they had seated themselves
at the table. Besides its convenience of
position, this little summer-house was a sacred
place to him ; for it was here that he had told
Stella he loved her and had asked her to be
his wife, and it was here that she had said she
loved him and would marry him if papa and
mamma approved.

How long it was before he heard the blessed
boom of that old bit of Chinese handicraft !
Surely time never went so slowly as it was
going now ! Leadenfooted, do you say ? 
paralyzed and with no more feet than a snail !
that was what he seemed to Cyril counting
the minutes as they dropped heavily into the
great sea of eternity and making them all the
slower by his own eager heat.

At last the appointed moment came. Mr.
and Mrs. Branscombe were in the dining-room ;
Stella was running down the stairs ; the
omelette and the kidneys, the tea and the
coffee, the toast and the marmalade, were fitly

disposed in proper form on the cloth ; the
solemn butler sounded the gong and told the
neighbourhood within earshot that Mr. and
Mrs. Branscombe were served ; and then Cyril
started up from his seat in the summer-house
and walked swiftly up the lime-tree avenue,
timing his entrance just as the first cup of
coffee was handed to Mr. Branscombe and the
business of the day had begun.

The young fellow was evidently a favourite
in the family and one to whom a special length
of rope was allowed. Not only was Stella
radiant with glad surprise at his coming so
long before he was expected  not only was
gentle Mrs. Branscombe as frank and affectionate
in her welcome as if he had been really the son
he already called himself  but Mr. Branscombe,
whose humour was the true weather-gauge at
Eose Hill, smiled as complacently at the rest
and did not look displeased at this interruption
to his breakfast. Wherefore Jones, the butler,
who, as a rule, resented domestic derangements
and surprises as in some sense personal affronts,
]put who followed his master's line to a hair,
smiled too as he ushered in Mr. Ponsonby and
scanned each face of the family while seeming
to see and notice nothing.

Sit down, boy, sit down ! What will you

take ? Jones, a plate for Mr. Ponsonby," said
Mr. Branscombe, as he gave Cyril two long,
white, scented fingers, his manner deprecating
unnecessary fuss.

On the hint of that manner both Mrs. Branscombe
and Stella acted ; each doing her best to
look and speak as if it were the most natural
thing in the world that Cyril should walk in
from London to breakfast, when he was not
expected before twelve at the earliest ; and as
if a girl's love and a mother's sympathy desired
no warmer expression than a man's half-indifferent
welcome and more than tepid acquiescence
in things as they stood.

On that hint too Cyril acted, with more
instinctive than conscious perception of its
importance. He sat down quietly enough at
the other side of the table, facing Stella ; for
the present quite content with the joy of looking
at her dear, dear face, meeting her glad,
sweet eyes which seemed to say all that he
most longed to hear, and listening to the sound
of her voice which was like the most melodious
music to his ears.

How beautiful she was ! He had not seen
her for a whole month ; and in that month she
had gained a world of additional loveliness and
had put on a thousand new charms. Her rich

brown hair had even more red gold in its tint,
more wave and ripple and straying rebellious
little curls and feathery fringes in its lines ; her
large blue eyes, as deeply blue as sapphires and
as soft as summer skies, were yet more beautiful
in form, more eloquent in expression  and
surely that fringe of curling lashes was even
longer than before and made them yet softer
and more starry ! Her complexion, so pure
and clear, with that creamy softness in the
shadows and that faint flush on her cheeks
which made it so like a sweet wild-rose, was
almost purer and clearer  as if happiness had
improved her health as well as gladdened her
heart ; and her supple figure looked yet more
graceful in the light-brown dress which clothed
her like wax without a suggestion of millinery
artifice. Her voice, that index of the nature,
was fuller and sweeter and more musical than
he had ever heard it  with always that faint
echo of possible sadness in its music which
showed that she had it in her to be a saint, a
martyr, or a heroine, according to the run of
circumstances and the ordering of life. Or,
haply, she might be only a tender and loving-woman
whose pure history and blameless
bearing would work like a charm in her own
immediate world, giving a standard of excellency

by wliicli to live and a measure of beauty that
would be like inspiration to the rest. And Cyril
meant that this should be her life. By God's
help he would keep her as she was  pure and
meek  from now to the day of her death ; and
make her happier than any woman had ever
been made in this sad world before !

She was peerless ; she was supreme. No
other girl in England was equal to her, personally
or morally, thought Cyril  his eyes
fixed on her with as much worship as love, as
much reverence as passion. All the same,
between whiles he eat his toast and drank his
coffee and made an heroic breakfast after the
manner of healthy, hungry, happy youth, glad
to live and rejoicing in his bodily well-being
and iiis love alike.

And what a perfect mother for such a
daughter Mrs. Branscombe was ! How sweet
and gentle, how calm and self-restrained !
She seemed never to think of herself, but to
live only for others ; to care only to do her
duty ; to make those around her happy ; to be
just and merciful for her child ; self-sacrificing
in her home ; attractive in the highest sense
and in every direction. Her life was the very
poetry of womanly tenderness ; but it was a
pity that her health was so delicate. She had

never been a robust woman and had always
been one of that sensitive kind with whom the
steel outwears the scabbard. Of late she had
begun to look startlingly frail, though she did
not complain, and Mr. Branscombe was too
much absorbed in his own occupations, while
Stella was too young to see all the length of
the way that she had gone. Besides, daily
familiarity with gradual change blinds the eyes
which have not been opened by fear; but
Cyril, pre-occupied though he was, was shocked
by the increased pallor, the greater attenuation
of that dear mother whose life was so infinitely
beautiful and so infinitely precious !

Nevertheless she made no complaint ; she
never did ; and when he anxiously asked her
how she was ? and was she quite well ?  she
smiled and answered quietly :

Yes, dear, quite well, thank you. A little
good for nothing at times. But the spring
has been trying ; and I always suffer in the east
winds."

I do not think you have suffered much this
year, Matilda," said Mr. Branscombe with
what in a less lovely man would have been a
slight amount of peevish displeasure in his
voice. " You have had nothing compared to
my neuralgia."

No, dear, indeed I have not," she answered
with a sympathetic air. " You have been very
bad at times, poor darling."

At times ? Always ! " he said, almost as
if she had flung a small affront into his fine
face. " I give you my word, Cyril, I have not
had one day this year free from the most
atrocious pain. No man but myself would
have borne what I have borne and not have
lost both heart and patience."

Poor papa ! " said Stella, full of yjity.

My poor Frederick ! " repeated Mrs. Branscombe,
her voice and eyes also full of pity.

I am very sorry to hear it, sir," said Cyril,
as his contribution to the litany of condolence
and compassion.

And yet how well and handsome and perfectly
preserved and superbly got-up altogether
this martyr to physical pain and mental depression
was ! Sixty last birthday  and no one
would have given him more than thirty-five.
How strange that his constant suffering had
told so little on him !

This is the kind of thins; that tests the
value of a man," said Mr. Branscombe, helping
himself to a second plateful of omelette. " Pain,
sleeplessness, nervous exhaustion, complete prostration,
total loss of appetite  and yet the

spirit rising superior to all these miserable infirmities
of the flesh  the blood of the gentleman
asserting itself in trials which would have
made the cart-horse-like boor lie down and
howl ! I have never lost a day's work through
it all, have I, Matilda ? "

No," said Mrs. Branscombe ; " you have not,
dear."

I have gone on just as if I had been in
rude health," he continued. " I have written
and painted and composed without intermission.
I have composed two-thirds of my operetta and
I have written four thousand lines of my grand
epic with not one single erasure  is there,
Matilda ? "

No, dear, not one," said Mrs. Branscombe.

No turning back and going over the ground
again and again, like a stammering child learning
to spell," he went on to say, tossing his
handsome head and curling his thin lips in
disdain for the poor literary clods who laboured
where he enjoyed, plodded where he skimmed,
corrected and re-wrote, reconsidered and erased,
where he swept the air with one beat of his
strong wing and completed in a day what
others would have taken ten to create and
another ten to perfect. " All right off, my boy
currente calais, at one dash ! That is the

way to work !  and that makes all the difference
between mediocre talent and the higher reach
of genius  between earth-born industry and
the heavenly power of the divine afflatus. I
will read it to you after breakfast, and play
you some of the choicest morceaux in my
operetta," he continued with a smile. He
meant the offer for grace ; and he expected it
to be taken as he meant.

*' That will be a great treat, I assure you,"
said Mrs. Branscombe, also smiling as she
turned to Cyril ; " but," to her husband, " suppose
you keep it, dear, till after dinner ? It
will be so delightful then !  and Cvril Inv
want to be out  or doing something else in the
morning."

Cyril has nothing surely of such importance
on hand that he cannot hear my poem and
operetta ; " said Mr. Branscombe testily.

No, sir. I assure you I shall be delighted
to hear them. Thank you, dear Mrs. Branscombe,
but of course I shall be charmed," said
Cyril hastily.

Instinctively he desired to keep well with
Stella's father ; and Stella's father was decidedly
touchy about his work ; and very
easily offended by the appearance of neglect.
Though Cvril loved Mrs. Branscombe the better

of the two, he would have had no hesitation
in declining any offer that she might have
made if not congenial to his humour ; but
j\[r. Branscombe was different ; and neither his
son-in-law elect nor any one else dared to say
'' No " when he said " Yes." In his heart
however, the lad wished the grand epic and
the best morceaux at the deuce, and his elegant
father-in-law with them. He had not seen
Stella for a whole month ; this was his first
visit after his engagement and that successful
examination on which the material security of
his love rested ; he had travelled all night and
had been mooning about the place for hours
at the risk of making himself ridiculous to the
men, simply to get three hours' extra happiness
thrown in ; and now it was coolly proposed
that he-should take the cream of the morning,
and devote, heaven knows how much time, to
listening to an epic written without corrections
hundreds of lines at a sitting  and to the
airs of an operetta dashed off without forethought
and only by the grace of inspiration !

Fate however, was kind and spared him.
After breakfast the divine afflatus came on
jMr. Branscombe with such power that he was
forced to defer his recitations until the evening,
as his wife had suggested. He must seize the

inspired moment, he said, before the spiritual
fire had burned down to the slag of everyday
common-place. It would be a sin to the world
to the present and future alike  were he tolet
humanity lose what he had it in his power
to bestow. Utterances such as his were not too
frequent ; and they were too valuable to be
neglected. And to this Cvril naturally said
Yes, certainly," with fervour ; and Stella and
her mother said " Yes," too, with more simplicity
of sincerity ; and then the two lovers
wandered away together, while Mrs. Branscombe
went to her daily office of transcribing
in a clear hand her husband's entangled hieroglyphics
;  till forced to leave her work and
take refuge in her own room, where only her
maid knew the fatal secret of her life.

And now Cyril's turn had really come, and
he was alone and undisturbed in the heaven of
his love. He improved the occasion and took
advantage of his freedom to tell Stella for the
hundredth time how beautiful she was and how
intensely he adored her ; how divine a thing-life
was to him at this moment ; and how he
thought her condescension in loving him at all
he so far beneath her as he was in goodness
and greatness of all kinds  the most wonderful
part of the whole matter ! He said a great deal

more ; but this was the theme round which all
the rest was merely a succession of variously-phrased
envelopes  ever the same thing under
different verbal dresses. He loved her; she
was something better than humanity ; and his
gratitude far equalled his glory in her love.

Ah ! how sweet it was to say all this out
on the lawn beneath that grand old spreading
cedar ! There they sat with instinctive modesty
full in view of the house, but as much alone as
if they had been indeed those primal two in
Eden, taking with tremulous feet the first
delicate and delicious steps along the enchanted
pathway of love  that enchanted pathway
which their posterity have trodden in the same
way ever since. The birds were singing in
the bushes, full-throated, rich, beseeching  here
the chant of the conqueror, there the song of
the wooer; the flowers were blooming in the
garden, and bees and butterflies and flies with
gauzy wings, "laden with light and colour,"
rifled the cups and poised above the petals ;
from every leaf and blade of grass  from every
tender twig flushed with sap, like blood that
blushes  from every opening bud still sheathed
like dreaming youth in its soft sweet case of
innocence  from the moss about the tree-roots
and from the resinous bark about the stems 

poured out the subtle scents of spring, calling
up the vague hopes, the unspoken desires, the
tender, dumb, self-unrevealed wishes of youth
and the unfulfilled. The blue sky, flecked with
cloudlets which but gave added beauty to its
serenity and presaged no disaster, shone through
the black boughs of the great tree beneath
which the lovers sat and the water-fall at the
back of the house added its endless music to
the great diapason of nature which filled their
with the large glad symphony of life. It
was in the springtime of the year and the
springtime of their love. The day was yet the
morning and they were in the morning of their
lives. No sorrow had touched them, no clouds
loomed dark and threatening in their sky.
Sunshine and music, perfume and love, were
about them like a golden haze, seen through
which everything was transformed to supernatural
beauty, where was not one sordid spot
for pain to strike or sorrow to root. It was
the heaven on earth of the poet and the dreamer
that heaven which we all enter when we love
and are beloved  when we trust and are assured.
It was the glad dawning of that future day
when they should live in unending glory, fed
on divine manna and free from the pains and
penalties which beset ordinary humanity  it

VOL. I. c

was the rosy-fingered dawn, heralding the great
Clod of Life and Joy !

All this they felt as they sat beneath the
horizontal branches of the great black spreading
cedar-tree, while they spoke of their love and
discussed their future ; he, counting the days,
and going into the arithmetic of the hours
which lay between now and that blessed twenty-fifth
of August when they were to be married ;
she, smiling when he laughed, glad when he
exulted, hopeful because he was confident 
always the woman's faithful following on the
man's advancing feet  always her tender echo
to his foregoing word.

How delightful it was to have him there !
How happy she was !  and how delicious it
was to be able to say to him that she was so
happy, and to answer : " Yes, I do," when he
asked her at least twenty times that morning :
'' Did she love him ? Was she sure ?  did she
love him quite as much as he loved her ? But
no ! That was impossible ! No one who ever
lived on the face of this earth  no one  no one
ever did or could love as much as he, Cyril
Ponsonby, loved her, Stella Branscombe ! It
was impossible. Human nature could not go
beyond itself ! "

And he believed what he said ; and she
believed it because he said it.

Just then they heard the sound of a hard,
dry, rasping cough. It was Mrs. Branscombe,
in her own room with Jane Durnsford, her
maid.

Poor mamma ! " said Stella. " She has such
a bad couo;h ! It has cluno to her all the winter
and will not go."

'" She is looking very pale and thin. I do
not think she can be well," said Cyril.

She says she is," Stella answered a little
anxiously. " She never confesses to more than
feeling rather languid."

She is so unselfish ! " said Cyril. " As unselfish
as you, Stella  my own beautiful Stella,
my Star, my Love ! "

And with this they wandered off again on
that enchanted pathway traversing Eden ; and
even Stella forgot that her mother had a cough
and looked pale and white, while listening to
the rhapsodies of her lover.

Chapter 11.

THE LITTLE RIFT.

The first thing that would strike any one
admitted into the Branscombe household was
its air of exquisite refinement and poetic
serenity ; the next would be the consciousness
of some want somewhere  a very vague and
indefinite kind of consciousness, and a want not
to be found like cobwebs for the looking, but
there all the same ;  something in the atmosphere
that would jar on the more sensitive and
yet the most observant could not say what it
was nqr where it lay.

Cyril, too young and strong and far too much
in love to be either sensitive or observant outside
that love, had never troubled himself about
things which he could neither touch nor demonstrate
; and vague consciousness was a state of
mind by no means natural to him. He saw all
things with healthy positiveness, or he did not

see them at all ; and he had as little to do with
shadowy suspicions as with ghosts. To his way
of thinking Mr. Branscombe was all that an
English gentleman of more mind than muscle,
and of poetic feeling in excess of practicality,
ought to be ; and Mrs. Branscombe was the
very ideal of a perfect wife, mother and gentlewoman.
The two together were absolutely
perfect ; and what Stella was to him we know.
That vague sense of want, that fine thread of
something not quite real, that faint echo of
hollowness beneath the golden sands discovered
by others did not exist for him ; and he accepted
the appearance of things with boyish good faith,
wishing neither to lift up transforming veils nor
to scratch off polished surfaces.

And indeed by the look of things, what a
perfect household it was !  and how invidious
as well as needless it was to imagine flaws
where none were visible, or that the circle was
not true when no one could find the exact point
where the line ran flat! Moreover, with whom
did the fault lie ?  if indeed fault there were at
all ; which Cyril would have passionately denied
had he been questioned. Most certainly not
with Mrs. Branscombe, all but perfect as she
was. With Stella? Ask if the moon gives
darkness instead of light, if the sun breeds fog

and miasmatic vapours ! No, certainly not with
Stella ; and if not with these two, then undoubtedly
not with Mr. Branscombe.

The kind of man of whom the women of his
family are at once so proud and so much afraid
to whom they give up their lives and think
themselves happy as well as honoured in the
sacrifice  whose will is as a Divine command and
whose opinions on all matters carry with them
the authority of righteousness and the weight
of perfected knowledge  to serve whom is to
carry incense to the altar, and to fail whom is
to be guilty of irreligion ;  Mr. Branscombe was
the high priest of his household ; a kind of
domestic Apollo, representing the last word of
refinement and the supreme result of culture.
He was eminently a Superior Person who had
to be petted and taken care of, flattered,
caressed, given way to, and surrounded by the
adulation of love at once submissive and protecting.
He was never to be crossed in his
moods, nor interrupted, nor told unpleasant
news, nor consulted in cases of difficulty, nor
made free of any form of truth which would be
likely to jar on a nature so finely organized and
full of exquisite susceptibilities as his. He was
to be obeyed at a hint ; his desires were to be
divined and fulfilled without the trouble of

interpretation ; and bis comfort was to be
attended to without bitch or worry. And then
be was to be allowed to think that be drove the
whole team and was eminently master in ibis
own bouse. And when, as be often did, be
complained of the distressing amount that be
bad to do and the weight of responsibility laid
on bis shoulders, bis wife did not laugh nor
did bis daughter remonstrate in favour of the
mother wbo pulled the labouring oar while be
flourished the flag  the one accepting for love
and deliberate decision what the other received
in faith.

Mr. Branscombe was still an exceedingly
handsome man, as be bad ever been. When
be was in the Guards, and before be married,
be was known as Handsome Fred Branscombe
by bis friends  Finery Fred by bis enemies ;
and the conscious airs and little affectations of
a beauty-man still clung to bim. He spent a
good deal of bis time in devising becoming
studio dresses for himself, chiefly of velvet,
with appropriate collars, bands and " minette ; "
bis still luxuriant locks were marvellously black
and bis elegant moustache and beard  cut Yang
 bad defied the silver fingers of
time with as much extraordinary pertinacity as
bad bis curling raven tresses. His bands were

long, poetic, white and well preserved ; and his
rather rodent-like teeth, as well as his waist and
feet, were marvels of care and get-up.

Besides his beauty which he still cherished ;
his toilette to which he sacrificed as much time
and thought as if he had been a pretty woman
on the wane ; his reputation as a lady-killer,
which he never forgot, he was, as he had
always been, a kind of dandy in art  playing
a little on the piano, painting not a little in
oils, writing poetry of an ambitious kind as well
as vers de societe for ladies' albums, setting
charades and one-act plays for drawing-room
entertainments, and the like. Rather late in
life, namely at forty years of age, he had
married sweet-faced Matilda Birmingham 
'* that good Matilda," as he used to call her ;
with a certain lofty compassion for her intellectual
inferiority which meant confession of
his magnanimity in overlooking her deficiencies
for the sake of her excellencies. And soon
after his marriage he left the army and took
up his abode at Rose Hill, near Highwood.
Here he turned to Art, as he called his play,
and founded his title to distinction on his
dandyism of pursuit as well as of person. He
undertook as many things as if he had been
the Admirable Crichton himself. Without more

than the merest smattering of musical knowledge,
ignorant of the first principles of thorough-bass
and the law of harmony, he composed
rondos and sonatas, motifs and nocturnal  and
of late he had begun an opera, score and libretto
both, which he called his Magnum Opus. He
did not know an Alexandrian from an hexameter,
nor an iambic from a trochee, but he
dashed off odes and sonatas by the dozen and
lately he had plunged into an epic with an airy
grace which poets of long practice in the art of
rhyme and rhythm might have envied. And
though he could not draw a round thing to
look solid, nor an upright thing in stable
equilibrium, he painted pictures of all genres,
and attacked a portrait as confidently as a
landscape, a cattle-piece, the heroic imaginativeness
of high art or the accurate delineations of
still life. His pictures were magnificently
framed and hung in the various dwelling-rooms
according to what he called the harmony of
associated ideas. They made professional artists
turn hot and cold by turns when invited to
discuss them on their merits ; while even the
technically ignorant, who had eyes and no
knowledge, laughed in their sleeves at the
anatomy of the living things and the drawing
of the inanimate.

All the same his wife praised and encouraged
him ; and no one knew whether she believed in
him sincerely or only flattered him because of
the sweet policy of love. And naturally Stella
followed her mother's lead. Born and educated
in the worship of her father as a Superior
Person, she went on worshipping him and
believing in him now, just as she used when
a child ; holding him, as she had been taught
to hold him, as the one transcendent man of all
creation, the ne plus ultra of English gentle-hood
and cultured civilization. He was to her
the impersonation of Matthew Arnold's " sweetness
and light ; " and when she thought of the
illustrious dead each seemed to her in some sort
a phase of dear papa  that microcosmic and
oecumenical genius who contained all forms of
beauty and goodness within himself and radiated
on every side, where others shine only on one.

He, on his part, received all this loving
adulation as a king might receive the tribute
of his vassals. Their worship of the highest in
him honoured these women who paid it even
more than it honoured him to whom it* was
paid. It was the recognition of superiority, he
said ; and their power of recognition proved
their own worth. The clod does not worship
the glow-worm, but man adores the sun. It

was his due and their duty ; and the two principles
were as harmonious as a musical chord.
He was fond of both wife and daughter, and
rested on the one far more than the other knew.
That good Matilda of his was everything to him
eyes and hands and feet and brains  mother,
wife, lover, audience and applause, all in one.
She followed his humours, bent herself to his
shape, interpreted his wishes and guided while
she obeyed. She guarded him from every unpleasant
accident of domestic life, yet gave in to
his fancy of holding himself as the pivot round
which the whole thing revolved. She loved
him ; or rather she had loved him when she had
married him full of enthusiasm for his genius,
of admiration for his beauty, of gratitude for his
love, of a girl's romantic belief in his infinite
superiority. Whether she woke from her dream
and found something in the weary life of reality
which she had not suspected in the ideality of
love, or whether she went on in her happy
blindness, she never told. All that the world,
Stella and her handsome husband himself saw,
was a devotion that had no limits, an expressed
admiration that was without stint, and
a supple self-effacement that made some women
angry, others jealous and a few contemptuous
of her slavishness.

They had been married two years before the
birth of their child came as an interruption  or
addition  to their happiness. It was an even
chance which it would be. Happily it was the
latter. Mr. Branscombe was rejoiced to be a
father. It completed the circle, he said ; and
he talked hazily about Plato's triangle and the
divinity of childhood. It gave him occasion
for a picture of his Household Star  the baby
in its nightgown  for a canzonet and a birthday
ode, a lullaby and a nocturne ; and he
glorified himself in that pink little bundle sucking
its fist in the cradle upstairs as if he were
Jove and this the infant Minerva, or as if he
were the first man to whom had been born a
child. He gave the name  Stella. She was
the Star of the House and the word went well
in poetry. He had hesitated long between
May and Iris  the one for her month, the other
a messenger from heaven ; he had tried Violet
and Rose, Daisy and Eglantine ; he had thought
of Mary for sweetness, of Margaret for dignity ;
and he had gone through all the heroines of
fiction and history. But none composed so well
as Stella ; and the Star therefore she remained.

He could scarcely have found a name more
appropriate. As time went on and her character
developed, the girl proved more and more her

right to be named as something bright and
pure and high and heavenly. She had not a
fault ; or if any at all it was that she had none.
She was almost too good, too self-sacrificing,
too high-minded. She wanted the relieving
shadows of a silly weakness here, a wilful
naughtiness there. She was just a little angel,
said all her nurses, all her teachers ; and gave
no trouble to any one. Yet she was not sickly.
She had sound nerves, a full chest, a healthy
appetite ; she could ride without fear, play
lawn-tennis to perfection, and row as if she
had been born with an oar in each hand. She
was without morbid fancies or unwholesome
superstitions and was just a loving, devoted,
conscientious and unselfish little girl, with the
possibilities in her of martyrdom should the
occasion occur. She would have loved her
heathen lover better than her life, but she
would have preferred, to his love with apostacy,
death and bearing faithful witness to the truth.
She was a girl Avhom the most impassioned
man could have loved wholly, without understanding
more than her sweetness, seeing more
than her beauty ; and she was one whom a sage
would have honoured and a priest would have
dedicated.

Such as she was, she was Cyril Ponsonby's

Adored ; and he was never weary of congratulating
himself on his marvellous good
fortune, nor quite able to understand why she
should have honoured him  she who might
have married a duke had she liked  and he,
who was comparatively a mere nobody, with
only one hundred and fifty pounds a year of
private fortune and nothing more certain than
brains, energy, youth and the future for the
rest !

Though by no means a brilliant marriage
in a worldly sense, this union of their only
daughter with young Cyril Ponsonby had met
with no opposition from the parents. It was
suitable in point of age and birth and they
could afford a dowry which would ensure the
barring out of that cruel wolf whose black
muzzle so often thrusts itself within the house
when the door has but slender golden fastenings.
The lad was well-built, healthy, generous,
strong, and handsome in a fine, manly way 
more suggestive of field-sports than lady-killing.
The two young creatures loved each other ;
what more was wanted than what they had ?
He was not rich certainly, but his family was
good and his name was without stain ; and
with his prospects and her dowry there was
no cause for fear. It would be a sorrow to part

with Stella, of course ; but girls are reade to be
married and taken out of the home ; and they,
the parents, always had each other.

While you live, my good Matilda, I shall
never want a companion," said Mr. Branscombe,
when the thing was talked of between them.

No ; while I live you will always have
some one to attend on you and take care of
you," she answered tenderly.

But nothing was said of her, the mother, nor
where she was to look for consolation. In her
love and her duties, of course, Mr. Branscombe
would have said, had he been asked. What
was the final cause of that good Matilda's
existence but to give without question of
receiving ? What is the glory of woman but
to love, to bless and to bestow ? Had he not
said so in that sonnet which he had addressed
to " My Wife ? "  that sonnet wherein he had
compared her to Ceres ; to Juno ; to Saint
Barbara with all the little children gathered
round her feet beneath her cloak ; to the moth,
which lays its eggs and dies ; to the grass which
feeds the lambs ; to the oak which man immortalizes
in a temple, a mansion, a ship ; to
the coal which is burned for the benefit of a
hero or a poet. That good Matilda was born
to set forth the beauty of self-effacement and

the holiness of self-sacrifice ; and he was not
the one to interfere with natural arrangements
and throw the machinery of Providence out of
gear by ministering to that which had been
predestined to minister to him.

And she, whatever she might feel, said
nothing by way of regret  not even to Stella
herself  but rather did her best to hasten on
the marriage as much as it was seemly to do ;
she and faithful Jane Durnsford, her maid,
alone knowing why.

So there the whole thing stood on velvet, as
sporting men say. There was not a hitch, nota
cross, not a cloud ; and the lute of life and
love gave forth its fullest and most melodious
music.

It was now May, and in August the two
were to be married. Three months which love
ran into days as they passed and longing
lengthened into years as they were looked at 
three months of blissful anticipation, of joyous
realities  and then the fulfilment of their
dearest dreams.

Meanwhile, the young lovers sat on the lawn
beneath the spreading cedar-tree, while Mrs.
Branscombe and her maid discussed the secret
that was between them, and Mr. Branscombe,
in his study below, dashed off at white-heat

verses wliicli would not scan, rhymes which
were not harmonic, and thoughts which were
so much intellectual chaff without a grain of
wheat to give sustenance or support. But he
was satisfied with his work, dear man !  and
presently, getting impatient by her absence, he
called that good Matilda to listen to what he
had done, and be, as so often before, his audience
and his applause.

When dinner was over and the family
had assembled in the drawing-room, then the
famous epic was produced and read to its author's
running commentary of interpolation  his designation
of the fine image here, the sonorous
music there  the cadence of this line, the ingenious
rhyme of that.

*' Then black-browed night arose,
With her veil of stars and snows."

That is fine, Matilda, is it not ? You seethe
image, Cyril ? The stars spangling the
veil of night  that veil the snow-topped mountains.
Perhaps it will not bear the coarse touch
of prose," said Mr. Branscombe with a little
hesitation ; " but in poetry, which is so much
more vague and suggestive, it comes grandly."

Yes, dear," said Mrs. Branscombe.

I think it lovely, papa," said Stella, whose
faculty did not lie in criticism.

VOL. 1. D

It is a very fine image, sir'' said Cyril, who
had not heard very clearly.

And when Mr. Branscombe had thus gathered
in his little harvest, he smiled, raised the
delicate white hand which had been drooping
gracefully from the wrist over the arm of his
chair, ran his fingers through his curled and
scented hair, smoothed with the tips of his
fingers his irreproachable shirt-front, and then
went on with his reading as before.

Suddenly, Mrs. Branscombe gave a deep sigh
and turned deadly pale. A shudder ran over
her ; her hands dropped nervelessly in her
lap ; her eyes closed ; her breath came in short
gasps ; and she fell backward in her chair ina
strange and sudden faint.

All was tumult and confusion, tears, distress
and terror ; but when Jane Durnsford
came on the summons, she seemed strangely
collected and as if she had gone through the
whole thing before. She knew exactly what
to do ; and she did it ; and when Mr. Branscombe,
whose helpless distress was almost as
pitiable as his wife's condition, said half
peevishly : " Have you ever seen your mistress
like this before, Durnsford?" she answered
with a sudden flash in her eyes which no one
could exactly read : " Yes, sir, many times. It

has only been a wonder to me that no one but
myself knew."

Send for the doctor at once !  send for
Dr. Quigley, instantly ! " cried Mr. Branscombe
in extreme agitation. * Do you mean to say,
Durnsford, that your mistress is chronically out
of health, and I do not know it ? Where are
those men ? Send for Quigley ! Cyril, my
boy, do you go for him ! Heavens ! that I
should have been deceived to this frightful
extent ! "

'' It is of no use sending for Dr. Quigley,
sir," said Jane Durnsford. " I know what todo
as well as he can tell me. Indeed, he did
tell me."

Oh, Durnsford, has mamma consulted Dr.
Quigley, and we never knew ! " said Stella,
who was kneeling by her mother's side chafing
her hands.

Yes, miss," answered the maid.

But what is it ? What is it ? " repeated
Mr. Branscombe.

Heart, sir. She has what the doctor calls
aneurism of the heart, and may die at any
moment. But she has not gone this time, poor
dear ! " added Jane, as a slight sio-h stirred the
lips of the fainting woman and a tinge of colour
stole back into her waxen face.

CHAPTER III.

ANTICIPATIONS.

No ; she had not gone this time ; and on her
recovery, that good Matilda  who was so much
better than her husband knew  made light of
her attack ; said it was nothing, and that they
were not to be alarmed. She half rebuked Jane
Durnsford for her imprudent admission ; but
she was forced to confess that the doctor had
certainly told her something was a little wrong
with her heart, and that she might die suddenly
if she over-excited herself, lifted a heavy weight,
ran up stairs, got into a violent rage, or did any
other childish folly not very likely to be done
by a sedate woman of her age, she added, with
one of her sweet smiles which were more
pathetic than tears. They were not to fret or
worry about her, she said. Creaking wheels
last a long while, and she should live to look

after them all and see that they got into no
mischief for many years to come ! They were
to forget this little alarm, and not allow it to
sadden them.

And with this she drew Stella to her bosom
and gave her hand to Cyril.

If only I might see you both happy ! " she
said tenderly. " I wish that August was
nearer ! " she added with a smile checked by a
sigh.

My poor wife ! " said Mr. Branscombe. " I
must read you no more of my poetry. It
evidently stirs you too much. If I had known
of your state I would have spared you the excitement
 delightful as it is to me as an artist
to see how you are moved."

"I can always hear your work, dear," answered
Mrs. Branscombe quietly. " I should be sorry
to lose the pleasure of knowing what you do."

Yes ; it would be a privation for you, my
poor dear ; but if it is bad for you ?  I must
take care of you and not do you harm ! "

In this Mr. Branscombe was, for the moment,
both considerate and sincere. He did really
think that it was a dangerous experiment for
this poor, weak heart to have to listen to his
halting rhymes and foggy metaphors ; and it
was therefore a sacrifice of self to conscience, of

vanity to tenderness, when he said that he
would give up his recitations because the mental
emotions which they excited were hurtful to the
health of his good Matilda. But Mrs. Branscombe,
for all that she accepted her husband's
words as they were meant for the moment,
knew only too well the truth of things ; and,
meeting bravely what she knew would overtake
her, she shook her head in pleasant deprecation
as she answered : 

Always well enough to hear you, dear."

Ah ! " he said smiling ; '' you are only
a child after all, Matilda! Sweets  sweets 
though they hurt you. Well, I must manager
for you, and not let you be excited beyond what
yon can bear."

And with this the matter dropped and the
death, which had been so fatally near, faded
into the background as a grim sentinel ever
standing between the chamber and the sun, but
not obtrusive nor making his presence distinctly
felt.

The secret, hitherto kept with such care
between the mistress and the maid, gradually
leaked out ; and soon the rumour crept through
the neighbourhood that Mrs. Branscombe, of
Rose Hill, was seriously ill and that her days
were numbered. Exaggerations were added, as

of course ; and she was credited with all the
diseases possible between epilepsy and consumption.
But the main fact was unfortunately
true, and the world gradually came to the
knowledge of that which had looked it in the
face unrecognized so long.

Poor, dear, sweet Mrs. Branscombe ! How
sorry I am ! But if I were Stella I would throw
aside everything else and marry out of hand at
once." said Mrs. Latrobe, the handsome, fair-haired
widow who had been obliged to return
with her child to her old home, the Laurels,
where she lived under the heavy-handed tutelage
of her mother, Mrs. Morshead  '' that
terrible old woman " as she was generally
called ; and with reason.

' I have not the smallest doubt but that you
would, Augusta," said her mother sourly, in
reply. " Between self-willed indulgence and
duty there is very little question which you
would choose."

This was a hit at that unfortunate past when
Augusta had carried her point of marrying
Professor Latrobe  a man much older than
herself, who could make no settlements and
whom she did not specially love, but whom, in
default of a better chance, she accepted and went
away with, simply to escape from her mother'?

intolerable tyranny. Now that he had died
and left her penniless, she thought herself bound
by duty to return to the old bondage ; and for
the sake of her little son and his inheritance, she
went back to the misery of her past, rendered
harder to bear because of her temporary escape
into peace, freedom and affection.

It was a horrible life. Mrs. Morshead treated
her daughter as something between a servant
and a child, and made her daily bread very
bitter to her. No one but Augusta could have
borne it ; but then Augusta Latrobe had that
rare quality in woman, absolute self-control and
reasonableness. What she thought it wise
to do, that she did in spite of everything, disinclination
and pain included ; and when it was
necessary to submit to unpleasantness  well !
she submitted cheerfully and made the best of
them.

But, mother, she has a duty to Cyril 
too," Augusta said briskly ; for with all
her tact and sweetness of temper she held her
own against her mother on occasions. She was
not rolled quite flat, though she was made
very smooth. " If that poor dear Mrs. Branscombe
dies and Mr. Branscombe does not
want Stella to marry and leave him  he is quite
capable of it  what is Cyril to do ? Give up

his wife and happiness for that selfish old
fellow ? "

What else should he do ? What else can
Stella do but stay with her father?" retorted
Mrs. Morshead. " What has become of all the
filial duty and obedience of your modern
daughters, I wonder ? What ought a good girl
to do but stay with her widowed father or
mother ? After all the trouble and anxiety that
you have caused us from the hour of your birth
up to the very last day of our lives, it is not
much to ask that you should attend to us when
we get old."

In that case the world would come off but
oddly," said Augusta. " Would you let only
those girls marry where there are many in the
family, and always keep one as a kind of nest-egg
at home ? Would you never let only
daughters marry ? "

I would at least have them marry men who
could maintain them like ladies while they lived;
and leave them a few pounds to keep them out
of beggary when they died," said Mrs. Mors-head
fiercely. " I would not have them first
disobey a mother and nearly break her heart by
their undutifulness, and then come back on her
with a family, as the only refuge against the
workhouse. And none but such a foolish, weak.

old creature as I am would put up with it, so I
tell you ! "

Now, mamma, don't be cross ! You know
you are much happier with me and Tony than
you would be without us, and you only like to
grumble. But I will not let you scold. It is
bad for you, and you do not mean it."

As she said this Augusta rose from her place,
giving her mother a nice little pat on her heavy
old shoulders as she passed her, and went out of
the room just a shade hastily. She was good-tempered
and she was reasonable, but she had
nerves and red blood like any other person ; and
she did not care that her patience should be
over heavily taxed.

Others beside Augusta Latrobe said they
wished that Stella Branscombe would get
married now, at once ; for every one seemed to
feel that danger threatened her happiness should
her mother die before that happiness had been
secured. But though Mrs. Branscombe seriously
proposed the shortening of the interval, and
urged the hastening of the marriage by at least
six weeks  and though naturally enough, Cyril
was ready and Stella was not reluctant  yet Mr.
Branscombe would not hear of it. He had not
written his Epithalamium ; his grand Wedding
March, to be played in the church during

the service, wliicli was to be choral, was not
composed ; and he was too much occupied with
his epic to attend to either just yet. And with
these important objections he overruled every
suggestion offered, and opposed an immovable
opposition to his wife's prayer. And when a
man talks of his work as superior to human
happiness, not much good is to be done, if he has
the reins in his own hands and can drive the
chariot of life at his pleasure.

It was in vain that Mrs. Transcribe tried all
her old arts, hitherto so successful ; in vain that
she sought to guide him in the right way by
tender flatteries, subtle suggestions. He yielded
to none of them ; and even showed signs of
seeing through the veil which until now had
been so impenetrable. To paint him to himself
as grand, magnanimous, semi-divine, should he
do this thing or that which it was his manifest
duty to do, though generally efficacious enough
as a rule, failed now. His pride was bound
up with the production of this Epithalamium
which was to be printed in silver letters
on white vellum, tied up with silver cord, and
distributed to all the guests. His heart was
set on hearing his grand Wedding March played
by a good organist  whom he would have down
from London ; and if the assembled hearers

should not have the good taste to tell him that
he had equalled Mendelssohn, and perhaps surpassed
him, his own knowledge would supply
their deficiency, and he would pity their ignorance,
not suspect his own shortcomings. It was
too much to expect that he would give up all
this intellectual splendour, all this artistic
triumph, merely to satisfy the whim of his good
]matilda and allow the two troublesome young
creatures to be married sooner than was arranged.
The twenty-fifth of August had been
fixed as the auspicious day ; and the twenty-fifth
of August it should be ; and his dear wife only
lost her time in trying to bend his will. He
was resolute, determined, positive. He owed it
to himself, his genius, his fame and his child's
glory to be firm in this matter ; and what he
owed to himself he generally paid in full. No
more need be said  no, not though she besought
with insistence and strange agitation  tears in
her eyes and her voice broken as one earnestly
pleading for a grace that carried with it more
than appeared in the words.

It was bad for her to excite herself, her husband
reminded her with exasperating placidity
that placidity which means the very beatitude
of obstinacy. She must be wiser than this ; she
must indeed ! This was more like ah hysterical

school-girl than his good Matilda who was
generally so reasonable and easy to manage !
And to break herself against the rock of his
will, for a whim, was perfectly impracticable
and impossible. How absurd ! The idea was
inadmissible ; and she need not give herself any
trouble about the matter. His mind was made
up, and he could not possibly change it to
entertain her proposition.

'' My Epithalamium  my Wedding March 
surely Matilda, you, who respect my genius,
cannot advise me to abandon these two great
works  these immortal monuments to our
daughter's name ! "

I should be very, very sorry, as you know,
dear," was her answer ; ' but they could come
after, all the same, could they not ? "

And lose their point, their life, their meaning,
their raison d'etre ? My good Matilda !
how easy it is to see that you know nothing
of the sacred fire, the divine afflatus ! Ask a
poet to forego the theme of his inspiration  ask
a musician to allow those harmonious chords
vibrating in his brain, to be for ever mute in
the strings  and you ask him for what is dearer
to him than life. Between the unnecessary
hastening of this marriage by six weeks, and
the perfection of any two ideas, there can be no

kind of hesitation ; and I must say I am a little
pained as well as surprised by your proposing
what is practically artistic suicide ! "

But cannot you do them now, dear ? " she
asked. " You would have nearly six weeks
from now if you would consent to the marriage
at the beginning of July."

How can I leave my epic to break new
ground ? My good Matilda, what an irrational
scheme ! The inspiration that is in me now
might never return if once checked. Genius is
not like a loaf of bread, my poor wife. You
cannot cut your slice then lay it aside for today
to find it serviceable in the cupboard when
you want it tomorrow. You must catch the
divine fire as it flows, or rather I should say as
it burns. If I were to give up my epic it
would remain for ever a fragment  a colossal
fragment truly, but one that would fill the
world with a sense of loss  that would be a sin
against humanity at large, in that it had never
been finished and perfected."

Is it really impossible ? " she asked again.
With your facility could you not force yourself
to return to the old strain ? "

No," he answered shortly. " What you
are pleased to call my facility is in point of fact
only the rush and swirl and outpour of genius.

I could not force myself to that which comes
unbidden like the winds of the morning, the
zephyr of the evening. And," he added
peevishly, dropping his grand manner for colloquial
terseness; ''I shall not try;  so now
you know."

With this the conversation ended. There
was no good in wounding her husband's vanity
without result ; and Mrs. Branscombe had
always known when the next would be just
the step too far, and how to hark back gracefully
over a shaky bit of ground already
traversed. Had not her whole life been passed
in the exercise of this delicate discrimination ?
this tact that was almost like second si o't ? 
in removing sticks and straws out of his way,
so that he should have smooth walking no
matter whose feet were torn ?  in making him
happy and contented through his vanity, rather
than suffering that vanity to lead him into
follies abroad because wounded and neglected
at home ? It was only one among thousands of
the examples with which her days where filled ;
yet this was the hardest of all. She would
have given all that she possessed in life to have
hastened this marriage and to have known that
Stella's happiness was secure. But she was
powerless when it came to a real collision of

wills between herself and her husband. When
he ruled a negative her desire was nowhere ;
and what she could not win by management
she could not obtain by force of decision.

Your father will not consent, my darling,"
she said to her daughter when she came back
from her sleeveless errand. " He has set his
heart on his poem and the Wedding March ;
and it would pain him so much if he did not
have them ready for the day! He says he
cannot possibly do them before the twenty-fifth
of August ; and you know how much he holds
by his work. We cannot say anything when
he puts forth this plea."

Mrs. Branscombe said all this quite quietly
and naturally; but she did not look at her
daughter while she spoke. She found it difficult
to uphold the claims of a bit of wordy
jingle and ungrammatical music before those
of human life and happiness.

Dear papa ! how good and kind he is to
take so much trouble," said Stella simply. " I
am so grateful to him, and 1 am sure they will
be grand ; but I wish that he could have got
them done earlier. Not that I care about
marrying sooner for myself, darling, but you
seem to wish it so much, and so does poor
Cyril ; but, after all, perhaps papa knows best."

He generally does," said Mrs. Branscombe.

She had brought up her daughter in this
faith and she upheld it even at this moment.

And then, if you are not so well as you
ought to be, I do not care to leave you a minute
sooner than I must;" continued Stella lovingly,
putting her arms round her mother's neck.
It will be bad enough when it comes, though
I do love Cyril so dearly  oh ! you know that !
But if I could have married and settled here in
Highwood, quite close to you so that I could
have seen you every day and all day long, how
nice that would have been ! How I wish I
could, mother ! "

So do T, my darling," answered her mother.
But it is the law of life. We mothers have to
give up our children  our sons to the world
and our daughters to husbands. It cannot be
helped ! It is the price that we pay for the
glory and delight of maternity."

It is a dreadful pity, all the same," said
Stella.

Will you say that to Cyril, my pretty ? "
asked her mother playfully. " Or is it only to
please the old mother ? "

The girl laughed her denial, and kissed her
mother's beating throat. How it beat ! How
hard and heavy and full and quick where those

VOL. I. E

Hammer-like throbs ! Was this part of the
terrible presage ? She did not say what she
thought, but she clung to her mother very
tenderly as she answered :

I love Cyril better than my life, mother ;
but he knows how much I love you and papa
too ; and he is such a dear, good boy !  he is
not jealous."

"Who is not jealous?" asked Cyril, coming
through the open window from the lawn.

You," said Stella, smiling all over her face
as if a sunbeam had crossed it.

I have no cause," he answered. " If I had,
I do not say what I would be. I do not think
I should be generous enough to divide your
affections, even if you wished it. But I cannot
imagine that. What made you say that I
was not jealous ? "

There was just a dash of uneasiness in his
voice ; something that was not quite like Cyril's
usual richness and roundness of confidence in
himself and fortune.

Jealous of papa and mamma," said Stella,
again kissing her mother.

He drew a deeper breath.

Oh 1 that's it, is it ? Well, no, I am not
likely to be jealous of them. That would be
absurd and bad form too ! "

You have no reason to be," said Mrs.
Branscombe quietly. " The child loves you
as much as the most exacting lover in the
world need desire. Never forget that, Cyril !
She loves you with her whole heart and soul."

The mother spoke tremulously ; and as she
spoke the tears came for the second time to-day
into her mild, patient eyes.

Dearest mother ! My own dear, darling
mother ! " said Stella fondly.

She does not love me less for loving you so
much," said Cyril also fondly ; but why this
sudden sadness ? this under-current of pain ?
this strange sense of shadow in the cloudless
sky ? Ah ! he forgot that she, this dear
mother, was ill. It was her failing health that
had touched her nerves and made her so much
more sensitive than she used to be. " And whatever
happens," he continued, meaning Stella's
marriage and consequent departure from home ;
she will always love you just as much as she
does now. One love does not drive out another,
and her heart is large enough to hold the two."

You answer for me very confidently," said
Stella forcing a laugh ; and the mother also
forced a laugh in concert, so that the sudden
shadow passed and the under-current of pain
was lost in the ripple of the smiling surface.

LIBRARY ~~
Universe OF eli-IN(

And then Cyril and Stella went out into the
garden, where they spent nine-tenths of their
time, and once more found Paradise and security
beneath the spreading branches of the old cedar
on the lawn.

If only Fred would have consented ! " replied
Mrs. Branscombe, looking after them
sadly. " If I could but see her safe, and feel
sure that she would not have to live as I have
lived ! Oh, that Grod would give me strength
to carry me over these coming weeks, so that
I may live till I have seen her safe ! "

Would she ? When Colonel Moneypenny
asked Dr. Quigley as they came out of church
the Sunday after the rumour of her malady
crept about : " How he really thought Mrs.
Branscombe was ? " and : " Was it true that
she was in a very bad way, and might reckon
up the weeks she. had to live on her fingers ? "
the doctor  who liked her and knew of her
more than any one did in Highwood  looked
more than professionally grave as he answered :
"It is impossible to limit the recuperative
power of nature ; but if she does not get better
soon we may prepare for her being much
worse." And this from a man as cautious and
cheery as Dr. Quigley was almost as bad as a
sentence of death.

It was indeed doubtful if she would last over
these three intervening months. That aneurism
was certainly not decreasing, it was scarcely
stationary ; and she had a cough, which was
about the worst thing that she could have in
her present circumstances. It shook her to
pieces, as Jane Durnsford said, and made her
often feel as if this were indeed death. She
was also evidently anxious about something,
though no one could imagine what it was.
There was nothing new in her life, save this
marriage which she had sanctioned and desired
with all her heart. So why should she be
anxious ? they asked one of another ; and no
one knew what to answer. No one knew
the secret of her thoughts ; not even Jane
Durnsford, who had known that other secret so
long. But every one felt that something was
underneath the smooth appearance of things, and
that sweet, patient, gentle Mrs. Branscombe 
that good Matilda  had some kind of unspoken
trouble which did not tend to make her present
precarious state of health more reassuring.

The first fear past, things gradually slipped
back into their old groove. All was just as it
had ever been ; save that Stella hung about her
mother more tenderly than before  anticipated
her wishes with more of the prescience of love

and, for all that she was in one sense absorbed
by Cyril, seemed to live more and more in her
mother's life ; that Cyril was even more contented,
more gentle, more loving and more
considerate than he had ever been  and he had
always been " such a dear boy to me," as she used
to say ; and that Mr. Branscombe prefaced his
perpetual requirements with : "If you feel well
enough, my good Matilda ; "  " If it will not tire
you too much, my poor wife "  will you come
into my elegant studio and give me your time,
your mental energies, your attention, your very
life's blood, by listening to the poorest trash
that ever dribbled from a human brain, with
the understanding that you are to applaud and
find it all excellent and without fault ?

The weight was laid on her as heavily as
before ; and what a terrible weight it was !
Who that has not known can estimate the pain
of this awakening from the loveliest dream of
romance that ever gilded maiden fancy into the
most meagre prose of reality by which wifely
knowledge was disenchanted ?  finding the man
whom she had believed to be a genius nothing
but a wind-bag ; finding the nature which she
had believed to be chivalrous and exalted,
selfish, vain and mean ; finding the man to be
simply a mask ; yet forced to live as if she still

believed in the depth of the shallowness so
sorrowfully gauged ; forced to pretend that she
found his verses poetry, his music melody, his
paintings art ; forced to give her life in transcribing,
and her strength in praising, things
which were not worth the paper on which they
were written ! And she, naturally the soul of
truth, to live with the oppressive knowledge
of her own life-long deception and his substantial
worthlessness, yet to be unable to tell
the terrible secret to living being  to be almost
afraid and ashamed to confess it to herself!

No wonder that her nerves and heart had
given way under the strain ; that nature had
avenged herself on the strength by which she
had been coerced !

This, then, was why Mrs. Branscombe yearned
so ardently to live till she had seen Stella safely
married. She knew what her own existence
had been as the moral sacrifice, the intellectual
victim, of her husband ; and she feared that he
would take her child as he had taken her, and
make a second sacrifice when the first was exhausted.
Should she, the mother, die before
her daughter was safe under the protection of
Cyril, she feared that the marriage would be
broken off in order that Stella might be kept
at home to be the companion of her father.

Unable to rise to the dignity of unselfishness,
or to bear the ennui of his loss and loneliness?
he would take the girl's happiness as the
cushion for his own, and break her heart and
Cyril's that he might have some one to whom
to read his epic and play over his latest
nocturne. And then Stella would find out
the true nature of this idolized father of hers,
whom now she believed flawless and touched
with a spiritual grace beyond that of the common
race of men.

All this was just what no one in the whole
world suspected. The Branscombe marriage
had always passed for one of the happiest
which the mind of man could conceive or the
heart of woman desire. Tastes, souls, characters,
were all twins one with the other, according
to the general belief of society ; and had
any one at Highwood been told that Mrs.
Branscombe was literally dying of her husband's
artistic elegance  dying of his odes and
his canzonets, his operettas and his pictures 
it would have been as if he had witnessed an
ugly miracle whereby beauty had suddenly become
foulness and truth had crumbled down
into falsehood.

But it would not have been believed. Mrs.
Branscombe had kept the secret too well to

give the smallest loophole of suspicion, save to
Dr. Quigley  not even to poor Durnsford. She
had married with the fullest faith in love and
sentiment, and with the principle superadded
of the strictest wifely duty. This wifely duty
included in her mind absolute self-surrender
and devotion. The wife of a criminal should
stand by him in the dock ; the wife of a sham
should hide her knowledge of the mask and
maintain the integrity of the thing represented
only, not existing. Life-long deception for the
maintenance of a husband's undeserved repute
was a sorrow truly, but no sin  a strain, but
no crime. A woman's conscience knew no
higher virtue than conjugal devotion ; and a
mother's duty was involved in bandaging her
children's eyes and bringing them up in blind
worship of their paternal wind-bag. On this
principle she had acted, in this practice lived ;
but the terrible tension told on her at last, and
Dr. Quigley said to himself : " The wonder is,
not that there is aneurism of the heart, but that
it did not develop earlier and that it has lasted
so long I "

CHAPTER IV.

FULFILMENT.

Stella had two especial friends at Highwood,
Augusta Latrobe and Hortensia Lyon. They
were friends fulfilling very different functions
and of a very unequal calibre one from the
other. Mrs. Latrobe, though still young, had
leaped the gulf which separates maidenhood
from womanhood, and was therefore the denizen
of an unknown country and so far somewhat of
a stranger to her former playfellows ; while
Hortensia was a girl like Stella herself and
stood on the same plane and platform.

For all that, Augusta was perhaps really the
favourite ; and Stella usually gave good heed
to what the bright-tempered, fair-haired, reasonable
widow said to her. She felt that Augusta
spoke from a broader view of things, a wider
horizon and a clearer knowledge of life. Had
she not been married for six years, living out

of High wood and in the heart of London
society ? Of course, then, she knew life better
than a country girl who had never left home
possibly could ; and, as was said, for the most
part Stella gave heed to her and respected her
understanding.

But not this time ! How indeed could she ?
When Augusta came up to Rose Hill and
gravely proposed to the girl that she should
marry Cyril Ponsonby  secretly, if need be,
but at once  it nearly brought about a quarrel
between the two, so great was the girl's horror
and surprise at a proposition which seemed to
her the very acme of indelicacy.

'* Why should I marry, secretly and at once,
when I am so soon to be Cyril's wife in the
face of the world and without deceit ? " she
asked indignantly.

There are many things which women can
advise girls to do yet not be able to give all
the reasons," was Augusta's tranquil answer.
If you were wise you would take my advice
and act on it."

"- But, Augusta, what would my father and
mother say to such an extraordinary thing ? "
said Stella, opening her beautiful eyes to their
widest. " What would Cyril himself think of
it ! He would be as shocked as I myself."

Time would show," answered Augusta
sententiously. " My advice is good, and I
know what I am saying."

You are generally not so mysterious," said
Stella, trying to laugh the whole thing into
vapour.

You need not treat it lightly," returned her
friend gravely. " I am mysterious if you like
to say so ; but I am awfully in earnest."

Then give me some reason  tell me why,"
was Stella's rejoinder.

'' Shall I ? Are you sensible enough to hear
the truth ? "

I think so," she said. " I care more for
the truth, however unpleasant, than for pretty
pretences."

Well, then, listen. Suppose your mother
dies. You know she is in bad health, and
may ; so why do you shrink and say ' Oh,
Augusta ! ' as if I had said something monstrous
and impossible ? Well, suppose she dies, then
your marriage will be delayed, heaven knows
how long ; and you never know what may
happen when once these things are put off."

It would be such a sorrow," said Stella, her
eyes full of tears, " that I could easily give up
my own happiness for a little while. I do not
think I should care much for myself at all if
I lost her."

And Cyril ? "

Cyril would feel with me, I am sure of
that."

*' And go to India without you ? "

If necessary, yes ; but it would not be
necessary. I could be married quietly, without
parade or fuss, even if such a dreadful thing
had happened. But I cannot bear to discuss
the probability, Augusta. It is too dreadful."

And if your father objected to the marriage
? " continued Augusta, not heeding Stella's
disclaimer.

'' He would not."

In that case the argument goes for nothing;
but if he did, would you give up Cyril ? "

Augusta, how cruel you are to-day ! How
do I know what I would do ? " said Stella, a
certain look of terror breaking through the
mournfulness on her face.

Oh, I see ! you would give up Cyril," said
sirs. Latrobe tranquilly.

'' If papa wanted me to stay with him fora
little while to comfort him, it would be my
duty, even if I had to put off my marriage fora
few months."

And if he wanted you to break off altogether
? Are you prepared to make that sacrifice
too, Stella ? "

He would not ask me," she answered.

Mrs. Latrobe gave an odd kind of smile.

You are just like all the rest," she said ;
afraid of being pinned to a point. Well !
remember that I counsel you to marry now, at
once, without fuss and even secretly, if need be."

And make my happiness out of my mother's
chance of dying ? Augusta ! how dare you
advise such a tiling ? It seems to me almost
like murder  like killing her for my own
advantage."

Augusta Latrobe slightly shrugged her
shoulders. They were broad, finely-modelled,
and as white and smooth as ivory beneath her
dress.

My dear," she said, " I have as much sentiment
as any one need have, but I have flung
overboard all superfluity. I find life a tight
pattern at the best ; and I think the wisest
thing we can do is to make ourselves as comfortable
as possible. Analyze what I have said,
and what harm is there in it ? Only a very
necessary precaution against possible disappointment,
like settlements against your husband's
possible ill-conduct in money when you
marry. You believe in Cyril ; but you will
have settlements all the same as if you had nota
particle of trust in him. You put your happiness

into his hands, but you protect yourself
by all the power of the law against his dishonour.
So you believe in your father's unselfishness
and your mother's immortality, but
I for one think you would be wise to secure
yourself against a possible disappointment in
the one and sorrow from the other."

You and I see things differently," said
Stella. " I could not act in this way. It
would be too cold-blooded ! "

Yes, that is just it. It would be rational ;
and reason always is cold-blooded," said
Augusta.

We need not be all reason  we must have
a little sentiment  a little feeling," Stella
returned.

Ah, my dear ! a very little is enough, I
assure you. Reason carries the heaviest metal
and goes the farthest, believe me. If you had
the brains I always thought you had you
would let me persuade you ; and you would be
Cyril Ponsonby's wife before the week was
out."

Now, do not let us talk of it any more,"
said Stella hastily. '' I ought to be very
angry with you, but I know that you mean
well and have spoken for my good, and I cannot
be vexed. But, indeed, dear Augusta, I

am pained. I did not think you would have
said all this."

You are a good little goose," said Augusta
kindly. " I have said my say ; discharged my
conscience ; so now we will let the matter drop.
You value sentiment you see. and I go in for
common sense. We will see which wins in the
end. Now, take me into your conservatory like
a love. I hear you have the most magnificent
lapigeria in all Highwood, and my mother said
I was to be sure and see it and ask your
gardener how he has managed to cultivate such
a beauty."

You may ask, but he will not tell," said
Stella, as lightly as she could speak. " Mason
has his secrets of cultivation which he tells no
one, not even us."

What is his price ? " said Augusta with
unmoved placidity. "" Every one has his or
her price."

Augusta, what an awful principle ! " cried
Stella.

Truth always is awful, dear, to those who
have not learned her lessons by heart. Then it
becomes common-place and ceases to terrify,"
said Augusta ; and with this the two went out
into the garden on their way to the greenhouse,
and Stella wondered if she should ever again

love her friend as much as she once did, or
forget the painful impression made on her by
to-day's talk.

And as they went into the greenhouse they
fell upon Cyril in the full freedom of prospective
sonship, smoking his cigar among the flowers
tobacco being good against the green fly and
the red spider.

While looking at the flowers, Augusta
managed to get a few paces apart with Cyril.
Really she scarcely knew why she took all this
trouble about these young people and their
concerns ! What could it matter to her whether
they married now or not ? Only she was good-natured,
and did not like to think that they
would be made miserable. Still, half despising
herself and half deprecating her own solicitude,
she did what she could ; so, bending over a fine
pecunia which she affected to praise and did not
see, she said in a low voice to Stella's lover :

Mr. Ponsonby, why don't you give up all
the finery of your wedding, and get it over at
once while Mrs. Branscombe is alive and well
enough to go to it ? Take my advice and
marry the first day you can."

And before Cyril could answer, or had recovered
from his astonishment, she had joined
Stella over the lapigeria, and was lost in amaze-vol.

I. F

ment at the size of the flowers and the brilliancy
of their colouring.

But Cyril mentally said to himself : " What
a thorough woman that is ! What a good-hearted
darling ! " and felt a strange impulse
of friendship to her as the one woman who had
interested herself in his love and Stella's.

Once again the family was assembled in the
drawing-room after dinner as before, to listen
to more lines added to that interminable epic
which grew and grew like a mushroom in the
night, or like that fish in the Arabian tales
which threatened to fill the world with its
appalling immensity. The sacred fire burnt
with terrible fervour at this moment and the
divine afflatus was breathed out in a surprisingly
shrill and prolonged note. And yet, the
other side of contempt being pity, it was almost
pathetic to see the intense satisfaction felt by
the author of this hopeless stuff, and how sincerely
assured he was both of his own genius
and the world's illimitable gain in his works.

They were sitting now in the half-circle of
established custom. Mr. Branscombe was at
the outer edge in the stately, carved armchair
which combined ease with dignity and had the
air of a drawing-room throne. His right hand
fell over the lion's head that formed the finish

of the arm ; his left held the precious manuscript.
His scented locks, black and glossy
with crafty pomades warranted not to dye, only
to preserve, were artfully disposed in well-arranged
layers to hide the tell-tale thinning
tracts ; his pointed beard and well-arranged
moustache were treated with the same care as
his hair ; his evening dress was of faultless
elegance, save perhaps for more jewellery than
was permissible by the strictest canons of taste,
but the gold of his heavy florid chain combine'!
well with that narrow line of purple-blue
beneath his waistcoat which suggested a riband
of merit modestly hidden ; his handsome face,
with its thin, high, razor-edged nose, loosely
curved mobile lips, fine eyes and clear transparent
skin, was as sensitive as it was conscious ;
he looked the ideal of a former Beauty-man
turned poet and artist in his latter maturity 
Adonis aging into a gentleman-like Jupiter 
Alcibiades developing into Plato.

His wife sat next him, in a smaller, less
stately, less throne-like chair. His sense of
fitness was so keen that he would have thought
it a want of delicacy on her part, a something
that savoured of strong-mindedness and conjugal
rebellion, had she taken for her seat a clair
resembling his. She might be queen where he

was king, but she was queen in a minor degree,
standing always on the step below his throne.

Cyril and Stella sat on the sofa, half facing
these two, leaving room for a Florentine marble
table by Mr. Branscombe's side, where he could
place his sheets as he finished them, or refresh
himself with eau sucree a sieur cT orange  a
beverage which greatly pleased him, and which
he recommended to all his friends as a discovery
made by himself alone.

So the time passed. At every four or yq
lines Mr. Branscombe interrupted his reading,
Which was of the sonorous and artificial kind,
that he might appeal to his good Matilda for
]praise and confirmation.

That is a fine example of alliteration, is it
not, Matilda ? " he said, as he broke off in the
middle of a sentence to call her attention to the
epithet, " leafy-fingered Flora, flooding fields
with summer sowing." " I flatter myself this
lias the true Shakespearian ring," he said again
by way of commentary, when he had half sung,
half chanted, these lines :

Can honour dwell in thick-skinned caitiff breasts ?
Or pure refinement where gross usage reigns?"

"Has Keats ever produced an image more
purely Greek and sensuous than this ? " was his

next interruption when he came to a Hymn of
Maidens, sung in strophe and antistrophe to
celebrate the victory of their fellow-countrymen
which victory he described as the dashing of
young eagles against the storm-clouds in 
murky sky, while the maids themselves were
white doves fluttering in the sunshine. How
the dashing of young eagles against the storm-clouds
could do any good by way of dispersion
he omitted to state. Such poetry as his does
not concern itself with the facts of natural
history ; and versified meteorology is notoriously
free from fetters.

It was these interruptions and perpetual
appeals to attention  these incessant bids for
admiration  which made the torture of these
readings to Mrs. Branscombe. Had her husband
been content to read on and on, as some men
do, needing no 'more than the mere appearance
of attention, with sometimes a word of praise
judiciously interjected when a pause naturally
came and it was only common politeness to fill
it, she could have borne it bravely. She could
have thought out her own thoughts, and been
no more disturbed by the monotony of her
husband's voice than by the sough of the wind
among the trees or the falling of the cascade
behind the house. But this perpetual demand,

this ceaseless strain, made the whole thing a
fatiguing exercise, and one which exhausted
lier even more than bodily exertion. And it
was one which habit and custom, instead of
softening, rendered only the more difficult.

Cyril and Stella were not thus appealed to,
and therefore had nothing to bear. They made
the dumb audience of whose sympathies the
poet was sure ; but that good Matilda was the
chorus whose voice must be heard and whose
minor action must run along the line taken by
the actors. Those two silly young people
might listen or not, as they choose, for all the
attention paid to them by Mr. Branscombe. So
long as they behaved themselves with outward
decorum, did not giggle nor whisper nor shuffle
with their feet nor make any kind of stir or
noise, they might talk together by eyes and
little gestures, by happy smiles and mutual
understanding, all in the foolish way of lovers,
and earn no rebuke for unbecoming conduct.
And as they did thus occupy themselves each
would have been hard put to it to say distinctly
what all this monotonous recitation was about ;
though Stella thought that papa looked very
elegant and handsome and superior  that his
white hands were as beautiful as a woman's 
that his face was the most graceful and gentlemanlike

imaginable  and that the whole thing,
from the well-arranged curl on his forehead to
the small, slim foot in blue silk socks and
patent-leather shoes with broad ribbon bows,
resting in a picturesque attitude on the crimson
velvet footstool, was of the highest order of art
that could be seen.

Perhaps Cyril would have preferred a general
conversation ; or better still, that happy garden
where he found his own Paradise and made his
Love's ; and Stella would have followed his
lead had he been able to give it. But of course
this was all naughtiness, and had to be suppressed
even from each other. It was hei
father who was boring him and to whom she
herself was giving only a fragmentary attention
listening with her ears but not with her
heart ; and her father was almost as sacred to
Cyril as to Stella herself.

The three listeners were wonderfully quiet ;
and by a strange chance Mr. Branscombe had
forgotten to interrupt himself or stir up them
for the last run of twenty minutes. The evening
was sweet and still ; the light was gradually
waning. Booming beetles and ghostly miller-moths
flew past the open window across the
fragrant lawn ; bats darted in slender lines of
sudden darkness against the sky ; the owls

began to hoot in the woods ; the last notes of
the birds came in fitful signals sleepily from
among the trees ; a nightingale was giving out
his song ; the stars were just beginning to
shine in the darkening blue where the crescent
moon showed her silver streak ; and the voice
reciting that interminable epic became more
and more monotonous in its artificial strain,
more and more conducive to slumber, like the
rustling of the vint in a corn-field, or the
falling plash of water ; when suddenly Mr.
Branscombe interrupted himself with a short,
sharp jerk.

Why, Matilda, I do believe you are
asleep ! " he cried angrily, in a shrill, high-pitched
voice.

No, dear ! no, I am not ! " she answered,
starting and raising herself. " No, I am not,"
she said again, with a strange expression of
terror and disturbance on her face.

She sat up in her chair and looked round the
room as if she saw nothing of what she looked
at but did see more than was there. With both
hands she pushed the hair off her fiice in a
bewildered way ; gave a deep sigh and
shuddered as she had shuddered once before.
Then she flung up her arms with a piercing
shriek and fell back in her chair  dead ! The

aneurism had done its work, and that sudden,
sharp awakening from her drowsy slumber had
been the last strain which the dilated vessel
would bear. She was dead. Her husband's
poetry had at last killed her.

CHAPTER y.

UNDER THE LASH.

What a pity ! What a thousand pities ! "
said Augusta Latrobe with cumulative sympathy
when she heard the sad news, and how sweet,
kind, patient Mrs. Branscombe had died as she
had Heed, without giving trouble to any one ;
with no parade of circumstance ; quietly effacing
herself to the last. " How I wish she had lived
a little longer ! "

What is the use of wishing in that childish
way ? " replied Mrs. Morshead severely. " She
went when she was called. That was enough
for her ; and ought to be enough for you and
all of us."

*' But if that call had only been put off for a
little while ! " said the graceless widow quite
seriously. " If that poor dear Stella could have
been married before it came ! "

Oh, yes, of course Stella's marriage is what
runs in your head ! " returned the mother with
fierce sarcasm. " That is all you think of  all
that any of you modern young women think of !
Poor dear Mrs. Branscombe might have lived
or died so far as she herself was concerned, and
neither you, nor any one of your kind, would
have cared. So long as that young minx had
got her husband, Mr. and Mrs. Branscombe
both might have died twenty times over, and
not one of you would have thought twice of
them, poor dear souls ! "

I don't think that," said Augusta tranquilly.
But as things are it only makes two sorrows
instead of one. If Stella had been safely
married it would have been so much out of the
fire. And it does no one any good that she
and Cyril Ponsonby should be unhappy."

And you would have them married and
that poor dear woman not cold in her grave
yet ? " said Mrs. Morshead. " Upon my word,
Augusta, you are a nice kind of daughter, I
must say ! A mother is nothing to you, it
seems  only a money-box that you can put your
hand into when you want anything from her,
and care no more about when you have done 1
As for thinking that you owe any duty to a
parent  that you should be loving, obedient,

respectful  oh, no ! we are far too liberal for
such old-fashioned notions nowadays ! It* is
as much as we poor old people can expect if
you young ones allow that we have the right to
live at all. Why don't you get us all out of the
way so that you can do what you like with
what we leave ? "

To he sorry for Mrs. Branscombe's death
does not look as if I did not care for mothers
in general," said Augusta.

Yes, but why are you sorry ? For Stella's
sake, not her own," retorted Mrs. Morshead.

No, for her own," insisted Augusta. " I
was very fond of Mrs. Branscombe  she was so
gentle and sweet-tempered; and she was always
very, very good to me, so I ought to have been
fond of her  and T was."

Perhaps her temper was not tried as some
persons' is," said Mrs. Morshead grimly. ' And
remember, Augusta, it is not so difficult to be
good-tempered with people when you do not see
too much of them ; " she added significantly.
The test is when you live with them, and
learn all their disagreeable ways, and see their
selfishness and heartlessness. Let Mrs. Branscombe
have been tried as some people are, and
I dare say she would have been no better than
her neighbours."

I think she was better than most," returned
her daughter. " Every one knows what an
amiable darling she was. She was a perfects

in extremes, Augusta,
would learn to be more
moderate and sensible ! But you always were
one of the most exaggerating children possible ;
and I see no improvement in you  no sign that
you are getting rid of your silly habit, which is
nothing better than telling stories when you
come to think of it."

Mrs. Morshead spoke angrily, and in her
anger let some stitches drop in her knitting,
which did not tend to improve her temper.

It is a bad habit," said Augusta, who
seldom cared to defend herself; " but one very
difficult to overcome," smiling. "Big words
come so natural to one."

Naturally ! A woman of your age, with a
son to educate, excusing yourself like a silly
girl, because it is ' natural,' " growled Mrs.
Morshead. " You ought to be ashamed of
yourself, Augusta. I am sure it makes me
quite miserable when I think of that poor dear
child, and how he is ruined by the way in
which he is being brought up."

I hope not quite ruined, mamma," said

Augusta cheerfully. " I do my best for him ;
and on the whole he is a very good little man."

' He is a troublesome little monkey, that is
what he is," said Mrs. Morshead crossly. " A
good little man, indeed !  a tiresome little toad
you mean ;  always in some mischief or other !
I met him yesterday in the garden with a
beautiful large geranium in his hand. And
now, Augusta, you will please to understand  I
will not have that boy pick my flowers. Once
for all  and I will not give you a second
warning  if ever I find him with another
garden flower, he shall not go near the beds
again. He shall not break and destroy everything
as he does, as if he were lord and master
forsooth. Not in my lifetime, Augusta !
When I am dead and gone you can do what
you like  dance on my grave if you like  as I
dare say you will. I don't expect much else
from you. But while I am alive I am mistress;
and I will not be trampled under foot by an
undutiful girl and her noisy, impudent, troublesome
little boy ! I have seen too much of that
kind of thing in others to submit to it myself.
So I tell you in time."

I am sorry if Tony picked the flowers,"
said Augusta. " He has strict orders not to do
so, and I have never known him disobey."

Then how did he get that geranium
yesterday I should like to know ? " said Mrs.
Morshead sharply. " Did it pick itself and put
itself into his hand ? I suppose that is what
you will be saying next."

" He told me he found it lying on the Long
Walk. Perhaps Page dropped it when he was
bringing in the flowers for the table," said
Augusta.

He told a falsehood," returned Mrs. Mors-head
sharply. " Page never lets the flowers
fall. And now he shall be punished for two
faults instead of one."

Augusta said no more. She never encouraged
a discussion of any kind on her little son, whom
she kept out of his grandmother's sight as much
as possible. It was the only thing to do ;
though for doing it she was of course blamed
by her mother, as she would have been had she
done the contrary. The terrible old woman
had been a harsh mother even to her own child;
to her grandchild she was simply cruel ; though
the little fellow was as good as the traditional
gold of the nursery simile. Yet had he been a
boy-angel come down from heaven she would
have fallen foul of him for some fault evolved
out of her own hard temper and spirit of
opposition. It was for nothing wrong or even

wilful that she rated him as she did. If quiet,
she said it made her nervous to see a little
fellow like that so unnaturally still, and she
was sure he had water on the brain and was
growing idiotic  or that he was sulky and
deserved a whipping to get the black dog off
his back. If lively and a little restless, after
the manner of his age, she sent him out of the
room with a rebuke for making too much noise
perhaps the verbal rebuke was translated into
manual action, which effectually damped his
childish gaiety and changed his merry laugh to
bitter sobs. It was impossible for him to do
right ; for his very existence was the offence.
Was he not the son of that disgraceful Professor
Latrobe ?  that penniless physicist who had
married Augusta Morshead without making a
settlement and had died without leaving her an
income ! And when Mrs. Morshead thought of
this she wondered at her own goodness in
receiving back to The Laurels at all her undutiful
daughter and this living witness of her
fault.

This marriage with a poor man who had
been unable to provide for her, was the gigantic
grievance of a life that had been one long chord
of grievances  variation succeeding to variation,
but the main theme  the wickedness of the

world, and the ill conduct of all and sundry to
herself  ever the same. Had Professor Latrobe
been alive and wealthy Mrs. Morshead would
have found some other peg on which to hang
the pall of her dissatisfaction ; as he was dead,
and as he had died poor, she was spared the
trouble of going farther ; and the widow and
the child had the benefit of her bitterness and
complaining.

And I will not have him brought up in
these extravagant habits of yours'' continued
Mrs. Morshead, after a pause. " Considering
that you have not a penny of your own,
Augusta, and have to come to me for everything
you want, I must say you are dreadfully extravagant,
and might be more considerate.
You never think of what things cost, and just
squander away the money as if it were so much
water or sand."

' I am very sorry, mamma, but I really did
think I had been careful," said Augusta, who
was, in truth, a marvel of economical resource
and thriftiness.

Careful ! and there is that boy of yours in
his best clothes to-day gone off to play with
that little Turk, Nora Pennefather ! You call
that being careful, do you ? I do not. A
pretty mess he will be in when he comes back

VOL. I. G

from that house, the most untidy, disorderly
place in all Highwood ! How you can let him
associate with that horrid little girl I cannot
think ! "

Why you see, mamma, Nora is the only
child of Tony's age in the place ; and it is good
for him to have a playmate sometimes," said
Augusta.

" Not such a forward little hussy as that ! "
retorted Mrs. Morshead. " Better be a nice
well-conducted little fellow without playmates
than go rampaging and racketing about with
Nora Pennefather. The state he will be in
when he comes home  all covered with jam or
torn to tatters. I know ! Where is the money
to come from to support all this recklessness ?
It will end in my having to give up this place ;
I foresee that ; and you might as well dig my
grave at once as ask me to give up The Laurels !
But I have not Fortunatus's purse, and I cannot
do everything."

His everyday clothes are really too shabby
to be worn outside the garden," said Augusta.
I have mended and patched till I can mend
and patch no more ; and your grandson should
be decent for your sake, you see," she added
with a pretty smile and playful half-caressing
accent.

'' My grandson, indeed ! A pretty grandson
you have given  a beggar's child," grumbled
the old woman.

"And now that we are talking of Tony's
wardrobe, shall I go to Graham's and order a
new suit for him ? " continued Augusta, speaking
as if she had not heard her mother's last
words, speaking indeed as if it were quite easy
to ask for what she wanted, and just as certain
that she would get it when she had asked for
it. " He really is getting too disreputable ! "
she went on to say, her manner tranquil, however
perturbed might be her feeling ; " and as
his best suit is not over-fresh as it is, it will
soon be worn out if he takes it into daily use,
as he must very soon. Children knock their
clothes out so frightfully ! "

'' Then he should be taught not to ' knock
them out so frightfully,' " said Mrs. Morshead
in reply. " That is just where I blame you,
Augusta. You never teach him anything,
never check, nor contradict, nor correct him
from one day's end to the other. You let him
do just as he likes  scamper all over the house,
helter-skelter like a wild colt  run wild about
the place  pull the flowers  tear his clothes 
tell falsehoods  do just as he likes, as if he
were a savage. And I have to bear the brunt

and pay for all his mischief. And yet I am not
allowed a voice in the matter. My goodness !
you should have seen the way in which we
were brought up! As if we dared to have
disputed our mother's will, as you and that boy
of yours dispute mine ! "

Dear mamma  I only wish to please you,"
said Augusta sweetly.

Please me ! " she grumbled. " It is an odd
way you take, Augusta. For my part I do
not know what the world is coming to. You
young people and your children are just appalling.
That is what you are."

I am sorry you think I am doing badly by
my child and you," said Augusta, a slight
twitch about her lips though her voice was
quite smooth and gentle. " But we have not
settled about the clothes yet. Shall I order
him a new suit at Graham's ? "

No," said Mrs. Morshead sharply. " I will
see to it myself. You are not to be trusted
with anything, Augusta. Make out your list
and let me look over it. If I do not keep an
eye on you, goodness knows what folly you
may not commit. I might as well have twa
children to look after," she added, twitching the
knitted woollen shawl over her shoulders with
an impatient pull. "I have everything to do;

and you might be such a help to me if you
would ! "

'' I would help you, mamma, gladly, if you
would let me"' said her daughter.

Yex me by your incapacity and ruin me
by your extravagance, you mean," was the
ungracious response. "" I wish I could trust
to you ; but how can I  such a light-minded
feather-head as you are ? Tell me what you
want for that boy of yours, if indeed you know
yourself what it is. Oh ! "' as her daughter
brought out a written list from her work-basket
; " you have got it all cut and dried
have you ? Upon my word, Augusta, you
have coolness enough for a dozen ! That I
w411 say of you. However, give it to me and
let me see what you have had the conscience
to put down."

Augusta rose from her place and came over
to her mother, with the list of poor Tony's
necessaries in her hand. The terrible old
woman took the paper, readjusted her spectacles
and read it, sotto voce, to herself. It was a
very modest list  the least that could possibly
be done with ; but Mrs. Morshead read each
insignificant item as if it were a Question of
nuggets and white elephants.

Her daughter continued her work of embroidering

a silk jacket with bugles as quietly
as if her heart had not sunk and her courage
had not died. Of all the pains included in
her dependent position, this of asking her
mother for clothes for her child was perhaps
the worst to bear.

At last Mrs. Morshead, looking over her
spectacles and holding out the paper diagonally,
came to the point.

How can you be so absurd, Augusta, as to
make out such a ridiculous list as that?" she
said crossly. " Do you want the poor child to
look like the beggar he is ? Not while I have
a sixpence to spend on his comfort and respectability
! A black and white check for his
best ! It is an insult to me to propose such
a thing. He shall have a velvet ; and the
black and white may do for every day. I
cannot have him go about the world in the
disgraceful state you think good enough for
him. He is my grandson ; and if you do not
care for his appearance, I do."

You are very good, mamma," said Augusta
affectionately. " I am sure I am most grateful
to you."

Good ? Of course I am good ! Whoever
thought I was not ! " snapped the mother. " A
great deal too good to you, such a tiresome.

Undutiful girl as you are ; and so I tell you.
But I will not have you say that I do not do
my duty by your poor little boy. Poor fellow !
He has only me to look to ; and he shall not
be neglected as you would be quite willing to
neglect him, if I did not look after him."

Augusta made no answer. With the sweetest
manner and the most unruffled sweetness of
temper, she had a wonderful way of sticking
to her point and dropping all side issues. She
had accomplished her main purpose of the
moment, and secured a new supply of clothes
for her son ; and whether her mother took the
tone of the child's protector against her neglect,
or whether she had, which was just as likely,
given her a severe scolding for extravagance,
it was much the same to Augusta. The grant
of the new supply was the bread ; the manner
in which it was made was the bitter sauce
wherewiththat bread had to be eaten. Still,
the former was the essential fact, the latter
only an adventitious circumstance ; and while
grateful for the one she must pass over the
other as unimportant. Yet, oh ! how ardently
she wished that she could find her bread in any
other cornfield than this thorny one of home !
that she could ensure her son's fortune by
any other course than this of submission to her

mother's tyranny and contempt ! But until
some other haven of refuge presented itself 
would it ever ?  she was bound to this, stony,
inhospitable, grudging, as it was. And her
only wisdom was to make the best of that
which she could not mend and must perforce
endure.

The conversation went no further on uncomfortable
ways for the present ; for soon after
Mrs. Morshead had flung her last poisoned little
shaft the servant announced " Mr. Kemp," and
not even the terrible old woman was quite
equal to the task of scolding her daughter asher
greeting to a visitor. She contented herself
therefore with an angry kind of grunt, asa
tall, grave, quiet-mannered but pleasant-looking
man came into the room and strode
across the floor with the bearing of a soldier
and the look of a king.

CHAPTER YI.

LIGHT And SHADOW.

Looking first at Augusta with a slight smile
of pleasure round his mouth and a certain
gladness in his eyes, Sandro Kemp, the artist,
formally greeted Mrs. Morshead before he spoke
to her daughter, as it was but good breeding
to do. But he greeted her as one to whom she
was no bugbear, terrible as she might be to
others ; one who neither courted nor feared
her, and who knew how to hold his own
without interfering with her rights or suffering
her to go beyond her own lawful boundaries
and into his domain. The very core of Sandro
Kemp's character was that grave and manly
kind of dignity which neither takes liberties
nor allows them  that proud humility coupled
with self-respect which makes a man acknowledge
the shortcomings of his position in the

world while conscious of his own intrinsic
worth  that large kind of disdain for, yet submission
to, social barriers and conventional
hindrances which marks one who understands
the higher laws of life but who will not impose
his own convictions on another  that steadfastness
to his own side and toleration for the
side opposed to him, which proclaim the true
liberal and the man with an educated conscience.
Even his enemies  and he had
enemies like others  were forced to admit that
he was neither intolerant nor selfish ; though
such as Mrs. Morshead said that was only
because he was latitudinarian for the one part
and wanted to make friends with the Mammon
of Unrighteousness for the other. For all that,
when they took it in hand to circulate stories
to his discredit, they had first to invent them.

There were not wanting some in Highwood
with this faculty for creating fancy biographies ;
and Sandro had his full share of their unroofed
flowers of imagination. He was unmarried,
handsome, poor, a favourite with women,
and of that plastic profession which gives a
gentleman no standing of itself but is honourable
or mean according to proficiency and
emolument. Hence he was a fair target for the
spears of the idle and the jealous ; and among

those who liked him least, and who were most
anxious to find the weak places in his armour
wherein to thrust their lance-heads, was the
terrible old woman who held sway at The
Laurels.

Sandro Kemp was indeed no favourite with
Mrs. Morshead. He was only an architect ;
only an artist ; a man who gave lessons when
he could find pupils ; who drew pictures for
his amusement and designed houses for his
daily bread ; and Mrs. Morshead was always
wanting to know what kind of profession that
was for a man who called himself a gentleman
? And he was poor. He lived in lodgings
because he was not able to afford a house ;
and he was unmarried because he was not able
to afford a wife, unless he could find one
with money who would be silly enough to
stoop to his condition. He paid his way
honestly and punctually  so much must be
admitted ; " but what a way it was ! " Mrs.
Morshead used to say with disdain when she
discussed Mr. Kemp's personal history, as she
was prone to do  no one knew exactly why,
for it was one which gave her no pleasure to
contemplate. Especially was she prone to discuss
him with Augusta, and always with
strange acrimony, as if seeking to indemnify

herself for the restraint put on her by the
irresistible dignity of his presence.

"Sandy Kemp," as she was fond of calling
him, in derision for the somewhat affected name
which had been imposed on him by a dilettante
godfather, who coated the pill with a golden
promise that he did not keep  " Sandy Kemp"
might have committed some crime in the dark
days of his obscure past for the doubt rising
into certainty which she expressed of his character,
and the dislike for his person which she
always hinted had its full justification if only
she might tell all she knew. " Sandy Kemp "
was bold, and knew neither his place nor his
betters, and some day she would tell him so.
He should remember who he was, and how his
position was one strictly of sufferance  architects
and artists and queer people of that kind,
not being gentlefolks like those who owned
houses and lands and whose forefathers were
lying decently in the churchyard, with mural
tablets on the church walls to commemorate
their names, dates and ages. And therefore, if
Sandy Kemp " had the good fortune to betaken
notice of by those who were gentlefolks,
he ought to remember that it was only out of
benevolence, not because of his own merits.
Sandy Kemp " was first a Radical and probably

a Freethinker, then a declared Communist
and a professed Atheist, according to the ascending
scale of her displeasure. And " Sandy
Kemp " did not know his own mother tongue ;
for in a speech made at the school feast he said
that he was " averse from " something or other ;
and who that understands the English language
says " averse from," Mrs. Morshead would like
to know ?  an ignorant fellow like this setting
himself up to speak and teach ! It was enough
to make the dead turn in their graves !

Though she tried hard, Mrs. Morshead could
never induce Augusta to take up the cudgels
in the artist's defence. Poor Augusta had
enough to do with her own affairs and Tony's.
She did not want more on her hands than she
had already. When her mother was more than
usually rabid concerning this one of her many
betes noires, she would try to turn the conversation
into some other channel ; which always
had the effect of making Mrs. Morshead more
angry than before, and of concentrating her
bitterness on herself Still, she carefully refrained
from defending any one whom her
mother chose to attack  Sandro Kemp or any
other. And the sense of drawing blank given
by her imperturbable quietness made the terrible
old woman more terrible still for want of attrition

and a safety-valve. Just as the dentition
of certain animals requires something which
they can tear and gnaw, so did Mrs. Morshead's
temper demand some one with whom she could
quarrel. If Augusta would have gratified her
in this, and would every now and then have
had a wordy wrangle, perhaps things would
have been better in the end, and she would
have gained by the process. The air would
have been cleared ; the old woman would have
got rid of some of her chronic ill-temper in
fierce epithets and unjust accusations ; she
would have gratified her vanity by her cleverness
in vituperation ; and then the inevitable
reaction would have set in and things would
have gone better  until the next accumulation
of moral thunder-clouds was dispersed by an
explosion.

This possibility never entered into the calculations
of that sweet-tempered, self-restrained
and reasonable creature, her daughter. It
seemed to Augusta the best policy to make
herself round because her mother was angular,
and to oppose smoothness to her spiky irritability
so that both should not move on the
same hard lines together, but that one might
slip while the other struck. Acting on these
principles she carefully abstained from taking

up the glove so continually thrown down on
Mr. Kemp's account ; letting everything pass as
blandly as if venomous insinuations were
friendly praises and bitter accusations kindly
confessions of interest and respect  which had
the effect of making Mrs. Morshead still more
inimical to the artist, and of late more disagreeable
to, and somewhat suspicious of, her
daughter. So that now when Sandro came
into the room, and greeted her with the conventional
: " How do you do, Mrs. Morshead ? "
she gave a curious kind of a grunt rather than
an answer, as she offered him two hard, inhospitable
fingers, which she twitched out of his
with an impatient jerk almost before he had
taken them. But Sandro only thought within
himself: "This terrible old creature is in worse
form than usual, to-day," looking anxiously to
Augusta to see if any signs of trouble were
visible on that fair, smooth, placid face. There
were none. The young widow had learned not
only to control herself but also her muscles ;
and she could make her face, when she chose,
no more expressive than so much sweet and
mindless wax work. And this was what she
made it now in answer to the artist's eyes.

I suppose you have heard the painful
news ? " said Sandro, after he had been seated

for a short time and had discussed the weather
and the prospects of the harvest, foreign politics
and home legislation, the bills which had to be
passed and those which had been abandoned,
for Mrs. Morshead was a politician inter alia,
and liked to air her theories. Those theories
were always diametrically opposed to Mr.
Kemp's ideas ; of that he was very certain,
whatever he might say. The terrible old
woman would not have agreed with him had
he echoed her own sentiments ; and she set her
heel on every independent assertion as if it had
been a personal affront intended for her and to
be resented accordingly.

*you mean Mrs. Branscombe?" she answered.
" Yes, of course, we have heard it.
There are always plenty of ravens in the world
to come about you with their croaking and
dead worms and things. No fear of not hearing
of one's friends' death and ruin! What
I should like to see would be a little more
alacrity in letting me hear good news ! "

She said this with a manner that seemed to
accuse Sandro Kemp of Mrs. Branscombe's
death ; at the same time insinuating that he
had no end of good things under his cloak,
which he refrained from bringing out because
of the inbred perversity and wickedness of
his nature.

Augusta's delicate cheeks became a trifle
deeper in tint.

That poor Stella, how she will feel it ! '' she
said hurriedly.

They ought to have been prepared ; it was
their own fault if they were not' returned her
mother grimly. " They knew that she had
heart disease, and might be taken at any
moment."

But no one is prepared for the sudden death
of one loved," said Sandro gently. " Love
refuses to be influenced by anv mere fact of
mental knowledge."

Oh, I am not clever enough for metaphysics,"
said Mrs. Morshead with a sneer.
I only know that we die when our hour has
come, and that we ought to be prepared. All
this extravagant grief is just rebellion against
God's goodness ; and no sentimentality can
make anything else of it."

I was not aware that there was any extravagant
grief at Eose Hill," said Sandro
quietly. " And do you call the recognition of
the emotions sentimentality, Mrs. Morshead ?
We cannot speak of humanity without taking
them into account."

I call everything sentimentality that sets
itself against honest common sense," said Mrs.

VOL. I. H

Morshead ; " and everything Atheism that questions
the plain will of God," she added significantly.


That may be, but no one was advocating
either the one or the other," said Sandro. " We
were only talking of the shock that Mrs. Branscombe's
sudden death must have been to them
all at Rose Hill ; and especially to poor Miss
Branscombe who loved her mother so dearly."

'* As to that I dare say she will manage to
get over her shock in a very short time," said
Mrs. Morshead with a vicious glance at Augusta.
Girls do not care, nowadays, so much for their
mothers as to break their hearts when they go.
A good riddance some would say  some not a
hundred miles from here ! "

Would they ? I do not know these young-ladies,"
answered Sandro. " And at all events
Miss Branscombe is not one of them."

Miss Branscombe is no better than other
modern young misses. She has her lover ; and
what do you think she cares for a mother dead
or alive in comparison with that ? " said Mrs.
Morshead. "Mothers are only made for their
children's convenience, according to the horrible
doctrines of the present day. Children owe
nothing to their parents  no love, no duty, no
obedience  nothing ! They live just for themselves

and their own pleasures ; for nothing else
in the world ; and that is modern daughter -
lines ! I wonder it does not bring down a
judgment from heaven, I declare I do ! "

Are we quite so bad as this, mamma ? I
don't think you really believe it !" said Augusta
lightly, trying to give a brighter tone to the
conversation.

Mrs. Morshead looked up from under her
heavy frowning brows.

I do not think you need ask," she said with
sullen emphasis.

'' No," said Sandro Kemp with perfect gravity
and sweetness ; " indeed Mrs. Latrobe need not.
Every one knows her marvellous amiability and
how superior she is both as a daughter and a
mother. She is the bright example of the
whole neighbourhood  a standard for all others
to live by and come up to if they can."

I wish them joy," said Mrs. Morshead,
twitching her shawl, while Augusta laughed
in her bright careless way ; but those two pink
spots on her cheeks burned somewhat uncomfortably.
*' It is as well to have a standard,
certainly," she continued lifting her lip, and
showing her two eye-teeth as a dog shows his
fangs when he snarls.

They could not have a better," said Sandro,

something burning on his cheeks too and passing,
despite himself, into his eyes.

When and where did you take your lessons
in flattery, Mr. Kemp ? " asked Mrs. Morshead,
with a quick, suspicious glance from the artist's
somewhat too eloquent face to her daughter's
serene, impassive, unmoved, save for that
slightly-heightened colour. " Have you been
to Ireland, may I ask ? "

'' And kissed the blarney stone ? " he added
with a smile. " No ; nor have I had any
lessons that I can remember. Perhaps, though,
my mother gave them to me, when she used to
tell me to look for the good in life rather than
the bad, and never to be afraid of recognizing
beauty and virtue when I saw them."

To my way of thinking, truth stands first
of all things," said Mrs. Morshead. "Beauty
and virtue are all very well when you find
them ; but I should like to know where you do."

Often," said Sandro emphatically ; " far
more often than not; so that my principle of
admiring what is lovely is identical with yours
of confessing the truth before all things."

The two are identical in Stella Branscombe ;
and so they were in poor dear Mrs. Branscombe,"
said Augusta.

How much she longed to change this second

current of talk ! Yet into whatever channel
she might divert it, there was always the same
danger of collision and disagreement.

Mrs. Branscombe could not have been a
very nice woman in reality to have ever married
that contemptible old fribble," said Mrs. Mors-head.
" Of all the men I have ever known I
think he is the most contemptible ; and I ha'e
known some that came very near him." Here
she looked at Sandro. " Still, he is about the
worst, take him for all in all."

Yours is a wide net, Mrs. Morshead," said
Sandro. " At least, Mr. Branscombe does no
one any harm ; and if he has aspirations and
ideas beyond his power of adequate expression,
it is his misfortune rather than his fault."

"It is only his vanity that makes him
attempt more than he can do," said Mrs. Mors-head.
" I am sure those ridiculous bits of poetry,
that he prints in gold on glazed cards and sends
about to all the neighbourhood, make one ill
to read them, such horrid stuff as they are ! I
am a plain woman, Mr. Kemp, and speak plain
English  which every one does not do."

Yanity, or the need of occupation ? Yanity,
or the honest belief that he has done well, and
that he gives his neighbours pleasure in reading
and hearing what he has done ? We must have

some interest in life ; and it is better to have
one of a harmless kind, even though the execution
be weak, than to spend one's time in idleness
and gossip," said the artist.

He has his home and his family, his estate
and all the parish business that he ought to do,
and does not. If he chose, he might have interest
and occupation enough without writing bad
poetry and painting worse pictures," snapped
Mrs. Morshead.

He would still have some unoccupied time
on his hands," said the artist. " We men cannot
employ oar spare hours in doing the dainty
patchwork which comes so naturally to you
ladies."

He looked at Augusta's length of silk with
its traceries of bugles and beads.

Then let him do some good with his time'*
said Mrs. Morshead. " We have poverty and
ignorance enough among us  let him help these
and leave his silly trash that he calls art alone !
Art, indeed ! Art is a bad business for a man
when it is his profession and he has to get his
bread by it ; but when it does not do even this
it is worse than child's play."

Talking of art, Mrs. Latrobe, have you read
the review of the Academy in the last week's
Saturday ?  it is the best that I have seen for a

long time. I should like to know who wrote it.
Whoever did, knew what he was about."

As he said this Sandro turned to Augusta
with an imprudent sigh of relief. The sour
temper and jangling contradictiousness of her
mother had never tried him so much as they did
to-day, and he had never pitied that sweet,
fair woman so much as now when he thought
of her hourly subjection to this hard domestic
martyrdom.

Are you praised in it, Mr. Kemp ? " asked
Mrs. Morshead with an unpleasant laugh.

Yes, I have read it," answered Augusta
hastily, her words breaking through her
mother's. " It seemed wonderfully well done ;
very just so far as I could make out, and very
appreciative." i

Oh, these things are all managed behind
backs ! " interrupted Mrs. Morshead. " Caw
me, caw thee ; that is the rule. That review
was bought and paid for by every man who was
praised in it. I would stake my life on it ! "

And I would stake mine that you are
wrong," said the artist a little warmly. " Do
you allow no honesty in the world, Mrs. Mors-head
? "

As much as I can see through a microscope
no more," was the bitter reply.

' Ah, well, I do not agree with you," he said.
I believe in men and women as the best things
we know, and I should be sorry to hold the
pessimist doctrines which are so fashionable just
now."

And what may you please to mean by your
pessimist doctrines ' ? " asked Mrs. Morshead,
throwing a satirical emphasis on the words.
I am a plain, old-fashioned woman and have
not learnt your modern jargon."

Do you remember an old paper in the
Spectator or the Tatler I forget which ? " said
Sandro ; " a paper where a parallel description
is given of two women, Arachne, and Melissa ?
Arachne is the pessimist there ; and pessimism
means simply a belief in the sinfulness and
wretchedness of humanity rather than in its
goodness and aspiration ; a delight in finding
out the blemishes everywhere rather than indwelling
on the beauties ; making ourselves unhappy
in the shadow but not rejoicing in the
sunlight ; seeing the evil all around and denying
the good. That is pessimism ; and that is
the fashionable philosophy of our day. To me
it is morbid, sickly, untrue, and infinitely
disastrous to the character of those who hold it
and to the truth of things as they are."

It is certainly a very suicidal kind of

doctrine," said Augusta, as her contribution of
rose-leaves. " It is so far more pleasant, as
well as more charitable, to think well and not ill
of people."

Just for one instant she lifted her eyes to the
artist's face and looked at him as if in self-forgetfulness,
her eyes full of sweetness and admiration.
Then she let them fall on her work ;
and again that faint colour, which was her most
marked sign of feeling, stole over her face and
neck like the reflection of a rosy cloud cast on
the snow.

He also changed colour as he looked at her
with as much inquiry as earnestness. His eyes
seemed to ask hers what was true, and what was
only the appearance of things ? Then he passed
his hand over his beard, according to a way he
had, and checked a sicrh as a man turning from
a lovely picture which he could not hope to
possess  from the vision of some sweet peaceful
valley which he must not enter  turning back
to the bare prose of his naked home, to the
barren desolation of his toilsome way.

Fools' paradises ! " sneered Mrs. Morshead.
believe in men and women when the best
friend you have will buy and sell you for sixpence,
and your very children are not to be
trusted ?  Rubbish, Mr. Kemp ! and you know

that yoii are talking rubbish ! I prefer the
truth."

'' The whole contention is in what is the
truth," said Sandro, passing over the accusation
as if he had not heard it. " No one wants to
hug himself in pleasant falsehoods ; but we must
never forget that there is just as much chance
of untruth in disbelief as in credulity. The two
things are the mere doubles of each other."

And I say they are not," said Mrs. Morshead
angrily. " And at my time of life I ought to
know."

Well ! we shall never agree in our ideas of
humanity and goodness," said Sandro rising to
take leave. '' We must be content to differ."

I don't call having my own opinion on
things differing from yours," said Mrs. Mors-head
rudely. " To differ there must be some
kind of equality, and I don't see much equality
between you and me, Mr. Kemp."

No ? " he said smiling. " Does not my
man's wider experience in life make up, somewhat,
for the greater length of yours ? "

Your man's wider experience as you call it
may not perhaps have taught you the same
things as mine has taught me," said Mrs. Mors-head
dryly. " And I am not used to be compared
to a young man like yourself, Mr. Kemp,

young enough to be my son and without a stake
in the country as we old proprietors have.
When you compare yourself next time let it be
with your equals ! "

I meant no offence to you, Mrs. Morshead,"
said the artist quietly.

Then you should look before you leap, and
think before you speak," she answered sharply ;
and remember next time to whom you speak
when you address a lady of my age and station ! "
A most disagreeable pragmatical forward fellow,"
she said angrily to her daughter when
Sandro had gone ; '' and I wish to goodness he
would not come here as he does. What does he
want I wonder ? The spoons ? or is he wanting
to borrow money of me ? I hate his coming ashe
does with his long words and pedantic way of
talking  argue, argue, argue, till one is almost
dazed and stupefied. One cannot say a thing
but he takes it up and makes some long nonsense
about it. He is just the most unpleasant and
conceited man in the place. His very name is
enough to set one against him. Sandro Kemp 1
Why not honest Sandy at once ? The affectation
of that Italian is revolting."

But that is not his fault exactly," said
Augusta, when her mother stopped and looked
to her for an answer. " He was christened

Sandro, you know ; he did not give himself the
name."

Then he ought to change it," snapped
Mrs. Morshead, all alive with indignation.
And listen to me, Augusta, I am not going to
have you defend that impudent fellow. A
young woman like you ought to be more modest
than this. What business is it of yours whether
he was christened Sandro or not ? Such forwardness
! What next I wonder ? "

As Augusta did not say what was to tread on
the heels of her present iniquity, the conversation
dropped, and for half an hour the peace of
silence reigned between them.

Meanwhile, Sandro Kemp, walking back to
his lodgings, asked himself again and again this
one ever recurring and unanswerable question ;
* Did she mean it ? did she mean it ? "

CHAPTER Iii.

IMPOSSIBILITIES.

It was the day after poor Mrs. Branscombe's
funeral. The ceremonial had been of that
gloomy magnificence which is supposed to
relieve the hearts and assuage the sorrow of the
bereaved and to show proper respect to the
unconscious dead. No expense had been spared
to make the whole thing a local fete draped
in black and silver ; and Mr. Branscombe's
manifestations of mourning had all been as
perfectly ordered and as artistically arranged as
were the decorations of his house and the appointments
of his studio.

The neighbours far and wide had been invited
to join their tepid tears and transitory
sorrow with the sacred grief of the desolate
widower and his motherless girl  to make-believe
that the death of sweet and placid Mrs.

Branscombe was a true tragedy in their lives,
for which they put on spiritual mourning as
well as the husbands and scarves proper to the
occasion. But it gratified Mr. Branscombe to
see this large array of friendly mourners ; and
it gratified him still more to be able to pose
before them as the heart-broken but still
dignified and gentlemanlike victim of fate and
sorrow. He translated into his voice and bearing
on this day of woe, the old spirit of the
aforetime Finery Fred, the lady-killer who
"used to study before his glass the looks and
postures which he thought would be most
convincing, and who trained his voice to the
passionate accents and deep pathetic tones by
which he hoped to carry the last lingering
strongholds of doubt and fear ;  of Finery Fred,
the Beauty-man of his regiment, who went in
for the leadership in taste and elegance and the
-' right thing to do," and whose highest
ambition was to be a superior kind of M. C,
and regimental Lord Chamberlain.

Sad as this occasion was, it was nevertheless
one which called forth all his power. Wherefore
he organized for his good Matilda the
details of a funeral fit for a royal Princess, and
laid in their quiet churchyard with overwhelming
pomp the dead body of one who had lived

but for lier home and family and whose whole
existence had been passed in modesty and self-efficient.
And the neighbours came as they
were bidden ; and many of them laughed at the
widower with his artistic despair, and said
' What a mountebank that fellow was ; and
would anything ever teach him truth or simplicity
! "

Still, the more intimate friends were really
sorry for the loss of this gentle life from among
them. There were some to whom she had been
as an enduring exhortation to gentleness and
love ; and some to whom she had been as a
faint and precious perfume, reminding them of
the best days of their innocent youth and of
spiritual graces perhaps long forgotten and laid
aside. And to others she had been of more
active help by her few words of wise counsel,
by the crystal purity of her thoughts, and by
that ready sympathy with their difficulties,
either of mind or circumstance, which is perhaps
the greatest help of all because having the
most soothing influence.

Among those who mourned her with the
sense of personal loss, Augusta Latrobe was
foremost and the most sincere. She had lost
not only a wise and real friend in Mrs. Branscombe,
but her only confidante. To her alone

had she ever dared to oj)eii her heart, to reveal
her sorrows, to show the weight of the cross
which she carried. By her death the young
widow was made friendless, in the vital sense
of friendship ; and henceforth she must be
sufficient for herself. It was a terrible loss for
her ; and to-day, when the air was stiller than
usual after the sombre excitement of yesterday,
she felt the blank that had come into her life
more painfully than she had yet realized.

It was long since she had mourned as she
was mourning now as she walked by the riverside
 her little son now running before her,
now loitering behind  her little son who made
up the sole sunshine of her life, her only store
of happiness and love ! The song of the birds
the sound of the rushing waters, the sweet
scents of meadow and copse and hedgerow
which came round her like a cloud as she
strolled onwards, scarce seeing where she went
  the life and gaiety, the good health and
beauty of her boy  all this was only dimly perceptible
to her mind ; while the loneliness of her
life, the hard hand of her mother, the dreary
necessities of her position, the crushing tyranny
of the home in which she must perforce take
shelter, the loss of her best and dearest friend,
her only counsellor and confidante, were the

prominent feelings of the moment and the
terrible facts of her real existence.

If only I could do something that would
give me a home of my own and not hurt my
hoy's future ! " she thought for the hundredth
time since her husband's death. '' If only poor
Antonio had lived until the boy had grownup
! " she thought again.

It was characteristic of Augusta that she
made her son's welfare of more importance than
her own loss in the death of her husband ; with
whom, however, she had lived in profound
peace and concord  of itself happiness enough
after the perpetual jangle of her mother's house.
And indeed though she had not loved her
shy, reserved, queer-mannered and odd-looking
Professor as she knew that she could love had
she the fitting chance, she had respected him
very thoroughly and never let him feel that
want of which she herself was conscious. Her
sweetness and suavity had done all that love
could have done, and had made him even
happier than Qiore passionate demonstrations
would have made him. She was just the kind
of wife that he wanted ; and his marriage
fulfilled its intention with the most perfect
smoothness. Among all her memories no
shadow of remorse ever intruded its ghastly

VOL. I. I

presence. She could not reproach herself with
undutifulness *or cruelty, with neglect of her
husband's wishes or indifference to his happiness,
nor feel aught but that she had made his last
years blessed beyond any he had lived before.
It had been a very pleasant, mild and rational
kind of friendship. He had loved her more
than he knew how to show or had had time to
fathom ; and she had not loved him at all. But
she had made him happy all the same ; which
was the one thing needful.

Still, her heart was virgin and she had all
the shy desires and timid dreams of one whose
wealth of love has not yet been given. Only
those who are conscious of their power of loving
are conscious of the void ; and she knew but
too well what she had missed and what she had
never felt. If it were possible ! If she could !
She knew what would make her life one long
summer's day of blessedness :  a grave but kind
and gentle man, strong, just, resolute, tender ;
a man who understood life and could see all
round a subject ; who was observant for the one
part and thoughtful for the other ; who would
love her, but not blindly, so that he should help
her to be her best self and would not, for the
weakness which belongs to some men's love,
foster her follies ; a man who would be her

superior and yet her lover, her king and yet
her knight.

And thinking all this, letting her thoughts
drift idly on the rainbow spanning the sky of
hope, she came full on Sandro Kemp, leaning
against the bole of an elm tree, making a study
of the rocks which just at this part broke the
swift current of the river into a dozen small
cascades.

Both ' started  Sandro so visibly that the
thing confessed itself, but Augusta with a
recovery so quick, so facile, as to hide her first
confusion before it was seen. This sudden
translation of her dreams into a personality
shocked rather than confused her. And if her
cheeks had that delicate pink flush which
became her so well  the day was warm ; the
wood in which they found themselves was a
little stifling despite the fresher breeze brought
by the river ; she had been running with her
child ; and she was naturally startled by coming
on Mr. Kemp so suddenly  he standing there
like the statue in Don Giovanni, she said with
her frank laugh that seemed to clear the air and
make wholesome sunshine round her as she
stood.

Yet Sandro would have been more content if
she had not laughed in that clear, light, bright

way ; if she had blushed more and stood with
more consciousness of embarrassment and strain ;
if she had been less like her usual wise and self-controlled
self and more like the normal shy
and maybe silly school girl.

Having stumbled on him in this way, it was
the most natural thing in the world that the
widow should stay and look at the artist's work ;
and, having looked at it and praised the force
here, the tenderness and subtlety there, it was
also the most natural thing in the world that
she should turn over with him the pages of his
sketch-book and hear the history of this crocket
and that finial  where he found this quaint
fifteenth-century gable, and where this thirteenth-century,
massive, square and nameless tower.
These things came into his professional work ;
while sketching rocks was only his pastime to
be taken up between whiles, when business was
slack, as alas ! it generally was.

He had good hopes now, however, of making
his name and showing what he could do, he
said. Had he put his meaning into the ordinary
words of the unsuccessful, he would have said 
of turning the corner which he had been so long
in rounding. And when he told her of this
hope of permanent fame, he showed her a rough
sketch of his design for a stately palace about to

be built not far from Higliwoocl by a millionaire
from Cottonopolis. He had sent in this
design with other competitors and hoped he
should be the winner. If he were, the corner
would indeed be turned and the smooth, straight
road of fortune, fame and success fully entered
on !

Oh ! you must get it ! " said Augusta
quite simply, but warmly too  perhaps warmly
because simply. "This is so fine that I am
sure you cannot be distanced by any other
competitor. What a grand design it is ! I
have never seen anything more perfect, more
beautiful ! "

And I have never received more precious
praise," said the artist in a slightly tremulous
voice, looking right into her eyes.

Augusta's face, which had been sincere,
animated and sympathetic, took on itself that
mask of mindless amiable wax which she could
assume whenever she pleased.

I am glad if my praise pleases you'' she
said ; " but," laughing, " you must remember
that I am quite ignorant of art and that I may
admire what is really all wrong."

If you admire at all, that is enough forme,"
said Sandro with dangerous fervour.

Augusta raised her eyes. She did not look

straight into her companion's face, but just a
little below his mouth.

Surely not," she said quite gravely. " Your
object is to succeed with the authorities, not to
be praised by private friends."

By some, not all. The commendation of
some would be all-sufficient for me."

I should prefer the fame and the money for
my own part," she answered with an exasperating,
prosaic, unsympathetic hardness, as unlike
her warmer self as night is unlike the day.

Sandro looked at her half-puzzled, half-pained.

The day is warm," he then said ; " and this
place is so lovely ! Will you not sit here fora
little while ? We can watch your boy that
he does not get into mischief ; and see ! this
fallen tree makes an admirable seat."

The widow hesitated for just half a moment,
then a certain resolute look stole like a film of
ice over her soft eyes ; her mouth grew hard
and her lips were drawn together ; her graceful,
supple figure seemed to stiffen, and she looked
like one who has suddenly taken a difficult
resolve and who means to keep it.

Yes," she said ; " I will sit down for a little
while. You can play about, Tony," she called
out to the child ; " but do not go too near the
water."

** Oh, that is fun ! " said the boy, as he
scampered ofi"  rejoicing in his freedom and forgetting
the sorrowful lessons of his life at home
and the sour hard visage of the grandmother
who always rated and never caressed, always
blamed and never praised.

He is a noble-looking boy," said Sandro.
You may be congratulated on having such
a son."

Like many of his tribe he was passionately
fond of children, and, like Robert Southey,
thought no home perfect that had not a kitten
and a "- child rising two " among its inmates.

He is a dear little man," answered Tony's
mother fondly ; '* and he gives very little trouble.
He is high-spirited and all that, but he is so
affectionate that I can guide him by a word.
He rebels against scolding, and injustice makes
him naughty ; but he yields easily to kindness
and fair dealing."

Love is the best trainer for a child, just as
affection is his best conscience," said Sandro.
'' Weakness, vacillation, want of fixed principles
of action and all forms of injustice spoil children
as rust spoils steel ; but healthy love  never !
Love spoils no one," he added, again looking at
his companion with meaning.

No, it does not," she answered, as tranquilly

as if she had been talking of the weather
or the state of the roads. Then, seeing that he
seemed to wait for something more expect than
this cut and dried assent, she added : " But it is
just the thing we have to learn to live without.
We cannot all be loved."

"Why not ? " he asked eagerly. " Surely
there is no one in the world who might not beloved
if he  or she  would accept what was
offered. You yourself "

Oh ! I am out of the question altogether,"
she interrupted, laughing lightly. " I have
my mother to attend to and my darling boy to
live for. When I said that we had to do without
love, I meant many of us, not myself. I
have all I can have  or care for."

All you care for ? Do you never think of
making a new home for yourself  building up
the shattered temple of your life ? "

With new decorations ? " she answered
brusquely. " Never ! "

Sandro turned pale and looked again at the
soy.

Yet he would be better for a man's care,"
he said very gently.

She sighed softly, and the ice that had come
into her eyes seemed suddenly to melt into
something that looked like tears.

Yes. I grant that' lie answered in a low
voice. ' But I must do the best I can for him
by myself. It would be impossible for me to
marry again unless "

She stopped.

*' Unless what ? " he asked, bending down his
head as if to hear her answer more distinctly,
and again looking full and fixedly into her face.
He shifted his hand uneasily, and she knew
that he checked the impulse to take hers.

Well ! unless I married one so rich as to
ensure my boy's future should my mother disinherit
him and me  as she would were I to
marry again."

Augusta Latrobe spoke with the greatest
apparent ease and frankness. The pink flush
had fixed itself into burning red on her cheeks ;
her eyes Avere hard ; her lips curiously dry.
But save these small indications of strain, her
air and voice and manner and expression were
all as careless and undisturbed as even Mrs.
Morshead could have desired.

You see I am a very mercenary commonplace
kind of person," she went on to say, not
looking at Sandro but gazing straight before
her across the river in the most untroubled and
the frankest way imaginable. And yet  the
flower held in her hand wavered so much that

she laid it on her lap, and the beating of her
heart was so quick and strong it shook the
fringe of her cape as if the wind had blown it.
And, being commonplace, I do not deceive
myself; and I never allow myself to dream,"
she continued in a matter-of-fact manner that
cut into Sandro's very soul. Yet why should
it ? ''I have to stay with my mother for the
sake of my boy  stay with hers as I am now,
for as long as she lives. Or, if I leave her, I
must have my child's fortune assured. I could
not wreck his future for my own present happiness.
I must not. So you see I have no
temptation to marry again ; which simplifies
my life so far."

Sandro did not speak. That something which
comes into the throats of men and strangles
their words had come into his, and he had to
wait until he had mastered himself and his
voice. He wondered why she had said this
to him. Had she seen ? and did she wish to
warn him in time so as to spare him the
humiliation of a refusal? Or was it just the
natural outcome of her candour and simplicity ?
And was her quietness real or assumed?  the
expression of serene indifference or the effort
made by pride and will over a woman's weakness
and a woman's desire ? He had thought

well ! no matter what ! Her words were
plain and to the point, and thoughts and dreams
go for nothing in the face of a direction so distinct.
He must accept things as they were.
An image might be broken but the shrine
remained intact, and none could prevent his
carrying his worship in secret where he might
not make his devotions in public.

And you never feel the want of a friend ? "
he asked after a long silence, during which she
still looked across the river at the landscape
beyond, her lips set into that hard fixed smile
which expresses anything rather than joy or
pleasure.

He did not look at her when he spoke, and
his voice was low, rough and husky.

The smile passed from her lios and she ceased
to gaze at that rich pasture-land before her.

A friend ? yes, indeed ; I do feel the want
of a friend," she said quickly. " Heaven only
knows how much ! how much, indeed, now that
the only friend I had, sweet Mrs. Branscombe,
is gone! But that, too, is not in my possibilities,"
she added, as if taking herself again
in hand. " You see my mother is old and
difficult, and she would not allow me to have
a close friendship with any one, man or woman.
I have to walk warily to keep even so much
liberty as I have now."

'but you said just now that Mrs. Brans-combe
was your friend," lie returned jealously.

One more intimate than frequent," she
answered. " I did not see her often ; but when
I did she was everything to me."

And you cannot replace her ? "

No."

Yet others would be to you all that she
was," he said.

*' It cannot be. My mother would not allow
it," she answered.

What a life ! What a life ! " he said indignantly.


It cannot be helped," she answered. " It
is for my boy."

And I can be of no good to you ? " he asked
with a sudden outburst of feeling. " Can [
bring you no happiness ? Cannot I lighten
your burden by ever so little ? You might do
so much for me  you do already  can I do
anything for you ? "

You are always good to me  always," she
answered. " But you can be of no vital use tome,
nor can I be of real good to sou," she
added with meaning.

'' Not as a simple friend ? " he asked.

No, not even as simple friend," she replied.
 There is no use in denying what all the world

knows already that my mother has an uncertain
temper, and that it is rather hard to live with
her. Nothing but the most complete self-control,
as well as the most careful attention to her
wishes and avoidance of all that she dislikes,
would help me through at all ; and nothing but
the knowledge that it is for my boy's future
would make me endure it. So for I will speak
frankly. But I am simply on sufferance ; and I
have no more power at home than if I were a
paid companion  and indeed not quite so much,
for then at least I should have the power of
leaving. I dare not ask any one to come and
see me  not you, nor Stella Branscombe, nor
old Colonel Moneypenny "  " I am glad she
calls him old," thought Sandro  " nor Hortensia
Lyon ; in fact no one. I am of course always
glad to see you  or Stella, or any one'' she
added hurriedly, as a check on the sudden
brightness that flashed into his face ; " but I
should not be glad to see any of you often, for
that would made my life more uncomfortable
than it is already and would react in greater
harshness on my boy. So that you see," she
said, and now she looked at him frankly ; " I am
just as unable to have a friend who would be of
real use to me  a friend in any true intimacy 
whether man or woman, as to have a husband."

But this miserable existence  this awful
slavery  who but you could bear it ! " he cried.
'' You can, because you are an angel  the one
perfect woman of creation ! "

Because I am a cold-blooded calculator," she
answered lightly ; " and pride myself on my
common sense and reasonableness. There is
only one of two things to be done in life, Mr.
Kemp," she added, turning to him with a strange
air of confidence  had he been vain he would
have given it a warmer name ; " Break or Bear.
What we cannot bear with patience let us break
with resolution ; but when we cannot do this
and must endure, what folly to make things
worse by fretting and repining ! Six years ago
I broke my bonds, as you know ; but I had to
come back to them again, and under harder
terms. Now I cannot break them again, save
under conditions which do not present themselves
; so I have made up my mind to bear
them, if they last my whole lifetime. There is
nothing else to be done ; don't you see that ? "

I see that you are the noblest woman
living," he answered in a suffocated voice; " and
that poverty is a greater curse than I have ever
felt it before. If it had not been for that miserable
old godfather of mine I should have been
rich, like my brothers  given a profession that

would have ensured me an income, and left
equal with the rest by my father's will. My
whole life has been sacrificed to a lying promise
a delusive hope ! And now for the first time
I know its full bitterness  the real meaning of
the curse ! "

Let that pass'' she answered quickly. " You
cannot alter your position any more than I can
alter mine ; and you too must bear with the
dignity of patience what hurts and galls you in
your life  as also must I. Te are friends in
fact, though we cannot say so to the world.
Besides, why should we ? " she said, taking back
her light and careless manner. ' There is no
such solemn compact in two people liking to
talk to each other when they chance to meet,
and on the whole feeling more esteem and sympathy
for each other than not. This is the sum
total of our friendship  not a very formidable
affair, when we think of it ! "

*' More than this," he pleaded.

No more. This is all," she returned.

You can give me no more than this ? You
would give as much to a mere acquaintance."

I can have only mere acquaintances," she
answered. " I have told you that my mother
will not allow me to have more."

Not even a friend, such I would be  humble,

sincere, devoted, asking only the privilege of
serving you and of being sometimes useful, and
always faithful ? "

He spoke as if his very life depended on her
answer. With the natural contradiction of
human nature, the clearer her path, the firmer
her decision, the more reluctant he was to follow
the one or accept the other.

Again the widow looked across the brawling
river to the green and quiet pastures beyond.
Her soft face took a half dreaming, half yearning,
look, and her grey eyes were dark and
tender. Then with an effort she seemed to
come back to herself, to reality, to resolution, to
strength.

Impossible ! " she said firmly. "Such a
friendship would be my ideal of life, my all of
happiness ; but it is utterly and entirely impossible
! Never let us speak of it again. It would
be cruel on your part and weak on mine. We
know where we stand ; and anything else, as I
have said, is impossible." Rising, she called
out to the child : " Come, my Tony, we must
be going home, my little man. It is your teatime."


And is this the last time I shall ever see
you alone ? " asked Sandro feverishly.

"That depends on accident," she answered

with well-feigned tranquillity. " We do not
often stumble over each other like this  do we?"

If I knew your habits  when and where it
was most likely to meet you ! " he returned.

She looked at him a little reproachfully.

"To be soon the talk of High wood ? " she
said. " No. When things have to be done, the
only rational way is to do them thoroughly.
I have given myself to my child and I must
think only of what is best for him. To have
it said that his mother was a flirting widow
who walked abroad with gentlemen, would
never do ! And you would be sorry to be the
cause of this."

Unless " he began.

She stopped him with her eyes, they were so
calm and clear and icy.

There can be no unless," she said quietly.
*' I have my duty marked out for me, and my
path is too clearly traced to miss, except by
wilful wrong-doing. I have to live for my boy ;
to do what is best for his future and to forego
all that might be pleasant to me if it should be
hurtful to him. Do you not see this ? Yes.
I know that you do. So good-bye."

She held out her hand. To judge by her
manner only, this interview had told him nothing,
and these last words had cost her no effort.

VOL. I. ' K

Good-bye," said Sandro, not so steadily as
she had spoken. Then he added impulsively :
*' Let me give you this sketch. It will be a
little memento of our talk to-day ; and this talk
has fixed the boundaries of my life."

Yes ; give it me," she answered.

As she spoke she drew her veil over her face
and turned away her head. When she turned
back again the gauze was wet, but she said in a
light, hard, mocking tone :

A study of rocks suits me exactly ! You
know the contempt I have for softness and
sentimentality and how I prize strength and
self-control ! Good-bye ! "

Once more their hands met but not their eyes.
The widow was looking at her boy, that set smile
again on her lips ; and Sandro, looking at her
almost as one looks at a dear face dead, felt as if
she had suddenly left his world and had gone
to some other sphere where he could not follow
her and might not reclaim her to his own.

Good-bye," he said mournfully ; " and God
bless you. If ever you want me you know
where I stand, and how much you can rely
on me ! "

Come, my little man ! " said the widow in a
strained unnatural voice. " Wish Mr. Kemp
good-bye, and come home to tea."

Ask Mr. Kemp to come too," said the
child.

She laughed in a harsh odd way.

That would never do ! " she said. ' Goodnight
! " she added as she hurried away before
the artist could speak.

When well out of sight she suddenly stopped
and kneeling on the ground took the child in
her arms, kissing him with feverish fervour.

'' Tell me that you love me, Tony ! " she said,
holding him to her.

' I love you," repeated the boy, patting her
face. ' Dear, sweet, pretty mamma, I love you
so much  but, oh, mamma, pretty mamma, you
are crying ! What are you crying for ? Has
Mr. Kemp hurt you ? Let me go back and beat
him."

No," she said, mastering herself with an
effort ; " Mr. Kemp has not hurt me and I am
not crying now, Tony. See ! I am quite well
again, and nothing is the matter," she added,
laughing spasmodically. " And now let us run
a race, and see who will get to that gate the
first!"

CHAPTER Viii.

HIS BETTER CHANCES.

Meanwhile Sandro Kemp went back to his old
old attitude and occupation  leaning against
the bole of the elm-tree while sketching the
rocks, covered above watermark with flowers
and tender seedlings, by which the calmer
sweep of the river was broken into those thousand
tossed and troublous cascades. It was an
emblem of his life, he said to himself ; and he
did well to fix the lines which should remind
him of his broken hopes, his tranquillity and
peace destroyed for ever; all because of that
sweet, fair woman whom he loved so well, and,
as she had made him understand, so hopelessly.
He knew now his fate ; unless, indeed, a
greater share of success should come to him
than he dared to hope. Yet if his wildest
dreams should indeed be realized !  if that
palace for the cotton-lord should be given him ?

and that other great chance, that grand
cathedral for which he was now planning and
studying and striving ? Well ! he should then
be famous, and on the high-road to wealth as
the result. But would it not still be wealth of
that uncertain kind which depends on the life
of the breadwinner ? And would Augusta
change the certainty of her inheritance for the
mere chances of one man's life ?

Were she alone in the world, and had she
not already made trial of the same kind of
thing  then he might hope and believe ; but
with her little son, and after what she had said,
it seemed, indeed, impossible ! If her husband,
the Professor, had lived long enough to perfect
his great work, he too would have been wealthy
and world-renowned ; but he died before he had
proved his theory, before he had consolidated
his fame and by that consolidation turned it
into enduring cash ; and who could tell but
that the same fate should not overtake himself?
Still, he would not be craven although he was
hopeless. He would work as steadily for her
friendly approbation and for his own self-respect
as if he might still have hoped for her
love and its rich reward. The sunshine had
gone out of his life, but he would not whimper
because it was prematurely night.

All the same, he felt as if he had suddenly
lost his way somehow ; as if his life had fallen
asunder and he had to reconstruct it out of the
fragments ; as if something had died and someone
had left him ; and as if the spur which had
pricked forward his ambition had become blunt
and useless.

He made his sketch however, with the conscientious
care characteristic of all his work 
yet how sombre in tone and low in key, how
mournful in spirit that pictured story of the
rocks !  and then he put up his materials and
went slowly back to the little cottage where he
had made his home.

It was only a six-roomed cottage, but it
was one of the prettiest little places in the
neighbourhood. Set on a slight eminence, it
commanded a view of the whole rich valley,
with the winding river that ran so rapidly to
the sea  that sea itself ruling the horizon with
a narrow line of shining silver  while to the
back the wild and picturesque fell-country was
rounded off as by a frame by the blue heights
of the distant mountains. The small town of
Highwood lay clustered in the hollow ; and the
houses of the gentry, each standing in its islet
of green, whether of park, of garden, or of leafy
wood, broke up the monotony of the pasture-lands

which were the chief wealth of the vale.
The garden of this little cottage  Fernacres, as
it was called  was famous for its roses, its carnations,
its pansies, and its early fruit and
vegetables. Both Sandro and his landlord 
James Prinsep, the schoolmaster  spent a great
deal of their spare time in this little plot of
ground ; and the result was more than satisfactory.
Fernacres was ahead of even the
grandest places in the valley ; and the finest
flowers grown in the open air, as well as the
first dish of peas, of strawberries, and of new
potatoes, were sure to come from this sunny
little slope.

Mrs. Prinsep had been a lady's maid at Eose
Hill  Jane Durnsford's predecessor ; and she
had added to a naturally gentle and refined
nature the lessons in grace and moral culture
given her by contact with Mrs. Branscombe.
She was one of the true ladies of womanhood :
and lady enough not to be ashamed of domestic
work. Hence she kept the place in the most
exquisite cleanliness and order ; she cooked to
perfection ; and she made her lodger as happy
as any poor bachelor whose thoughts are running
on the unattainable, can be. It was altogether
the most modest kind of home that could
be imagined for a man in the prime of life ; but

it suited Sandro Kemp when he first entered
on it ; and he had gone on with it longer than
he originally intended because of those grey
eyes and fair hair, that soft face, sweet voice
and strange combination of gentleness and will
which sometimes he was able to see, either at
The Laurels, or elsewhere.

As he came home now from his sketching
expedition by the river, Mrs. Prinsep, watching
for him from the window of her own little
parlour  that which corresponded to his, on
the other side of the door  noticed how pale
he looked and how heavily he walked.

He studies too much," said the kindly
woman with a sigh.

Those boards and queer implements  T
squares, compasses and the like  those flimsy
sheets of yellowish and transparent paper, with
their black and red lines, their squares and
hieroglyphics  those wonderful pictures of
houses and churches and nondescript buildings,
with scales of measurement and more hieroglyphics
underneath were sore trials to her
patience as a housekeeper and to her sympathies
as a woman. She longed to dust that
writing-table against the window where Sandro
kept this professional litter ; but this was the
one sacred space which no profane hand must

invade ; and the poor woman was forced to let
alone all those smeared little saucers of red and
black and blue  all those messed plates and
dust-covered sheets of paper and parchment ;  -
contenting herself with supplying clean tumblers
of fresh water and sometimes going the length
of dusting about the free corners.

If this were a trial to her housewifely pride
of order her lodger's habits and hours touched
her womanly sympathies quite as much. Over
and over again, hours and hours after she and
her husband had gone to bed, she had heard
Sandro's footfall on the stairs, and had struck
a light to see the hour. Two, three, and even
past three it had been  and he hard at work all
that time with his houses and churches ! Xo
wonder that he looked pale at times ; or that at
times he was so silent and sad she had half a mind
to ask him what ailed him. He was just killing
himself with overwork ; and apparently to not
much good. He was as poor now as he was
when he first came there. Though he paid her
punctually and did not owe a penny in the
town, her fine woman's wet told her that he
had not sixpence to spare from the bare necessaries
of life ; and to toil as he did, early and
late, for no good, was what she could scarcely
call good sense :  though it was Mr. Kemp

who did it; and, save her own James, Mr.
Kemp was to her mind the best man that ever
lived and the most of a gentleman. Mr. Branscombe
was as fine as if he were a prince ; and
their dear good rector, in whose house she had
also lived  her first place as nurse-girl  was
the best clergyman that could be; but Mr.
Kemp had something in him better than either.
She did not know what it was exactly, she only
felt it ; and as he had no mother to see to his
things, and no sister to live with him as his
companion, Mrs. Prinsep thought herself consecrated
to the task of taking care of him. And
she fulfilled her self-imposed mission as few
would have done.

I am afraid your dinner will be a little
spoilt, Mr. Kemp," she said, coming to meet
him in the narrow slip that stood for a hall.

I know that I am late," he answered with
a pleasant smile ; " so I cannot blame you, Mrs.
Prinsep."

And there is a letter for you from Eose
Hill," continued the schoolmaster's wife. " Mr.
Branscombe's own man brought it and seemed
put out that you were not at home. He said
he was told to bring back an answer."

Where is the letter ? " asked Sandro not
very eagerly.

He had liked Mrs. Branscombe sincerely and
lie admired and liked Stella ; but Mr. Branscombe
was as antipathetic to him as the traditional
oil to vinegar ; and though he had
defended him when Mrs. Morshead had fallen
foul of him, chiefly because of his innate dislike
to censure and harsh criticism, yet he took care
to keep out of his way as much as he could,
and to make his intercourse with Eose Hill one
of the rare events of his life. It was a surprise
to him then that Mr. Branscombe should have
written to him ; and he wondered what he
could possibly have to say. Nevertheless he
was not specially eager to know ; and even
when Mrs. Prinsep handed him the letter he
laid it aside unopened until he should have
finished his dinner. But before he had got
half-way through his cold beef and salad, the
little gate of the garden swung open and the
Eose Hill livery of black and silver came up
the narrow walk in earnest of the dilettante's
impatience.

Mr. Branscombe has sent for an answer,
sir, to his letter," said Mrs. Prinsep, coming'
into the room.

By George ! I had forgotten all about it
and have not opened it yet," said the artist,
tearing at the envelope  which was black-bordered

to such a depth as to leave scarcely
room for the address. He found inside the
sketch of a monument in vile perspective and
worse taste ; with a letter from Mr. Branscombe,
begging him to undertake this small
commission, and put into workable form the
crude ideas hastily jotted down on the enclosure.
If Mr. Kemp would do Mr. Branscombe
the favour of coming to see him at Rose
Hill, say, this evening  or tomorrow morning,
if that would suit him better  they might be
able to confer together on the mournful subject
of this communication and perhaps come to an
understanding more quickly than they could do
by letter.

To which Mr. Sandro Kemp returned for
answer a short note, written in the third personas
Mr. Branscombe's had been, saying that he
would do himself the pleasure of waiting on
him this evening.

'' I will not give him my best working-hours
in the morning," he said to himself; "and I
am too much out of trim to-night to do any
good at home ; else that Cathedral ought not
to stand even for this. Still it will be pleasant
to design something good and beautiful for
the dear woman. And Augusta Latrobe will
see it."

After which he continued his dinner, the
vision of a simple, touching and well-composed
monument gradually clearing itself in his mind
in direct opposition to the florid and meretricious
composition, all of cherubs' heads and
angels with trumps and inverted torches, of
broken columns wreathed with flowers and
crowns and crosses at the base, which represented
Mr. Branscombe's idea of a fitting:
memorial to his good Matilda so 'sorrowfully
departed this life."

We shall disagree, of course," said the
artist again to himself. " But unless he will
give me carte blanche I will not undertake the
thing at all. I will not put my brains into
such stuff as this, to make it in any way workable
! " he added, with a second contemptuous
glance at the sketch enclosed. " Xot a line
right ; not an idea that has not been worked
to death ; and the whole thing just one heterogeneous
jumble of horrors ! "

As he said this, aloud this time, the garden-gate
swung back for the second time and the
postman came to the door. They had a double
post at Highwood, and the evening letters were
often the most important of the day. Mrs.
Prinsep brought in two. One was large and
official, the other was in an unknown hand ;

"but the post-mark was the London S.W., where
his eldest brother Heed.

He opened the first, knowing that in it was
contained his fate so far as the cotton-lord's
palace was concerned. For a moment he held
his breath and Mrs. Prinsep, taking away the
dinner-things, could not help noticing that he
turned deadly pale. Then the colour came
back in a flood on his face, and his brightest
smile flashed over it like sunlight, as he lifted
up his eyes to Mrs. Prinsep watching him
so tenderly, and for need of some one to share
his gladness called out : " Well, Mrs. Prinsep,
you are to keep me for a little while longer
yet ! I have that house at Hillside to build ! "

I am glad of that, sir," she answered
smiling. " I should be sorry to lose you now
that you have been with us so long. And it
is a good thing for you too, is it not, sir ? "

Yes ; " he said with a happy, boyish laugh.
* It is a very good thing, Mrs. Prinsep. I shall
have to give you that silk gown I promised
you. What did we say it was to be  blue or
green ?

No, no, Mr. Kemp ! You are to do nothing
of the kind," she said, also laughing for
sympathy. She checked herself in an instant.
Her dear former mistress  her ever good and

generous friend  had been buried only yesterday
; and this was not the time for what her
Scotch aunt would have called " chaffing."

And I shall not wear colours for a year to
come," she added gravely. " Mrs, Branscombe
was one of my greatest losses."

Then it shall be black silk' said Sandro,
also gravely ; " and you are a good, truehearted,
affectionate creature."

After this he opened his second letter, and
found it to be from his brother's housekeeper 
the three Kemp men were unmarried  saying
that her master was ill but that he was not
to be alarmed ; not much was the matter, and
if he got worse she would let Mr. Sandro know.
He had had an accident in the park ; had been
thrown from his horse which had rolled on him
and hurt his chest ; but though he could not
write, because his arm was powerless, and
though he was in bed, there was not much
amiss ; and Mr. Sandro should hear regularly
and need not be uneasy.

" Poor old fellow ! " said Sandro, as he read
the letter. " I hope he is not much hurt. I
wish he had not said so pointedly that I need
not bother. I should have so much liked to
have seen him. It would not have cost much
to have run up to town. But he always means

what lie says, and I should only annoy him if
I went."

And with this he crushed the letter into his
pocket and, taking his hat, set out for Eose
Hill and the inevitable fight over Mr. Branscombe's
" crude ideas."

In this fight Sandro came off victorious. To
be sure, he had to be very careful, very cautious,
very gentle in his work of demolition ; and,
while holding fast by the matter of his design,
to be wary in his method. For it was a rather
hard task, all things considered, to have to tell
a wealthy man, intensely vain of his own
artistic skill, that his work was all wrong from
first to last  the design bad, the drawing
worse, the whole thing inadmissible and impracticable
 and yet not affront susceptibilities
which were wounded as easily as a mimosa-plant
is made to droop. But Sandro did it.
He had that rare mixture of gentleness and
frankness which can speak unwelcome truths
without offending those who have to hear
them ; and as Mr. Branscombe had sense
enough to understand what was good when
he saw it, and as Sandro's hasty sketch made
in the studio while the two were conferring,
had in it the manifest germ of a grand idea
and a great success, he allowed himself to be

over-persuaded, and to leave the thing in the
more competent hands of the professional artist.

But he indemnified himself for his displacement
by saying to Stella and Cyril, when he
showed them Sandro's rapid sketch :

We worked out this between us. Mr.
Kemp confessed that my original idea was the
grander and more luxuriant conception, but
there were certain technical difficulties in the
working which made it scarcely feasible. This
he considered to be more practicable ; and I
own I like my second idea almost as well as
my first."

I like it better, sir," said Cyril.

"So do I, papa," said Stella  the poor
innocents !

On which Mr. Branscombe answered a little
peevishly :

I cannot say much for your taste, my dear
Stella  as for you, Cyril, I know that you have
no more artist in you than a log. The
original idea was infinitely the better of the
two, and, as I explained to you, was abandoned
solely because of certain technical difficulties in
the working out."

Whatever you do, papa, is beautiful," said
Stella, going up to him and kissing him.
How I wish that mamma could have seen it ! "

VOL. I. L

she added naively, tears coming into her eyes
at the mention of her mother's name.

'* She will ; and she will know that she is
honoured," said Mr. Branscombe pompously.

The phrase jarred on Cyril strangely and
involuntarily he uttered an exclamation which
meant a disclaimer both of the sentiment and
the manner of uttering it.

What an odd thing to say ! " he thought.
That father-in-law of mine has certainly some
queer corners in his mind. He is as unlike
my Stella and her beloved mother as if he were
of another race ; and I am glad that my Stella
is more her mother's child than his."

On his side, Mr. Branscombe, who had heard
that '' Oh ! " thought  for so elegant a man a
little savagely : " You have very nearly come
to the end of your tether, young man ; and
this inconvenient farce has to be hissed off the
boards ! "

CHAPTER IX.

HER FATHER.

It had to be done. Therefore, argued Mr.
Branscombe, it were well that it should be done
at once and while his daughter's heart was
more plastic even than usual through grief at
her mother's death  that death which was justa
week old to-day, closed by the gorgeous
funeral which had given the neighbourhood its
solemn fete the day before yesterday.

The moment was favourable and the hour
had come. Cyril had ridden over to the county
town on a planned errand, simulating
business at the bank " for Mr. Branscombe.
Thus he was safely disposed of for the afternoon.
His absence would enable his prospective
father-in-law to lay down the lines of the future
without fear of interruption ; and Mr. Branscombe
knew that Stella Avould keep to those lines
when he had once made it clear to her that

they represented his will. He counted on her
filial fidelity, cost what it might, and that she
would make her action coincident with his
desire, subservient to his advantage, even at
her own loss and martyrdom. Among the
multiform chances of life his daughter's rebellion
to his command, or indifference to his wishes,
was the last which the mind of Mr. Branscombe
could entertain.

He foresaw that Cyril would be more difficult
to manage ; but, with Stella on his side, the
young fellow's force of resistance would be
reduced to a minimum. If a farce has to be
hissed off the boards, he thought, looking at
himself in the glass and sadly noting the crow's
feet about his eyes, of what good the actors'
refusal to budge ? They must go ; the public
will not hear them.

And in this matter I am the public," said
Mr. Branscombe aloud ; " and this undesirable
engagement is the farce that has to be hissed ofi"
the stage of my life. Stella is too useful to me
now to be parted with ; and India is an unhealthy
climate. I am doing my duty to her
as well as to myself; and in time she will
recognize this and thank me."

On which he lowered the blind so as to make
a mournful and subdued light in the room ; put

himself into a becoming attitude of grief and
dejection ; rang the bell with plaintive softness ;
and, when the man came asked him quite deferentially
to desire Miss Branscombe to come to him
for a moment if she had the time to spare. It
was all the " business " of the actor at the
side-scenes, preparing himself for his entrance.

Ah ! my good child ! my dear Stella ! " he
said with a caressing accent and affectionate
gesture, as the girl came into the room at his
summons, her face pale for her sad thoughts on
this, the first terrible week-day commemoration
of her mother's death  her slender figure
looking almost shrunken in her plain, unornamented
black  her whole air one of unutterable
sorrow and the evidence of loss.

She went up to him and put her arms round
his neck, as she laid her cheek tenderly on his
forehead.

Dear, darling papa!" she said with fervour ;
but her tears fell over his upturned face as she
spoke, and Mr. Branscombe thought to himself
" Her state of mind is perfect ! I have
already conquered all the difficulties."

Take a chair, my love, and come and sit
near me," he said, pressing her hand in recognition
of her caress. " I have much to say to
you."

She looked at him with somewhat of a startled
look. What could he have to say to her,
prefaced in this strangely solemn manner ?

Nothing to which you will not agree," he
said reassuringly, answering her startled look.

"No, I am sure of that," returned Stella
fondly  more fondly even than usual, her father
Representing to her now not only himself but
also her beloved mother.

Indeed, who would not agree with that
adored being, so good and noble and gifted
and superior altogether as he was ? Certainly
not Stella his idolizing daughter brought up in
the faith of his perfectness as she had been, and
a firm believer in the quasi divinity to which
her life had been subordinate and her mother's
sacrificed.

We have been terribly and rudely shaken,
my child," began Mr. Branscombe, looking upto
the ceiling. " We have sustained a loss to
which, my Stella, words can give neither expression
nor dimension,"

Indeed, yes," said Stella simply, her tears
still falling softly down her face. " Life will
never be the same now without poor mamma.
We have lost the best part of it."

"I have lost more than the best part of
mine," said her father mournfully. " I have

lost all that soothed my sorrows and made my
many sufferings endurable ; and now I have
only my little daughter left to me  the Star of
my Home, my Stella."

*' Dearest papa ! " said the girl, looking at
him fondly, yet wondering in her own mind
what were those sorrows, those sufferings, to
which he so darkly alluded. " I cannot supply
mamma's place with you," she went on to say,
speaking with extreme tenderness ; " but you
know how much I love you. Do you not ? "

I hope it. I believe it. Were it not so, I
should have nothing more for which to live 
for you and I. my Stella, stand now alone in
this cold, cruel world. Hand in hand we stand
together  we two alone  the desolate widower,
the motherless daughter."

And Cyril with us, papa," said Stella.

Cyril ? Aye, Cyril ! But Cyril is not of
our blood, my little girl. Cyril has not lost
what we have lost," said her father with a
certain fine disdain that seemed to mean
intensity of love for the poor, dear dead wife
and mother rather than any want of faith in,
or appreciation of. the boy himself. " Cyril is
a Ponsonby, not a Branscombe," he continued.
We two Branscombes stand alone, as I have
said ; and we must comfort one another."

Yes, papa, indeed I will do all I can to
comfort you," said Stella, taking his tone and
wide of bis meaning.

I knew that ! I knew that, my good
child," he answered, as one allowing himself to
be soothed by loving assurance. " The spirit
of your sainted mother lives in you. I knew
that I could count on my child."

So you can on Cryil, quite as much as on
me," said Stella, faithful to her two vital affections
and still blind as to her father's real
meaning.

Cyril is eliminated from our great affliction,
my dear," was his grave reply. " We must do
without Cyril in our mutual sorrowful consolations."


We cannot do without Cyril, papa," said
Stella.

Her father might as well have said that she
and Cyril were to do without him.

I think we shall have to learn that difficult
lesson," was his reply, made quite quietly 
without any accent of sarcasm, any show of
aggressiveness  as if he were saying the most
ordinary thing in the world and not what to
Stella sounded the most extraordinary, the most
impossible. " I think we shall have to do without
Cyril, both you and I," he repeated with
elegant persistence.

How can we ? " said Stella wonderingly.
He belongs to us now. He is one of ns."

"Not quite one of us just yet," her father
answered dryly. " Unless, indeed, you have
been married, my dear, unknown to me."

Papa, what a dreadful thing to say ! " interpolated
Stella, profoundly shocked.

As such an hypothesis is inadmissible," he
continued quietly ; " you cannot prove in anyway
that Cyril is one of us, or that he belongs
to us. A mere fiance is not one of the family
ill esse, he is only a potential member, a circumstance
ill posse, and can still be relegated to
that open space which lies beyond the house
door. Is it not so ? "

I do not quite understand what you mean,
darling," said Stella softly.

No ? Yet I think I speak plainly, my love.
Have you never heard of an engagement
between two young people being broken off,
my innocent little girl ? Are all betrothals
necessarily consolidated by a marriage ? "

'' Papa, what do you mean ? " cried Stella,
looking at him with as much wonder as dismay.
You cannot mean that I am to give up Cyril ?
that I am not to marry him ? Oh, dear,
dear, papa !  good, noble-hearted, beloved papa,
say that I am mistaken, and that you do not

mean this ! I cannot believe it I Say that I
am mistaken ! "

She rose from her chair, her face wild with
terror, her hands clasped nervously before her,
her usually melodious voice now sharpened by
fear and flung up into almost a scream of
pain.

Mr. Branscombe shuddered and covered his
face in his hands.

Oh, my head ! my head ! " he cried in a
voice of suffering. " My child, how can you
be so cruel as to ask me to bear all the torture
of this loud excitement, this undisciplined
passion ! My nerves cannot endure it ! Is it
not enough that I have lost the tenderest wife
that ever breathed  the most beloved partner
of my bosom, and cherished companion in my
studies and pursuits,  but must you, my
daughter, turn the knife in my wound and
agonize me afresh by this terrible display of
uncontrolled excitement ! I, who love all that
is gentle and low-voiced and subdued in a
woman, to have a daughter who raves like a
maniac  and she the daughter of the gentlest
soul that ever breathed, the most precious saint
that ever lived on earth in human form !
Monstrous, oh monstrous ! most monstrous and
unnatural ! " he said in the voice in which he

was wont to recite his metrical version of
Shakespeare's King Lear.

Forgive me, dear papa," said Stella, down
at his feet ; "I did not mean to hurt you. You
know that I would not give you a moment's
pain if I could help it. I did not mean to be
passionate or wild, but Cyril  my own Cyril 
I cannot give up Cyril ! How wicked I am to
pain you, darling papa  but my poor Cyril !
Oh, beloved papa, what can I do for you  and
my own Cyril too ! "

It was pitiable to see the way in which the
poor loyal heart was torn and racked between
these two great loves  how the faithful soul
was tossed between these two great central
fears, that of paining her father by disobedience,
and that of breaking Cyril's heart by giving
him up as her lover. Turn which way she
would she saw only anguish and dismay and
disloyalty to one or the other of the two who
were as dear to her as life itself. And it had
come on her so suddenly ! It had been the
thunderbolt out of a clear sky, falling without
warning cloud or dim foretelling gloom. Her
mother's awful death itself had not been more
appalling, more unexpected, than this strange
announcement of her father's that she must give
up her lover. Not half an hour ago and she

felt that her love at least was as safe and solid
as the very earth itself ; and now had come the
earthquake and ruin and desolation everywhere !

Then you do not love me, Stella ? Ah,
well, I must inure myself to woe ! "

Mr. Branscombe sighed deeply, leaning his
glossy well-brushed head with pensive grace on
his white and scented hand.

" Yes, papa, I do ! I do ! You know that
I do ! " she answered, kneeling down by him as
she used to kneel by her mother. " But I love
Cyril too. Why may I not keep you both ? "

Impossible, Stella ! Impossible, my child !
No man can serve two masters, and you must
make your choice between us. You cannot
have both father and lover  at least not now
and in their entirety."

He spoke in a slow, deep measured voice 
still the voice in which he was wont to repeat
his poetry and which to Stella expressed the
ideal of pathos, truth and earnestness.

Say exactly what you mean and wish,
papa," she cried, the look of pain on her face
deepening into one of absolute terror. It was
almost as if this beloved father, representative
of all human nobleness as he was, had suddenly
become transformed and had taken on himself
something strange and dreadful  as if the

guardian angel in whose care she had trusted
the god whose grace she had prayed to win
and thought to have found  had turned from
her with an angry countenance, and had become
her cruel enemy and her implacable judge.

1 mean, my dear, that you must postpone
your marriage with this young man ; at least
for the immediate present," said Mr. Branscombe,
softening his voice but thinking it as
well to go straight to the point and spare
further agonies of doubt.

Not marry him in August ? " asked Stella.
Cyril will wait," she added. " There is no
need to marry till he has received his appointment
and just before he sails. I am sure he
will wait," she said, speaking as if a load had
been taken from her, and as she spoke, laying
her hand in her father's with a fond, almost
protecting gesture.

And you would break my heart in September
say, if you refrain from doing so in
August ? " he answered reproachfully. " You
would leave me, Stella, in my terrible loneliness
while you made your own happiness with
another ?  and leave me with such unnecessary
haste," he added in a low voice. " I shall soon
die ! " he sighed, laying his hand on his heart.
*' My days are numbered. Would you advance

by so much the fatal hour ?  you, my daughter,
my Stella ! "

Papa ! you are not ill, are you ? I did not
know that you were ill," cried Stella, kissing his
hands as this new fear overwhelmed her with
fresh agony.

Cyril is young," continued Mr. Branscombe,
not heeding the interruption or the caresses,
and only careful to work the profitable vein on
which he had struck. " You will not have long
to wait. My days, my Stella, will not be many,
for my heart is broken and my health destroyed
for ever. I ask you only to stay with me 
your only parent now !  for the few months, or
even weeks it may be, remaining to me ;  not
to leave me to be tended by hirelings in my last
hours ;  to stay with me, my child, and close
my eyes when I shall depart to her whom we
both love and who has already gone. I should
like to have your sweet face about my dying
pillow  the last thing on which my failing sight
should rest 1 I should like to go straight from
my own dear child on earth to the sainted spirit
of her mother in heaven  from my earthly
Stella to my soul's best purified star ! "

He said all this with mournful eyes delicately
wxt and again raised devoutly to the ceiling of
the room. His air of poetic resignation and

elegant despair would have been transparent
enough to all but a child who had been born
and brought up in the faith of filial worship
and the belief in paternal perfection. But it
told with Stella as he meant it to tell. Her
critical faculty had never dared to plumb nor
measure her father's sincerity.

Papa ! papa ! do not talk like this ! " she
cried, weeping passionately. " It breaks my
heart to hear you."

Mine is broken already," said Mr. Branscombe
with that pathetic patience, that quiet
resignation to despair and pensive allusion to
unknown burdens which touches the sympathies
of the young more deeply than anything in the
world beside.

No, no, papa ! You have years of life and
beautiful work before you. Years, years," she
said, clinging to him.

Oh, my sweet, fond, trustful child, how
youth and love deceive themselves ! " he
answered, stroking her hair with tender love 
the melancholy caress of illimitable sorrow. " A
very few months will see the light of this world
quenched for me and my eyes opened to the
glories above. See ! I ask so little from you, my
Stella ! " he went on to say in a pleading voice
that was to his daughter as if a king had knelt

at the feet of a beggar. " For what do I sue ?
Only that you should hold my hand during that
fateful passage of my soul  only that you should
sit by my bedside while I pass away  receive
my last sigh, and close my eyes when I am
gone ! Is this so much to demand from out the
rich treasure of a daughter's love ?  so much
to take from a long life of happiness as a
tribute to a father's worth? In a very short
time I shall be in the grave and you will be
free to marry your young husband. I shall be
out of your path and you will have no obstruction
to your wishes. It will not last long, my
Stella  not long ! not long ! The year of your
mourning for your beloved mother will not have
passed before I, your father, am laid by her side.
And during that year of mourning would you
invest yourself in all your bridal array and
forget her who gave you life in the mad pleasure
of the world, the giddy round of bridal festivities
? I cannot think so meanly of my Stella 
of her mother's child 1 "

Papa ! all that you say seems so sad, and so
beautiful while you speak  but Cyril ! poor
poor Cyril ! " said Stella, weeping afresh.

Choose then as your heart dictates," said Mr.
Branscombe very tenderly and in the manner
of one who suddenly abandons all argument, all

persuasion. ' I would put no force on you. If
I do not win the little sacrifice I have demanded
from the plentitude of your love and with the
approbation of your conscience, I do not want
it from any other motive. Marry then, my
Stella, and be happy. I will do my best without
you  do my best to find my comfort in the
knowledge of your young joy, and to bear with
the dignity of a man and the resignation of a
Christian the disappointment of my hopes, the
wreck of my love and the few days of sorrow
still left to me. But, oh God ! " he cried with a
burst of anguish ; '' that it should have come to
this ! that my child, my own beloved and
idolized child  my Star, my little Stella  should
desert me for a stranger and make her happiness
out of my despair ! "

He turned away, then suddenly crossed his
arms on the table, laid his head on them as if
bowed down with anguish, and burst into a
passionate flood of tears.

Papa ! darling dearest beloved papa  do
not cry ! do not be so unhappy ! " said Stella,
trying to force his face from his arms ; but the
paternal spine was strong and she could not stir
it. " Papa, you are breaking my heart ! " she
continued. " Look up, dearest papa ! do look at
me ! Oh I cannot bear this ! " she said, as his

VOL. I. M

tears and convulsive sobs grew heavier and
more agonized. " I would rather die than see
you like this. Papa ! dear papa, I will not
leave you ! Look up, and do not break my
heart in this dreadful way ! I cannot bear it !
Papa, hear me  I will not marry to leave you
alone ! "

The die was cast ; her promise registered ;
her father had won the game.

God bless you, my beloved child ! " he
sobbed, as he lifted up his face and took the girl
to his heart. " Now I know my daughter once
more  the Star of my Home  my one sole
treasure left ! "

Only be happy, darling papa, and I shall
not mind for anything," cried Stella, strung for
the moment by the exaltation of her martyrdom
to the poetry and nobleness of sacrifice. Then
the smoke of the incense cleared and the flame
died down as she remembered all that this
martyrdom included. " My poor Cyril ! I have
broken your heart ! " she sobbed.

Crushed down by her pain she sank at her
father's well-shod, dainty feet, as a devotee
might have sunk before the altar of Moloch
when the decree of passing one beloved through
the fire had gone forth.

My love," said her father, raising her and

kissing her forehead with paternal solemnity ;
you have been Cyril's good angel in that you
have given him an opportunity for the exercise
of spiritual grace, for which he ought to bless
and thank you on his knees. It is not everyday
that such grand moments come into our
lives. Our best benefactor is he who allows us
occasion for the cultivation of our highest nature
and our noblest self."

And Stella, in her innocence, did not turn the
mirror round, nor ask herself why, if it were
such a boon that Cyril should have this occasion
of spiritual grace through the gift of sorrow 
this opportunity of virtue and the cultivation of
his highest self by the way of sacrifice  it had
not been as valuable for her father ? Surely  if
she had dared to reflect and been able to see  it
would have been more in accordance with his
professed system of self-culture, had he appropriated
to himself this opportunity of ethical
improvement instead of giving it to another
who would not value it. A young fellow like
Cyril, content to live on that unidealized moral
plane where to speak the truth and have no fear
of man, to be brave and loyal, cheerful and
generous, sincere in soul and pure in heart,
considerate for others and self-respectful for
himself, made about the sum of his private

decalogue, was not likely to be grateful for
this kind of super sensual martyrdom, nor
indeed very likely to profit by it. Many a man's
morality has been wrecked before now by such
a trial as this ; and Cyril had yet to prove the
quality of his, and show by experience whether
it would bear the strain put on it by Mr.
Branscombe, or break down under it with hopeless
ruin and collapse.

But the poor girl thought none of these
things. She was not near the region of clear-sighted
understanding where her father was
concerned. And by her blindness her pain was
lessened by at least one pang in that she did not
suspect the hollowness of all these high sounding
principles for which she suffered  in that
she had not dared to imagine that her god was
only a mountebank playing a part on a gilded
stage  or that the dazzling veil of her prophet
hid deformity not superhuman radiance and
beauty. Her father was still to her the
Supreme ; and in obeying him she was emphatically
obeying the higher law and doings
her noblest duty.

All the same her heart was sore for her
young lover and for herself, and the anguish of
her martyrdom was hard to bear.

CHAPTER X.

FRIENDS IX COUNCIL.

Naturally it was more difficult to convince
Cyril than it had been to persuade Stella, that
this renunciation of the lover in favour of the
father was righteous, just and holy. And the
young fellow had to run the gauntlet of many
well-delivered blows because he could not see,
and would not acknowledge, that father's
superior claims. He had to submit to the accusations
of selfishness and egoism  according to
the invariable rule of the selfish and egoistic 
of inability to rise to the sublime height of
Duty, that stern Voice of God which we ought
all to obey like little children at the rather's
knee  of moral coarseness  and finally of greed ;
Stella's portion, coming to her through her
mother, being of manifest importance to a man
whose sole actual inheritance that he could touch

and handle was just one hundred and fifty
pounds a year.

And when Mr. Branscombe blew this poisoned
little needle from between his fine, thin, mobile
lips he did more execution with it than with
any other he had used ; as indeed he had foreseen
; and by making Cyril furiously angry he
put him in the wrong, and forced him to
apologize.

On his part Mr. Branscombe was as cool as
an ice-cave in a glacier. All these hard things
were said with the quietest and most gentlemanlike
air of philosophic impartiality possible to
be imagined. Not a trace of passion on his
side reduced the question to one of individual
antagonism or lowered the lofty standard of
abstract morality by which he measured the
right and wrong of the proposition. His accusations
were all based on fact not feeling, and
were capable of mathematical demonstration ;
and when he said things which were as hard
as iron and as sharp as steel, his voice was so
calm, his intonation so melodious, his manner so
refined, that Cyril was often more bewildered
than indignant.

More than once he asked himself with boyish
doubt of his own heart, had Mr. Branscombe
really the nobler insight, and was he himself

just a headstrong youth, governed solely by
selfish passion and incapable of a higher
morality ? Yet he could not quite come to this
view of himself, try as hard as he would to be
honest and candid, and for all that he was to
some degree infected by the family cult paid to
the family Apollo. He could not quite confess
that he was so much of a low-minded ruffian as
Mr. Branscombe made out  always by logical
deduction from general principles, and when
the sense of a wordy paraphrase had to be
crystalized into an adjective and a noun  because
he wanted to marry Stella, according to their
engagement, even though this marriage should
take her from her father. It was the law of
life, he argued. Birds leave their nests and
sons their mothers ; daughters make new homes
for themselves with other sons taken from
other mothers ; and so the thing goes on all
the world over. What then was there specially
shameful and ignoble in this very natural desire
of his to make Stella his wife according to her
promise ? Grant that it did include her elegant
father's domestic loneliness  that it necessitated
a housekeeper and perhaps an amanuensis  someone
must suffer ; and Cyril, strong in youth
and love and all the hope of his great joy, did
not see why that some one should be himself.

No, doing his best to be candid, he could not
see it  though certainly not for want of Mr.
Branscombe's strenuous and unabashed efforts
to enlighten him.

Meanwhile between the two poor Stella was
morally in the position of those savage brides
who, carried off with violence by their husbands
and defended with brutality by their kinsmen,
run great risk of being torn to pieces between
those who try to take and those who will not
let go. It was a terrible position for her in
truth !  and her heart was nearly broken in her
endeavour to reconcile these two irreconcilable
affections, to obey these two opposing duties.

When Cyril, with all a young lover's passionate
despair, besought her to keep her engagement
and marry him as she had promised ;
when he urged on her his love, his sorrow, his
ruined life, the sacredness of her vows, the
destruction of his whole future if she fell away
from him, and clinched all by appeals to her
dead mother's memory and reminders of how
she had always countenanced and upheld this
love  the poor girl felt that this was indeed her
duty, this her truest religion, and that nothing
ought to stand between her and his rescue from
destruction. When her father in his measured,
mournful voice spoke in poetic language of his

broken heart, his speedy death of which he was
sorrowfully certain ; and yet why should it be
sorrowful ?  would it not be his release, and
her recovery of freedom ?  when he reminded
her that the sacrifice which he asked of her was
only for so short a time ; when he compressed
the whole thing into an antithesis  so little to
lose and so much to give ; when he, too, spoke
of her mother up there in heaven, she whose
whole life had been one of love and duty and
devotion to him, and whose example should be
her guide  then her heart turned to him, to
this poor papa who was so good, so beautiful,
so superior, such a genius ; and she felt that
Cyril must be patient and consent to wait
cheerfully, as she had promised. It was only
right and just. They were young and poor
papa was not. They owed more to him than
to each other ; and they could be true and
faithful and loving even though they were not
to be married just yet. It was their duty.
Sacrifice is nobler than self-seeking. They
must forego their happiness now that they
might take it with a clearer conscience when
the time for it should come naturally and without
wrong-doing.

Slowly the oscillating balance of her mind
inclined more and more this way. Her promise,

always insisted on by her father, had already
been given as we know. Gradually it became
clear as daylight to her that this was the right
thing to do  the thing which the higher law
commanded and which her mother would have
approved. She forgot that mother's anxiety
that the marriage should take place even before
the day originally fixed on. She had not
understood the true significance of her desire
then, and she saw it no more clearly now. She
only remembered the one great lesson of her life,
and by this she sought to shape her own. And
as she grew more convinced of the righteousness
of her renunciation she found that strength
which comes from distinctness of belief, and
was able to stand with less turmoil of soul by
her desolating decision.

It made no difference to her when Augusta
Latrobe, at Cyril's prayer, came to Rose Hill to
urge his claims and advise her to marry despite
her father's words and her own promise. Poor
Cyril ! it was once more, as so often before, the
straw caught at by the drowning man. He
remembered Mrs. Latrobe's kind manner and
odd advice in the conservatory, before the awful
catastrophe of Mrs. Branscombe's death had
thrown all into such dire confusion, and he
went to The Laurels as almost the last chance

left him. Fortunately for him, he met her just
as she was leaving the house with her boy, for
their afternoon's walk. For Mrs. Morshead,
though rich, would not allow her daughter to
have either a maid for herself or a nurse for the
boy. Mothers who had children should look
after them themselves, she used to say sourly ;
and women who chose to go and marry men
without sixpence could not expect maids and
things when they came back as paupers with
families to their old homes.

By meeting her thus alone, Cyril was able
to open his heart and ask the fair widow's
assistance in the forlorn hope he was leading
against Mr. Branscombe, without let or hindrance
or spiteful remark from the terrible old woman
who was thus kept happily out of the matter.

I knew it," said Augusta. " I was sure
that this would come. I told you as much in
the conservatory that day when I advised you
to marry  at least this was what I meant. Do
you remember ? "

Yes ; but I did not understand then what
you did mean ; and Stella would not have consented
to marry me secretly, even if I had asked
her," said Cyril.

No ; I know that she would not ; for I said
much the same to her as I did to you. She

saw no rocks ahead, poor clear ! and was half
inclined to quarrel with me for my wickedness 
only that she is too good to quarrel with anyone.
I am sorry for you both, Mr. Ponsonby 
for you, because the happiness of your youth is
destroyed, and for her, because she is sacrificing
both you and herself to such a mere bit of
humbug as Mr. Branscombe. It is the true
given for the untrue."

Oh ! " said Cyril, still under the influence of
that family worship.

Surely you do not mean to say that you
believe in Mr. Branscombe ? " said Augusta,
suddenly stopping and facing the young fellow,
her clear grey eyes looking into his with as
much amusement as surprise. " The most
transparent old humbug in the place!  the
merest fop and twaddler flattered into thinking
himself a genius ! Why, Mr. Ponsonby, you
surely do not believe in him ? " she said again.

Up to now I have," he answered.

And now he shows himself in his true
colours as utterly selfish and unfeeling," said
Augusta. " But he has done nothing which I,
who know him, should not have expected of
him."

He is certainly acting selfishly and cruelly
just now," said Cyril. '' It is all a puzzle tome.


To me none, for he is doing only as he has
done all his life' answered the widow. Then
she added in a voice of inquiry ; " I have often
wondered what darling Mrs. Branscomhe did
really think ! She was a woman of far too
much good sense to be taken in by him I am
sure ; but how beautifully she behaved ! She
was never heard to say a word nor seen to
look as if she saw through him, as she must
have done. I used to think there are more
martyrs in life than have gone to the stake
when she showed his hideous daubs and played
his atrocious music as sweetly as if it had all
been true art instead of the awful stuff it is.
What an angel she was !  but what a thousand
pities that she ever married that wretched
creature ! He was no more worthy of her than
if he had been a Cherokee Indian ; and not
so much ; for a Cherokee Indian would have
been at least a man, and Mr. Branscomhe is
not."

And by the time that Augusta had delivered
herself of this last astounding philippic, which
made Cyril hot all over, they had come to Eose
Hill and her mission of wise counsel began.

She could do nothing. Stella wept as a
loving girl naturally would when discussing
such a tremendous matter as this sacrifice was

to her ; but she said that she had thought it all
out and had come to this decision as the best if
not the happiest thing to do. She had prayed
for guidance and she had received the assurance
of this direction. It was a terrible trial for
them all ; but it was right ; and her conscience
upheld her in her sorrow.

My dear, nothing in the world is so fallacious
as conscience," said that graceless widow whose
rule of right was common sense. '' Reason the
thing out fairly and you will find that commonsense
is dead against you. Sentiment  and
false sentiment too  is all that you have on
your side. You have let your mind get heated
and excited so that you do not see things as
they are. Believe me, you are acting foolishly
and wrongly. Remember, you owe something
to Cyril as well as to your father ; and you
made your first promise to him."

But it is better for Cyril to suffer than todo
wrong," said Stella. " He is unhappy now,
poor darling, but I am sure that in his heart he
feels I am right. He knows that I do not love
him less because I feel it to be my duty to keep
with poor papa for a few months or years 
while he wants me and cannot do without me."

You will repent it," said Augusta. " And
I tell you again that you are acting not only

foolishly but wrongly  as all enthusiasts always
do."

My conscience tells me I am right," said
Stella with mournful constancy ; and the
widow, who was sacrificing her own life's
happiness to her idea of duty, knew that it was
useless to say more.

It was not by nor for herself that Stella had
judged. It was the voice of that Divine guidance
which she had I'ayed for that spoke in
her ; and she would be doubly criminal were
she to be false to its teaching. She loved Cyril
better than her life ; but not better than God ;
and love was less than the Divine Will. And
by the decree of this Divine Will she owed her
first duty to her father. If he forbad the marriage
to take place yet awhile, and wanted her
to live with him for another year or so, she
must obey him. She would be sinful else.

One other person agreed with her ; and only
one. This was Hortensia Lyon  next to
Augusta her greatest friend ; perhaps now,
when Augusta had gone over so boldly to
Mammon and self-seeking, she ought to call her
quite her greatest and dearest and nearest !
Hortensia  a pretty, large-eyed, delicately-featured
little creature with a Puritan air and
a Quaker-like head, slender as a willow wand,

dreamy, unpractical and interpenetrated with
moral heroism and the spirit of self-sacrifice 
Hortensia upheld her, and said that she was
doing grandly, nobly, virtuously. And when
we are inclined to one way more than to
another, a child's applause will uphold us where
the condemnation of a sage weill scarcely shake.
Stella was greatly cheered by what Hortensia
said. The two together carried the day against
Augusta's tinkling cymbal of worldly wisdom ;
and finally the question was settled. Duty
triumphed over love ; the way of sacrifice was
entered on rather than that of happiness ; her
father's need was more powerful than her lover's
loss ; and the desolation of the former was more
pitiful than the despair of the latter. Stella
turned her face from the pleasant garden where
life was to have been one long summer's day of
love and joy, and accepted the stony path of
virtue and renunciation. The scale of duty
settled down firmly and the balance no longer
oscillated. She said, " No, we must wait," for
the last time ; and then the curtain fell on
Cyril's departure from High AYood, still engaged
but with his marriage indefinitely postponed.
At any rate it was postponed until
that not far-distant time when Mr. Branscombe
should die of his broken heart and secret

malady ; as he faithfully promised that he
would.

So now there were three broken hearts
instead of one. And of these three, Stella was
upheld by the consciousness of well doing  Mr.
Branscombe had the tremendous strength given
by that kind of egoism which justifies itself
through belief in its own superiority to all the
surrounding world  while Cyril, who had
neither the consciousness of well doing nor the
strength of egoism to support him, was the
victim of both and undeniably the one most
to be pitied of the three.

But he neither cut his throat nor had brain-fever,
as perhaps he should had he been the
ideal lover of woman's favourite fancy. He went
back to London quietly and like a gentleman ;
not taking the world into his confidence by any
eccentric demonstrations of grief . on the platform,
yet, all the same, feeling more desolate,
more shipwrecked than he once believed he
ever could have felt, come what might into
his life.

Meanwhile, Stella, listening to her father's
poetry and playing over his music at Eose Hill,
furtively wiped away the tears that would fall,
try as she might to strangle them in her throat
before they mounted to her eyes. As Cyril did

VOL. I. N

not see these tears he could scarcely give her
credit for them ; and more than once he surprised
in himself a certain strain of bitterness
when he thought of her choice, and how she
had thrown him over for the father whose
immense superiority he was beginning to
question. But whenever he came face to face
with that strain he checked it as if it had
been a mortal sin. Whatever else he lost he
would not lose his faith in her, he used to say
to himself; "the noblest girl in the world," as
Hortensia Lyon had called her when finally the
coup de grace had been given to love and
all love's sweet fond weakness, and the cross
of duty, self-sacrifice and daily martyrdom had
been preferred instead. Yes ; she was the
noblest-minded girl in the world and the
dearest, thought poor Cyril with faithful constancy
and loving reverence ; and whatever
happened he would keep this faith as a precious
and inalienable amulet.

Alike in the loftiness of their principles, especially
so far as these affected Cyril, nothing
could be more unlike in character than these
two friends, Stella Branscombe and Hortensia
Lyon. Stella was as we have seen, preeminently
a good girl, conscientious, honourable,
dutiful, unselfish ; but she was also pre-eminently

natural and human. She liked fun as well as
the Miss Pennefathers, say, though her fun was
somewhat different from theirs ; she had a
merry smile and a merry laugh when she did
smile and laugh  which she had not done of
late ; she was by no means indifferent to dress,
but thought the choice of a colour, the cut of
a sleeve, matters demanding careful consideration
; she honoured principles, but she was
sweetly weak to persons ; in a word she was
feminine and concrete, where Hortensia was
spiritual and abstract  or rather, it should
be said, where Hortensia tried to make herself
believe that she was spiritual and abstract.

Hortensia was one of whom those who loved
her said she was too good for this world, and
those who did not said she gave herself airs,
and thought herself better than anybody else.
Mr. Branscombe once wrote an Ode in her
honour, wherein he compared her to a lily, a
daisy, a dove and a fawn ; and Mrs. Morshead
used to call her " that affected little jade," and
express her longing to improve her manners
and ways by giving her a good shaking. She
was not always quite the same person, having
already had various ideals in her mind to which
she morally dressed. At present her pose was
that of Evangeline and other Puritan maidens

of whom the ideal went to the extreme of self-suppression
; a standard of life so lofty as to
be practically unattainable ; passionless purity ;
maidenly reserve ; womanly and ennobling influences.
She was just at the age when girls
put out their sensibilities like feelers, trying for
their proper pabulum, their appointed path. She
talked a great deal of every woman having her
assigned mission ; and her soul's pain at this
moment was, that she had not found hers. She
sometimes said that she would make herself a
hospital-nurse, and sometimes that she would
go to Girton and take honours in classics and
mathematics. Sometimes she was all for taking
up a neglected district in London, which she
would cleanse and purify and make into a little
oasis of virtue and modesty by the simple force
of her presence, the power of her exhortations.
Then she thought she would write a book 
only she did not quite know on what subject,
nor how to begin, nor was she always sure of
her spelling, while her syntax was decidedly
shaky. At another time she talked of going
into a school where she should teach girls
younger than herself such problems of life and
morals as she herself had mastered. Preaching
to navvies was a prospect that at one time
allured her ; keeping a night-school for ploughboys

was another ; going out to India on the
Zenana Mission was one dream of her idle
hours ; studying medicine was another. It
was the seething time of her mental life and
she was always in a state of unrest ; but she
was sincere if rather silly ; and she had not
yet tried falling in love. Indeed, she proclaimed
herself one of nature's vestal, inasmuch
as she thought love a very dreadful
matter, and girls who liked men very reprehensible
and extraordinary. She could not
understand how any nice girl could possibly
like one man better than all women ; and even
her old bosom-friend, Stella Branscombe, had
dropped down many degrees when first her
engagement to Cyril Ponsonby had been made
known. By her renunciation she had risen
even higher than she stood before ; and Hortensia
welcomed her back to continued celibacy
as a kind of strayed lamb restored to the fold
of maidenly right-mindedness. For all this she
was not consciously affected ; she was only seeking
and dissatisfied.

Her present attitude was, as has been said,
that of intense quietness of life and moral self-restraint
; and her main mission was to influence
her cousin Randolph Mackenzie to take
orders. '' Woman's rightful work was just this

kind of tiling," she said. It was influence, not
authority ; passivity, not action ; and to make
a splendid fellow of six-feet two content himself
with a country curacy, where he would have
perhaps three hundred bucolic souls of all ages to
look after, was the latest object of her ambition.
It was through this cousin, Randolph Mac-kenzie,
that Cyril Ponsonby had known High-wood
and Stella Branscombe. The two young
men, the Orestes and Pylades of their set,
were fast friends and sworn chums. They had
come down to this pretty place on the outskirts
of the mountain district for the Long of one
year and the Short of another, by which all the
mischief had been done and the present sorrow
brought about. For if Randolph Mackenzie
had not thought his cousin Hortensia an interesting
little thing, with all her odd fancies
and demureness, he would not have spent his
vacations at High wood and then Cyril would
not have known Stella Branscombe ; he would
not have fallen in love with her, nor would she
with him ; he would not have gained her
parents' consent to a marriage which had more
prospective solidity than present brilliancy ; he
would not have been throAvn overboard by Mr.
Branscombe when that good Matilda died and
the poet and artist wanted to keep Stella to

himself; and he would not therefore have been
knocking; about London at this moment with
the sad patience of a man whose life has lost its
meaning but to whom no violence nor raving-can
bring relief; he would not have thought
his youth, his strength, his manhood, his health,
his ambition of no present avail, and only of
future blessing when fate should have comfortably
disposed of Mr. Frederick Branscombo
and have thus made Stella free.

Meanwhile Hortensia bade her friend be of
good cheer. She had done what was right, and
the right knows no recoil of sorrow  she had
sacrificed herself for her father ; and what could
she have done better than this ?

She could have married in spite of her
father, and that would have been better," said
Augusta Latrobe, when Hortensia pronounced
her lofty theorem. '' She owed it to herself
and Cyril Ponsonby ; and in my opinion she
has been very silly, very weak and absurdly
sentimental."

Oh, Mrs. Latrobe ! I wonder how you can
say such things ! " said Hortensia with not very
flattering surprise. " I think she has been
sublime ! "

Very likely you do," answered Augusta
coolly. " That does not prove her wise

because you are foolish. You are just a couple
of sentimental school-girls together ; and one
makes the other more ridiculous than she need
be. Self-sacrifice is all very well up to a certain
point, but beyond that it is wrong. And
Stella's was beyond that point."

For her father ! " repeated Hortensia.

For a selfish old fop ! " said Augusta.
Father or not, he is nothing but that  a very
selfish, vain old man ! "

'' Oh ! " said Hortensia again.

Since that Ode written in her honour she too
had accepted the family myth and joined in the
family worship. " How can you speak of such
a man as Mr. Branscombe in this way ? He is
a genius  a real divinely-inspired genius."

He has had wit enough to persuade you and
others that he is," said Augusta ; " which is
the cleverest thing about him that I know. As
for real talent he has no more than that dragon-fly
 and not so much  for the dragon-fly
knows what he can do and what he cannot,
and what he does he does well ; which you
cannot say of Mr. Branscombe. If you must
have a hero, Hortensia, take a real one and not
such a sham as this ! "

But Hortensia's pretty Puritanical little face
gave no sign of yielding to what, after all, was

less argument than assertion. On the contrary,
a faint, self-satisfied smile stole over it, as she
said to herself : " Augusta is jealous of me and
Mr. Branscombe. I remember, now, how
vexed she was when he wrote that lovely Ode
to me, and she does not like him because he
does not like her. He called her the other day
a chrysalis not yet expanded ; but he said that
I was a Psyche and had gained my wings. I
know him better than she does ; and I know
how beautiful his nature is and what a splendid
intellect he has ; and nothing that she can say
will change my opinion." Aloud she said
firmly : " Stella has done quite right to give
up her marriage that she might stay with her
father. Such a father is not an e very-day
possession."

And with this she sighed and wished that
her father had been as refined and lovely as Mr.
Branscombe. But for her sins he was only an
anaesthetic kind of Philistine, who laughed at
the vagaries of his little maid, as he called her ;
gave her free leave to talk, according to her
mood, but took care that she did nothing compromising
or overt ; chained her when she was
at her sublimest, and sometimes, but rarely,
reasoned with her gravely when she had gone
farther than usual over the borders of good

sense and right reason  a good-tempered,
domestic, utterly unromantic being, who liked
his cigars and took kindly to his claret and
who thought the world would be the best place
imaginable but for those uncomfortable enthusiasts
who are bent on making it better.

If only people would let things alone ! " he
used to say, holding his glass between him and
the light ; " if only his little maid would be
content with her lot as Providence had marked
it out for her, and not bother herself about
things which were no concerns of hers and for
which nature had not fitted her ! She had
everything in life to make her happy, and what
the dickens was it to her what others had or
had not, were or were not ! We were sent hereto
do our duty like rational beings  not to go
tramping over the world tilting at windmills
like so many Don Quixote ; and we were
meant to enjoy ourselves  not to live always
in the blues and as if we were going to our
execution ! So he would his little maid should
go and sing ' I'm afloat ! ' and leave all these
doleful dumps for the maniacs who liked them! "

By which it may be seen what an anaesthetic
and semi-reprobate Mr. Lyon was ; and why
Hortensia sighed when she contrasted Stella's
elegant father with her own.

CHAPTER XI.

HIS FAITHFUL CHUM.

It was a fine rich luscious day when everything
tempted even the most indolent or the
most industrious to leave the four narrow walls
of home for the fresh air and freedom of nature.
But at four o'clock Mr. Branscombe was still in
his studio, as he had been all the morning.
And Stella was with him, as she also had been
all the morning  indeed as she always was in
these sad later days ! She had glided into her
mother's place about her father as naturally as
she had inherited her jewels, or taken over the
housekeeping, and was now as firmly established
in it as if there had never been what Mr. Branscombe
used to call a solution of continuity at
all. She was his audience and his torchbearer,
his secretary and amanuensis, just as that good
Matilda had been ; and she did almost as well.

She copied out his poetry and made his
manuscript music intelligible ; she learnt his
songs and played his symphonies ; she accepted
his own interpretation of his mixed metaphors
and confused phrases, and believed him when
he said that this thought was grand and that
idea fine ; she believed in him, ministered to
him, thought that she understood him and was
very sure that she loved him. And because she
believed in him and loved him she flattered him
to the top of his bent, under the idea that she
was simply paying him proper respect and
offering him the homage so entirely his due.

And she used to tell herself twenty times a
day that her life was blessed and her labours
gracious privileges, and that to be of use to her
beloved and gifted father was the noblest
destiny she could fulfil. Nevertheless, her
young heart was often weary ; do what she
would the tears would rise from her choking
throat to her eyes ; she was getting very pale
and thin and careworn altogether ; and something
of her mother's look of patient and
concealed pain was creeping into her face, like
grey shadows among the roses.

Mr. Branscombe's artistic activity had not
been interrupted by his wife's death. When
the details of the funeral had been arranged, a

becoming studio dress of dark grey velvet, with
a crape band round the arm, devised, and the
Monument thought out, as he said, then he
went back to his art, which was like nothing
so much as the unconscious cerebration of
somnambulism. To be sure his Epic was laid
aside. It would be a mutilated monument to
her memory, he said ; all the more impressive
in its unfinished state than if he had perfected
it to the end. In the incompleteness of this
grand work would be seen the depth and tragic
intensity of his love and its great loss ; and he
would found his claim to immortality more on
this colossal fragment than on any of his
finished pieces. The grandest works of art are
Greek torsos and Michael Angelo's unfinished
statues, he said. His Epic should rank with
them ; and he was not ashamed of the parallel.

For the rest he spent his time in writing
Odes to Memory," " Threnodies," " Sonnets
to My Lost Love," " To Matilda in Heaven,"
and the like; and in composing funeral marches
and dirges, which Stella had to learn by heart
and play in the twilight. Also he began a
picture like to nothing in heaven or earth ; but
it stood in his imagination as a striking likeness
of his good Matilda going up to heaven in a
cloud of glory, attended by angels and cherubs'

heads. It was a cross between an Assumption
and St. Catherine ; but he honestly believed it
to be original and all his own ; and he was
perhaps more content with this last effort of
his genius than with anything that he had ever
done.

If only he had been content to maunder
about these queer artistic fields by himself  if
only he would have planted and reared and
harvested without claiming the companionship
and assistance of another, he might have
amused himself then as he would, and have
been no burden to man or woman. But he
would not labour alone  for he called it labour,
and believed it to be as he called it. He was
like one of those children who cannot play by
themselves, but must have some one to sit by
and watch them  to be their chorus, or at least
their audience. So with Mr. Branscombe ;  he
must have an artistic henchman ; and Stella
was consecrated by nature and convenience to
that post. As we have seen, she thought that
she prized her privileges and was glad of her
power to make poor papa's days less sad. But
how unhappy her own were ! She suffered from
such a strange sense of oppression, of tedium, of
fatigue, of monotony, of mental starvation too,
for which she could in no wise account. She

supposed it was all because dear, dear mamma
had died and poor darling Cyril had gone away
so miserable and unsatisfied. It could be
nothing more ; but how beautiful it was out of
doors to-day ! How much she would like to be
in the garden ! Papa's studio was always rather
close and stifling  the window being generally
shut even on a summer's day like this, and the
smell of the paint strong. If he would but
come out for a little while with her ?  It would
do him good ; and the day was so lovely.

Yet how could she ask him when he had
told her that the Ode which she was transcribing
must be done by yq o'clock, and it
was now four and she had not nearly finished ?
She had been writing ever since ten o'clock this
morning, and she had been unpardonably slow.
No ; she must not look at the sunshine on the
grass, at the flowers in the beds, at the blue
sky above. She must not imagine the fresh
scents nor the singing of the birds ; she must
finish this bit of work for dear papa, and please
him by doing it well. And yet how unsteady
her hand was to-day !  and those wretched
tears !  They blurred her vision so that she
could not see what she was doing ; and if they
fell on the paper they spoilt everything. But
she could not keep them out of her eyes ; and

when papa called her in his self-absorbed, preoccupied
way ; " My good Matilda," as he so
often did, she felt as if she should die. But she
must get on with this Ode, one of the many
already composed in honour of her sweet
mother's memory, and stifle her yearnings, her
sorrow and her weariness as she best could.

Not many people came now to Rose Hill.
All the visits of condolence had been paid and
things had gone back into their usual groove.
Stella and Mr. Branscombe were so constantly
denied that the neighbours gave up making
useless calls which only annoyed them, knowing
as they did that this perpetual invisibility,
this constant " not at home," was a fiction, nota
fact. And though all knew that the order
was general not individual, each took it as a
personal affront and resented it accordingly.

One visitor however, was never shut out ;
and to whomsoever else father and daughter
were denied, for Hortensia Lyon they had
always a welcome. She was Mr. Branscombe's
prime favourite, and he never thought the time
lost that was given to her. When therefore,
the servant came in to-day, and said that Miss
Lyon was in the drawing-room, Mr. Branscombe,
so far from objecting to this interruption,
looked back from his easel with a smile, telling

Stella that she might leave her transcription
till tomorrow, and that she was to keep her
little friend for a few minutes till he should
have finished this piece of angelic drapery,
when he himself would come to them.

"Hortensia Lyon is not like other girls, vain,
shallow, frivolous, ignorant," he said. " She
has a heart and a mind, and goes far deeper in
thought than many a woman of twice her age.
I consider her a rare and precious possession
here in our little sanctuary of poetry and art."

She is a dear girl ; and she values you too,
papa. She will be so glad to see sou. I know
she thinks it an honour  as she ought."

Stella spoke warmly and quickly, with a
sudden feeling of relief and pleasure, only to be
accounted for on the ground of her immense
love for Hortensia Lyon. It was as if the
gloom which pervaded this hot stifling room
like a bodily presence had been suddenly
removed ; and she felt almost like the Stella of
former days as she shut the study-door behind
her, and breathed the fresher air of the hall and
passages.

When she went into the drawing-room she

found not only Hortensia, but Hortensia's

cousin as well  that tall, broad, big-limbed

Eandolph Mackenzie whom the little player at

VOL. r.

Providence and Puritanism wanted to transform
into a meek country curate devoted to
lawn-tennis and Mothers' meetings, and whom
nature had designed for a pioneer of civilization
and the ruler of rough men whose strength he
would direct and make subservient to good
ends. But natural designation had not much
influence over Hortensia, and playing at Providence
had.

There had always been a very friendly feeling
between Stella and Randolph. As the chum
of her beloved  as the beloved of his chum 
they met on the common ground of interest and
sympathy ; and each loved the other because
both loved Cyril Ponsonby. At this moment
then, when all her love had turned to sorrow,
this visit was doubly delightful to the poor
girl ; and only to Cyril himself would she have
shown more joy and welcome than she did to
Randolph.

When did you come ? " she asked with a
fluttered look.

It was almost as if Cyril himself was standing
like a spirit behind that huge broad back.

Last night. So you see I have not been
long before coming to see you," he answered.

No, indeed, you have not. And it was very
kind of you," she said.

With a strange impulse she bent forward and
offered him her hand again, her beautiful blue
eyes filling with tears as she looked into his
face with such a sudden effluence of love on her
own, it made him almost start.

'' I assure you, Stella, I have had no peace
till I brought him here," said Hortensia, with
her delicate, half-checked smile  smiling being
a frivolity rather below her present standard of
moral excellence and not to be indulged in
needlessly. " I tell him he is sadly undisciplined,
and needs far more self-control than he has," she
added, looking at her massive cousin with the
slender woman's amiable sense of spiritual
superiority over a muscular mountain of human
fresh.

She meant to imply that he was lost as he
was, but worth the trouble of saving ; only, he
must let himself be saved by obedience to her.

I do not pretend to be as good as you,
Hortensia," he answered with frank good-nature.

This pretty little girl's quaint scolding were
as pleasant to him as if they had been caresses,
and hurt him no more than a little child hurts a
Newfoundland dog.

You ought to try, Randolph ! " said Hortensia,
lofty and uncompromising. '' You should
not suffer yourself to be so impetuous as you

are  so impatient and undisciplined. We do
so much more by meekness and self-control."

Yes, I know all that," he answered. " But
what is a poor rough fellow to do, Hortensia,
when he is born so ? I cannot make myself as
sweet and gentle as you and Miss Branscombe.
And I should not be what I am if I were what
you are," he added with undeniable logic.

Not rough, but undisciplined," she repeated.
And want of discipline is to the character
what roughness is to the actions. It is all the
difference between one man and another."

A very deep and lovely thought," said Mr.
Branscombe, coming into the room. ' Just
such a thought as I should have expected to
hear from the pearl of Highwood  the modern
Evangeline ! "

How kind you are, dear Mr. Branscombe ! "
said Hortensia Lyon, looking as fluttered as
Stella had looked. But the one had been the
agitation of love, the other the gratification of
pleased vanity.

"And what may you have been doing with
yourself, Mr. Mackenzie ? " asked Mr. Branscombe
of Cyril's chosen friend.

He spoke with an indescribable air of half-offensive
patronage. To him Cyril and Randolph
and the whole tribe of practical, athletic

and iincesthetlc young men were little better
than machines with independent volitions 
brutes with the use of speech and a glimmering
of reason. For all the finer purposes of human
life  for all that was, as he used to say,
gracious, supreme, lovely, and of precious de-thoughtfulness
to man,  these muscular leaders
of uncultured men, these huge-limbed pioneers
of civilization were nowhere ; and he valued
them no more than if they had been so many
elephants in broadcloth, or rhinoceroses speaking
English. They were the blind Cyclopes
where he was the elegant and astute Ulysses ; 
they were the lumbering Titans, and he was the
winged Mercury, the divine Apollo, the commanding
Jupiter, supreme above them all.

Not very much, sir," answered Randolph.
"I have taken my Bea. degree, and I am
waiting to see what will turn up. If Cyril
Ponsonby goes to India I should like to go
there too. You know he is like my brother,
and I feel rather blank without him."

Orestes and Pylades ? Jonathan and David,
hey ? " returned Mr. Branscombe with a polite
sneer. " You have warranty, you see, for your
extreme friendship together."

'' Yes," said Randolph simply. " But neither
Pylades nor David was half as good a fellow as

raiq noi{:|m :[ni5|q J9t[:i3.i [99j j pu}
'J9i:[!0jq ici 9I[T]; si 9q AiOU5[ no 'oo: 9i9q:|
o. 0| 9i[T pinoqs j iipni o% sos iqnosnoj
piiCQ ji-dn njn:). I qAi 99S o: .ni|ii3Av
in I pn *99J.o9p-ya iui U95[: 9AT3q j ,,
qdppiiEU p9J9Aisni3 /JTS 'qonni xj9a ojs 

||i3 in9q| 9AoqB 9ra9jdns 'ldn Saipnai
-moo QT]} 'oipdy oniAip oq 'ijno.i9j\[ p9SuTAi
9q| s\3Ai 9q pnT3 'sxib:tx SnTJ9qmn| 9q| 9i9Ai iC9q
'. s9SSiC{fX 9-iSE pii ni3.o9|9 9q: sinai 9q 9i9qAL
sodopCQ pnT{q oq: 9J9Ai Coqx 'FHa }
-:i39ds S9soi90oniqj[ jo 'qoppojq in suiqdop
xium OS U99q pq iC9q| ji uv.Ji% 9ioni on moq:
p9npA 9q pnt3 1 9.i9qAion 9J9av noiEzqiAp jo
si99noid p9qraT-9Snq 9S9q: 'u9ra p9Jn:quoim jo
sj9pi39 ii2|nosnin 9S9q'|  'ueui o: ss9n|nj:qSi][
-9p snop9jd JO pni3 'pAO '9ra9jdns 'snopjS
'i-BS 0| p9sn oq si? 'si3av :T3q; |p oj 9jt|
iiranq jo sosodjnd J9n 9q:  K 'ose9i jo
Smj9raniiS 'b pni? qo99ds jo osii 9q qTAi S9:njq
snoqoA U9pn9d9puT qiAv S9nupi3m uiqi
J9;9q 9[:;q 9J9av U9in SiinoA oipqsecun puu

2GX 7ri77z>:>' injiiiivd sm

'' Oh, papa ! " said Stella. " Poor Cyril ! he is
not to be compared either to an owl or a carthorse
! "

If Randolph had been hard put to it to keep
his loyalty to his two dear friends intact under
the trial ordained by Mr. Branscombe, so was
poor Stella. She loved Cyril and she loved her
father ; she honoured both impartially, and she
believed as much in the one as in the other. It
was a dreadful thing to her to hear her father,
who was as her king and conscience, speak
slightingly of her lover, who was her ideal of
young manhood. She could not be angry with
papa whatever he might do. That would be
impiety ; and Stella was not impious. But
neither could she hear poor darling Cyril
spoken of with disdain, nor compared to an ugly
barn-owl and a coarse cart-horse without
making her protest in defence.

My dear, you speak with the fond imagination
of a romantic and love-sick girl," said Mr.
Branscombe calmly. " I, who have my reason
undisturbed, and who know men and manners,
am better able than you to catalogue that
young man. I grant him all the virtues of the
natural man  all the uncouth virtues as I may
say ; but of the finer perceptions which come
from culture, he has not a trace ; and in asserting

that lie has you but betray your own lack.
Let us pass to another subject. This does not
interest nor amuse me."

How is your great picture getting on, Mr.
Branscombe ? " asked Hortensia with kindly
haste.

She was as distressed as Eandolph by this
sudden onslaught which both knew cut poor
Stella to the heart.

Come and see," he answered, rising and
offering her his arm. " When you have given
me the benefit of your fresh young criticism I
shall be more satisfied with my work. We
shall return immediately, my Stella. Do not
give yourself the trouble of following us. I do
not think Mr. Eandolph Mackenzie will care for
what he may find in my poor studio," he added
with a disagreeable smile.

Yes, indeed, sir, I do," said Eandolph, heroically
fibbing.

But though he rose from his seat, prepared to
go with his cousin and her flatterer, Stella did
not move. Something stronger than even her
desire to please her father held her back. She
must have a word alone with Eandolph. She
must speak of Cyril without restraint or unfriendly
witnesses.

When, where, did you see him last ? " she

asked hurriedly, so soon as the door was
shut. " How was he ? How did he look ?
What did he say ? Poor Cyril ! Poor darling
Cyril ! Oh Eandolph ! I sometimes feel as if
I should like to die  as if I could not live and
know my poor darling Cyril to be so unhappy
 and through me  for all that it was
my duty ! "

' Don't cry, bliss Stella, please don't," said
Cyril's chum affectionately and with genuine
distress, not knowing what to do for the best
and as much afraid of his own sympathetic
impulses as he was sorry for her grief. " He
was very down, poor old man, and feels his disappointment
terribly," he went on to say
frankly, not being good at quick subterfuge.
He sent all sorts of messages to you ; said I
was to give you his love and that you were
never to doubt him, never to forget him, nor
think that he would forget you ; that you were
to believe in him whatever you might hear, for
that he would be true and faithful to the last
and would wait for your promise to the end of
his life. Only you were not to give him up.
You were to be firm to him as he would be to
you, and hold yourself always engaged though
you were separated."

'' So I will," said Stella. " Nothing should

make nie give him up. The engagement is not
broken, only postponed ; and unless he wants to
break it off I will not."

No ; I am sure you will not," said Randolph,
warmly. " But tell me. Miss Stella, why has
Mr. Branscombe taken such a dislike to him?
Did Cyril offend him in any way ? I know he
would not have done so intentionally, and if he
did, it was quite by accident and mistake. I
was never more taken aback in my life when
he let fly like that ! "

Nor was I," said Stella, turning pale. " I
cannot understand him ! Papa is so wise and
good and just and noble, I cannot make it out.
Cyril perhaps vexed him because he would not at
the very first consent to postpone our marriage ;
but papa said nothing so bitter then as he did
to-day  at least not to me. Cyril told me that
he had been rather hard on him when they
were alone."

"Yes, he told me too, that Mr. Branscombe
had been uncommonly rough on him," said
Randolph in his more familiar vernacular.
But you do not mind, do you, Miss Stella ?
and you will not be influenced ? "

No," said Stella firmly ; ' not even papa
could turn me against Cyril."

That is right ! That is just what I expected

! " said Cyril's chum with almost passionate
warmth. " I think my cousin one of the
dearest and best girls in the world, but I think
you are even better. I never pitied Cyril so
much as now, when I see more clearly than I
ever did what he has lost. If I had a saint
I would make you that saint, Miss Stella.
They gave you the right name  Stella, the
Star ! ' "

He said all this with a rush of excitement
and passionate enthusiasm which would have
drawn on him the rebuke of his self-controlled
little cousin, had she heard it. But something
seemed to carry him away in spite of himself.
He had always admired Stella Branscombe, had
always loved her as his sister for Cyril's sake ;
but he had never known half her goodness, half
her beauty, until to-day. And he had never,
as he said, pitied Cyril so much as now, nor felt
that strange flood of something which was like
envy without its bitterness and with only its
yearning desire for a like portion to be meted
out to himself.

We will always be kind to him, you and I?"
he said, still as strongly moved as before. " If
the whole world deserts him we wil be faithful,
you and I ? " he repeated.

' Yes," she said, giving him her hand.

He raised it to his lips, moved to strange
reverence and poetry of mood.

Beautiful Stella ! " he said in an under voice.
** Cyril's Star  and mine ! "

CHAPTER XII.

THOSE MISS PENNEFATHERS.

In almost every country society is a family
the girls of which go by the name of " those " 
those Miss Browns," or " that Miss Smith "
girls who are credited with all the faults and
follies accidental to a misguided youth and
more than ordinarily peccant humanity  girls
who may be thankful if they escape without
graver scandals sticking like unclean burrs to
their names, and who may think themselves
fortunate if they find one person in the place
who will stand by them heartily and courageously.


Now the two Misses Pennefather were the
those " of High wood ; and it must be confessed
that they did something to earn their
title. George and Pattie Pennefather, or, as
the irreverent were wont to call them, Grip and

Pip, were the standing target for all the
poisoned arrows of ill-nature stored up in the
society hereabouts. And a society whereof old
Mrs. Morshead was an eminent and influential
member, was pretty certain to have a respectable
store of these same poisoned arrows, and to be
just as certain to use them freely.

Mrs. Morshead, never weary of " flinging her
five fingers in the face " of the human family in
general, flung them with special disdain and
abhorrence in the faces of 'those Miss Penne-fathers."
They represented to her the whole
circle of nineteenth-century iniquity, from tight
dresses and high heels to Professional Beauties
and the thronged lobbies of the Divorce Court ;
and it was only paying proper homage to good
manners to deny that they had any at all.
'those Miss Pennefathers " carried on their
nicely-shaped little backs wallets filled with
every fault and impropriety short of glaring
vice, that English girls of good family could
have, while denied the possession of any pretty
little fringe or plume of virtue to soften the
ugliness of these sinful packets. They were
fast, bold, loud, vulgar, idle and objectionable
young hussies all round ; and as for their good
looks, of which they were so absurdly vain and
which silly people made so much fuss about,

Mrs. Morshead protested she did not see them ;
and thought the whole family downright plain,
and those two horrid girls the plainest of the
lot. They were at the bottom of all the mischief
of the place ; and if the place did its duty by
itself, they would be cut, as they deserved.
Their dress was positively improper ; and their
manners were like those of two barmaid or
cigar-girls, rather than of young ladies whose
mother was an Honourable. When some one
bolder or more generous than the rest, objected
to her sweeping condemnations, and pointed out
a few forgotten graces  as, that they were very
good-natured and never said unkind things of
their neighbours ; or, very charitable, and did a
great many kind deeds to the poor ; that they
were really not so wild and extravagant as they
seemed to be, but had the art of making a little
go a great way, and a big show out of small
material  she used to quite lose herself in her
wrath, and declare that at her age she ought to
know one thing from another, and be allowed
to express her opinion without fear of contradiction
from her juniors. She knew what
she was talking about when she said those Miss
Pennefathers were a disgrace to the place ; and
that if it were not for the father and mother 
who however did not deserve so much consideration

 she for one would never suffer
them inside her house again. But then she had
always been too considerate for others, she
would go on to say in perfect sincerity and
faithfully believing in her own words ; and much
thanks she had got for it from any one ! Certainly
she had got none from those Pennefather
people, who had not once sent to ask after her
when she had lost her favourite Skye, her
beloved and precious little Joe. Those Miss
Pennefathers, in a word  those laughing, gay,
and careless twins  were about the bitterest of
the many bitter drops in the cross old woman's
jaundiced cup of life, and stood at the highest
point in her cruel scale of condemnation.

She did not really love any human being 
her daughter and her bonny little grandson not
excepted  but even she drew distinctions and
disliked some more than others. Between
Hortensia Lyon and those Miss Pennefathers ;
while she ridiculed the former for her puritanical
affections, she vilified the latter for their
want of all the decencies of life and habits ;
or between Stella Branscombe and these two
hussies, this Grip and Pip whom all the young-men
called by their names like their sisters,
though no one, she used to add with a sneer,
ever thought of marrying them  though Stella

was really sickening, with her dear papa here
and her dear papa there, dear papa's poems and
dear papa's paintings, the beautiful oratorio that
dear papa has just composed, and the dear little
song that dear papa wrote out last night, still,
said Mrs. Morshead, her excess of admiration,
silly and exaggerated as it was, was not so bad
as their want of respect. Mater and the Governor
Mater so awfully jolly in a house and the
Governor the dearest old boy in the world 
where did they expect to go to when they could
say such things as these ! It would be impiety
to doubt what would be their end.

"Ah!" said Mrs. Morshead, shaking her
high-capped old head viciously ; "let me have
the management of those Miss Pennefathers for
six months! I would Mater them, I can tell
you! If I had not taught them propriety by
then, I would  I don't know what I would not
do !  eat my own fingers  I declare I would !
And this is the kind of thing that you approve
of, Augusta," she added angrily. " And if I did
not keep you in hand, and make you respectful
in spite of yourself, you would Mater me, I
suppose ? Not while I am alive ! Not if I had
to die for it ! "

You and I are different from the Penne-father
girls and their mother," said Augusta

VOL. I. p

quietly. "I do not approve of their manners,
as you know ; but," she added a little imprudently,
" I cannot help seeing that they are very
good-hearted, good-tempered things, and always
ready to do any one a kindness."

Charity begins at home," snapped Mrs.
Morshead. " I have no opinion of your very
kind people who make all the world their bosom
friends, and run about with baskets and all that,
when they ought to be sitting quietly at home,
darning their stockings and looking after the
maids. It is only another form of idleness and
want of domestic duty ; and I would not give
sixpence for the kindness and good-heartiness
of these two young minxes  these precious
friends of yours ! Give me something more
sterling ; something that makes home home !
Ah ! my pretty boy ! " she suddenly added in a
caressing tone, as a huge Persian cat slowly
raised himself from a purple velvet cushion
where he had been sleeping by the side of her
chair, and lightly leapt into her lap. " My
precious Shah ! my beauty ! my dear old boy ! "
she continued, stroking him fondly. " You at
least love your mistress and do not tell lies, ordo
wickedness. If all the world was like you,
my pretty! But he must not eat the birds 
the pretty little birds ! No ! no ! he must not

do that, old dear ! And Augusta ! " to her
daughter, sharply ; ''if that Tony of yours
drags this cat about as he does, I will slap his
hands the next time I see him. So mind, I
give you warning. I shall have the creature
strangled some day, if I don't take care ! Do
you hear me, Augusta ? "

Yes, mamma, I will tell Tony to be more
careful," her daughter answered in her calm,
smooth way ; while the old woman grumbled
out : " Yes, you had better ! " and then fell to
kissing and caressing her cat once more.

"We all have our soft points, and this was
Mrs. Morshead's :  She loved animals  this love
culminating in a species of idolatry for her
Persian cat. Animals were to her what friends
and lovers are to others ; and to them she gave
all the love and respect which she denied to
her own kind. Men and women were vile ;
children were simply imps in embryo ; society
was a mass of iniquity from end to end ; human
motives were all corrupt ; but cats and dogs and
cows and horses were heirs of all the virtues
and those who ill-treated dumb creatures were
infinitely more criminal than those who oppressed
and half-murdered their own brethren.
But her love for animals was eminently false
and unwholesome. It was not the overflow of

that large and comprehensive sympathy whiche
having first done its normal work, finds new
channels of benevolence. It was simply a
substitute for human kindness and took to itself
what was due to man. Thus, she gave nothing
to schools, hospitals, or asylums, but she subscribed
largely to the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, to the Home for Lost
Dogs, and she was one of the most generous
benefactors, as well as one of the most active
propagandists, for the Anti-vivisection Society,
which, perhaps, she held as the most important
of all. Against the physiologists indeed, she
was specially irate, and would rather, she said,
have the whole human race decimated by disease
than insure the health and well-being of the
world by the sacrifice of a rabbit or a guinea-pig.
Men had not made such a good thing of life,
according to her, that they should be perpetuated
by vicarious suffering. Let them perish from
off the face of the earth, but let the dear dumb
brutes remain untroubled and undisturbed. All
the same she eat her beef and mutton, her lamb
and veal and chicken with a clear conscience ;
and when Sandro Kemp once urged this flesh-eating
against her theories, as a proof of the
universal law of transmutation for the one part,
and of the need of human supremacy for the

other, she told him he was impious and desired
him to change the conversation.

If only she had given her own kind a little of
the compassion that she lavished on those dear
dumb brutes ! But she tyrannized over her
daughter ; treated her little grandson with fatal
harshness ; made her service one of pain and
fear to her domestics ; and took away the fine
flavour of repute from two young girls whose
only sin was in their heedlessness, their beauty
and their youth. This was not cruelty according
to her ; but to hurt any creature with four
legs was a crime which a Christian legislature
should make punishable as felony.

If Mrs. Morshead disliked " those Miss Penne-fathers,"
the twins shrank with as much antipathy
from her. For all their careless and
unthinking natures, for all their buoyancy and
elasticity of spirit, there was something in the
old woman's persistent sourness and opposition
which oppressed them as nothing else did. They
liked Augusta  indeed no one could fail to like
her, even-tempered and reasonable as she was ;
and they pitied her and little Tony more than
they pitied the poorest person in the parish ;
but old Mrs. Morshead was a horror, and more
than they could stand, save under the strongest
compulsion of social necessity. When they paid

lier the visits demanded by duty and politeness,
they paid them as seldom and made them as
short as they could, while doing their best to
avoid pitfalls and stumbling blocks of offence.
This was the hardest part of the business.
Walking blindfold among burning ploughshares
was nothing to it, and skating on thin ice was
comparatively safe going. With Mrs. Morshead
the burning ploughshares were as thick as
pebbles on the seashore and the ice was nevermore
than a mere film which gave way as soon
as touched. Hence their visits were both brief
and rare ; and as Mrs. Morshead in common withall
tyrants, liked to be able to bully ad libitum,
but to be made as much of as if she were the
sweetest creature alive, she resented as a personal
insult the slackness of intercourse which was
the order between The Laurels and Sherrardine,
where the Pennefathers lived.

In truth, she resented everything whatever
about the Pennefathers, whether affecting herself
or no. All the circumstances of the family
made one huge conglomerate of annoyances,
one great bete noire against which she waged
incessant and ineffectual war. The very name
was an offence. Pennefather ! What a mouthful
it was, and how absurd altogether ! Penne-father
here and Moneypenny there  one would

think that Highwood had been originally
peopled by coiners, she said, putting her old
prunella-slippered feet on all the rules of philology.
And the affectation of their calling
their place Sherrardine, because Mrs. Penne-father's
father had lived at Sherrards, the family
place, for the few years of his Yiscountship ! 
As if any one cared to know that they had a
Viscount in the family  tacking themselves on
like that to the aristocracy simply because that
silly woman was an Honourable ! They were
substantially only simple commoners like anyone
else, and not so good as some others. For,
if report said true, they had enough to do to
make both ends meet in their noisy, riotous, untidy
household. And if those Miss Pennefathers
kept at home a little more than they did, and
thought more of their duties and less of their
dress, it would be far better for them and everyone
connected with them. And if they paid
their bills more punctually and gave fewer
dances and garden-parties, and all that nonsense,
it would be more to their credit. And so she,
Mrs. Morshead, would tell them some day. If
Mr. and Mrs. Pennefather did not know how to
guide their own children aright, it was the
duty of a Christian matron of her age and
experience  the oldest inhabitant of the parish

and perhaps if all people had their due the most
respectable  it was her duty to give them a
little friendly advice and tell them what the
world said of them.

She was full of this resolution when the doorbell
rang and the servant ushered in the Misses
Pennefathers, as he might have ushered in two
young lion-cubs fresh from the jungle.

Crisp, curly, jet-black hair, surmounted by
audacious white-beaver hats turned up short on
one side and flapping low down on the other ;
four roving, bright and dark-brown eyes set
under brows as straight as if they had been
ruled by a line and as black as if they had been
drawn in ink ; two pretty little Koxalana noses ;
wide, smiling, almost scarlet lips, showing a full
set of small square teeth when they laughed  and
they were always laughing ; cheeks dotted with
dimples and as bright as damask roses in the
sun ; stature just five feet three, exact measurement,
not a millimetre more or less in either ;
trim, well-busked figures, draped in showy garments
tied tightly back to the full display of all
the gracious curves and generous outlines, the
modelling and shaping of art and nature
combined ; loud voices as clear as silver bells ;
frank manners knowing no fear and seeking no
favour ; an atmosphere of unchecked gaiety, of

abounding* vitality, of girlish ,
of the very insolence of youthful happiness
; this was the best description that could
be given of the two Misses Pennefathers, that
Gip and Pip whom all men loved and no one
wished to marry, and who were to Mrs. Mors-head
the very head and ears of her biggest bete
noire.

Poor, laughing, heedless Grip and Pip ! The
day had come when their orchestral visit to
that sour old Mrs. Morshead had to be paid ; and
they paid it for duty's sake and Augusta's.
But it was a corvee, a fighting with wild beasts
by no means agreeable to contemplate, and one
where they knew they should come ofT the
worst.

In they came with that general look of flush
and hurry and taking life and circumstances
by storm which was characteristic of them.
Exactly alike in dress and person they were
to Mrs. Morshead a reduplication of offence.
She never knew which from which ; nor did
any one, indeed ; so that it was impossible
to take refuge from one with the other, or to
change the venue and mitigate the nuisance.
There they both were, one just like the other ;
their bright eyes roving round the room in the
purposeless way of bright eyes conscious of

their beauty, their voices clanging with loud
but not unmelodious force, and their whole
manner and appearance curiously suggestive of
audacity, defiance and good-temper.

"How do you do, Mrs. Morshead?" both
said in a breath. "What a lovely day, isn't
it ? How do you do, Augusta dear ? Isn't it
splendid weather ? "

I never remember such splendid weather,
do you?" Grip went on to say, in her loud,
clear voice that reminded you of a cascade, it
was so hurried, impetuous, and continuous.
"And they say it's going to last for ever so-long
; that's awfully jolly news, isn't it ? And
so we are going to give a picnic on the strength
of it ; and you will come to it, of course,
Augusta? All our friends are coming, and
some from London, too. The Cowley boys will
be here, and our own boys are at home now 
Jemmy came last night "  Jemmy was a young
sub-lieutenant in the navy, waiting for his ship
"and Colonel Moneypcnny, nice old boy,
says that he will come too and bring the
champagne ; and Sandro Kemp is to put us all
into a picture  and Sandro is a great admirer of
yours, Augusta, and is always talking about
you ; so is Colonel Moneypcnny, too so you will
have two strings to your bow if you come ; and,,

as times go, that is a very fair allowance for
one woman and more than any one else will
have ! "

Here Gip laughed like a musical peal of
thunder, and Pip laughed too, for company.
Mrs. Morshead shot out her under-lip and put
up her hands to her head.

Good gracious ! " she said crossly.

"What is the matter with you, Mrs. Mors-head
? " asked Pip sympathetically. " Have you
a headache ? I'm awfully sorry, I'm sure !
Headaches must he such awfully disgusting
things. I never had one in my life, except
when I fell from the apple-tree and pitched
right on the back of my poor little nut. And
then it ached like fury. I thought it was allover
with me, and I was never so frightened
in my life. It was sickening. But it taught
me to he careful how I trusted to those horrid
old rotten branches again. The apples were
prime, for all that, and worth a spill that didn't
quite do for one."

' Perhaps, Miss Pennefather, you wall be good
enough to translate what you have said into
English," said Mrs. Morshead, when Pattie
stopped to take breath. '' I am not of the new
school, I am thankful to say, and I do not
understand slang."

*' Oh, I am sure, T am awfully sorry if I slung-you
any slang," said Pip penitentially. '' You
see we are so used to it from the boys when
they come home that it slips out when one
doesn't mean it. But, indeed, every one talks
slang nowadays ; you can't get on without. A
girl looks such a stick when she does not talk
like the rest ; and I hate sticky girls. Neither
George nor I are sticks ; and we don't patronize
the breed at home."

And at this she laughed in her turn, and Grip
joined in without knowing why ; and again
Mrs. Morshead put np her hands to her ears and
shot out her under-lip.

Upon my word, Miss Pennefather, you and
your sister are the two very noisiest joung
ladies of my acquaintance," she said angrily.

Pip laughed and Gip laughed.

"" Well, I grant you, Mrs. Morshead, we are
not of the mealy-mouthed mum kind," said the
former, whose turn it was this time to undertake
the terrible old woman. It had been her
sister's in their last visit.

You might be more like ladies and yet not
mum or mealy-mouthed, as you elegantly express
it," said Mrs. Morshead. " You are like
two  I don't know what, in a room."

Oh, we are nothing!" cried Pip audaciously.

"' You should hear the boys, how they sing out
all over the place ! They make such a row that
sometimes you can hardly hear yourself speak.
Even Mater, who is the dearest old lady in the
world, can't always stand it, and is obliged to
tell them to shut up. And when Jemmy comes
home, it is just awful, the stramash that goes on
from morning to night ! But Jem is awfully
good fun and spins the jolliest yarns ! He is a
dear old man, and looks awfully handsome in
this uniform, with all its gagits ! "

;" No ; I cannot and will not bear it ! " cried
sirs. Morshead, roused to that point of disgust
which lies beyond endurance. " Miss Penne-father,
your language is simply disgraceful ; and
if your own parents allow you to use words
which are never heard in any lady's drawings
I do not. In my house, you will please
to remember, that you are talking to a lady and
you will behave like ladies  if you can."
I am awfully sorry  " began Pip.

;'"No, you are not awfully sorry  not awfully
anything," interrupted Mrs. hogshead. " I am
very glad if you feel ashamed of yourself,
Because then perhaps you may improve ; but
there is no improvement possible while you use
that most objectionable and foolish expression."
Pip looked at her sister and made a slight

grimace ; her sister looked at her and repeated
the sign.

I think it's time to go, Patrick," said Gip
as a diversion. " We have no end of things todo,
you know. So you'll be sure to come next
Wednesday ? " she added, turning to Augusta.
At Crossings Bridge, remember ; two o'clock
sharp ; and if possible to bring a basket of
gooseberries, do. You have awfully fine ones I
know ; and fruit is always good gear in a
picnic."

What are you saying ? What are you
asking ? " said Mrs. Morshead savagely.

We are giving a picnic, and we want
Augusta," said Gip boldly.

My daughter cannot go," said Mrs. Mors-head
; and as she spoke she planted her heavy
old feet firmly on the footstool.

''Oh, Mrs. Morshead ! " cried both the sisters
together. " It will not be half the fun without
Augusta."

'' Mrs. Latrobe has her duties at home," said
the terrible old woman, fixing her eyes with a
stony stare on her daughter.

The delicate pink flush came up on the
comely cheeks, but Augusta's voice and manner
were as smooth and soft and unruffled as they
always were.

Do you want rne at home, mania ? " lie
asked with perfect serenity.

Do I want you at home ? That an absurd
question ! " said Mrs. Morshead. '' I do not
want you at home, if you mean that, for you are
not of much use to me at any time ; but I
should like to know what is to become of that
boy of yours if you go out for the whole day
like this ? Do you expect me to be his nurse ?
And you know that I strongly object to his
being in the kitchen with the servants."

Oh, Tony comes too ! He is such a jolly
little chap, and we are all so fond of him," said
Gip. " Certainly, you must bring the old
man ! " she added to Augusta. '' That need not
keep you ; so now of course you will come ? "

If you really do not want me at home,
mamma, it would be pleasant for the child and
would keep him out of your way," said Augusta,
to whom the prospect of a day's freedom from
her mother was a boon too great to be refused
if in any way possible to be accepted.

Anything for pleasure and gadding about,"
said Mrs. Morshead. " At your age, Augusta 
a widow as you are, with a dear little boy to
educate and look after  I wonder at you for
your greediness after amusement ! It is not
decent. When a woman has been married and

left a widow as you have been  and under all
the peculiar circumstances of your case"  she
added with cruel significance, " I think she
ought to content herself with home and home
duties, and leave all this idleness to young
ladies like the Miss Penne fathers for instance 
young ladies who have nothing to think of, and
no heads for anything but pleasure if they had'*

Oh, Mrs. Morshead, a little fun is good for
every one," said Pattie. " And Augusta is so
nice in a thing of this kind."

Of course I would not go if you did not
wish it, mamma," said Augusta cheerfully.
But if you do not want me for anything,
indeed I should like it. You are going to
Greenhill Falls, you say ? " turning to dip.
It is years and years since I was there. I
should like it so much if I can be spared."

As for sparing you, I can spare you well
enough," answered Mrs. Morshead ; " for you do
not make yourself so very useful, Augusta, that
you cannot be spared, if that is what you mean.
What I object to is the principle. A woman of
your age, and after what should have been such
a sobering experience, flying over the country
with a parcel of giddy gigglers just as if you
were a girl yourself  it is not becoming and
not decent, as I said."

Just this once, Mrs. Morshead ! " pleaded
Gip.

She will help to keep all of us young ones
in order," added Pip.

It would be very nice to see the dear old
Falls again," said Augusta. '' I remember so
well the first time I went with you, mamma. I
was just my little Tony's age, and I remember
how you took me in your arms and carried me
over the wet places in the field."

Ah ! " sighed Mrs. Morshead, shaking her
head ; " there are not many such mothers as I
was to you, Augusta. And finely you have
repaid me ! But I have never been hard to
you, bad a daughter as you have been to me.
If you want to go and take the child with you I
am sure I do not wish to stand in your way. I
do not like all this gadding about, as you know,
but I do not care for mere lip-service, mere
grudging obedience. Go if you like. I do not
mind being left alone all the day with no one to
speak to. I am used to my loneliness. Oh, yes,
certainly ; go and enjoy yourself. Do not mind
me. I am an old woman of no good to any one
only fit to be dead and buried."

Not quite that, mamma," said Augusta ;
but if you really do not care "  turning to
Gip she added ; " I will be at Crossing's Bridge

VOL. I.

next Wednesday, at ten o'clock punctually ; and
I dare say mamma will let me bring a basket
of gooseberries with us."

Shall I order Page to give you all the
peaches and grapes in the hothouse ? ' asked
Mrs. Morshead sarcastically.

Oh, thanks, Mrs. Morshead ! " answered Pip
with exasperating gratitude. " That would be
good gear! How awfully jolly! You are
really quite too awfully good ! "

Well, as I am not quite a fool I do not
think I will empty my hothouse for your
picnic," said Mrs. Morshead, still satirically.

On which the two girls laughed, as at a good
joke, and then took their leave. Grip saying in a
whisper to Augusta :

And mind you make yourself awfully killing,
for I want you to look your very best.
We are not going to have a single stick among
us, and we are going in for a pocketful of fun
all round. It is jolly that you are coming," she
added affectionately. " We were in an awful
fright that you wouldn't be let."

Well ! " said Grip to Pip, as soon as they
had got safely outside the door ; ''of all the
awful old toads that ever lived that Mrs. Mors-head
is the worst ! How I pity that poor, dear
Augusta, and what an angel she is ! "

If I had such a scarecrow for my mother,
I would give her pepper, and make it hot,"
answered reckless Pip. " Ugh ! It gives the
back shivers ! " she added, shuddering. " I
declare I feel as if I was all over nasty breeches


She is a horror," returned Grip. " How I
wish that stupid old Moneypenny would makeup
his mind and marry poor Augusta out of
hand. It would be only charity to save her
from such an old Turk as that mother of hers.
Poor Augusta ! What a life she must lead ! "

I wouldn't be her for five thousand a year,"
said Pip energetically. " I would rather sweep
a crossing or break stones on the road ! "

I should prefer the crossing," said Gip with
a reflective air. " It's good gear to sweep a
crossing in a club-street; and one would get
one's self up to look awfully killing in a Dolly
Warden."

And perhaps catch a lord," said low-minded
Pip.

That would be jolly," returned her sister.
What would you be married in, Patrick ? "

Cream-satin," said Pip with commendable
promptitude. " What would you, George ? "

Cream-satin, too," was the answer.

And then they both went off into a discussion

on those extremely problematical bridal
dresses of theirs, and those wedding tours
which at present were all about the grounds of
Spanish Castles ; and agreed, as they always
did, down to the last square inch of " kilting,"
and the remotest little fact of their journey.

They had never quarrelled since they were
born ; and in the family they were known by
the name of the Doves, when not the Inseparable
or the Siamese, Castor and Pollux feminine,
or the Cherry bless  which last word had
the advantage of uniting two ideas in one skin,
according to the phraseology of sub-lieutenant
Jemmy, whose brilliant idea it was.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE FAMILY AT SHERRARDIXE.

It was the loudest, noisiest, best tempered, most
unscliolarly and most generous family in the
county. There was not a potential genius nora
present student among them, but there was
not a coward nor a " crab," as they called the
cross-grained when speaking among themselves
not one who would have told a lie to have
saved his life, nor who would have forfeited his
honour to have redeemed his fortune.

There were six of them for the first and
most important batch  the twins leading off
the family ball, as they used to say, followed
in less than a year by Jemmy, the sub-lieutenant,
with three other boys all treading
on each other's heels as closely as might be.
Then came a gap of ten years, when the circle
was finally closed by the advent of a pretty
little girl as the general plaything and universal

delight. Thus the family proper  Nora
not counting ; being a kind of offset and
common property  had the appearance of being
all of one age. For Jack, the youngest, was
as tall and almost as strong at seventeen as
was Jemmy at twenty ; and among the four
there was not half an inch of difference in
height nor two pounds to spare in weight.
The whole six were fashioned after the same
pattern  the boys being just as dark-haired,
as bright-eyed, as loud-voiced and as socially
audacious as the Doves : and, to a stranger, it
was the oddest as well as the most bewildering
thing in the world to see them all assembled
together. It was impossible to tell which was
which, until you had learned the minor signs.
Even in the family itself mistakes in voices
and backs were continually being made ; and,
as for George and Pattie, no one knew one
from the other without her distinctive brooch.
It was one of the favourite amusements of these
two curly-headed young scamps to play practical
jokes on the household by reason of their
strange resemblance ; and good-humoured rows
were always going on because Jemmy said it
was Grip who had picked that ripe peach which
he had been watching, and Jack swore that it
was Pip, and neither of the accused would tell

which it was. When they changed or took off
their signboards, as their silver name-brooches
were generally called, not the mother herself
knew them apart. And if she did not who
else could ? As for the boys, they borrowed
each other's names and wore each other's
clothes with perfect impartiality ; and thus the
Pennefather family had a queer shifting phantasmagoric
kind of personality which made each
member responsible for the follies committed
by the whole together, to the destruction of all
identity and the accumulation of individual
blame.

It might have been supposed that the father
and mother would have done something to
keep all these turbulent elements in some kind
of order ; but Mr. Pennefather was still only
a great boy himself, and Mrs. Pennefather was
one of those good-tempered, careless kind of
women who never look beyond the day, and
who only desire to see people happy about
them. Her motherhood was comprised in two
things only  to keep her children in good
health and to let them be happy in their own
way. She would have been very glad if they
could have sucked in learning' with their
oranges, but she objected to their being forced
to learn against their will ; and she would

rather they were well-grown, vigorous, lighthearted
dunces than leaders of the world's best
thoughts by the sacrifice of the sunshine and
laughter of their youth. She had married
when only just seventeen ; so that both she and
her husband were even now in the very zenith
of their own lives and far more the play-fellows
than the guides or rulers of their children.
Add to which, the consciousness of her aristocratic
lineage, which lifted them above the level
of the village-herd and absolved them from the
obligation of class conformity and spiritless
respect for other people's prejudices, and just
so much income as gave them all they wanted
with a scramble  and their wildness, their
audacity, their ingrained Bohemianism can be
accounted for ; if to some the explanation
carried with it no justification ;  as especially
did it not to Mrs. Morshead and that other
member of her social bete noire, Mr. Branscombe.


To Mr. Branscombe indeed, this noisy, unscholarly
and anaesthetic family was intensely
antipathetic ; and he and Mrs. Morshead drove
their little chariots of condemnation side by
side over the Pennefather course ; though even
here they did not agree, save in their joint end
of vilifying these social abominations.

To express his feelings, as well as to relieve
his mind, the elegant Mr. Branscombe once
drew a caricature which represented all the
Pennefathers as rather curious-looking savages
shooting arrows at an Apollo, crowned with
bay and holding his lyre in his hand. The
figure which did duty for the great god of
light and poetry had as much of his own likeness
as he could manage to give it ; and the
drawing was after his special manner  proudly
independent of anatomy, proportion and perspective.
The arrows were going all ways but
the right, and would have hit the moon sooner
than the god ; and the eight savages were very
little above the artistic ability of the ploughboy's
chalk-drawing on the barn door. But
Mr. Branscombe saw in it his intention rather
than the execution, and, under solemn promise
of secrecy from each in turn, handed it about
among the neighbours. And all save Mrs.
Morshead basely laughed and hypocritically
pronounced it clever and wonderfully amusing.
But the terrible old woman, who also scorned
a lie, when she gave it back said to Mr. Branscombe
:

'' Well ! all I can say is, this is not my idea
of drawing; and those things are no more
]ike the Pennefathers than they are like me.

They are not human beings at all ; you might
as well call them tadpoles at once."

Ah, my dear lady," said Mr. Branscombe
with sublime tranquillity ; "it takes an education
to understand true art. Only artists can
appreciate artists."

To which Mrs. Morshead snapped for answer :

I know a good thing when I see it, as well
as any one else. But I don't call that good.
I call it a horrid daub."

Mr. Branscombe never forgave that criticism,
nor since then had he set foot in Mrs.
Morshead's house ; and he vowed he never
would.

It mattered little to the Pennefathers whether
Mr. Branscombe caricatured them or no. The
whole family held him in the supreme contempt,
as a poor creature not worth powder and
shot and to be passed over with the contempt
which great dogs feel for little ones. They
laughed at his aesthetics, his foppery and his
vanity ; and he ridiculed the want in them of
all that they despised in him, and added to it
contempt for the manliness or vigour on which
they most prided themselves. They thought
him a jackass and he thought them earthworms
; they would not have given sixpence
for all his art in a lump, and he would not

have given a penny for all their stamina and
tone.

So the little quarrel ran along the highway
of life between Sherrardine and Rose Hill ; but
when poor Mrs. Branscombe died, it was Mr.
Pennefather who wrote the most feeling note ;
it was Mrs. Pennefather who gave Stella the
most sympathetic kiss on that first visit of condolence
; and it was the six savages who, on the
day of the funeral, felt the most dismal and
sorrowful of all at Highwood, save Augusta
Latrobe and Mrs. Prinsep. Blunt brains for
the finer work of intelligence  these they undoubtedly
had ; but the creatures had good
hearts ; and if logarithms were as a sealed
book to them, human kindness was their daily
primer. Resentment and constancy of ill-feeling
were as little in their way as the higher
branches of mathematics or the Hegelian philosophy.
"When the grave closed over the dead
it closed also over the last shred of " misunderstanding
; " and even Mr. Branscombe, who had
all the tenacity of estrangement proper to a
vain man, was forced to accept the olive-branch
and bury the hatchet. This came all the more
easy to him inasmuch as he received their frank
surrender, not as sympathy with his sorrow,
but as homage to his personality ; and to pay

homage to Mr. Branscombe was to possess
yourself of that sentiment which did service
with him for friendship.

The one blot in the picnic that was to come
off was the fact that Stella Branscombe would
not be there.

I suppose it is impossible," said Jemmy
with a slightly sombre air.

The Doves always accused Master Jemmy of
being " hard hit in that quarter."

Oh, well ! " said Grip opening her eyes ; "I
don't think it would quite do to go to a picnic
when one's mother has not been dead six weeks.
What a muir you are, Jem, to talk such
rubbish ! "

I don't see what harm it would do," said
Jemmy. " It must be awfully slow for the poor
girl to be shut up all the day long with only
old Branscombe. I dare say he reads his poetry
to her and plays on the piano as he used in
poor Mrs. Branscombe's time. How sick I
should be ! I'd rather be mast-headed than
listen to one of old Branscombe's yarns 1 "

So would I," said Gip.

' How could you be mast-headed, Gip, when
you are only a girl ? " asked Jemmy gravely ;
for though given to practical jokes the family,
as a family, was profoundly literal.

No, I don't suppose I could be. My petticoats
would come in the way' said Gip ; and
then they both laughed as at a good joke, the
point of which was intelligible only to themselves.


It must be awfully jolly to be a sailor and
a boy," said Gip after they had finished their
laugh and come back to such common sense as
they possessed.

It's not all honey, I can tell you ! " said
Jemmy. " One gets pepper pretty often ; and
then it's stinging hot and no mistake ! "

Then you shouldn't do anything to get
pepper," said Gip sagely. " You could keep out
of it if you liked."

"Oh, it's all very well to say that, Gip ! " said
Jemmy from the height of his superior wisdom.
But no fellow can keep out of it ; and I do
believe those fellows give it to us to keep their
hands in and just for the fun of the thing.
Why the very blue-jackets say we often get
jawed at when we don't deserve it ; and so we
do ; and it's a shame. But it's jolly fun all the
same," added the good-tempered young fellow
laughing again ; '' and I dare say the youngsters
are too cocky and want it taken out of them."

I think you are improved, Jem," said Gip
critically.

Think so ? " he answered. " If I'm not I
ought to be, for I've been jawed at often
enough ! "

I dare say it did you good," said Grip, still
critical.

What did him good ? " asked Mr. Penne-father
coming into the room.

Being jawed at," continued Grip, with no
more consciousness of vulgarity than she had
of crime.

Ah ! you youngsters want the dust taken
out of your jackets," said the father of the flock,
neglecting his duty of rebuke mainly because
he did not see it.

Well, Pater, you didn't like it when you
were a youngster yourself," said Jemmy. " And
I don't suppose any one ever did."

I don't suppose they did, Jem ; but it has to
be done all the same," answered his father
laughing.

And then all three laughed, as Jem and Gip
had laughed before; the moving cause, which
would have been invisible to every one else,
somehow clear as daylight to them. And at
the sound of that well-known peal Pip, who was
never very far from her companion Dove, came
jumping through the open window, loudly
demanding what the fun was all about and
what was up ?

And when her sister answered : " Pater says
we youngsters have to be jawed at for our
good," Pip joined in the fun, and they went
through a second edition with as much hearty
zeal as they had gone through the first.

Undoubtedly they were the most mindless
and unpoetic set of intellectual savages to be
found within the four seas  and Mr. Branscombe's
refined contempt was so far justified.
And yet, might there not be something better
even than art and poetry and philosophy ? 
Something that atoned for those unidealizing
brains, that childish laughter, those comparatively
low aims of life ?  Something that redeemed
this endless rolling from absolute folly,
because showing that it was not heartlessness if
it was unquestionably mental vacuity ?

To be happy in themselves, inoffensive to
others, to abjure all active ill-nature and todo
such good as they could in charity to the
poor, made about the sum of their philosophy.
No pessimist could have ever taught them the
value of discontent, the good of doubt and disbelief
of mankind at large, or the virtue of turning
outwards all the seamy sides of every person
and every thing. No political economist could
have convinced them of the sin of almscrivino
or the evil of going beyond the market-price in

wages or gratuities. They were utterly and
entirely dense on both these points ; and it was
fighting with bags of wool to demonstrate to
them the enormity of charity or the check given
to the progress of humanity and the improvement
of things by the sin of cheerfulness and
contentment.

Even now, when the last explosion of laughter
because Pater had said jawing was a good thing
for the young, had ceased, a characteristic piece
of their general iniquity was perpetrated. Old
Betty Bailey came whining up to the front door
with her usual story of hunger and distress ;
and would the kind gentleman give her sixpence
? for indeed she was but badly off, and
ailing. And Mr. Pennefather, instead of sending
her about her business and threatening her
with the constable and the lock-up and the
dread Bench on the Saturday, to teach her how
to beg the next time, ordered the old sinner into
the kitchen, where a glass of good beer, a loaf of
bread and a screw of tea were given her, though
every one knew that she made up, from one
thing and another, nigh on four shillings a
week ; and it is possible to live on sixpence a
day. On the basis of that sixpence a day Betty
Bailey was rich ; and if she would but have
abjured tea and tobacco she would soon have

been a capitalist. Instead of which, with her
wealth of four shillings a week and potential
saving of two in the month, she came begging
and crying to Sherrardine ; and Mr. Penne-father
gave her doles just as if she had been
poor enough to need them !

It was pauperizing the neighbourhood, of
course, to go on like this ; but the master of
Sherrardine could not be made to see the thing
in the right light or be brought to confess
that he was wrong. Lectured and argued
with by travelling economists he stuck to his
point with the tenacity of a woman, and held
on to his peg when the ground had been
cut to ribbons beneath his feet. He had
only one argument, and he used it with exasperating
consistency, even when he had been
proved guilty of an offence to the community at
large.

The poor creatures are very badly off," he
used to say. " I cannot sit in my own comfortable
home with a good fire and a good dinner
and not feel for their wretchedness. And if I
feel for them I must help them ; and political
economy may go to the deuce."

He was a dense, woolly-headed unscientific
son of Adam, granted ; but there were men in
the world perhaps a little worse than he  men

VOL. I. R

to whom he could have given weight, yet ridden
far past on the road which we generally call
the road to Heaven ; and, all things considered,
society would not have made a bad bargain of it
had it exchanged a few wiry prim-set virtues
for some of his soft and generous faults.

They were all in the same way  all generous,
open-handed, good-natured people who made
war only against peevishness and churlishness
in all their forms, and who thought life
eminently worth living for all who did their
duty and let unpleasant things slide.

After old Betty Bailey had been disposed of
and the girls had told their experience at The
Laurels  how cross Mrs. Morshead was and
how sweet and placid Augusta ; after they had
reckoned up for the twentieth time the names
and numbers of their expected guests at the picnic,
and who was to bring what, they walked
off to the billiard-room ; Pater taking Pip and
Jemmy joining with Grip. The girls were as
fond of sport and games as their brothers and
knew all the tricks with rod and gun and cue,
with pistol, cards and dice, just as if they too
had been born with the privilege of wearing
knicker-lockers and into the inheritance of
beards. They knew a few things more for
which the world did not give them the credit

they deserved ; as, for instance, low to embroider
workhouse sheeting into extraordinarily
showy dresses looking as if they had cost, as
they would have said, a pot of money, but of
which the mercantile value was only a few
shillings. They could trim their hats so as to
fill the souls of their companions with envious
admiration, but the material was little better
than rags and snippets ; and they could make
their own gowns with the help of fashion-books
and here and there a pattern which they bought
or borrowed, and which, being audacious and
extreme, they always exaggerated beyond the
line allowed by others. They were thoroughly
handy girls, albeit of the tom-boy and audacious
kind ; though it must be confessed their
work would not bear looking into and told
best at a distance. But they kept all this
industry, for which no one gave them credit,
for the long winter evenings when the boys
were away and no out-of-door amusements
were to be had. In the summer they would
have thought it a kind of high treason against
the meaning of their existence had they pored
over needlework instead of spreading themselves
abroad in the garden and woods ; and to " amuse
the boys, poor old chaps," when they came home
for their holidays from school, where they

practised every virtue but that of sticking to
their lessons, was the first duty iu the Penne-father
catalogue. Still, the Doves had the
germs of domesticity in them ; and, provided all
the windows might be open night and day  in
snow-time as in sunshine  provided they might
jump into ice-cold water every morning and
take a twelve mile walk, or its equivalent, everyday
 they would make'good wives and managers
enough. At all events, their homes would
never be wanting in pleasantness nor amiability.


As soon as they got into the billiard-room,
the mother and the other boys joined them ; for
they were always together when in the house ;
and the game went on with spirit. The four
were fairly matched, and each made as good
play as the other; and when any one made a
miss or a fluke the whole family gave tongue at
once and the uproar was simply deafening.
Jack and Bob bet on Pip and Pater, Mater and
Dick on Gip and Jem ; and the interest was at
its height, when the sound of wheels on the
gravel, a loud ring at the bell and a sudden
scuffling of feet and chorus of voices in the hall
brought things to a stand-still. A moment
after two well set-up young fellows came
striding into the room, followed by the servants

all in grins, and half a dozen dogs leaping up
and barking; a welcome.

Down went the cues and all abroad were
scattered the balls. Bets, spots, places and
play were forgotten, as the whole Pennefather
family converged to one point, and '* Well, Yal !
Well, Jil ! " was shouted by the eight in
concert.

"Awfully glad to see you, boys," was Mr.
Pennefather's welcome ; '' but you have stolen
a march on us. We didn't expect you till half-past
six."

We took the express and got out at Lingston,"
said one of the young men ; " and then
drove over in a trap. It was better than knocking
about that smoky old Manchester."

So it was ! " they all said together ; and
then they all laughed  as only the Pennefathers
knew how.

Early or late, you are always welcome ! "
said Mrs. Pennefather prettily ; and the boys
and girls endorsed her statement with a volley
of: ''Oh, it's awfully jolly to have you sooner
than we expected ; " and : "It was awful good
fun that you thought of coming that way 1 "

To which the young men replied in the same
strain : " Yes, it was awful good fun ; and the
drive was quite too jolly ! "

After this they all streamed out into the
drawing-room, where they had afternoon tea
and an " awfully jolly pile " of muffins, and
were as happy as youth, good health and unbridled
spirits could make them.

The two young fellows, who had come over
in a dogcart from Lingston at the cost of
another five-and-twenty shillings rather than
knock about Manchester for a couple of hours,
were of much the same kind and class as the
Pennefathers themselves. Known individually
at Sherrardine as Yal and Mil  together as
the Cowley boys  the world in general recognized
them as Mr. Yalentine and Mr. Milford
Cowley, the only sons of Mr. and Mrs. Cowley,
of Greyhurst Manor, Warwickshire. It recognized
one of them too, as heir to a fine property
and winked its wicked eyes when it
discussed their intimacy with the Pennefathers.
Birds of a feather," it said  Mrs. Morshead,
its spokeswoman ; " but it was very convenient
for genteel paupers like the Pennefathers to
have about them birds With golden feathers
like the young Mr. Cowleyss ; and no doubt
those Miss Pennefathers would do their best
to catch them. But if old Mr. and Mrs. Cowley
did their duty they would put an end to the
whole thing and take their sons out of danger.

The Cowley boys, indeed !  Cowley fools if they
did not see the schemes that were on foot, and
victims if they gave in to them ! "

This was Mrs. Morshead's verdict, representing
the suspicious and censorious ; but to no
one at Sherrardine had the chance of Yal or
Mil falling seriously in love with Gip or Pip
ever presented itself as yet  and if the thing
had been suggested to them they would have extinguished
it by peals of interminable laughter.

CHAPTER Xii.

THE REWARD OF SACRIFICE.

Naturally, the picnic to be given next Wednesday
by the Pennefathers was the great
theme of present conversation at High wood.
It was to be a very grand affair, as the neighbourhood
counted grandeur ; and curiosity was
on tip-toe, together with hope and anticipation.

Miss Dawson, the milliner, was in high glee at
the whole affair. She was making a supremely
good thing out of it, for all the young ladies
had something new for the occasion, and trade,
which was generally so slack at the little town,
was stirred up into a very consolatory spasm
of briskness and vitality.

Every one in the place was asked, as well asa
fair sprinkling of those not immediately
bound up with the fortunes of High wood.
And among the rest Hortensia Lyon, with her

parents and Randolph Mackenzie, was invited :
and no doubt was felt by the Pennefathers as
to the glad acceptance of the four. But Hortensia,
the pretty Puritan, was in the age when
works of supererogation and acts of quite unnecessary
self-sacrifice are more delightful than
any other pleasures. Yearning for distinction,
if not publicly in the eyes of men yet privately
and to herself, she could not take things easily
nor let herself go with the crowd. She must
stand apart, and take up a moral pose that
should single her out from the rest. She must
sacrifice what would seem to be her natural
inclination for the greater gain of her conscience
; as now, in this matter of the picnic to
Greenhill Falls.

When the note of invitation, written in Gip's
big round sprawling hand, was brought to the
family at Derwent Lodge, and Mr. Lyon, looking
up from the chess-table where he was playing
a bad game against his wife's worse, said
kindly : " Good news for you, little maid ! "
and Mrs. Lyon, with motherly solicitude,
added : " And you shall have that pretty new
costume which Miss Dawson says she has just
got from Paris  I dare say it only came from
London  but it is the very thing for a picnic,"
Hortensia answered with pious primness :

No ; I shall not go. When Stella Branseombe
is in such sorrow I do not think the Penne-fathers
should have given a picnic at all ; and
certainly I do not think that I ought to goto
it."

Oh, Hortensia, I say ! " remonstrated Randolph.


Stuff ! " said Mr. Lyon good-humouredly.

*' My dear ! " said the mother ; " you cannot
refuse the invitation. It will look so odd if
you, one of the young people of the place,
refuse. You must go, Hortensia."

No, mother ; my conscience would not let
me," said Hortensia gravely.

"Stuff!" again repeated Mr. Lyon; "stuff
and nonsense, child. Are you going to make
yourself talked about all over the place ? "

"I do not care for that if I am conscious
that I am doing my duty," said Hortensia.

All right as a matter of sentiment, I admit,
but the application does not fit," returned her
father. " There is no dereliction of duty in
going to a friendly picnic because poor Mrs.
Branseombe died six weeks ago. You cannot
live by the side of any grave, my child ; not
even by the side of your mother's, when that

sad time comes "  " Thank you, William ! "

said Mrs. Lyon with a displeased smile :  " Still

less are you able to indulge in this kind of
enduring melancholy for one who was only the
mother of your friend."

While Stella is unhappy I will not go to
balls and things ! " said Hortensia, raising her
pretty eyes with a sorrowful look.

But Hortensia, I say ! " remonstrated Randolph
for the second time.

To his good, uncritical and believing soul,
the self-sacrifice of his little cousin was heroic,
saintly, divine ; yet for all that his own grosser
humanity was too strong to make that act of
renunciation acceptable. He loved her for her
sweet and noble intention ; but he wanted it
to stop there and not go on into deed.

Oh, it is only one of her fads ! The child
will never be such a fool. She will think better
of it when the time comes," said Mr. Lyon,
turning back to his game. " Check, my dear.
No, don't do that. If you cover with your
bishop I shall simply take him and you will
be no better off than before. And  no, you
cannot do that either. I have told you twenty
times, Cara, that you cannot castle out of check.
You cannot get out of it ; you are done for 
check ; check ; check and mate. And now, my
little maid, come here to me and let us make
an end of this last bit of silliness."

' It is not silliness, father," said Hortensia
gravely. " I am quite in earnest."

And you do not see that you are casting
a slur on others by your romantic self-sacrifice ?
You very good people never see that, it seems
to me."

I am casting no slur on any one, father."

No ? If it is right for you to abstain
because Mrs. Branscombe died six weeks ago,
then it is wrong for others to enjoy."

"It is right for me because I am Stella's
special friend," said Hortensia, drawing her lips
together.

And your cousin, who is here only for a
short time ? " her father asked, with a merry
glance at Eandolph.

Eandolph will not mind," said Hortensia.

Oh, but I do," said Randolph with energy.
I mind very much indeed, Hortensia. It
will be awfully slow without you or Stella
Branscombe ; and if you don't go I am sure I
don't care to either."

And what will people say if two old folks
like your mother and me go to a thing of this
kind, when our child, for whose sake only all
these frivolous amusements should be undertaken,
stays at home? Yet, it will be a
pleasant day, and the outing will do your

mother good ; and I shall not be sorry to go to
Greenhill Falls once more. It is two years
now since I was there. Besides, I like to see
young people happy. But what will people
say if we go and you do not, eh ? "

It does not much signify what they say,"
returned Hortensia, always in her character of
the faithful witness. " If you do not dislike
going, and do not think it wrong   " She let
her sentence finish itself in silence.

But if I insist ? " her father asked, with
very make-believe sternness and very transparent
severity.

She put her hand in his.

You will not," she said with pretty
solemnity.

But / do, Hortensia ; I do indeed," interposed
her mother hastily. " I think it is all
simply preposterous, and I insist on your going."

No, mother, you will not force me to do
what I think wrong," said Hortensia.

What exaggerated ideas you have, Hortensia
! " said her mother a little hastily. " We
shall be having you find out that it is wrong to
laugh next. It is absurd altogether."

Of her own free will Mrs. Lyon would not
have " played " her daughter as did her husband.
Had she had the sole management of

this exalted little head her rule would have been
more defined and her line considerably shorter.

We cannot help that, Cara," said Mr. Lyon
hastily to his wife, speaking with something
like displeasure. "she must think as she
likes ; of course we have only to take care that
she does not go too far in what she does."

It was a pity, certainly, but he always took
his daughter's part against her mother. He
never scolded her on his own side, even when
he finally forbade any overt act of folly; and
nothing annoyed him so much as his wife's
interference and rebukes. The fact was, he
allowed no one but himself to resist his little
maid ; and had Hortensia been sly, which she
was not, she would have always managed so
that her mother should have opposed her, sure
that then her father would have consented.

Mrs. Lyon sighed impatiently.

You spoil her 1 " she said.

After which she took up her knitting and
kept an ostentatious and affronted silence.

I should be sorry to make you unhappy,
my little maid, but I should be sorry to put a
slight on the kind-hearted Pennefathers, too,"
continued Mr. Lyon, satisfied now that he had
the field to himself.

It will not offend them because / do not go.

am nobody. What matter can it make to
any one whether / go or stay away ? " said
Hortensia with recalcitrant humility.

'' It matters to ns and your cousin," answered
her father.

' If Randolph is going to take Orders, as I
hope he will, he might be better employed than
spending a whole day in idle gaiety. He
ought to begin now to give up the world."

She spoke with the prettiest little air of
puritanical primness conceivable ; but it was a
provoking little air, too, and once more roused
her mother out of her safe entrenchment.

You take too much on yourself, Hortensia,"
she said hastily and with undeniable good sense.
"At your age it is very unbecoming to take
this tone of setting all the world to rights and
being better than your neighbours. I am sick
of all this folly ; and I must insist on it that
you come to your senses and accept this invitation
like any other rational person."

No, no, Cara, we can scarcely do that,"
said Mr. Lyon. " The little maid must not be
forced to do what she really thinks wrong.
You see it is not anything very outrageous 
not like making herself a Zenana missionary,
or a hospital nurse, as was the craze a while
ago  eh, lassie ? But we cannot compel her

against her conscience. We can only persuade.
You take her in hand, Eandolph, and talk to
her," he continued, turning to his nephew for
whom he had so much affection as would willingly
have made him his son. " Perhaps she
will be guided by you. Young people at your
age often understand each other better than we
old ones can."

I am sure I shall not be guided by Randolph
if I am not by you and mother ! " said
Hortensia, with a refreshingly natural outburst
of girlish scorn. " Randolph is not likely to
influence me," she added, meaning that she had
the loftier views and the wider intelligence,
and that it was she who took his mind in tow
not he who could steer hers.

Well ! see what you can do. Ran," said
Mr. Lyon in the tone of one who is tired of a
discussion ; and the rest, taking the hint,
dropped the subject.

But Hortensia was left so far mistress of the
situation in that she had not been dislodged
from her position, and still kept her resolve to
sacrifice the day's pleasure to friendship and
to stand out from the common herd as the one
devoted and unselfish soul among the crowd of
self-seekers  the one faithful Abra who could
mourn with the mourners and sit in the darkness

with those whose sun lead gone out, not
only dance with those avIio piped and laugh
with those who were glad.

Meanwhile nothing more was said at Derwent
Lodge about the picnic, or who would or
would not go. The invitation was accepted
in general form ; and Mr. Lion believed in his
power to make his little maid do as she ought
when the day really came. But the, mother,
who knew the signs of the times better than
he, enlightened as she was by the mysterious
sympathies of sex, saw only too clearly that
their tete monte enthusiast had determined to
go her own way, and that nothing was farther
from her thoughts than compliance with her
parents' wish to make one of the guests at the
Pennefathers' picnic.

'' It is all Williams fault*' said Mrs. Lyon
to herself. ''He has spoiled the child so terribly
there is no doing anything with her now. He
will never let me interfere, and she can twist
him round her little linger. If he would have
given me my proper authority over her, things
would have been very different."

And perhaps the poor dear woman was right ;
for without question Mr. Lyon had spoiled his
little maid, though he did prevent her from
doing anything irremediably absurd.

VOL. I. S

Sure enough-li when the day did come  and it
was such a glorious day !  there was Hortensia
in her black gown made with the ostentatious
simplicity, the evident intention of mourning,
which she had affected ever since Mrs. Branscombe's
death. The delicate curves of her prim
little mouth were drawn into so many straight
lines ; her sleek hair was taken off her face
and bound round her head as smooth and tight
as if it had been so much spun-silk wound by
a machine round a wooden ball ; her whole
manner was instinct with that curious spirit of
silent Puritanism which made her the voiceless
preacher of Yanity and the nothingness of
human pleasure.

We shall have a beautiful day," observed
Mr. Lyon, by way of opening the crusade.

Beautiful ! " echoed his wife, looking straight
down her nose.

It was very naughty of her ; she felt that it
was ; but really she was glad that "William
should be made to feel how foolish he was in
spoiling the child as he did, and how much
wiser it would be to give her, the mother,
proper authority !

How are we going ? " asked Mr. Lyon, as
if he had no doubts and no miso-ivino-s. " You
and I in the victoria, Cara ; and the two young'

ones in the dogcart ? You do not like the
dogcart, I know''

' I am not going, father," said Hortensia
simply.

She was not in the least degree excited.
"Was she not testifying ?

Oh, stuff  yes, you are ! " he answered,
still cheerful and positive. " Why, I thought
we had done with all that nonsense, my little
maid ! Is it to come over again ? "

I cannot go, father  I would so much rather
not ! " she repeated, tears coming into her eyes ;
for she was really in earnest, though she was
silly and over-conscious. " I have promised
Stella to spend the day with her. She will
feel so lonely, poor girl, to know that we are
all enjoying ourselves, and she left out''

The blood came into Mr. Lyon's face in a
flood, as it did when he was seriously annoyed.
He loved his little maid  no father better ; but
he liked to have his own way too ; he set store
by his parental authority ; and he had promised
himself that he would make her yield in
this matter.

I think you would scarcely like to disobey
me, Hortensia, if you knew how much you
pained me," he said very gravely.

I am so sorry, father," she answered ; '* but
indeed it is against my conscience ! "

Your conscience should lead you to obey
your father, Hortensia," said Mrs. Lyon unwisely.


'' Now, Cara, leave her to me ! " returned the
father sharply. " She and I understand each
other."

But if they did there was no outward and
visible sign thereof, save such as could be
found in Hortensia's red eyes and her father's
artificial contentment when, after half an hour's
private consultation in the study, both came
back into the drawing-room with the air of
people who have had a real quarrel and made
only a half patched-up jeace. However that
might be, Mr. Lyon, heroically taking the
burden on himself, announced that, as his little
maid had such a strong objection, he would not
force her to go ; and while he spoke, Hortensia
stood by with the oppressed kind of self-granulation
of a victor whose victory has cost her
dear  but who after all is victor.

'' You really do spoil her too much ! " said
Mrs. Lyon, with natural displeasure. " It is
not kind to her, William, to give her her own
wav in this manner. She should be made to
obey."

You Icnow nothing about the matter, Cara,"
answered her husband irritable. "If I sav

that her reasons have convinced me that ought
to be enough for you."

She makes a downright slave of you' returned
Hortensia's mother, even more irritably
than the father had spoken. '' And every year
things get worse."

I am master in my own house," said her
husband with a peremptory air. '- And it is
time that we were starting."

All this time poor Eandolph had not spoken
a word, but he was in misery all the same. He
would have given half his fortune to have
escaped this picnic from which all the sweetness
and sunshine had gone. How far pleasant it
would have been to have gone with Hortensia
to Rose Hill, where he too might have hoped to
cheer Stella Branscombe  Cyril Ponsonby's
Star and his ! But he knew that his best breeding
and his highest duty lay in simply accepting
the dry husks of what might have been such a
rich feast of enjoyment ; so, with a very sad
face and very reproachful eyes, he mounted the
cob that had been assigned to him, while mr.
and Mrs. Lyon went on in the victoria, and
wrangled all the way. They were a very affectionate
couple as times go in this naughty
world ; but they were terribly put out to-day,
the one bv Hortensia's obstinacy and the other

by lier victory  and they revenged on each
other the annoyance for which she was to
blame.

So this was where the little Puritan's exaggerated
sense of right had led them all  to
the ill-humour and discomfort of her father and
mother; to the disappointment and gloomy
boredom of poor unoffending Randolph Mac-kenzie
; and to the temporary annoyance of
half a dozen other people, and especially of the
kind-hearted Pennefathers themselves, who
' wanted the thing to go."

She gratified herself however, though she
pained so many ; and when she found herself at
Stella's  thanked, praised, condoled with for
her sacrifice and caressed with loving gratitude
by her friend  she thought that she had the
fairest slice of the day's great cake. Her slice
Alas even larger when Mr. Branscombe sent for
her to go into his studio, where he sat in his
elegant grey velvet costume, with the band of
white crape round his arm to mark his mourning
for a saint.

This is just such a thing as I should have
expected from you ! " he said, holding Hortensia's
hand in his long, white, scented fingers :
'the delicate act of a faithful soul perfumed
with angelic sweetness."

Hortensia blushed and looked delightfully
pretty. The praises of her own conscience
were pleasant, but Mr. Branscombe's were intoxicating.
There was a fine nebulous suggestiveness
about them inexpressibly fascinating ;
sand she was not of the age to criticise or to
detect the difference between words without
meaning and full of lofty sound, and those
Which had a definite idea and an intelligible
thought.

Mr. Branscombe was her present ideal. He
represented to her all that was most pure and
poetic in man. She believed in his genius, in
his loftiness of mind, in the touching sincerity
of his love, in the noble simplicity of his life 
devoted as it was to Art, to Poetry, to Music 
to all which makes humanity beautiful, noble
and refined. And again she found herself
washing that her dear father were as delicate
and aesthetic as Stella Branscombe's ! If only
he had been, what a proud and happy daughter
she would have been ! But she noticed that
Stella looked pale and weary, and that she said
almost eagerly : " It is such a beautiful day,
papa, may I not take Hortensia into the
g-arden ? "

'- And leave the Threnody unfinished ?  That
beautiful Threnody on your dear mother ? It is

not half copied vet, I see' vas the reply made
with gentle reproach.

The girl sighed.

I am not writing very well, to-days' she
answered. " I have rather a headache ; perhaps
little fresh air will do me good."

Let US all go," said Mr. Branscomhe, with a
touching kind of dignity in his self-surrender.
My good little friend must not he saddened hy
too close contact with our grief. The fresh free
sky for the fresh free heart  flowers for the
young spirit  and the gay lilt of the glad birds
for the gentle soul whose world is music. Ives.
let us all go ! "

What a splendid man your fatlicr is ! '"
whispered Hortensia with enthusiasm ; and
Stella lifting up her soft eyes full of love,
answered :

'' Yes, indeed, he is  splendid ! " And yet
she was sorry that he flattered her friend so-very
much ! It was scarcely good for her !

What happiness it must he to you to live
with him in such an atmosphere of mind and
beauty," continued Hortensia, her eyes glistening
and her cheeks flushing. " All day long,
music and poetry  all day long, these deep
thoughts and noble words  and you privileged
to help in the work of such grand genius  you

alio first to read and hear ! Ob, Stella, what a
life !  how I envy you, my darling ! holy I wish
it was mine ! "

It is indeed beautiful, and I am very much
to be envied. There are few fathers like mine,"
answered Stella.

She sjDoke with perfect sincerity ; and yet
again she wondered, as she spoke, why she felt
so tired of her enviable position and still more
enviable work ; and wdiy she wished that she
might be sometimes alone, when the privilege
of her father's superior companionship was so-great.
She knew that his art was supreme and
of the purest quality ; but she was conscious of
a very strong and very reprehensible yearnings
be able to read something beside his poetry,
to play more than his music, to look at other
than his pictures. And oh ! if he would but
turn to indifferent themes and leave her dear
dead mother's memory in sacred silence ! If he
would but leave off writing Threnodies and
Odes, dirges and funeral nocturnal which, he
said, it broke his heart to write and which she-knew
it broke hers to hear ! There was something
in this incessant commemoration that
jarred on her, she did not know why ; but withall
her admiration for his genius it seemed a
desecration rather than, as he said, the consent

creation of that blessed memory through the
homage of his love and the glory of his genius.
All this however she kept to herself, and the
day of the picnic was passed at Hose Hill in
perfect peace and outward satisfaction ; Mr.
Branscombe alternately repeating his own poetry
and weaving glittering Avcbs of praise for Hortensia
Lyon  Hortensia in the seventh heaven
of gratified vanity and genuine enthusiasm 
and Stella feeling as if her guard had been
relieved, and that she was free to wander off
into an independent dream-land of her own,
wherein she might meet her own true love, and
forget all the distance that lay between them
hind the sorrow that had overshadowed them.

CHAPTER XY.

THE TRYST AT CROSSING'S BRIDGE.

The Pennefatliers were people who were
notoriously lucky in all their undertakings, and
whom Providence manifestly favoured. They
invariably brought their undertakings to a
successful issue, and when they gave picnics
and garden-parties the very elements themselves
conspired to make them go well. The national
superstition about Queen's weather was transferred
at High wood to the family at Sherrardine ;
and halcyon days were certain when they
launched their pleasure-boats. Of course it
was just their luck to have such a glorious day
as was this special Wednesday, when all the
'Country-side, and some more into the bargain,
were gathered at the trysting place, en route
for Green-hill Falls.

'- Fine day as usual ! *' shouted one.

Pennefatlier weather! " said another.

"By George! I wish I had your luck/*
said Colonel Moneypenny, who was a pessimist
in philosophy and believed in his own persecution
by fate.

'when I want to succeed in anything I will
get the Miss Pennefathers to take a chance''
said Dr. Quigley, who had come to see the-cohort
set out, but whose professional duties;
prevented his joining in the fun.

He was a pleasant, well-liked and likely man
of about forty ; but though he paid compliments
to every unmarried woman in the place and
flirted in a mild way indiscriminately with all
alike, no one had yet found the spell which
should compel him to lay aside his bachelorhood
no one had yet dipped the net which should
land him high and dry on the safe shores of
matrimony. His freedom was the standing-puzzle
of the place and almost as many explanations
were given of it as there are circumstances
in human life ; one bold guesser even suggesting
a wife and family in the background, while
another sketched out certain poor and disreputable
relations who had to be kept out of his
income if he did not wish to see them in the
dock as thieves or in the Union as paupers.

Be that as it might, the cheery, likely and

well-liked bachelor doctor went on his own
way, equally ready with a joke or a piece of
gratuitous advice, half an hour's flirtation with
a pretty girl or a night's watching oyer a sick
boy ; knowing all the family secrets for ten
miles round and telling none of his own ; more
than once helping on a marriage that hung fire
but keeping well out of the range for his own
part ; loving his profession but always talking
of retiring ; constitutionally fond of pleasure
and given to all sorts of manly exercises, but
never allowing his personal desires to stand
between himself and the most irksome of his
duties. He was a fine fellow all round ; and,
not even excepting* Mr. Pennefather and Mr.
Lyon, both of whom were general favourites in
the place, he was, without doubt, the most
popular man in Highwood.

As he stood now by the side of Colonel
Moneypenny, with Sandro Kemp a little in
advance, he made by no means the least noteworthy
of a rather remarkable triad. All three
men were tall ; but, while Dr. Quigley was
hard and muscular, like a man accustomed to
an open air life, Sandro was softer in fibre
though as powerful in build, and the Colonel
was spare, wiry and without an ounce of
superfluous flesh on his whole body. In face the

doctor was grave, smiling, cheerful, with quick
observant eyes and the look of one whose every
sense is sharpened by incessant use; Sandra
Kemp was grave, tender, reflective, seeing-only
certain things and seeing those only for
certain purposes ; while the Colonel had the
harassed and discontented expression of a
disappointed man too proud to complain but too
sensitive not to resent.

His grievance was that he had been ill-treated
at the Horse Guards, and that his
services had been passed over without the recognition
which they deserved. Hence his very
natural belief that England and the service
were going at a hand-gallop to the deuce, and
that nothing would save the nation but a
strong reaction in favour of men of family, and
the mob, with the plutocracy, sent to the rear.
Sandro Kemp, for his part, thought that
national salvation was to be found only in the
possibility of every peasant's son rising to be
Prime Minister if he had it in him; and Dr.
Quigley had his panacea in medical supervision
and scientific autocracy, by which no sickly
man o-r woman should be allowed to marry ; no
unhealthy profession should be allowed to
continue ; and national rewards should be
given to those who should lighten human

labour and minimize the chances of danger Conventions
and machinery. Of the three the
doctor was the most practical, the artist the
most poetical, and the soldier the best bred.
But it must be confessed, his was good breeding
with a rent in the purple ; being of the kind
which respects condition more than persons,
and does not think courtesy the right of the
inferior, though it may be given at times by
the grace of the superior. Hence he always
held his head a little hio'h when he was talking:
to Dr. Quigley or Sandro Kemp  the one a
country practitioner for all that he was an
M.D., and the other an impecunious artist for
all that he might have genius and was of good
family, not ranking in his mind as gentlemen
equal with himself.

While they were standing there discussing*
the weather-chances of the day, Augusta Latrobe
came up, holding her little son by the
hand. How pretty she looked in her soft black
dress, from which that generous powdering of
jet beads, wherever they could be put, took all
expression of sadness ! In no wise coquettish,
she was yet a woman with a wholesome respect
for her own charms and the determination to
make the best of herself, according to her age,
should she live to be a hundred. She was never

dressed too bountifully nor dressed too much ;
but slice was never other than well and
]becomingly attired  her gowns fitting* to perfection
 her hats and bonnets suiting her as if
the fashion had been expressly made for her 
her boots and gloves and all accessories without
a flaw that even the most critical could discover.


In the midst of the light colours which
flooded the " field '' to-day, her graceful figure,
all black and sparkle, looked by far the most
elegant and distinguished. And though most
of the girls were many years younger  in
the first blush of their spring-time, while she
was in the rich summer of thirty-two  still she
was as beautiful as the prettiest of them all,
and perhaps with a deeper meaning in her
charm.

As soon as she came up she was surrounded
by the Pennefiithers, with whom she was an
especial favourite.

"' How jolly of you to come in such good
time ! " cried George ; '' and how quite too
awfully nice you look ! "' she added ; for though
the main happiness of the Doves lay in fun
.and dress combined, they were neither jealous
of the success of others nor niggardly in ther
praises.

' I am sure you look very nice too' said
Augusta, smiling. '' What pretty dresses 3'ou
have ! "

Think so ?  so do I. Miss Dawson made
them, for we had not time ; but we designed
them ; and I think they have come out pretty
well on the whole. Do you like our hats ?
"We got the idea out of the fashion-book, but
we had them made miles larger, not to be just
like other people, you know. And, don't you
see ?  I've got pink in mine and Patrick has
blue ; but I'll let you into the secret  we are
going to change them and our brooches after
dinner, and we shall have such fun ! Mind
you don't let it out ! No one knows but you
and us two  even the boys and Mater don't.
It will be good gear, I can tell you ! "

That is a new ji'se, George," said
Augusta, laughing. " Everything is good gear,
now."

That's Jemmy's word," she answered.
*' You know one can't help catching the boys'
slang. They never talk anything else. But
you won't tell, will you ? "

No! no! certainly not ! " she answered ; and
as at this moment the Lyons drove up with
Randolph Mackenzie, the noisy, good-hearted
givers of the feast surged up to them, and

VOL. I. T

Augusta was left standing near the three men,
and nearest to Sandro.

It was no one's business to watch either
Sandro or the Colonel ; but Dr. Quigley made
it his. Something in the face of each struck
those quick observant eyes of his, and he looked
from under the brim of his broad-leafed hat,
first at one and then the other, and from them
to the tranquil, graceful, comely widow.

A certain subdued eagerness, a certain half-beseeching,
half-tremulous admiration shone
like the sorrowful light of a strong man's tears
in Sandro's earnest eyes. The blood left his
cheeks and his lips were pressed together as if
the sight of this woman brought him joy and
pain together  the joy that he must not
express, the pain that he could not conceal.
The Colonel's thin, keen, furrowed face flushed
like a girl's ; yet his manner was stiff and dry,
and he spoke almost as if he were displeased
and scarcely on friendly terms with the widow
of the Professor. He had had this manner
ever since the day when Augusta Mors head had
announced the fact of her intended marriage
with Professor Latrobe ; and her widowhood
had not changed him. Before that day he had
been the girl's most devoted cavalier ; so much
so indeed, that people had talked and speculated,

as people will in country places where their
neighbours' affairs are the most interesting
things they have to discuss ; but no one said
anything now  though more than one had
wondered " whether it would ever be on again
with Colonel Moneypenny " when Augusta
Latrobe came back, a penniless widow, with a
child dependent on the questionable bounty of
her hard-handed and bad-tempered old mother.

That speculation lasted only a very short
time ; and no one, save Dr. Quigley, saw that
the Colonel cared more for Augusta Latrobe
than he did for those Miss Pennefathers, whom
he always called ' Objectionable," or for Hortensia
Lyon, whom he laughed at as a Precious
Ridicule.

The pretty widow herself showed nothing.
Certainly the faintest and most delicate pink
tinge came over her whole face, like the far-off
reflection of the Alpine after-glow as she turned
to greet them all ; and her eyes had a curious
look of forced composure as they rested on each
by turn, when she gave her hand and returned
the conventional greetings proper to the occasion.
But even Dr. Quigley's perceptions were
at fault as to what that evanescent little flush
might mean  and whether it meant anything at
all or not ; and if it did, for whom ? and why ?

The widow , was too well-inured to self-suppression
at that congenial home where thorns
and pitfalls abounded, to betray more of herself
than she cared to show abroad ; and among the
many attractions of her character was this
strange union of perfect sincerity with absolute
self-control and as absolute reticence on all
that she did not choose to make manifest. She
once said to Dr. Quigley  who, by the way,
got more out of her than any one else was able
to do  that she never remembered to have
betrayed by mere weakness and impulsiveness
what she afterwards regretted to have told.
If she told anything in confidence it was with
the deliberate intention of bestowing that confidence
; but she never let things slip from inability
to hold them fast. And he believed her ;
as he was in the right to do.

Here again she held her own and baffled the
friendly explorer who would have penetrated
into the interior of her mind. Her manner to
Sandro Kemp was exactly the same as her
manner to Colonel Moneypenny ; and dien his
own turn came, she gave him her hand and
looked up into his face with her calm, clear untroubled
eyes exactly as she had looked into the
faces of the others ; and the doctor saw no more
for his part than the artist and the soldier had

seen for theirs. She was sweet, smiling, cordial,
gracious ; but with no special meaning or application.
She gave no one an inch more of
velvet than she gave to another ; and she was
velvet-soft to every one alike. Still, there was
something under it all ; and that something 
what was it ?

By this time all had assembled ; and now
came the first act of the real drama  the order
of their o-oino* and who should take whom
whereof this o-atherino- at Crossings Brido-e
was only the prologue. The Pennefathei's
where not people who patronized family exclusiveness
on days of pleasure. To a husband
any woman but his own wife ; to a sister any
man but her own brother. The cards had to
be shifted and fresh combinations made ; and
even staid old married folks, like Mr. and Mrs.
Lyon, had to be dealt to other partners, with
whom at least they could not spar and wrangle
because a mother's influence had broken to
pieces under a father's authority, and a father's
authority had gone down before a daughter's
desire.

The arrangements were not very difficult to
make. George and Pattie reserved for themselves,
as a matter of coarse, Yalentine and Milford
Cowley; for which they got not a little

obloquy from those mothers and daughters vho
thought that the givers of a feast should be
content with the crumbs, and that the sons of a
wealthy landowner were dainties to be bestowed
on the guests and not kept for the hosts. The
four Pennefather boys, with Eandolph Mackenzie
and the other young men, were dispersed among-the
young ladies who were still on their promotion
and unattached ; but Freddy Grant and
Louis Sturt, who were engaged, were sent off
by themselves in a unity of bliss multiplied by
two. Such of the elderly married folk as could
not be paired with their kind were planted out
where their chaperonage would be least obstructive
; and then came the question of pretty Mrs.
Latrobe and her escort, and who should have
the honour of her safe guidance.

You must go in our pony carriage with
Colonel Moneypenny or Mr. Kemp," said George
and Pattie, the two speaking like one.

They were good-natured creatures, always
ready to promote " cases," and to provide
sheaths for " spoons " if hands were but kept off
their own store. They were besides, honestly
desirous to sec Augusta well-married for the
second time, and taken out of the cruel keeping
of her mother.

Which will you have ? " they asked with
generous intent.

As they wanted neither the artist nor the
Colonel for their own share, they were quite
willing that the widow should have her choice.

Sandro came forward with that hurried action
which means desire, and the eager face which is
substantially a prayer.

I can drive Mrs. Latrobe," he said quietly
as to tone and inflection ; but his eyes were too
earnest to be in harmony with his voice, and
his hand visibly trembled as he thrust it into
the bosom of his coat.

For a moment Colonel Moneypenny did not
speak. Then he made a formal bow.

If Mrs. Latrobe will trust herself to me, I
shall be happy to be her escort," he said stiffly.

He could do no less than accept the challenge
flung down by the twins ; but he said no more
than was absolutely necessary. Nevertheless,
his pale, thin face flushed, as it had flushed
before ; and it seemed as if his heated blood
would give him some difficulty to damp down.

Augusta looked smiling from one to the
other ; but over the heads of both, not frankly
into their eyes. She seemed to accept the little
comedy as it was presented to the public, and
to enjoy the small tournament that had been
arranged for her honour  she, set in the place
of the Queen of Beauty whose office was to

declare the victor and bestow on bim her
favour.

Slowly sbe broiiglit ber eyes down from the
angle at wbicb they were fixed, to a level
with the men's faces. Sbe looked full at
Sandro ; not with defiance, nor yet with coldness,
only clearly, calmly, with odd resoluteness
and decision behind wbicb could be read a
certain tender regret. Then sbe glanced
hurriedly at Colonel Moneypenny, glancing
askance, not looking straight into his face as
she bad looked into Sandro's.

If Colonel Moneypenny will drive me ? "
sbe said in a clear voice and with a smooth
smile.

Sandro turned away with undisguised disappointment.
The Colonel's eyes flashed as if
that troublesome fire were getting ahead of
wisdom and making itself too evident for peace.
But be did not speak. He only bowed again
in bis stiff, disagreeable, half-offended way, ashe
offered the widow bis band to assist ber into
the carriage, and noticed how pretty ber feet
Avere and bow perfectly appointed she was altogether.
Then be took bis place by ber side
with the air of a man perfectly indifferent to his
position and finding in it neither pleasure nor
pain.

I must take my child' said Augusta as the
colonel gathered up the reins and took the
whip from the groom who had been holding the
pony's head.

Oh no ! " said George and Pattie. *' The
two young ones are going together with Mater
and nurse Mary."

Oh no, indeed, you cannot have Tony ! And
I'm sure Colonel Moneypenny don't want him ! "
said Gip with a little laugh.

I would rather take him," said Augusta
earnestly.

Drive on, Colonel," shouted Pip who was
anxious to be off. " Mater and Mary have
undertaken the nursery. TVe can't change
things now. Good-bye ; and take care of
Frisky down hill. He has an ugly trick of
falling over his own toes ! "

Are we to go without your son ? " asked the
Colonel stiffly.

Augusta looked disturbed.

I would so much rather have had him with
us," she said.

Shall I insist on his being brought ? " he
asked again, always glacial and angular.

By no means," said the two Doves authoritatively.
" Drive on, do ! You are keeping us
all back."

The Colonel still held the whip pointed and
the reins loose. He looked at the widow, as if
for her final decision.

"Perhaps I had better not disturb the arrangements,"
she said with evident reluctance ;
and the Colonel, giving the signal, went off at
a fast trot, finding it a little difficult to keep up
his air of glacial and offended dignity and not
to say frankly : "I am glad that I am to have
you all to myself! "

But Colonel Moneypenny was nothing if not
conscious of what was due to himself; and it
was due to himself, according to his own ideas
of things, that he should make Augusta Latrobe
practically petition to be reinstated in his good
graces  practically confess that she had done
very wrong in marrying Professor Latrobe, and
not waiting humbly in faith and patience for
the hour when he himself should have asked her
to be his wife. And to do this he must keep
her at the arm's length where he had held her
ever since the day of her engagement, and not
let her think that she had only to smile to brings
him to her feet again. Wherefore the drive,,
which cost poor Sandro Kemp so much pain,
was the dullest, driest and most uninteresting
of all in the day, so far as words and looks were
concerned. Secretly, in his heart, the Colonel

was profoundly content in sorte of Liss angular
outside; while Augusta more than once thought:
Would it do ? Should I gain, both for myself
and the child ? or should I only exchange
tyrannies and get no good from either ? "

Meanwhile poor Sandro did his best to blow
his little bubbles in that part of this frothy sea
of so-called pleasure where he found himself;
but taking a turn at the crank or a walk on the
treadmill would have been almost as amusing
laughing at jokes which had no point, and
flirting with girls for whom he had no inclination.
The sun had gone out of the sky for him ;
and he thought that picnics and all kinds of
open-air amusements were simply inventions of
the Evil One  the most stupid, insane, disappointing,
inartistic things that could possibly
be devised for the torment of humanity. He
was angry with fate, Augusta Latrobe, the
Pennefathers, the sunshine and Colonel Money-penny
 all in about equal proportion. And
yet, why should he make himself uncomfortable
because the Colonel was driving Mrs. Latrobe
in the pony carriage, and he was with Jack
Pennefather and the two pretty Miss Manners
in a phaeton ? What was Mrs. Latrobe to
him ? What could she be indeed ? She was
perfectly right not to give him false hopes, and

she had full liberty to encourage any one else.
He could not marry ; and the Colonel was a
wealthy man and could. Yes; she was perfectly
right ; and he was a fool to care about
the matter. And those two pretty cousins 
the Misses Eayner from London  were really
remarkably picturesque-looking girls, and their
heads would come in splendidly for the sketch
which he had promised to do of the whole
group.

Nevertheless, for all their prettiness, he found
the drive to Greenhill Falls the longest, flattest
and dullest that he had ever taken ; and not
seven his artist's eyes could see the full beauty
of the points by which they skirted, for that
tugging at his heart-strings  that sense of
emptiness and dreariness  which made the
whole earth barren outside the limits of one
sweet and gracious presence.

'rit is madness!" he said to himself; 'rit is
slavery unworthy of a rational man ! "

All the same, he hugged his chains and
cherished his delusions, and made such spasmodic
attempts at bubble-blowing that the two
girls saw through the effort and resented his
preoccupation as an affront to their charms.

The most stupid man I ever saw ! " said
coach when the drive came to an end ; while
Jack Pennefather added as his contribution :

Old Kemp was never nmcli of a good thing ;
but to-day he was duller than old boots and as
heavy on hand as so much lead. He wasn't
worth his salt or the horseflesh it cost to tool
him over, and I should have liked to have
dropped him over the side. We should have
been far jollier without him."

So they would  ]Door, sad-hearted and uncomfortable
Sandro, for whom the sun had gone
out of the sky and the earth had suddenly
become barren because Augusta Latrobe was
sitting by the side of Colonel Moneypenny in
the pony carriage, and he was half a mile in
the rear with the two Misses Rayner from
London and that idiotic young Jack Penne-father.


CHAPTER Xii.

THE POCKETFUL OF FUN.

"WiiETHEE long or short to the minds of the
wayfarers the drive to Grreenhill Falls came at
last to an end. There were no adventures by
the way and not the faintest approach to an
accident. Frisky stumbled once in going
wn-hill, according to his habit ; but the
Colonel pulled him up in time, and gave him
n savage cut with his whip which was less for
the beast's correction than the man's ill-humour.
The children were good and neither wanted to
-commit suicide by climbing about the seats, nor
demanded impossibilities in the way of food and
amusement. One by one the carriages drove
up to the camping-ground ; and the inmates
were greeted as vociferously as if they had not
been seen for a twelvemonth, and had come
safely over the pass of the Tete Noire at least.

To see all those bright slices, to hear all those
pleasant voices, one would have thought that
no sorrow existed on the earth to sadden the
sons and daughters of men, and that the days
of that long looked-for Utopia had at last set in.
What a noisy, joyous little company they
made ! and what fun it all was ! While the
cloth was being laid that fun was at its height.
The unpacking of the baskets was a succession
of surprises, each more delightful than the other.
The shouts of admiration for the Colonel's
generous supply of champagne, and for Augusta
Latrobe's gooseberries and hot-house grapes ;
for the terrible old woman was either too
human at bottom, or too proud to let her
daughter go empty-handed to the feast ; the
enthusiasm excited by the Misses Rayner's
superb pate de foie gras, sent as their contribution
by the parents Rayner in London ; the
laughter raised by the multiplicity of screws
of salt and cones of sugar ; the prospective
enjoyment contained in the quarters of lamb
and sirloin of beef, the chicken and veal-pies,
the salads with lobster and the salads without 
in the bottles of custard, of cream, of milk, of
lemonade  in the tarts and cheesecakes, the
jellies and big plum-cakes ; the delightful occupation
of gathering sticks and boiling the water

in a kettle that would not hang over a fire that
would not burn ; the mess made in breaking'
the eggs for an omelette, and the queer compound
which went under that name when all
was done ; the fights with earwigs and
harvest-men," wasps and beetles which went
on without intermission ; and then the uncomfortable
seats found on tree-roots and jutting
stones, with ants crawling up from the ground
and green caterpillars dropping down from the
trees ;  oh, the fun of it all ! What was thereto
compare with a picnic ? thought all the young-people
in a body ; and what plague, equal in
horror, had ever been invented by madmen for
the torture of innocent human beings ? thought
the Colonel, who hated to be disturbed in his
habits and who was not specially affected to the
Pennefathers. But he was in for it now and
had to make the best of it, pretending the
enjoyment, which he was far from finding, in
eating his own dinner by snatches while he
supplied the ladies without delay and disputed
with creeping things the best morsels on his
plate.

Gip and Pip were completely in their
element, and outdid themselves in noise, good-nature
and slang. The boys were ubiquitous ;.
and it seemed to each guest as if he or she

were asked four times over by the same person
whether he or she would not have more of this
or some of that ?  going through all the dishes
on the cloth. Yal and Mil Cowley kept close
to the skirts of Gip and Pip, and behaved
rather shabbily to every one else ; but though
the twins flirted generously with them they
flirted generously with every other man about
the place, and no one could complain that he
was left out in the cold. Sandro Kemp, partly
prudent, partly heart-sore, kept rigorously away
from Augusta Latrobe for the first half-hour of
the time ; but after then his prudence came
to an end, his heart-strings tugged too hard,
and, almost without knowing how, he found
himself by the fair widow's side, looking into
her face for some sign of love with eyes which.
betrayed his own.

But when Augusta had made up her mind
and marked out her course she kept to it ; and
not the keenest observer  not even Dr. Quigley
had he been there  could have detected the
faintest, most shadowy sign of that which poor
Sandro was yearning, longing, hoping to see.
Yet, that she should speak to any other man
than himself with frankness and gracious sweetness
annoyed the susceptibilities of the peppery-tempered
Colonel. During that tete-astute drive

VOL. I. U

to the Falls lie had thawed to an immense extent
internally, though externally his manners had
remained just as glacial as ever ; but he knew
in his own breast that the old charm had begun
to work again, and that .Augusta Latrobe was
almost as beautiful to him, and almost as desirable,
as Augusta Morshead had been. He
intended however to prove her thoroughly
before committing himself irrevocably. That
is, he intended to repeat the mistake of the
past by which he had lost her once already.
If, during this period of proof, he saw any
symptoms of leaning to this side or that  any
signs of possible favouring one or another  he
would banish her from his thoughts, leave her
to her fate, and close for ever against her that
golden door through which, if she were wise
and good, she might pass into the happiness of
his home, the sufficiency of his fortune, and the
honour lying in the name and state of Mrs.
Colonel Moneypenny.

He had no suspicion of any one. Since her
widowhood and return to the old home Mrs.
Latrobe had lived with such supreme discretion
that she had escaped even the microscopic
research and the metaphysic talk of a small
country place like Highwood ; and no one had
coupled her name with that of any desirable

bachelor here or elsewhere. Sharpened as his
eyes were by suspicion and distrust, watching
keenly and eagerly as he did, he yet could not see
anything in her manner to Sandro Kemp which
should cause him a moment's uneasiness. Certainly,
he did not like that fellow's following
her up as he did, as he had not liked the choice
and juxtaposition of the start ; and for a word
or look the jealousy, inseparable from that
damped-down fire in his heart, would have
blazed out heaven-high. But Sandro's back
was turned to him at this moment, and the
widow's calm face and quiet air betrayed
nothing. So the rupture which was threatened
for just one brief instant was happily got over,
and the Colonel signified his silent forgiveness
of a problematical sin by going up to the two
as they sat a few feet apart under the trees, and
making the third in their conversation.

When the dinner was quite over and the
servants' turn had come, the company all paired
off and strolled away to the ostensible object of
the day  the Falls, which were about a mile
distant. Gip, with the keen " fair " of her
kind, saw how things stood with poor Sandra
Kemp ; and, sympathetically inclined to give
all " cases " a helping hand when she could,
she determined to put a spoke in that old

Coloners wheel, as she irreverently phrased it
nd to give poor old Kemp a chance. Just a&
they were all gathering themselves into little
knots, or segregating themselves into pairs, she
standing with Yal Cowley and Jessie Rayner 
of whom, by the way, she wanted to get rid on
her own account  called to Colonel Moneypenny
just as he had ranged himself on Augusta's
right hand, Sandro Kemp being on her left.

Oh, Colonel Moneypenny ! " she said ; " do
come here and tell us the name of this awfully
funny little flower ! I know that you are a
tremendously good botanist, and Jessie Rayner
is wild about botany Do come, please ; weare
so awfully anxious to know."

I assure you. Miss Pennefather, I know
Avery little indeed about flowers," said the
Colonel crossly, and not quitting his post.
*' Mr. Kemp is a far better botanist than I.
Ask him."

My knowledge is exceedingly superficial.
I am afraid I should be of no use to any one''
said Sandro quickly. " I yield the palm to you
willingly," he added, turning to the Colonel
with a smile.

It would be absurd in me to pretend to
know anything about it," said the Colonel
ans-rill.

Surely never were two men in greater haste
to proclaim their ignorance of a science wherein
both were notoriously proficient !

Gip laughed till the echoes rang with her
voice.

How awfully funny ! " she said, looking at
the Colonel through and through. ' Only last
week you told me that you had made a collection
of all the flowers to be found about
Highwood, and that you found there were some
awful lot  I forget no how many  a thousand
or a million, or something. Come along and
don't be ill-natured ! " she added familiarly.
*' What a character the Hi-hwoodites will abet
if you won't do a little kindness like this !
What will Jessie Eayner say of you, I wonder ? "

Oh, don't bring me in, George ! " said
Miss Rayner hastily. She too had seen a little
into the meaning of things ; and for a pretty
girl from London, fashionably dressed by
Madame Elise and used to homage, it was too
humiliating to be twice slighted on the same
day and to have two men preferring a woman
ever so much older than, and not so pretty as,
herself. " I should be very sorry if either
Colonel loneypenny or Mr. Kemp gave himself
any trouble on my account," she added
stiffly. " I can find out the flower by myself."

If I can be of any use to you I am sure
shall be most happy," said the Colonel, stung
into gallantry, and going up to those two tiresome
girls behind whom Yalentine Cowley was
standing, waiting for his turn and sure of
Greorgie's tact.

Shall we go on ? " asked Sandro of Augusta,
his heart beating fast and his voice a trifle
husky and unsteady.

For just one short moment the widow hesitated,
thinking rapidly what was the wisest
thing to do ? Should she escape from the
danger of that uninterrupted companionship by
joining the group of unwilling botanists ? or
should she trust to herself and go with Sandro
alone ? To do this would anger the Colonel
but to go up to him and wait for him would
have the look of running after him  would be
compromising herself both openly to the others
and privately to himself.

She knew that she could, if she would, win
that trick in the great game of matrimony. It
was not for nothing that she held her passions,
her weaknesses, her desires so well in hand to
give the lead to her reason and perceptions.
She saw through the glacial surface down to
the smothered fire beneath, and knew that it
depended only on herself which should gain on

the other. But she had not finally determined.
Life at her mother's home was emphatically
torture ; would it he much better at the
Coloners ? No ; she had certainly not finally
determined ; and in view of all that was and
might be  of her own indecision in some things
if resolute determination in others  she quietly
accepted Sandro's proposition and said :

"" Yes, let us go on. They will soon overtake
us."

I hope not' said the artist.

And Augusta wisely did not hear.

She was right, however. In a very short
time, and before Sandro could tell her about
the good things which had come to him, the
Colonel and pretty Jessie Rayner joined them
as they were crossing the meadow  all four
walking abreast  Sandro Kemp and Miss
Rayner on the outside, by which the Colonel
was next to Augusta in the middle. This
arrangement answered very well so long as
they could walk in open order over the lately
mown grass ; but when they came to the narrow
pathway through the boggy waste, where only
one could go at a time and where the ladies
had to be helped over the stones and vrhat the
Pennefathers called the squashy places, then
the efforts which each made to out-manoeuvre
the other vere marvels of generalship.

The victory rested with the artist and the
Colonel was out-generally. It was Sandro
who helped the pretty widow over all the bad
bits ;  Sandro who held her hand when she
crossed the rude stepping-stones or jumped the
narrow brook ;  Sandro who took her as his own
care by right of assignment and appropriation,
while the Colonel was left to fatigue-duty and
Jessie Rayner. It was a voiceless, weaponless
duel, but it was a duel all the same ; and from
that day Sandro Kemp might count as one of
the facts of his life, the deep and passionate
enmity of Colonel Grey Moneypenny.

This was the only hitch in the day's enjoyment,
and when they all gathered in a body at
the foot of the hills, the noise and fun and
laughter broke out afresh, all the more sweeping
and intense because of the interval of comparative
repose gained through the scattering
of the elements.

Gip and Pip changed their hats and their
name-brooches, and no one knew one from
the other. Yal Cowley, who had been making-confidences
to Gip, repeated his lesson to Pip,
to that naughty hussy's supreme satisfaction ;
and Mil, who had just told Pip that he thought
her the j oldest girl in the world, said the same
thing to Gip and entreated her to give him

]sack the phrase with interest. Mr. Lyon continued
with one sister the conversation he had
begun with the other ; Jessie Rayner complained
to Pattie of the false position in which
she had placed her by forcing her on Colonel
Moneypenny ; the boys themselves were taken
in ; the father and mother were puzzled ; only
Augusta, who was in the secret, and little Nora,
who had landmarks of her own, saw through
the joke and wondered in what the fun consisted.
That there was some tremendous joke
in the mystification was evident, but to no one
but themselves and the boys, when they were
told, was it in any way intelligible. They
however, laughed as if they would never leave
off; and when they were told the Cowley boys
laughed too, but not quite so heartily as the
Pennefathers.

The only one of the young men who was not
thoroughly amused was Randolph Mackenzie,
though he had sense enough not to betray his
dulness. The general gaiety was so far infectious
in that he found himself compelled to
laugh when others laughed ; to flirt with Grip
and Pip when flirting was evidently expected
t)f him ; to make his towering height of six feet
two, with bulk in proportion, as ubiquitous as
if he had been a smaller man ; and to do all

that was expected of a good-looking young
fellow in an assembly where, as the Doves had
said, there was not a stick of a girl nor a crab
of a man, and where, if the fun was of the
most innocent and harmless kind possible, it
was also of the noisiest and most rollicking.

But in spite of that superficial infection, this
honest heart turned ever back to his little
cousin who had sacrificed herself so nobly to-his
idea of duty  but what a will that quiet,
little creature had !  and to that dear beautiful
noble-hearted Stella  Cyril's Star ; and because
Cyril's then his as well  who had given up her
love for her duty, and who was so sad and
pale, so patient and unhappy ! What odd
things women are ! he thought as he stood a
little apart from the rest looking at the tumbling-waters
and seeing nothing of those falling
sheets of foam, those rising veils of spray.
They had a moral code among themselves which
man did not share nor yet understand. It was
doubtless far higher and purer than what he
had on his own side, but it was incomprehensible
all the same.

Eandolph Mackenzie was one of those young
men to whom a good girl is a thing to be
wondered at, a little feared and very much
respected. She was something precious and

mysterious ; something removed from the full
comprehension of men because standing on an
infinitely higher platform. Her very ignorance
of the evils into the knowledge of which even
little lads at school are initiated, gave him a
curious sense of awe. When with such girls
as his cousin and Stella Branscombe, he felt as
if standing in some holy place, in the presence
of some sacred shrine where no sinful thing*
might be. It w-as as if he had to put off part
of himself when with them ; to be pure and
humble, reverent and care fid, as they also where
pure and noble. It was a great mystery, this
virtuous and innocent girlhood !  and while he
thought this the loud laughter of wild George
Pennefather rang in his ear as she clambered
up the rock in front of him and shrieked out
to Milford Cowley: '' Where's George, Mil?
I wish you would fetch her and Yal ; or stay
do you go, Eandolph. Tell George and Yal
we want them up here."

The final act of the merry drama was set
when Sandro Kemp was reminded of his
promise to " make a picture " of the party.
Naturally each girl wanted to be the most conspicuous
of the group, and all lamented that
Sandro was not a photographer, when it would
have been so much easier to have posed and

the result would have been so much more like.
Sandro, however, put Augusta as the " point
de mire." He said he wanted her black dress
in the composition ;  and when an artist says
that he wants something for his picture it is
useless to discuss or dissent. He placed them
all just as he would have them ; and resisted
the temptation to caricature Colonel Money-penny.
This was his day's sacrifice to a higher
principle  the suppression of self by the generosity
of pride.

But the Colonel, annoyed on all sides as he
had been, resented the picture-making as if it
had been an intentional personal affront. It
was the last drop in the cup  the last straw of
the pack. He was horribly ill-tempered all the
way home, and Frisky had a bad time of it.
He was not certain whether he ought or ought
not to be jealous of Sandro Kemp  a man
whom he called " that artist fellow," and held
as neither his equal nor yet a real gentleman.
If he ought, then all was over between him
and the fair-faced widow ; if he had no cause,
why then he might see about it.

He was full of these dumb wei'hin's and
balancing, full too of pin pricks and uncomfortable
places ; and he made the drive as he
was himself. He relented however, just as he

nearer the gate of The Laurels, that formidable
home where, if he did not know all, he
guessed something of what the poor dependent
daughter suffered. When he parted from herat
her own door, he pressed her hand a little
more tenderly than he had intended, and looked
into her face with a decided softening of his
own. Pinched and furrowed that keen and
haughty face always must be ; but it could be
as gentle as it was sometimes haughty, as soft
as it was sometimes stern. It was gentle and
soft enough now, as he looked right into
Augusta's eyes while he held her hand warmly
clasped and said below his breath : " God bless
you.

Then the door opened and shut, and the
young widow passed from the love and gaiety
and pleasantness of the outer world into the
darkness of the prison called by courtesy her
home  that home where she was Cinderella
among the ashes whom the fairy godmother
had forgotten.

She had one joy however, in her happy little
son, who, having preceded her by half an hour
or so, came running into her arms as she
crossed the hall, saying :

Oh, mamma, what a jolly day it has been ! '*

This was the latest addition made to his

vocabulary. It was a present bestowed on
him by little Nora, and the earnest of future
whitings and more than one slapped little hand
as a reminder that "jolly" was a word not to
be used at The Laurels, and that as often ashe
used it his grand mamma would " spat " him.

Hortensia was at home when her parents and
Randolph arrived. She had had a day after
her own heart, and received them all with the
sweet serenity of one whose conscience is clear
and who has done the right thing. They had
sacrificed to Baal in the person of the Penne-fathers,
and she had carried incense to the altar
in the person of Mr. Branscombe. She would
not reproach them ; only, she did feel very
much their moral superior as she met them at
the door and asked them if they had enjoyed
themselves ? remarked that it had been a very
fine day ; and said she was so glad to see them
safe again at home !

She kissed her father and mother and smiled
quietly at her cousin ; helped her father to take
off his stone-coloured alpaca dust-coat ; asked
her mother if she should carry her bonnet
upstairs and bring down her cap, to save her
the fatigue of mounting those low, broad steps ?
and stood on a pinnacle of righteousness and
in the consciousness of victory all roimd. She

had been the sweet and spiritual Mary  now
she was the quiet, home staying, helpful, able
Martha; and they were pleasure-seekers of a
rowdy and objectionable kind. And she meant
that they should take the lesson to heart and
see things as she saw them.

Then the night stole on and the day came to
an end for all alike ; and of the Pennefathers'
famous picnic nothing was left but empty
bottles and fragments of food, torn gloves,
soiled gowns, a few dreams and some regrets.

CHAPTER I.

ROCKS AHEAD.

The morning after the picnic Randolph Mac-kenzie
was mooning about the garden at Derwent
Lodge, by no means in a joyous frame of
mind. Something about that noisy rollicking
yesterday had left a bitter taste in his mouth ;
and he was conscious of a feeling of disappointment
and dissatisfaction for which he could find
neither a name nor the cause.

For one thing indeed, he was sorry that his
little cousin had not gone with them. That
little cousin of his was wonderfully good, and
he cordially acknowledged how superior she
was to the ordinary run of girls. Compare her
with any of those at the picnic yesterday  why,
she stood a head and shoulders above them all in

VOL. II. B

moral measurement ! She was almost too good
indeed ; and Eandolph caught himself out in
the vileness of wishing that she was just a trifle
less superior  that she could sometimes comedown
from her pure altitudes and condescend
to the natural weaknesses of an every-day, but
all the same an amiable humanity  so much
weakness for instance, as should include her
father and mother, his good uncle and aunt.
Her evident moral superiority over them, when
they came home last night, had undeniably
rubbed him the wrong way. He had felt it at
the time and he felt it now just as keenly as
then. He did not mind for himself. Hortensia
was right to feel that she was a bright and
shining light where he was not as much as a
candlestick. But he did not like to see her so
conscious of having taken higher rank in the
hierarchy of virtue than that to which her good
parents had attained. It savoured too much of
spiritual pride for his taste ; he being one who
would have prayed with the ]publican rather than
have justified himself with the Pharisee. And
it seemed to him that what uncle William and
aunt Cara thought innocent, Hortensia might
accept as allowable. And on the whole  though
it was very sweet of her to sacrifice her natural
inclination for pleasure to friendship and Stella

Branscombe  still, it would have been more
graceful and more dutiful had she given way
fo her parents and done as they wished.

Then there was that beautiful Stella herself;
she too, was a difficult bit to rightly adjust in
his moral mosaic. He had received this morning
a letter from Cyril which had stirred up in
his heart the natural sympathy of youth for
youth, of man for man, and had filled him with
pity for his friend, indignation against fate and
doubt and perplexity all round. Sending all
sorts of fervid, half-mad messages to his Love
for all that they daily exchanged long letters
full of hope or fear, of love or assurance, as
they were shaken by each passing mood  like
that catching of the straw by the drowning
man, poor Cyril seemed to have some kind of
vague hope that the presence in Highwood of
his friend, his chum, his faithful Pylades, would
work a miracle in his favour. It was a link,
at all events, if a slender one ; and the poor
fellow was in that state of despairing trouble
when even the weakest tie is better than none
at all. But it laid a heavy weight on Randolph's
heart; for the good, honest, stupid
fellow well knew that he could do nothing.
Stella, like Hortensia, had sublime reasons and
far-reaching arguments for doing; as it seemed

to him less humanely than magnificently ; and
he could neither understand the one nor refute
the other. The very difficulty which waS
annoying him at this moment in the adjustment
of his moral mosaic was just the true answer to
this question :  Was Stella right to postpone
her marriage in this indefinite way, and to give
Cyril so much pain and disappointment simply
that she might stay and keep house for her
father, and copy out his manuscript poetry and
music ? She was noble, pure, high-minded 
all that and more ; but, like Hortensia, might
she not carry her virtue a trifle too far, and by
becoming too angelic cease to be sufficiently
human? "Excelsior" is a brave motto; but
one might do better for one's self and for others
than to be found by dogs frozen to death in a
snow-drift !

It was a hard moral problem, and one that
he could not solve, try as he would. It was a
kind of cleft-stick in which he found himself 
a spiritual " pons asinorum," where virtues were
the angles and motives the straight lines  a
true ethical dilemma, with friendship on the
one horn and principle on the other  and he
was in the blundering perplexity characteristic
of men with small reasoning powers, wholesome
instincts and strong affections, when those

whom they love go over their heads in morality
and do as it seems to them wrong from the
basis of an over lofty right.

He stood by the netting of the tennis-ground,
apparently studying the size of the meshes and
trying the strength of the stays, while in
reality fretting himself into a mental fever
because two pretty girls were so distractingly
good and overwhelmingly high-minded. Presently
Hortensia came out to join him. In the
programme of her duties as it was to steady her
cousin's fluid inclinations and induce him to
take Orders, she was ever on the watch for
favourable moments ; and here was one eminently
favourable. To make this stalwart, natural
pioneer of practical civilization into a meek
country curate, absorbed in old women and
young ladies  in the just distribution of flannel
petticoats and the nice observance of ecclesiastical
drill  seemed to her a work of spiritual
charity worthy of all effort, and where success
would be its own reward. As for such a thing
as natural fitness for the work of the sinful
world, or natural unfitness for the sublimer
reaches of spiritual life, Hortensia was far too
zealous to allow the force of this kind of chilly,
soul-destroying reasoning. " You ought," with
her, was the serpent which swallowed up all

those weak, protesting little snakes of " cannot,"
and " would rather not ; " and specially did she
despise her cousin's little snake of natural disinclination
 as indeed, to tell the truth, in her
own heart she despised all that was characteristic
of him throughout.

When therefore, she saw him standing idly
by the netting studying the meshes of that
frivolous bit of reticulation, the pretty Puritan
laid aside her morning task of making rough
little shirts for the Mother's Bag, and turned to
her more congenial employment of exhorting
and proselytizing.

But Randolph would not give her missionary
efforts a chance to-day. He was too much
absorbed in the affairs of others to have any
interest in himself. Cyril and Stella, and
Hortensia herself, were far before his own
future profession ; but as he was not quite upto
the work of attacking his little cousin offhand,
he fell back on Stella, and through heron
Cyril.

'how was Stella Branscombe yesterday?"
he asked quickly, eagerly, so soon as her cousin
joined him.

Good manners obliged her to answer him.

"Stella? she was quite well," she said a
little pettishly; though had the girl been ill

Hortensia would not have seen it, swept away
as she had been in the frothy flood of Mr.
Branscombe's sonorous nonsense. And, indeed,
for the matter of that Stella was not well ; and
day by day got steadily lower in tone and more
depressed in mind.

Was she in good spirits ? " he asked again.

Eandolph ! how could she be in good spirits
when her mother has been dead only so short a
time ! " was Hortensia's grave rebuke.

No ; of course not ; not really jolly ; but
there are degrees, you know," said Randolph,
sensibly if clumsily. " Did she speak of Cyril ?
Did she seem to regret him in any wa" ? " he
then asked in the same headlong way as before,
unconsciously blocking up the avenue against
his cousin's proselytizing intentions.

'certainly not," said Hortensia, pinching
her lips. " She is too much devoted to her
father to think of any one else."

"Her love for her father has nothing todo
with her love for Cyril," said Eandolph.
Surely it is a girl's duty to love the fellow to
whom she is engaged ! "

But she owes her first duty to her father,"
said Hortensia. "And such a father!" she
added with enthusiasm. " Stella is blessed and
honoured in giving her life to such a man as

that ! She will never have such glorious happiness
as she has now ! "

Oh, I say, come now ! " ejaculated Randolph.
His cousin's ardour disconcerted him.
You go too far, Hortensia. Mr. Branscombe
is not all that by a long way ! I confess he is
much too fine for me. I cannot digest such a
lot of cream and sugar. It is all too hot-pressed
and superfine all round," he added, with a
generous confusion of similes.

It pains me to see you incapable of appreciating
such a pure and delicate genius as Mr.
Branscombe's ! " said Hortensia with severity

At least I appreciate you and Stella Branscombe,"
was the answer made with affectionate
gallantry.

But the prim little face did not relax. If she
had to convince Randolph of his present state
of moral blindness and spiritual abasement, and
convert him to higher things, Hortensia felt
that she must not humour his weakness nor
submit to his follies. And compliments are
follies  unless rendered sublime utterances by
such poetic genius as that possessed by Mr.
Branscombe.

Stella is very good in her way," she
answered gravely ; " as for me, of course, I am
nothing !  but though Stella is very nice and

dear, she is not equal to her father. She is of
silver if you like, but Mr. Branscombe is gold,
pure gold ! "

She raised her eyes as she said this, and
looked up into the sky as if worshipping the
clouds overhead.

Frederick Branscombe, handsome, old, showy,
well-preserved, full of frothy sentiment and of
superficial talent, talking rubbish in hazy
language and a stage voice, uttering platitudes
as if they were divine truths newly revealed,
exacting homage for his own part but saying
back to his young devotee almost as much as he
exacted  Frederick Branscombe, whose poetry
and art had killed his wife and threatened to do
the same by his daughter  was the present god
of Hortensia Lyon's devotion, the hero of her
waking dreams and the idol of her imagination.

She was not what is meant by being in love
with him ; but she loved him. She never
thought of him as a man by whose side she
might one day stand in the equality of mutual
love. He was only her ideal realized  the
God-like poet at whose feet she knelt and whose
favour was her highest honour. Had she been
older things would have been different ; but
with such a girl as she was, her passionate
enthusiasm was without the consciousness of

self or the foreshadowing of danger. So far
indeed from carrying with it any sentiment of
peril, it seemed to her the pre-eminent glory of
her life; and the proudest confession of her
own worthiness was in the knowledge that she
could understand and fitly reverence such surpassing
worth as Mr. Branscomhe's. In short
she was in the romantic and devotional stage of
her mental existence when she must have her
fetish. She might have gone in for Eitualism
or Methodism  she might have devoted herself
to painting ivy-leaves and apple-blossoms,
or to the interpretation of Wagner and the
violin  she might have written a novel, a
tragedy, or Sonnets to Despair, to the Moon,
to Death and to Disappointment  she might
have given her heart to her cousin Randolph
Mackenzie as the apotheosis of the commonplace,
or have dreamed out a hero for herself
after the pattern of Byron's Corsair or Trelaw-
ney's Younger Son  she might have studied
anatomy by the plates in her father's Encyclopedia
 have made her favourite saint of
Victoria Woodhull and her heroine of Yea
Sassulitch  but she did none of these things.
She simply put Stella's father, that elegant and
superb Mr. Branscombe, on a pedestal in the
sanctuary of her imagination and gave herself

lip to his worship as the highest to which she
could attain.

Her cousin followed her eyes as they looked
np into the sky, their gaze so full of enthusiastic
devotion.

No, Hortensia, he is not all that," he said
again with sturdy honesty. " And between
the two which is best  Mr. Branscombe, who
has forced his daughter to make such a
tremendous sacrifice, just to keep him company,
or Stella, who had given up her lover for her
father? You cannot make two words as to
which is the most noble and unselfish ! My
only doubt is that Stella has gone over the line
and done more than she need, or even ought."

I do not compare them," answered Hortensia
coldly. " Mr. Branscombe has only
demanded what is due to him as a father ; and
Stella has only done her duty as a daughter."

And Cyril Ponsonby ? " asked the fidus
Achates reproachfully. " It seems to me that
Cyril comes badly off among you all ! No one
thinks of him ; and yet he has Stella's promise,
and the engagement was sanctioned by both
the father and mother before poor Mrs. Branscombe
died."

That makes all the difference," said Hortensia
in her turn reproachfully. '' Would you

have such a man as Mr. Branscombe left quite
alone, with no one to look. after his comforts, no
one to be his companion, no one to love him, or
care for him ? Randolph ! I am shocked ! If
one has to suffer, of course it ought to be Cyril.
In the first place he is younger, and can bear it
better; and in the next place he is not half so
splendid as Mr. Branscombe, and it does not
signify whether he is happy or not. Certainly
Stella should have given up Cyril for her
father ! She has done only her plain duty."

"I do not think so," said Eandolph. "I
think that having given her promise, she ought
to have stuck to Cyril."

I shall not talk to you any more," said
Hortensia with dignity. " You are hopeless ! "

She turned away with an offended air. Had
he not scoffed at her god ?  extinguished the
fragrant incense burning before his shrine ? 
swept off the flowers with which she had
garlanded the sacred image ? He was then
rightly ostracized and excommunicated, at least
for the moment ; as a faithful worshipper she
would hold no friendly terms with him till her
wrath had cooled.

Now you are angry with me, Hortensia ! "
said her cousin, following at her heels and
speaking with humility and sorrow, but not

with the true penitence of one who acknowledges
his wrong and goes back on his words.

No, I am not angry, I am only hurt and
disappointed," she answered stiffly. ' I had
hoped better things of you, Eandolph."

Better things than what ? " he asked
boyishly. " What have I said or done that is
so bad as all that ? I only take Cyril's part ;
which is but natural when you come to think
of it."

That does not make it right," said Hortensia.
"To be natural is not always to be
noble."

I am sorry to have vexed you," he returned ;
but I am Cyril's friend, as you know ; and if
I do not stick to him, who ought ? "

You should prefer the truth even to friendship,"
was her lofty reply.

I don't see any falsehood in what I have
said," he answered hastily.

He was only a dense, good-hearted athlete,
and not well up in moral philosophy of a
refined kind.

She raised her small round shoulders with an
impatient gesture.

'I did not say you told stories," she said
contemptuously. " Truth does not mean only
that. How can you be so home, Randolph ? "

Oh, now you are going too far ahead of
me," he said with frank bewilderment. "I do
not follow you, Hortensia."

I do not suppose you do," she answered,
her foot on the door-step. " Mr. Branscombe
would have understood me," she added, flinging
her Parthian shaft as she took her way to her
own room upstairs, where Randolph could not
follow her.

So the bitter taste in his mouth was mor
bitter still, and the uneasiness that oppressed
him was made still more onerous by this jarring
conversation where every note had been
discordant, and where his cousin's curious
depreciation of himself had been in exact ratio
with her exaggerated admiration of Mr. Branscombe.
It was all very odd and very hard, he
thought with a heavy sigh. Everything
seemed to have got out of gear somehow, and
he did not see how matters were to be put
right  in chief part because he did not understand
the secret springs by which they had
gone wrong.

And what could lie do for Cyril ? The poor
old fellow seemed to rely on him so much, and
he had no more power than a cat to change the
cross-current of events. lie could not even see
Stella, for he had no excuse to give for a second

call SO soon after the first ; and since her
mother's death she had never been outside the
Lodge gates, save when she and her father
went in the close carriage to return the formal
visits of condolence and to church. And they
did not even go to church every Sunday ; and
when they did they went in long before the
service began, and stayed until every one had
left, and the old sexton was beginning to lock
up. So how could he see her ? And yet how
much he should like to talk to her of Cyril and
to do what he could to press the poor old
fellow's claims. If only he could find an excuse
for calling at Eose Hill !  if only he had a
woman's fertile brain so that he could invent
something out of nothing and give reasons
where none existed !

And thinking all this, his desire grew too
strong for fear or prudence ; and he resolved to
brave all the consequences, to break the ice of
wisdom and propriety, and to call boldly at the
house.

What can that young man want ? " asked
Mr. Branscombe with marked displeasure when
the servant brought in the news that Mr.
Eandolph Mackenzie was in the drawing-room.
I do not approve of these frequent visits from
young men. In your position, ray Stella, deprived

of maternal care and guidance as you
are, you cannot be too careful."

He did not ask specially for me, dear papa,"
said Stella. " Most likely he asked for you."

But her heart beat fast, and she felt so far
untrue in that she was very sure that Randolph
had come to see her, because he was Cyril's
friend and she was Cyril's lover.

Oh ! I have no time to bestow on a brainless
young oaf like that," said Mr. Branscombe
with impatient contempt. "If he has to be
admitted at all you must do the honours. It
is impossible for me to bring myself to his low
level ! Tell him I am engaged. It would be
better indeed to tell him that we are both
engaged and cannot receive him."

Perhaps I had better see him for just a
moment," said Stella, who had risen and made
a few steps away from the table.

Her face was pale and eager. She pushed
back her hair from her forehead  her poor
mother's frequent gesture  and looked almost
hysterically anxious and excited.

He may have brought a message from
Hortensia," she then added with unconscious
and instinctive hypocrisy. It was the first
thing that came into her mind, and she did
ont wait to ask herself whether she really

believed her own suggestion or not  nor why
she had put forward the pretty little Puritan
as the most likely solvent of her father's will.

Ah ? So ? In that case then go," said
Mr. Branscombe graciously ; '' but do not belong,
my child. Your time is too precious to
be spent on such as Mr. Randolph Mackenzie,"
with a slight sneer  " employed too profitably
here in this little Temple of Sweetness and
Light to be dissipated in the nothings of his
crass conversation ! "

I will be back directly, papa," said Stella ;
and her father looked after her with genuine
surprise at the strange quickness with which
she made her exit  he could almost have called
it her escape. It was scarcely like Stella  his
Stella  to vanish in that abrupt way, as if
leaving him were a pleasure and a relief.

Youth is a great mistake," said the gentleman
poet to himself " The freshness of its
skin and the beauty of its emotions are more
than balanced by its frivolities and selfishness.
The restless inability of this child of mine to
sit still for half an hour together  the indifference
which I am beginning to suspect she feels
for my work in comparison with any mindless
little diversion, such even as this young man's
unintellectual conversation  both perplex and

VOL. II. c

>i

annoy me. Ah ! my good Matilda was better
broken-in than this !  and that precious pearl
of maidenhood, that receptive, appreciative,
loving little Hortensia would have been infinitely
more sympathetic than I find my own
child ! "

Mr. Branscombe sighed as he thought this 
sighed over the want of heart-whole devotion
which, though not distinctly manifested, he was
beginning to suspect in Stella, the daughter
whose highest interests he thought he had
consulted by taking her away from her lover
and binding close to his own side.

Meanwhile the two young people had clasped
hands in the drawing-room ; and Eandolph had
opened at once on the real purport of his visit.

I have had a letter from Cyril, to-day," he
said abruptly.

She flushed, smiled, looked anxious, pleased
excited, earnest. Then the tears rushed into
her eyes as she asked in a low voice :

Yes ? and what does he say ? "

"Oh, he is so unhappy ! " Eandolph answered.
" And you cannot wonder at it," he
added. "It is rough on the poor old fellow ;
and the wonder is how he gets along at all."

What can I do ? " cried Stella in despair.
I cannot leave papa. He is so helpless alone.

and has become so dependent on me since poor
mamma went  I must not leave him."

But are you never going to marry Cyril ? "
asked Cyril's friend, opening his large blue eyes.

Yes, yes ! some day," she answered
hurriedly.

Some day ?  that is rather vague. Some
day ?  but when ? "

She shook her head.

' I do not know," she said hopelessly.

He will go to India, and then he will not
be back in England for years and years," said
Randolph.

The tears came again into her eyes. He felt
like an executioner and a brute for giving her
so much distress. He would like to have
sworn at himself, given himself a knock or a
cut somewhere for self-revenge at his brutality ;
but he vvas the agent of another ; he was not
quite responsible ; and he must do his duty by
Cyril though he did make Stella suffer.

If I left papa and harm came of it I should
feel his murderer," she said. " And he is so
sensitive and easily wounded ! I should never
know a day's peace if I left him."

"And poor Cryil ? You do not think of
him ? " said Randolph.

He knows that I love him better than my

life  better than anything in the world but my
duty. I tell him so in every letter I write,"
she said, clasping her white hands nervously in
each other. " Cyril knows that I do love him !
Tell him so  tell him that you know that I
do ! " she added, looking up into Randolph's
face as if he held the destinies of the world in
his hands, because he had been made the
clumsy, broad-shouldered Mercury for the occasion,
trusted with the precious burden of
Cyril's love for her and now having to carry
back the weight of hers to him.

I will," said Randolph in a low voice.

How strange it was to him to be thus trusted
by her  made her confidant and messenger 
and yet how delightful ! He had never in his
life felt so honoured as now when Stella Branscombe
looked up into his face and sent her love
by him to Cyril Ponsonby ! What a divine
creature she was !  how sweet and gracious, how
noble and beautiful, how perfect all through 
mind and person, character and face alike !
Poor Cyril !  no, not poor Cyril  enviable,
blessed rather to be the beloved of such a
radiant Star as this !

'ris he coming down soon ? " then asked
Randolph after a pause. " He seems to speak
of it in his letter to me."

I tell him he had better not," answered
Stella with a hopeless look and accent.

Surely yes ! You will not let him go to
India and not see you before he goes ? " asked
Randolph hastily.

I want to see him, oh, more than I can
say ! " she answered ; " but papa was against
it when I spoke to him the other day, and said
that Cyril must wait. He could not bear to
see him just yet ; and I could understand that.
Poor papa ! "

Oh, that was the reason, then, of this letter
to me to-day. Now I can understand it," said
Randolph a little bitterly. " Ton my soul, it
is rough on him," he added.

But if papa objects I cannot help myself,"
said Stella.

You owe something to Cyril  surely you
owe something to a fellow now you are engaged
to him ! " pleaded Randolph.

I know I do ; but if papa will not let him
come, what can I possibly do ? " pleaded in her
turn Stella.

Stick up for your rights," said CyriFs
friend.

Again she shook her head.

It would be impossible against papa's wish
and command," she answered. " Girls are not

like boys  we must obey our parents ; you
need not always, if you do not like."

But Randolph would not allow that.

Girls have as much right to stick up as
men," he said ; " and you should not be forced
into what you think wrong or do not like."

The conversation turning always round this
central point, lasted longer time than Stella knew
or had intended. She woke to the fact of the
hour with a kind of guilty start ; sent Randolph
away hurriedly ; and went back to her father
in his studio, having only made her eyes red,
her head ache, her heart more sore than it had
been already ; and having come no nearer than
before to a satisfactory solution of her life's
great problem  how to content both Cyril and
her father, and low to make each happy at the.
same time.

What a terribly long time you have been ! "
said Mr. Branscombe peevishly, as she entered.
*rand my work, neglected all these hours 
stopping for want of you ! "

I am so sorry, dear papa. I do not know
how the time went so fast ! " she said ingenuously.


And what message did he bring fi'om your
little friend, Hortensia ? " asked that young
maiden's elderly idol, stopping in his work of

stippling up a piece of painting supposed to
represent Mr. Lyon's pretty and somewhat
wrong-headed little daughter.

Stella started. It was not often that she felt
the guilty thing, self-convicted, she felt now ;
but truth to say she had forgotten Hortensia as
if she had never existed, and during the whole
of that long hour's interview her name had not
once been mentioned.

'' He did not bring me any," she answered,
lowering her eyes.

Then may I venture to ask of what you
have been talking  you and this brainless
young man, for a good hour by the clock ? "
asked her father satirically.

Cyril," answered Stella simply.

My dear," said Mr. Branscombe, turning-round
from his easel and speaking angrily ;
'' that Cyril Ponsonby of yours is becoming a
confounded nuisance, and you will have to give
him his cone if he intrudes himself thus in
all our sacred moments."

Papa ! " she said, looking at him with a
white and frightened face.

If he does not know how to respect your
present painful position  if he fails to understand
your duties  he must be made," continued
Mr. Branscombe, still irate.

"What has he done ? Oh, papa ! do not
speak like that! Cyril has done nothing to
vex you. He has been dutiful and patient,"
said Stella with a sob.

Be calm, Stella  be calm and reasonable,"
returned her father. " It argues a lower
mental development than I care to see in my
child that she should have given her fancy 
I can scarcely call it by the sacred name of
love  to one so utterly destitute of the higher
culture as this young Cyril Ponsonby. And
do not cry. Tears spoil a woman's face, and
yours in especial. You have not the complexion
that supports tears. Besides they are
barbarous expressions of feeling, of which the
truly civilized ought to be ashamed. Do your
duty ; trust in Providence ; and come to your
father's arms ! " he added, laying down his
palette and brush and opening his arms with
half majestic, half paternal tenderness.

Papa ! dear, dear papa ! Do not break my
heart ! " said Stella, burying her face in his
bosom and disregarding his injunction by weeping
passionately.

My child ! do not you break mine ! " he
answered gravely, with a tremor in his voice
that was one of his most effective bits of histrionic
furniture.

And between these two terrible fires of love
and duty  these two irreconcilable attachments,
each of which was as dear to her as her very-life
 the poor girl stood as the victim of fate
the Andromeda of sacrifice whom no Persons
deliver.

CHAPTER II.

BY THE LOGIC OF APPEARANCES.

A COMMISSION from Mr. Branscombe was no
sinecure. Like all well-born amateurs he
despised " professionals '' while profiting by
their technical ability, and maintained that the
general refinement belonging to a cultivated
gentleman gave more real insight than the
mere mechanical ability of man who had learned
only that one thing. He was an admirer of
what Americans call an all-round man ; and he
was himself, to his own mind, emphatically that
man. Consequently, thinking that he knew
better in all things  save how to manipulate
the materials  than the artist whom he had
employed, and though the work was already
in the stone-cutter's hands, he worried Sandro
Kemp over this monument to his good Matilda,
as Mrs. Prinsep's unfortunate lodger had never

been worried before ; sending for him at all
unearthly and inconvenient times to come upto
Rose Hill that this point light be considered,
that new idea ventilated, such and such
an alteration made and such and such an improvement
added.

Sandro Kemp is all very well as a skilled
artisan," he said to Stella with his finest air ;
' but he is only a poor creature when you come
to creative imagination. He wants the application
of the divine fire to be made anything
of. It is singular how difficult it is to find a
man with any real genius," he added. " How
soulless and dead all these professional fellows
are ! Compared to men of real artistic feeling,
of real aesthetic refinement, they are merely
hodie of a superior kind  bricklayers and
carpenters who have learned the use of their
tools and can turn out work more or less
mechanically correct. But when you come to
genius, then," said Mr. Branscombe, lightly
laying his white fingers on his somewhat
narrow and certainly shallow breast, you
must have the gentleman, not the professional ! "

And Stella believed her dear papa implicitly.
Nevertheless, hearing as she did all that went
on, she could not quite shut her ears or blind
her eyes to the fact that after all it was really

Sandro who had the better taste and the
superior judgment  Sandro who negatived and
Sandro who proposed  and that her beloved
and elegant father's ideas were gently but
inexorably set aside and shown to be impossible,
impracticable and inadmissible. She was
half inclined to quarrel with the artist for his
tenacity and presumption ; only that she could
not deny what was so patent  the better treatment
of her dear mother's monument in his
hands.

And thus again, between the living and the
dead, was in her mind the same kind of distracted
loyalty as that which existed between
her father and her lover ; and she found the
full, free devotion to that sublime parental
Apollo hedged round with strange difficulties
and wicked little thorns of mental opposition.
But the habits of a life are hard to change and
the religion of youth clings close. The worship
of her father, inculcated from her earliest days,
was as the marrow of her bones, the very blood
of her heart ; and it would take more than the
evidence of false artistic taste to warp her
loving nature from its early loyalty or substitute
for her present fond belief the colder judgment
of criticism and doubt.

One day however, when Sandro had been

up to Eose Hill as usual, and liaci also as usual
been obliged to prove the infallible amateur all
wrong and grossly ignorant of the first principles
of that art whereof he professed to be a
master, he met Stella's eyes fixed on him with
a strange expression of mingled surprise and
fear. It was one of those looks which reveal
more than the person is conscious of feeling ;
like the first automatic movements of a sleeper
beginning to awake. It was the flash of a
moment  the first stirring of the sleeping perception
; but Sandro, who could read the human
face as other men read books save when his
eyes were blinded by his heart  understood the
significance and foreshadowing of that strange
expression and thought to himself that he
must be more careful, more discreet for the
future, and manage somehow to unite with
greater delicacy his own self-respect as an artist
with kindly regard for her filial superstition.
"Which was about the most difficult thing in the
world when dealing with Mr. Branscombe on
any matter whatever in the presence of his
daughter.

Sandro saw too, how ill and changed she
was ; and this was another inducement to him
to be tender of that maddening old humour, ashe
mentally called the Finery Fred of forty

years ago, for her poor dear sake if in no wise
for his own.

That look of latent terror at what was before
her to discover and the signs of her failing
health still haunting him, Sandro, coming along
the road, saw at a little distance Augusta
Latrobe walking in her quiet leisurely way
taking her boy for his afternoon run. The two
had not met since the famous picnic, now some
weeks old ; and Sandro fancied that he had
been nursing his jealousy and disappointment
into a very good beginning of indifference, and
that really the fair-faced widow was no more to
him than any other pretty woman who looked
well in a picture, and was pleasant to talk to
because soft in voice and reasonable in thought.
He scarcely expected his heart to beat as it did
when he turned the corner and saw her handsome
figure coming to meet him with that undulating
grace for which she was famous. He
was vexed that his blood should dash through
his veins at this headlong speed  for which
however the weather alone was answerable. It
happened to be a chilly and unpleasant day,
but our variable old atmosphere is the general
scapegoat all round, and blow hot blow cold is
ever in fault.

As soon as Augusta saw who it was in the

light brown suit that was striding between the
hedgerows, she drew her veil over her face ;
and, Sandro being in that state compared to
which the porcupine is ideal smoothness, winced
at the action. It never entered into his head,
which the wound in his heart made abnormally
dense, that it was to put up a screen against
self-betrayal. It was a screen sure enough, but
against him not herself. And it checked the
impulse which else he might have had, to tell
her all about himself and his two grand commissions
and how at last the door seemed
opening which was to lead him into the great
temple of fame and the treasure-house of
wealth. No ; she cared nothing for him, he
thought bitterly. Why should he oppress her
with his confidence, and claim for his good
fortune that sympathy which she had evidently
denied to his bad ? No ; let himself and all
that made his life  all the facts of his career
and all the feelings of his soul  be obliterated.
He was nothing to her. Why then waste his
strength in trying to waken the dead ?  to
make the deaf hear and the dumb speak ?

If he had put his sensations into words, this
would have been the form they would have
taken, as he rapidly narrowed the distance
which lay between him and Augusta, till he

came close to her and could see lier sweet face
even through that insulting screen of gauze.
For half an instant he intended only to bow
and pass on. It would be more dignified and
more manly. But something stronger than his
pride held his feet, and he stopped almost
against his will, and held out his hand.

The boy ran up to him full of a child's
caressing pleasure when he hails one who is
always kind and pleasant and is therefore
beloved ; one associated in his little mind with
now a top and now a ball, sometimes a picture
and once a grand treat which he should never
forget  a whole boxful of chocolate! The
widow's colour mounted to her cheeks in that
pretty pale pink blush which was so becoming,
yet which betrayed so little conscious confusion;
and then the two clasped hands, and
Sandro's good imitation of indifference fell to
pieces like a broken maronite.

He loved her. Yes ; he loved her. His love
was hopeless and not returned ; that he knew
now if once he had thought somewhat differently
; still, he loved her, and he should love
her for the whole of his life. But what hope
was there for him in that quiet manner, that
calm voice, those clear and steadfast eyes which
neither wavered nor fell, neither darkened nor

softened ?  eyes which looked at him as steadily
as a child's, and yet not quite full into his.
His indifference was only feigned, but hers 
hers was real.

Flung off from his own concerns Sandro, half
in earnest about Stella, half to make some kind
of relation, however shadowy, with Augusta,
told her how ill the girl was looking and asked
her boldly to go to Rose Hill and see her. She
would be sure to do the poor thing good, he
added with more meaning in his words than
he cared to show. If she would talk to her and
be kind and sympathetic, she could do her so
much good !

This function of talking to people and doing
them good was one of Augusta Latrobe's offices,
assigned to her by universal belief and consent.
She was a woman in whose beneficent influence
every one who knew her had unbounded confidence.
She was assumed to have an almost
magnetic power over the minds of others ; and
G-et Mrs. Latrobe to talk to her " or " him ''
was a formula in common use at Highwood
when there was a recalcitrant or a hot-headed
member of the community whom others wished
to bring into the way of reason and conformity.
So now Sandro said to her, according to the
popular temper and belief: "I have just come

YOL. TI. D

from Rose Hill, where I wish you would go
and talk to poor Miss Branscombe ! "

"You are often at Rose Hill now," said
Augusta, letting the request lie while she took
up only the statement.

Yes ; that eternal monument will never beat
an end until it is finally put up ; and perhaps
not then," he answered.

I heard you had undertaken poor darling
Mrs. Branscombe's monument," she returned.
Who told you ? " he asked smiling.
Colonel Moneypenny," she answered, with
admirable self-possession and blameless cruelty.
I do not know that it was any business of
his," said Sandro quickly, his eyes very dark
and his face very pale.

"In a small place like this everything is
every one's business," she answered. " At all
events every one knows that you have this
monument to do."

I wanted to tell you myself," he said,
forgetting the resolution of his offended dignity.
That I might congratulate dr condole ? "
she answered lightly. "I am glad that you
have an opportunity of showing us what you
can do ; but I should think to work with or for
Mr. Branscombe would take all the gilt off the
ginger-bread  if it were an inch thick ! "

Yes it does," lie answered ; " and the pleasure
is dearly bought. But I want to speak to
you of poor Miss Branscombe. I wish you
would go up and see her," he repeated.

Why ? " she returned, looking up with a
half-sad, half-amused smile.

Because if you would talk to her you would
do her good," he said.

The smile brightened into a laugh.

Every one comes to me to talk to people,"
she said. " What do you want me to say ? "

I do not know," he answered simply. " If
I did perhaps I should have said it myself.
But she is looking distressingly ill, and she is
manifestly out of spirits altogether. I think her
father keeps her too close and that she wants
more change, more companionship, more fresh air
in short, rousing out of herself, poor thing."

That is a case for Dr. Quigley, not for me,"
said Augusta, as the doctor's high gig and fast
trotter rounded the corner and came at a swift
pace towards them.

Confound the fellow ! " muttered Sandro,
who wished the doctor and his machine at the
bottom of the Red Sea ; but he put on the
hypocritical smile of conventional welcome, and
said nothing about the fate of Pharaoh and his
hosts, as he gave the doctor ' Good-day."

Dr. Quigley, Mr. Kemp has something to
say to you," said Augusta quite gravely, as the
doctor stopped his horse and looked at the two,
keenly, searchingly, as he had looked at them
on the day of the picnic when they were all
assembled at Crossing's Bridge.

Say ? what ? " he asked.

Only that I think Miss Branscombe is looking
ill, and that her father keeps her too much
shut up in that stifling room he calls his
studio," said Sandro Kemp, he too speaking
with the most praiseworthy gravity, and as if
Stella's health were really the only thing that
lay between the widow and himself  the only
chord that vibrated in unison.

And I am to interfere ? " asked Dr. Quigley.

Yes," both answered together.

My dear people," he returned with energy ;
are you living in Arcadia ? The man who
would not take care of his wife with heart-disease
is not likely to look after his daughter
without. The only chance is that Stella Branscombe
should understand her true position and
her father's illimitable selfishness  and then
break her heart at the discovery. If ever she
comes to know what he is, and takes action on
her knowledge, she will die under the self-reproach
of a parricide. When the conscience

is included in upholding a siam, and sacrificing
the truth for a living lie has all the force and
meaning of virtue, you cannot do anything.
Stella Branscombe is a martyr to filial love, and
her father is a parental sham ; but she must
fight it out by herself."

'' But it is pitiable to see her ! " said Sandro
warmly.

"" Things might be worse if she were enlightened,"
said the doctor. " I question if she
would live through the discovery. Take my
advice, both of you ;  do not mix yourself up
in this matter. Xo outsider interfering, even
with the best motives, in family matters, does
good or escapes personal damage. Why burn
your fingers when there are no chestnuts topick
out for yourself or for others ? I will keep
an eye on the poor youjig lady, and put in my
word when I see her really in danger ; but until
then remonstrance would only irritate Mr. Branscombe
and make matters worse. Good day ;
take care of yourselves," he added significantly
as he drove off; leaving a certain uneasy doubt
in Augusta's mind as to what was really meant
by taking care of themselves. But she supposed
it was only because of her desire to " talk to "
Stella Branscombe. It could not be anything
else.

I think Dr. Quigley is right," she said with
false equanimity, as he drove away. "I do
not mind speaking to Stella, or to any one, if
I think I can he of use ; and I am no more
afraid of Mr. Branscomhe, for all his fine airs
and superiority, than I am of one of those sheep
in the field. But I do not think I can do any
good. Stella has taken her part ; and, as Dr.
Quigley says, she must fight it out by herself."

I should have been glad if you had followed
my suggestion," said the artist with a sore
manner.

She looked him full in the face.

Are you too, one of the men who would
rather be personally pleased by obedience than
know that opposition had been the more reasonable]
action ? " she asked gravely. " I had
thought not. If you are one of those people
I would rather not be enlightened."

You are the one perfect woman in the
world ! " he said warmly.

She laughed and turned away, looking at
her boy.

No," she answered after a short pause ; '* I
am only reasonable."

Nevertheless she determined in her own
mind that she would go and see Stella Branscombe
tomorrow ; only what good she was todo

when lie had gone, was of all questions at
this moment the most unanswerable.

She held out her hand in sign of leave-taking.
He took it and kept it.

I know you will be glad to hear that I have
received my order," he then said gazing into
her face. "I am to have Mr. Woodley's
mansion, and I have finished my designs for
the Limestone Cathedral. I think they come
well enough to bear competition ; and I am
not afraid of the future."

I am very glad," she answered, imprudently
letting her hand lie in his for congratulation.

It was a most unpardonable piece of folly
in so reasonable a woman ; but human nature
is weak and foolish even at the best, and hasa
trick of leaving the little postern gate open
after it has carefully shut close the great main
entrance. For not only did that soft submission
to the more impulsive action of the artist rouse
thoughts and awaken hopes which had better
be left dormant, but it put the pretty widow
into a false position with others as well, and
gave a handle for thoughtlessness, if not ill-nature,
to turn the grindstone against her.

To Gip and Pip, coming streaming along the
road, the sight of those two standing there,
hand in hand, looking into each other's eyes,

was too sweet a nut to be left unchecked. The
discovery of " spoons " was a true godsend to
them, and they were sure to make the world
a generous present of all they lighted on in the
way of erotic treasures. As destitute of delicacy
as of spite, they never thought they could
do harm by their oecumenical confidence. If
they had they would have shut those wide-open
mouths of theirs, and kept the secret religiously.
But as they did not mind how much they themselves
were chaffed they supposed every one
else must be as thick-skinned and insensitive ;
and thus, the suspicion of the Doves that anything
was on hand, came to be a kind of nightmare
to hesitating, shy, declared, or as in
this case unwilling, lovers. Nevertheless, the
thing had come ; and Grip and Pip, the most
good-natured, inconsiderate and innocent 
in Highwood, had found the
penniless widow and impecunious artist standing
in the high-road hand in hand, and looking
  " Oh ! " said Gip ; " looking spoons as big as
tureens at each other ! "

And let old Mrs. Morshead but once get hold
of that idea, and then where would be poor
Augusta's peace of mind and security of tenure!
The widow was equal to the occasion, however,
as she generally was ; and as the twins

came up she repeated in a clear, ringing

voice

I am indeed glad, Mr. Kemp, and congratulate
you

"On what?" shouted the Doves, full of
wicked laughter and radiant detection.

Ah, what ! " said Mrs. Latrobe, also laughing
in the most natural way in the world.
You must ask Mr. Kemp himself. He has
just done me the honour to make me his confidante
on a most important matter ; but I must
not pass it on. If he likes to include you, welland
good ; but you see I am bound to secrecy ! '

"What is it, Mr. Kemp?" asked Gip and
Pip together. " Are you going to be married ?
Are you ? If you are, oh ! do tell us who it
is. Any one here ? It must be some one
here ! "Who is it, Augusta ? I am sure you
know ! " with more wickedness of laughter,
more radiance of detection. 

"Well, no, I can answer so much," said
Augusta, her gaiety of humour still matching
theirs. "It is not to any one here. But I
must leave you to find it all out by yourselves.
Good-bye, girls. Good-bye, Mr. Kemp, and be
quite sure I will never tell ! " *

On which she went off still laughing, leaving
Sandro Kemp struck dumb with amazement.

His man's slower brain had not discerned the
danger which had been palpable at the first
flash to her ; and, not understanding the peril,
he did not understand the way of escape. He
was bewildered. All this laughter and phantasmagoric
mystery made him feel as if suddenly
surrounded by a crowd of mocking elves who
took his senses clean away and made the things
which had hitherto been clear and solid appear
vague and visionary. What did it all mean ?
Why did they all laugh ? and at what were
they all hinting ? Married ? Confidence ?
Secrets ? It was a puzzle from first to last,
and he could see nothing better for it than
to follow blindly the bewildering lead that had
been given him, and shake his head knowingly
as he laughed without sense or meaning,
and answered in the air :

Ah, what ? Wait till I tell you ! I will
some day."

On which he dashed off on his way, as if
escaping from pursuers ; and Gip and Pip ran
after Augusta and besieged her with questions
for a full half-hour by the church clock. but
they got nothing out of her save vague suggestions
which only served to make their mad
guesses surer. Either it was an engagement
to some one not at Highwood, of which the

secret had been confided to Augusta, or  was
it, could it be, Augusta herself? For what
else could they make of that attitude, those
looks on the broad highway, and the " spoons
as big as tureens " exchanged between the two ?

CHAPTER III.

THE CRITIC OF PURE REASON.

Our true masters are our servants. From the
dark background of the kitchen they rule the
house, dictate our actions and set the lines of
our public repute ; we, all the while, thinking
that we rule them while they govern us. And
the Rose Hill servants were no exception to
the rule. Jones had given it as his opinion
that Miss Stella was kept far too close by her
pa' ; and the servants' hall had agreed with
him that it would be good for her to see more
company and be brightened up a bit. Wherefore,
in spite of the standing order that " Mr.
and Miss Branscombe were not at home " when
intrusive visitors chose to call, the day after
this odd misleading interview on the high-road,
he let in Augusta Latrobe, and took the chance
of a wigging from his old master, as he said.

for the sake of doing a good turn by this young
mistress.

Mrs. Latrobe ? I cannot see ber ! Tell
her I am indisposed  engaged  out  anything
you like ; but I cannot see her ! " said Mr.
Branscombe peevishly. " How often must I
repeat it, Jones, I am not at home to any one
excepting on business, or where I myself give
leave ? "

Mrs. Latrobe seemed very earnest, sir, to
see Miss Branscombe," said the man with
respectful pertinacity. " She would not take
a refusal."

* Then she should have been made," said Mr.
Branscombe crossly ; but Stella, with something
of her mother's weary look added to her own
more excited nervousness, said quickly :

Poor Augusta ! I should like to see her,
dear papa, if you do not mind. I have not seen
her for such a long time now; and she was
such a favourite with poor mamma ! "

Your dear mother made a great many
undesirable favourites," said Mr. Branscombe
significantly. " However, if you wish it, I
will spare you for a little while ; and  stay, I
myself will go with you," he added with an indescribable
air of condescension. " As you say
Mrs, Latrobe was a favourite with your joor

mother, and I shall pay respect to her memory
by conquering my own dislike and receiving
her friend with courtesy and distinction. Jones,
tell Mrs. Latrobe that Miss Branscombe and
I will join her immediately."

What a wicked girl she was growing !
thought Stella to herself. Why did she feel
that strange sense of check and chillness when
her dear father said that he also would see Mrs.
Latrobe ? Why should she not be as glad now
as she would have been in former days ? Poor
papa ! He had doomed himself as well as her
to this close, shut-up, solitary and eminently
mournful life. It was as good, then, for him
as for her, to have a break; and she was
abominably wicked to wish that he had kept
away. Nevertheless she did, with a distinct
if momentary consciousness that overwhelmed
her first with disappointment and then with
a feeling of sin and shame. She went up to
her father and took his arm with a gesture that
looked like spontaneity of love ; in fact, it was
unspoken contrition.

Dear papa ! " she said fondly.

There, there, that will do, Stella ! " he answered
impatiently. She disturbed his thoughts
and broke through the rhythm of his movements
; and Mr. Branscombe liked to have his

love, like everything else, served up at the very
right moment and in just the manner and
amount congenial to him at the time. " You
must not allow your affection, my dear, to
become exigeante and ennuyante ! " he said ;
''or to tread on the limits of graver subjects."

To which she answered humbly : " No,
papa ; " but she felt wounded now as well as
wicked and repentant.

It will gratify her if I give her an early
copy of this," then said Mr. Branscombe, taking
one from a pile of quarto-sized black-bordered
and hot-pressed cards which had come in from
the printers' this morning.

It was his Threnody, printed in silver lettering,
to be distributed among his friends. Photographs
of himself and his good matilda headed
the double columns into which the poem was
divided ; and in the middle, above the title,
was a confused jumble of mortuary symbols
printed in flat deep black. The contrast of
black and white gave the card a curiously piebald
appearance ; but Mr. Branscombe thought
the mixture effective, and the sentiment which
united saintly beatitude with earthly mourning
one of supreme poetic excellence.

This was the pleasure, the dissipation and
the vanity of his later years. His old place as

Beauty-man and Finery Fred  this old character
of lady-killer  had dropped from him by the
force of circumstances, but not his ambition to
be Somebody in his society. He had elected
to be that Somebody in the field of esthetic
where no one in Highwood could touch him 
not even, in his own estimation, Sandro Kemp,
the professional artist. And the exquisite delight
to him of printing in a luxurious form
his poetry and his music, and then distributing
copies to all in the place, was almost as great
as had been formerly that of picking up another
and yet another little heart found fluttering at
his feet, and adding one more to the secret list
she had it yet  of confessed victims to his
irresistible charms.

She will be flattered and gratified," he
repeated, carefully choosing a copy where his
own photograph pleased him ; and Stella answered
in all good faith : " Yes." And yet 
why did she sigh as she spoke ?

As the two came into the drawing-room
together, Augusta felt exactly the same sense
of disappointment and chill that Stella had felt
before her ; without adding to it the poor girl's
shame for sin.

What a dreadful creature he is ! " she
thought, as the scented, well-curled, melancholy

and elegant widower came slowly forward,
evidencing the grace of refined gentlefolk
and the force of grief in equal proportions.

' What an affected old horror ! " she thought
again, smiling with the forced hypocrisy of
society as she returned the greeting which he
made with stately courtesy.

He was not what he would have called
"" fond of" Augusta Latrobe. Her critical
judgment and unenthusiastic reasonableness
annoyed him ; but even when he was not fond
of people he was never less than elegant. He
liked to feel sure that when they went away,
though they might say he had been distant,
they must confess he had been superior.

Here is a little thing I threw off the other
day," he said, handing her /fctte card. " I have
brought you the first copy, Mrs. Latrobe,
knowing the reverent affection that you had
for my poor wife and her kindly interest in
you. The sacredness of the subject and the
tenderness of the feeling with which it has
been composed will condone its shortcomings,"
he added with mock humility ; shortcomings in
his work being like the squaring of the circle
or the discovery of perpetual motion.

Augusta received the card with tranquil
politeness, but without warmth or enthusiasm.

VOL. IT. E

She did not, as lie hoped she would, run over
the poetry with that greedy kind of haste
which predestines admiration, nor did she even
look at his photograph. She turned to that of
Mrs. Branscomhe, and tears stole between her
eyelids as she looked.

Thank you, Mr. Branscomhe," she said
gently. " How like her ! Sweet darling ! how
like it is ! "

And this was her sole word of commendation
to the poet.

When he had shown the proofs to Hortensia
she had wept over his noble lines ; and especially
had that touching couplet which led off
the rest 

Sweet spirit, calling softly from the tomb
Where death has laid thee in Cimmerian gloom 

seemed to her the soul of all that was majestic,
eloquent and tender. But Mrs. Latrobe, scarcely
glancing at the silvered page, said nothing
more than : " Thank you," and concentrated
her attention on her dead friend's photograph
which evidently interested her infinitely more
than did his living lines.

Mr. Branscomhe could not choose but mark
the difference between these first two recipients
of his poem. How much the balance of good

taste, good feeling, appreciation and poetic insight
went to the side of his pretty Kettle
Puritan devotee !  and how strongly confirmed
was his own impression that his good Matilda
had had the habit of making very undesirable
favourites indeed !

But it was not in flesh and blood  at least
not in Mr. Branscombe's flesh and blood  to
remain content with such short measure. For
what reward did he work, live laborious days
and sleepless nights, he said, but for the praise
of his fellowmen ? He was not ashamed to confess
his ambition. That last infirmity of noble
minds was no spot on the face of his spiritual
sun. For if he had the one he surely had the
other. His ambition pre-supposed his nobility,
and he was spite content to confess the one if
credited with the other. He was intensely disgusted
with Mrs. Latrobe. Her want of appreciation
was a mark of intellectual crassitude,
which by rights should have debarred her for
the future from the privilege of his society'.
He would have refused to continue an acquaintance
with one who had eaten ease with his
knife ; and surely this was even worse taste and
the mark of a still lower condition ! Nevertheless,
he could not be at ease until he had forced
from her politeness that acknowledgment of

Library

liN/VERSITY HP llf/wn/o

his genius which she would not give by the
generosity of her judgment. Going over to
her as she sat on the ottoman, holding the cardin
her hand and still lovingly examining the
sweet face of her dead friend, he sat down in
the division next to hers. Leaning over her
shoulder with a confidential as well as patronizing
air, he said :

Allow me to read to you my little tribute to
her dear memory, Mrs. Latrobe. An author
knows his work better than any one else ; and the
first rendering of a poem sets the measure and
gives the sense in perpetuity. The poet alone
can render his lines in that perfection which
ensures complete understanding. Allow me."

He took the card from her hand and placed
himself in his bardic attitude  his hands well
displayed, his head well up, his small feet,
which the large bow in his shoes made still
more delicate, in a graceful position, the fingers
of his left hand laid lightly on his chest. And
when he had arranged his person according to
rule, he opened the wearisome fusillade of his
recitation, and mouthed through his Threnody
in the manner of a fifth-rate actor playing
Hamlet in a barn.

When he had finished, he sighed deeply and
handed back the card. Augusta took it with a

faint inclination of lier head and a wholly
unintelligible murmur that might mean anything
or nothing.

How do you think they go ? " asked Mr.
Branscombe after a moment's pause. " Well ? "

Very smoothly," answered Augusta.

She could say so much in truth ; for, in
reading, all the redundant feet were cleverly
jumped over and all the gaps were as cleverly
filled in by newly-created syllables, so that the
measure flowed with tolerable ease and the
actual dislocations were not noticeable.

Mr. Branscombe smiled.

' I am glad you like it," he said. " I own I
do also. I consider it the most satisfactory
thing I have ever done ; and an author is the
best judge of his own work. I think these
lines are fine," he continued, pointing out a
passage; "and these again," indicating another.
'' This image is bold, is it not ? " he next asked,
repeating a phrase which contained two false
quantities and nineteen words of absolute
nonsense ; " and this metaphor reads well ? " he
said again, half chanting a certain couplet, then
pausing for her reply.

But now, when Augusta came full front with
a fact which she had either to praise or to
blame, she could not do such violence to her

critical judgment as to endorse it. Had Mr.
Branscombe been content with generalities lie
would have followed his lead and would have
slid lightly over the dangerous places; but
when he asked her direct approbation of a
passage which said how the laughing hour that
struck at this sweet spirit's birth had now
run down and lost itself in the great sea of
eternity, she took her stand and entered her
demurrer.

I think it wants a little clearness," she
answered.

So ? and where ? The Hours which dance
around Aurora's car  the home domestic clock
the sands of time  the tide of life  these are
the ideas contained in the image," he returned.

Yes, but the classic Hour did not strike
and a clock does not run down into the sea,"
she said quite gravely.

There would be no poetry at all, my dear
Mrs. Latrobe, if we poets were confined by the
dull cords of prosaic fact," he said, amiably
condescending to her ignorance and what he
mentally called her earth-wariness. " All
true poetry encloses as much as it embodies.
You must read between the lines and find for
yourself the statue within the marble. Tho-value
of the image is its comprehensiveness, its

subtlety of suggest! ness, its combination of
ideas, the facetted quality of its reflectively.
Guido's Aurora and the grave diction of
modern ethics  where could you meet with a
more prolific combination, a more precious
embalmment of diversified thought ? "

I dare say not," said Augusta the earthworm
; " still I think it wants a little clearing
up and bringing out'

Now that I have explained it ? " he asked.

I see your meaning of course," she answered
reluctantly.

Even this admission tried her.

And, seeing, you justify ? "

She laughed. " I am so stupid in things of
this kind ! " sh said. " My opinion is worthless."


No, pardon me, lady, not in the least so,"
he returned. " Moliere's servant-maid stands
as a sign to all of us, creative geniuses. What
we write we naturally wish to be understood
by the world at large, else we labour in vain.
Herewith I except, of course, that audience, fit
though few, which is the consecrated interpreter
of our esoteric meaning. But the verdict of
that intelligence which represents the majority
is useful to us as a guide and gauge. I am
therefore glad to hear your objections. They

represent to ns the non-conducting power of the
larger half of the brain-world, and by them I
can feel the pulse of the general intellect more
clearly."

' I am your foolometer ? " She laughed
again, her bright eyes twinkling.

He bent his handsome head with elaborate
grace.

I did not say so," he returned gravely.

During all this time Stella had not spoken.
She was sitting on the other side of Augusta
Latrobe, looking alternately at her father and
his critic, but taking no part in the discussion.
She greatly wondered at Augusta's boldness,
and ardently wished that she would close her
mouth, or open it only to praise and speak poor
dear papa fair. And she ardently wished too,
that she could get a word alone with her
mother's favourite, her own dear friend albeit
an earth-worm on the lower levels ; though
what she had to say in confidence that her
father might not hear, she would have been
hard put to it to tell. Floating thoughts of
her mother, of Cyril, of freer breathing, of
some change of subject, came and went like
shadows through her mind ; but if it was not
to be, it was not, she said to herself with a sigh.
Yet how much she should have enjoyed a long,

sweet, quiet talk on everything, or on nothing,
with the sense of mental freedom and personal
sympathy in her kind companion !

Taking advantage of this slight change of
front from his work to herself, Augusta turned
rather abruptly to Stella. Like every one else
she saw how changed the poor girl was. No
longer the serenely bright, untroubled Star of
olden days, she was now careworn and anxious,
with the watchful eyes of a person either too
heavily taxed or ever in fear ; and her face had
a fevered look that made her beauty melancholy
to contemplate because so dangerously brightened
by inward excitement.

Are you well, dear Stella ? " asked the
widow abruptly, laying her hand on hers and
feeling the fever through her gloves.

I ? Oh, yes, quite ! " said Stella with that
hysterical little laugh which so pitifully belies
itself.

You do not look so ; and how hot your
hand is ! " said Augusta. '' What have you
been doing all the day ? "

I have been with papa in the studio,"
answered the girl.

Not out, this lovely day ? "

Stella glanced at her father.

*' No, not yet," she answered.

What have you been doing, dearie, that has
kept you so busy ? '" asked Augusta, still
inquisitorial.

I have been copying music," said Stella.

She did not add, as she might : " And I have
been called off this, the ostensible work of the
day, at least once in every ten minutes, to
examine the new touches on this square inch of
painting, to hear the sonorous consonance of
these two jingling rhymes, to give my criticism
which means praise here, to add my opinion
which means concurrence there. I have not
been left even to my dull mechanical occupation
in peace ; but I have been mentally tormented
as much as absorbed  absorbed as so much food,
so much electricity is absorbed by something
which can do no good, however much it maybe
bolstered up, and which simply beggars and
exhausts that by which it is supplied."

This was the real reason why "work" for
Mr. Branscombe was so profoundly destructive
to his associate. It was this perpetual drain,
this incessant going out, coupled with unrest,
which had killed that good Matilda and which
was now wasting and fevering Stella.

But copying music from morning till night
will kill you, child ! " said the widow with
friendly haste. *you ought to change your

occupation more than that. Have you read
your week's books yet ? "

This meant the books of the Reading Society
to which all Highwood belonged.'

No," said Stella.

You naughty girl ! and they were so
interesting ! I hope that you have copied that
pretty crewel pattern in the Lady Neiosjaper ?
we are all doing it," said the widow.

No ; I have not had time," answered Stella.

Stella ! you idle child ! What have you
been doing ? "

Working for papa," said Stella.

The widow gave a little impatient movement
with her pretty shoulders.

Well, but working for papa cannot mean
everything and all day long," she said, laughing
to hide her vexation. " I see what it is, I
shall have to come and look after you ! I cannot
have you grow idle. And one thing
certainly that you ought to do is to go and take
a nice long walk. It is a sin to stay in the
house such a day as this. Come with Tony
and me. The little scamp jumped into a puddle
and made himself too disreputable for your
drawing-room, so I left him at the Lodge. But
come with us, like a dear. It will do you good."

I do not know that papa can spare me,"

said Stella in a hesitating way, the colour
coming into her face.

Mr. Branscombe was still sitting in his bardic
attitude, chasing a poetic image round about
the corners of the ceiling, and as if absorbed in
thought. He started at this last mention of his
name, and brought his eyes down from the
ceiling to his daughter.

Yes, my dear ? You spoke ? Pardon me,
I did not hear what you said ; " he exclaimed as
if newly awakened and a little confused, but
always courteous and graceful.

I want Stella to go out for a walk  to
come with me and Tony," Augusta answered
instead of the girl. " She is looking so pale,
and as if she wanted a little change and fresh
air. You can spare her, cannot you, Mr. Branscombe
? She is afraid that you cannot, poor
dear!"

I can spare her, of course ! My desire could
not possibly stand in the way of hers," said Mr.
Branscombe With fine paternal chivalrousness
of feeling. " It is not a question of myself, but
of her own feelings. In her deep mourning
would she care to be seen outside the sacred
precincts of home ? "

If you think it unbecoming, papa, of course
not," said Stella.

Your own heart last decide that question,
my love," he answered. " Observance is valueless
when not spontaneously offered. Enforced
tribute is dross"'

But, Mr. Branscombe, a little walk can dono
harm ! " said Augusta, rather too warmly for
prudence. " If you do not like Stella to be
seen on the roads we will go by the fields
where we shall not meet a creature. She really
ought to go out ! Even a drive in a close
carriage would be better than nothing; but a
good brisk walk would be the best of all."

'' If you have the heart to go with Mrs.
Latrobe and take a good, brisk, happy walk, go
by all means, my love," said her father, answering
Augusta through estella. " Your dear
mother's sainted spirit looking down on you
will forgive the perhaps natural exuberance of
youth  its perhaps natural demand for recreation,
even at the most solemn seasons."

But, Mr. Branscombe," again remonstrated
Augusta; "a little walk in the fields  that is
not like pleasure taken in the world and
society."

"I say so! Stella can go if she will. I
give her the free exercise of her own judgment,"
repeated Mr. Branscombe. " As I say,
I want no tribute rendered to the memory of

my lost dear one that does not come from the
pure well of love undefiled. Go, my Stella 
forget your grief, your mourning, your mother
and me, in a brisk and happy walk with Mrs.
Latrobe. I do not wish to deprive you of your
pleasure, my love."

No, dear papa, I will not go," said Stella.
Perhaps, as you say, it would be unbecoming."

And the consequence of all this exaggeration
will be that you will get ill, Stella darling,
and then you will have made bad worse," said
Augusta hastily. " All this kind of thing is
really not reasonable ! "

"the Critic of Pure Eeason,' " said Mr.
Branscombe, with a polite sneer. "Neither
poetry of idea nor pathos of feeling  only the
crystalline clearness of cold, icy reason ! "

Just so," said Mrs. Latrobe with an exasperating
smile. " You could not have paid
me a higher compliment, Mr. Branscombe. So
let reason be your guide, dearest Stella, and
come out with me for a breath of fresh air."

No," said Stella, whose wish had now died
down ; "I see that papa is right. I will not
go to-day, thank you  some day, but not just
yet."

"My good child! guided with the finest
silken thread ! all heart and conscience ! " cried
Mr. Branscombe fondly.

And Stella, still under the spell of her early
training and the glamour of her filial superstition,
was satisfied and soothed ; better pleased
to have won her father's approbation than to
have had that little break in the melancholy
monotony of her life. And yet  how beautiful
it was out of doors !  and how delicious a swift
walk in the fields with that pleasant-tempered
Augusta Latrobe would have been !

CHAPTER lY.

THIN ICE.

Suddenly the fotiiit ran dry. The seed-time
was over and that of the harvest had set in.
That harvest was the praise of the public, such
as it was at Highwood, when the poems were
printed ready for distribution  the music composed
ready for recitation  the pictures framed
and varnished, and cards of invitation sent out
in travesty of the artist's " private view." Then
Mr. Branscombe was in the seventh heaven of
delight. That last infirmity of his nobleness
was fulfilled and he was the veritable Apollo
of his own Parnassus. For the present therefore,
what it pleased him to call his work was
done, and it was time that fruition should
follow upon labour.

But because he had made their yet young
mourning a reason why Stella had been kept so

close to work in copying and recording his
productions that she had not been allowed even
a walk in the lonely lanes or quiet fields, it
was necessary for him to find a reason now
why he should break so suddenly through the
seclusion which had been due to his vanity and
ascribed to his sorrow. And he found it in his
daughter's pallor and Mrs. Latrobe's suggestion.

'' You are looking a little pale, my child," he
said the day after Augusta's visit, speaking as
if this were his own discovery, and speaking
with his best air of fatherly tenderness. " I
must not have you fail, my love ! We must
break through our sad seclusion and go out
into the world a little more than we have done
of late. It will be a trial to me, but it is my
duty to you."

I should be sorry if you did anything
painful to yourself for my sake, dearest papa,"
said Stella gently.

He sighed.

You are all that is left to me ; I must take
care of you," he said. " I must be father and
mother both to my Household Star ! "

Dear papa ! how good you are ! " said Stella,
looking at him with grateful eyes.

Yes ; I am a good father to you and I was
a good husband to your dear mother. The

VOL. TI. F

artist has not killed the man in me ! " lie
answered, honestly believing what he said ; for
his vanity was so great, his selfishness so
blindly sincere, that he did faithfully hold himself
to be the sublime and all but perfect
creature for which he posed. And when he
had sacrificed his good Matilda, and was now
sacrificing his daughter, to this vanity, this
selfishness, he was to his own mind doing only
what was right and holy. Taking the help
of the lower creature in the production of such
works as his made their glory as well as his
own. They aided where he created, and they
were honoured by their association with his
genius. So much must be said for him. False
as he was all through  mere mask, wind-bag,
simulacrum as he was  he was unconsciously
false. He lived in a world of his own where
he was what he assumed to be. It would have
taken a miracle to have convinced him that he
was less than a genius and lower than a hero.
This world scarcely gives enough credit to the
transforming power of vanity  to the sincerity
of a man's own self-deception ; but Mr. Branscombe
was really and truly in a self-evolved
golden cloud through which he saw nothing as
it was and himself the most transformed of all.
Had he been self-condemned through consciousness

lie could not have imposed even on Stella
as tie did. It was the very sincerity of his
vanity which gave it vitality and impressiveness
and which hid his own humbug from
others as well as from himself.

And as you are so pale and wan, my love,"
he went on to say affectionately ; ''I will take
you for an airing and carry you among your
friends. So, go and make yourself ready. I
have ordered the carriage for three o'clock.
"We will make a little round, and I will take
our friends these cards. They will appreciate
the attention."

Very well, papa," said Stella without a
smile or sign of pleasure.

She dare not say so, but how much better
she would have liked a walk across the fields,
and those cards not distributed nor those visits
paid ! She scarcely knew herself in those latter
days, nor understood why she shrank with such
sensitive shame from the artistic publicity
which was her father's glory and until now
had been her own proud delight. What made
her dread where formerly she had rejoiced ? 
dislike what she had loved? She could not
shake off the feeling of desecration to her
mother's memory in all these poems and pictures,
these nocturnal and the like, which were

sent about among the neighbours like bellman's
verses. Yet how could papa's beautiful work
desecrate that dear memory ? And would papa
do anything whatever that was not inspired by
the most sublime and delicate feeling ?  papa,
who paid such enthusiastic respect to that beloved
memory as even to object to her having
fresh air and exercise ? It was impossible ; and
Stella knew that it was impossible.

Nevertheless, she wished that he had not
taken those silver-printed cards to distribute ;
and that they had simply gone only for a walk
together.

As it was impossible for her to say all this,
and as she had not even thought it out clearly
to herself, she did as she was bidden, and put
on her hat and cape. Then they got into the
little brougham where Mr. Branscombe had
placed a pile of cards already enclosed in envelopes
and directed. Before they set off he
drew up both windows save for the space of an
inch on his own side. Sitting so much in his
close hot studio had spoiled his taste for fresh
air, and he dreaded cold almost as much as if
he had been a dormouse. Sherrardine was the
first place to which they went. It was the
farthest off, and Mr. Branscombe took it first,
meaning to work round by Mrs. Morshead 

from whom the interdict had been perforce
taken since poor Mrs. Branscombe's death  and
then on to Derwent Lodge. The first two
stood in the social column of disagreeable necessity
; the last in that of unmixed pleasure. The
gentle worship of pretty Hortensia Lyon was
Finery Fred's present portion of delight in life.
Twenty years ago it would have been receiving-back
in earnest the love made in jest ; now he
found it in mock genius and sincere praise,
which did spite as well and was slightly less
dangerous.

All the Pennefathers were at home in the
garden ; so were all the dogs ; so were the two
Cowley boys. The noise and racket going on
when the close-shut black-painted brougham,
with its mourning liveries and its coal-black
horse, drove up was something deafening.
Every one was shouting at the top of his or
her voice ; and all were shouting at once. Some
of the dogs were barking in concert ; others
were bounding about the lawn and crashing
through the bushes in sympathy and participation.
Here was the click of a croquet-ball
against the mallet ; there the ping of a rifle fired
at a mark. It was Babel and Bedlam ; and Mr.
Branscombe covered his ears with his gloved
hands as he slightly groaned and shuddered.

Barbarians and savages ! " lie muttered, then
composed his handsome face to a melancholy
smile as one who would not sadden youthful
mirth by the intrusion of his own sorrow, yet
who could not quite forget the painful fact that
his heart was bleeding and that the merriment
of ordinary men was not for him.

And with this melancholy smile, lingering
like the touch of pale sunlight on his face, he
went slowly towards that noisy, laughing, uproarious
group gathered on the lawn.

Grlad to see you, Mr. Branscombe," cried
Mr. Pennefather, coming forward in his frank,
hearty way. *' Ah, Stella!  it is good to see
you again."

Dear Stella, this is nice ! " said Mrs. Penne-father,
kissing her.

They were people who called all the young
and even middle-aged of their acquaintance by
their Christian names. Well for dignity if
they did not hit on a diminutive or some queer
nickname which might or might not be pleasant
to the wearer !

Mrs. Pennefather, almost as young-looking
as her daughters, was one of the standing-wonders
of maternity in the county. Forty
years of age and the mother of seven children,
she had the step and figure of a girl and a face

to correspond. She wore neither stays nor cap,
nor any sign of maidenhood whatsoever save
the wedding-ring which marked her state. Her
tennis-costume was as short and youthful as
Grip's and Pip's ; her feet were as small and
dainty ; and she herself was as light and lissom.
It was not from her however, that the children
had inherited their beauty and strongly-marked
family likeness ; but from the father. She
herself was fair; and only little Nora, the
youngest, carried her impress. The rest were
all " father's children," as has been said ; inheriting
from Mr. Pennefather their dark eyes
and curly, jet black hair, their vivid colour and
bright, brisk, noisy ways ; while from both
parents, in equal proportions, came the good
digestion, good temper, cleanly living and kindness
of heart which made youth perennial in
the Pennefather household. They were people
who would never grow old in one sense, because
they would never grow indolent, self-indulgent,
sour-tempered nor envious.

The girls. Grip and Pip, dashed forward too ;
kissing Stella as soon as their mother had done
with her, and greeting her as if she had been
their dearest friend. They had this hospitable
way to callers ; seeming to wish to make their
guests free of all that Sherrardine contained,
themselves included.

How are you, dear Stella ? " they shouted
in their boatswains' voices. " So glad to see
you ! So jolly of you to come ! "

We thought you were never coming out
of your shell again, you jolly little snail ! " continued
Gip, while Pip stood by and emphasized
her sister's words, by running bursts of laughter.
' It is ages  heaps of ages since we saw you !
And how white you are ! What have you
been doing to yourself? You look as if you
wanted bucketfuls of salt water and oceans of
fresh air ! "

"Do I ? " said Stella, rubbing her cheeks
with a quivering little smile that was only the
other side of tears.

Do you ? why of course you do ! Mater,
did you ever see such a poor limp rag, such
a ghost as Stella Branscombe looks ? " shouted
Gip ; while Jemmy, who was suspected of being
hard hit in this direction, took quite a sentimental
expression on his bronzed face as he
said :

"Yes, Miss Stella, you look as if you had
been shut up in the dark for a twelvemonth.
You ought to get out more, I am sure. A good
long jolly cruise would do you no end of good ! "

Well, now we've got you here, we won't
let you go in a hurry," said Gip and Pip

together. " So come and sit down under the
verandah and we'll have a jolly little talk
together. Have you heard the news ? Mr.
Branscombe, have you heard the news ? "
shouted Pip, raising her voice.

No," returned Mr. Branscombe stiffly.

These Miss Pennefathers were really extremely
rude and objectionable young women,
without manners, reverence, respect or breeding
! Though glad to show them the last fine
product of his genius and not too dainty to
garner the coarse harvest of their praise, still, he
was out of place and ill at ease in this succursale
of Bedlam, and he wished his visit well over.

No ! You have not heard that Sandro
Kemp is going to be married ? Isn't that
fun ? " shouted Gip.

Is it ? " replied Mr. Branscombe with cold
disdain. " I confess I am unable to see either
the interest or the fun of the announcement."

Oh, I say ! " cried Gip and Pip. " It is
awful fun, Mr. Branscombe. Quite too good
a joke."

As ill-luck would have it, at that moment
Colonel Money penny appeared on the lawn.

Isn't it fun. Colonel Money penny ? " cried
the twins in a breath.

What ? " he asked.

Old Sandro Kemp's marriage," they answered.


The Coloners keen, irritable face flushed from
brow to chin.

Fun that he has found any one simple
enough to take him ? " he answered with contempt.
" I hardly think it will prove fun for
the woman, whoever she may be. Who is she ? "

He spoke in an odd voice and with a strained
manner, peevishly kicking one of the balls
which lay at his feet.

Well, we did think it was sour old flame,
Augusta Latrobe," said Gip  dense, pachydermatous,
insensitive Gip, who would not have
harmed a fly had she known what she was
about and who was now doing a friend whom
she liked as much damage as it was possible for
inconsiderateness and chatter to do. " But she
swears it isn't, so we don't know what to think.
We caught them on the road however, playing
at spoons if ever any one did. But Augusta
said no, it wasn't spoons at all, and that old
Kemp had only been telling her a secret ; and
Augusta don't tell lies. Still, it all looked
queer ; and who else can it be ? It can't be
any one else, and the old fellow doesn't often
go away. Colonel, who can it be ? "

"How the deuce should I know? Do you

think I am in the confidence of a fellow like
that artist Kemp, or care a button whom he
marries ? " cried Colonel Moneypenny savagely.
As Gip said afterwards : ' The old bear snapped
her nose off; and all for what, she would like
to know ? " " Mr. Kemp's affairs do not interest
me," he added stiffly, recovering his dignity if
not his temper.

Nor me," said Mr. Branscombe, also stiffly.

Oh, they do ns ! " shouted the Pennefathers
about five or six of them in a body. " Old
Kemp is a jolly old boy when he is in good
form ; but he was as sour as vinegar and across
as two sticks at our picnic. We thought
at the time it was because you had taken off Augusta
; but now we think it could not have been
that. Perhaps his lady-love had not written
to him, or perhaps after all it is Augusta ! "
said Gip  this last in a meditative voice.

Oh, Stella ! " said Pip, taking up the lost
thread, " I wish you could have been at our
picnic. It was such awful fun  it was just
awfully jolly all through ! George and I
changed hats and brooches, and even the
Cowley boys did not find us out. It was such
fun. And people came to me for Gip, and
went to Gip for me, and made no end of mulls
and mistakes."

And here they all laughed in chorus at the
exquisite humour of the remembrance.

When the last echoes of their mirth had died
away, Grip, who had a talent for blunders of
this kind, said so that Mr. Branscombe could
hear :

Stella, they say that you are not going to
be married just yet ? Is it true ? Poor Cyril !
What a sell for him ! I say, what a shame ! "

Stella looked with a scared face to her
elegant father who had turned his to this
unintentional mischief-maker  the very majesty
of indignation impressed on every feature.

We have our private reasons, Miss Penne-father,"
he said bitterly ; " reasons which perhaps
you will be good enough to believe even
if you do not understand."

Oh, reasons are rubbish ! " said that impudent
little minx, tossing her curly head. " It
is a horrid sell and a shame for poor old Cyril
all the same ; and I was in hopes it was not
true. But now you say it is, I am ten times
more sorry. What with Sandro Kemp marrying,
and not Augusta, after all his spooning her
so long, and poor old Cyril Ponsonby not
marrying at all, people are very queer ! "

"You are skating on thin ice. Grip," said
Jemmy in what he thought was a low and

diplomatic voice. It was heard all over the
lawn.

Thin ice ? no ! " said Gip in return, and in
perfect good faith. " Why thin ice, Jem ? "

I tell you you are," replied her brother ;
and Valentine Cowley, who had been watching;
the whole scene and taking it all in, said quietly
to back up Jem :

Shut up. Grip, while you can."

Stella saw by her father's face that he too,
like Valentine, had been watching and taking
it in. She turned pale and looked still more
frightened than before.

Oh, I see," said Grip, in answer to that
involuntary telltale face. " Poor Stella ! what
a shame ! "

"No," said Stella heroically; "papa knows
best."

Well, I don't know about that," said Grip
quite seriously. " I think if the Governor or
Mater put their fingers in my pie I should yell
out and tell them to mind their own business.
But they wouldn't ; they have too much sense.
And if they or any one did I don't think I
would take it as quietly as you do."

Shut up. Grip," again said Jemmy who was
the most enlightened of the group. The discipline
of a man-of-war had done something for

him, and this moony tenderness for Stella did
something more. " Don't yon see that you are
making a mull of things and fouling the rope ?
I tell you you are skating on thin ice."

Am I really ? Well I'm sure I don't want
to," said Grip in Pennefather syntax ; and with
that she dashed ois into a tirade against Mrs.
Morshead and her horrid temper, and how
sweet Augusta Lathe was, and how she,
George Pennefather, wished that some one
would take pity on the poor darling and carry
her clean away from that old dragon. Then
turning sharp round to Colonel Moneypenny
she cried out :

Why don't you. Colonel Moneypenny ?
You were always a kind of beau of hers, even
before that queer old spidery Professor came
on the field."

So good-hearted, bright-eyed George Penne-father
managed to do a great deal of practical
harm to two people whom she really liked, and
to set a stone rolling which would crush more
than one tender little plantation before it finally
settled at the bottom of the hill.

Soon after this Mr. Branscombe rose to take
his leave. He handed Mr. Pennefather a thick
packet of his " Threnody." There was one for
teach of his family, even including the young

Mr. Cowleyss and not omitting little Nora. He
wished the child always to remember her
sainted friend, he said with histrionic solemnity ;
and he was sure she would prize the gift.

The family made queer faces as they received
the cards which he solemnly distributed
each to each. They were bound by good
manners to look grave while nature impelled
them so dreadfully to laugh ! Between the two
they were in internal convulsions and outward
restraint ; and more than one nearly split that
thin skin of artificial decorum to let out a flood
of wicked merriment which would have spoiled
all. They managed however, to keep things
in trim till the brougham rolled away ; and then
they pulled up the planks and the waters
gushed out without restraint.

A most objectionable and detestable family,"
said Mr. Branscombe peevishly, as they went
through the gates. "I am thankful that is
done with ! We need not see them now for
another six months ! They are really scarcely
human, and more like so many Cherokee Indians
than like civilized English ladies and gentlemen.
They are too dreadful  really they are."

They are very noisy and indiscreet," answered
Stella, seeing that her father looked for
some reply. " But they do not mean to be

rude or disagreeable, and they do not know
half they say."

"To call them irresponsible idiots, my dear
Stella, does not mend matters very much," said
Mr. Branscombe. " People who do not know
what they say or do are either idiots or maniacs.
To which category of disordered brain do you
assign the family of the Pennefathers ? "

I did not quite mean that, papa," said
Stella with a nervous little laugh.

No ? Are you then following the example
of your friends and saying what you do not
mean ? " he asked unpleasantly.

For her answer Stella stole her hand into
his ; but after a short time Mr. Branscombe put
it away.

Your hand is hot, my love," he said coldly ;
and hot hands are unpleasant."

The visit to Mrs. Morshead was not much
less disagreeable to Mr. Branscombe than had
been that to the family at Sherrardine. The
rough old woman had a genuine horror of
Finery Fred's silky manners and artificial nobleness
; and spiky as she was to every one, taking
a savage pleasure in making herself like a coarse
rough bit of huckaback to all satin surfaces,
and of meeting affectation and pretentiousness
with absolute vulgarity, she was never so

coarse, so vulgar, as when she had to protest
against the affectations of the master of Eose
Hill.

The fellow made her quite ill," she used to
say with a sneer ; " and she was sick of his fine
airs ! "

To-day she was a Tartar, as usual. What he
asserted that she contradicted ; what he praised
that she condemned ; she would not now even
agree with him in politics, though they followed
the same leaders, but turned aside that she
might have the satisfaction of a fling at him
with her heavy old heel. She too noticed
Stella's pallor, and spoke of it in a manner that
made him see she thought it all due to himself ;
as indeed it was. Which did not however,
prevent her snapping at her daughter when
the Branscombes had gone and Augusta was
lamenting Stella's evident want of tone ; saying
in her harsh voice ;

Nonsense, Augusta ! Do you want the
creature to look like a milkmaid when her dear
mother is just dead ? You have no more feeling
than a cat, Augusta ! I declare you have not,
and not so much," added the old woman, looking
fondly at her sleeping Shah.

She too had hard work to receive the
Memorial Card with becoming suavity. She

VOL. II. G

had no desire to laugh outright, Hke those
naughty Pennefathers, but she did long to tell
that old fribble, as she mentally called handsome
Fred Branscombe, the family Apollo, what
washy stuff she thought his poetry was, and
what detestable taste it was, first to write it at
all, then to print it as it was printed, and finally
to distribute it among the neighbours. By a
wonderful exercise of self-control she said
nothing of all that was seething in her mind ;
but she received the card with unmistakable
ungraciousness, and laid it on the table without
looking at it.

"I have seen it. You gave one to my
daughter only yesterday," she said curtly.

For your little grandson," said Mr. Branscombe,
gracefully presenting her with another
copy.

This was more than the terrible old woman's
patience could bear.

Bless my heart and soul what can a baby
make of a thing like that ? " she cried. " What
can that child understand about spirits and
tombs and 'Cimmerian gloom, I wonder ! "

Still, mamma, we can keep it till he is old
enough," said Augusta, knowing how children
do prize things which they cannot understand
nor yet play with.

Solemn thoughts do no harm even to the
young," said Mr. Branscombe, gracefully as
well as mournfully.

Solemn fiddlestick ! " snapped Mrs. Mors-head.
" What has an infant like that to do
with solemn thoughts ? Leave those to old
people like you and me, Mr. Branscombe, and
let the young enjoy themselves while they can.
It is different with such as you and me, with
one foot in the grave as one may say, and old
enough to know better than spend our time in
folly."

She repeated the association of herself with
her elegant and well-preserved guest with
evident gusto, knowing how it would rasp him
to be classed with her, he having still pretensions
to be counted in his prime, and she being
an old creature who made herself older than she
really was by her carelessness of appearances,
and by that something, no one knew what,
which kept her to her chair for the most part,
though sometimes she might be seen walking
feebly and painfully in the garden.

"I hope not quite so old as that, dear
madam ! " said Mr. Branscombe with a sickly
smile. '' Not quite one foot in the grave yet."

He forgot his promise to Stella.

"As for that, having just lost your dear

wife I should think, Mr. Branscombe, the grave
would be the happiest place for you," said Mrs.
Morshead gravely. "If you are a Christian,
as you should be, you ought to rejoice at the
prospect of meeting her again in heaven as
soon as Grod pleases, and not think your death
a misfortune."

Ah ! just so, my dear madam ; just so ! "
he sighed rather than said. "By the way,
talking of marriages, the Misses Pennefather,
my dear Mrs. Latrobe," he continued, turning
abruptly to Augusta, " told me that our good
friend Mr. Kemp was about to enter the holy
state and that you were his confidante. Is it so ? "

For a moment the widow's customary self-control
deserted her. Not a pale pink flush
this time, but a crimson flood poured hotly over
the face.

Did they ? " she said as lightly as she could
speak. " What girls they are ! "

Mrs. Morshead looked at her sharply.

"What is this, Augusta? Sandy Kemp
going to be married, and you know all about
it ? What does all this mean ? "

"Nothing, mamma," said Augusta with a
smile that vainly tried to make itself look
natural. "It is only some nonsense of those
wild Pennefather girls,"

So ! Where does the mistake lie, my dear
Mrs. Latrobe ? " repeated Mr. Branscombe
slowly ; 'ein the report of our friend's marriage
at all ?  or in assertion that it is not to a fair
friend of mine, not a hundred miles from The
Laurels ? You must look after your fascinating-daughter,
Mrs. Morshead, if you do not want
to lose her for a second time ! " he continued
with graceful jocularity. " The Misses Penne-father
have sharp eyes, and they whispered a
thing or two to-day which sounded suspicious,
to say the least of it."

I am not to be held responsible for all
the nonsense that George and Pattie Penne-father
talk ! " said Augusta with cheerful indifference
very well put on.

I advise them not to talk nonsense of any one
belonging to me," said Mrs. Morshead grimly,
and more slowly than she generally spoke.
And as for my daughter marrying again, she
knows what I feel about that too well to dare
to do it. I look on a second marriage as no
marriage at all ; and I think the man or woman
who takes another partner with that poor dead
thing in the grave waiting for him in the otherworld,
is as bad as if he had two Vives or she
two husbands at once. No ; you have had your
turn, and you must keep to it ; so I say to all

people who marry. Alive or dead you are in
for it now, and you can't go back or make
another choice. And Sandro Kemp or any
other  my daughter or any man's daughter 
I say the same thing. A second marriage is :
I won't say the word clean out and an unmarried
girl like that Stella sitting there."

You are severe but sublime," said Mr.
Branscombe. " I quite agree with you. It is,
as you say, the loftiest morality, the purest
philosophy."

I said nothing half so fine," said Mrs.
Morshead sourly. " I only said I thought a
second marriage a sin. And though my
daughter may not be a lump of perfection all
through she is a good and modest young
woman, and wouldn't commit that sin. That's
all, Mr. Branscombe."

"I would not like to wager all my fortune
on the event," said Mr. Branscombe, still jocular
and elegant.

But the terrible old woman's temper could
bear no more, and she " flew," as the servants
called it, and left the master of Rose Hill with
not a metaphorical rag to his back.

Decidedly these two visits had not been
successful outlays of time and dignity; and
Mr. Branscombe repented of his condescension,

and was angry with Stella, himself and the
whole world, for the annoyance to which he
had been subjected. He was very peevish and
uncomfortable in the brougham, as he drove
from The Laurels to Derwent Lodge ; but
when once there he allowed himself to be
soothed by Hortensia's delicate appreciation, ashe
called her silly craze for himself, while
Stella was made happy by a long, long talk
with Eandolph, all about Cyril and his multiplicity
of virtues, his noble character, his fine
intellect, his sweet temper and his superiority
to ordinary human nature in general.

Meanwhile the stone set rolling by those
Miss Pennefathers was crashing at a rapid pace
down-hill at The Laurels, giving poor Augusta
yet more trouble in her life, where, as things
were and even when at their best, she had so
few sunny places and so many thorny tracts !

CHAPTER Y.

THE GATHERING OF THE STORM.

Sitting always at home, harvesting the gossip
of the place through the gleaning of her maid
and the scattered grain of chance visitors, it
was hard to say which was the more remarkable
 Mrs. Morshead's sharpness of penetration
or her boldness of imagination. Grive her but
the corner of a brick and she would build the
whole temple; show her but one little bone
and she would construct the entire skeleton,
and clothe it with fur or feathers as positively
as if she had met the creature leaping in the
woods or had seen it fly across the sky. She
was the centre of all the gossip that floated
through Highwood as it floats through every
small community ; and had it not been for her
the social strand would not have been strewed

with half that cruel wreckage of repute for
which the little place was famous.

And sitting thus at home, ever pondering
and piecing, exaggerating and deducing, while
she knitted her shawls and set the heels of her
coarse black woollen stockings, she went back
again and again on that deep blush which had
come into Augusta's face at the mention of
Sandro Kemp's probable marriage, and asked
herself till she was weary : What did it mean ?
Was. there any nonsense  nonsense ? worse than
that !  between them ? Was Augusta not only
thinking of making a fool of herself for the
second time, but meditating what Mrs. Mors-head
believed to be an actual and positive sin ?
If she were, then her mother knew what she
would do. She would cut off her and her little
son with the traditional shilling, and she would
leave the whole of her fortune to those three
Humane Societies for which she had most sympathy.
Emphatically and literally she would
take the children's bread and cast it to the
dogs. And in the disordered mirror of her
own crooked conscience it seemed to her that
this would be a holy and a righteous thing to do.

But she would not be rash. She would not
act without good reason and full knowledge.
So much sense of justice and fear of evil held

her hand. She would watch and see, and if
convinced then she would strike. Second marriages
were to her, as we know, primal follies
translated into sins. She thought them virtually
bigamous and held that they should be
made illegal, and punished as severely as if
the dead and eternally departed were only in
the next street and might come back any day
to claim their own again. She thought marriage
altogether a mistake  her husband had
found it a torture  and rivalled Hortensia
Lyon herself in her contempt for girls who
wanted to be wives. And she despised maternity
as martyrdom doing no good to any one.
Giving life to a human being brought no joy
to the giver, according to her, and conferred
no boon on the recipient. She excused the first
because of ignorance, but she held the second
to be an offence against wisdom if not decency
It would have taken a very brilliant offer of
marriage indeed to have reconciled her to
Augusta's wifehood even in the first instance ;
for Mrs. Morshead, of The Laurels, was a
woman whose social ambition was wholly satisfied
and whose desires did not go beyond her
possessions. She had all that she cared to have
local position, a good income, a nice house
and fine garden  and she could leave what she

had where she chose. So that her daughter
had no need to marry, either in the first
instance or the second. But if she, the mother,
had condoned the folly of that first  after a
struggle and when the bitter retribution had
come  she would never forgive the sin of the
second. Had a man of birth and standing
offered for Augusta she would have asked him
sarcastically : What did her daughter want
more than she had and would have ? When
it came to an artist fellow like Sandy Kemp 
a man without a penny and whose stake in the
county was represented by zero  she was
simply furious, and on all sides alike. For if
it were not true, it was an insult for which
those who had offered it should be made to
suffer ; and if it were true, then would she discard
for ever that shameful girl of hers, and
teach her how to disgrace herself again in even
a worse manner than she had already.

Still, she would watch and see. But watching
and seeing with Mrs. Morshead did not include
the patience of silence, the quiet following up
of " stalking." It meant perpetual probing and
pricking, perpetual hurrying from place to place
in search of those cock-astride eggs which the
Pennefather girls and Mr. Branscombe had said
were hatching.

Quite suddenly, without the slightest warning
and breaking a dead silence between them,
she would ask : " When did you last see your
dear friend, Sandy Kemp, the sign-painter,
Augusta ? " or : " When is your friend Sandy
going to bring his wife home, Augusta ? She
cannot be much of a thing to marry him, I
should say ; but whatever she is, I suppose you
will be her bosom-friend, seeing that you are
the chosen confidante of that fellow."

One day she said, in the same sudden way,
and with a curious mixture of passion and
grimness :

Answer me truly, Augusta  and look at
me when you speak  has that pauper, Sandy
Kemp, had the impudence to make love to you ?
He must have done so for all these disgraceful
reports to have got about. If I had not known
better, unfortunately, I should have said you
were no child of mine, Augusta. A young
woman like you, with a dear little son to
educate and think of, and after having made
such a shameful marriage as you did, to be left
a beggar on the face of the earth but for me,
to be carrying on an intrigue with a fellow like
that Sandy Kemp ! It is enough to make your
poor father turn in his grave ; and it makes
me inclined to disown you as you sit there, so

wooden and indifferent that I long to shake you
to see if I could not shake some life into you !
If it were not for your little boy I would disinherit
you to-night. I declare I would ! "

You are making yourself very uncomfortable,
mamma, all for nothing," Augusta answered
tranquilly ; as she had already answered
the same thing in substance, twenty times at
the least. ' The Pennefather girls are such
wild creatures they never think of what they
say or do. Else I am sure they would not
have said anything to give me pain or do me
harm, if they had thought of it. But they just
dash out with anything that comes into their
heads, not remembering that every one is not
o good-natured and free from spite as their
own heedless selves."

You think you are getting out of your
scrape very cleverly," said Mrs. Morshead ; " but
you do not get over me so easily as that,
Augusta ! I know what I know, and I see
what I see ; and I am only biding my time 
that I can assure you of."

Very well, mamma," she answered quietly.
'' If you are determined to see what does not
exist, and to make yourself and me unhappy
over a few foolish words which mean absolutely
nothing, I cannot help it. I can do no differently

from what I have done, for I have done
nothing wrong  and there I must leave it."

And there you will just not leave it," said
Mrs. Morshead angrily. " If you think you are
going scot-free like this, you are very much
mistaken. I mean to search the thing to the
bottom, whatever comes of it. And if I find 
what I hope I shall not and fear I shall  then
let you and that boy of yours look out! Do
you imagine for one single instant that I am
going to harbour you here in my house that
you may carry on a secret intrigue with Mr.
Sandro Kemp ? No ! not if I know it ! not if
I have to die for it, Augusta ! "

By which it may be seen how fully Mr.
Branscombe had revenged himself on that unlucky
Critic of Pure Eeason who would not say
that his poetry was sublime, and who wanted
to detach Stella from her high-toned duties and
lead her into the dissipation and indelicacy of
a walk across the fields during the second
month of her mourning.

Mr. Branscombe was not the only person
Who, having a sore feeling against Augusta
Latrobe, was not unwilling to do her an ill-turn.
That luckless chatter about the artist's
problematical confidence of love for another and
shrewdly suspected love-making on his account,

had raised up for the poor young widow even
a more formidable enemy than the shallow-natured
master of Rose Hill ; and Colonel
Moneypenny, cried and crimped through
jealousy, came up to The Laurels to add his
little vial of wrath to those already broken
over her head. This sweet-tempered and
reasonable creature's virtue of patience and
self-control, fate had determined should not rust
for want of sufficient exercise !

If Mrs. Morshead could be said to have a
favourite in this wicked world of men, it was
Colonel Money penny  in whom she admired
all but his name ; and that she forgave. There
was much about him that exactly suited her
tastes ; and she thought if all men were more
like him, things would go a little better than
they did now. He was clean, well-set up and
smooth shaven, save for his military moustache 
which became him as a man and was the sign of
his estate. He wore his grizzled hair cut as
close as a brush, not hanging over his ears like
that artist fellow Sandy Kemp, nor elaborately
curled and trimmed like that old fop Mr.
Branscombe. He was always well dressed, asa
gentleman in the country should be ; his
gloves were clean ; his boots without a speck
of mud on them ; and he never brought in with

him a trace of the weather out of doors, whether
it were windy, rainy, dusty, or what not. How
he managed to look always so perfectly clean
and unruffled no one could find out ; but he
did ; and Mrs. Morshead counted it to him for
virtue.

Then, he was bitter in thought and sharp in
speech ; a cynic and a pessimist, equalling herself
in universal disdain for all humanity and
superior to herself in the method of setting
forth his views. They held too, the same
political opinions, founded on the short and
easy way of permanent opposition. Whoever
was in office was more or less a scoundrel ; and
every measure that was passed was one nail the
more in the coffin of national prosperity and
honour. Belief in good reasons, whereof they
did not see the whole bulk, was a stretch of
faith which they derided as credulity ; but they
gave each man in power credit for every evil
motive that could disgrace a citizen or discredit
a politician. They were independent
thinkers, they said, when reminded that they
called themselves Liberals ; and they held themselves
exempt from all allegiance to the party
to which they said they belonged. In fact they
called themselves Liberals that they might
righteously vilify the Conservatives, yet not

be compelled to hold with any section of a
party composed of so many different shades as
is that of Liberalism. It gave them a wider
field for universal opposition than else they
would have had and opened endless avenues
for proving themselves superior to their titular
comrades in judgment, patriotism, and sometimes
in true liberality. In a word they were
the two Pessimists, the two Irreconcilable of
Highwood. And as Mrs. Morshead always
agreed with the Colonel and the Colonel always
sent everything to the deuce, they were in perfect
accord ; and Colonel Moneypenny had more
than once been heard to say that he did not see
what people had against Mrs. Morshead  he
had always found her perfectly easy to get on
with and a remarkably intelligent old woman.
He knew better; but Mrs. Morshead did as
well as anything else for a cause of contradiction
to the majority. And to defend one so
universally dreaded and disliked gave him an
air of generosity which gratified himself if it
convinced no one else.

But if he found her easy to get on with
when both put their horses' heads together and
charged against all before them, he had not
yet tried her with making love to her daughter.
And by the look of things he was not likely

VOL. IT. H

to try her very soon in that direction. Stung
by jealousy, piqued in his self-love, his pride
of position outraged by the intrusion of a
mere artist on reserved ground where he had
set up his own fine military flag, feeling himself
insulted in that any one could possibly couple
the name of the woman whom secretly he loved
with that of any other man  and that other
Sandro Kemp  Colonel Moneypenny believed
that he had driven Augusta Latrobe out of his
heart for ever, and burnt the last traces of her
image in the fire of his unforgiving wrath.
He was sure that now he both bitterly despised
and actively hated her ; and he was also sure
that he had never really loved her. It had
been a mere passing fancy born of compassion
more than anything else. He knew that she
had a hard life with that old wolf, her mother
the woman whom he defended with his bitter
smile and sarcastic allusions when her sins
against the world had come more prominently
to the front than usual, and had done more
than ordinary harm. He knew that the poor
thing, the old wolf daughter, had not a penny-piece
of her own and that her mother made
her life of dependence more humiliating than
public pauperism would have been. And he
had pitied her. As a man and a gentleman he

could do no less. Yes ; lie had certainly pitied
her ; and had she been wise he might have been
foolish. But his guardian angel had joined
hands with her bad genius to protect lira ; and
** quern Deus vult verdure " was the text on
which had been written the theme of her
destruction and his own salvation.

When therefore he decided on o;oino; to Mrs.
Morshead to add his vial to those already
broken over that peccant head, no ruth for
coming pain through his cruelty disturbed his
mind, burning as it was with the egoist's
flaming fire of humiliated vanity. He had been
wounded in those secret recesses of a man's pride
where wounds fester and never heal ; and
Augusta Latrobe had to learn to her cost what
it was to slight a man who might have been
more than a friend, and whom now, by her
imprudence, she had made into something worse
than a foe.

So, full of bitter thoughts and harsh intent,
his anger high, his pride in arms, he called at
The Laurels  and found both Mrs. Morshead
and her daughter at home.

Almost as soon as he entered Augusta knew
that a bad quarter of an hour was before her.
She saw it in the fiery eyes which just glanced
at her for an instant, then turned themselves

away almost with a jerk as if they had seen
what was unpleasant ;  she saw it in the restless
lips which seemed as if they could scarcely
contain till the fitting moment that flood of
bitterness which was working in his soul, longing
to pour itself out and overwhelm her with
shame ;  she felt it in the very touch of his
hand, not limp and nerveless with indifference,
but taking hers with the hasty touch and sharp
withdrawal of an irritation that was almost as
uncontrollable as a flame of fire ;  yes, she saw
it all ; and, with that quiet strength which washer
characteristic, she prepared to meet with
wisdom what she could not avert by courage
and to bend under the storm which she could
not disperse by resistance.

For a time the conversation flowed tranquilly
over safe places. True, it was always full of
acidity and condemnation ; but it did no one
any harm if Mrs. Morshead fell foul of the
Prime Minister and the Government, and
Colonel Money penny followed suit with objurgations
against the Leader of the Opposition 
if one prescribed the guillotine for Grambetta
and the other a lunatic asylum for the Count de
Chambord  and so on through the arid wastes
of general politics. The waters might be
poisoned from source to outfall, but they did

no harm to living creature ; and Augusta bided
ber time, knowing full well that this was only
the flourish of appearances and that the real
meaning of her old admirer's visit had to come.

And in time it did come ; as she knew it
would.

When the Colonel had delivered himself of
his last political sentiment, which was something
to the effect that the Turks should be
sent out of Europe and the Russian Empire
dismembered, he turned sharply round to Mrs.
Latrobe  his fiery eyes ablaze, his thin lips
lifted at the corners and cried into the very
embodiment of scorn  saying suddenly :

I hear that I have to congratulate you, Mrs.
Latrobe ; rather I should say I have to congratulate
Mr. Kemp."

Mrs. Morshead sat bolt upright in her chair,
glaring savagely from under her heavy eyebrows.
The name of Sandro Kemp, never
pleasant to her ears, had by now become the
very match to the powder-store, and her anger,
never difficult to rouse, blazed out heaven-high
at the mention of this man whom she hated yet
was forced to respect.

Yes ? " answered Augusta with the most
benign air of tranquil indifference. " On what ? "

Oh ! that is too strong ! " said Colonel

Moneypenny in a voice which made the widov,
almost start, it was so roughened by passion, so-strangled
and choked by bitterness. " A lady
who is engaged to a man asking quietly on
what her fiance has to be congratulated  that
is drawing with rather too fine a line, Mrs.
Latrobe ! "

Perhaps it would be if there was any line
to draw at all," she answered. " But in this-case
your picture is in the clouds. I was not
aware till now that I was engaged to Mr.
Kemp."

Who has put this lie about ? " asked Mrs
Morshead harshly. " Who is your authority,.
Colonel Moneypenny, for such a disgraceful
statement ? "

Oh ! the whole place is talking of it," he
answered carelessly. "It is not one person
more than another. It is every one."

One of the Highwood romances ? " said.
Augusta with that kind of good-humour which
is held to presuppose indifference. "What
foolish things people say here ! How far better
it would be if they had something of public
interest to occupy them  then they would leave-their
neighbours alone."

"It would be better if the neighbours gave
no cause for talk," said the Colonel significantly.

Cause does not come into the question," the
young widow answered smiling. " As for cause
of gossip on my account  with Mr. Kemp or
any other  there is not so much as would
warrant the faintest whisper. It is just one
of those queer things which happen here  a
report got up no one knows how or why."

You speak with strange confidence, Mrs.
Latrobe," said the Colonel with a sneer.

Strange ? " she repeated laughing. " Well,
really, Colonel Moneypenny, I think I ought to
know best in such a matter ! If I am not confident
who should be ? "

But I want to know who has set this thing
afloat," said Mrs. Morshead, sticking to her
point. " Where did you first hear it. Colonel
Moneypenny ? "

Where first ? " He seemed to ponder.
Well, you see, Mrs. Morshead, I have heard
it so often I am not prepared to say where first.
I am quite unable to remember. It might have
been at Sherrardine. I will not say so positively,
but it might have been. I half think, indeed,
that it was."

Then I shall do one of two things," said
Mrs. Morshead ; " either bring those Penne-fathers
to book and make them give up their
authority, or forbid Mr. Kemp my house. I

will not have sncli things said of any daughter
of mine. She has only me to look to for protection
and support, and I will get to the
bottom of this. I swear I will."

Yes, madam, do," said Colonel Moneypenny
with emphasis and a cruel look to Augusta.

If you can," said Augusta. " But that will
just be the difficulty. How can you get to the
foundation of things which do not exist ? "

It is as well to try," said the Colonel dryly.

You may try to make ropes out of sea-sand,
but I fancy you would lose your time," said
Augusta with a smile. " There is nothing hereto
find out. I can say no more."

Then I have your authority for saying that
nothing of a tender nature "  with what a
sneer he said these words !  " exists between
you and Mr. Kemp, have I ? " asked the
Colonel, addressing Augusta.

Certainly you have," she answered, raising
her clear and candid eyes into his face. They
were almost too clear, too candid, too demonstratively
innocent to please him. The merest
trifle of waver and shyness would have seemed
more natural. And why were her cheeks so
deeply dyed ?  she whose warmest blush was
in general rather a reflection than a blush
which had mounted of itself.

'' And you may add from me that Sandro
Kemp never enters these doors again ! " said
Mrs. Morshead viciously.

Again Colonel Money penny looked at the
young widow. How would she take this last
sentence ? Would it be a blow to her ? a
wound ? a shock ? He looked and saw absolutely
nothing. The fair face remained as still
as if it had been a mask. Not a line, not a
curve shifted its place ; not the faintest quiver
of the eyelid, of the lip, marked the least ruffle
of the feelings. Only her colour suddenly
paled from that feverish brightness to dead
pure white ; and then the blood rushed back
in a burning stream which defied concealment.
She was brave truly, but she was not what she
assumed to be indifferent.

It is the best thing you can do for your
daughter," said Colonel Moneypenny, still
watching her. " In her position it is necessary
to be even more careful than with other ladies.
I am glad now that I have been the means of
enabling you to act according to your usual
vigorous judgment, Mrs. Morshead. As you
say, if you do [not wish the report to take root
it must be checked in the beginning."

It shall be," said Mrs. Morshead, she also
watching her daughter.

On this came a profound silence, during
which the mother and the man, who from a
lover had become an enemy, both watched the
young woman as she sat there searching quietly
for something in her workbox. Then, as if the
prolonged silence struck on her ears as meaning
their waiting her response, she looked up
with eyes which were still almost too clear and
fixed and candid, and said in a quite natural
but somewhat monotonous voice :

Do as you think best, mamma. It is alla
matter of indifference to me."

She is impenetrable ! " said the Colonel to
himself. " Old Nick himself could not fathom
her ! But in any case I have put a spoke in
that fellow's wheel and spoiled his fun for a
time ! It shall never be said that Sandro
Kemp and I were rivals for any woman's
favour, and that he stole a march on me where
I was fancying myself secure ! "

CHAPTER YI.

THE LArXCHING OF THE BOLT.

Write exactly as I tell you, Augusta, else it
will be the worse for you."

The terrible old woman was sitting stiff,
upright and square for action in the dull green
chair which was specially hers. Her widow's
cap was well forward on her head ; the sure
sign with her of a rather worse state of temper
than was even usual, and, as we know, that
state was never good. Her black Shetland
shawl was folded closely round her shoulders,
her black silk mittens came lower than ever
over her fingers. By her side slept her favourite
cat on his luxurious crimson velvet cushion ; in
her hand she held one of those eternal coarse
black woollen stockings, to knit which, with
alternations of shawls, for the poor, made the
sole occupation of her life.

Augusta sat by the writing-table in the bay
of the window. Paper and ink were before
her and the pen was in her hand. She was
writing to Sandro Kemp, according to the
dictation of her mother, a letter which was to
end all the gossip about her and him, because
ending their acquaintance not to speak of their
friendship.

It was a hard task ; but she knew that she
had nothing for it but to obey. Her mother
represented the tyranny of circumstances and
the irresistible power of fate ; and Augusta
was no stronger than Prometheus had been in
his day, than Eurydice had been in hers.

Are you ready, Augusta ? " then said Mrs.
Morshead, watching her daughter as she quietly
arranged her materials.

Yes,"'mamma," she answered in a perfectly
unmoved voice.

Not that her quiet acquiescence contented
the mother any more than the candour of her
eyes had contented Colonel Moneypenny. It
was almost too complete  too well done. Had
there been a little sign of feeling, or annoyance,
even of opposition, both would have felt more
satisfied. They would then, at least, have had
the pleasure of victory ; whereas now the
walls had fallen down at the first blast of the

trumpet ; and when the fighting blood is up
and the blow struck, it gives a tremendous
sense of disappointment and checked energies
to strike against a bunch of feathers which
neither resist nor return.

Say then, ' Sir,' " began Mrs. Morshead,
"Don't you put 'Dear Sir:  do you hear,
Augusta ? Say simply ' Sir : '  * Sir : I have
to request that you will henceforth discontinue
your visits to my mother and myself.' Put
my mother ' too, else the impudent fellow will
be coming here to ask me for an explanation
on pretence that I am not you ; ' to my mother
and myself,' " she repeated. " ' And that you
will not presume '  have you put ' presume,'
Augusta ? "

Yes, mamma," she answered, her face
flooded with that same kind of deep flush
which had been on it yesterday, but else as
still as a painted doll's.

' That you will not presume to address me
when we next meet,' " continued the old woman.
'"I refuse beforehand to give any explanation
of the step which self-respect compels me to
take. Augusta Latrobe.' Now, Augusta, have
you written it all out as I have dictated ? " she
asked very sharply. " Word for word exactly
as I said ? "

Yes, mamma," lier daughter answered.

Let me see it," said Mrs. Morshead. " You
are too ' slippery for me, Augusta ; I cannot
trust you."

You have no right to say that, mamma,"
-cried her daughter, firing up with a strange
feeling of relief at being able to fire up legitimately
about something, no matter what.
Where have you found me slippery and
untrustworthy ? It is too bad of you to say
such a thing to me ! "

Don't speak to me like that," cried Mrs.
Morshead angrily ; "I will not submit to bespoken
to by my own child in that insolent
way ! You are slippery ; and so I tell you ;
and you are not to be trusted, for all your
appearance of obedience. And for all I know,
if I did not look sharp after you, you would
put in a private note to that Sandy Kemp of
yours, and tell him you were made to write
like this, and that you were his affectionate
sweetheart all through. It would not be the
first time that you had deceived me ; nor are
you the only young gipsy who has pretended
one thing to her parents and done the exact
contrary to her lover ! "

Oh, mamma, how can you spoil yourself
and make every one unhappy about you by

this dreadful and unjust suspicion' cried
Augusta in passionate indignation.

Her philosophy was scattered to the winds ;
and her patience broke down under the combined
strain of this heavy task and undeserved
insult. She could have accomplished that bitter
act of renunciation, even by such a method, had
her mother left her in peace for the rest. But
together the two things were beyond her, and
she lost her self-restraint as one loses one's
cloak in a sudden storm.

If I make every one so unhappy about me,
Augusta, you and your boy had better find
another home where you will be happier," said
Mrs. Morshead slowly.

Rash words rose to the young widow's lips,
like flames leaping under battened hatches.
Her calm, clear eyes shone with an angry light
which Mrs. Morshead had seen in them only
once before ;  and that was on a certain morning
when they had had a serious quarrel over
some perfectly insignificant trifle  the morning
of that day in the afternoon of which Augusta
had come back from a walk in the fields to say
that she had accepted Mr. Latrobe, and would
be married to him in six weeks from that date.
Steer before nor since had the same look come
into her face, the same light shone and flamed

in her eyes, Tintil now. She stood, her back
to the writing-table where she had just been
sitting, transcribing this cruel letter to the
man who loved her and whom she loved though
she would not permit herself confession. One
hand was on the table, the other was on the
frill and brooch at her throat. Her heart beat
as if it would break through the bars which
held it in ; her lips, which had been so tightly
set, half unclosed themselves as if to speak ; her
bright eyes flashed and flamed ;  when the
voice of her little son came on her ears as he
ran past the window on the lawn. She saw
him as he ran, chasing a peacock-butterfly
which was always just going to be caught and
never was  his fair hair flying in the wind
and his happy little face all aglow with health
and childish joy. In one swift moment came
visions of his misery and confinement in stifling
lodgings, while she went out on her dull, ill-paid
tasks whereby to get hi in daily bread.
She measured his loss in health, in development,
in education, in social standing, in future ease
and sufficiency, as the price paid for her ungoverned
passion, her rash irrevocable words.
She saw it as if it had been a picture flashed
by the sunlight before her eyes ; and perhaps
his death as the end of all, because she would
not bear her cross with patience.

Her hand tightened on the table and her
slender fingers seemed to dig themselves into
her throat. Her eyes dropped to the floor and
her common-sense, her reasonableness, her self-control,
her power of cheerful self-surrender to
the inevitable came down on her dangerous
mood like the door of an iron cage where wild
beasts are kept. She must yield again as so
often before, where fighting would do no good
but only make things worse for her and ruinous
for her boy. Yet, not for herself. Had she
been alone she would have flung up all  home,
station, inheritance  all, as she had done once
before. But now she was not alone. She had
her boy ; and she owed herself first to him.

You know, mamma," she said as quietly as
she could speak ; "I do sincerely try to please
you, and you know that I obey you."

"You obey me, yes, in a way," said Mrs.
Morshead, looking at her from under her eyebrows
; " but it is in a way I do not like,
Augusta. You always seem to have something*
behindhand, as it were. You give nothing
but the bare bones of obedience. You do as I
tell you because you cannot help yourself, but
you do not do it sincerely  you do not do it
with your mind. It is only lip-service when
all is said and done. You keep your real

YOL. II. I

thoughts to yourself, and I don't like that. I
would rather you came out with things straight
to my face, than think one thing and do
another."

If I do as you wish, it is scarcely fair to
accuse my thoughts," said Augusta. " And I
do not think you would like it if I were to
oppose you," she added.

"Then I tell you I would," said Mrs. Mors-head
angrily. " How dare you say I would
not when I say I would ? You are a most
undutiful and contradictious girl, Augusta. I
will not have you give me the lie like this ! "

And Augusta resisted the temptation of that
logical demonstration lying ready-made to her
hand.

At least believe," she said quietly, " that I
do really wish to please you, mamma, and that
if I fail it is not for want of trying."

The old woman saw her advantage. The foil
was lowered and her opponent had placed herself
at her mercy. No passion was so strong
with Mrs. Morshead as the love of power ; and
she had none of that generosity which accepts
surrender magnanimously and forbears to press
the fallen.

Yes," she answered grimly ; "I will give
you credit for so much common sense, Augusta.

You know when you are well off and which
side your head is buttered. And it is perhaps
just as well that you know too when to give in
A little more of your ingratitude and impertinence,
and there would have been an end to
everything, I can assure you. You might have
gone where you would for that dear child's next
velvet suit. He would not have got it from
me. I am not used to be spoken to in that
manner ; and what is more, I do not intend to
get used to it."

I am sorry if I offended you, mamma," said
Augusta, as quietly as she had spoken just a
moment since, seating herself again at the table
to address the envelope which was to contain
that cruel and insulting letter.

It is all very well to o-et out of things in that
cool way," said Mrs. Morshead. '' You are cool,
I must say that for you, Augusta ! Any other
girl would have been down on her knees to her
mother after she had insulted her as you have just
insulted me. But you toss your head and sav
 I am sorry,' as indifferently as if you had
been speaking to the cat. And then you think
you have done all you ought and all that need
be done."

Well, mamma, I will go down on my knees
and say I am very sorry," said her daughter

pleasantly, going up to her mother and placing
herself on her knees, while she caressingly took
the disengaged hand lying at that moment idly
on the arm of the easy chair.

But Mrs. Morshead drew it away with a jerk.
Don't be silly, Augusta ! " she said snappishly.
" G-et off your knees this instant, I tell
you, and send that impudent fellow his letter."

Augusta obeyed, and did not even sigh. Her
mother had truly the power to rouse her temper
sweet and equable as this was; but she could
not wound her heart. Affections which are
constantly chilled, repelled and refused, end at
last by dying down to the roots, like vines
which are too much pruned. The roots are
there and the vine is not dead in its entirety ;
but all the grace of foliage and sweetness of
fruitage have been cut away, at least for the
immediate present and this year's vintage.

She went back to the table to direct the
envelope. She placed in it the letter  resisting
the temptation that came upon her with almost
overwhelming power  of slipping in a word
already written : " This is not my own." But
of what use to refrain from that which would
kill all lingering feeling of tenderness and so
destroy for ever this pleasant dream, this streak
of moonlight shining like silver in the dark ?

It would be a sharp pain to him ; and he would
despise and hate her. She would be sorry that
he should ; yet, why not ? Their friendship
could not bring them happiness, but the contrary.
It kept alive delusive and unwise hopes
in him ; it stood in the way of her peace at
home ; and if in the way of her peace, then in
that of her boy's best interests. No. It was
hard ; but it was the best thing to do. The note
must go as her mother had dictated and she
had transcribed, without a word of explanation
or disclaimer. She was so much the poorer,
but her boy's interests were just so much the
more assured.

Suddenly she was recalled to the fact that
she had not written the envelope by her mother's
harsh voice.

When you have done staring at that piece
of paper, Augusta, as if you had never seen an
envelope before, or were looking through it and
the table and everything into the centre of the
earth, perhaps you will write that fellow's
name so that Page can read it. He shall take
it this afternoon, when he goes that way for
dahlias."

Her mother's voice was harsh indeed. It
made the young widow start as if a pistol had
been fired at her back.

"I was dreaming," she said; "and had
forgotten all about Mr. Kemp."

Oh I had you ? " returned Mrs. Morshead
dryly. " Glad to hear it, Augusta. But it
would be more to the purpose perhaps if you
would condescend to remember him just enough
to direct that letter and let it go with Page this,
afternoon."

Without another word Augusta took her
pen, wrote the address in her large flowing-hand,
fastened down the fly of the envelope,
then held the letter to her mother.

Shall I ring the bell, mamma, and send it
out to Page ? " she said.

No," said Mrs. Morshead shortly. " I will
see my own servants myself."

'I must go and call Tony, then," said
Augusta. "It is getting time for liisj reading-lesson."


She felt suffocated and strangled, as if in
another moment she must cry out or burst into
tears. It took all her self-control to keep down
the hysterical passion that strove so hard to get
the upper hand of reason and good sense. A
breath of fresh air, a loving caress from her
little son would do her good. She wanted to
have the child in her arms, to look into his
sweet face, to see his bright eyes and hear

this merry voice. She wanted to be able to
hold him to her heart and whisper to him
fondly : " It is all for you, my boy. Tell me
that you love me  I who love you so well ! "

As she stood up to go something almost as
dark as a physical shadow crossed the old
woman's face. She looked up sharply with her
small fierce eyes set so deeply under those thick
overhanging brows which gave her such a
sinister expression.

"You will please to stay where you are,
Augusta," she said in her hard imperative way.
I do not want you to have a private talk with
Page, and all sorts of tender messages sent to
that fellow, and perhaps the letter not sent at
all. No ; sit down again I say and let that
poor child have an extra hour's play this beautiful
day. The way you hound him to his
lessons is quite inhuman. Do you want him to
be an infant phenomenon at seven and an idiot
at seventeen ? That is what you will make of
him if you force him as you do."

Augusta turned one swift glance on her
mother, but she said no more. The yoke was
on her neck and she had to bend to it ; light or
heavy she had in good truth to bend to it and
make the best of the weary load she was doomed
to draw !

Something in her face touched the old
woman's shallow spring of pity. After all the
girl had done as she was bidden without complaint
; and though there was something about
her that her mother could neither fathom nor
understand  something that she felt she did not
get hold of  still, she had no open cause to suspect
or find fault with her. She had been a
very undutiful and wicked creature to marry
that penniless Professor, and then to let him
die so that she had to come back here with that
tiresome boy of hers  but what was done could
not be undone, and there was no good in harking
back over the past, thought Mrs. Morshead,
with a sudden and rare accession of good sense.
She did nothing now that she ought not ; and
on the whole  despite that inner something
which escaped her, the mother, that spiritual
freedom and selfhood which she would not give
up but which she only held and did not fight
for  she was as good as could be expected after
four years of marriage with such a man as that
Professor. And thinking all this, and watching
her daughter's patient face, the organ which
stood for a heart with Mrs. Morshead relented,
and she said brusquely :

Gro and call that little monkey of yours, if
you like, Augusta. I dare say Page is at his

dinner. Perhaps you do not mean to deceive
me.

"When will you believe, mamma, that 1
never deceive you ? " she asked quietly. " I do
not think I could teach my child his prayers if
I were living in an atmosphere of deception."

"Well, child, perhaps you could not," said
her mother. " Still I don't know quite all about
everything," she added, going back to her
normal attitude of suspicion as if she had suddenly
broken a spring. "All this miss-mash
-about Sandy Kemp must have had some foundation."


It has none, mamma," answered Augusta
firmly. " It has sprung only from girlish nonsense.
Mr. Branscombe and Colonel Money-penny
have made up the whole seriousness of
the thing. It is no other person's doing."

There ! say no more about it, for goodness'
sake," said Mrs. Morshead sharply. " I am sick
to death of that impudent fellow's name. You
are always talking of him, Augusta. It is quite
tiresome  I declare it is. And go and find
that boy of yours. Is he to grow up a dunce
for your neglect ? At his age he ought to be at
school and in Latin. And he cannot read words
of four letters. The child is a regular dunce I
I am ashamed to call him my grandson ! "

I do verily believe mamma is getting softening
of the brain and going out of lier mind,"
thought Augusta to herself as she went into the
garden for her boy. " Her temper never was so
persistently bad as it is now. There used to be
gleams of amiability in poor papa's time ; but
now her love of contradiction and her suspicion
are really more like insanity than anything
else."

Just so ; but then nothing is so like insanity
as that kind of ill-temper which puts itself in
opposition to all the world ; and the man who
thinks no one in the right but himself is, for all
the practical purposes of moral life, as insane as
if he had crowned himself with straw and called
himself Emperor in Bedlam.

All the same I will take care that Page does
leave this note and that Augusta does not see
him," said Mrs. Morshead to herself, ringing the
bell sharply. " She does as I tell her, I know,
and she seems to be all fair and above-board,
but there is something  I do not know what it
is  but I feel and know that it is there. She
gives in to me because she cannot help herself;
but she only obeys  she does not really
submit."

And so far the terrible old woman was right.

Sandro had just finished his luncheon when

Mrs. Prinsep brought a letter from The Laurels.
He recognized the handwriting at once, and a
boyish thrill of pleasure flushed his face and
brightened his eyes as he took the note in his
hands and felt almost as if he had heard the
soft voice of the fair woman speak to him  as if
he had seen her dear eyes look at him.

She is a darling ! " he said half aloud. 'the
one perfect woman in the world ! "

Then he opened the letter and read what
Augusta had written. He could not make it
out. The words ran into each other so that he
could scarcely see them even as mere symbols ;
while the sense was so hopelessly confused he
could not understand the meaning when he
made out the words. It was as if he had been
suddenly struck blind, or as if his mind had
given way. An awful terror of madness, of
imbecility, came over him, and made him tremble
like a frightened girl. He read words which
had no sense in them  was she mad or he ?
Then he laid the letter down and thought over
its meaning, trying to make it clear to himself.
That had he done to offend her ? The last time
they had met they had been good friends  quite
good friends, and almost something more. It
could not have been then. Yet if not then,
when was it ? The whole thing was a tangle ,

a maze, a huge distortion wherein he saw
nothing clear nor straight. But through it all
burnt the one ineffaceable line  " that you will
not presume to address me when next we meet."
No explanations could soften that command 
no tears wash out those hard words. The sweet
and tender friendship which had been such a
solace to him was at an end ; and henceforth he
was not even to speak to her when he met her.
All hope was over. What had life left for him ?

He felt that it had nothing left. No fame, no
work, no sun, no joy. The woman whom he
loved and whose love he had had it ever in his
hope to gain when the clouds should have lifted
from his path  that woman had taken herself
from him even in the simple way of friendship.
His star was set ; his day was over. Why
should he drag through the weary hours of the
long, unbroken night ?

Scarcely knowing what he did, and only conscious
of the desire to escape he neither knew
nor cared where, he crushed the note in his
hand and rang the bell for his landlady.

Mrs. Prinsep," he said in a constrained
voice ; " I am going up to London to-day. Can
you pack my bag ? "

Yes, sir," she answered ; but she looked at
him curiously as she spoke.

Something had gone amiss, she did not know
what, only it was something very greatly
amiss ; and it came on the receipt of that letter
from The Laurels. He had smiled when she
had taken it in ; there was not much smiling left
in him now !

Good patience ! " she thought as she went
upstairs to pack his bag ; "he has surely never
proposed to Mrs. Latrobe and she given him
back a No ! But it looks like it, poor dear.
How could she have had the heart ? Why our
Mr. Kemp is miles better than that old Latrobe
she was so mad about. Well ! I would not give
much for her taste," was her last commentary
as she got her lodger's things together and made
him ready for his sudden journey.

CHAPTER VIL

THE LAST APPEAL.

It might be Stella's duty to obey her father's
will, but it was not Cyril Ponsonby's to heed
Mr. Branscombe's whim. The angle at which
each stood made all the difference in their point
of view ; and their point of view determined
their principles of action. It was a duel between
the two men such as has been many times in
the world before and will be many times again
a duel between the old and the young, inherited
duty and acquired love, the father who
demanded and the lover who desired  with the
poor girl's heart as the battle-ground on which
they fought  her life the prize for which they
.strove.

While saying to himself, generously enough,
that his Love only more and more proved the
.sweet grace of her character by the sacrifice

wliicli she lead made, Cp'il was none the less
determined to do his utmost to convince her
that this sacrifice was all wrong, and that her
highest duty lay in keeping her word and
marrying him before he left for India. This
was only natural. The man who would give
up his love at the first summons to surrender
by another  be that other father or rival 
would not have much to give up ; and Cyril
did love Stella with all the fervour of a young-man's
passion, all the devotion of a faithful
heart. "What else then could he do but try
to prove to her that this noble sense of filial
obedience, for which he honoured her, was alla
mistake and wholly wrong and that her
highest virtue was to give herself to him?
This was the logic of love if not of reason ;
but love was master of the situation, and reason
was pressed into his service as his henchman.

By the tone of her letters, sadder and sadder,
more hopeless and more pathetic in their resignation
to inevitable sorrow, as the days went
by, Cyril saw that the loosening of the engagement,
which had begun at Mrs. Branscombe's
death, was ever increasing, while the father's
hold was growing stronger and his grip
tighter. If he, Cyril, could not do something
to counteract this morbid influence and draw

his Love once more close to himself she would
slip from him altogether ; and when he thought
of this, he thought also of death.

He resolved then to go down to Highwood
to face, as a man should, the difficulties which
beset him ;  to try once more to persuade Stella
to follow his fortune and forsake her father's ;
to give herself to love and cast filial duty to
the winds. It was his last chance, for in a few
weeks he must set sail to India ; and when
once so far away  if he could do nothing now
he could do less than nothing there. This was
emphatically his last chance, his Last Appeal.

It was a sunless, dull and sultry afternoon.
The lurid clouds, heavily charged with coming
storm, hung low in the sky. Not a bird sang
in the bushes, not a cricket chirped in the
grass ; the very bees flew heavily from flower
to flower and the butterflies and dragon-flies
rested motionless on the flowers and grey stonewalls.
The pimpernels in the fields and the
gezanias in the gardens were shut ; and the
scarlet nasturtiums and geraniums glowed with
so much electric fire as almost to dazzle those
who looked at them steadily. A storm was
evidently at hand; and all nature felt its
presence and suffered because of it.

Without halting even to see Randolph Mac-kenzie,

Cyril drove straight from the railway
station to the Lodge gates of Eose Hill. There
was no glad familiarity of the accepted son of
the house in his coming to-day, as when he
made his unconventional entrance on that
beaming, bright young morning in May ; no
impatience of happy love that could not wait
for the day but must seek to distance time by
giving him chase in the early dawn ; no certainty
of a reception  as joyous as his own
breathless incoming ; no hope of radiant love
to meet and glorify his own. There were only
pale fear and stern resolve, that sinking of the
heart which forebodes disaster and that setting
of the will which, while it foresees the pain
courts the struggle. He came to-day less as
the acknowledged lover than the desperate foeman
 no inheritor of joy entering gladly on
his own but an exile breaking his bond of
excommunication and returning to the home
whence he had been banished  that home for
revisiting which he should be again discarded
under maybe a still more severe sentence. Or,
should he hold his own triumphantly and be
victorious over fate and circumstances ?

This was the question of the hour ; and the
moment of its answer had come.

Surely the stars in their courses fought for

VOL. II.

him and the first omen presaged all the rest I
He had tormented himself all the way down as
to his chance of being able to speak to Stella
alone. If her father chose to forbid, how could
he prevent her. obedience ? But now all those
fears were set at rest, for there was Stella right
before him, walking slowly towards the house
from the gates. She had been down to the
Lodge to see the gatekeeper's little child who
was ill, and now was. going back to that
desolate home which of late had become so
much more like a prison than a home. She
was thinking sadly of her sweet mother and her
banished lover, her shattered hopes and that
poor papa who demanded so much from her
and who was sometimes so strangely cold, even
while he held her so closely and depended
on her so heavily. And thinking all this she
did not hear the swift step behind her, nor
know who was coming till Cyril lightly touched
her shoulder and said : " My Love ! My Love ! "
She started and cried out ; but the next
moment her arms were round him as his were
round her, and her face was lifted to his bending
down to meet hers ; while the only sound
of welcome was a sob half of joy and half of
pain, which told how she had suffered in his
absence. Nor could Cyril speak. Something

that was perilously near to tears blurred his
vision and cut short his words. He could only
hold her in his arms  to his heart  as something
lost and now found again, something
tender and dear and precious which was safe
for him only so long as he held it closely
clasped. As she looked at him and once more
met those dear faithful eyes and saw the face
which represented to her all the nobleness of
manhood, all the security of life and splendour
of love, she forgot the dull present and the dim
future ; she put aside the pain that she had
felt  the anguish which she foresaw  and her
sob lost itself in one full happy smile, as she
said in a voice that was as the very gift of
her soul  ' My Cyril! Oh, once more my
Cyril!"

It was all told and known ; and now he felt
safe. What needless torment he had given
himself!  how foolishly he had lacerated his
own heart ! She had never wavered. His
future was as safe as his past had been sure.
She loved him and she would not forsake him.
He had done well to come and meet that
ghastly enemy of sorrow and despair  of subtle
severance and vague forebodings. She could
not resist him face to face. She was his and
he was hers ; and the little cloud that had risen

in the night of absence was swept away by the
glad sunlight of actual presence.

Come to the summer-house, Stella. We
can speak better there, and I have much to
say to you, my darling," said Cyril ; and Stella,
with a sudden half-frightened look to the house,
said a little anxiously :

Yes, for half an hour, Cyril ; I must not
stay longer."

For half an hour then," he replied, putting-his
arm round her waist ; and thus in the old
loving way, as if nothing had come between
their love and their happiness, the two went
down the side-path to the summer-house, and
reached it just as the first growl of thunder
broke from the sky and the heavy drops of rain
began to fall.

At first they heeded neither the weather nor
the altered order of things at home. They
were together and alone ; and that was joy
enough for the moment. Then the smoke of
that glad incense of love and happiness began
to clear away  the first momentary excitement
subsided  and they came slowly back to things
as they were and to the sorrowful truths which
were as spectres awaiting them. Each saw
how pale and wan and hollow-eyed the other
had become ; each missed that sense of security.

that sense of joy, which had marked the early
stages of their love. They were like ghosts
rising from the tomb and looking at each other
across the moonlit space where the graves were
lying thick and the dead loves of life were
buried. There was no reality even here, and
no certainty  save of sorrow. But they loved
each other. So much was sure. Whatever the
future held  they loved each other.

"You do not ask me why I have comedown,"
Cyril began, when that silent scrutiny
and acknowledgment had grown somewhat
embarrassing.

I was too glad to see you to think of anything
else," she answered softly.

I am Q-oino' to India in about three weeks'
time now," he said. " And I have come to ask
you to go with me."

She turned away her head  she could not
meet those yearning, faithful eyes  that handsome,
loving face, bending down to look into
hers. Her hands were in his, closely, tightly
clasped. She would not take them away ; but
she could not look into his face !

How can I ? " she sighed.

Why should you not ? " he returned.

How can I leave poor papa ? He would die
if I were to leave him."

And what shall I do, Stella ! Perhaps
worse tliaii die ! If you are a daughter, remember
also that you arc a wife  my wife in
the sight of God ; and you owe me as much
duty as you owe your father  and more love."

Cyril spoke with a gravity and intensity
which Stella had never heard in him before.
It was as if he had suddenly ceased to be a boy
and become a strong, mature and self-respecting
man. He was less the lover pleading for a
grace than the husband, as he called himself,,
claiming his rights. Till now she had seen
him only boyishly earnest in his suit, boyishly
radiant in his success, boyishly despairing in
his defeat ; but now he was a man of equal
strength and firmness with her father, and she
felt instinctively that things had come into a
new phase and that the moment was all the
graver because of her lover's changed morale.

You know that I love you," she said,,
turning to him with the instinct of a caress.

I know that you do," he answered tenderly ;.
'' but though you love me, you are letting
yourself be divided from me  perhaps for ever ;.
and you are giving me more anguish than I
once thought I could have borne and lived
under ! "

I am not being divided from you ; excepting

for a little while," she answered, woman-like
preaching peace where there was no peace and
forbearing to look at facts as they were. " It
is only while my poor, darling mother's death
is so fresh  while papa misses her so much 
that I ask you to put off the marriage ;  that
is not breaking with you for ever, Cyril ! "

And when will your father make up his
mind to let you go ? " he asked. ' You know
that every day you are slipping farther and
farther away from me, because every day you
become more necessary to him. When will
you find the courage to leave him and come
out to me if you have not got it now ? "

He is too good and kind to break my
heart," she said. " Surely, some time of his
own accord he will let me go."

Never ! " said Cyril firmly. " Of his own
accord, Stella  never ! If you have not the
courage to insist on it now and to come, he
will never, never let you go ! "

' Indeed you misjudge him, Cyril ! You do,
darling ! He is broken now by poor mamma's
death ; but he will become more reconciled as
time goes on ; and then we can be married
without paining him as it would now if I were
to leave him. Think what it would be to him
to lose wife and daughter both in a few months !

And lie so loving and so sensitive  so dependent
on home love and care for his happiness
! "

All this means simply that you love your
father letter than you love me, and that you
are ready to sacrifice me to him," said Cyril
with quiet sternness. " We will call things
by their right names, Stella. It is a struggle
of love, in which I am the weaker and go to
the wall."

Not that," she answered, the tears swelling
into her eyes. " I love my father dearly, as
you know, and reverence and admire him as I
have been taught all my life to do  as mamma
reverenced and admired him  but I love you
too, Cyril ; you know that I do. It is not a
struggle of love, but it is a matter of conscience
and duty. Cannot you see the difference ?
Cannot you, Cyril ? "

It was his turn now to look away. His face
was pale and set; his eyes were fixed and
mournful ; his heart was sore and his pride was
wounded. She did then of her own free will
prefer her father to him ; and it was not coercion
so much as voluntary resignation.

The thunder roared and shook the little
building where they were sheltered ; the lightning
flashed and streamed in fiery tongues

and flaming sheets ; the rain poured as if the
windows of heaven had been opened for the
second time and the fury of the deluge had
been let loose on the earth. But neither Cyril
nar Stella saw what was going on in the world
outside. The storm of grief and despair, of
passion, of perplexity, of love warring with
duty, which raged within their hearts was
greater than that of the elements without ; and
the thunder and the lightning and the rain
which tore and flashed and fell, were but the
natural accompaniments of the passions which
shook them to the soul and the anguish which
made them desolate.

'' Cannot you see the difference, Cyril ? '' she
said again, her hand stealing into his. '' Do
you doubt that I love you ? "

You love me ? " he said with a strong effort,
How harsh and changed his voice was 1 She
would not have known it for his had they been
in the dark. " Yes, I believe that you do, to a
certain extent. But you love your father better,
and prefer his convenience to my happiness''

If I could leave any one with him to take
care of him and make him happy, I would not
hesitate for a moment," said Stella with sudden
passion. ' It is not that I love him better  
you know that it is not that, Cyril ; it is only

because he is my father, and it is my duty
Oh, you will break my heart if you look like
that  if you believe that I do not love you ! "

Her girlish bashfulness, her pride of maidenhood,
her shamefaced reticence  all were gone
swept away by the storm of passion as the
tender little buds and delicate flowers were
broken and destroyed beneath the heavy deluge
of rain. She flung her arms round him and
carried his head to her bosom.

Cyril, say that you believe me," she said,,
her lips, for the first time unasked, pressed ta
his. " My own, my Love, say that you do not
doubt me."

He felt his advantage, and he used it.

If you cannot come with me  if you think
it your duty to stay for a little while longer
with your father  at least make things sure.
Marry mo before I go, if even you stay behind,
"and come out afterwards."

He spoke without any outward sign of emotion
; still with that strange absence of boyish
pleading and with that stranger weight and
gravity of a mature man.

"With papa's consent  yes ! -yes !  gladly ! "
said Stella. " Will that satisfy you, Cyril ?
then indeed I will ! "

With your father's consent or without it ? "

*/

he said.

She shrank back. The flood-gates which had
been lifted beoan oTaduallv to close down on
the turbulence that had been let loose for a few
moments. The pride of her maidenhood, the
reticence and shamefacedness of her girlish
modesty, the purity of her truth, the wholeness
of her duty, all sent back the rushing flood
about her heart and cleared her eyes of their
mist of passion.

Without x>apa"s consent I could not," she
said faltering. '* I could neither openly disobey
him nor live a life of deception. You
yourself would not respect me, Cyril, if I
could*'

'' Ah ! it is just as I thought'' he said with
sudden bitterness. " Great heavens, do women
know how much they torture the men who love
them ! All of no use !  all to no good ! I am
distanced and cut off! Xo, Stella, this is not
love ! It is preference  friendship  fancy  but
not love !  not the love I have for you. Ask
anything of me'' he continued, his passion rising*
as hers calmed ; " ask my very life, and I would
give it you ! You could not ask anything of
me, Stella, that I would refuse. Nothing in the
whole wide world ! "

"If I asked you to do something that I
thought dishonourable and wrong, you would

not do that, Cyril ! " lie answered, half
frightened, half trying to sooth him.

Yes, I would ! " he cried. " I would go to
perdition for you. I would give you my very
soul ! "

Just then a blinding flash of lightning seemed
to set the whole place in a blaze, and the
thunder crashed right above the frail little
tenement where they were sitting. Stella was
wise and sensible enough, but she was impressionable,
and as apt for superstitious fancies as
any other girl of her kind and age.

'' Hush, Cyril ! this is blasphemy," she cried,
clinging to him in terror. ' Remember God
hears us, and sees us, and reads our hearts.
You offend God when you talk like this."

Her terrified voice and clinging touch, her
pale, scared face and spiritual distress, broke
down all the new force and manly strength
which had come into him. He covered his face
with his hands and burst into those terrible
tears which more than anything else in the
world agonize the woman who loves and
humiliate the man who is loved.

Cyril, do not cry ! " she said in a low, still,
shocked voice. " You are breaking my heart.
I do not know you like this. Cyril, look up.
Do not let yourself give way like this. Oh,

darling, let us pray to God to give us strength
to do what is right and what is His will!
There is no happiness for us if we do what is
wrong and what we know to be wrong."

But poor Cyril was in no state to be soothed.
He had to fight out the fight by himself and to
brace himself to bear the inevitable, as he felt
best for himself. Pure and honest for his own
part, he could not tempt Stella to do what she
felt to be wrong. If he could have changed
her heart at this moment, and for her own
higher morality have substituted one weaker,
lower and more yielding to love, he would ; but
he could not tempt her into what she felt to
be immoral and dishonourable. He had to
recognize and accept her virtue. He was foot to
foot with facts ; and he was cast. He must give
up all his hope, his pride, his desire. Stella
had elected to stand by her father and she
had laid her conscience as the pledge. He
must abide by her decision ; but it was a bitter
award, and he felt as if death would have been
a more merciful decree.

"You shall not do what you think wrong,
-for me," he said at last, his bloodless lips
quivering. '' I would rather have you pure in
your own conscience than that you should do
what you think wrong for my sake. If you

feel it right, I will give you up. It is like
parting with my life to say this ; but, if you
feel it right, I must."

Not give me up, Cyril !  only wait till
papa is more reconciled to his loss. This is not
giving me up, darling ! " she said anxiously.

It is the beginning of the end," he returned.
 If I leave England now, I shall never see you
again."

Would you wish not to see me again ?
Would you rather give me up entirely than
keep me for a short time in hope ? " asked Stella
in a low voice.

He caught her eagerly to his heart and
smoothed back the hair from her face.

My Love ! my Love ! " he said with infinite
tenderness, with loving reverence. " I would
wait for you to the end of my life, if you would
come to me then ! Give you up, Stella ? I
give you up? Never, my darling, never. If
we are separated, it is by your will, not mine.
You are mine to the end of my life !  my
own, my Love ! I could never give you up,
never cease to love you, never possibly love
another ! "

The storm had passed and the sun had come
out. That last tremendous outbreak had been
the last expression of its fury. The rain-drops

still glittered on the grass and trees, but the
birds began to sing in the woods, the flowers
raised their drooping heads, the butterflies and
iridescent flies came out from their leafy
shelters. The storm had passed indeed ; but
outside this summer-house the plot of Mary-lilies
which Stella had planted with her own
hands was a broken mass of tangled wreck, and
the tender buds of all the delicate flowers were
beaten into the ground  never to rise again,
never to bloom, never to gladden the air with
their sweetness nor to receive the sun's rays
into their fragrant hearts.

Come and see papa," then said Stella softly.
The storm has gone now. Come and talk to
him."

"It is of no use," said Cyril sadly. " I
understand him better than you do."

Then you understand how sweet and noble
he is," said Stella, speaking from the force of
old impressions and life-long training, and
forgetting for the instant that painful little
passage-alarms  presage of so much worse to
come  which had taken place between them
some days ago.

Cyril turned away. Suffering had enlightened
him on Mr. Branscombe's real claim to the
possession of those qualities for which his wife's

deliberate devotion and his daughter s simplicity
of belief had given him credit.

I will go and see him. of course," he said,
after a pause. ' I would not like him to think
that I had been here in secret and was ashamed
or afraid to face him."

Oh, Cyril, how good you are !" cried Stella.

She looked up into his face, enthusiasm, love,
devotion in her own. Her large dilated eyes
were dark with tenderness ; her sweet fresh lips
were a little parted ; her whole heart was
throbbing with passionate and high-strung
admiration. For the instant she forgot that
she had any cause for sorrow. She remembered
only that she loved  and that her gladness lay
in the grandeur of her beloved.

Cyril could not answer her. Her enthusiasm
was born of his heart-break  her praise came
because of his submission to the terms of his
despair. He could not return it even for
gratitude.

Good and great ! " he echoed bitterly.
My Stella, say rather how weak and miserable
! One more kiss," he then said, turning to
her with less of the feverishness of love than
the melancholy resignation of death. " I asked
you to be my wife in this summer-house. Do
you remember, Stella ? I watched your window

from it the first time I came down after we
were engaged. Give me now our last partings
kiss  perhaps the last we shall ever have  our
very last on earth ! "

No, not our last," she said with strange
confidence, borne up she knew not how over
the weakness and surging sorrow of the
moment. " Our last for the immediate present
but we have a future, Cyril, and a glorious
one. We have a future of true love, of mutual
respect and of happiness."

VOL. IL

CHAPTER Vlll.

THE FINAL ANSWER.

My child ! where have you been during this
terrible storm ? " said Mr. Branscombe, when
Stella, with Cyril following close behind, went
into her father's studio to report herself and
present her lover. " I have been in the most
acute mental anguish on your account  the
most heart-breaking anxiety."

For a gentleman who had been in this great
anxiety, as he said, Mr. Branscombe looked
smooth and unruffled enough. Also, he had not
been idle ; for he had painted in a large piece
of Hortensia's gown  the folds perhaps a little
fanciful, seeing that like most talented amateurs
he worked by the light of imagination only,
disdaining the dull prose of a model. However
that might be, he had evidently diligently
occupied himself during his daughter's absence,
and had thrown off his mental distress by means

of the eccentric curves and impossible cross-shadows
which represented his ideas of drapery.

I was under shelter, papa," said Stella in a
strange voice.

Now that she had come into the actual
presence of her father  the father not of her
imagination but of her every-day life  the
exalted confidence of her late mood suddenly
cooled and slackened.

Where ? " he asked, not looking up.

'' In the summer-house," she said. " The
storm overtook Cyril and me as we came up the
drive from the Lodge."

Cyril ? Cyril ? What Cyril ? " asked Mr.
Branscombe with a vague air, as if searching in
his memory for the image that should be
attached to that name.

Cyril Ponsonby, sir ; Stella's affianced husband,"
said Cyril, coming, forward and speaking
in a calm, clear, level voice.

Oh, Cyril Ponsonby, is it ! Gad, my dear
fellow, I had forgotten you ! " said Mr. Branscombe
with careless amiability. " And what in
heaven's name has brought you out here on such
a day ! "

He spoke as if Cyril had come in from next
door ; and as if he had been here only yesterday
and might be here again tomorrow.

I came to see you and Stella," said Cyril.

Vastly obliging ! " said Mr. Branscombe-
with bis best-bred smile, tempered with melancholy
as his eye caught the band of crape on
the arm of his velvet coat and he remembered
all the circumstances in which he stood.

In the first flush of surprise he had remembered
only the one fact  that Cyril wanted tO'
take Stella from him ; with the determination, asa
rider, that she should not go.

I am going to India in less than three weeks
now," began Cjail ; " and I have come to ask
Stella to marry and come with me."

Mr. Branscombe put his head on one side the
better to examine the effect of his latest bit of
cross-hatching.

I thought all that was arranged and done
with," he said quietly. " When I had last the
pleasure of seeing you I remember we threshed
out that question fully  threshed it out to the
last fibre. It was agreed then, I think, that
Stella would not leave me  at least for the first
year of her mourning ; that she would not
commit the indelicacy of treading on the heels
of her mother's funeral as a bride given up to
Circe pleasures. Why reopen a closed book,
my young friend ? Do you not think we have
enough to do with things present and to come

without going back on those which are sealed
and past ? "

"I do not hold this matter to be sealed and
past," said Cyril. "|I was willing to concede
something to your grief at the sudden shock of
jour loss, but I did not give up my claims. I
waived them for the immediate moment ; but I
hold to them as absolute."

I think you gave them up so far as any
definition of time, any express limitation of
suspended rights, went," returned Mr. Branscombe
smoothly. " It was agreed, if I remember
aright  expressly agreed  that Stella should
not marry this year ; therefore that she could
not go out to India with you in September.
Indeed, I imagine you would scarcely prevail on
her to desert me in the heartless manner proposed
by you. Such a dutiful and pious child
as she could hardly be guilty of an act wherein
indecency would be equalled only by irreligion."


I think too, that Stella remembers a little
what is due to me and her promise," said Cyril,
always speaking in that calm, clear, level voice
which betrays the consciousness of struggle even
more than the loud tones of expressed excitement
and, with the consciousness of struggle,
the presence of hidden force.

Duty to parents comes first in a good girls
catalogue of virtues," said Mr. Branscombe.

And faithfulness to a promise  fidelity to a
husband  are also virtues which hold rank in
her mind," Cyril answered back.

When she has the husband, yes," said Mr.
Branscombe with a slightly contemptuous smile.
"A foolish boy and girl engagement can scarcely
claim the appellation which includes the sacred
tie of marriage."

A foolish boy and girl engagement ? I dO'
not understand you, sir," said Cyril hastily.

No ? Yet I speak plainly, do I not ? I 
technical terms, do I ? "

Mr. Branscombe asked this question with the
simplest air of transparent candour ; as if sincerely
wishing to be answered and instructed.

Not technical terms but unintelligible one
words which do not apply to the case in
hand," said Cyril.

No ? You are now unintelligible to me, my
dear fellow," he answered, smiling. " Explain
yourself."

"I do not think I need, Mr. Branscombe.
"When you can call a solemn engagement, like
Stella's and mine  an engagement sanctioned
by both you and her dear mother an engagement
which this very month, almost this very

day, was to have been fulfilled by our marriage
when you can sneer at this as a foolish boy
and girl affair, then I think I have the right to
ask you for your meaning on the ground that
you are unintelligible'

Oh, that is where the crux lies ! " said Mr.
Branscombe. " I am sorry if I have offended
your susceptibilities. I am always sorry to
wound the feelings of any one."

Dear papa ! " murmured Stella, still in the
region of faith as she was.

Still, I must keep to my nomenclature," he
continued. " In spite of all you may say I
maintain the folly, the unfitness and the desirability
of this affair."

Unfitness ? desirability ? " said Cyril,
almost as if in a dream.

Frankly speaking, my dear fellow," Mr.
Branscombe went on to say with imperturbable
calm ; "you are not the kind of husband I would
have chosen for Stella. Her mother, sainted
soul ! liked you  you are, I suppose, the kind of
thing women do like  and as I was always the
attentive interpreter of my good Matilda's
wishes, as also I thought that the mother had
perhaps more right to regulate the daughter's
life than had even the father, I gave in to her
desire and sanctioned the engagement because

she had endorsed it. But now when, by the
mysterious decree of Providence, she has been
removed from this earthly sphere and I am left
sole guardian of my child, I must use my own
discretion, act according to my own ideas, and
regulate her life as I think best for her
happiness here and hereafter. We cannot be
guided by the counsels of the dead. Though I
am sorry to distress you and to annoy my child,
I must speak plainly ; and, plainly, I do not
approve of this engagement."

Mr. Branscombe ! "  " Papa ! " said the two
young people in a breath.

"And if Stella is the dutiful daughter I
believe her to be," said Mr. Branscombe in conclusion,
not heeding those two passionate ejaculations
; " she will give it up now at once, herein
this room and in my hearing."

Papa ! papa ! I cannot ! " cried poor Stella,
instinctively turning to Cyril.

The young man put his arm round her and
held her to him in the attitude of protection.

"She will not leave me," he said a little
triumphantly.

Mr. Branscombe laid down his paint-brush
nd palette, as he had done once before. He
made a few steps nearer to the young people as
they stood before him, and saw Paul and Virginia

clinging together ia the last embrace. Ashe
came nearer he held out his arms.

Must they be held out to empty space ? " he
said, his mellow voice trembling. " Must I go
down to the grave in the evening of my life a
lonely and deserted old man ?  without wife or
child to cheer my darkened day, to guide my
faltering steps ? You, my child, my idolized
child  my Stella  my Star  you to leave me
for a stranger ?  to desert me with such ungrateful
haste ? It will not be for long. I
shall not keep her for many months, young-man
! Cannot she tarry with me for these few
weeks till my weary eyes are sealed in death,
and my lifeless form is laid in the silent grave
beside her dear, dead mother ? Must I be the
modern Lear, pleading in vain ? "

Dear papa ! I cannot bear to hear you talk
like this," said Stella, disengaging herself from
her lover but not giving herself to her father 
standing for a brief moment as if undecided
between the two.

"You look well and vigorous, sir, by no
means near the tragic end you depict so forcibly,"
said Cyril unwisely and hastily.

His eyes were not blinded by long years of
habit and tender teaching. He heard the hollow
ring of the base metal so adroitly passed off for

gold, and saw through the flimsy cheat which
poor Stella accepted so simply for reality.

Are you so eager, young man ? " asked Mr.
Branscombe with pathetic dignity dashed with
a not unnatural, not unmanly, indignation.
Are you so weary of this little spell of waiting
and so anxious to have me safely housed in that
grave which gives not back its prey when once
engulfed, that you may enter in such indecent
haste on your own pleasures ? "

No, Cyril did not mean that, papa ! " Stella
said in agony. " You did not, Cyril, did you ?
Say that you did not ! "

"I did not wish you dead, sir; and I congratulate
you on your prospect of long life,"
said Cyril slowly. "But I do not want to
hold Stella only on the contingency of your
death. I want her to be mine in your lifetime,
while we are young and you are healthy. It
is a very natural wish. I should scarcely bea
man to feel differently."

Stella has her own heart only to consult,"
said Mr. Branscombe with a sudden throwing
up of his cards. " She knows that I will not
stand in the way of her happiness. If she can
find her happiness in this desertion of her
father I will not oppose it. She may marry
if she will. I will not forbid that marriage;

but I cannot sanction it by my approval or my
presence. I should regard it as an impious
insult to her mother's memory, as well as the
warrant of my own death. Let that be as it
may  marry, if you will. Marry  yes, marry,
my child  tomorrow if it seems good to you ;
but take your leave of your old father for ever,
and know that you have walked over his heart
to the altar and that you have desecrated your
mother's grave ! "

But this is too terrible  too dreadful ! "
cried Stella wildly. " Papa ! you know that
neither Cyril nor I would give you pain."

Yet you are giving me pain  acute pain 
anguish, I may say ! '' cried Mr. Branscombe,
suddenly laying his hand on his heart and
sinking into a chair.

His head was thrown back, his mouth was
open, his eyes were shut and his arms hung
loosely by his sides. It was the best imitation
of fainting that could be seen on the stage or
off it ; and it was more than poor Stella could
bear. She did not see the true face peeping-out
from behind that tragic mask ; and her
father's histrionic make-believe had on her all
the terrifying and softening effect that he had
hoped and for which he had played.

Cyril too, though he had not had much

experience in attacks of this sort, and though
he doubted in his own mind the genuineness
of what he saw now, was obliged to accept it
as truth, not being able to prove its falsehood ;
and he did his best with Stella to revive that
which had not failed.

After a time Mr. Branscombe thought fit to
come out of his swoon and to be once more
alive to facts and awake to sorrow. He raised
his head from Stella's breast, sat upright and
looked about him a little vaguely. Then he
passed his hand over his eyes and smiled
faintly, sweetly, with resignation and benignity.

You have surprised my secret, my dear
children," he said with the most touching air
of noble self-surrender. " My heart has long
been affected, like my dear wife's. Poor soul !
she never knew ! And any strong emotion
reduces me to the state in which you have just
seen me. After my loss I passed nights in this
semi-death  this terrible condition of insensibility
from which the waking is so agonizing 
o destroying! But now let the past conversation,
and all its pain, be forgotten. You shall
not find me in your way, my Stella. My good
Cyril, I will not stand against your happiness.
Marry, marry, and let me die, knowing that
though I am heartbroken you are happy."

I cannot leave you like this, papa'' said
innocent Stella with an appealing look to CyriL
*' Dearest Cyril, we cannot leave him," she
repeated.

Yet I can die alone ! " he said, smiling-faintly.
" It would be pleasant to see my
child's angel face as the last thing on earth
visible to my failing sight  the last thing here
before I meet her mother there ; but "

Here he stopped. His voice faltered ; he
turned away his head ; then taking Stella to
his heart he broke down into a purely feminine
flood of weeping.

So here were her two beloved men, each in
one day reduced to the level of hysterical girls
and all because of her !

If Cyril's tears had been painful, her father's
were terrible to poor Stella to witness. Her
whole life had been trained in belief in and
adoration of him. He represented to her her
mother's love and reverence  her mother's
counsels and decrees. He was all her past and
all her duty, her love, her home, her religion.
Cyril was her future, her young love and her
happiness ; but her father was her life ; and in
her obedience to him was included the approbation
of the Supreme and the clearness of her
own conscience.

You shall not be left, papa," lie said in
u moved and solemn voice. " Cyril himself
would not wish it. Cyril, you would not ask
me to leave papa in this state, would you,
darling ? I should never be hajopy if I did ! "

I would not ask you to do what you think
to be wrong," Cyril answered. " I only wish
you to act according to the dictates of your
own conscience and the inspiration of your own
heart."

Yes, act according to your own heart and
conscience," said Mr. Branscombe feebly, taking
the girl's hand and carrying it to his lips.
My child, choose ! Your father or your lover
  choose quickly ! I cannot support this much
longer ! "

Tears stood in his eyes again and he gave
a deep sigh ; then he began to sob ; and it
;seemed as if the fainting fit from which he
had just recovered were to be re-enacted. As
Mr. Branscombe gave these premonitory symptoms
of another collapse Cyril stiffened and
hardened. Until now he had stood pale and
quiet, as if struck to stone ; but now his lip
curled with contempt.

Cyril, say I am right ! " pleaded Stella,
whose faith in her father was as yet illimitable
and unshaken.

Right in what ? " he asked sternly.

It was cruel to her, but for himself he
wanted the sharpness of the spoken word 
he wanted to have the knife turned in his
wound.

To stay with papa," she said, turning to her
father but holding out her hand to her lover.

Good-bye," then said Cyril, after a moment
of dumb agony. " Good-bye for ever, Stella."

' No, no ! not for ever ! Cyril, say not forever
! " she pleaded.

For ever ! " he repeated. " Your father
will take you from me for ever. Good-bye,
Stella. God bless you ! God bless you, my
one only Love ! May you never repent your
choice ! Be happy without me, Stella ; but I
shall remain faithful to you to the end of my
life."

He took her almost forcibly from her father,
and held her closely pressed in his arms ; kissed
her pale face with all a boy's passion and a
man's devotion  with the reverence of worship,
the fervour of love ; then, without another
word, with no sign of farewell to Mr. Branscombe,
no repeated blessing to Stella, he turned
and left the room. A moment after Stella
heard the house door close, and knew then
that the sunshine of her life was shut out forever,

and that she was left only to the cold
dim starlight of sacrifice and duty. She turned
to her father and knelt at his feet, lifting her
bloodless face to his in mute agony, dumb
appeal. It was the devotee entreating the
grace of her god to whom she had sacrificed
her beloved.

My child," said Mr. Branscombe solemnly,
laying his hand on her head ; " that young
man was not worthy of you. You have chosen
the better part, my Stella, and while you have
blessed me you have redeemed yourself ! "

No, no ! " cried Stella wildly ; " anything*
but that, papa ! My heart, my life, all  all
I have  but leave me my faith in Cyril! As
long as I live I must love Cyril ! "

Poor, passionate, misguided moth ! " sighed
Mr. Branscombe grandly. " On my breast let
the scorched wings be healed ! "

He raised her from her knees and held her
to his heart, even at this moment his eyes-wandering
towards his easel and that interrupted
bit of cross-hatching. But for the first
time in her life her father's caress gave poor
Stella neither joy nor comfort  gave her instead
something akin to pain  something from which
she involuntarily shrank as partly a wound and
partly a desecration.

CHAPTER IX.

HER FIRST RESERVE.

In all country places where the boys of the
several families come down in the summer to
go back in the autumn, the sudden transition
from abounding gaiety to blank and dreary
dulness is one of the most painful experiences
which life can give to the girls who have lost
their playfellows and to the mothers who have
parted with their sons. For two months the
whole neighbourhood has been riotously alive
with the doings of the young fellows whose
whole aim of existence has been to get through
as much enjoyment as can be compressed into
the twenty-four hours, and to make as much
noise about it as if pleasure needed a trumpeter
to tell the world how she fares. Shouts and
laughter, signal and song, have wakened up
the echoes of the day ; and the low whisper,

VOL. II. M

the fond word, the stolen kiss, have added to
the harmonies of the fragrant night. These fine,
swift, stalwart, beardless lads have been in their
strength like young lions and in their beauty
like boy-gods  lords of the earth and masters
of life and of love  possessors of the present
and heirs of the future alike. The whole place
has been theirs. By their frank good-humour,
by their thoughtless joy, by the very force of
their vitality, they have taken all the fortresses
of shyness and pride, of reserve and ill-will ;
till even the crabbedest old maid leas smoothed
her ribbons as they passed, and the most suspicious
mother of a well-dowered daughter has
learned to believe there was no harm in them
after all.

And now they have gone and the bright bubble
has broken ! Silent, deserted, lifeless, the scene
of their pleasures and the theatre of their
triumphs knows them no more ; melancholy
reigns in the place of delight ; and the women
have to endure regret where they formerly possessed
gladness. No longer boats shoot down
the river or skim across the lake  boats where
emphatically youth was at the prow and
pleasure at the helm, and the Burden was one
of Fair Women with no place for Our Lady
of Pain among them. No longer the ping of

the guns is heard from wood and swamp, from
stubble field and heathery moor. Foxes may
carry their brushes in peace and pride ; hares
may crouch in their forms and never prick
their ears in fearful listening for the footsteps
of the enemy ; rabbits may nibble the sweet
grass of the meadows and turn up their little
white tufts in disdain of powder and shot, a
good aim and a long range ; and all the birds
of the air may fly where they will, their 
under the heavens are once more
safe and their own.

Lonesome and given up to maiden meditations,
by no means fancy free, the girls are
now as safe as the birds of the air and the
little brown beasts of the field. They may
come and go, walk out or bide at home as they
list ; not the most careful mother now feels
anxious as to where her Juliet may be roaming
nor what she may be coins;. She can come to
no harm ; unless, indeed, ineligible Homes
should spring up on the moorlands like mushrooms
in a night, or the woods should grow
detrimental like berries on the bushes. This
consciousness of safety makes life to Juliet's
mother a very different thing from what it was
when Romeo  rich in health, in youth, good
looks and hope, but with never a profession

as yet to this name, nor a penny-piece to call
his own save what his father pays for his
education and allows him for pocket-money 
was rambling through space and 
on elective affinities. Then no one knew
what might be asked in the gloaming to be
granted in the moonlight, and to bring trouble
to every one concerned when the cool morning
came and impossibility was seen to be beyond
the stature and strength of love. All this
harass and anxiety are over now. The hour of
youthful bliss in peril, and of maternal pain in
fear, is at an end ; and the dulness of safety
with the peace of security reigns in its stead.

This was the kind of thing that had come now
to Highwood. Social dreariness and feminine
freedom from danger were at their height. All
those young fellows, whose presence had brought
so much happiness and no less danger, had now
gone. Cyril Ponsonby, no longer a joyous
confident boy, but a grave, stern, saddened
man, was on his way to India. Randolph
Mackenzie was in London, unsettled as to his
future, but not inclining to the Orders so
warmly insisted on by his cousin. The Cowley
boys were at the University which had the
honour of bearing them on its books, but which
had not yet been able to hew out a mental

pathway by which to cart the bricks of the higher
mathematics into their brains. Jemmy Penne-father
had joined his ship, and was now sailing
away to the Chinese seas ; the middle two boys
had been drafted off, the one to college and the
other to school ; while Jack, the youngest, who
loved adventure and despised Latin, had gone
out to a tea-plantation in India, not far from
Cyril's station. Sandro Kemp was, no one
knew where ; and High wood was given uj) to
women, needlework, dulness and regret.

The only bachelors left in the place were
Colonel Moneypenny and Dr. Quigley ; but
these, though eligible for matrimony, were not
lovers like Cyril, friends like Sandro, nor confidants
like Randolph. Least of all were they
playfellows like the Pennefathers and the
Cowley boys. And as for the matrimonial
possibilities included in their state and fortune
no one wanted anything with them.

No ; the sun of High wood had set for the
season, and Chabot was the epitaph written
over its russet woods for summer green, its bare
brown fields for golden grain, its autumn weeds
for spring-time flowers. Spring, summer and
the rich red days of autumn had gone ; and
they had entered now into that season of drip
and damp, of mud and mire and rank decay

which comes before the time of frost and
snow.

Where all were sad it was hard to say who
most deserved compassion. That specious doctrine
of compensation was true for once, and
to each was left a little flower of moral satisfaction,
which in some sort atoned for the loss
of the larger growth. Stella had the sense of
duty well-fulfilled, her sweet unselfishness, and
her beloved papa. Augusta had also the sense
of her duty well-fulfilled, her cheerful reasonableness
of submission to the inevitable, and
her darling boy. The Pennefathers had their
good spirits which were independent of conditions,
and the satisfaction of devising and
embroidering certain startling costumes to be
worn at Christmas when the boys should be at
home and there would be more than one
pocketful of fun, arranged according to the
season. Hortensia had her elegant idol, who
was occupied in making her mind much as she
had desired to make her stalwart cousin's. And
for the rest  who can undo the past or soften
the decrees of that inexorable Fate whereby weare
ruled to our sorrow ? What was, was ;
and the parcels of life had to be borne, Whether
light or heavy, pleasant or painful.

Still, things were very blank and very dreary ;

and the efforts of the women to look bright and
content, as they stood under their dripping-umbrellas
and greeted each other by the church-porch
or on the roads, were heroic if useless.
It was simply the meeting of the Roman augurs
who looked into each other's faces and did not
laugh.

A coolness, without name or explanation,
had sprung up between The Laurels and Rose
Hill. Augusta recognized in Mr. Branscombe
an active enemy who would even give himself
trouble to give her pain ; and Mr. Branscombe
recognized in Augusta a critic whose sharp
eyes were not to be dazzled by finery nor
dimmed by flattery. No wash of gold nor
softening tint of rose-colour for her ! No
feverish enthusiasm nor blind belief for this
calm, cool Critic of Pure Reason ! No wonder,
then, that he was her active enemy, living ashe
did for praise alone and caring nothing for
truth and things as they were.

There was no ill-feeling between Augusta
and Stella, and each knew herself loved, pitied
and in some sense understood by the other ;
but the widow was as angry with Mr. Branscombe
as with Colonel Money penn', and with
both so far as reason would allow her to be
angry with any one. Like all wise people she

looked on passions as boomerangs which come
back with a blow on one's own pate, save when
one is so powerful as to rise above circumstances
; and then they are luxuries. Being
angry, she did nothing to break down the
coolness that had sprung up between her and
Rose Hill ; but being reasonable, she did
nothing to add to it. She took no public
action, and to the world was on exactly the
same terms as before ; but she kept away from
the house  and Mr. Branscombe understood
why.

One day the two young women met face to
face on the road. Both were walking  Augusta,
with her child, Stella alone.

Why, Stella, alone ! How is this ? '' cried
Augusta, as they came up to each other.

She took the girl's hands in hers and kissed
the poor, pale face that looked so white and
wan, surrounded by its mourning veil, for all
that this was the public road and a ploughman
had his horses' heads to the hedge.

Papa has gone to Derwent Lodge. He did
not want me to-day, and said I had better go
for a little walk," answered Stella.

She had the leaden look and listless accent of
a person whose fount of happiness has run dry,
and whose life is now one of sufferance rather

than of active energy. She carried her cross in
patience truly, but she did not try to cheat
herself into the belief that it was wreathed with
flowers not thorns.

Turn back with me and come for a pleasant
walk by the river-side. It is fresher than this
dull road ; and Tony and I are going. Come !
It will be better for you than tramping along
the highway by yourself."

Stella had an idea, by no means hazy, that
her beloved papa would rather she did not walk
by the river-side or elsewhere with Augusta
Latrobe ; and had she seen her way to an
excuse she would have refused on any ground
but the right. But she was taken unawares
and unprepared ; and she could not find it in
her heart to pain this sweet-tempered, kindly-mannered
woman, who had always been good
to her and who had, besides, been such a
favourite with dearest mamma and Cyril's
staunchest friend. So, yielding to the temptation
of complaisance, she said : '* Yes, she would
oro ; and it would be pleasant by the river-side
with Augusta and little Tony than here on the
full high-road by herself."

Whereat the two went into the field through
which they had to jass before they reached the
river, and talked as they went on everything

outside their hearts and in which they felt na
kind of interest.

Augusta had not been to the river since that
day when she had met Sandro under the elm-
tree, sketching the rock overgrown with flowers.
This had been the day after Mrs. Branscombe's
funeral ; and though she was as little superstitious
as weak, she caught the coincidence of
thus falling ujoon Stella on the very day when
she had determined to brave her memories and
suppress them by the overlay of a new association.
These coincidences which mean nothing,
often occur in our lives, she thought sagely.
Still it was odd ; and she noted it curiously.

Augusta," said Stella suddenly, just as
they crossed the field and came full on to the
river ; " what has become of Mr. Kemp ? Do
you know ? "

She spoke without note of warning ; quickly,
abruptly ; as if the sight of that river, which
ran so full of his name and presence to Augusta,
had suddenly brought the artist to her mind
too.

I do not know, dear," answered the widow,

turning to struggle with a tough bit of ragwort

and calling to her boys to come and have a few

golden flowers stuck into his cap.

You do not know where he is ? " said the

/

o'irl afcain. '' Then no one does, for you were
kis best friend."

"Was I?" replied Augusta, occupied with
her boy's cap and his golden flowers. " I was
not aware of that fact, Stella mia," she continued
with admirable indifference ; " but if you
say so, I suppose I was."

We always thought so," said Stella.

Oh yes, I remember now ! " replied Augusta
with a little dash of malice which she knew
Stella would not understand. " Your father
made out some odd theory of the same kind the
last time you called on us. But you have it all
to yourselves," she added with a forced laugh.
I make you a present of the whole affair 
friendship, intimacy, everything."

I did not know, of course, but I always
.thought you were very great friends," repeated
Stella, wide of the truth and dense as to her
companion's meaning. " At all events, he has
left Highwood and I do not think that he
intends to come back,"

So ? " returned Augusta quietly ; but her
fair face grew from fair to pale, and she opened
her lips while her nostrils dilated as if her
breath came with difficulty.

He is very unhappy about something ; sa
perhaps that marriage which was talked about

is broken off, poor fellow ! " said Stella, her eyes
filling with tears.

Eeason enough, according to her own sorrowful
glossary, why any one should he unhappy,
and why tears should come into her eyes for
sympathy with those who, like herself, had lost
their Love !

Perhaps it is," said Augusta. " Who told
you he was unhappy ? "

"Mary Mrs. Prinsep. She did not say
why. She said indeed, she did not know ; but
he left Fernacres quite suddenly one day after
he had received a letter ; and he did not say
where he was going. Nor has he written to
say where he is, nor when he was coming back.
It is very strange, is it not ? "

Very strange," said Augusta, speaking
automatically.

Poor fellow ! Something must have gone
wrong ! " continued Stella.

Yes, something must," said the widow.

I wonder what it is, Augusta ! "

I wonder," was the echo.

Mary said he looked dreadfully unhappy,"
continued the innocent torturer.

Ah ? " returned her listener.

I am so sorry he has left like this. I had
seen a good deal of him lately. Papa used to

have him to the house very often ; and I liked
him so much. He was always so kind and
gentle. I liked him really very much of late ;
did not you, Augusta ? "

I ? Yes, I liked him' said Augusta, in
the manner of one waking from sleep and
making an effort to concentrate her attention.
Every one liked him, so far as that goes," she
added vaguely.

What a miserable world it is ! How much
unhappiness there is everywhere ! " said Stella.
Once I used to think that every one, excepting
the very poor, was necessarily happy. I could
not imagine why people complained so much of
the miseries of life ; but now I do not wonder.
Every one seems to be so wretched ! I really
think the Pennefathers are the only thoroughly
happy people here. Even Hortensia is not
sincerely so, though she declares that she is ;
and you are not either, Augusta."

No, I am not happy," said Augusta with a
sudden rush of feeling. " Certainly, I am not
happy ! "

Poor darling ! you must be wretched ! I
know you must," said Stella, thinking" of the
dead husband with a side glance to the living
mother. " You have lost so much ! "

For a moment Augusta felt inclined to open

her heart and make the girl a present of her
confidence. She stopped herself in time, and
kept back the dangerous thoughts before they
took shape or sound in words. No, she must
be silent. It was not in her way to make confidences
at any time. She knew that the more
she was sufficient for herself the more completely
she would triumph, not only over her
own weaknesses which were few, but over her
external difficulties which were many. Besides,
an unmarried girl cannot understand how a
widow, or a woman past her first youth, should
be in love at all. The one is sacrilegious, the
other ridiculous. No ; she must not reveal herself
to Stella Branscombe. She must receive
confidences, not give them ; give sympathy,
not receive it. She must let no one see the
shadow of the cross she bore for love of her
boy  she must scarcely confess to herself that
she bore any cross at all ! Strength grows
better the less we dig about the roots of our
difficulties, and sorrows increase by contemplation
but dwindle when we refuse to look at
them. Nor could she even say : "I have had
to write a dreadful letter to Mr. Kemp," for
that would be giving the clue which would
lead straight into the heart of the maze. She
must say nothing save what was substantially

untrue as an indication, as she repeated Stella's
words :

Yes, I have indeed lost much ! But not
more than you have, my darling. You, too,
have lost all ! "

I have papa," said Stella with a sob.

 ' And I my boy," said the widow, checking
ti sigh.

Suddenly she turned with strange passion to
the girl.

"Oh, Stella!" she cried, stopping in her
walk and laying her hands on the shoulders
which had once been so round and smooth and
were now so sharp and angular.; " 3'ou should
have done as I told you. You should have
married Cyril Ponsonby ! You should not
have minded what any one said  you should
have kept your promise and have married
him ! "

How could I, Augusta ? " said Stella
piteously. " Papa would have died without
me ! "

Oh, no, he would not ! " said Augusta, still
with the same odd unusual heat of manner
traversed now by a bitter vein of sarcasm.
"' He would have got on quite well without
you; He would have missed you at first, of
course, but he would soon have made some

comfortable arrangement for himself, and lie
would have been quite as well satisfied as he
is now. And you and Cyril would have been
happy. Now you will regret your loss all your
life, and so will Cyril. For of course I know,
like all the world, that the engagement is
broken off now  not only the marriage postponed,
as it was at first ; and I know that I
may speak to you as if you were my younger
sister."

But papa is so good. He could not have
been left after poor mamma went. It was my
duty to stay with him. And he is so good,"
Stella said again, as if she were repeating an
ave or a charm.

If he had been as good as you say, he would
have let you marry and be happy, instead of
sacrificing you to his own vanity and selfishness,"
thought Augusta. But again she pressed back
dangerous thoughts before they had taken
shape or sound. Stella's blind faith in her
father almost irritated her seeing so clearly as
she did ; it seemed to be less filial piety than
intellectual fatuity; and she longed to enlighten
the girl and make her see the truth as she
herself and others saw it. Still, it was not her
duty, Augusta reflected, to open a daughter's
eyes to the pitifulness of the sham whereof love

had made a demigod ;'*biit she kept to lier point
all the same.

You should have married him," she repeated,
as warmly as before. " You have ruined his
life as well as your own ; and it was not in your
duty to throw him off as it would he in mine.
You have no one to care for, to protect, for whom
to sacrifice yourself as I have. Your father can
take care of himself ; my boy can not  and he
has only me to love him and look after his best
interests."

And then, how strange a thing to happen ! 
Augusta Latrobe, the calm, reasonable, self-restrained
woman suddenly loosed the reins of
her control and covered her face in her hands ;
and Stella saw the tears steal through her
fingers and fall like rain to the ground.

She was shocked, startled, half frightened.
She felt as if Augusta had told her that she
had some mortal malady and must die, or had
committed some deadly crime and must be
punished. She could not understand it all, nor
see what she meant and to what she alluded ;
when suddenly the little fellow came running*
up to his mother, clinging to her gown and
whimpering.

' Mamma, why do you cry ? " he said.
This is just the place where you cried that

VOL. II. N

day when we saw Mr* Kemp. What makes
you always cry here ? Has Stella been talking
to you as Mr. Kemp did ? "

The truth leapt out like fire into the girl's face.

She loves Sandro Kemp and has had to
refuse him because her mother would not let
her marry him ! "

This was the meaning of it all. Henceforth
she knew the secret of her friend's life. It was
a shock, of course, a wrench to her respect, a
trial of her faith, as Augusta knew that it
would be. But mental prejudices generally go
down before affection and sympathy, and Stella
remembered only that her friend suffered, and
forgot that as a widow beyond thirty she had
no right to suffer as she did at all.

Poor darling ! poor love ! " she said in an
undertone, kissing her even as Augusta had
kissed her, from the fulness of her sympathy
and sorrow.

The widow raised her face and returned the
caress.

Never speak of this to me," she said in a
low voice ; and then gave herself to the task of
comforting her little boy who had suddenly
broken his heart for sorrow, fear and jealousy
together.

So now the two understood each other

without fuller explanation, but with perfect
confidence ; and womanlike, each was as much
interested in the other's love as if it had been
her own. And while Augusta wondered if she
could not induce Stella still to marry Cyril, Stella
wondered if there was any way by which
Augusta could possibly permit herself to marry
Sandro. Poor, dear, loving women ! And the
men for whom they wept thinking them hard,
cold and heartless !

This walk and confidence with Augusta
Latrobe was the first secret kept from her
father in Stella's transparent life. She felt as
if she had somehow fallen from grace and had
come into sin, and as if she should never be her
old innocent self again, because she did not
run, open-mouthed, to tell him all that she had
done and learned. She would not even say
that she had seen Augusta. She did not
know why, but she could not volunteer even this
apparently insignificant little statement. Nevertheless,
when, later in the evening, he asked
her where she had been ? and whom she had
seen ? she would not conceal the bare bones of
the fact if she still kept the heart of the
circumstance hidden.

I met Augusta Latrobe, and we went for a
walk by the river-side," she answered.

Mr. Branscombe frowned.

Of all the young women in the place she is
the least desirable companion for you," he said
slowly and emphatically. " I thought I had
made this clear to you already, my child.
However that may be, you will bear it in mind
for the future, will you not ? I do not approve
of Mrs. Latrobe as your companion. This is
the text on which you must embroider the
various renderings of obedience and renunciation
as occasions may occur. You understand me ? "

"Yes, if you wish it, papa," faltered Stella.
*' It is so unfortunate that you do not like her,"
she added, plucking up so much courage of
opposition as was contained in this plea. "She
is so very kind and sweet ! And I always
remember that dearest mamma liked her so
much, and was so sorry for her."

"As I once expressed myself to you, my
dear Stella, your sainted mother, my good
Matilda, had the unfortunate propensity for
making pets of Avery undesirable people," said
Mr. Branscombe significantly. " Of more than
this objectionable young woman," he added
with a cruel smile.

Stella said no more. She knew for whom
her father meant the ricochet of this bullet
limed at Augusta ; and Mr. Branscombe,

looking at her flushed face and a certain
unexpressed fire of indignation in her blue eyes,
wondered for a moment if it were in the possible
ordaining; of future things that his Star should
blameless radiant than heretofore  his docile
child learn to be so far disobedient and recalcitrant
as to encourage affections which he
disallowed.

To make sure of her, at least for the present,
he gave himself a great deal of trouble that
evening ; putting himself forth, as he so well
knew how, as the embodied ideal of moral
perfection and mental splendour ; dazzling, as
so often before, the mind made subservient to
his by the long training of love and worship 
till Stella felt that for papa  dear, dear papa 
martyrdom itself would be not only right but
easy.

It was a little trial to her on all sides, when
next Sunday she and Augusta met in the church
porch as the manner of the place was, and she
-had to speak to her with studied indifference. Mr.
Branscombe had by now relaxed the severity of
his mourning isolation; and he and Stella
joined the Sunday church-door club according
to the manner of the Highwoodites in general.
As usual, he did not see the pretty widow
clearly enough to shake hands with her, but he

watched his daughter while appearing to be
occupied only with Mrs. Lyon and Hortensia.
Augusta saw the whole position as clearly as if
it had been laid down in black and white ; and
she knew what Stella was feeling and what
were her difficulties. Wherefore she simply
smiled and gave the girl's hand a friendly,
secret squeeze which betrayed nothing and
confessed all. Then she passed out into the
damp fog with the noisy Doves, and troubled no
one. But Stella had now a secret in her
hitherto pure and crystalline life. She had established
a private understanding with Augusta
Latrobe whom her father disliked, and bade her
dislike also and shrink from. And she, of
all in Highwood, knew the secret of the young
widow's life and what had been the moving
cause of Sandro Kemp's sudden departure. It
was a terrible burden for a girl who had never
thought a thought nor done a deed with the
faintest semblance of reserve or mystery. But
fate is often very hard on us ; and nothing
pleases a malign fortune so much as to push us
into actions uncongenial to our qualities. The
truthful she forces into insincerity, the self-sacrificing
have to appear selfish, the generous
are thrust into misers' rags, and the gentle-hearted
have to be judges and executioners.

And this malignity Stella experienced for the
first time, when, the very soul of truth and
candour as she was, she returned Augusta's
hand-press with one as significant and warm,
and neither wished nor allowed her father to
see.

CHAPTER X.

"Ein DOWN."

' How ill Stella Branscombe is looking ! "

This was the one common piece of news
which each exchanged with each and all passed
on to the next comer.

And she was, as they said, looking wretchedly
ill. She was pale and thin, to the loss of all
that lovely colouring, that graceful outline, so
characteristic of her former self. Her eyes
were too deeply sunk for one so young, and
large blue circles were round the orbits. Her
lips were too colourless, her hands too transparent,
her step was too heavy, her bearing
too listless. And she had, beside this want of
life and spirit, a harassed expression in her
face behind which could be read a certain kind
of strange fear that set folks wondering why,
and made them think of Mrs. Branscombe. So

that many supplemented their first piece of
information with : " and how like she grows to
her poor mother ! '' But, like that mother,
she did not complain ; and when asked somewhat
significantly how she was, answered
always in the same way : ' Yell  quite well,
thank you."

Of course her father saw nothing of what
was so visible to every one else. Devoted to
elegance and art as he Alas, he shut his eyes
to the prosaic conditions of indigestion and
nervous exhaustion ; and if forced to accept
delicacy " as a fact, accepted it only in its
aesthetic aspect, and worked it up with images
of spirits and angels and flowers and moonlight
nights, of mist-wreaths on the hill and
of snowflakes on the young grass. He could
not by any possibility come down to the gross
truths of physiology, and preferred his poetic
rendering to any scientific interpretation that
could be given.

It was rather an awkward position for Dr.
Quigley. He saw, even more clearly than the
rest, that Stella had " run down," but he was
not called in to give his opinion ; and professional
etiquette is against a man's taking a
patient by force or volunteering advice without
leave asked or request made. Nevertheless, he

determined to break through that conventional
etiquette so far as he might, and to do what he
could to make Mr. Branscombe see things as
they were, and do his duty when he had seen
them. Accordingly, one bright, crisp, frosty
day he went up to Eose Hill, and found father
and daughter at home, with Hortensia Lyon to
bear them company.

He was ushered into the studio where Mr.
Branscombe received those visitors whose presence
pleased him or whose praise he coveted.
The room was hot, close, stifling ; full of the
odours of paint and varnish and heavily-scented
greenhouse flowers, combined with the perfume
of a small fountain of eau de Cologne, always
playing on the table. The atmosphere and
temperature alone were sufficient to account for
any amount of pallor and lassitude in the girl,
thought Dr. Quigley. Add to these the constant
stooping over her desk and the strain of
that unremitting mental servitude which was
demanded of her by her father  and, thought
the doctor again, what stuff it was when it was
done !  and was it to be wondered at if Stella
looked worn-out and run down as she did, and
as if she would fall into a severe illness unless
her present disastrous mode of life were interrupted
?

Dr. Quigley loved this girl as if she had been
his own. Had he not loved her mother as the
one perfect woman of his life ?  venerated her
as the saint whose sufferings he had known
without confession and whose martyrdom he
had tried in vain to avert ? Loving and pitying
the child  loving, venerating and pitying
the mother  his feelings for Mr. Branscombe
were not of the most amiable kind. But he
had to dissemble, like the stock villain of a
Surrey melodrama ; and though he could not
stoop to the indignity of obtaining by flattery
what would be denied to direct demand, still
he, like every one else who had to influence
Mr. Branscombe, was forced to finesse deeply
that he might catch the trick. If he could
have done as he would, he said to himself, he
would have taken that old fop by the scrubs
of the neck and have thrust him into the midst
of good useful prosaic parochial work, which
would have necessitated open-air exercise and
being somewhat hardly handled by his fellowmen.
He would have taken Stella clear away
from Highwood and her father, and would
have sent her off to India by the next mail,
with directions to be given into Cyril 's
keeping and married out of hand the
day after her arrival. As for Hortensia, whose

character lie understood to the echo, and whose
feelings and motives were clearer to him than
they were even to herself, he would have put an
interdict on Rose Hill and Mr. Branscombe ; he
would have taken her out of her father's hands
and given her into those of her mother, with
instructions to be carried about to balls and
parties and theatres and operas till some of
this Puritanical nonsense had been knocked
out of her and a little of the mildew of moral
affectation had been rubbed off her silly little
mind. But instead of all these strong and
wholesome measures he had to dissemble in
good truth, and to content himself with a mere
'Pouf!" as he flung back his coat, wiped his
forehead, fanned himself with his handkerchief,
and said in a cheery fox-hunting kind of voice :

You are terribly hot here, Mr. Branscombe !
How stands the thermometer ? And don't you
find all this scent oppressive ! It would give
me headache in half an hour."

I am a Son of the South," said Mr. Branscombe
with a languid smile. " Warmth,
flowers, perfumes  these are as necessary for
my existence as the gross bread and meat of
coarser organizations. I must have them if I
am to live at all."

But these two young ladies here are

daiig'bters of the North ; and this kind of things
especially bad for Miss Stella," returned ther
doctor. " I understand now why she looks so
pale and run down. She wants more exercise
in the open air than she has, and a fresher
and cooler atmosphere than this when she is
in the house. Believe me, this is destruction
for a young creature of her age. And, Miss
Hortensia Lyon, you too have no business
here ! Why are you not running about the
garden instead of sitting in the house such a
day as this ? Hothouses are bad rearing-grounds
for the young."

* I like warmth and I adore hothouse flowers''
said Hortensia primly.

Stella did not speak.

Tut ! what you like and what you adore
don't come into the question," said Dr. Quigley
with a good-humoured impatience of manner
that matched her real annoyance well enough.
Both you young ladies, I say, have no business
in such an atmosphere as this. You ought to
be out now on the Broads with the rest. The
water is frozen as thick as a millstone, and all
Highwood is skating. Such a glorious day as
this, it is a pity that you are not both out.
What do you say. Miss Stella, eh ?"

Stella glanced with a hurried look of inquiry

at her father. Hortensia turned her large eyes
slowly to Mr. Branscombe, and fixed them on
his face with that kind of worshipping humility
which finds in obedience to superior power the
greatest happiness of a loving life.

I think that papa wants me," said Stella
nervously.

Not to your own disinclination, my child,"
said Mr. Branscombe loftily.

If you like to go out, Stella, I can finish
your copying," said Hortensia, a certain eagerness
of hope mingled with an amount of
reproach in her voice.

Always the faithful Abra !  always the
constant incense-bearer !

"No, Miss Hortensia, you have no more
right to be here than Miss Stella," said Dr.
Quigley. "Let me advise you all  you, too,
Mr. Branscombe, as well as the young ladies 
put on your strong shoes, wrap up warm, goto
the Broads where they are skating, and all
three of you take a turn on the ice. That
will put a little colour into your faces ; for
you are all as pallid as if you had not half
a dozen red corpuscles among you ! And upon
my soul you will have to send for me before
long if you do not mend the error of your
ways ! Let me advise you as a friend and a
doctor too."

' If the ladies will," said Mr. Branscombe
stiffly. " For myself, I am beyond the need of
such vulgar considerations."

As fresh air and exercise ? " said Dr.
Quigley. " Then you are beyond the conditions
of ordinary humanity," he added with
ill-concealed contempt.

We do not wish it if you do not, papa,"
said Stella.

"It is so far nicer here 1 " echoed Hortensia,
whose occupation was nothing more onerous
than sitting by Mr. Branscombe, watching him
paint and listening to the frothy rubbish which
he offered and she accepted for poetry of the
loftiest kind and morality of the sublimest
cast.

Tut ! " said Dr. Quigley again. " Go and
put on your bonnets, both of you  else. Miss
Hortensia, so far as you are concerned, I shall
be forced to say a word or two in your mother's
ear which you will not like when it has to be
translated for your benefit. I cannot have you
all run to seed in this way. Come, Miss Stella,
put that writing of yours away. It is a positive
sin to waste such a day as this indoors."

Shall we, papa ? " asked Stella.

What a wicked girl she was to be so weary
of her present life and endless absorption in

papa's beautiful work !  and how worse than
wicked to be so tired of Hortensia Lyon ! Hortensia
was right to reproach her with those
grave reproving eyes. Yes; she was wicked,
and her friend knew it.

I wish no sacrifice of young lives. Go, my
dears," said Mr. Branscombe majestically ; and
Stella felt the burden of her sin in his tone as
well as in Hortensia's eyes.

" Stella, you are inexplicable ! I cannot
understand you," said the little Puritan with
frank, ungodly temper, as they went upstairs.

'' No?" returned Stella wearily. " Sometimes
I cannot understand myself."

Few people indeed can, when they come to
the state in which she was  utterly weary with
her present conditions yet without energy
enough to know what she would like better.
She only knew that she was tired of copying-papa's
poetry and music ; that she was tired of
being always in the studio ; that she was tired
of seeing Hortensia Lyon day after day, day
after day ;  Hortensia always, and no one else ;
and that, above all, she was tired of that odd
jargon and jumble of words which were always
sounding in her ears and never entering into
her mind, never giving her a new thought, a
definite fact, a clear image, or a cheerful sensation.

She was so tired of it all and wished
that she could go to sleep with her dear mother !
But, save this wish, which was not to be called
an active desire, she did not know what it was
that she wanted in the place of that which she
had. " Run down " to the extent of patient
despair ; and she so young and once so near the
green glades of Paradise !

You must look after that child of yours,"
said Dr. Quigley, when the girls had left.
'' She is going the way of her mother ; and
unless . you look out, by George ! Branscombe,
she will slip through your fingers before you
know where you are ! "

He spoke with intentional abruptness and
coarseness of tone, thinking that this old fop
had need of some smart blow if that rhinoceros;*
hide of his self-conceit were to be made to
feel.

Oh, you doctor fellows are always on the
look out for ' cases,' " said Mr. Branscombe irritably.
" My daughter's health is perfect ; simply
perfect. She has never had a day's indisposition
of any kind, and seems to me to be in the most
satisfactory condition possible. If you had said
that / wanted looking to I should have understood
it. Had you even said that Miss Lyon's
constitutional fragility might give those who

VOL. II.

love her cause for uneasiness, that also I should
have understood. But, my dear sir ! " here he
smiled in a superior and sarcastic way ; " Miss
Branscombe is simply superb  in perfect condition,
mind and body ; and I thank God for it ! "
he added, piously raising his eyes to the ceiling.

Now, see here, Mr. Branscombe,'' said Dr.
Quigley ;" it is no business of mine to warn you
don't you see ? My business would be to let
your daughter go on as she is now, when I
should have a ' case,' as you call it, on my hands
and a pocketful of fees as the result. But I
don't want this case, and I would rather never
receive another fee again than one for Stella
Branscombe's illness. So I give you fair and
friendly warning. If you do not loosen the
curb a little  provide the girl with some kind
of amusement necessary for her age  force her
to go more into the fresh air than she does, 
make her take exercise and give up this eternal
poring over her desk in this hot, heavily-loaded
atmosphere, Stella will die die, sir, so surely
as her mother died before her. I do not mince
matters, you see ; for I am in earnest. The girl
is going the same way as her mother, and " 
significantly  " from the same cause."

God bless my soul, what can I do with
her ! " cried Mr. Branscombe angrily. " She

has her appointed duties and she must fillip
them. You are alarming me without cause. Dr.
Quigley. She is not in the bad way you make
out. I am ; hut she is not  and I cannot lose
her valuable co-operation. Everything will go
by the board if I do ! ''

'' As to that, take a secretary," said Dr.
Quigley. " Rather a dozen secretaries than lose
your daughter."

'you startle me. you distress me, you disturb
me," said Mr. Branscombe. " How can I take
a secretary ? Why not advise me to take a
white elephant at once ! "Where shall I find a
secretary ? How can I introduce a young man
with a rumpled shirt-front and inky fingers into
the penetralia of my establishment ? He will
steal my ideas and fall in love with my
daughter."

In all probability he will do neither one nor
the other," said Dr. Quigley brusquely. '' But
the difficulties of the position are not my affair.
My duty is to warn you, as I have done, that
your daughter's health is giving way to such an
extent  she is running down so rapidly  that
unless some radical change is made in her mode
of life I will not answer for the consequences.
Ah ! here they come ! " he cried, as the girls
entered the room. " Now for a brisk good walk

to the Broads, and a tumble or two ou the ice
to whip up the circulation ! "

Miss Branscombe and Miss Lyon are not a
couple of milkmaids, sir," said Mr. Branscombe
with haughty irritation.

And a deuced sight better for both if they
were," returned the doctor  his chin in the air
and his keen eyes full of fire. That fellow's airs
and affectation always tried his patience, as he
said to himself. That such a selfish windbag as
this should have been the husband of that saint
and the father of this sweet child ! ''Ah, well I
Providence has queer ways of its own," said
-Dr. Quigley as he turned from this stately,
refined and artificial house and drew a deep
breath when well out in the sunshine and the
crisp cold air of this bright winter's day.

As his daughter and his young worshipper
had to "leave off work," by orders which
the master of Rose Hill was too wise in his
generation to disobey, it was not in the nature
of things that Mr. Branscombe should stay'
behind and alone. He therefore made himself
fit to bear the inclemency of this frightful
weather, as he put it ; and in his fur-lined coat,
with its deep collar and cuffs of Astrachan,
his broad-leaved, Rembrandt-looking hat, and
beaver gloves, he was really glad in heart to

shave the opportunity of showing himself. " He
certainly was a handsome fellow," he said to
himself, as he pulled his hair into festoons and
curls from beneath his hat and settled himself
with precision everywhere, from his head to his
feet. Certainly a handsome fellow, now and
always ; " Handsome Fred Branscombe " to the
last! So Hortensia thought, and so Stella
thought too ; and the three set out to walk
according to the doctor's directions, for the sake
of that health and " tone " which burnt away
like tinder and was dissipated like smoke in the
life and atmosphere of the studio.

And as they were going Mr. Branscombe.
taking the suggestion as his own, told Stella
that he was going to lighten her labours by
engaging a secretary, so that she might have
more time to amuse herself  he said this with a
strange kind of emphasis  and more opportunity
for fresh air and exercises

papa " she began.

Let me be your secretary, Mr. Branscombe,"
interrupted Hortensia. " Nothing would make
me so happy, and I am sure I could do it with
a little practice. I should soon be able to do
almost as well as Stella."

Quite," said Mr. Branscombe emphatically.

' If papa thinks it too trying for me would it

not be so for you too, Hortensia ? " said Stella a
little hurriedly.

She was not jealous by nature  not in the
least ; but the thought of Hortensia at Eose Hill
every day by right did undeniably startle hers
and not pleasantly.

Hortensia would put goodwill into the
work," said Mr. Branscombe cruelly.

Oh, papa ! does that mean that I do not ? "
cried poor Stella, her eyes filling with tears.

That means nothing against you, my dear,"
said Mr. Branscombe. " It means only praise
of your good little friend. Is commendation of
the one blame of the other ? Fie ! "

No  but " began the girl.

jQ  "but . But I know who is a very

silly, jealous little girl," said Mr. Branscombe
with forced jocularity ; ' so do not let us have
any more ' No, buts.' If your good little friend
is willing to undertake the office I shall be only
too proud to accept her services. Between you
both I may hope to get something done."

And as by this time they had reached the
Broads further conversation on the subject was
impossible.

In the evening, Hortensia broached her
notable scheme to her parents. She was going
to undertake ]Mr. Branscombe's copying for him

to be in fact, she said, his secretary; as Stella
evidently did not care for the work which was
just what she herself would like.

Mr. Branscombe's what, my little maid ? "
asked her father, opening his eyes.

His secretary," she repeated demurely.

He flung himself back in his chair and
laughed aloud.

*' Xot if I know it I "' ho said. ' You can go
and see Stella as often as you like. There is
no kind of objection to that ; but you won't goon
any such wild-goose errand as being the
old gentleman's secretary. If he wants one let
him hire one. They are to be had for the
asking. Let him take Ean. He writes a
capital hand, and it is just the work he would
like."

*' Randolph would scarcely do for Mr. Branscombe's
secretary," said Hortensia with the
daintiest little accent of sarcasm. ' He is a
dear good boy but I do not think he is quite
up to that work."

No ? Not quite down to it you mean, my
little maid," said her father, laughing again.
The old gentleman's verses are rather feeble
stuff I must say for such a young son of Anak
to tackle. Still, it will give him something todo,
and he might be at a worse crank if he

could scarcely find a weaker. At all events,
I will propose it ; and if the cat jumps that
way I will write to Ran, who would not say
No. Whatever happens however, I will not
have any nonsense about you, do you understand
? No secretaryships, my little maid, for
Mr. Branscombe or any one else."

'* But why not, papa ? " asked Hortensia
loftily. " I could not be better employed ! I
could not be doing anything that would refine
and elevate me more than this."

Stuff and nonsense, my dear," he answered
with good-humoured impatience. " You might
be making a pudding in the kitchen or casting
up the weekly bills for your mother ; and that
would be far more elevating, and a deal more
useful, than copying out that queer rubbish
which our friend at Rose Hill calls poetry.
And whether or no, you don't do it, do you
hear ? So now there's no more to be said ; and
go and sing me ' Cherry Ripe,' like a dear."

But Hortensia broke down before she had
got half through the first verse, and cherries
turned to tears in her song.

Why, how now ! " said her father. " What
is this, my little maid ? You are not getting
so that you cannot be thwarted, even in an
absurd fancy like this, without showing silly

tempers that a child should be ashamed of? Is
this the right reward for all the love and indulgence
with which you have been treated
from the day of your birth up to now ? Is this
really my little maid who has grown so peevish
nd unpleasant ? "

I have always told you, William, that you
spoil the child, and that some day you would
find it out," said his wife irritably.

In general, her interference when things went
wrong between father and daughter, only
brought herself into disgrace ; but this evening
her husband felt somehow unable to cope with
Hortensia's latest folly. There was something
in it that puzzled and confounded him, and he
was not sorry to give the reins for the moment
to his wife.

Well, take her and manage her your own
way," he said, also irritably. ' I think the
very mischief gets into you women so that you
do not know what you want nor what you ail !
I wash my hands of you both, and you may go
your own way for what I care. But tears or
no tears, Hortensia," he added severely, " you do
not make yourself Mr. Branscombe's secretary,
as you choose to call it. There is something in
all this that I neither like nor understand."

On which he flung himself out of the 

and went to his OAvn study in a pet 
the most good-natured father in the world now
really annoyed with his idolized little maid !

Now, you have vexed papa in earnest,"
said Hortensia's mother, also severely.

She was not sorry to have this opportunity for
unrestricted censure. Her husband stood so
sturdily between her and her maternal right as
well as duty  shall we add pleasure ?  of
rebuke, that she felt quite comfortable in
having thus delegated to her her own natural
task of moral castigation.

"Your temper is getting really too bad to
be borne, Hortensia," she went on to say. " And
I foresee that you will weary even papa, who-has
always been so kind and indulgent to you.
One silliness after the other, and tears and sobs
if you are checked in a single desire ! Your
papa has spoilt you  that is just the truth
of it!"

Hortensia made no reply. She only wept
with a little more demonstration.

'' Why are you crying, Hortensia ? In the
name of patience what is there to cry about ? "
said the mother sharply.

I should like to be of use to Stella," sobbed
Hortensia with unconscious hypocrisy.

Her mother looked at her narrowly.

I think you go up to Eose Hill a great deal
too much as it is," she said. " I do not approve
of these tremendous friendships. They are unwholesome,
and always come to bad ends. I shall
try to make papa forbid this incessant running
up to Mr. Branscombe's. It is too much."

No, mamma, it is not. There is no reason
why I should not go'' said Hortensia with
sobbing energy. " It is the only pleasure 1
have. Stella is m} only friend."

"Oh!" said Mrs. Lyon dryly. "Then I
think it would be just as well if you made a
friend of some one else  Mrs. Latrobe, for instance,
or those good-natured Pennefather girls.
It is not wise to be so very exclusive."

Mrs. Latrobe ! the Pennefathers ! " said
Hortensia scornfully if still tearfully. "Not
two ideas among them ! "

Perhaps they are none the worse for that,"
said Mrs. Lyon tartly.

She had about one idea and a half on her
own account, and she rather despised intellect
in women as something unfeminine and inimical
to good housekeeping. But she said no more,
and Hortensia did not answer. Mrs. Lyon was
not remarkable for wisdom, but she had sense
enough to hold her peace and not give life to
the special thought which had come into her

mind more than once of late. She held her
peace even to her husband ; saying only, when
they discoursed on their daughter's latest craze
that night :

You never do take my advice, William, but
I most earnestly advise you to put a stop to
this perpetual going up to Rose Hill. It is
getting to be too much. And I do not like the
idea of Randolph's being mixed up in Mr.
Br anscombe's affairs. It will keep up what is
a very unwholesome excitement with Hortensia."


' Stuff, Cara!" said Mr. Lyon;  the child
must have some amusement, and Stella Branscombe
is the safest friend she could have. And
it is the very thing for Ran. And if I can
manage it, I will."

Then you'll repent it," said Mrs. Lyon
sharply.

When I do I shall not blame you, Cara,"
retorted her husband.

They always wrangled over their daughter,
and never about anything else. But Hortensia
had been their one steady bone of contention
ever since she began to talk and ask for
sugar, which her mother forbade and her father
gave. As time went on, and more than sugar
came between them, the quarrels were graver

in meaning and more frequent in occurrence :
quarrels wherein the mother had the better
sense and worse method, and where the father
was amiably wrong and lovingly mischievous.
If only their little maid had been content to be
good, and had not aspired to be superior !

CHAPTER XI.

HIS SECRETARY.

It all came about as Mr. Lyon had proposed.
Randolph Mackenzie was formally engaged as
Mr. Branscombe's secretary, with a salary to
make things business-like and to put them on
a mutually honourable footing ; and Stella was
thus free to find such amusement as was to be
had in the empty drawing-room and leafless
warden. But this was better than her close
confinement in that stifling studio ; and at least
she could now read other things beside her
father's poetry, practise other pieces of music,
or work with some sort of profitable earnestness,
not interrupted every moment by calls on
her attention which made her days like so many
scattered bits of a puzzle without order or
sequence, without meaning or completeness.
Both poetry and music were of course grand

nd lovely ; but she hardly dared confess it to
herself  indeed she would have held it for sin
had she acknowledged it  how unutterably
weary she had become of them and what wonderful
emptiness she found in them now !

This institution of the secretary, and the
choice of the person made to fill it, pleased
every one but Mrs. Lyon. mr. Branscombe,
despising Eandolph personally and looking on
him as an intellectual grub within which the
potential butterfly was so dwarfed as to be
practically dead, was yet gratified by the clearness
of the grub's handwriting, by the accuracy
of his copy, and by the good-nature with which
he bore rebuffs. He was glad too, to have a
daily and recognized link with that pretty little
devotee whose worship was so sweet to his
sense of superiority and in whose mental culture
he took so much delight; and he was
proud to be able to say, " My Secretary," when
he bid for his neighbours' praise by detailing
his various achievements. Stella was o-lad to
have Cyril's faithful friend and confidant so
near to her that snatches of stolen talk on the
lives of young civil servants in India were
possible, if, under all the conditions of the case,
not very profitable. Randolph was glad to be
able to watch over Cyril's interests  against

whom ?  and to sun himself daily in the
light of Cyril's star, and because Cyril's  only
because Cyril's  his own also. Hortensia was
glad that her elegant idol should put his graceful
hand to the work of tilling her cousin's tardy
soul  that work which she had taken on
herself, and which she had found so almost
impossible owing to the clayey nature of the
soil. Mr. Lyon, who had his own views in
keeping Eandolph close under his eyes, was
glad that his wish had been carried into
execution and that he had found folks as
reasonable as he had hoped. Only Mrs. Lyon
refused to add her note to the chord of congratulation,
and always maintained that it was
a mistake, and time would show that it was
when too late for reparation.

Of course the neighbours laughed at the
affectation of the whole affair, and ridiculed the
idea of that old fop wanting a secretary at all 
as if he had anything to do that was of the
very least importance. But then people are so
ill-natured to merit ! The jays peck so enviously
at the nightingale !

Two results came about by this engagement
of the secretary  Stella's lines of liberty were
enlarged at all borders so generously as to take
in even Augusta Latrobe without rebuke, and

Mr. Branscombe's fount of creative energy ran
curiously dry in Randolph's presence. It was
not that he feared anything like hostile criticism
from his o-rub. He would as soon have looked
for a repetition of the miracle which set Balaam
wondering. But he missed the stimulus of
loving flattery, and he felt like a man who
has been walking on a pair of stilts when
suddenly brought flat-footed to the ground. Inconsequence
of this dryness in the fount, there
was a great deal more out-of-door life than
hitherto, and the four friends were to be met
riding and walking about the frozen country to
an extent heretofore unknown to hothouse-living
Finery Fred. They did not do much in
the way of driving, which naturally he would
have preferred as his mode of exercise when
forced out of that indolent activity of his studio
life. It was no pleasure to him to go in the
brougham alone with Stella ; or in the carriage
with Hortensia opposite to him and that big,
clumsy cousin of hers by his side and opposite
to Stella ; or even with the two girls alone.
His pleasure was in unrestricted converse with
his little devotee alone, and in cultivating her
mental garden free of bystanders and listeners.
If he could not have this he would not have the
rest. So they went out in a party of four ; and

VOL. II. p

Mr. Branscombe always managed to draw off
with Hortensia while Randolph was left with
Cyril's Star  and, because Cyril's, his own as
well.

Thus, for bosom friends as they were
supposed to be  friends so near and dear and
so mutually necessary as to excuse her perpetual
desertion of home and its duties with the little
Puritan  the two girls were very little together ;
and the work of making Randolph's tardy soul
went on at a snail's pace.

What Stella lost in Hortensia however, she
Gained in Hortensia's cousin  " Brother Randolph."
Yes, he was just that  her dear,
dear, good, trustworthy brother ; unselfish,
exacting, loving her as much as she wanted
to be loved and not a hair's-breadth less or
more ; the mere echo of her wish ; the copy of
her attitude ; a reflection ; a repetition ; in nowise
active for his own part, nor with feelings,
ideas, sentiments of which she did not set the
exact lines. That was the unspoken theory inforce
between Cyril's friend and Cyril's former
fiancee ; and both believed it to be eminently
workable and standing four square on all sides.
It is one of the most delightful of all the theories
which women make for themselves ; though
alas! one of the most slippery and unstable.

Nevertheless it pleases the eye till the inevitable
day comes when card-houses must perforce
tumble into ruins, when ropes of sea-sand fall
to dust, when iridescent bubbles vanish into
thin air, leaving only a tear behind. Meantime,
and before the dawn of that inevitable
day, it serves as a dream and an amusement,
and holds the ground against others perhaps
less innocent.

Randolph's brotherhood was a delightful
addition to Stella's arid life ; and Stella's sisterhood
was even more delightful to him. How
pleasant it was to see her blue eyes brighten
and glisten with such manifest affection when
he came into the room !  to see her look at him
as if he were really her brother, and something
of her very own! It was all for Cyril, of course
all her affection for him, all his devotion to her
all for the lover from whom she had separated
herself, for the chum whose lapsed interests he
was so sedulously guarding. He was always
telling himself this, as a piece of information
specially needful to be planted fathoms deep in
his mind ; but he rejoiced in this reflected
affection, this vicarious happiness, as much as if
it had been because of himself alone ; and one
day when she said to him : " How glad I am
that dear papa thought of making you his

secretary, Eandolph ! I do not know what I
should do without you now ! " he felt his heart
swell within him with such a sudden rush of
joy as to be almost pain.

That fraternal relation was certainly one of
the most charming things in the world, and
he was one of the luckiest fellows in the world.
Hortensia and Stella, two such darling girls,
both like sisters to him, and both so sweet and
good as to make him like a brother !  it was the
happiest time of his life ; and his charity
covered even Mr. Branscombe, while his
happiness touched his matutinal employment of
writing in a fair hand, and with accurate
divisions, words of which he knew no more the
ultimate meaning than if they had been modern
Greek or Venetian patois.

But what cold, coarse minds people have !
What a hateful young ass that Bob Penne-father
was when he said to him, Randolph,
one day : " I say, Ran, you'll get to be spoons
on Stella Branscombe if you don't look out ! "

How willingly he would have given the
fellow a caning on the spot for the brutality
of his suspicion and the insolence of putting it
into words ! " Spoons " indeed ! as if one can
be " spoons" on one's sister, one's Star, on the
treasure which one is guarding for one's friend.

' Spoons! " Well, lie would never be " spoons "
on Grip or Pip, so the Pennefathers need not
trouble themselves about him ; and he would
take care to make them understand that,
and give them a wide berth for the future.
Spoons ? " " spoons," on Stella Branscombe ?
Why not on Hortensia as well? The phrase
fretted him like a sore and he could not forget
it. He was a slow kind of creature in most
things, and when he got an idea into his head
he kept it for a long time and bothered himself
more than was in any way necessary.

And then even Mrs. Latrobe, whom else he
liked so much, even she must touch his susceptibilities,
and that with a somewhat cruel hand.
Why did she say to him one day with such
marked significance  "I do not think that
Stella Branscombe will ever love again. She
is one of the single flowering kind  one bloom
and no after blossom " ? Why did she look at
him so fixedly when she said this, and lay such
an odd emphasis on her words ? Of course,
Stella would never love again. He, Randolph,
could not love her as he did if he did not believe
her to be absolutely loyal. Fancy Stella marrying
Jemmy Pennefather or one of the Cowley
boys, or Sandro Kemp, or any other man alive !
It was a desecration to imagine such a thing.

No, she was staunch and loyal to the death ;
and he was her brother, because Cyril was his
friend and had been her lover.

This was the staple of his morning and evening
reflections and orisons while he prowled
round her like a faithful watch dog whose
fidelity was incorruptible and whose watch was
unremitting. Thus the time wore on, and the
four oddly-matched companions kept their respective
bubbles afloat, and their card-houses in
the most admirable appearance of stable equilibrium.


One day Randolph's honest face had an expression
in it of more than ordinary preoccupation.
When he came into the room he looked
at Stella as people do who have something to
tell in private which they do not wish others to
hear in public ; while they betray the existence
of a secret as plainly as if they carried it printed
on a placard. He shuffled and fidgeted, and
turned his eyes so continually on his employer's
daughter that Mr. Branscombe himself noticed
the uncomfortable uneasiness of his grub, and
wondered what the deuce ailed the creature.
Calling Stella to him, and fixing his spectacles
rather low on his nose while he looked at her
critically, his chin well up in the air, he said ina
dry tone :

My dear Stella, what is there about yon today
different from your ordinary usage ? I see
you attract Mr. Randolph's attention to a distracting
extent. Excuse the pun. It was too
obvious to be allowed to slip. What is it, Mr.
Randolph, that you find rare and unusual in
my daughter, hey ? I see nothing."

I am not aware of anything, sir," said Randolph,
colouring like a great girl.

Then may I ask why you gaze so intently
at Miss Branscombe ? " demanded Stella's father,
looking over his glasses at his secretary.

Did I look at her more than usual ? " stammered
Randolph.

I think so," said Mr. Branscombe with
suave severity. " If indeed you see nothing
as you say on which to comment in Miss Brans -
combe's appearance, we will resume our interrupted
occupation. My dear Stella, perhaps
you will be good enough to take this Nocturne
into the drawing-room where you can practise
it more at your ease than here. I and Mr.
Randolph will join you at luncheon. Thus I
give you the whole morning for yourself and
your amusement, free of all but this small duty "
with a curl on his thin lips that cut Stella to
the heart. " By the way," he continued, as his
daughter with a very pale face was taking up

the music ; " perhaps your little friend will give
us the pleasure of her society at luncheon. She
promised yesterday that she would come in her
hat and habit to take a ride  if you should feel
disposed to come. At your own pleasure, of
course. Your pleasure before all other considerations,"
again curling his thin lips.

He had never forgiven Dr. Quigley's interference
in his household affairs, and revenged
on Stella the indignity of which she had been
the occasion.

I shall be delighted, papa," said Stella in a
constrained voice.

She was not only hurt at her dear papa's
sarcastic smile and double-edged words, but she
thought it odd that Hortensia had said nothing
to her yesterday about coming up to luncheon
or going out for a ride  Eandolph on his side
thinking it odd that she had said nothing to
him that morning. But no comment was made ;
and, feeling herself dismissed, Stella went into
the drawing-room to practise the new Nocturne
which was written in three flats and began
with a chord in sharps.

She wondered as she stumbled her way among
these musical tombs of harmony what was amiss
with Randolph to-day ; and then why her
father had got into such an uncomfortable way

of speaking to her. Something, she did not
know what, was changing him towards her ;
some strange mildew of coldness was creeping
over his tone and manner to her ; some vague
barrier of displeasure was slowly arising in his
heart against her. She felt herself in silent
disgrace and as if in some sort shut out from
his affection, ever since Eandolph had been
engaged as his secretary. Yet why ? She loved
him as much as she had always loved him, and
would again, were it necessary, sacrifice her own
happiness for his, as she had already done. She
had done nothing that should have displeased
him. And yet  was she quite whole-hearted in
saying this ?  seeing that she was so undutiful
as to have got tired of her work for him  so
wicked as to have wearied of his art to such an
extent that she could no longer find beauty in
his poetry, melody in his music, or charm in his
pictures. Was this the meaning of it all ? Had
he seen her naughtiness ; and was it then, her
fault, not his, that he was displeased ?

Meanwhile she stumbled over the notes of his
latest Nocturne, while the tears gathered round
her heart, as she hoped, so piteously, that papa
was not turning against her ; for then, what
should she have left ? Papa no longer caring
for her, and Cyril parted from her for ever 

life would be little worth having should the day
ever come when that beloved father should steel
his heart against her and shut her out from his
affections ! And mingled with this piteous
hope was a wish as strong if not so pathetic,
that Hortensia Lyon would not come here so
often, and that she would not get about papa
and flatter him so much when she did come 1
There was something in it all that pained and
revolted her more than she could say. She
did not know why ; but it did. Was it because
she was jealous ?

What a wicked girl indeed she was getting !
How she wished that she had a director who
might give her good counsel and bring back
her straying soul into obedience to the higher
law and the ways of faithful self-sacrifice and
suppression. Yet there was no one to whom
she could open her heart. Brother Eanclolph,
though so good, was so dense in all mental
matters !  he never understood states of feeling.
And Augusta Latrobe, though so sweet, was so
fearfully reasonable ! And Stella wanted someone
who would be as wise as Augusta and as
good as Eandolph, but with more comprehension
of moral difficulties than the one and with
more enthusiasm for high-flying virtue than
the other. In fact she wanted her Mother;

and when she thought of that sweet faithful
guide and love she laid her head down on the
piano and sobbed, as her accompaniment to her
father's soulless Nocturne. And yet she did
not wish her back as-ain. She had beo-un to
understand now something of the hidden secret
of her life.

Merry or sad, the time passes somehow, and
at the luncheon-hour, Hortensia rode up to the
door, equipped for the ride on which she and
her elegant idol had agreed yesterday. It was
against her will, against her better and wiser
self, but Stella could not help being cool rather
than demonstrative to her friend, who, as if to
make up for some secret treachery, was more
than ordinarily caressing and affectionate to
her. Stella felt that she was " an awful wretch,"
as the modern phrase runs ; but it was stronger
than herself. She could not !  and she held
back in an odd, angular, uncomfortable way
which Hortensia took care not to notice. The
relations between the two girls were getting
decidedly strained; but they would last for
some time yet without breaking. Girlish friendships
go through a great deal of strain before
they come to the breaking-point and it takes
a century of quarrels before all the gold embroidery
gets worn off the fabric.

The luncheon however was singularly silent ;
every one was more or less ill at ease and acting
a part, so that the ride came as a decided relief
and the four set off with curious alacrity. They
went for some time all in a line, the two girls
in the middle  Mr. Branscombe by his daughter
and Randolph flanking Hortensia ; but, as
.soon as they had passed through the village,
Mr. Branscombe and Hortensia found themselves
together, leading the way down a narrow lane
where only two could ride abreast. And thus
the "brother and sister" remained together.

"I wanted so much to speak to you, Miss
Stella," Randolph began so soon as they were
alone.

I saw there was something. What is it ? "
she answered eagerly, her heart beating fast
with a strange kind of expectation, as if she
were afraid of some misfortune yet hopeful for
some great gain.

I have had a letter from Cyril," he said.

She looked into his face, her own as white as
the linen band about her throat.

"Yes? What does he say? Is he well?
Is he happy ? Does he tell you anything about
his life and his work ? Does he ask after his
friends at home ? "

She spoke breathlessly, her questions falling
confusedly over each other.

He asks after all at High wood," said Randolph.
" He does not speak much of himself.
Poor old fellow, I do not think he is very
happy. How can he be ? "

Is he well ? " she asked again.

"I suppose so. He says nothing to the
contrary."

Did he tell you what he was doing ? "

Only pig-sticking and looking out for
tiger-shooting."

Oh, that is dangerous ! " she said with a
shudder. " Did he say nothing else ? "

No."

Not how he liked his work ? "

"No."

Did he tell you who were his friends out
there ? "

No ; oh, yes ! the Whites : a Major and
Mrs. White."

Did he speak of any one here ? "

"No."

Not of one of us by name ? "

She asked this in a lowered voice, hating
herself for her want of dignity ; but this too
was stronger than herself.

No," answered Randolph in a lowered voice
and with a terribly distressed face, for he knew
that this was the core of the whole matter ;

and that his negatives hitherto, reducing that
letter as they did to a mere fact shorn of
circumstances, were as nothing compared to
this.

Ah ! he has forgotten us ! He is right ! "
said Stella with irrepressible passion.

But if right, why did she burst into that
tempest of weeping?  a tempest wherein all
pride and reticence were swept away as straws
in a Highland " spate." It was worse than
folly to weep for what was not only natural but
right ! All the same, she did, and as if her
heart would have broken with its pain.

Eandolph's anguish equalled hers. She wept
for Cyril's forgetfulness of the old bonds which
she herself had sundered, and his eyes were
dim because of her distress. But what can
you do when you are on horseback in a narrow
lane ? He was only able to exhort her to quietness
and self-control. He could not take her
to his heart as he longed to do, comforting her
as a brother might. He could only say :
Don't ! don't. Miss Stella ! Please don't cry !
please don't ! " as if hearts can break and piece
themselves together again at will, and a girl
who has made her own unhappiness can turn
her tears on and off like so much bath-water at
her pleasure !

She cried so passionately however, and was
so thoroughly overcome, that Eandolph jumped
off his horse and stopped hers ; then took her
from the saddle and set her on a fallen tree by
the way side. And then he knelt on the hard
and frozen ground before her, and said in a
voice which brought her back to herself by
very surprise of its intensity :

"Do you want to break my heart too, Miss
Stella''

No ; she did not want to break his heart ;
assuredly not ; her good, true, loving brother !
"What should she do without him ? He was all
that she had of her very own now that she had
not Cyril and that the strange mildew of
coldness was creeping over her father's manner
towards her ! No ; she did not want to break
his heart ; and therefore, to avoid this terrible
contingency she controlled herself into the
wise and patient Stella of her normal state ;
dried her eyes  "pulled herself together," ashe
said  and mounting her horse rode off at a
brisk pace to get within reasonable distance of
Mr. Branscombe and Hortensia. But when
they all joined forces again the lids of those
big, blue eyes told Hortensia in unmistakable
language that Stella had been crying  crying
to cousin Eandolph ; and about what ?

The question a little disturbed Mr. Branscombe's
devotee ; perhaps because her own
conscience was not quite so clear as it ought
to have been. She drew away from her idol
and put her horse's head in line with Stella's.

What is the matter, Stella ? You have
been crying," she said with a reproving air.

Girls are always hard on the tears of other
girls ; and though they may do a good deal in
that way themselves, they generally hold themselves
justified in showing the most virtuous
indignation against the like weakness in their
sisters.

Nothing is the matter," said Stella with
evident constraint.

Hortensia was the last person whom she
could take into her confidence in this matter !
Fancy confessing to her that she had cried
bitterly because Cyril Ponsonby had not asked
after his old love by name and with many
questions !

It is not fair to shut me out of your confidence
as you do  not friendly, not what I
deserve," said Hortensia, a little too warmly
perhaps for the living saint for whom she somewhat
posed.

You have no right to reproach me, Hortensia
! You make mysteries and secrets enough

on your own side ! " said Stella with refreshing-indignation.


On this Hortensia turned her horse's head
away in dudgeon, and dropped behind on pretence
of asking cousin Randolph the name of
a book which she had not read and of which
he had never heard.

This strain was certainly increasing, the
strand was getting thinner, the embroidery more
bare, and the hidden split was threatening to
show itself too plainly for future politic ignoring.
When an elderly man, father to the one
and ideal to the other, is the only bond of union
between two girls of the same age, things are
in a bad way ; and the very bond itself makes:
them no better.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XII.

A IEW THREAD. -

Christmas came, and with it the interrupted
innings of that objectionable family which
owned those noisy Doves as its most prominent
members. The two brothers left in England
came down for the vacation, and the Cowley
boys came as well ; the startling costumes devised
and executed in the dark days of autumn
were brought to light and publicity  to the
centralization of certain unfriendly critics of
whom old Mrs. Morshead was the chief; and
the rousing reveille at Sherrardine woke up
Highwood to full and fast activity. Fortunately
the weather continued fair and frosty,
and skating was the order of the day, while
dances and round games, snap-dragon and
charades made the evenings " go '' in such sort
that the fun might be said to overflow at all

four corners. The whole place was astir with
the gaieties of the season ; and the example set
by the family at Sherrardine seemed infectious
and to pass from house to house, like measles
or whooping-cough, in orderly succession.

Even Mr. Branscombe was not proof against
the contagion of this gay epidemic. Having
already greatly relaxed the severity of his
mourning, he relaxed it now still more because
of the season and its claims. He could not, he
said, throw the chill of his gloom over this
joyous time ; and he thought he showed his
devotion to his sainted Matilda best by doing
that which would be most congenial to her
sentiments were she able to direct him viva
voce. His daughter, his dear Stella, must
not be too much shut up. It was touching
and pretty to see her wish for isolation from
the crowd, and her desire for quiet companionship
with him alone. Dear child! she lived
but in his sight ! And of course that would be
his wish also, as it was his sole source of
pleasure ; but he must do violence to himself
that he might do good to her. Therefore, he
and his daughter would accept whatever invitations
were afloat; and they even went to Sherrar-
dine, where naturally one so elegant and artistic
as Mr. Branscombe had no business to go.

But that is the worst of a country society, ho
said, when discussing these things with Hortensia
Lyon. If you go to one place you must
to all, else you make enemies by showing favour.
It was all for his daughter, he repeated  to the
world with bland and painful resignation ; to
Hortensia with an appearance of only half-concealed
chagrin, chagrin very cleverly concealed
and very artfully displayed  all for her pale
cheeks, peaked shoulders, blue-encircled eyes,
and the health which had run down so visibly,
but to which the hidden disease had not yet
given its name.

So it might be. We have no right to look
behind a man's words for his motives ; but for
an unwilling sacrifice, as he made himself out
to be, Mr. Branscombe was certainly what the
Pennefather girls called " awfully jolly, "though
he was so " awfully stilted and humbugging
and affected," as well. Still, he was decidedly
jolly; and any one would have said that he
enjoyed his sacrifice like the rest of them.

All this however, did poor Stella no appreciable
good. Though not apparently so much
depressed, she was just as pale and thin as ever;
and not even a half romping turn at " Sir
Roger de Coverley " did more than bring the
colour into her face for just so long as the

exertion lasted. When her breath came back
the soft pink roses in her cheeks faded into the
normal pallor of her present condition, and she
looked even more fragile and diaphanous than
before. Dr. Quigley was looking after her in
his own way, but silently. He was waiting for
spring-time, and beyond ; waiting until sundry
things should declare themselves more plainly
than at present, before he again took on himself
the unauthorized direction of events. He was
waiting and watching vigilantly ; and for more
things than one. But he took no one into his
confidence, and the revelations conveyed by
those keen eyes and that active brain remained
his own property only, shared and suspected by
none.

Supreme ! " That was Valentine Cowley's
present working word  the traction-engine
which drew the whole verbal load, the camel
which was laden with all the separate straws of
admiration. Everything of which he approved
was " supreme ; " and this Christmas-time Stella
Branscombe, who had always been nice, was
supreme of the supreme. The truth was,
Valentine Cowley had suddenly become a new
man. He had fallen under influences which, ashe
said, had completed his being. To his former
magnificent muscularity and worship of manly

strength he had added a passion for brie china
Queen Anne architecture, Morris's papers, rosette's
poems, Ruskin's prose, half-tones in brie
and green, earnestness in men and tender stillness
in women  with a sublime contempt for
trade, luxury, the doctrine of evolution and the
fourth dimension. He had met a certain man
of mark  one of the leaders of this school -just
as he was casting his boyish mental skin and
becoming more manly and reflective ; just as he
was slipping like a hermit-crab from one intellectual
shell to another, getting tired of play
and casting about for " work " and " his life's
meaning." And this man had cultivated him
on his own lines and made him, intellectually,
a new creature  having, as he said, completed
his being, leaving him his muscles but adding
thereto reverence for art and knowledge of the
true meaning of poetry.

Having thus gone past the point when noisy
hoydens were his chosen chums, Yal had entered
on the higher platform of refinement and idealistic
womanhood, of saints in their sweetness, of
ladies in their grace, even of blossoms tenderly
blighted and delicate to the verge of sickliness.
And Stella, who was just as beautiful now in the
days of her pallor as she had been in those of
her freshness  though beautiful in a different

way, and with more soul about her, said Yal 
seemed to him just the kind of thing that he
liked best of all, and just the person for whose
appreciation nature had fitted him. Grip and
Pip were still awfully jolly and awfully nice ;
the best girls in the world, and with the least
nonsense about them that could be ; but Stella
Branscombe touched a higher level than they
could ever aspire to reach. Grip and Pip were
of the arrested, non-developing class, while for
Stella all manner of spiritual progress might
be expected. And Grip and Pip laughed too
much and too loud, and had eyes far too bright
and bold and wandering for his taste as it stood
now, while Stella's sweet, low, tender tones and
mild, sad, steadfast eyes seemed to him the very
perfection of their kind.

Wherefore, after they had met once on the
ice, and dipped their fingers together into the
blazing brandy of snap-dragon, and laughed at
the ghastliness gathered round the blue light
made of the salt so liberally ladled in  after
they had waltzed till they were tired, and acted
lovers in a charade  Yalentine pronounced her
supreme ; " and made George Pennefather
free of his verdict.

To which George, laughing as if it were a
small battery of guns fired off in salute, said

in a shrill voice : " Why, Yal ! are you going
to be one of those duffers who go in for washed-out
faces and sentimental voices ? I thought
you had more nous in you than that ! Stella
Branscombe is all very well in her way ; but
her way was never too much of a good thing,
and now it is less so than ever. I would as
soon make love to a ghost at once, if I were a
man, as to her. I don't know indeed but
that the ghost would be the better fun of the
two ! "

You incorrigible young person ! " said
Yalentine, his gaiety a little forced.

And you incomprehensible individual ! "
retorted George, her rattling laugh as little
really spontaneous as his smile.

A little off-room at Sherrardine opened on to
the drawing-room, where, at this moment,
dancing was going on. Grip and Pip always
called it, in their audacious way : " The 
; " and held themselves free to rally
any one who might be found therein, and to
assume whatever they chose beyond the patent
fact of occupancy. Dancing being to Yalentine,
in his new character of pre-Eaffaelite enthusiast,
a rather vulgar and decidedly unpoetic exercise,
and Stella being tired, the two were sitting
quietly in a corner playing at " spillikins "  nota

very intellectual game  where Stella was
perpetually keeping Valentine from committing
suicide by toying with the " trident " when too
much involved, or for the ' pipe " when certain
to shake.

Since she had got over the first pain of
Cyril's letter to Randolph  reading his silence
as renunciation even of her memory  Stella
had honestly and heroically done her best to
live down her pain and to be in all things like
other girls. So long as it had been a mutual
heart-break between her and her lost Love she
had carried her sorrow as her flag of fealty ;
but now when she believed herself if not
absolutely forgotten  who can really forget ? 
yet resolutely set aside, she determined to bury
that sorrow deep in her own breast, and even
to do her best to make herself forget that she
had other cause for active grief than that,
sufficiently heavy in itself, of her dear mother's
death. She knew that, for her own part, she
should love Cyril all her life, and love him only.
No other affection would ever take the place of
this which she had worn as her glory and now
bore as her cross. But she would not go about
the world as a love-lorn damsel, wearing the
willow and bidding for sympathy. She would
be no Blighted Being whom the gentle would

pity and the cynical deride. And now that papa
had thought it good for her to go again into
society, she would go like any one else and
force herself, at least to appear to take interest
in all that went on  though she had no more
real pleasure therein, and derived no more moral
sustenance therefrom, than does the starving
man when the typical stone is tossed into his
lap for head. Good-natured she had always
been ; ever ready to play chess with beginners
or draughts with children ; to rattle off waltzes
or quadrilles for others to dance to ; or to count
her marriages in beside and her points in
piquet with the stupid and the old. But now
she was even more good-natured and more
helpful than before, if that were possible.
Whenever any one was wanted to do a kind
turn to others, or to do what was unpleasant to
herself, Stella Branscombe came to the front and
took up all the little social parcels in a row,
shouldering them without a murmur. If a bore
had to be got out of the way, Stella took him
on her own hands and off the necks of the rest ;
if there were too many in a set, and some one
had to give up, Stella was that some one ; if an
uncomfortable bit of duty had to be done in the
parish, Stella was asked to do it, and she always
did what she was asked. Youno- as she was,

she was getting to hold that impersonal kind of
place which belongs to the " altruistic " nature,
to be a kind of youthful social fairy godmother,
to whom all came for help in moments of need,
and from whom no one was turned away unsatisfied.


Still, she felt that beyond all this she had to
find some more absorbing occupation than even
social altruism gave her  something that should
make her quite forget her own trouble in the
activity of serious well-doing. Helping papa
had failed to console her. She never quite understood
why, but she knew that it had ; and she
did not feel as if being a kind of drawing-room
fairy godmother was the exact ultimate of her
aspirations or abilities. But all this was by the
bye. What she had to do in the immediate present
was to make herself generally useful and
universally amiable ; to thrust Cyril deep, deep
into the recesses of her thoughts, as far in the
background as was possible ; and to forget
herself all round. And she fulfilled her self-imposed
task to the letter.

Over his spillikins, which served as a
pretence, Valentine fixed his dark eyes on the
sweet fair face before him bending over the
table with all Stella Branscombe's sincerity of
interest in the thing on hand. He looked at

her long and ardently, then suddenly, without
preface or warning, he asked in a soft
sentimental kind of way :

Tell me. Miss Branscombe, what is your
ideal of life?"

Stella who had never gone into abstruse
questions of this kind, even under her father's
frothy tuition, looked up with a puzzled face,
and then said :

What do you mean ? "

Your ideal of life," repeated Yalentine, as if
repetition were explanation, and a puzzle said
twice over gave its own key in the echo.

I do not know that I have any," she said ina
pretty hesitating way, feeling dreadfully dense
and silly. " I have never thought of it. I
suppose we ought to do what good we can  to
be as useful to others and as sincere to ourselves
as is possible. I cannot give any other answer.
What is your ideal ? Then I shall know better
what you mean by your question."

Mine ? " returned Yalentine. " My ideal of
life is Earnestness  the worship of the tender
and the beautiful, the bringing of religiousness
and spirituality into our daily doings like dear
old George Herbert  striving after the better
way through the culture of poetry by means of
love and art."

An odd little movement of repulsion passed
almost like a shudder over Stella.

I do not think I care much for poetry," she
said naively. " I think I like something more
practical."

'' Oh ! " he said in aggrieved tone ; " and you
look the very soul of poetry in your own
person ! You not care for poetry, when you
are made to he a man's muse, to inspire his
loftiest thoughts, his noblest aspirations ? "

I sincerely hope not," said Stella with
curious gravity. " I do not think that is my
function at all."

No. What then ? Where does your great
gift of influence lie ? " he asked eagerly.

He had made a bad shot bv his first o-uess,
but. Supreme as she was, he must know in what
censer he might burn his incense and by what
liturgy intone his devotions.

"I am so matter-of-fact," she said, as if
accusing herself of a fault. '' I care so much
more for realities than for all this kind of thing,
as I just said. I would care to do good to the
poor, to help the sorrowful, to nurse the sick 
anything of that kind  so much more than
to write poetry, or even inspire it."

'' You might still be practical, yet inspire the
poet, and with his loftiest themes ! " answered

Yalentine warmly. "The gracious Ladies of
the past  the sweet chatelames who walked in
their gardens and sat in their bowers  bore also
the castle-keys at their girdles, and were servers
of bread and leeches in their degree. The
Lady of La Garaye was the Lady Bountiful of
whom you paint the outlines so delicately, so
deliciously."

But I do not think I should ever care to
inspire a poet at all," persisted Stella. " A man
ought to lead such a much freer and healthier
and such a much more practical life than poets
and artists do. To me, health and strength
and energy are such grand things ! "

In man perhaps, not in woman," said
Yalentine in his sentimental craze for want
of haematine and for relaxed fibre. " A woman
should be a dainty, tender, delicate creature, all
soul and spirit  a low-voiced, sweet-faced, fragile
saint, to be taken care of by her husband to
whom she should be at once his guardian angel
and his charge. Her pure counsels should be
his fount of inspiration and the guidance of his
life, while his strength should give her service
and protection."

Stella looked at her companion with frank
surprise. She forgot even the " thirty " trident,
at which she had been so delicately working.

and which was one of the great prizes of their
odd little game.

You say all this ? " she said. " I thought
you cared only for fun and gaiety, and that
what you liked best in woman was good-humour
and high spirits and all that kind of thing 
girls who could walk and ride and row, and
were never tired and never sad, and whose
whole lives were just like so much dance-music."


No, a thousand times no ! " answered Valentine
with strange energy. " Women of that
kind are good to laugh with, I grant. They are
first-rate fun and capital fellows all through ;
but the Supreme to idealize and idolize is of a
very different type. My ideal would be a girl,
pale, slender, gentle, fair, reminding one of a
lily that had been a little bowed under the
weight of a passing storm ; of a blush-rose,
surcharged with the tears of the morning ; of a
saintly martyr floating in the still lake, her
hair spread out like an aureole about her ; of all
things tender and soft and plaintive, to whom
I should minister  she demanding care because
of her sublime weakness, and I, strong and
reverent, proud to give her on my knees the
service of my life. That is my ideal woman ;
and I would give her your form and features."

"Would you?" said Stella, with the most
simple, the most sincere amazement-how
odd ! "

Nothing being farther from her thoughts
than loving, nothing was farther from her perceptions
than being made love to. And if anyone
had told her that this was Yalentine
Cowley's method of making love she would
have thought her informant was dreaming, or
perhaps wilfully trying to deceive her.

At this moment, and before Yalentine could
answer, the music ceased in the drawing-room,
and Eandolph Mackenzie came lumbering
through the doorway, bringing Grip on his arm.
In their quality of hostesses she and Pip were
looking after laggards and beating up partners
for the next dance. Immediately behind these
two came in Pip with Mil  more constant to
the original type than his elder brother had
shown himself to be. But then he was three
years younger ; he had not the steadying prospect
of future inheritance and family headship
to put a little moral ballast into him ; and he
had not yielded to the influences of Albert
Jones and the love of blue china. He was still
in the era of tomboys and fun. There were no
flaws in the Pennefather pottery for him ; he
saw no beauty in saints destitute of haematine

and with fibres all relaxed ; and poetry was
simple bosh, when not an uglier word still.
His brother's new vein of sentimentality surprised
him as much as it surprised the Doves,
but he supposed he would work out of it again.
If he did not, he was a good fellow spoilt, said
Mil ; and he wondered how he could be such a
duffer as to be taken in by one who himself was
nothing but a duffer all round. However that
was his own affair, and if he liked it, let him
go the pace till he got tired! Just now he
seemed to be going the pace at a hand-gallop,
to judge by his face, which was the first thing
they saw as the four came surging through the
doorway, Randolph and Grip leading.

I say, you pair of spoons ! " shouted Grip ;
what are you doing here, when you ought to
be doing your duty by Augusta Latrobe, who
has been playing for us like an angel ? What's
the use of you both if you don't dance when
you should ? Spooning-time never comes till
after supper ! "

One cannot be always dancing, Gip ! " said
Valentine a shade testily. " And Miss Branscombe
was tired."

Then Miss Branscombe might be content
to be tired for herself, without carrying off one
of our partners to keep her company ! " said

VOL. II. R

Gip with a grimace. " There's Hortensia Lyon
been sitting out and little Lucy Grey and half
a dozen other girls ; and here are you carrying
on over spillikins instead of doing your duty
like a man ! England expects every man to do
his duty. Do you know that, Mr. Yal ! We
don't allow laggards at Sherrardine ! "

She laughed when she said this, just in her
usual boisterous and extensive way ; but her
eyes were painfully bright and her laugh unmusically
hard. .

Valentine changed colour, and for a moment
looked as if he were going to be angry. He
seemed to think better of it however, and put on
the most amiable face at his command.

All right, Gip ! I v/ill do my duty next
time like a man," he laughed ; " and you shall
be my Britannia ! "

And at this they all laughed, as at an exquisite
joke ; all save Eandolph Mackenzie, who
looked like a man standing at the bar of the
Old Bailey waiting for his sentence, and Stella,
who wished that she was not so obtuse and
could understand the fun which amused others
so much. But the spell was broken for Valentine,
the charm flown for the evening. He
felt something like an enchanted prince who
had been permitted to come out of that rough-skinned

husk in which he was enclosed, and
appear as a lovely young man for a moment ;
but who must now go back to his mask and his
hide, and be once more the mere kitchen scrub,
if not the Beast of his daily appearance. He
was no longer Yalentine the poetic adorer
of the ideal, but Yal, the chosen chum of a
noisy, wild and somewhat vulgar tomboy to
whose " business " he had to play, keeping in
the same line as hers and with the like method.
The two sitting at the little table got up, and
all six went into the drawing-room where Stella
undertook to play the next set of quadrilles,
and Randolph said he would turn over the
leaves of her music-book. Colonel Moneypenny
had just been doing the like office for Mrs.
Latrobe, though indeed she had scarcely needed
his assistance, seeing that her waltz had occupied
only one page and there were no leaves to
turn. But as suddenly as Yalentine Cowley's
declaration of his ideal to Stella Branscombe 
as much without preface or warning  the
Colonel had abandoned his displeased attitude
towards the fair-faced widow, and to-night had
devoted himself to her as if no shadow of coolness
had been between them. And, as taking
no notice and letting things slide were the
main points of Augusta's philosophy, she had

accepted his attentions with the most delightful
and sweet-tempered forgiveness of past rudeness,
and never seemed to remember that to-day had
had a yesterday or might have a tomorrow.

Hortensia was sitting between her father and
Mr. Branscombe, a meek and self-denying little
Puritan, preferring quietness and lofty converse
to all this loud and mindless gaiety. And even
when a whist-table was formed, she went off
with the elders, better pleased to watch a game
of which she knew neither the rules nor the
value of the cards, but where Mr. Branscombe
was an authority, than to take part in
the fun going on among the rest. With all
these odd little kinks however, the rose-coloured
thread of mirth and merriment ran on the
whole smooth and straight ; and only Randolph
kept a saddened face, feeling as if his
heart had leaden weights which dragged it
down and made it heavy. Gip, who had got
back her old playfellow, was as bright as it
was her nature to be ; and Pip, who had had
no such twitch as had made her sister feel as
if things had gone very crooked somehow
within the last half-hour, was all that Pip
ever was. Thus the evening passed in an
apparent cloud of silver and gold floating over
a sky all of blue and rose colour ; and only

when all the guests had gone and the two
Doves were safe in their own rooms with each
other was the secret displayed.

I' say, Patrick," began her sister, as she
brushed her fine hair with vigour ; '' what did
you think of Yal and Stella to-night? Is ita
case ? Looks like it, doesn't it ? "

Yes, I think he's awful nuts on her ; I do
indeed, George," said Pip gravely.

There was silence for a few moments.

Those horrid quiet sly girls ! " burst out
Gip with strange passion. " They carry everything
off and pretend they don't want to. Of
all things in the world, I hate most a quiet
flirt ; and I am sure Stella Branscombe is a
quiet flirt  I am sure of it from to-night."

So I think, too, George ; nasty mean thing,"
said Pip with energy. '' Why cannot she be
honest and above-board ?  and why cannot she
keep to her own spoons ? We didn't interfere
with Cyril when he was humbugging about ;
and we don't want that long lout of a Ran, who
is as much in love with her as he can be. She
might leave Yal and Mil to us instead of
coming in with her sly ways and spoiling all
our fun. They'll be no good to any one if they
get spoons on a girl ; and that's what will bethe
end, if things go on like this ! "

It is too bad of her ! " returned Gip. " Girls
who poach on other girls' manors deserve to
he shot!"

Which was a tolerably strong sentiment for
rattling George Pennefather, she whose good-humour
was as proverbial as her fastness, and
whose amiability and vulgarity were held to be
in equal measure one with the other. But
when the jade winces does it not show that
she is galled ?

CHAPTER XIII.

ox GUARD.

The new thread laid on the night of that little
dance at Sherrardine was not suffered to lose itself
in confused tangles, and knots which fastened
nothing. It was very evident to Valentine
Cowley that Stella's soul was not made in the
way in which he held souls should go ; and he
set himself to the task of moulding that delicate
particle according to his own ideas. It seemed
to him also that it would be the most delightful
thing in the world to have Stella Branscombe
as his own private and particular friend  Its
soul's sister  whom he could love without fear
and worship without stint, while being to her
the spiritual Prometheus whom she in her turn
would love and worship. Like all the world he
knew that she and Cyril Ponsonby had been
engaged ; and, also like all the world, he could

see for himself how much she had suffered
through the cancelling of that engagement 
the reason being as patent as the fact. And
this little drama, wherein the girl had played so
sad and sweet a part, filled him with the most
intense desire to make up for the loss of her
lover by the gift of a spiritual brother  a handsome,
strong and muscular young Prometheus
who would make her soul and comfort her
heart.

Acting then with this ever in view, Valentine
soon made himself conspicuous by the exclusive
devotion which he paid to Stella Branscombe
when they met in public  which was
often  and by the headlong manner in which
he conducted his spiritual husbandry. He had
ingratiated himself to a marvellous extent with
Mr. Branscombe, who professed to find in him
the Ideal Youth  Adonis in boating flannels
and Anxious in cricket costume. Just such
another as he himself had been at the same age,
he used to say when discussing the young heir
to the Cowley estates  handsome, well-born,
strong and intellectual, all in one  an athlete,
a poet and a modern English gentleman complete.
Yes ; Mr. Yalentine Cowley was just
such another as he himself had been and as he
would have desired his son should have been,

had fortune been kind enough to present him
with an heir. And feeling for the young fellow
as he did, he encouraged  him to come to Eose
Hill as often as he wished ; though, strangely
enough when he did come he was for the most
part relegated to the care of Stella unassisted,
whose soul he might make without interruption
while Mr. Branscombe devoted himself to Hortensia
or his Muse, as things might chance.
When it was to his Muse the poor grub had a
bad time of it ; for, with a mind fixed on that
spiritual husbandman, who to him was nothing-more
nor less than a poacher, Randolph was
not quite up to his usual mark of mechanical
accuracy ; and Prosperous elegant ferule was
both sharp and heavy.

Highwood began to talk, as of course was to
be expected ; and to laugh in its witless sleeve
at the weak-backed theory of maiden constancy
and broken hearts. Stella Branscombe had
made fuss enough about her disappointment,
they said ; meaning that her health had run
down and that her face had grown pale and
thin ; but now they all wagered  some of them
their heads and others sixpences  she would
pick up again and be quite herself before another
month was out ! One nail would drive out
another in the approved way tested by centuries,

they said with the cruel sneer of people who-speak
at random, applying general principles
like quack blisters without stopping to inquire
into symptoms or to search into causes.

This little sop of gossip came at a time of
dearth in " ducks ; " and the affair between
Cyril's lost love and Gip's favourite chum began
to be discussed as a foregone conclusion and
evident arrangement, according to the way of
people who are on low diet in the matter of
their neighbour's doings. The only gossipers
who scouted the idea of any grave meaning in
all this attention were the Doves themselves ;
and they maintained that there was no more in
it than there was in the man in the moon. Yal
thought no more of Stella Branscombe than he
did of any other good-looking girl  only she
was not so good-looking after all, and had gone
off no end of late ! She was fairly nice to talk
to, and not such a stupid as to think every man
*' gone " who spoke to her ; and of course Yal
liked to talk to her. But there was no more in
it than this.

All this they said in public in the loudest and
clearest voices and with the wildest cascades of
laughter ; but in private, between themselves,
they struck another note and declined the useless
trouble of trying to deceive each other.

During this time of her playfellow's secession
Gip had enough to do to hold up her head,
square her shoulders and make-believe not to
mind, as a brave girl should. She had also
enough to do to refrain from girding at Yal for
his inconstancy and twitting Stella for her slyness.
But she did. She had a certain amount
of maidenly pride for all her wildness, and
carried her fox like a Spartan  Pip alone knowing
what she hid beneath her cloak.

Eandolph Mackenzie on his side was made
miserable by this sentimental fancy of Yal's.
The guard which hitherto had been provisional
became now a fact and an anxious charge. Had
Stella been Cyril's portable and saleable property,
given into his safe keeping till called for,
and had Valentine Cowley been a burglar with
skeleton keys and a dark lantern, Eandolph
could not have been more constant in his attendance
; more vigilant in his character of preventive
officer and private detective ; more
watchful against dangerous chances and advantages
gained by boldness on the one side and
granted by negligence on the other. Under
the pressure of the moment the young fellow
developed a keenness of perception, a craftiness
of policy worthy of Machiavelli himself. He
was ubiquitous and always ready; always armed

at all points and prepared for every emergency.
Yal Cowley was ubiquitous too ; so that between
the two Stella was well provided with cavaliers,
and she at least had no reason to complain  as
George Pennefather said with two burning
cheeks and flashing eyes, and a jerky little toss
of her curly head. Manifestations of feeling
which struck Stella as odd, to say the least of it,
and such as she could not quite understand.

Neither could she understand how it was that
she and her father were so-almost entirely separated
of late. From having kept her so close a
prisoner in the studio, and so continually at
work, in the first months after her dear mother's
death, he had now not only ceased to desire her
presence but was often even actively annoyed
when she entered the Temple of the Muses 
unless she brought Hortensia Lyon in her hand.
He and his grub seemed to get on together in
perfect harmony ; and ever since Mr. Branscombe
had written a little poem called " My
Caliban," and Randolph had not seemed to seethe
personal application, Prospero had forgiven
his mooncalf, having worked off his ill-humour
against him according to the method of poets in
general. And as, moreover, the little devotee
supplied the necessary stimulus of flattery and
applause, the mechanical perfection of Caliban

was all that he desired. Thus Stella was one too
many in the Temple, save in her quality as the
assigned cause for Hortensia's daily presence ;
and Mr. Branscombe was not sorry when Valentine
Cowley came to the front as a possible future
aspirant and present lightened of so much dead-weight
of duty. The education of Hortensia
Lyon's extremely interesting mind and sympathetic
nature, was, according to him, the work
given him by Divine Providence at this moment
; and as a devout believer in Direction he
devoted himself with zeal to the task assigned
him.

Helped by her father, Valentine Cowley was
ever with Stella. In riding he was on one
side of her if Eandolph was on the other. In
skating she somehow found herself ever between,
these two, each as careful of her as if she had
been a costly piece of Salviati glass insufficiently
packed. In the evening Val danced twice with
her for once with any one else ; and when she
sat out or played for the rest he generally found
himself sitting out too, turning over the pages
of the music-book at the wrong places, or discoursing
in modern terms on the supreme beauty
of quietness and the precious eloquence of silence.
Yet go where he would and do what he would 
the lumbering form of Eandolph Mackenzie

ever obtruded itself like a huge iceberg between
him and the sun, cooling his blood by the very-force
of propinquity, and making him more
angry than he dared to confess or could wholly
conceal. All the people talked, and even the
more sensible among them assumed the truth
of things whereof this was only the appearance ;
and the " duck " flew up to The Laurels and
Mrs. Morshead, as all such ducks always did.

How that terrible old woman sitting like
Bunyan's Pope and Pagan in her easy-chair
and never stirring from her home, got to know
everything that was going on in the place was
a standing marvel to all. But it was a fact if a
wonder ; and far from being behind the rest
The Laurels was a kind of well-head of local
gossip ; and old Mrs. Morshead was the nursing
mother of all the little ducks which flew.

There was something in this report of
Yalentine Cowley's approaching if not completed
engagement with Stella Branscombe that roused
Mrs. Morshead's curiosity to its extremest point.
She questioned Augusta closely and did her
best to draw her ; but she drew blank ; as she
always did on such matters. The fair-faced
widow had none of that love of gossip and
keenness in ill-natured criticism which are such
strong characteristics in women, and she

preferred '* not to know " rather than to help inlaying
the trail and setting on the hounds.
She preferred too, the scolding which her
ignorance was sure to hiring down on her head
to the consciousness that she had done an
unoffending neighbour a bad turn and thrown
another brand into a burning house.

You are the most uninteresting girl I ever
saw," said Mrs. Morshead pettishly, when
Augusta, looking candid and ignorant, had
effectually stopped her mother's curiosity and
rendered her questions of no avail by answering :
"No ; she knew nothing ; had heard nothing ;
seen nothing ; suspected nothing ; and did not
think there was anything for any one to know''
" You might be a hodie-crow for all that you
see and hear. You have no more sense than a
blind puppy ; I declare you have not ! "

The mistress of The Laurels was a vulgar old
creature for all her grand proprietorship and
that stake in the county of which she was so
proud. Like many ancient dames of good
family in country places, she affected a certain
breadth of provincialism and bygone fashions
which passed for local patriotism and made her
like a superior kind of peasant.

I am very sorry, mamma," said Augusta
quietly ; " but you know of old that I never

gossip. I am the last to hear of anything that is
groins: on, for I never ask and no one tells me."

A burnt child dreads the fire," said Mrs.
Morshead grimly. " Your very careful and
very good-natured people have generally too
much of the glass-house about them to please
me. I don't wonder that you don't gossip,
Augusta, as you call it. Perhaps in your place
I should be as careful as you are. But then
you see I have nothing to be afraid of; and
people may throw stones at me as much as they
like. I have no windows of my own that they
can break," she added significantly.

No, you have not," assented Augusta with
matter-of-fact serenity.

Mrs. Morshead twitched her shawl ; her sure
sign of annoyance.

I wish to my heart I could say so much for
my daughter," she said with a curious kind of
snap. ' If you had followed in the footsteps
of your mother, Augusta, things would have
been very different from what they are."

The widow made no answer. What indeed,
could she say ? Had she objected, defended
herself, pushed her mother to explain her
meaning and then demanded proof of what she
would have said, there would have been a
quarrel and one of those wordy tempests which

it was the great aim of Augusta's home-life to
avoid. It was so far easier to sHp under the
harrow than to try and force those cruel teeth
to take another direction, or to go back on their
line and cover up its traces ! Wherefore she
kept silence now, as always, when her mother
hung about the wild-fire of these unjust
accusations ; and at this moment, as her own
ill-luck would have it, Stella Branscombe came
into the room. Her visits had become somewhat
less rare of late, since her father had
given her more liberty and had taken off the
interdict laid on Augusta. They were by no
means frequent even now ; partly because Stella
was afraid of Mrs. Morshead, and partly because
she did not care to appear as if she took a
greedy advantage of her comparative freedom ;
still, they were not quite so few and far
between as they had been dur ing the late
summer and autumn.

You here alone ? " said Mrs. Morshead asher
greeting, lifting up her heavy old grizzled
eyebrows as Stella entered.

Yes," said Stella ; " papa was busy."

And you come without your shadow ? " the
old woman said, repeating her movement of
surprise.

Stella smiled in a pretty, perplexed, uncertain

VOL. II. S

way, and looked from the mother to the
daughter.

Who is my shadow, Mrs. Morshead ? " she
asked, still smiling.

Oh, I forgot ; you have two  or perhaps I
should say two and a half," answered Mrs.
Morshead. " That young mountebank Valentine
Cowley ; that great lout Eandolph Mac-kenzie
; and that affected little piece of goods,
Hortensia Lyon. She is your half  the other
half of her belongs, by all accounts, to your
father."

Mrs. Morshead said this in her grimmest
way, and looked at Stella to see how she took
the blow.

' At least I am richer than poor Peter
Schlegel," said Stella good-temperedly. "He
had none, and you say that I have three ! "

Two too many, young lady," said Mrs.
Morshead sharply. " Young ladies should not
let themselves get talked about."

Am I talked about ? " asked Stella, in her
turn lifting up her eyebrows  her surprise a
little more genuine than Mrs. Morshead 's had
been.

You need scarcely ask such a simile
question as that ! " said the old woman, even
more sharply than before. "A young lady

who is never seen without two young men
tacked to her skirts is sure to be talked about !
What else can she expect ? Do you think
people are blind or dumb ? "

' They may save themselves the trouble of
talking about me ! " said Stella with a flash of
indignation. " People must indeed be badly off
for subjects of conversation, to choose me ! ''

I suppose you do as well as any one else ? "
retorted Mrs. Morshead. " Do you think you
are sacred  not to be touched or looked at 
tabooed, like a South Sea Island idol ? Neither
you nor any one else ; and so I tell you ! From
the Queen on her throne to the kitchen-maid in
the scullery, every woman gets talked about,
more or less ; only some who are imprudent a
great deal more than less. And that will be
your fate, miss Stella Branscombe, if you don't
look sharp and are not more careful than you
are!"

Oh, Mrs. Morshead ! " cried Stella.

Well' oh, Mrs. Morshead,' and what
then?" said the mistress of The Laurels with
gruff irony. '' Saying, ' oh, Mrs. Morshead,'
and getting as red as a peony won't help
matters when a friend is kind enough to tell
you the truth. A motherless girl as you are,
you should be grateful to any one who will take

the trouble of trying to put you in the right
way, and not set yourself against them when
they are doing what they can to be of use to

you."

I did not mean to set myself against you,"
said Stella quietly ; but the terrible old woman
was in an atrociously bad temper to-day and
not to be mollified by any process known to
humanity.

Whether you meant it or not, you did it,"
she said crossly. " And I speak only for your
good and because I respected your poor dear
mother who is dead and gone, and who would
have been the first to have objected to such
goings on. And I am a mother myself," she
added, as if giving a piece of news that clinched
the argument.

I am sure I am very much obliged to you
for your good intention," was Stella's meek
reply ; and then Augusta cutting in with :
Where are you going, Stella ? shall Tony and
I come with you ? " the conversation turned off
at a sharp angle by Mrs. Morshead refusing to
allow her daughter to go out at all  such a cold
day as it was  enough to freeze that poor, dear
little child to the very marrow ! But Augusta
never thought of her boy, poor fellow ! If she
wanted to do anything that would give herself

pleasure, that poor, dear, little delicate creature
might he scorched to a cinder or frozen to death
for anything she cared. She was as strong asa
horse herself, and did not seem able to understand
that a young child needed care and
attention. It was a ridiculous day for anyone
to be out in ; and if Stella Branscombe
took her advice she would go straight home at
once, and make herself comfortable by her own
warm fireside. What did she want with
prancing about like this in a frost and cold
enough to kill a cart-horse ? Such folly ! She,
Mrs. Morshead, hated all this gadding about.
Why could not people stay quietly at home ?
It was the best place for them. But well !
there ! she was an old-fashioned woman, born
and brought up in a time when women were
women and home was home, and the world
had not gone mad after pleasure and gadding as
it had now.

I have promised to meet papa at Derwent
Lodge. We are all going to the Broads," said
Stella, as if apologizing for not obeying the
terrible old woman on the spot.

Oh ! " said Mrs. Morshead dryly. '' I
thought you said your dear papa was too busy
to call here with you to-day ? "

 Yes, when I came out he was," answered

the girl innocently. "But he said he would
be ready in half an hour and then I was to
meet him. I do wish Augusta would come
too ! " she added, returning to the charge with
a pretty coaxing kind of persistence that would
have won any heart but Mrs. Morshead's. " It
is really a beautiful day when you are out,
Mrs. Morshead, and not nearly so cold as it is
in the house. There is no wind, and the sun
is really quite warm ! "

"Oh, of course !  of course it is!" Mrs. Mors-head
answered. " A frosty day in January,
with the hills all covered with snow and the
thermometer below zero, is quite mild and
genial. We all know that when young ladies
want to shut the house-door behind them. You
can go if you like, Augusta, of course. You
are not in prison in your mother's house ; and
you can take that poor dear child with you, if
you like. You are his mother, and must do
as you think best. But if he has croup or
inflammation of the lungs to-night, do not
blame me and do not ask me to sit up with
him  that is all ! "

I think I will take the chance for the sake
of the good the run will do him," said the
widow cheerfully ; and Mrs. Morshead, on this,
gave an angry kind of grunt, and twitched her

shawl with so much energy that she tore the
border and somehow made it out to be Augusta's
fault.

But as everything was somehow Augusta's
fault, when the lines of life at The Laurels ran
crosswise, one sin, more or less, did not much
signify in the sum total of the year. And after
her daughter had expressed her sorrow at this
misfortune, had offered to mend the rent tonight
and been severely scolded for her meddlesome
disposition, the two young women went
upstairs to Augusta's room, while she dressed
herself and the child for their walk and kept
laudable and unfeminine silence on the skeleton
of the house below.

The only sign given by the young widow of
having endured anything unpleasant was a
quick little sigh as she shut the door of her
bedroom, and a sudden turn to Stella, whom
she kissed.

How good of you to come for me to-day,
darling ! " she said with a smile which seemed
less to express pleasure than to mask pain. " I
was just longing for some fresh air when you
came in ; but my mother is in one of her most
uncomfortable states to-day, and I do not think
I should have o't leave to <j:o out had you not
called and carried me off."

I am so glad I came," said Stella.

And neither said anything more. They
were getting to that pass of intimacy when
they understood without the need of explanation.


CHAPTER Xii.

Plain TRUTHS.

** And yet, Stella dearie, mamma is right 
people are talking about you and Yalentine
Cowley."

Augusta said this when they had got well
out of the grounds of The Laurels. She spoke
abruptly, suddenly interrupting the silence that
had fallen between the two since they left the
house.

' Oh, Augusta, how can you be so cruel ? "
said Stella, startled as if out of a sleep.

What Mrs. Morshead might choose to say
was only a pin-prick of no more value than
the mere momentary irritation ; what Augusta
said was of a very different character and had
to be taken as serious and important.

No, I am not cruel ; I am only telling you
what you ought to know," returned Augusta.

To mamma, of course, I admitted nothing ; but
there can be no concealment between you and
me. So I tell you the truth; and this is the
truth  jDCople are talking."

But what are they saying ? " cried Stella,
her face on fire yet with something of terror
in it too. But in general, terror blanches, not
flushes.

'' That you are engaged to be married to
Yalentine Cowley," returned Augusta as tranquilly
as she would have said : " Your hat is
not straight," or " a hair-pin is coming out."

What dreadful nonsense ! He has never
said a word to me ! He cares no more for me
than he does for Hortensia Lyon, and not half
so much as for George Pennefather."

Stella said this with an indignant rush, as
if her mere assertion were proof sufficient for
all rational persons.

As for that I think you are mistaken," said
the widow quietly. " From what I have seen
I am quite sure that Valentine Cowley is only
biding his time and seeing Avhat his chances
are likely to be before he makes you an offer.
Every one thinks this who does not think you
already engaged," she added, looking at her
companion.

Augusta ! "

Stella could say no more. This information
came upon her with something more than
surprise  with a feeling of sacrilege to Cyril's
memory, of disloyalty to the past that was
almost unendurable. She felt fallen from her
place of pride in her purity, and guilty of some
nameless sin. She must have been to blame
to make it possible for people to say such dreadful
things. She must have done something
wrong. And yet she had been innocent in her
guilt. She had not known when or where she
had sinned.

He seems to be a very nice fellow'' said
Augusta, after she had given her poor friend a
little time to recover herself.

She was being horridly cruel ; that she knew
and confessed ; but love is sometimes cruel to
be kind in the end, and when an operation had
to be performed the most humane surgeon is
he who does it with most determination. It
was for Stella's good ; and she must bear the
smart for the sake of the future healing.

He seems to be immensely improved this
year ; don't you think so ? " continued Augusta.

I have not thought much about him in anyway,"
answered Stella with a little film of
sulkiness in her manner, the result of choking
back her natural inclination to cry.

Had she obeyed that natural inclination she
would have sat down on the frozen snow by
the road-side, and would there have given way
to those tears which help women so wonderfully
in their sorrow. Not being able to do this she
battled with her weakness and overcame it sofar
as to answer rationally enough, but with
just a shade of temper as her protest.

I think he has  immensely," continued
Augusta, seeing and not heeding. " I think
him one of the handsomest young men I have
ever seen."

Do you ? " said Stella with indifference,
seeing that she was expected to say something.

Don't you ? " returned Augusta.

'' I have not thought about it," repeated the
girl.

You dear little bat, you must be blind !
He is splendid ! " said Augusta enthusiastically.
And he will be very rich when his father dies.
He is the eldest, is he not ? "

Yes ; he is the eldest," said Stella.

And his people are very wealthy, are they
not ? "

I believe so ; but I know nothing more
than you do, Augusta ! " with a decided accent
of impatience. " How should I possibly know
more of the Cowleyss than any one else does ?

If you want to learn all about them why do
you not ask the Pennefathers instead of me ? "

The widow glanced sideways at the girl.
Was craft or boldness the best game to play
with her?  careful stalking or a sweeping
drive ? There were so few points in her
character of what Augusta would have called
reasonableness, and perhaps what others might
have said was worldliness, by which she could
be moved to her own advantage  she allowed
herself to be so completely dominated by that
troublesome and inconvenient conscience backed
up by her affections and her romantic ideas
about constancy and the like  that it seemed
almost hopeless to try and influence her to her
own good. Yet  if she could be swayed ; what
a grand thing it would be for her !

I wish, Stella, my darling, that you "

The widow stopped. Should she spoil all by
a premature direction ?

That I, what ? " asked Stella without
curiosity.

'that you could like Yalentine Cowley and
marry him ! " said Augusta with the feeling-that
now she had done it !

Augusta ! "

Stella turned away with a gesture of frank
abhorrence.

*' Now you are not to be angry with me. I
love you dearly, and I want only your happiness,"
said Augusta. "It would be the best
thing that you could do  by far the best  to
marry Valentine Cowley. If you give him the
least encouragement he will ask you, and oh !
Stella, dear child, accept him when he does !
Take my advice  I am older and more experienced
than you; you will save yourself
infinite sorrow if you do as I tell you ! "

"Do not say that, Augusta, please do not ! "
said Stella, with a kind of agony on her face.
It sounds like blasphemy to me to tell me
that I am to marry any one ! "

But if Cyril has really acquiesced in your
decision ?  it was yours, remember, dear. He
did not wish it ! And men are not to be played
fast and loose with at our will. If we do give
them up, you know, we must expect them to
take us at our words ; and there is no good in
looking back. To give up the substance and
live on the shadow is not very wise ! " she
added with a hard laugh, while her cheeks with
their two bright burning spots made the double
application as plainly as words would have
done.

He may ; and has," said Stella, her lips
quivering as she spoke ; " but though he may

give me up in this memory, I cannot forget
him ! I shall never love again ! never 1 never ! "
she repeated.

Well, you know best, of course, but don t
let people say you are breaking your heart fora
man who has forgotten you ! Wearing the
willow all your life is not a very dignified kind
of life, my dear. And by far the wisest thing
would be to make your happiness in another
direction now that the original venture has
failed."

How can you say such things, Augusta !
I sometimes feel as if you were two people ! "
cried Stella, almost angrily. " So charming
and sympathetic and sweet in some things ; so
hard and worldly in others ! "

So reasonable you mean, dear," the widow
answered gaily ; and yet her gaiety had a
terribly artificial sound in it ! "So opposed to
all silly sentimentality, and so heartily despising
weakness in all its forms. That is what you
call being hard and worldly. I don't. However,
good-bye for the present. Here we are
at that little snake's house ; for she is a snake,
Stella, and so you will find out some day ! I
will not be seen and I must go home now.
We have had our run, Tony and I, and mamma
is so uncomfortable to-day, I had better go

back. Good-bye, darling. Think over what I
have said, and look me in the face before I go-and
say you are not angry with me."

For an instant Stella kept her eyes to the
ground ; then she raised them frankly and gave
both her hands affectionately.

No, I am not angry, dear ! " she said, her
own sweet tender smile about her lips while
her eyes were still grave and thoughtful.
You mean well by me, I know  only we do
not agree as to what is well."

Time will show ! " laughed the widow, as
she turned away with her boy, a little relieved
that all had ended as smoothly as it had done.
She had plunged into deep waters, but she had
not damaged herself nor shipwrecked the
friendship which made a great part of her
private happiness. And her escape from the
danger to which she had voluntarily exposed
herself in Stella's affections counted to her asa
gain from which she would make a further
step yet in advance.

Stella found them all waiting for her at
Derwent Lodge  her father in his fine furred
coat and general look of gloss and get-up;
Hortensia in her quaintly-severe dress, always
with the flavour of Evangeline about her ; Mr.
and Mrs. Lyon, the one good-tempered, anaesthetic,

rabicimd, the other with that odd
mixture of depression and irritation proper to
wives who are sat upon by their husbands ;
and Eandolph, with his good, brave, honest,
unintellectual face  the dear, big, human watchdog
that he was ! And as soon as the girl
appeared the whole cavalcade set out  Hortensia
between her father and her elderly
idol, Stella between Mrs. Lyon and Cyril's
chum.

Surely something was in the air to-day !
What was it ? Valentine Cowley had never
pressed himself on Stella with so much evident
intention of absorbing her ; George Penne-father,
who had the trick of turning up where
least expected and least desired, and who could
hold on like a leech without showing that she
was sticking voluntarily to her post, had never
been more ubiquitous nor more tenacious ; and
Eandolph had never shown himself more resolute
in guarding Cyril's property from all
chance of theft by interlopers or from the bolder
robbery of burglars. It was like a game of
blind-man's buff where every one was being
caught against his or her will.

For one little moment on the ice Valentine
got Stella to himself. Gip's skate had come
unfastened, and though she had called to her

VOL. II. T

old playfellow to help her, she was obliged to
be content with the aid that Eandolph was
compelled to give in Yams wilful deafness and
rapid absence.

"Do you like that great lumbering fellow,
that Mackenzie?" asked handsome Yal with
irrepressible ill-humour.

At the moment jealousy was beyond brotherly
love ; and he could not employ the moment
better than by slinging his stone against the
watch-dog.

"Very much indeed," said Stella, trying to
stop her rapid transit ; adding : " Let us wait
for them."

Yalentine, who had her hand, took no notice
of her last words. He bit his lip with vexation ;
bit it vigorously, as a scorpion might have
stuiig itself; and then said sharply, disagreeably,
with a sneering smile :

And he, I suppose, is fond of you in
return ? "

'' I hope so," said Stella with grave dignity.
"What kind of tie can there be between you,
the very soul of grace and sweetness, and that
great awkward fellow  that lout who has only
his inches to recommend him ! " said Yalentine
with disdain. " I should as soon have expected
you to have made your favourite friend of

Chang himself as of Randolph Mackenzie !
These overgrown fellows have neither brains
nor muscles ! They are mere carrots when put
to it ! "

Stella changed colour. She could not tell
the truth and say that she liked Eandolph
because she had loved  had loved ?  Cyril ; and
Randolph had a flavour of Cyril, and brought
with him the remembrance, the association of
her lost love. She could not confess this ; and
she dared not take up the cudgels too warmly
in her friend's behalf because of this in her
heart. But she did say with extreme pride :

I like him because he is honest, truthful,
unselfish  because I can trust him."

You could not say less of a dog," laughed
Yalentine unpleasantly. "It is the clod and
the goddess over again."

But he is not a clod, and I am not a goddess""
said Stella ; " and do stop, Mr. Cowley ! Let
us wait for them."

No, do not ask me that," he said, his manner
suddenly changing. " I have so seldom the
chance of seeing you alone  you are always so
closely pursued by that fellow. I can never
2:et a moment with you without witnesses and
listeners ! "

Why should we not have witnesses and

listeners ? " repeated Stella hastily. " There
are no secrets between us ! "

There may be some day," said Valentine
with meaning; and Stella, enlightened by
Augusta, answered with half-frightened promptitude
:

That is impossible, Mr. Cowley. I never
make secrets with any one ! "

And as at that instant the pursuers came up
with them, heated and out of breath, Yalentine
could make no reply and could only look as if
he had none to make.

How awfully fast you went, you two ! "
cried Gip. '' You looked like running away 
I declare you did ! I began to wonder whether
Gretna Green was at the end of the Broads,
didn't I, Ran ? " she said, turning to Randolph
and laughing till the echoes rang again.

What kept you two back, Gip ? " asked Yal.
<;< Were you spooning ? I believe you were ;
and want to turn the tables upon innocent
me!"

"No, I don't think Ran or I are gone on
each other," said Gip with another laugh. " It
was only my bothering skate that came loose.
The horrid old strap broke. I called no end to
you, but you were as deaf as a post and went
on like a couple of lamplighters ! I tell you,

it looked just like a case of Gretna Green ; and
I heard a lot of people notice it."

Greorgie ! how can you say such dreadful
things ? " cried Stella indignantly.

*' Why are they dreadful ? " retorted George.
' Do you want to be like an ostrich, Stella, and
to stick your head in a bag believing that no
one sees you because you can't see yourself?
Of course it looked like spoons, your flying off
from us in that mad way !  and you would have
been the first to say so yourself if you had seen
it in any one else. But I'm sure you are quite
welcome. I don't want to spoil sport. Sa
come along, Ran, and let us leave these two to
themselves. We don't want to pick gooseberries,
do we ? "

Do not talk such nonsense, Greorgie ! " cried
Stella, even more indignantly than before.

Turning to Randolph she held out her hand
making him her skating-partner and balancing-pole
as if to cut short all this undesirable folly.
It was not often that she looked haughty and
superb ; but she did at this moment  her head
held high, her face flushed, her eyes dark and
bright, and a new spirit altogether animating
and informing her. Valentine looked at her
with admiration which made his face like a
book or a mirror.

By Jove ! " lie said, drawing his breath asa
man does when he is startled. If he had
thought Stella Brans combe supreme in her
sweetness he thought her still more so in her
pride.

You needn't look like that, Stella, as if you
would bite my nose off ! " said Grip with another
peal of laughter. " I declare you and Yal seem
as if you were acting a charade together."

Her voice and words seemed to waken her
old play-fellow from a dream. Evidently he
pulled himself together, as he would have expressed
it ; and turning from Stella, looked at
Grip at first with surprise, then with curiosity,
and then as if asking something or seeking
something. Suddenly he burst into a queer kind
of laugh as he took her hand in his and said :

Now, don't be savage, Gip, and satire is
not your style. Come for a spin with me, and
perhaps you will have got into a good temper
by the end. Why, you little fury, I didn't
know you had so much malice in you ! " he
said, as they skated off and left the causa belli
standing with her watch-dog.

To which Gip answered candidly :

"Well, Yal, of all things I hate a sneak
about the worst. And that little Stella Branscombe
is a real sneak, out and out ! "

So what with Hortensia a snake, and Stella a
sneak, the girlhood of Highwood had not much
to congratulate itself on in the way of honesty.
Randolph, his face flushed and his eyes full of
dumb reproach, stood all this time, grounded
on his heels, awkwardly holding Stella's hand
in his. He had none of that kind of courage
which makes a man take advantage of a chance.
As Grip said of him to Pip in those confidential
hours when the Doves dissected their neighbours
: '' He could not spell opportunity to save
his life." And she said the truth. Certainly,
with Stella Branscombe, who was surrounded
with the sanctity belonging to Cyril's property
ind who was his own Star  because Cyril's 
he was always that step in the rear which
needs direction and in a sense permission
before it goes on.

Let us go back to where papa and the
Lyons are standing," said Stella ; and Randolph
obediently answered : ' Very well, let
us ; " as he would have answered had she proposed
anything else.

And on this they set oft" at a much tamer
step than she had been forced to take with
Valentine. As they went, Randolph, whose
heart was too full to be contained in silence,
broke his way out with all the frank and

tactless honesty which was so specialty' his
own.

I was so sorry, Miss Stella, when you went
off like that with young Cowley ! " he said.

I could not help) it'' returned Stella rather
stonily.

George made such a row ! The whole
Broads must have heard her. I wanted you so
much to turn back," said Randolph.

What a silly girl that Greorgie is ! " cried
Stella. " I am sure I do not want Mr. Cowley
ever to speak to me again. Why does she let
him ? If she is so jealous of him, I wish she
would keep him to herself."

I wish he did not pay you quite so much
attention," hazarded Randolph. " People are
speaking of it so much ; and I am sure you do
not wish that. Miss Stella."

Speaking of what ? What do they say ? "
cried Stella, up in arms as she had been more
than once to-day.

Well, just what people do who have nothing-else
to say, and no brains to say it with,"
replied Randolph in a rather mixed way. " They
say that he is in love with you  and of course
it is easy to see that he is  and that you are
engaged to him; which you are not. I tell
every one you are not," he added with energy.

'' What a shame ! what a horrid shame ! "
cried Stella, tears rushing into her eyes. " How
I wish I could get away from High wood 1 " she
added with a girl's natural petulance. " It is
too horrid to be made the subject of gossip and
falsehood like this''

But you are not angry with me because I
have told you ? " said Randolph anxiously. " It
is only my duty to give you a word of warning,
when I think you want it. And indeed,
dear Miss Stella, you must be careful with
Valentine Cowley, if you do not want people
to think more than is true. I am sure you
don't mind my saving this. Tell me that you
don't."

'* No," said Stella, making an heroic effort
over herself; "I am much obliged to you. I
know that you have done it for my good."

All the same she felt horribly humiliated and
ill-treated by fate, fortune and humanity in
general, and wished that she could run away
from home tomorrow and hide herself in some
inaccessible place where neither Yal Cowley
nor Highwood gossip could find her.

'' I am going off the ice now," she said more
coldly in spite of herself than usual, as she and
Eandolph neared the bank where her father was
waiting with the Lyons.

So soon ! " he said ruefully.

Yes, I have had quite enough of it," washer
reply ; and poor Eandolph, feeling in disgrace,
said no more.

You have not been long, Stella," said Hortensia
who wished she had stayed away longer.

'' My dear, have you had enough already ? "
asked her father, who shared Hortensia's
wish.

Yes," said Stella, feeling herself unwelcome,
being sensitive enough to feel " the sound of a
shadow " at this moment.

She turned to Mrs. Lyon and put her hand
within her arm. Here at least she was not one
too many ; and a mother was always something
precious and comforting to her.

You and young Mr. Cowley made quite a
feature on the broad expanse," said Mr. Branscombe
with a courtly air. " I was proud of the
-elegance and swiftness with which you went.
It was really quite suggestive ! "

I am glad you were pleased with me,
papa ! " said Stella, her face brightening as she
spoke. Praise from her dear papa, a little too
rare in these days, was so delightful ! so consoling
!

' Yes, quite well pleased," returned her father.
 You made really a striking couple  quite

what I call a show couple ! "' he added with an
odd expression about his mouth.

Soon after this Yalentine and Grip, having
finished the " spin " by which the former had
bargained for the return to good-temper of
the latter, came up to the little group on the
bank.

Mr. Yalentine Cowley," said Mr. Branscombe
in a loud artificial voice ; '' allow me to
congratulate you on your elegance and prowess.
You remind me of my own young days, and,
egad, sir ! once I was the crack skater of the
regiment. I have never seen one who has
come near me but yourself."

' Very glad, Mr. Branscombe, I am sure,"
said Yal, pleased at the old fellow's butter  as
Grip called it in private a few minutes after 
because it was Stella's father who gave it.

I shall be glad if you will come back with
me and dine at Rose Hill, this evening," continued
Mr. Branscombe. " I have one or two
little trifles to show you that I think with your
taste you will appreciate."

Delighted, I am sure ! " said Yal, radiant,
while Stella blushed scarlet, Randolph looked
as if he had received his sentence of death, and
Oip, scarcely waiting to be out of hearing,
-cried out to her old playfellow: "The most

audacious bid I ever heard in my life. You
will be green, Val, if you are taken in by that
old fop ! "

"Never fear, Gip," said Yal with a laugh.
' I know what I am about ! "

CHAPTER XY.

OTHER EYES."

Suddenly Higliwood blazed with news of Cyril
Ponsonby. Every one was talking of him ;
every one had his or her comments to make, his
or her deductions to draw ; every one had either
foreseen such a chance as this from the first and
was not in the least degree surprised when it
came, knowing the young man's character so
well !or else, had never been so profoundly
shocked, v*ould never have suspected that Cyril
Ponsonby, such a nice fellow as he was, could
have been guilty of such a thing, and would not
have believed it save on such good authority as
that of Jack Pennefather's. For Jack, whose
tea-plantation was quite close to Cyril's station,
had written home to his people what the family
called an awfully jolly yarn ; and among other
bits of news had informed them that Cyril was

quite * gone " on a pretty little woman, a Mrs
"White, the wife of Captain White, of the Ninety-ninth
; that he fairly lived in their bungalow ;.
and that this little woman, who was called
Alla Rooks " by the fellows, was never seen
without Cyril lashed to her skirts. The old
man was in awfully good form, continued Jack,
and as lively as a cricket ; always in the front
of the fun and the life of the place all round.
He was a dead shot at big game, and made bags
that made one's mouth water ; but even brave
men said he was too reckless, and that some day
he would come to grief no end. But though he
was a good fellow enough, he was not quite on
the square to carry on as he did with Alla ;
for the Captain had stuck up for him, and been
his friend from the first, and it did not seem
quite the thing to spoon his wife in return.
However, that was their own affair, said Jack,
with the commendable philosophy of letting
people order their own households as they
would ; and no one had the right to interfere if
the Captain didn't object.

The lad forgot to add, or rather he himself
did not stop to reflect, that perhaps there was
not a word of truth in the whole of this notable
report ; and that if analyzed and reduced to its
original basis it would probably be found of no

more weight than a pinch of dust  the gossip
of a small Indian station not being worth the
breath consumed in repeating it. Jack said
nothing of this, and no one said it for him ; so
the letter made a profound sensation at High-wood
and on none more than the Penne-fathers.


It was one thing for girls to like fun and
noise, and to call their playfellows " old men''
"dear boys'' and by their Christian names when
not by some yet more familiar nickname ; and
another thing for young married women to get
talked about with young unmarried men ! The
one was legitimate ; and not only legitimate but
laudable as a protest against Sticks  Sticks
being anything but laudable ! But prancing
after a young married woman  spooning another
man's wife  ugh ! that was ugly, and wicked,
and shameful ; and both Gip and Pip, wild little
pusses as they were, got red with genuine indignation
when they spoke of it. This creature,
this Mrs. White, ought to be cut for a little
wretch who wanted more than her share ; and
Cyril Ponsonby deserved a thrashing to brings
him to a sense of good manners. As he Alas
the one known to the Highwood community,
while Mrs. White was only a name, he got the
severer half of the punishment. Had it been

the other way  or had Mrs. White been known
too she would have come in for more than her
" thirds," while the man would have been perhaps
pitied as the victim of her wiles.

The place echoed so loudly with indignation
at this report of Cyril's misdeeds, that, of course,
it came to Stella's ears. There are never wanting
good-natured people to tell you of what will
wound you to hear ; and the society at High-wood
was no exception to the rule. If no one
else had enlightened her, Gip and Pip would
have been sure to have carried both matches and
candle. As it was, she heard the news from
every one as it seemed to her, at once ; though
the shock was softened by Augusta making
herself the first medium of communication, and
telling her what she knew would be so much
anguish to hear, with some regard to humanity
in the method. For though Stella did not agree
with Augusta in her views of life and commonsense
conduct  did not follow her advice and
thought that advice all wrong  still they were
true and loving friends and held closely together.
The widow had too much reasonableness, Stella
too much sweetness, and both too much mutual
affection, to quarrel with each other for a difference
of opinion. As neither could prove herself
right, each therefore must be allowed to

think as she would ; and fights in the air are
stupid things to wage.

I knew that you will hear it from others, so
I thought I would be the first to tell you. You
would bear it better from me because you
know how much I love and feel for you," said
Augusta kindly.

She had come up to Rose Hill on a cold,
damp, drizzling day  one of those days of chilling-thaw
which rots the ice and turns the snow to
muddy slush, but which bring no sense of
warmth or release  simply to warn her friend
of the trial that was before her.

Stella held by her flag of fealty to the one
whom she had loved.

I do not believe it," she said simply ; her
disclaimer so essentially a confession of love as
well as of faith.

It may be exaggerated  I dare say it is ;
but there must be some groundwork," said
Augusta. " There is no smoke without fire,
dear Stella."

He is not that kind of man ; I know him
better than this," said Stella, sticking to her
point. " He cannot have changed in such a
short time ; and I know what his principles
were."

Still, a man's character comes out only

VOL. II. U

under trial," urged the widow. " It makes all
the difference whether he is happy or unhappy,
tried or not tried. Many of us who do perfectly
well if things go right with us fall utterly to
pieces  go headlong to ruin when they go
wrong. And Cyril Ponsonby may be of that
kind, you know, dear. We cannot tell yet."

Then in that case it is I who have ruined
him body and soul," said Stella, covering her
face.

Augusta looked at her for a moment in
silence. Another woman would have said :
Did I not advise you to marry him ? And if
you had taken my advice would not all this
have been spared both to you and to him ? "
But Augusta was not like other women in
things of this kind, and at all times cared more
for the establishment of a principle than for
self-glory or justification. After a little time of
silence, she said, gently :

There is no good in going back on our
actions. You did what you thought best at the
time. Let the rest go. If the story is true as
it stands it only shows that Cyril was essentially
weak, and you have had an escape."

Stella did not answer, but she thought within
herself, as a woman naturally would think :
"' No, it only shows that he loved me, and that
I have ruined him ! "

But now, darling," said Augusta ; * be
brave to the world. Let no one see that you
suffer, and do not defend him too warmly. Just
listen in silence, without saying anything one
Away or the other. Be inscrutable. Do not
give the faintest indication of what you feel.
That is the best armour for a woman to wear 
a smooth surface, but as impenetrable as it is
smooth."

"I do not think I can bear to hear him
slandered without defending him," said Stella
with quivering lips.

Then all the world will say that you are in
love with him, Stella," said Augusta, the lightest
little accent of scorn lying in her voice.

They may, if they like," said Stella.

And you do not object to the appearance of
caring for a man who has ceased to care for
you ? Whether you broke off the engagement
or not, at all events he has shown that he has
forgotten you and has consoled himself with
some one else."

I defend him as a friend ; and he has not
consoled himself," said Stella, with more fidelity
than logic.

The widow went over to where she was sitting,
and laid her hands on her shoulders.

Stella, dear child, I cannot bear that you

should make this frightful mistake ! " she cried,
speaking so earnestly that the blood came into
her face like fire and her grey eyes glistened
and grew dark. " I know the world so much
better than you do, and I know too, what idle
and ill-natured people are capable of saying.
I cannot have you jeered at by all the foolish
and slanderous tongues in Highwood. You
must not ; you must not, indeed ! "

Must not what, Augusta ? " asked Stella,
laying her hands in turn on her friend's arms.

Defend Cyril Ponsonby," said Augusta.

I cannot hear him slandered and not defend
him," answered Stella gravely. " That would
be too base, and cowardly ! "

' That conscience again ! " half sighed the
widow. "It is a troublesome possession to you,
my dear."

I would rather have the trouble of it than
be without it," said Stella; and Augusta said
no more.

They were on such different planes of
principles, she thought there was no use in
trying to bring things together. They must
be content to mutually love and respect each
other for what was worthy to be loved and
respected in each ; and they must let the
rest go. Discretion ranked with Augusta as

the greatest social virtue ; duty was to Stella
the epitome of the whole world of morals.
There was no middle term between the two ;
and each must work out her own redemption
her own way. But though Augusta had not
done all that she had hoped to do in thus
making herself the bearer of ill-tidings, she
had done something. She had put Stella on
her guard against a sudden shock from others ;
and had thus saved from unnecessary pain
and damaging self-betrayal the girl with whom
she said to herself twenty times a day she
was really too angry to care what became of
her, and for whom she felt that irrepressible
respect which the conscientious and truthful
perforce inspire.

*' Well ! you must act as you think best, of
course, dear," Augusta said, throwing up the
game. " We are different ; and must be content
to remain so. Nothing would humiliate me so
much as to be thought in love with a man
who no longer cared for me."

And I would rather people said that of me
than that I should seem to believe a slander
and join in disparagement of a friend  whom
I respect," said Stella.

On this the widow kissed her and talked of
something else. But when they parted at the

house door  Stella going into the hall with her
friend to help her to fasten her waterproof, and
to see that she was as well protected from the
weather as was possible  standing face to face
for the last words, Stella threw her arms romid
the widow and said with a sudden outburst of
feeling which swept away every vestige of
misunderstanding :

You are the kindest, dearest, wisest woman
in the world ! "

To which Augusta answered :

And you have the best heart, my darling ;
but we will not speak about the dear head ! 
God bless it ! "

By which it may be seen that they parted
on more than ordinarily amicable terms, and
that the difference in their moral standpoints
made no difference in their mutual affection.

That evening there was to be a charade-party
at the Lyons', and, of course, both the Brans-comes
and the Pennefathers were there. It
was just one of the ordinary evening-parties
so frequent at this time, when every one in the
place was invited and no one dreamed of refusing;
and apparently there was no point of
difference between this or any other. And yet
there was a difference ; and every one felt as
if society had put on a new dress and the

diamond had received another facet ; as if the
curtain had risen on a new act and at least one
of the actresses had to appear in an untried
character.

How would she look ? how would she hear
herself ? Poor thing ! said some, it would he a
trial for her ; hut others sniffed at the word,
and said : " Trial ! How should it he a trial
to her when she was carrying on a flirtation
on her own side, and probably was at this
moment engaged to that young Mr. Cowley?
Did a girl want all the world at her feet, and
that one man should he sighing his heart out
for her in India while another was making love
to her in England ? Trial ! what trial could
there be for her in hearing that Cyril 
was making a fool of himself and worse,
out there ? She had thrown him over ; so she
had nothing to say ! "

Nevertheless, they were all on the very tiptoe
of expectation, and each wondered who would
launch the first thunderbolt and who cast the
first stone.

They were standing grouped about the room,
as people do in evening-parties before they
have settled down to the work of the hour.
Stella and Augusta were side by side, and
talking to them were Valentine Cowley and

Colonel Moneypenny. The twins were at the
farther end of the room, arranging with their
brothers, Milford Cowley and one or two more,
about the charades. For though it was the
Lyons' party and the Lyons' house the Penne-fathers
were the moving spirits, as they always
were in matters of fun and gaiety. Presently
Yal and Augusta were wanted for the greenroom.


' I'll go for them," said Grip, her bright eyes
looking a little dangerous and her manner
somewhat that of a Bedouin, a Bashi-Bazouk,
or what one will of aggressive and determined,
with the victim within sight and the plan of
attack prepared.

Going across the room she broke into the
little circle.

Augusta, dear, we want you," she said
very prettily  for noisy George Pennefather
quite sweetly indeed ; " and you, Yal, we want
you too, if you can possibly tear yourselves
away from Stella Branscombe's skirts. Will
you give him leave to come and act with us,
Stella ? " she added with a loud laugh.

It was so little in her way to be ill-natured
that even now, when she had stung herself into
this sharp hostility to her old chum's latest
realization of the Supreme in Woman, she was

obliged to retain her old manner  though it
was only manner; the in forming spirit and
impulse being something quite different.

What are you going to trot out, Grip ? "
asked Yal, a certain look of insolence in his
studied nonchalance.

Oh ! I can't give the word, you know,"
said Grip with another laugh. " That would
be telling. You have to sing a song, though 
Lover s ' What would you do, love ? ' Oh,
by the bye, Stella," she added, turning suddenly
to the girl, and speaking in a loud, clear,
ringing voice, which all the room could hear ;
talking of ' other eyes,' have you heard of
your old flame, Cyril Ponsonby, how he is
spooning a young married woman  and the
wife too of the man who has been kindest of
all to him at the station ? Isn't it a shame ?
Don't you think it horrid ? "

The curtain had drawn up and the new act
of the drama had begun. There was a dead
silence among the guests. Mr. Branscombe,
who had heard nothing of Cyril's misdemeanour
before this moment, was startled, and looked at
his daughter quite naturally, not having had
time to take up an attitude or to put himself
into any kind of moral pose. He was anxious
to see how Stella would bear herself, but he did

not feel able to give her any note of direction.
She must get out of the scrape in the best way
she could, and only when it was all over would
he come in with his final flourish. Eandolph
Mackenzie, near Hortensia, turned all manner
of colours, his whole being thrilled with pain
for Stella and with indignation against George
Pennefather; and Hortensia's prim little face
became rigid and rather red, as befitted a
tender-souled and virtuous Evangeline before
whom naughty subjects were discussed. For
the rest, they merely held their breath and
listened ; while Dr. Quigley, appearing to be
absorbed in a book of photographs, kept his
eyes fixed on Stella, looking up sideways from
under his bushy brows.

It would be very dreadful indeed if it were
true," said Stella in a low but perfectly distinct
voice, standing there with her head slightly
bent and her eyes fixed and steady, a little too
self-composed and nerved for perfect simplicity
of parry. She was evidently prepared for the
attack and was not taken by surprise.

Oh ! it is true enough ! Jack knows all
about it," said Gip. " And hasn't he made
good use of his time, just ? He has not worn
the willow for those he left behind him, whatever
other people may have done ! But after

all, wearing!: the willow is out of fashion now.
isn't it, Stella ? "

Again a wild, forced, rude kind of laugh
gave extra point and meaning to her words ;
and again the room heard and understood and
watched in silence for more to come.

Is it ? '' said Stella quietly'. " I suppose
constancy  for that is what you mean by
wearing the willow, is it not ?  is as much the
fashion now as it ever was with some, and as
little so with others."

Those ' some ' don't lodge here," said Gip.

Do they not ? " said Stella, with an admirable
appearance of sublime indifference.

I don't think you need ask," said Greorgie
Pennefather sharply, glancing at Valentine,
her bold black eyes showering down on him
an infinitude of fiery reproach.

No ? " said Stella. " The whole question
does not belong to me in any way. I have
nothing to do with it."

George was baffled. She had been cut by
that impenetrable smoothness which causes all
the arrows to glance off into space and turns
the point of all the spears ; and even she,
reckless as she was, dared not cast conventional
politeness so entirely to the winds as to attack
at too close quarters the girl of whom she was
jealous.

At all events," she said, going back to the
point which she knew to be vulnerable, though
she could not see the wound ; "at all events,
Cyril Ponsonby has shown what he is made of.
He cannot lay claim to constancy, or even to
common honour. A man spooning a young
married woman. Horrible ! Disgraceful ! At
least I think so if you don't, Stella ! "

I should think so too if I believed it to be
true," said Stella. "But I do not believe it,"
she repeated, this time even more firmly than
before.

Augusta touched her foot in warning; Mr.
Branscombe twisted his moustache in a nervous
and irritated manner ; Colonel Moneypenny bent
over to Augusta Latrobe and whispered :

What a noble creature ! How few would
do as she has dared to do ! "

But in saying this he thought of himself and
the fair widow's advocacy of him and belief in
him, should he be attacked in her presence and
slandered in his own absence. He did not
think of Sandro Kemp, say ; nor would he have
-called it noble in her had she defended that
obnoxious designer of walls and ceilings had he
been vilified, however unjustly. Valentine
Cowley bit his lip as his manner was when
annoyed; and very heartily in his own mind

consigned Cyril Ponsonby and George Penne-father
to the infernal deities together. Dr.
Quigley, still watching and looking, made up
his mind as to the meaning of the whole affair ;
and Randolph had a curiously mixed feeling of
admiration, sympathy, sorrow  and something-quite
undefinable to himself  something that
made him rejoice at Yal Cowley's discomfiture
and yet sorry and disappointed somehow ; but
why he did not know and could not for the
life of him understand. Meanwhile Stella stood
there quite quietly, alone in her advocacy and
yet quite sufficiently supported by her love and
her courage.

Then Dr. Quigley came up to her and said
in a slow, measured way :

You are quite right, Miss Stella, not to
believe ill words of an old friend. I don't believe
a word of it all ! There is some mistake somewhere
; or it is merely the ordinary gossip of
a small station where people have nothing
better to do than pick holes in each other's
coats and make nothing into something. Cyril
Ponsonby was not the fellow to make love to
another man's wife."

No, he is not'' said Randolph from the
other side of the room. " The story is either
a mistake or an exaggeration. I am sure of
that ! "

Her two supporters nearly broke down Stella's
guard. She had borne both loneliness and
opposition in her advocacy, but when it came
to help and the rallying* of shield-bearers she
was nearly overcome. Still she had to control
herself for pride's sake ; and she did manage to
keep her face set as before. And then others,
who had been taken by surprise in the beginning
and who had held their breath in expectation
of the drama to come, began to talk among
themselves, as people will, no matter what is
afloat, after the first few moments of silent
excitement. The sharpness of the interest was
blunted by the inevitable egoism of human
nature, and the whole thing passed off into the
noise and movement of an ordinary evening-party.


But when they were arranging their charades,
Yal said to Gip, in a kind of aside :

I did not think you had it in you, Gip ! If
any one had told me I would have denied it on
your behalf ! "

What ? " asked Gip, with the most innocent
manner in the world.

'' Such abominable cruelty ! I hate to see
such cruelty from one girl to another ! It was
really too mean of you to take such an advantage.
I could not understand you, Gip. I
do not understand you ! "

Yalentine spoke hurriedly, with scarcely suppressed
excitement and evident annoyance of
a graver kind than the occasion seemed to
warrant, seeing that he was originally Grip's
friend and only a later adherent of Stella's.

You will take her part, of course," said Grip,
with an odd mixture of defiance and discomfort.

Yalentine turned his eyes right into hers.

Any one would take her part," he answered.

Oh, if you are as much gone as that, I have
no more to say ! " said Gip, with flashing eyes
and a little cpiver about her lips. " I didn't
know that you had come spoons as far as that."

'- Nonsense, Grip ! And you know it is nonsense
! It has nothing to do with being gone
or coming spoons," said Yalentine angrily.
It was simply a case of ordinary feeling 
ordinary womanly delicacy of compassion. It
was an unprovoked attack from first to last,
and I can only say I am sorry for it. I would
not have believed such a thing of you unless
I had heard it with my own ears."

And on this he turned away, while Grip's
quick-beating heart said : " Did I do wrong ? "
the faintest echo of a " Yes," whispered by her
conscience, breaking through the louder " No "
of her jealousy and wrath. That yes would
have had to be spoken in a far more distinct

voice before she would have been brought to
the grace of penitence and the nobility of confession.
Crying " peccavi " and " mea culpa "
was not much in George Forefather's experience.
Up to now she had never been so
deeply stirred as to be led to do a serious
wrong. Her peccadilloes hitherto had been of
a very insignificant and superficial kind ; and
it was easy to say : " I'm awfully sorry ! " fora
mistake which had not been intended and
which had not been very damaging when made.
When it came to the acknowledgment of evil
thoughts, and repentance for a cruel action,
that was another matter altogether. The smoke
of the battle must clear away before you can
bury your dead ; and passions must be subdued
before you can feel that you have wronged
another while under their influence, and so come
into the clearer light of consciousness of sin and
avowal of your fault.

There was however just so much sense of
wrong-doing in Grip as to make her say that
night, when she and Pip, in blue slippers and
crimson-flannel dressing-gowns, were talking
over the events of the evening :

"Was I a brute to Stella, Patrick ? I was
wild against her !  but was I a brute ? "

Well, you were a little rough on her, I

must sap," said Pip, with the air of one who
is sorry to condemn, but who cannot help herself.

If I was, she is a sneak and deserved it,"
said Grip, tearing at her embroidery with vigour.

Then she burst into a curious fit of crying,
alternating with a wild and harsh kind of
laughter which frightened Pattie, and made her
think that her twin Dove had gone mad. But
this unwonted hysterical attack soon passed ;
and after they had both agreed that Stella was
a sneak as Grip had said, and that Yal was an
awful idiot to be taken in by her, and that it
was downright horrid in a girl to pretend to be
constant to one man when she was doing everything
she could to get hold of another, they felt
a great deal easier in their minds. All the
same, Pattie repeated, sorrowfully :

But you were awfully rough on her, George,
and I was sorry ; for it is such awfully bad
form, you know, to be nasty like that before
such a lot of people ! "

To which George answered with an evanescent
glance of repentance on her flushed little
face :

I'm awfully sorry if I gave it her too hot ;
she deserved it ; but I did not want to be a
brute."

But you were," said Pattie with grave regret.

VOL. II. X

If I was, Yal slated me hard eiiougli. So
we may cry quits over that ! " said Grip, her
gleam of repentance passing into space and her
naughty passions once more triumphant.

6Vi

CHAPTER Xii.

THE OLD, OLD STORY.

The only effect which George Peunefather s
ill-timed attack had on valentine Cowley was
to make him still more tenderly devoted to
Stella, and doubly anxious to take that place
of spiritual brother which conceals so much
more than it confesses and gives so much more
than it asks. So far the poor Dove had taken
nothing, and had lost a great deal, by her imprudent
outburst ; but after that first " slating,"
as the vulgar little creature called it, Valentine
said no more, and cut the ground of complaint
from under the feet of his former playfellow by
his almost rude rolling, his rough gaiety when
they were together. It was rolling that was
forced and gaiety that was assumed ; and Grip,
who was by no means remarkable for either
sensitiveness or perspicuity, saw through the

veil and resented the attempt to blind her.
She was scarcely like herself in these later days ;
and from the most easy-going, joyous, unconcerned
kind of modern slang-loving Thalia, developed
into a very fury, always more or less
in a bad humour and alternating between shrill
impertinence and gloomy sulks. She made
even her own family feel the sudden change
that had been wrought in her  a change for
which Yalentine Cowley alone was responsible,
and the effect of which should by rights have
been confined to him. But she was too sore,
]door little creature, to be wise or just ; and the
fox which she had carried so bravely in the
beginning had by now learned out and shown
his cruel muzzle to more than one onlooker.

As far as Stella herself was concerned, she
would have been rejoiced to have given back
her chum to curly-headed Gip, and to have
freed herself from the shaping hand of her
would-be Prometheus. Yet how could she?
Mr. Branscombe's admiration for this Ideal
Youth  himself restored to adolescence  was so
openly expressed and so strongly marked, his-invitations
were so frequent and so warmly
given, and his occupations so unfortunately
peremptory when the young fellow did come to
Iiose Hill, that Stella was thrown more and

snore in Valentine's way and with less than ever
of outside interference. All Highwood said that
it was a case, and Miss Stella was doing better
than might have been expected for a young
lady who had been publicly engaged and
as publicly cast aside ; but some more astute
shook their heads and said: '' No ; that was not
it. It was the father not the daughter  a case
of settlements not of inconstancy''

The one who suffered most of all  even more
than Stella  was poor Eandolph. He was
miserable and almost without knowing why.
He could scarcely flatter himself that he was
Cyril's lieutenant, holding the ground sacred
because his friend had planted there his flag.
After all that had been said by Jack Penne-father
 with that axiom about fire and smoke
echoing in his ears  and after the unsatisfactory
and reckless letters which he himself had received,
he could not pretend to believe that the
thing had any life in it now, or that the future
had any hope. Nevertheless, he gloomed and
watched, and wondered about that would-be Prometheus
and his version of Psyche, with a ferocious
kind of care which more than once brought
him into trouble. It made Valentine furious and
Stella embarrassed, and brought down on his intrusive
pate Mr. Branscombe's elegant ferule

with a force that made even the poor grub smart.
But nothing in the way of castigation had any
lasting effect on him. He was still the jostling
and ubiquitous watch-dog to the office of which
he had devoted himself; and if at times he
embarrassed Stella, at times he helped and
protected her. And one success wiped off the
score of twenty failures. When he saw the
dear troubled eyes brighten as he came into the
room, where she sat alone with Yalentine,
listening to love so thinly disguised as to be
recognized even by her  anxious as she was
not to hear and not to see  he felt then that he
had established his claim and given a reason
for his existence. If she had really wanted Yal
Cowley's attentions, he would have been brokenhearted
and he would have retired. He should
have lost his faith in her, and by her in womankind
in general, but he Avould not have stood
in her way. As things were, with the troubled
eyes becoming bright when he entered and
interrupted, he was satisfied with himself and
full of determination to go on as he had begun.

One day indeed, he went so far as to leave
his " work " for the sake of cutting short a tete-
k-tete which he knew was taking place in the
drawing-room. And when he went in, making
a foolish and very transparent pretext of

wanting something that did not exist, Stella
was so evidently relieved, so frankly glad and
grateful for his coming, that the poor fellow
turned redder than usual with delight ; and if
Miss Stella at that moment had asked him to
die for her he would have performed Hard-Kari
as a short cut to Paradise.

Valentine almost gnashed his teeth with
anger at the intrusion. He had been working
up to his point with admirable skill and artist,
and it was annoying to have all his clever
approaches trodden down and scattered under
the huge foot of this stupid son of Anak !
Little Eandolph cared for the black looks and
flaming eyes of the baffled besieger ! He had
helped and relieved the dear, half-frightened
besieged, and that was his reward. But his
fingers were well rapped by his employer, who
soon came to look for him and carry him back
to his grind, and who made the rest of the
morning uncomfortable enough.

All the same, those artistic approaches were
destroyed for the present ; and Stella was able
to prevent their immediate reconstruction.

She made it evident to Yal in her own quiet
way, that anything definite would be premature
and a dead failure. His only chance lay in his
spiritual fraternity ; in his keeping his disguise

SO close that she should cease to fear the
possibility of a new revelation ; in accustoming
her to him as a pleasant and innocuous fact in
her life. When habit had welded this fact
thoroughly into the substance of her days, and
had made it part of her thoughts and one with:
her doings, then he might come out of his hush,
throw aside his disguise, and carry his point
by the very force of habit. A woman will
give to a man who has made himself a necessary
friend, what she would have denied to the
lover ; and Valentine knew this as a theory
which he designed to test by practice. This
then, was his scheme ; and on paper and in
potentialities it stood fair and firm.

The visit of the Cowley bojs to Higliwood
was drawing to a close, but Stella's soul
was still incomplete and her fidelity to Cyril
unshaken. Yal would scarcely flatter himself
that he had done much, but he knew that he
had done something ; and the rest would come
in time. Meanwhile, in the frankest and most
gentlemanlike way possible, he asked Mr.
Branscombe's consent to a correspondence
which was to do Stella some unknown and
designated " good ; " and in the frankest and
most gentlemanlike way possible Mr. Branscombe
gave that consent and hoped that his

clear child would profit by the chance. So far
the young fellow cleverly enough kept the place
open and the future in hand.

And then the brothers went off to. spend the
second half of the vacation at their own home ;
and Yal's letters were so frequent and so long,
so full of questions to be answered and of
subjects to be discussed, they took up almost
as much of Stella's time as Cyril's had done.
Stella took care to make them household
property, and to let Tal know that she threw
them over to her father even before reading
them herself. She would have cut the whole
thing short had she done as she would; but
]Mr. Branscombe insisted on the correspondence
for the sake of that mysterious " good " which
was to accrue to her mind and nature. As
there was really nothing which ought to either
frighten or revolt her, she was forced to let
matters take their course, and to submit to a
correspondence which seemed to her in some
sort a desecration of the past if of no evil in
the present.

Not having much to do of any kind, and
nothing that was absorbing, Colonel Money -
penny gave a great deal of time and attention
to his neighbours ; and this little drama of
Stella Branscombe's, with the unanswered

questions : " Would lie be faithful to CyriFs
memory? "  or, "Would she console herself with
Valentine Cowley ? " interested him almost as
much as if it had been his own private and
personal affair. He professed himself charmed
with Stella Branscombe, though he did not say
which way he wished her to take ; and he
envied the young fellows their chances whichever
way she went. She was a delightful girl
and worth any man's money ; and so he said to
Augusta, with a little sparkle of malice in his
deep-set eyes, watching to see how she would
take praises of such unstinted warmth for one
who had evidently the trick of winning men's
love. When a girl, in a country-place where
young ]en arc precious by their rarity, could
boast of one lover, one aspirant and one watchdog,
she may be marked dangerous and a fit
subject for other girls' jealousy. But so was
Augusta dangerous, in just the same way and
to exactly the same degree. If Stella had three
marked off to her share, the widow had found
the same number, inciting himself in Valentine
Cowley's place ; with the poor dead
husband to balance the exiled lover ; and
Sandro Kemp keeping even step with Eandolph
Mackenzie. Yet not quite even.  Sandro was a
burnt-out sky-rocket, and Eandolph was a

\vatch-dog in situ. But the Liirnt-out sky-rocket
was the more dangerous of the two !

She really is a most charming girl," the
Colonel said, the malicious light of exaggeration
flashing; over his sincerity ; " and she will some
day make some man supremely happy. I know
no one better able to make a man thoroughly
happy than Miss Stella Branscombe."

She has no business to make any man
happy, unless it is Cyril Ponsonby ; and that
will never be ! " said Mrs. Morshead tartly.
She was as good as married  engaged in the
face of the world as she was and with all her
wedding-things ordered ! If the young hussy
marries, I say she will be just as bad as if she
were a widow ; and I hope she has too much
good feeling and too much modesty to do such
a thing. I think too well of her, Colonel
Moneypenny, to suppose it possible ; though
they have talked of this young Cowley, and of
that long Eandolph Mackenzie too ! I don't
believe a word of either  not a word. And so
I have always said. Have I not, Augusta ? "

Have you, mamma ? " asked the widow
sweetly, in the voice that meant assent.

Have I ? Why of course I have ! " snapped
IIrs. Morshead sharply.

Colonel Moneypenny twisted his moustache

with his long nervous fingers, and flushed, os
he always did when annoyed.

' I think you are a little severe, Mrs. Mors-head,"
he said in an irritable voice.

No ; I am not severe at all," the terrible
old woman answered. ' If I, and such as I,
did not keep people straight, where would
society go to I should like to know ? Severe !
I am a great deal too lenient ; that is what it
is  not the other way."

Do you share your mother's views?" asked
the Colonel, turning to Augusta rather abruptly.

The widow looked sweet, mindless, tranquil ;
and yet her cheeks had that pretty pink glow
which marked a state of internal excitement
well covered down and concealed.

'' It is a difficult question," she said quietly.

'' Difficult ! Where is the difficulty, I should
like to know ! " said Mrs. Morshead. '" It is as
plain as a turnpike road ! Where is the difficulty,
Augusta ? "

In the children," answered her daughter.

Not in the woman ? " asked the Colonel
quickly.

More in the children," she replied. " A
good stepmother or a good stepfather is so
difficult to find ! "

She looked into the Colonel's face as she said

this, her cain and candid eyes as expressionless,
as free from consciousness as if they had been a
doll's.

And I say it is in the woman," said Mrs.
Morshead. " A second marriage is not a bit
better than heathen vice and polygamy ! "

Oh, Mrs. Morshead ! " remonstrated the
Colonel.

Well, Colonel Moneypenny, I think I ought
to know when I have been a widow myself
these twelve years and more ! " said Mrs. Mors-head
in a thin voice ; and Colonel Moneypenny,
not to be beaten, answered back :

I don't see how that affects the question,
Mrs. Morshead. I have been a widower these
twenty-two years, and I don't see the sin of
marrying again."

It would be more to your credit, perhaps, if
you did," snapped the old woman ; and her
voice and eyes and manner again sent the blood
into the Colonel's face  and kept it there.

A day or two after this little brush with his
generally concordant gossip, Colonel Money-penny
called again at The Laurels on some
frivolous pretence about the next meeting of
the book-lending society, with which neither
Mrs. Morshead nor Augusta had anything whatever
to do. He brought a showy toy for Tony

it was not an expensive one, extravagance
being dead against the Colonel's principles ; and
lie gave it with a curious parade of consciousness
in well-doing and bashfulness combined.
It was the first time in his life that he had done
such a thing; and when he handed the toy
waggon to Augusta he felt as awkward and
embarrassed as a girl when she receives her
first offer and does not love the man. Then he
graciously inquired of the fair widow if she
would like her little fellow to ride his pony?
His groom should hold him on, and every care
should be taken of him. If she wanted him to
have a Good seat she could not begin too early
with him ; and he would be very glad to
see that he was taught well. Hitherto he had
thought of the boy only as a hindrance and a
nuisance ; now he gave him the place of a
medium and association. He was so very
pressing in his offers of service, so very paternal
and thoughtful, that he showed his hand too
plainly and let Mrs. Morshead into the secret of
his play.

Is that old fool making up to you, Augusta
? " she said sharply, when he left. " What
a tiresome girl you are, to be sure ! " she added.
' It is all your fault ; and I am sure I do not
know how you do it. First one and then

another  I have no peace in my life with
sou ! "

Well, mamma, I do not see what I do that
should annoy yon," said Augusta with tranquil
unconcern.

You do everything," replied Mrs. Morshead.
* I think all you young women in Highwood
have taken leave of the few senses Providence
ever gave you to go on with. There is Stella
Branscombe and Cyril Ponsonby ; Stella Branscombe
and that young Cowley ; Stella Branscombe
and that long Randolph Mackenzie ; and
you and all the men you can get hold of. It is
horrible. Nothing but. flirting and marrying,
or wanting to get married ! It is downright
indecent ; I declare it is ! "

*rit is the old, old story, mamma," said
Augusta imprudently.

'' The old, old rubbish ! That's what it is ! "
growled her mother savagely. " Let me catch
you at it, Augusta, that's all ! I'll soon teach
you wdiat the old, old story means ! Have you
lost all your dignity, all your modesty, I want
to know ? You are nothing better than a mere
light-o'-love, that is what you are ! Flirting
here and flirting there, and you a widow, who
should be in weeds and with a decent cap on
your head, instead of with nothing at all and

your hair like a girl. You arc shameful ; and
no more fit to be the mother of that dear, little
fatherless boy than if you were sixteen. I am
sick and tired of it all ; I declare I am ; and I
almost wish that you would marry so that I
might be at peace for the rest of my days ! "

Do you, mamma ? " said Augusta, rising
with that same sudden excitement almost fierceness
of face which her mother had seen in her
before, if so rarely, and once to such disastrous
results. It was the face which betokened such
a strong stirring of the usually quiet waters 
that it both angered and frightened the old
woman.

Don't look like that at me ! " she said
harshly. " I won't be looked at like that,
Augusta, as if you were going to strike me !
Leave the room. Miss, until you can behave
yourself as you ought ; and be thankful that I
do not say leave the house for a bad, wicked,
undutiful girl that you are  and as ungrateful
as you are high ! Gro and marry ! " she continued,
her passion increasing with expression.
Don't think that I want to keep you at home.
You are nothing but a nuisance from first to
last  a trouble and a plague, both you and
your boy. Gro and marry that old prig, or jMr.
Branscombe, or Sandy Kemp the sign-painter "

how she sneered and showed her fang-like
eye-teeth when she said this  " anybody you
like ! I wash my hands of you, and shall be
glad to get rid of you. And so I say it ! "

Augusta did not answer. Whatever was in
her heart of anger and humiliation she stifled,
as she had so often stifled it before. But this
time she controlled only the expression ; the
feeling raged if her lips were still, and she felt
as if she could not bear all this misery and
contumely and live.

Without another word she turned and left
the room ; and in a few moments Mrs. Mors-head
heard her leave the house and saw her
walk hurriedly down the drive  alone. For
one of the few occasions since she had returned
to the cold shelter of this ungenial home, she
left her little son to the care of the maids while
she went off on her own business without him.

I have a great mind to say that she shall
never come back again, that she may pack up
and go  she and her troublesome little brat.
She is a wicked and undutiful young hussy,
and as sly as she is disobedient. She has been
nothing but a torment to me ever since she was
born. She may go ; and joy go with her ! "
said Mrs. Morshead aloud.

But her heart was heavy, and she tried in

VOL. II. Y

vain to stiffen lier resolution by artificial aid 
to keep her anger hot by crackling thorns. In
vain too, she sought for comfort in her cat.
The Shah purred lazily when she caressed him,
but went to sleep on her lap, understanding
nothing of all that terror of consequences, that
unacknowledged regret for what she had said,
and that one hot tear which fell from her eyes.
It was all to give and nothing to receive in this
worship of her four-footed favourite ; and at
this moment what she wanted was the support
of sympathy in her wrong-doing, and the assurance
that she had acted with dignity, spirit and
maternal propriety all round.

Walking, she scarcely knew where nor for
what purpose  not conscious of the cold north
wind that blew with such bitter force, nor of
the heavy clouds which were massing sullenly
overhead  not conscious of anything but the
pain by which she was stung as by a living-serpent
 Augusta went on with a rapid step ;
her head on fire and her heart one great throb
of passionate despair. "What should she do ?
She could not, would not, must not, bear it !
Her son's future fortune was precious and her
care ; but were not some things even more
precious than that fortune ? To live as he and
she were living now, inter perpetual insult,

scoff, rebuke, suspicion  in perpetual subjection
was not this paying too dearly for ibis
patrimony ? At this moment sbe thought so ;
and sbe thought too, with a woman's madness 
that madness of despair and rash resolve wbicb
was so seldom hers  that sbe would give herself
to the first man wbo might ask ber ; to
Sandro Kemp, were be bere, for love and without
fortune ; to Colonel Moneypenny, for fortune
and without love ;  to any one indeed, rather
than remain the sport and victim of ber mother's
tongue and temper. Any one ! any one ! yes,
even to the Colonel !

Well met ! " said a voice with an indescribable
ring of satisfaction in its tones.

Sbe started as if from a dream and found
herself immediately in front of the Colonel's
place, Bellevue ;  with the owner himself on
the point of entering in at the lodge gate.

Well met ! " be said again, taking ber band.
' You are just in time to shelter. Tbe snowstorm
has begun."

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDCK AND Eccles.

%-j

'm

'>:mm

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILUNCS LIBRARY AT URBANA-champaign

S Mr 13 7!!

iOCT0 5l98

L161 O-1096

THE BLACK ROBE. By Wilkie Collins. Three
Vols. Second Edition.

THE CHAPLAIN OP THE FLEET. By

Besant and Rice. Three Vols.

PROM EXILE. By James Payn. Three Vols.

A VILLAGE COMMUNE. By Ouida. Two Vols.

A ROMANCE OP THE NINETEENTH
CENTURY. By W. H. Mallock. Two Vols.

CHATTO AND Winds, PICCADILLY, W.

MY LOVE!

 ?

E. LYNN LINTON

AUTHOR OF "PATRICIA Kimball," "THE ATONEMENT OF LEAM DUNDAS,
"under which LORD?" "THE REBEL OF THE FAMILY," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

Control
CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY



the right of translation is reserved '\

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill

CHAPTER

PAGE

I. On the Brink . .  1

II. Tested for Truth . . . 22

III. Turning the Knife . . . 42

IV. Taking Breath . . . 64

Y. By the Seaside  . . . 84

VI. The Lover's Leap . . 100

VIL Cousin Ethel . . . 119

VIII. The Crimson Bars of Evening . 135

IX. The Weaving Web . . . 157

X. Under Pressure . . . 180

XL At the Rebound . . . 193

XII. Love's Shadow Hate . . 208

XIII. As High as his Heart . . 227

XIV. No Worse than the Rest . . 248

XV. The New Ordering . . . 262

XVI. ACHAPTER I.

ON THE BRINK.

Here !  of all places in the world, this ! The
widow started at the sound of Colonel Money-penny's
voice as if he had been a spirit called
from out the infinite by the spell of her
desire. She looked up with a frightened and
bewildered face. The guard which she usually
maintained with so much care was suddenly
broken down, and she was as confused and
overcome as any other woman might have been.
Had she been a mere school-girl met out of
bounds, or caught in the act of stealing sacred
apples, she could not have been more abashed
for the moment than now, when Colonel Money-penny
woke her from her dreaming wrath and
took her hand to lead her to his house for
shelter.

VOL. III. B

That shelter was typical. She felt the secret
correspondence of her unspoken thoughts with
this translated action, and shivered as if the
snow-flakes, falling fast, had touched her heart
as well as her pallid face.

You are quite pale ! The weather is too
much for you. You ought not to be out in such
a storm," said Colonel Moneypenny with all his
best courtesy  his finest mingling of the gentleman's
dignity with the lover's tenderness.
Let us make haste up the avenue," he continued.
" "We shall soon reach the house."

Thank you," said Augusta mechanically.

As mechanically she let him take her hand
on his arm, and hold it for a moment closely
clasped, as they walked rapidly between the
leafless chestnuts which swayed and creaked in
the wind and caught the snow as it fell in
their branches like a net. The wind beat in
their faces, and the large densely-frozen flakes
stung her soft flesh as they were driven with
almost the force of hail. She knew how strange
it must seem to the Colonel that she should be
out on such a day ; stranger still that she
should have been met just at Ms gate. But it
was pleasant to feel that she had this shelter
before her  that she might, if she would, escape
once and for ever from all the present storms

of her life  both from this in the midst of
which lie walked and from that other yet more
difficult to bear at home.

She walked up the avenue with a strange
sense of possible drifting out of present pain
into temporary safety and future danger. She
felt like a person slipping down a smooth and
pleasant decline instead of continuing on a
rugged, toilsome ascent. The motion was
soothing and she shut her eyes to the rest.
The storm raged without and her mother's
house was even more inhospitable than the
elements ; she was on the Colonel's arm, making
for the shelter of his home ; and she knew that
it rested only with her to hold that shelter asher
own for ever if she would.

Nothing was said between them as they went
up the avenue. Like a wise man who knows
how to take care of himself, the Colonel objected
to opening his mouth in such weather
as this. He suffered not infrequently from
neuralgia ; and he and the dentist at Lingston
knew a few secrets which the world at large
did not even suspect. But when they came to
the house, he led her in with the same fine
mingling of courtesy and tenderness as before ;
checked only by the presence of his man from
showing perhaps too openly what pleasure her

crossing his threshold thus gave him. He did
really love her, as much as a man naturally
selfish and arbitrary, a little mean and very
irritable, can love any one outside himself; and
his hesitation, both before her marriage and
now when she was again free, was but the
ordinary hesitation of a man who has stiffened
in his widower's groove, and who has more
things to think of than one before he finally
resolves to break the spell and renew his past
in a second marriage.

He looked on this odd meeting at his own
gates as a kind of sign  a correspondence 
what some would call " a leading ; " and he
was excited and elated. That fellow whose
presumption had so disturbed him had suddenly
slipped like a snake out of his path, and
he was master of the situation. There was no
one else in Highwood or any other place whoso
far as he knew, disputed with him the
ground which he had marked out for his own.
Sandro Kemp off the field, he had the course to
himself. As for Mrs. Morshead's ferocious constancy
to the dead, that was a simple absurdity
a brutum fulmen which hurt no one. If
Augusta loved him he had almost resolved that
he would marry her. And he had money
enough to secure her future, though she

would not perhaps be quite so well off as if she
inherited from her mother. The old woman
lived on about half her income, if so much, and
invested the other. He lived up to the last
farthing of his. There was too, this little son
of his dead rival to be thought of; and perhaps
others whose claims would be greater and their
share larger. He would not make his heir of
the Professor's son, if he had his own to endow ;
but he could give the lad a good education and
see him through the first sterile years of his
profession. Pecuniarily it would not be so
good for Augusta to marry him and be disinherited
by her mother, as to remain where she
was, waiting for that weary wearing of the dead
woman's shoes. Still it would not be poverty ;
and she would make him happy.

Even at this moment of a lover's exaltation
and a lover's keen appraisement of the value of
the thing he wants, Colonel Moneypenny did
not say to himself that he would make Augusta
happy. That came as of course  as the corollary,
the reflection, the inevitable sequence to
his own state of content. Or rather it did not
enter into his calculations at all, one way or the
other. When we hire a servant or buy a horse
we do not think of the servant's happiness
under our mastership, of the horse's pleasure

under our guidance. If we give sufficient
wages to the one, good food to the other, weare
quit of all obligation ; but our own advantage
remains, as the rope on which the-whole
value of the transaction depends. The
Colonel was not the only man in England who
courting a woman with delicate devotion while
she holds herself mistress of the situation, free
to grant and able to withhold, keeps her as a
caged creature, fairly caught and trapped, when
once she has come down from her height to his
lure ; and in keeping her thus forgets to ask if
she likes her fate  and would not stop for the
answer if she did.

The drawing-room at Bellevue was, as is so
often the case in the houses of unmarried men,
reserved for state social occasions when there
were dinner-parties on hand, or one of those
pleasant little dances with supper to follow, for
which the Colonel was famous. He himself
lived in the dining-room and library, both of
which were comfortable enough ; and now, ashe
and Augusta came in from the wind and the
snow outside, the bright blazing fire and not
ungraceful litter of occupancy were as a welcome
to Home. Without doubt the library was
essentially masculine in its circumstances, and
wanted the graceful touch of a woman's hand,.

the fringe of pretty nothings which she always
adds. But it was full of the substantial luxury
which a man finds pleasant to his senses than
those spots of colour and. sparkle which are
known by the general term of ornaments. And
if the books were not what is called drawing-room
books, they were handsome and solid and
gave one the impression of stores of latent
learning in the Colonels mind, and a kind of
colossal literary digestion. It was all very
warm and strong and ample ; and the Colonel
himself seemed to gain in breadth from the
comfortable stability of his surroundings.

By this time Augusta had recovered herself.
The question had formed itself clearly in her
mind :  Should she ? or :  Should she not ?
He had enough to make her future safe if not
brilliant  enough for her son, who must be the
only heir. And she could if she would. The
house was full of capabilities if once she put
her hand to it ; her social position as his wife
would be unexceptionable ; she might even intime
win her mother over to forgiveness ; and
this fire was so comforting ! It was with a
sense of real bien-etre that she sank down in
the easy chair which he pulled up for her close
to the fender. It was not his own special
chair. That was sacred even against Augusta

Latrobe; for Colonel Moneypenny was a man
who understood the whole theory of self-respect
and practised the whole art of self-indulgence.
In her present state of moral destitution, the
mere physical enjoyment of this rest and fire,
the material sufficiency of the Colonel's home,
had a curiously soothing effect on her. As
she sank back in the long low curved chair,
and put up her pretty feet on the fender  had
she given herself time to think she would have
been ashamed of the extent to which these
purely physical pleasures touched her.

The Colonel rang the bell for cake and wine.
Unmarried men always give their lady visitors
wine. Where a woman would show her baby
the man brings out his port and sherry.
Augusta laughed a little and blushed a little
more, as she said : " No ; she did not want
any wine. She never took it before dinner,
and very little even then."

'' But," insisted the Colonel ; " you must,
indeed, Mrs. Latrobe ! The first time you have
been to my house  like this  you must have a
glass of wine for good luck ! "

He could not say that it was the first time
she had been to his house at all ; for he gave
parties, as has been said, like any other decent
citizen ; but " like this " meant her coming here

alone  coming out of the storm and inclemency
of the day  out of the wretchedness and humiliation
of her home  coming in now as the
favoured guest to be made the future mistress
should his humour finally decide that way.

I shall be glad to do anything for good
luck ! " said Augusta rashly, with a little laugh
to hide the bitter spring-head of her words.

The Colonel looked at her with an odd expression
in his face. She was quick-witted, but
she could not quite read that look.

Do you want good luck in your life ? " he
asked slowly.

Oh, no ! not much ! Not more than one
always wants something which one has not
got ! " she answered lightly. "It is only a
foolish way we all have of making ourselves
out ill-treated by fortune ! "

She thought that, if anything had to come
to her from this side, it must not be coloured
with compassion. If she herself knew that she
was simply selling herself for peace, the Colonel
must never believe but that she gave herself
grandly, to bless and be blessed.

At this moment the servant brought in the
wine, and with his own hand the Colonel
poured out a glassful and gave it to Augusta.
It was that soft, silky, insidious, old brown

sherry, which, in defiance of gout, some people
still drink. All the fire of the alcohol which
had once inflamed it had burnt itself out by
time, leaving only strength and disguising the
presence of what it left. Soft as cream and
strong as brandy, it completed the sense of
bien-etre which the pretty widow felt ; and,
after she had drunk half her glassful, she said
with a smile :

What excellent wine ! I am no great judge
of sherry, but this seems to me superb."

I am glad you like it," said the Colonel
with supreme satisfaction. " And  pardon me
you are a good judge ! This wine is indeed
excellent. It is no hyperbole to call it superb.
Ah ! " he added, as he held up his glass between
him and the light, and lovingly noted its merits
of body, bouquet and colour ; " this is not to
be had in the market now for love or money ! 
Unique !  quite unique ! And you like it ! I
am so glad 1 "

He almost laughed as he said this ; for
naturally a man does not like to throw his
wine away on an unappreciative palate ; and
women are so stupid as to the value of brands
and bins !

"Let me fill up your glass," he then said
advancing towards his guest, decanter in hand.

She drew her glass away, covering it with
her pretty black-gloved fingers, and laughing
in her nice bright way as she looked up into
his eyes.

No ! no ! " she said. " I am so little used
to wine at this time of the day ; and this is so
strong. I should be afraid."

How friendly they were getting ! To see
them there in this familiar, laughing, half-playful
kind of domesticity, no one would have
thought that for years the Colonel had cherished
against Augusta Latrobe a chronic resentment
which only so lately had taken so acute a forma
form which had done her so much irreparable
mischief at home and had dealt the
man, whom in her heart she loved, a blow that
she knew would be to him like death.

Well, finish that. It will do you good
after your cold walk," said the Colonel ; and
Augusta obeyed.

Yes, it is very good," she said, drinking it
frankly ; not with the timid little sips of a
woman half afraid of what she is about, or as
if she expected to find a spider or a newt at
the bottom of the glass. The fair widow had
just her right share of healthy, natural sensualism
 not a line in excess  just her right
and fitting share.

How warm and pleasant it was ! The two
sat over the fire in an easy, sociable, confidential
way that had its charms and warmed
their souls as the soft brown sherry warmed
their blood. The snow was falling fast, and
The Laurels looked so far off ! This interior
was so pleasant, and it composed so naturally !

How delightful it would be to have you
always here ! " said Colonel Money penny
abruptly.

She laughed in her light easy way.

I am not so sure of that," she said with
a little mocking accent  patiently artificial ; but
the colour deepened under her bonnet.

I am," said the Colonel. " My life is so
lonely ! " he added pathetically.

She moved her chair a few inches from the
fire, and took a newspaper from the table asa
screen for her face.

" Better lonely than uncongenial," she said.
The fire catches one's face so dreadfully after
a walk in the cold wind ! " she added, as if
apologizing for the ruddy glow that had come
into hers, and for the improvised screen made
out of the newspaper.

It is a melancholy look-out to live and die
alone," began the Colonel again.

This little break had somewhat baffled him ;

but he had tenacity and could always begin
where he left off.

One gets used to it," said Augusta, fluttering
through the leaves of her paper. " After
a time one gets used to everything," was her
philosophic addendum.

Not to happiness  at least not in the sense
of satiety," blundered the Colonel.

Is there any real happiness in the world ? "
asked Augusta lightly.

You need not ask this," he replied.
Capable of giving so much as you are, you
must be capable of receiving in the same proportion."


He brought his chair a couple of inches
nearer to hers, and looked into her face with
a certain agitation, a certain tenderness in his
eyes which betokened danger.

The incline was very smooth and she was
slipping down it pleasantly. After all, the
Colonel was really not a bad man. He was
irritable and arbitrary, jealous and selfish, but
he was honourable and a gentleman ; and every
woman thinks that if an unmarried man, who
is now cross-cornered and disagreeable, were
but married to her, he would be all right, and
everything would go on velvet. She could
manage him if she were his wife. And the

Colonel could not be harsher to her boy,
Augusta went on thinking, than was her own
mother. Probably he would be far less harsh
and, by the sympathy of sex, would take an
interest in him and help to make him the
honourable gentleman of her ambition.

Yes ; the incline was pleasant ; and surely
that was a firm green sward at the bottom ?
It was not a treacherous bit of swamp covered
over with a lying growth of superficial
herbage ?

She raised her pretty eyes to his with a soft
and yielding look.

A woman's best happiness," she said gently,
' is in that which she gives. What she gives
she receives back twenty fold."

Ah, how true ! How beautiful ! " he said,
with the deep-drawn breath of a man violently
moved.

He rose from his seat and went over to her ;
but just as he took her hand in both of his and
bent his head to speak, the man-servant came
into the room to tell him that he was wanted,
if he would please to come ; the constable was
in the Justice-room, and had come to speak to
him now at once.

It was the most annoying, the most mistimed
interruption that could be imagined ; and the

Colonel had only just time to let Augusta's
hand fall on her lap, while he made believe to
take a book from the table. How much the
man saw, and how much he suspected, remained
his own secret. His manner showed
nothing, and the Colonel was in a sense his
prisoner and the constable's  waiting for him
in the Justice-room.

He made a stately kind of bow to Augusta
and muttered a few formal words of apology
for his absence ; then left the room with his
man whom, if it had been policy and good
manners, he could have kicked with hearty
goodwill.

Augusta on her side, drew a deep breath
when he had gone. She raised herself from
her lounging position in the easy-chair, and
walked to the window, looking out on the fast-falling
snow, which however fell more quietly
than before. The wind had fallen and the
more active energy of the storm had passed.

She still held the paper in her hand. Partly
to relieve the awkward suspense of the moment
with its sense of check and discovery in one,
partly to divert her thoughts from the discomfort
of the home that she had and the
doubtful security of the home that she might
have if she would, she looked through the items

of news, scarcely knowing what she saw. Suddenly
a name caught her eye. Her flushed face
paled to the whiteness of that snowdrift against
the leafless rose-trees, as she read a short abstract
of the will of Henry Kemp, given as a
quotation from the paper which does this
special business. The personalty was sworn
under sixty thousand pounds ; and with the
exception of a few insignificant legacies, the
whole was left to his brother Sandro, the sole
executor and residuary legatee. The time of
poverty then had passed for him, and he was
now rich like his brothers, as he should always
have been !

And as nothing comes alone in this odd lifo
of ours  as, when fate gives one blow, fortune
adds a second and chance follows up with a
third  so, when fortune grants one boon, others
fall from the skies at every point and the
golden shower multiplies as it rains down ; 
thus, now when Sandro Kemp had come into
this sufficient inheritance, free of work, his
work was now made of supreme value. A few
paragraphs from this extract stood one which
Augusta also read, stating how Mr. Sandra
Kemp's designs for that important cathedral
had been accepted by the committee appointed
to judge the work of the competitors ; and how

grand the writer, who was reviewing their
several merits while stating this fact, held these
special designs to be. He was then rich and
famous at a blow ; and she would not marry
the Colonel.

And yet, had she not chilled and shocked,
perhaps for ever, the man whom she knew in
her own heart she loved, and who loved her ?
How could she undo that fatal past ?  how
make him understand that she had acted under
coercion, and that what she had done had been
for her child's sake and not by her own desire ?
She could not write to lira even to congratulate
him. She could not fling herself in his way
now that fortune had so richly endowed him,
seeing that she had thrust him aside when he
was still under the lash of fate. She had done
what she believed right at the time. And yet,
haunting thoughts of the sacredness of Love 
of Love the best thing in life  of Love at any
price and all the rest let go for him  of Love
before riches  of Love even before duty ; had
she not counselled this to Stella ?  of Love as
the Great God, with every other virtue, every
other affection, standing simply as his henchman
 haunting thoughts of all this divine
sacredness and of her adverse decision, came
across her brain like the echoes of a triumphal

VOL. III. c

march drowned by the mournful strain of a
funeral dirge. If only she had clung to Love
and had abjured fear and the future ! If only
she had ! And yet ; she had done for the best.
She had plucked her own breast bare and
bleeding that her child might be kept safe and
warm. It had turned out ill ; but ever and
ever she came round to that one constant point
she had done for the best. And she would
not marry the Colonel.

When Colonel Moneypenny came back from
that troublesome bit of magisterial business
which had taken him to the room he called his
Justice's-room, and the constable waiting for
that magical bit of paper duly signed and
delivered, he was made to feel, he did not know
how, that the favourable moment had passed,
that the fire had burned down into ashes, that
the vane of the pretty widow's humour was set
to another wind, and that everything was
changed.

She was her old self again  clear, candid and
inscrutable ; soft to the touch and unyielding
at the core ; sweet, sympathetic, womanly, pure
womanly in manner, but, when probed, apparently
destitute of all feeling, all romance,
all passion, all pleasant feminine weakness ;
eminently her old reasonable, well-controlled

self, whom no one could soften or warm or
deflect beyond the limits which she had marked
out for herself. The tender darkness had gone
out of her eyes ; the drooping curve had left
her lips ; her face showed no gentle indecision,
her figure no yielding lines of graceful self-abandonment.
She had gone back to her old
shape of waxen smoothness and adamantine
hardness  of crystalline clearness and crystalline
inflexibility.

She was still standing by the window as he
came in, but she had laid the paper on the
table  the page doubled inward where she
had read about Sandro Kemp.

I think the storm is passing now," she said
cheerily, her voice as clear as a silver bell and
about as soulless.

I hope not," said Colonel Moneypenny,
making an attempt to return to his interrupted
gallantries.

He spoke with a grave kind of tenderness
sufficiently obvious. She laughed in her pleasant,
light, superficial way.

We shall all be snowed up if it lasts much
longer ! " she said.

'' There might be a worse fate in store for me
than to be snowed up with you as my guest,"
said the Colonel.

She gave an affected little shiver and looked
at him with eyes exasperatingly clear.

What an awful idea ! " she said with well-acted
gaiety. " As that would never do, and
may be possible, I think I had better set out at
once. The wind has quite fallen, and a quiet
snow-shower bursts soon."

She gave a pull at her bonnet-strings which
were not untied, and smoothed down her gloves
which she had not withdrawn. These actions
were " survivals," and expressed her feeling of
' dressing to go out."

You cannot go out while this lasts," said
Colonel Moneypenny as gravely as before, but
with a certain latent heat and eagerness which
he had not the power to control, though he felt
that it was bad policy to show too much feeling
at the moment. " Why this sudden haste ? "
he asked, forcing a smile. " Come back to the
fire and make yourself comfortable again."

It is getting late," she said, glancing at the
clock. " It will soon be quite dusk."

You have a full half-hour of daylight yet,
and I will see that you are taken care of," said
the Colonel. " Come ! It really is too bad for
you to think of going yet ! "

As he spoke the door-bell rang sharply. A
trampling of feet in the hall ; a sound as of

many huge dogs shaking themselves and of at
least half a dozen men stamping themselves clear
of something that would cling ; bursts of loud
laughter ; shrill cries of high-pitched voices ;
all these were heard. And then the library-door
was flung open and George and Pattie
Pennefather, in light drab coachman's coats,
with soft felt unornamented hats and blue bird's-eye
neckties came streaming into the room ; the
two multiplied into a small crowd by the noise
and tumult and " go " of their entrance.

CHAPTER II.

TESTED FOR, TRUTH.

Upon my word ! " shouted Pip as they came
into the room and took in the situation at a
glance  the two easy-chairs drawn close up to
the fire ; the wine and cake on the table ; the
look of home and domesticity in the whole
arrangements. " Well I never !  upon my
word ! " she repeated.

Oh, you sly-boots, Augusta ! " vociferated
Gip.

And who would have thought it ? " cried
both these chartered tormentors in a breath.

Who would have thought what, girls ? "
asked the widow, with smiling unconsciousness
of possible evil.

" Oh, I say, that is coming it too strong !
Who would have thought what ? ' when we
find you sitting here like Darby and Joan, you

and the Colonel, as cozy and comfortable as you
please."

Oh ! that is what you mean. Yes ; is it not
shocking ? " returned the widow, still smiling,
in her pleasant, frank, unconscious way, as if
there were no evil possible in the world of man
and no suspicion in the mind of woman. " But
when one is caught in a storm, what is one todo
? " she added with an amiable little laugh.
Belle vue or Sherrardine, or any other place of
shelter, I can assure you, my dears ! A cowshed
in such a frightful storm as it was ! "

Oh, that is all very well," said Pip. " But
what brought you out such a day as this, I
should like to know ? Such a chimney-corner
creature as you are, what business had you to
be on the tramp in weather which every one
could see was going to be a buster ? "

Yes," echoed Gip ; '* what business had you
out at all, Mrs. Augusta ? Come, you have to
confess, you know, so you might as well
begin ! "

And what brings you two out ? " said the
widow, with the air of turning the tables. " I
think you had better begin with your confession,
and I will come after."

Oh ! we have a good reason, haven't we,
George ? " said Pip, diving into one of the

pockets of her coachman's box-coat, which she
had opened like a man, " to get the good of
when she went out again." " We have come
on an errand of charity, so we are all safe.
There is that poor old Reuben Norris, of
Barnes," she continued, pulling out a damp bit
of crumpled paper; " don't you know him ? 
the old creature with a wooden leg, and that
hard-working Jessie of a daughter who goes
out charing and more than half keeps the
house ? Well ! poor Jessie is down with
fever ; and there is old Eeuben crying about
the lane in the snow with his wooden leg and
no fire, and not a bit in the house to eat and no
one to go near poor Jessie or to boil him so
much as a potato-paring. They are all afraid,
the cowards ! So we are getting up a subscription
for them ; and we have got quite a nice
little hateful for the poor things already. And
that's why we have come here. So now that's
the whole of that. And I am sure you won't
refuse. Colonel ? " she added with what she
meant to be a coaxing accent and an irresistible
look of appeal. " You'll come down handsomely
like the rest, won't you ? "

Now, the two things most abhorrent to
Colonel Moneypenny were to be chaffed for the
one part and asked to subscribe for the other.

He was proud, sensitive, irritable, mean ; and
that these madcap hoydens should have it in
their power to talk of him, laugh at him, make
fun of the visit which had gone so near to be
one of the most serious matters of his life, and
then that they should have asked him for a
subscription in the presence of Augusta Latrobe
whose good graces, though he wished to win,
he thought dearly purchased by the gift of a
sovereign  that they should have all this in
their power annoyed and disturbed him almost
beyond his power of conventional concealment.

Well, I don't know about that," he said,
vigorously stirring the fire which wanted no
stirring at all. "I must first be convinced of
the justice of the case. You ladies, with your
charities and all the rest of it, often go beyond
the borders and do more harm than the deuce,"
he added irritably.

It did him good to have this little fling.

Oh, but Colonel Moneypenny !  poor old
Eeuben ! " said Grip, opening her eyes. Doubt,
caution, inquiry holding back till fully satisfied
as to the merits of a case  nothing of all this
came into the Pennefather category of wise
action ! " Every one knows what a hard-working
old chap he is, wooden leg and all. And
there is no mistake about Jessie. She is down

with fever as sure as ever any one was ; and
she will not do a stroke of work for a month of
Sundays. We can't be doing harm in making
up a little sum for him just to help him over the
style, poor old beggar ! "

Jessie won't be out for another ten weeks
at the earliest  Dr. Quigley says so' chimed in
Pip ; " and we thought that if we could get tenor
twelve pounds or so it would just keep them
for the time she has got to be laid by. You
can't call that pampering the people, as you are
so fond of doing."

Pauperizing ! " said Colonel Moneypenny
in a voice with a decided tendency to become a
2:rowl.

Well, pauperizing," said Pip, with a

fe

a

grimace.

You made a bad shot there, Patrick, with
your big words," shouted Grip with a laugh.

No ; that does seem a good case as you say,
girls ; does it not, Colonel Moneypenny ? " put in
Augusta with her sweet womanly reasonable
air, like a very nice-looking Themis holding the
scales evenly between the two sides.

*' Ah, you dear old thing ! What a wise
thing you are, Augusta ! " said Grip, giving the
widow an affectionate hug. The Doves were
odd girls in the wholesale way in which they

identified themselves with any " case " like this
of poor old Reuben Norris. They made it their
own ; and " worked it " with a superabundance
of zeal and eagerness  including animosity for
those who did not join with them, and overflowing
affection and gratitude for those who act.
I always say to every one that Augusta
Latrobe is out and out the best sort here," she
added, addressing space and universe. " You
are not a sneak," she went on, turning back to
the concrete and the widow. " You are always
fair and above board, and we all know what you
are after ! "

Her tone, as she said this, was harsh and
bitter. It did no good to shoot out her arrows
against Stella when neither the girl herself nor
her special friend and admirer, Yal, was there.
But it soothed her angry passion for just the
moment; and no one cared nor noticed.

You are very kind to say so," said Augusta,
that pretty pale pink flush in her cheeks, for
which she was famous, deepening a little uncomfortably.
" At all events, I am a true
friend," she added prettily, looking at the sisters ;
but she meant Colonel Moneypenny to profit by
the application. He had to be flung overboard,
and she would not stint soft words before the
hard deed of his immolation. " Now to business.

What subscriptions are you making ?
How much do you want ? What am I to put
down ?"

This ready offer of service and conformity
with the general rule was magnanimous on
Augusta's part. Her mother allowed her only
thirty pounds a year for her own dress and
menus plaisirs ; just the same sum as she had
when she. was eighteen. And though the old
woman took on herself the charge of the child's
wardrobe, still, there were many little expenses
for him which naturally fell on Augusta and
which she could not carry over to the great
account. Hence, she was emphatically " badly
off;" and any kind of subscription told on her
slender finances heavily. All the same she
said : " What am I to put down ? " with the air
of one who had thousands at the back of her
2oor little shabby tens.

Well, every one has given a sovereign as
yet," said Pip in a doubtful tone.

She knew that Augusta was always hard upas
they called it ; and though she wanted toland
the Colonel's gold she was sorry to have to
bait with Augusta's.

Then I will give a sovereign also," said the
widow with the tranquil stoicism of the Red
Indian who parts with his pound of flesh.

You are a darling ! " said Gip.

It is a large subscription," said the Colonel
discontentedly. " Half-a-crown would have
been ample ! "

Oh ! we were not enough for that," said
Pip. " We will bring in the little fishes after we
have gaffer the big ones. The half-crowns and
sixpences will come in when we have tackled all
the gold we can collar. So now. Colonel, if you
please. Shall I say two, as you are the only
gentleman among us ? "

No," said the Colonel shortly. " One is
seventeen and sixpence too much ! "

"Oh!" cried Pip. "What an awful old
screw you make yourself out to be, Colonel,
when every one knows you are as generous as
you please. Don't give yourself a bad character ;
and come, down with your sub handsomely."

Colonel Moneypenny's face was, what stupid
people call, " a study." He hated the Penne-father
slang and rolling as bitterly as did old
Mrs. Morshead herself; he was angry at the
interruption and revolted at having to give his
money ; but he was in a trap and there was noway
of escape. Sullenly he brought out his
purse and had a difficulty with the clasp. When
he had got it fairly open he fingered all his gold
pieces one after the other, rejecting this and

that till he finally chose the one which was
most worn and defaced. This he handed to
Gip, with a cross : " There ! " expressive of
anything rather than the generosity for which
Pattie had so mischievously given him credit.

No, not to Codlin  to Short," shouted
Pattie. " I'm treasurer, and George only does
the touting. Very much ta' ! " she added, as she
took the money from her sister and put it loose
into her box-coat pocket. " Now, your name,
Colonel ; and yours too, Augusta, please ; just
there  under the Branscombe fist. Shall I
bracket them ? " she asked audaciously after
they were written ; " and put Belle vue after
both?"

What a child you are, Pattie!" said Augusta,
with the most careless good humour  but how
her cheeks burned !

"" Patrick, mind your manners," shouted her
sister.

What's the harm ? " said Pattie innocently.
There's no harm, is there, Colonel ? Augusta
is here, isn't she ? "

So are you. Miss Pennefather," answered
Colonel Moneypenny with what he meant to
be a significant manner.

Yes, we are ; but George and I don't count
with you," returned Pip.

And at this both the Doves laughed as at an
exquisite joke till the Colonel speculated privately
on the possibility of turning them bodily
out of his house, and retaining his gentlefolk at
the same time.

Grip, not actively engaged in the little skirmish
of wits and having to fulfil only the light
duties of laughing chorus, had been looking
round the room, her bold black roving eyes
searching everywhere, hungry for something to
fasten on for " chaff." She saw the newspaper
lying on the table ; and took it up. It was the
same as that which they affected at Sherrardine
and of which she religiously skimmed the
smaller items of news every morning.

Oh, Augusta," she shouted ; " did you see
that your old flame, Sandro Kemp, has had a
fortune left him ? His brother has died and
Sandro has come in for all the tin. And he
has come in too, for no end of kudos for something
he has done  I don't know what exactly ;
a church or a workhouse, or something ; but it
seems a very fine set-out according to the paper.
Ain't you glad ? I am. He was always a good
fellow, though he was as dull as old boots. He
was heavy, and no mistake ! I shall never
forget him at our picnic in the summer. He
was that dismal  I never saw ! Still, I am glad

that he has tumbled into all these good things 
am t you ?

Colonel Moneypenny's thin and puckered
face became livid ; Augusta's, fair, smooth, soft,
was crimson.

*' Indeed ? " she said with as much ease as
she could assume ; but her breath was the least
in the world interrupted. 

I should have thought you would have
known first of all people. You and he were
always such chums together," said Gip, withall
her old spirited audacity, laughing and
twinkling her bold bright eyes as she spoke.

Augusta laughed too.

I was always supposed to be Mr. Kemp's
mysterious confidante," she said quite pleasantly
; " but I knew no more of him than the
rest. However, I am glad of his good fortune."

You hadn't seen it ? " said Gip with no
ulterior motive. "It is in this very paper,"
fluttering the leaves.

Is it ? I had the paper in my hand," said
Augusta with deliberate prevarication and
intention to mislead.

It was odd you did not see it," said Colonel
Moneypenny speaking slowly, his eyes levelled
at that fair and practically mendacious face, and
his bitter voice full of doubt.

"I should, if I had read it," she answered
smiling'.

But for all her self-control, and though she
tried, she could not look into the Colonel's face
when she spoke.

He will be quite a swell now ! " said the
innocent mischief-maker with a loud laugh.
My goodness ! fancy old Sandro Kemp a
swell! He will not be his old stupid self if
he's a swell ! " she said with another peal, in
which her sister joined.

He had better return here, if he has money.
He went, I remember, suddenly  they said he
ran away from his creditors," said the Colonel,
biting off each word and speaking with uncontrollable
malice and spite.

Did he, now ? " answered Gip meditatively.
I didn't think that. Colonel. I think old
Kemp was an honest old chap. Mrs. Prinsep
says so  though he was as dull as old boots
and as heavy as lead."

And I don't ; and I have good reason to
know," said Colonel Moneypenny viciously.

And his falsehood, though indirect, was a
worse crime than Augusta's, which was apparently
the more brazen and sinful.

Well, we never know who's who ! " half
sighed Grip, from the sorrowful experience of

VOL. III. D

Yal's defection and Stella's uneasiness. " At
all events," she added, turning again to Augusta
with that odd kind of sudden affection which
meant less love for her than a blow at these
two absent sinners : " You are true, Augusta ;
you are not a sneak ; you don't tell lies ; you
wouldn't say one thing and mean another and
change your mind half a dozen times a day !
And you wouldn't pretend to care for one man
when all the time you were bringing on
another ! "

No," said Augusta, just as she had said
' No " to her knowledge of Sandro Kemp's
good fortune.

Well, girls," said Pip suddenly ; ''if you
are going to stay here all day I'm not. I have
to go. You may do as you like."

All right, Patrick," said Gip ; " I'm ready.
We can leave Augusta," she added slily.

No ; I am coming too," said the widow ;
and the Colonel this time made no objection.

The fire had burned out in very truth and
only dull dead ashes were left. And yet how
near a thing it had been !  how near !

The irruption of these curly-headed savages
was so far to Augusta's good, in that she was
able to answer her mother and bafEe her, while
giving an account of herself that should conceal

what she did not wish to have known without
the need of another direct falsehood. This
dangerous weapon of defence the poor widow
reserved as a last resource on grand and
perilous occasions. Had she been rebuked, she
would have justified herself by saying that she
never told untruths when she could possibly
avoid it. True, she did not always tell all tjiat
was ; but reticence was not necessarily falsehood
; and Mrs. Morshead was undoubtedly a
dangerous woman in whom to confide. And
then Augusta made the distinction which many
others make between active and negative falsehoods
; also between those which do harm to
others and those which only protect ourselves.

When she had taken off her walking-things,
and been for a little time with her boy  whom
she found crying for her return, restless, feverish,
peevish and unlike himself  she went into the
drawing-room to her mother. The red fire was
low in the grate, a mass of flameless cinders
giving heat but no light ; the lamp had not yet
been brought in ; the shutters were not closed ;
the curtains were not drawn ; out of doors could
be seen only the black branches of the leafless
trees, the solemn whiteness of the snow, the
grey look of the sky ; within, was the lonely
old woman, there in the dim light of the

melancholy evening, sitting silent and stiff in
her high-backed chair like a grim sentinel of
sorrow, without work in her hands as without
joy or love or gladness in her life. She was
quite alone. Even her cat had left her, and
she had dismissed her maid sharply. She was
glooming over her daughter's prolonged absence,
and fearing she scarcely knew what ; reproaching
her bitterly by her voluntary thoughts, but
reproaching herself more bitterly in her involuntary
conscience.

The dull lifelessness of it all  the want of
brightness, of welcome, of the sense of home
and peace, struck on the widow with painful
force. It seemed to her that she was returning
to her prison, if not her grave. And after that
glance of possible companionship with Colonel
Moneypenny  that dream, spoilt as it was, of
possible happiness with Sandro  this miserable,
uncongenial, loveless home was a veritable
torture. Anything rather than this !  yes, for
herself, anything ! But her boy, her little son
for him she must still suffer and be strong.

Oh, that is you, is it ? " said Mrs. Morshead,
as she came in, with the child in her hand.
And where have you been all this time, I
should like to know ? I was just beginning to
wonder if you ever meant to condescend so far

as to come home at all or no. Going out on
such a day as this ! One would think you had
St. Titus's dance and could not sit still ! Where
have you been, I say ? " sharply.

I came home with the Pennefather girls,"
said Augusta prevaricating.

Well, you are the most extraordinary young-woman
I ever saw, and the most inconsiderate ! "
said Mrs. Morshead. " You go out and come
in just as you like, and treat me with no more
consideration than if I were a shoeblack. You
never ask my leave, but just go tramping about,
here and there, as if you were mistress of
everything and I had nothing to do but to
find money and food and clothing for you and
that boy of yours. Troublesome little toad !
I have heard him crying at least a dozen times
since you went out. What you are made of I
can't think, to go and leave the poor fellow as
you do. You are an odd kind of mother, I
must say ! Like daughter like mother  and soit
is, sure enough."

Hush, mother," said Augusta with strange
and sudden sternness. " I cannot bear it ! You
must not, you must not ! " she added, her voice
full of something so unusual to her, so unnatural,
that her little boy squared his lips
almost in fear, and her mother very nearly

started. It was like a transformation  the
sudden putting on of a wolf's fangs in the
lamb, of an eagle's beak and claws in the dove.

Well, I'm sure ! "What next, I should like
to know ? I am not mistress in my own house,
I suppose ? I am not the owner ? You are a
bad-tempered and impertinent girl, that is what
you are ; but you always were, so I suppose
I must put up with it. But don't let me have
any more of your insolence, for / cannot bear
it ; and so I tell you ! And perhaps you will
be so very condescending as to ring the bell
for the lamp, if it is not asking too much of
you ! "

The words were aggravating and harsh
enough ; and the voice was no softer than the
words ; but by that certain subtle something
in her manner which tells of defeat, even when
a brave front is kept, Augusta knew that her
mother had been dominated and that for the
next few hours there would be no more active
insult.

The day had been so full of emotion, of
distress, of false security and real danger, of
regret and excitement generally, that the
naturally calm nerves and quiet self-command
of the widow had broken under the strain and
she found herself unable to bear the old woman's

acrid Immour with her usual serenity. Her
mother recognized the strain also, and was wise
enough not to hang on it more than she could
help, so that the next few hours did, as Augusta
expected, pass in comparative quietness. The
little fellow sat in his mother's lap amused by
a book of pictures, either not speaking at all
or speaking below his breath ; but he was
languid and very feverish, and Augusta had
some difficulty in keeping him from being-fretful
 which would have drawn down on him
the wrath of his grandmother, always so ready
to be drawn down on his poor little sunny
head !

Later in the evening however, he seemed to
grow so much worse that when Augusta came
from putting him to bed she said with a whiteface
:

Tony seems very ill to-night, mamma ; will
you let me send for Dr. Quigley ? "

What has the child got ? " snapped the old
woman. " He is always ill, or something ! "

I do not know, but he is feverish and certainly
very much out of sorts. His little hands
are burning and his face is as hot as fire,"
answered Tony's mother, trembling.

Oh, it is nothing ! You make such a fuss
about him ! It is only a feverish cold that he

has. Give him a little sweet spirits-of-nitre
and wrap him up well. You would take him
out the other day when I told you not, and
warned you ; so now you are punished for your
obstinacy, as I said you would be."

Mrs. Morshead gave her shawl the well-known
twitch when she said this, and seemed
prepared for a quarrel.

That was ten days ago. He took no cold
then, and this is not a feverish cold," said
Augusta firmly. 'I think Dr. Quigley ought
to be sent for," she repeated.

You are not over thoughtful for that poor
man, nor for any one else  sending out on
such a night as this," said Mrs. Morshead.

May I ask John to go ? " repeated Augusta.

I don't believe there's the smallest occasion,"
answered the old woman. " You frighten yourself
for nothing at all about that child. If his
finger aches you think he is going to die, and
it is the doctor here and the doctor there ; such
nonsense ! "

If I may not send John I must go myself,"
said Augusta with her well-known quiet
tenacity ; " but I want to stay with my boy."

Oh ! have your own way, for goodness'
sake, and don't worry me any more ! " said Mrs.
Morshead angrily. " Send for Dr. Quigley, ora

dozen doctors if you like  send for Dr. Mann,
from Lingston, now at once if you choose  but
for mercy's sake do let me have a little peace !
I am sick to death of all this noise and confusion.
Of all the worrying, troublesome girls
I ever met in my life, Augusta, you are the
worst ; and do leave me in peace ! "

So the doctor was sent for, and when he
same he would not give a decided opinion.

' It is fever," he said.

But whether it would turn out to be measles,
scarlet-fever, or something else, neither he nor
any one else could tell at this early stage. All
that the mother knew was, that her little boy
was ill and that she must stand between him
and death  if she could.

Chapter III.

TURNING THE KNIFE.

It would not have been the Pennefathers if
they had not sent over to Jack in exile all the
news which they could scrape together. Still
less would it have been they if they had not
widened all the borders and deepened all the
lines, so that everything should be presented in
such vivid colours as would " amuse the poor
old chap " and give him a good grip on things
as they were at the old place. And among the
rest they told him all about Valentine Cowley's
shameful and outrageous conduct in " following
up " Stella Branscombe ; though why shameful
and outrageous they forgot to explain. And
then they launched out into denunciations of
Stella's horrible " uneasiness " in allowing
herself to be followed up at all, and her sinful
humbug in bringing Yal on as she did while

pretending all the time that she did not. That
Stella was this sneak which they determined to
prove her, they still further evidenced by saying,
in true Pennefather style, how she was never
out of Ran Mac's pocket, and how Ran followed
her about like a shadow, and looked at Yal just
as one dog looks at another with a bone
between. " And for the matter of that," said
Gip, who was the scribe on this occasion :
Stella Branscombe is little better than a bone
such a lean, scraggy, washed-out thread-paper
as she has grown ! What Yal or anyone
else can see in her I can't tell ; and no one
else can so far as I can make out ! Little
wretch she is ! "  Grip went on to say, indignation
running off with her pen like an unbitted
horse ; " there is Yal making up to her no end,
and looking such a loon when he does !  and
Ran is never out of her pocket ; and she is all
the while putting on lackadaisical fine-lady
airs as if she were breaking her heart for that
good-for-nothing Cyril over in India. Isn't ita
screaming farce ?  a screaming shame, too ! "
Such a multiplicity of adorers was indeed an
offence against good morals in the Pennefather
code, because it was an offence against justice
and good fellowship, fair dealing and doing by
others as you would be done by. And these

are virtues of the first magnitude in a society
mainly composed of marriageable maidens
where, if things are to hold together at all, the
-whole duty of a girl is to be content with her
own lover and not to poach on her neighbours'
preserves.

And as Stella Branscombe, whether wilfully
or innocently  they said wilfully  had offended
against this code, and [had poached on George
Pennefather's preserves, it was only right and
fitting that she should be '' trounced ; " and
trounced she was accordingly.

If such a letter as this from the old home
was as of course, it was also as of course that
Jack should ride over to Cyril the day after its
reception, to pour out all the gossip contained
therein as a sieve would let down a bucket of
water. There was not the slightest intention
of paining Cyril or of doing Stella any harm
by this generous transfer of High wood news.
Jack was too kind-hearted to intentionally hurt
any one ; but he had the Pennefather sensitiveness
and want of imagination ; and facts
were to him the only things in the world. It
would have been to him like taking aim at a
cloud had he been asked to allow for feelings in
his dealings with facts. If Stella and Yal were
putting their horses' heads together, they were,

and there was no use in denying it ; and if Ran
lived in her pocket, and went after her like a
shadow, and looked at Yal across her shoulders
as a dog looks at another over a bone, he did ;
and there was no use in denying' that either.
So he presented both items of news to Cyril ; ashe
would have told him that a certain cricket-match
had been lost, or a certain boat-race had
been won ; and left him to make the best of
them at his leisure.

The result was a letter to Randolph which
pained that faithful chum even more than had
the former whereof the eloquent omissions had
made poor Stella cry. It was a mad, wild,
wicked letter, suggestive of everything rather
than an honest man's rightness of life or a
gentleman's nobility of feeling. It was a
letter which seemed as if Cyril must have been
out of his sober self when he wrote it ; or as if,
which was worse, his physical sense being-straight,
his mind had gone aslant and his soul
had become poisoned by recklessness and vice.
In it he spoke of Randolph's secretaryship and
devotion to the Branscombe family with a
ferocious disdain which made Pylades wince.
It did not comfort him to say to himself that
the keynote of this ferocity was jealousy ; and
that Orestes, banished and dispossessed, would

have been neither ferocious nor jealous had he
not still been in love. We do not reason on the
exact shape of a wound while we are smarting
from the pain ; and the rough, rude and
sneering tone of this letter was a wound to the
P'ood friend who had made himself the watchdog
guarding the absent chum's ewe lamb from
the wolves. Perhaps Asmodeus might have
whispered with a laugh : Quis custodis ?
Failing Asmodeus the honest fellow's loyalty
was without a flaw, and the return was  this
black ingratitude !

But so much may be said for Cyril  to people
at a distance the most exaggerated reports come
like gospel truths, and few stop to sift or
analyze. And he was not one of those few.
He had always had unbounded trust both in
Eandolph and Stella ; but he knew human
nature, he said to himself after the manner of
those who blaspheme it, and he was prepared
for treachery even from him, and for infidelity
even from her. "Wherefore he first chaffed
Py lades about the secretaryship, and then he
added :  " From what I hear however, you
cannot be going for the gloves, as the fair lady
in question has apparently made her choice;
and the two strings to her bow, of which you
are only one, poor old man ! have coalesced into

a single line of catgut  Mr. Valentine Cowley !
They say that orange-blossoms may be looked
for in that quarter before long. I should like to
have a square inch of the bride-cake, just to see
how it looks." Then, warming to his mad work,
one thought engendering another and fear
exaggerating doubt, he added an unworthy bit
of moral bravado, which was essentially despair,
and said :  " Well ! I am no dog in the manger.
As I cannot marry Miss Stella Branscombe
myself, I hope she will find her happiness with
Mr. Valentine Cowley, though I would rather
she had chosen you. So you see, old fellow,
the sublime state of philosophy to which I have
brought myself. Give me credit for the
endeavour. And read this to Stella. I wish
it. It will set to rest any little lingering feeling
that she may still have for me, and I owe it to
myself that she should not think I am breaking
my heart for her or because of this marriage.
Having once thrown me over all the rest comes
easy." And then he added : " Perhaps I shall
follow her example myself one of these days.
We have no end of nice girls floating about
here ; and a man might do worse than take one
of them to himself. We shall see. At all
events, it is on the cards."

This letter placed Randolph in a difficult

position. He was one of those blindly-faithful
men who obey against their own better reason.
If Cyril commanded him to tell Stella what he
had said, Eandolph saw no way out of the
obligation. The whole thing was a frightfully
painful tangle from first to last ; but, coupled
with Jack's reports of Cyril's " goings on " with
Mrs. White, it did really seem a renunciation of
the past and the playing away of trust after
hope ! And perhaps, if Cyril had really not
only given up all claim on Stella, but all desire
of future holding, it would be better to tell her,
so that she should not break her heart for a
man who had so satisfactorily patched up his
own.

All the same, Eandolph knew that nothing
was really " on " between Stella and Valentine
Cowley ; and he could not very well show her
what Cyril had said about himself. But he had
to tell her something. And even if he had
decided on keeping silence his manner would
have betrayed him, as it always did when any
trouble brooded over his face and his heart, like
a fog between earth and sky.

Since that evening at the Lyons', Cyril's name
had not been mentioned at Eose Hill. Mr.
Branscombe had contented himself with a few
slighting allusions to false gods and women

who declined on lower levels ; and Hortensia
had taken occasion once or twice to declaim
against the wickedness of modern youth in
general, and to say how far the men of the
elder generation surpassed them in nobility and
refinement. To all of which Stella had given a
calm and impersonal kind of assent, as to
vague propositions which had no special
application to her ; while stiffening her slender
neck so that no one should see what she felt or
if indeed she felt anything at all. Those cruel
words were the cross on which she hung the
garlands of her faith, of her denial, her constancy,
her love. She would as soon have denied her
religion as have doubted Cyril Ponsonby  an
unspoiled woman having at least this advantage
over the nobler sex, in that " knowledge of
human nature " does not include with her
pessimistic unbelief or blasphemous denial.
She may be ignorant, enthusiastic, credulous,
blind. Be it so. She has for compensation the
happiness of ever living with her ideal
enthroned in the innermost recesses of her
heart  of holding the man whom she has once
loved to be ever worthy of her love  and she
escapes the pain of doubting the divine, and
the sacrilege of making war on her gods.

Her eyes made quick by suffering and keen

VOL. III. E

by love, Stella saw that something ailed her
good friend and self-appointed watch-dog  her
father's secretary and Cyril's representative.
She guessed at once that it had reference to
Cyril. Cyril  and all that grew about him as
the suckers from a rosebush, the shoots of a vine
were the Alpha and Omega of her relations
with Randolph. She was his Star to him ; he
was only the reflection of her Love to her.
Were Cyril to pass out of her memory Randolph
would pass out of her life, as the shadow
fades away when the sun goes down. While
the one lived and was loved  and while he lived
he would be loved !  his friend would be hers,
because part of himself by association. To love
Randolph was one way of expressing love for
Cyril ; just as if this good and faithful Pylades
had been a horse or a dog which Cyril had
confided to her hands, and which was therefore
sacred to her because it had been dear to
him.

Hence, when she saw that something was
amiss with Randolph she thought of Cyril ;
and when she said : " Randolph, what is the
matter ? " she did not mean " with you ? " but
with Cyril ? "

Why do you ask, Miss Stella ? " he said in
confusion.

Because I can see that something is wrong,"
was her reply.

I wish you had not asked ! " he said again,
looking at her sorrowfully.

But you must tell me," she returned with a
certain serious authority, a certain gentle
queenliness which it was impossible for him to
disobey.

Nevertheless, though he knew he must yield
in the end, he hung back now and hesitated,
unwilling to strike the blow which would pain
her so acutely.

I would rather not," he said reluctantly.

Tell me," she said again with her gentle
leremptoriness.

I have heard from Cyril," he began ; and
then he stopped. At that moment he realized
the whole anguish of Jephthah, the tragic
obedience to his vow to Agamemnon.

Well ? from Cyril," she repeated ; the
colour deepening on her face, but no glad smile
on her lips, no sunshine or delight in her eyes.
"What does he say? What does he write
about ? " she asked.

He has heard something about Valentine
Cowley," said Randolph with the blundering
honesty of a faithful servant doing his duty and
devoid of tact.

W..!!. OF \LUN01S

The blood left lier face and then came back
till her cheeks burned as if with fever.

Yes ? " she said, as quietly as she could
speak. " What has he heard ? "

That you are engaged and going to be
married," said Eandolph.

Now the worst was over. The murder was
out and no more remained behind !

Does he believe it ? " asked Stella, speaking
slowly.

He hung his head. This feeling of relief and
the worse known was premature. The poison-bag
had yet another drop ; and he must empty
it on her heart.

Yes," he answered in a low voice.

Hg does ?  He believes it, Eandolph ? "

"Yes."

She was silent for a few moments, silent
because a little stunned. It was a cruel return
for her own faith in him. She had refused to
believe a word to his discredit, and she had
defended him publicly in the face of the world.
At the first lying report, his faith in her had
gone into dust and he believed her capable of
an act of infidelity which with her took rank
as a crime.

And what does he say ? " she asked after
a pause-she

too must turn the knife in her wound
after the manner of the tortured.

"He sends his congratulations," said Randolph
; " and hopes sou will be happy."

He wants me to marry ? "

'* He did not say that he wanted you to
marry," he answered.

'' But he does not disapprove ? "

No ; he does not disapprove."

And he congratulates me ? "

Yes ; he congratulates you," repeated the
poor watch-dog sadly.

She held her head high. An odd look of
pride struggled with her pain, and on the
whole perhaps, overcame it.

I shall never marry Valentine Cowley, who,
in the first place, has not asked me," she said ;
*but do not say so to Cyril," she added imperiously.
" If he doubts me he must ; but I
will not do anything to undeceive him. You
will do as I say, Randolph ? You will not tell
him that it is all a mistake, and that I am not
going to be married to any one ? If you say
anything about me, merely say that you told
me ; and nothing more. You will do this ? "
she asked again.

Yes," he answered humbly.

Nothing about me ; nothing ; not a word ! "

she repeated passionately. "Only that you
gave me his message. It was a message, Randolph,
was it not ? "

Yes," he said, still so humble in his consciousness
of crime and cruelty. " He said I
was to tell you."

Well, say that you told me  that you gave
me his message and that I said nothing,"
reiterated Stella, her passion deepening. " I
rely on you to do this."

You may ; I will do just as you say," he
answered. " Oh, how sorry I am about it all I
What miserable work all this gossips is ! "

"- He will know better some day," she said
with vehemence and pride together. Then,
suddenly relaxing into the self-pity of surprise
at his distrust, she added tremulously : "I
should have thought he would have known
better now."

And with this her passion broke ; the unnatural
strain relaxed ; and she hurried from
the room because she could not control her
weakness and did not wish even her good
friend and watch-dog to discover it.

It was a fair and sunny afternoon, and Hortensia
Lyon was with them as one of the
family. Indeed she was now almost as much
one of the Branscombe family as of her own.

Eandolph had done his work for the day and
had been dismissed ; and the three sat in the
study in spite of Dr. Quigley and his advice 
an artistic fever-fit being at this moment strong
on Mr. Branscombe. Stella was paler even
than usual, pallid as she always was ; and a
certain feverish irritability of manner, a certain
strained hardness of expression made her as
unlike her ordinary self as this cruel distrust
was unlike the Cyril of her love. Her voice
had a thin metallic ring in it, which of itself
betrayed suffering ; for when the naturally hard
become unnaturally soft, and the soft make
themselves hard, then we may know that the
shadowy arrow has struck and that the wound
is bleeding inwardly. And at this moment
poor Stella's heart was bleeding in such sort
that all her joy, all her hope and peace and
happiness and love, now and to come, seemed
ebbing away for ever. But she was brave
through it all, and gave no other sign than
was to be found in this curiously hard and
feverish manner, this thin metallic ring in her
voice.

Have you heard that Mrs. Latrobe's little
boy is very ill ? " asked Hortensia, breaking the
silence which had fallen on the trio.

It was a silence which had come upon an

interchange of flatteries between the elderly
idol and his young devotee, wherein each had
presented the other with a piece of moral embroidery
of unusual brilliancy, and both had
accepted the offering with perfect good faith in
its fitness.

Hortensia was at this moment sitting to
Mr. Branscombe as Una. His model for the lion
was one of those natural-history cards which
are published for schools and coloured by the
intelligent foreman of the printing-works.
Mr. Branscombe had enlarged the copy and
gone beyond the foreman in his reds and
browns ; so that he had made a very queer-looking
thing on the whole, like nothing so
much as a pincushion. Una was a respectable
marionnette, a little dislocated ; but the original
was charmed with herself as seen on the canvas,
and, her mind bringing the desire to find perfection,
she found it.

Have you heard of it, Stella ? " asked Hortensia,
in the patronizing tone which had become
habitual to her now when addressing her
elderly idol's unsatisfactory daughter.

No," answered Stella, taken out of her own
thoughts as by a violent wrench. " Ashen did
you hear it ?  and when was he taken ill ? "

*' A few days ago. I know it from the

Pennefathers. They called yesterday about a
subscription for that old Eeuben Norris who
lives out at Barnes, and they told us. The
little boy has some kind of dreadful fever. I
do not know what it is, but he is very ill and
Dr. Quigley thinks rather seriously of him."

I should like to go and inquire," said Stella,
rising with nervous haste.

My dear, unreasonable, impulsive child ! 
a malignant fever of an unknown character,
and you entering the house ? Is that wise, my
little daughter ? " asked Mr. Branscombe, in a
sweetly repressive manner  wisdom laying a
large cool hand on the feverish head of folly.
A note by a servant will be sufficient."

Should I run any danger, papa, by simply
inquiring at the door ? " asked Stella.

She was so unhappy herself, she felt as if
she must go to Augusta who was even more
unhappy. Community of sorrow seems somehow
to soothe and lighten individual pain ; and
the folly of all this flattery between her father
and Hortensia, always revolting, jarred on her
to-day almost beyond bearing. If Randolph
Mackenzie had been there she might have endured
it better. As it was, the irritation that
it roused in her was more than she could well
suppress. She did not know how it had come

about, but always, always now, she found herself
set in some kind of antagonism to her
father. And as for Hortensia  had she been
able to do as she would, she would have cut
short their friendly intimacy to a handshake
on the Sunday, and would have felt the cessation
of their daily intercourse almost as restful
as sleep.

No ; you must not go," said Mr. Branscombe
with less suavity and more decision.

But, papa " began Stella.

If your father says not, Stella ? " said
Hortensia with a grave reproving air.

My dear, do as you are bid ;  write a note
and send it by the groom'* said Mr. Branscombe
with still less suavity and still more
decision. " Take a pattern from your excellent
little friend and do not for ever dispute my will
in this childish manner."

Stella did not answer. She felt terribly
rebellious and impatient, and wanted to break
out into open wrath against this excellent little
friend ; but she bit her lips with a vexed air ;
held her peace ; and wrote her note to Augusta
saying that she would, if she could, call at the
house tomorrow to learn all particulars. Then
she sealed her envelope and sent off the note
by the servant, and took up a piece of embroidery

which suddenly had become as distasteful
as everything else in life.

Hortensia was sitting absolutely like a statue.
Her eyes were as fixed as if they had been of
glass. Save for the light rise and fall of the
severely-cut gown, covering her small childish
bosom, she might have been a clothed and
painted statue, lifeless for all eternity.

How can you sit so still ? I declare you
do not even wink," suddenly cried Stella with
odd petulance. " I should stiffen into stone if
I sat as you do."

But then I am not impatient," said Hortensia.
" It is no trouble to me to sit still and
think."

You are the most perfect model in all
respects," said Mr. Branscombe enthusiastically.
You were born for the studio."

You are so good to say so ! I am always
so pleased when I do anything that pleases you
so proud to be praised by you ! " said Hortensia
with maidenly modesty, but turning her
eyes on Mr. Branscombe with their well-known
look of adoration.

My praise will not content you for long, I
am afraid," returned Finery Fred with a tender
and regretful kind of gallantry, a marshalling,
as it were, of his sixty winters in front of her

nineteen summers. " Some day others, more
appropriate, will give you the happiness that
you ought to have ; hut none will he so sincere
as those of your old friend at Rose Hill."

Yours will content me for ever," said Hortensia,
humble, devout, adoring.

He turned to her with a smile. It was the
smile of handsome Fred Branscombe when he
had picked up another foolish, fluttering little
heart and was holding it in his hand as a
study.

Stella flushed to the roots of her hair. She
felt that things could not go on long as they
were. Her dislike of Hortensia was growing-daily,
and would soon hurst through the present
bounds of prudence and reserve. She could
not bear it much longer  she knew that she
could not ! Irritable, nervous, sore as she was
to-day, this sentimental flirtation between her
father and the little Puritan tried her to the
utmost. She did not see it as flirtation  that
is not the word which she would have given it.
She saw it more as an encroachment on her
own domain, and was jealous, not of the future
but of the present.

I shall become quite jealous of you, Hortensia,"
she said in a forced manner  forced
because attempting to be gay and careless while

in reality she was angry and disturbed. " You
make too much of papa."

"What an odd think' to sav ! " said Hortensia,
opening her eyes with her now usual
look of reproof. " Can any one make too much
of your father ? "

* His daughter apparently thinks so," said
Mr. Branscombe, with what was meant to be a
pained but always generous smile of magnanimity.


"I do not like any one to take my place,"
said Stella, laying her hand on her father's
arm.

Then ou are not going to be jealous ; you
are so already," returned Hortensia with prim
logic. " And to be jealous is to be naughty."

I am not apt to feel things without a cause.
If I am jealous I have cause," said Stella, with
her array of logic.

'' You have no cause, my dear Stella," said
her father gravely.

People are often jealous for no reason
whatever. And Stella has none to be jealous
of poor little insignificant me," said Hortensia
with the deepest humility, tears coming into
her eyes as she spoke.

No daughter would like to feel that she
was being supplanted," said Stella, flashing out

the secret fire which was so difficult to damp
down.

"It is too bad of you to say that ! " said
Hortensia angrily. " How cruel you are,
Stella ! I did not think you could have been
so cruel ! "

Hush ! hush, my children ! " broke in Mr.
Branscombe's level, artificial voice. " What a
pair of foolish young creatures you are ! " he
added with a not displeased smile. He rather
liked indeed, this little passage of arms of
which he had been the cause, though it was
only between a couple of children  of whom
one was his own daughter. Still, it was better
than nothing ; and undoubtedly it both soothed
and inspirited him. But now he turned to
Stella.

My dear," he said with his well-worn
urbanity of manner ; "no daughter need fear
to be supplanted so long as she does her duty.
While you are conscious of doing your duty ina
whole-hearted and unbroken chain of thoughts
and actions, be not afraid of your charming
little friend here, nor of any other. The fear
and the remedy lie in your own hands. Your
position with your father depends on yourself
alone. Jealousy is the mark of a vulgar mind
tint a bad conscience ; I do not wish to think

you possess the one or the other. And now,
my dear Una, attention, if you please. I am
just at the delicate curves of your exceedingly
dainty and difficult little mouth, and it is
essential that we have peace and quiet. My
Genius is a very Egeria, and needs the sweet
influence of repose if she is to guide my hand
to good work. So please remain as you are.
You are perfect, my little friend  absolutely
perfect ! "

CHAPTER lY.

TAKING BREATH.

The next few weeks passed quietly. Local
history stood still, and nothing was afloat save
the illness of Mrs. Latrobe's child, and the
speculations of the neighbours as to whether
Dr. Quigley would pull the little fellow through
or no. Winter was slowly passing into spring 
very slowly indeed  like the tardy waking of
a sluggard who will not raise himself to active
life ; and the moment was emphatically one of
suspended animation and taking breath all
round.

To Stella it was as if she had come into a
strange phase of existence where she had to
learn a new language and forget her old songs.
She and Randolph Mackenzie had now nothing
to say to each other, and spent their time, when
they were together, in staring blankly at the

dead past. The fertile theme of converse was
closed against them, and they stood in dumb
distress before the shut gates of their forbidden
pleasance. Cyril, who had been their one inexhaustible
subject of living talk, lay now asa
dumb, dead thing between them. They
thought of nothing else, but they never spoke
of him ; and they had nothing else to speak of.
Therefore, th presence of that good, honest-hearted
if stupid-headed Pylades, which had
always brought with it the reflected lustre of
memory and association, became now as dark
as the rest ; and poor Stella had no more of that
moonlight-coloured happiness, which until now
it had been his appointed mission to bestow.

Also, without doubt, she had lost her old
place with her father  and Hortensia Lyon had
taken it ; and as yet she scarcely understood
the boundaries of her new sphere, or could say
when or where Hortensia had dispossessed her.
An odd kind of coolness had sprung up between
daughter and father, which both felt and which
neither would have confessed nor could perhaps
have assigned to its exact cause. Certainly,
she had broken down under the strain of her
close attendance on him after her mother's
death, so that he had been forced to have a
secretary to do the work for which, since nature

VOL. III. F

had so manifestly consecrated her, he thought
that love should have made her strong enough.
And she knew that he was disappointed and
annoyed with her because of her failure  a
failure which Hortensia always accentuated so
bitterly and against which she placed in contrast
herself and her devotion, as a shining
statue of silver against a dull background of
lead.

Yet Stella could not beg her father to let her
take np her dropped burden. She could not ! 
no, not even if that should include his renewed
approbation ! She felt that it was better for
both, and better even for her love for him, that
she knew little of, and was associated not at all
with, the life of that stifling studio. The work,
in the admiration of which she had been
brought up as in a fixed doctrine of righteousness,
had become quite another thing to her of
late from what it had been in the old days of
reverent worship, when her mother had impressed
on her, as the eleventh commandment,
the majesty of papa's genius, the gloriousness of
its results, and the indisputable right of the
domestic Apollo to her very life and her first cares.
Stella had not yet come to Mrs. Morshead's state
of mind when she could call it all " horrid stuff "
and " vile balderdash*' That would have been

a species of blasphemy still to her. But she was
in the state when the paternal poetry and music
were inexpressibly wearisome ; when she had
no kind of interest in the paternal pictures ; and
when the whole thing was to her dry husks and
lifeless chaff. It was all her own fault, that
she knew ; still, there it was, and she could not
conceal it from herself !

Beyond this unconfessed coolness because of
her intellectual defection from her duty stood
Hortensia, as even a graver cause for sorrow.
Creeping into Stella's rightful place in Mr.
Branscombe's heart, nearer and nearer as the
days went on, the little Puritan was indeed
taking that place which was the daughter's and
should have remained hers to the end. But how
to cut the ground from under those stealthy
crafty feet ? She, Stella, could not tell her father
that he was not to write odes 'and sonnets to
Hortensia Lyon, because she, his daughter, was
jealous and did not like it. Neither could she
tell Hortensia that she was not to be her father's
model, now as Una, now as Miranda, again as
Evangeline, and again as only herself idealized,
because she, her friend, was jealous of that too,
and did not like it. She had to bear it quietly,
whether she liked it or no ; and her feelings in
the matter made no part of the play.

Again, she knew that she was displeasing
this dear father of hers about Valentine Cowley.
He held to their frequent correspondence, and
she, knowing all that she did, shrank from it as
falsehood, treachery, desecration, and a dozen
other bad things, like so many snakes in a
basket. And Mr. Branscombe resented nothing
so much as disobedience to his will. But that
he should so hold to this correspondence was a
puzzle which Stella could not understand, look
at it how she would. He so careful, so delicate,
so fastidious as he was about the conduct of
women, to force her into this frequent interchange
of letters with a young man for whom
she had no special liking  to rebuke her as he
did if her answers were too short, too tardy, too
lifeless  and to praise the young fellow himself
at the expense of all other men, and especially
at the expense, by implication, of poor Cyril and
his friend Randolph Mackenzie ; what did it all
mean ? Over and over again that swift glance
of terror at the coming awakening, which
Sandro Kemp had once seen, translated itself
into a rapid thought of doubt and anguish.
No ; it could not be called a thought ; it had
not formulated itself so plainly as that. It was
only a vague sensation, a blinding flash of fear
lest some day she should see clearly to find her

father less than the godlike being she had been
taught to believe him  his genius a sham behind
which his vanity was the only living thing 
that vanity the real cause of her mother's death
and his dealing with herself eminently and
entirely cruel, selfish, unfair and fatherly.
She did not think all this in so many set terms :
she only dumbly feared and unconsciously foresaw.
But just as the lagging spring, though
slowly was surely awakening out of the sleep of
winter, so would that drowsy sentiment of hers
one day break into life and confession. And
then all dumb doubt and love-created denial
would be at an end.

Times were hard with poor Stella at this
moment. Beginning to unconsciously suspect
the flimsy pretentiousness of her beloved father
a certain estrangement setting in between
them  jealous of Hortensia, whose influence
somehow wrought against her, she scarcely knew
how  the girl was also unutterably distressed
by this correspondence with Valentine Cowley.
Forced on her by the one to whom she would
naturally have looked for protection against an
intimacy which she herself did not desire, what
could she do ? Every week Yal wrote to her
one or more long, long letters, to which she
sometimes said to her father, passionately, she

would not reply. For rare as passion used to
be with Stella in the days gone by, it was unhappily
by no means infrequent now ; and if
her father sometimes said he did not know his
child  his sweet and placid child  in the irritable
and nervous rebel whose will so often came
into collision with his own, Stella did not know
herself. She used to be dreadfully sorry and
ashamed of herself; she would resolve to be
more patient and self-restrained another time ;
not to let little things annoy her as they did ;
not to be so irritable with Hortensia ; not to be
so strange and sore with her father. Yet something
stronger than herself seemed to possess
her on the next occasion, and she stood before
the dark shadow of her new self terrified, repentant,
but somehow unable to do better.

If only she could cut short this correspondence
with Yalentine Cowley ! She thought
that everything would go so much more
smoothly if she were but fairly rid of this oppressive
incubus. How she hated those long-
letters of his, all about nothing, as they were,
yet always with a secret thread, a hidden core,
which she would not recognize and could not
deny ! This last, over the answer to which
she and her father had had something like a
quarrel, what nonsense it all was ! She cared

nothing for the '' Earthly Paradise," nor for the
Stones of Venice " ; the " Story of the Golden
Fleece," nor that of the " Apples of the Hesperides
" ; the description of the old church at
Torcello and the meaning of its architecture, nor
for the fine fancy which tossed up in solid foam
the cupolas of St. Mark, and that, as fine, which
chronicled the deed. All this was of course intellectually
true enough, she dared say, but she
really had no interest in it ; and still less in the
little undercurrent of personal application which
carried these surface-flowers of eloquence to
their destination. And when her father, to
whom she gave the letter unopened, launched
out in praise of its beauty of thought and
picturesqueness of expression, its tender tone of
poetry, its sweet religiousness of feeling, and
called on her to laud with him the writer of such
an admirable essay, she could not bring herself
to be his echo  she could not, and she would
not ! Nor would she answer this letter itself.
A few significant phrases embedded in the more
purely literary mass frightened and repelled her.
Yal once spoke of the future in connection with
her as a mysterious happiness lying in his way ;
and once he hinted at the time when he should
be able to direct her mind to his favourite subjects
more thoroughly than now, and to take joy

in her companionship on his special line of
thought. The words came in quite naturally
and as if born of the preceding phrases. All
the same they revolted Stella ; and she felt that
she must put a stop to this correspondence
before she had been further committed.

She was not a girl to think a man in love
with her because he liked her society. And
of herself she had not seen in Yal what the
outside world had detected clearly enough. But
she was by no means a fool, and had her possibilities
of enlightenment free of vanity, like
others. And she had been enlightened, as we
know. Wherefore it was that she suddenly
took her stand, and, in spite of her father's displeasure,
said with strange passion :

Papa ! I will not write any more to Mr.
Cowley. His letters do not interest me. I am
tired of them."

My will, my dear Stella, is that you do
write," her father answered with quiet firmness
and majestic decision.

You will not force me when it is so much
against my inclination ? " said Stella, turning to
him a white face and a pair of dark, wide-opened
eyes.

I would have your inclination run parallel
with my own," was his reply.

o

It cannot, papa. I hate these letters ! " said
Stella warmly. " Why should I write to a
young man like Mr. Cowley ? " she continued
indignantly. " He is the only man to whom I
do write  why should I to him ? I do not care
for him half as much as I care for James
Pennefather, or for even poor dear noisy Jack ;
and I do not write to them."

My dear, when you can compare a young
man of Mr. Valentine Cowley's superior acquirements
to two such earthworms, such mere
clods and beetles as the Pennefathers, it is time
to close the conversation. I shall have you next
bring on the field my groom or my gardener's
lad ;  you would not range on an appreciably
lower level if you did ! "

Papa ! " remonstrated Stella.

You and I, my dear Stella, do not agree in
our tastes, I am sorry to say," continued her
father loftily. " You prefer matter to mind in
all directions. Between your little friend Hortensia,
with her delicate organization and pearly
purity, and the coarse fibre of Mrs. Latrobe,
you choose the latter ; between this noble youth,
this Admirable Crichton, Mr. Yalentine Cowley,
and that clod-like Mr. Eandolph Mackenzie,
with his companion clods the Pennefathers, you
prefer these latter two. No ; undoubtedly we

do not agree, my dear Stella, in our estimate of
the best things in human nature ; and I am
sorry for it."

That has nothing to do with my writing to
Mr. Yalentine Cowley," said Stella ; " and,"
she added with strange rebelliousness ; " I do
not think I should be forced to do it when I da
not like it."

You are not forced ; you do it because I
wish it," said her father, suddenly setting his
sails to the old tack.

And you will not wish it if I so much dislike
it ? " said Stella, with as sudden a return to
her old coaxing and caressing manner.

For this once, oblige me," said her father,
smoothing the hair from her forehead and kissing
her gently  " for this once."

And poor Stella was conquered, as he knew
she would be.

Yalentine was by this time feverishly in love
with Cyril's former fiancee. He knew the
elementary rules about preparing the ground
and sowing the seed before you can expect to
garner; nevertheless, scientific knowledge did
not supply practical wisdom, and he wanted his'
harvest before the grain had had time to ripen.
Left to his own fancy, which was active, he
thought himself more and more in love than he

had been even when in the presence of his
Beautiful Lady, as he called her for his latest
designation  and he made up his own mind
without knowing whether Stella's would ever
be brought into harmony therewith. She was
his Supreme ; and he intended to marry her.
He felt sure of her father's consent ; so sure,
indeed, that had anything been able to throw
him off his intention, it would have been Mr.
Branscombe's too evident desire to call him son-in-law.
The consent of his own parents was
also a foregone conclusion ; for the Brans-comes
were their own social equals all round ;
Stella herself was unexceptionable ; and, what
was more to the purpose perhaps, in their
estimate of things, she would not come emptyhanded.
If he had chosen George Pennefather
he would not have been quite so sure of a home-welcome
to his bride. The Pennefathers were
also the Cowleyss' equals so far as birth and
social position went  but the girl herself! Mrs.
Cowley was fastidious about the girls of her
acquaintance, and the picture of a daughter-in-law
who laughed and talked slang and rollicked,
as George and her twin Dove and all belonging
to them laughed and talked and rollicked
generally, made Yalentine sometimes laugh and
sometimes feel a little qualm  which was a very
good substitute for remorse.

Meanwhile he was passionately and honourably
in love with his equal in all things  his
equal whom he intended to marry  his present
ideal and Cyril Ponsonby's former lover  Stella
Branscombe.

Stella was not actively ill, but she was on the
verge of that state called generically " breaking
down " ; and Dr. Quigley made it his business
to go as often to Eose Hill as he could find any
excuse for a visit. He had of late found an
excellent one, having dug out of the mining
population a young fellow who had a talent for
painting and whose sketches he brought to Mr.
Branscombe, ostensibly for that gentleman's
valuable criticism. In reality it was to be able
to ask Stella this question about herself and to
make that inquiry of Jane Durnsford ; to be
able to give those sharp prominent collations
of hers a few ringing taps beneath his long
lean fingers ; every now and then to listen to
her heart and lungs with the stethoscope to his
large flat ear ; to make sure that no vital
mischief had as yet set in, and to make also
sure that she was taking his medicine regularly,
and, if not gaining good, yet staving off evil.
He was pulling Augusta's child through withall
his known skill and care, and he intended,
when the little fellow should be well enough,

to send hin. and his mother to the seaside ; and
Stella should go with them. This was his design
for the immediate future. Meanwhile and for
the present he, like all the rest, held his breath.

Colonel Moneypenny was perplexed. He
could not tell what was false and what was true
in that fair widow's conduct. It was odd if she
had not seen that notice which his jealous eye
devoured so greedily immediately after she had
left. Yet would she have perpetrated such an
unblushing falsehood as was this denial of hers,
at least by implication if not by direct assertion ?
Yet again, if she had not seen it, what had
changed her manner with such strange suddenness
between his leaving the room and returning
after so short an interval ? It was an odd
little thornbush, looked at all round. He could
not see his way through it ; and, as a gentleman,
he was bound to accept her word that
there was nothing to see. He intended to try
his fate definitely when the boy was better.
Until then he must wait, ponder, hope  was
it hope ?  and fight with his wild beast of
jealousy, doubt and wounded pride, as well ashe
knew how.

On her side Mrs. Morshead was softened by
this illness of the child to a degree that took
her household by surprise. And she was out

of sorts herself. So far she admitted, but no
more. She had a mysterious something amiss
with her of which she never made confession.
She rejected with scorn the proposition to
"" speak to Dr. Quigley," when she looked so ill
and walked so feebly, and was evidently in so
much suffering that both her daughter and her
maid saw for themselves what she hid with so
much care from all the world. She believed in
him for that " poor fellow," her grandson, but
for herself she despised him as she would
despise any other quack or humbug. So
Augusta need not give herself the trouble to
ask her. She knew what she was about, and
the least said the soonest mended, at all times.

She said this sharply enough ; still, with less
than her usual acrimony ; for since the boy's
illness she had been almost humane to her
daughter  certainly, if not positively loving, yet
negatively inoffensive, and even taking a little
care not to add her usual tale of thongs and
whips to the poor young widow's scorpions of
anxiety.

The neighbourhood too, interested in the boy,
came often to The Laurels ; and this frequent
influx of visitors a little diverted the lonely old
woman. Colonel Money penny came perhaps
the most frequently. He never saw Augusta ;

never once ; but that perennial Hope of man
kept np a steady flame of expectation on every
occasion, and the terrible old woman had the
good of the light.

In this universal attention paid to her for
the sake of her daughter, the acrid humour of
the mistress of The Laurels was somewhat
sweetened and her bitter tongue had a certain
respite. Even the Pennefathers got off with
fewer rebukes than usual, and she scoffed with
less malignant verve at Finery Fred and all his
affectation. To Stella she was almost maternal
and very nearly affectionate ; and, now that no
one said so and she was not bound by the law
of her being to deny and contradict, she saw for
herself how close the girl was to. that one step
which goes over the border of Time into the
abyss of Eternity. She told Mr. Branscombe to
his face, sharply and curtly as her manner was,
that he was not fit to have the care of a nice
girl like that. Any one with only half an eye,
she said, not to speak of four  looking contemptuously
at the pince-nez on that long,
straight handsome nose  could see that poor
dear Stella was next thing to gone ; and it was
a shame and a sin not to look after her better !
What would her dear mother have said to see
her neglected Hke this ? Never a woman to

make sure that she was taken care of, to boil
her up a comfortable posset at nights, or to see
that she wore flannels next her skin and put
her feet into hot water  it was a sin and a
shame ; and so she told him ; and some of these
fine days he would be sorry for it and wish
that he had taken friendly advice when it was
offered. But men were a poor lot, take them
all round ; and for her part she did not see
what good they were in the world at all ! They
only rampaged about and put all things into
confusion ; and women had nothing else to do
but attend to their humours, and see that they
had their buttons sewn on and their shirt-fronts
starched and ironed like so much glazed
card-board  give them good dinners, and treat
them like a parcel of overgrown school-boys,
as they were. But not while she had a
tongue in her head would she refrain from
telling the truth  no, not if she had to die for
it ! And the truth was that Stella was looking:
downright dreadful, and in a very little while
she would lose all her beauty if she went on
like this ; and then where would she be ?

Where she is now, my dear madame
answered Mr. Branscombe grandly ; "in her
father's home and heart."

Her father's fiddlestick," snapped the

vulgar old creature crossly. " Better have
given her to that young man when you were
about it ! She was fond of him ; as she ought
to have been, seeing that she was engaged to
him and made fuss enough over him. A father s
home and heart are not as good as a husband's
to a nice girl like that ; and it was downright
cruelty to keep her back as you did, Mr. Branscombe
! She has never been the same creature
since. And any one but yourself could see that
she is breaking her heart now !  any one. Ah,
it takes a mother to learn these things ! " she
added, with unconscious contradiction, wishing
to punish her adversary by this allusion to his
good Matilda.

Providence has denied her the continuance
of the one parent, but I think I have somewhat
successfully supplied the hiatus," said Mr. Branscombe
with rigid stateliness.

And I don't," said Mrs. Morshead snappishly.

There, my dear madam, we must agree to
differ," answered Stella's father with a superior
smile. " You, on your part, doubtless think
that you have successfully supplied the place of
father to your daughter and to your little
grandson. In like manner, I claim credence
for the faithful and fit performance of my
delegated duties. If we fail, you and I, we fail

VOL. III. G

in concert ; and neither can say ' le peclie demon
voisin.' "

God bless my heart and soul ! " said Mrs.
Morshead with satirical disdain. " Your language
is beyond me," she added. " I am only
a plain, rough, everyday body and you are
superfine and gilt-edged all over. You always
make me think of musk and white-kid gloves ;
and I am sure you must live chiefly on butter
and honey, you are so soft and silky."

I thank you for the compliment, Mrs. Mors-head,"
said Finery Fred smiling sweetly. " You
have expressed to the letter the character I
wish to have and the impression I hope and
endeavour to make. Refinement and softness 
what a flatterer, my dear madam, you are !
Ah ! who could ever call Mrs. Morshead rough ?
not I for one ! "

Then I am sorry, Mr. Branscombe," said
Mrs. Morshead grimly. '' I am proud of being-called
rough, for that means true ; and if you
call me soft I know that I have done and said
something that I should not."

Ah, you are a wag, my dear madam, a
wag ! " said Mr. Branscombe airily. " You
really are supreme good company ! But I must
tear myself away, else I should like to enjoy
your pleasant society for hours longer. Au

revoir, chere madame ; a benton," he said,
knowing that Mrs. Morshead hated French
phrases as much as she hated flattery. And
with this he bunched up his long white fingers
into a knot and blew the old woman a gallant
kiss, leaving her speechless with disgust and
vexation.

CHAPTER V.

BY THE SEASIDE.

Really his daughter's health was getting to be
almost as great a nuisance to Mr. Branscombe
as her love-affair with Cyril Ponsonbj ! It
broke in on the rhythm of his thoughts, interfered
with his habits, disturbed his reflections
and annoyed him all through. So that when
Dr. Quigley told him, brusquely enough, to pack
off his girl to the seaside with Mrs. Latrobe and
her little boy, albeit Augusta's companionship
was theoretically against his idea of fitness, he
assented to the proposal, not only without
demurrer but with a decided feeling of relief
from a very real and pressing personal annoyance.


At one time it would have seemed impossible
that Stella's father should have become thus
painfully estranged from the Star of his House

the smiling, dimpled object of his graceful
paternal love  the sweet inspiration of his
domestic muse. And at one time Stella would
have thought it impossible that she should have
left that dear papa and Rose Hill with a sense
of escape from duress into freedom, from sickliness
into health, from falsehood and make-believe
into reality and truth. But times had
changed with both ; and each knew the fact, if
Stella had not enough moral hardihood to acknowledge
all her share. Indeed, had she
understood herself and read her father, she
would have held her life to have come to an
end for all its happiness and all its worth.

On his side however. Finery Fred had never
lacked the courage which acknowledges things
as they arc and confesses when the loving have
ceased to please and the beloved to be of value.
There was no weak allowance with him of this
fault or that folly, accepted with the rest, quand
meme. If his dearest failed, they failed ; and
if they were in his way they were, and must be
removed. He believed in the value of mental
repose for the artistic nature, and held that the
poet's soul should never be vexed whatever
happened. And as his work in life was the
creation of beauty, so he said, all which told
against that work must be eliminated from his

path, as you would remove logs and orange-peel
from the track of a runner. And as Stella had,
unfortunately for herself, proved of late an
obstruction and a cause of vexation to his soul
he had the courage to say so when he took
private counsel with himself and balanced incompleteness
here with fulfilment there.

She annoys me," he said, as he sat, pen in
hand, unable to write the " Song to the Sweet
South Wind " (Hortensia) which had presented
itself to him in the watches of the night 
unable to " sing," as he called it, because so full
of his daughter's ill-health, changed temper,
want of proper affection for her incomparable
little friend, evident fretting after that young
clown pig-sticking out there in India, and felt
if not expressed indifference to his own work.
She annoys me ; and I should do better without
her. She has changed since the rupture
of her foolish engagement and has become
morose and disagreeable. She does not respect
my genius as she ought and at one time did ;
from a help she has become a hindrance. It
is well that she leaves me for a while. The
wheels will run more smoothly without her;
and, if I can, I will remove her altogether ! "

Pondering over chances and probabilities,
and dreadfully out of humour with that once

radiant and now undeniably dingy Star, Mr.
Branscombe sat down and composed one of his
most elegant epistles for the benefit of Mr.
Valentine Cowley. He began by telling his dear
young friend, his Admirable Crichton, Himself
Redivivus, that he was despoiling himself of his
sweet child's invaluable companionship, and
sending her to St. Ann's under the care of Mrs.
Latrobe, who had obligingly offered to be her
chaperon and caretaker. He hoped his dear
love would not be dull. He himself would goto
see her soon after her installation ; and perhaps,
he added significantly, other friends more
suitable to her age than even a fond father
would find themselves in her neighbourhood
before long. It would be a favourable moment
for reflection and deep-seated impression ; and
he trusted that his dear young friend would do
what he could for his sweet child's solace and
amusement while by the solemn shores of the
sounding sea. He looked on them as brother
and sister, he said, and only wished that heaven
had sent him such a son for himself  such a
brother for his daughter.

He made the letter specially long and friendly ;
for, in spite of her natural loyalty, Stella had
kept her promise of reply to Valentine's last
effusion only to the ear and in no wise to the

hope, and lead written so curtly that in effect
she need not have written at all. Wherefore
Mr. Branscomhe, irate on this point also against
his Star, took the thing into his own hands,
hoping that the warm light of a father's friendship
might shed a ruddy glow over a daughter's
frozen indifference. It was his design to keep
Mr. Yalentine Cowley on the stocks so long as
was possible, and not to let him slip off into
deep water if to he held by any chain or cable
known to man. He wanted Stella to marry,
and he intended that she should marry the heir
of G-reyhurst Manor. If there was power left
in a father's will she should be the young man's
wife before the year was out ; and then he himself
 Handsome Fred Branscombe  well ; what
of himself? Who knows what passed through
his mind as he looked at his face in the glass,
scanning every square inch of his skin with
microscopic minuteness of observation, then
drawing himself up smiling and saying half
aloud : '' Handsome Fred Branscombe still ! "

Wherefore he wrote Mr. Yalentine Cowley a
letter, which was substantially an offer of Stella's
hand and an assurance that his own would be
accepted, and which held behind those more
evident lines the filmy network of an undeclared
resolve  cost what it might, a resolve that
should find issue in fact.

How delightful it was at the seaside ! St.
Ann's, one of the loveliest places on the whole
north-coast of England, never looked so lovely
as now in the bright months of early spring,
when the clouds were so tender and the clear
vault of heaven against which they rested was
as blue as the sky of Italy and as clear as that
vvhich flashes down on the glaciers of the
Engadine  when the sweet wild-flowers dyed
the cliffs and meadows golden and pink and
silver by turns, and scented the green lanes
with perfume that was as subtle as a spirit and
as full of fragrant harmonies as a song  when
the resinous larches of the inland woods caught
the sunlight in their rose-red tassels to give
back in odour what they received in colour 
when the sea seemed younger and fresher, more
vigorous and more vitalized than usual, answering
to the renewed freshness and vitality of the
earth.

It was like another and better state of existence
to Stella to sit here amongst the rocks,
either alone or with Augusta and her boy.
Sheltered from the wind and turned full to the
light of the beautiful sea, she dreamed herself
in Italy ; and was sure that not even the cliffs
of Sorrento nor the sheltered bays of Capri
could give more exquisite delight in mere

existence than that which she felt now on this
North of England coast. The sense of peace
which came upon her was as infinite as that
of healing ; and she felt as if part of the heavy
burden of her sorrow were slipping from her
as she forgot herself in the love of that Great
Mother who holds all the gifts of peace and
health in her benign hand. And what a
charming companion Augusta was ! The more
she was known the nicer she proved herself tone.
Friends the two had ever been, so far asa
young girl and a married woman ten years
her senior can be friends. But they grew
nearer and nearer together in the sweet solitude,
the near intimacy, of their present life ; and it
seemed to Stella as if the checked and troubled
current of her affections had once more a dear
and pleasant outflill, and that Augusta brought
back to her something of the beloved mother
whom she had lost and of the young lover
whom she had renounced.

On the brink of becoming morbid as she was,
Stella could not have found a more wholesome-companion
than Augusta Latrobe. Sympathetic
nature and soft in speech, the widow was
essentially cheerful, strong, and above all things
unromantic. She was the essence of commonsense
wisdom warmed by kindness and spiced

with a genuine love of fun and pleasure. She
was undoubtedly what people would call
worldly ; but she was not selfish nor inhuman.
She thought that life held more than the simple
affections  especially that affection between
man and woman which goes by the name par
excellence of love. It held for her ease of circumstance
and solidity of social position, ]peace
at home, and above all, duty such as she owed
to her boy ; and nothing seemed to her so
foolish as useless regrets and meaningless sentimentality.
Her favourite two axioms were :
Break or bear " for the first part, and " Life
lies before and not behind us " for the second.
When things had perforce to be borne, it was
essential, she said, that they should be borne
with the dignity of cheerfulness. And when a
loss is eternal and irreparable, we must bury
our sorrow deep in the shadow of the grave
which lies behind us, and press forward with
hope and courage to the future before us.

She had lived in the practice of these principles
for herself, and she applied them now to
Stella. Cyril Ponsonby was done with. That
act of the girls life drama was ended to all
appearances for ever ; the page was turned
down ; and Augusta Latrobe allowed no weak
peering through the closed leaves, no vain

attempt to reconstruct the stage. The seal of
fate was set ; and of what use tears and sighs ?
What was done, was done. Now to the future,
and what had to come ; and the widow, like
Mr. Branscombe, would, if she could, turn that
future to the benefit of Mr. Yalentine Cowley
as the best portion that Stella could ' expect for
her share.

It was at the breakfast-table one morning
when the first loophole was opened, where the
reasonable, calm-judging friend could lay her
guns and vvhence she could take her aim. The
letters were brought in ; three  all in masculine
handwriting  were for Stella. One was from
her father, one from Randolph Mackenzie, the
third was from Yalentine Cowley. To Augusta
came none at alL

Upon my word, young lady," laughed the
widow pleasantly ; " you are, what those vulgar
little Pennefather girls would call * going the
pace.' Three letters, all from gentlemen !
Come, confess  from whom ? "

Papa," said Stella, taking up one and kissing
the envelope. " Dear papa ! This is from
that good Randolph Mackenzie. I know his
handwriting, but this is the first time he has
written to me  I wonder about what "  a little
anxiously, one might almost say with embarrassment.

" And this," she said, tossing down
the third with what was saved from being indifference
only by displeasure ; ' this is from
Yalentine Cowley. How tiresome he is ! "

"And why tiresome, ma belle? And why,
if tiresome, do you write to him at all or allow
hirqi to write to you?  more especially after
what I told you the other day, and what not
only I but every one else can see ? Why,
Stella ! where is your logic and reasonableness
in all this, my dear ? "

It is not my fault," said Stella hastily. " I
do not wish either to write to or hear, from him.
If I had my own way I would never see nor
hear from him again. He worries me to death,
Augusta ; and I am not to blame."

So ? then by whose will is it ? Mr. Cowley's
or your father's, or both ? "

Papa's," answered Stella in a low voice.

She had to tell the truth if she said anything
at all ; and though she did not like making
what seemed to her such a damaging statement
against her father, still she was bound to do
so ; and it was a relief to explain the whole
position to her friend.

He makes you correspond with Mr. Cowley
against your will ? " asked Augusta.

'' Yes," said Stella.

And Mr. Cowley knows that it is against
your will ? "

I try to make him feel it," she answered
with a little flash.

But he perseveres ? "

Yes."

He writes often ? "

Yes ; once a week always, and sometimes
twice. I hate his letters ! I cannot tell you
how much I hate them ! " said Stella with a
petulant gesture, throwing half-across the table
that which had just come in and which she had
not opened.

Has he made you an offer yet ? " asked the
widow in her matter-of-fact way, probing with
that firm, direct, assured touch of surgeons who
put you to torture and pretend that you scarcely
feel.

No ! " said Stella with indignant energy.

But he makes love in his letters ? He does
not write, I suppose, only about the colour of
the clouds or the last new poem ? "

He makes a great many silly speeches,"
answered Stella, with a curious mixture of
annoyance and reluctance.

And you could not possibly like him ? You
could not make up your mind to marry him ? "
-asked Augusta, still serenely unconscious of

giving pain while she turned the knife with a
steady hand and pushed the probe still deeper
into the wound.

Augusta ! never ! never ! Marry Yalentine
Cowley.? I would rather die first ! " said
Stella, with as much passion of denial as if she
had been asked : Could she commit murder or
plan a forgery ?

You might do worse. He is a nice young
fellow. You might indeed do worse, my dear,"
said Augusta.

I am much obliged to you for your estimate,
but I do not think I could do much worse ! "
said Stella, holding her head high and speaking
in an offended tone.

Decidedly that dear girl's temper had not
improved of late ! There was no danger now
of her sweetness wearying by its uniformity 
of the smooth and limpid serenity of the waters
fatiguing the onlooker for want of the pleasant
change of ripple and ruffle ! She had developed
of late quite a refreshing amount of irritability,
in which her nature clothed itself as in a new
dress with fresh appointments. And as it was
that kind of irritability which is without bitterness
and without personal application  which is
due only to an uncomfortable state of the nerves
and to a " run-down " condition of the health

in general  it did not seriously affront those to
whom it was shown. She was distinctly cross
at times ; but it was crossness which exhausted
itself in a breath ; crossness which was born
and then died in a moment and which did no
one any real harm while it lasted.

Augusta smiled to herself at the girl's little
spurt." It did not affect her the least in the
world. What she had to say should be said,
whether it made her companion cross or not.
She had to have the thing out and do what she
could to make oil and vinegar mix.

Then, Stella, dear girl, if you feel all this,
and are so set and determined, you should not
write to him nor let him write to you," said the
widow, very quietly but very firmly. "It is
scarcely fair to him and certainly not right to
yourself."

But what can I do ?  papa makes me," said
the girl, her irritability gone and self-reproach
remaining. Her doctrine of filial obedience had
not been lessened because her belief in paternal
perfection was somewhat diminished. Her
father's will still represented to her the most
righteous obligation of her life ; and though
she could not obey cheerfully in this matter of
Yalentine Cowley, nevertheless she did not
disobey. Perhaps things would have been

better if she had been less conscientious and
more self-willed.

Your father evidently wishes yon to marry
Mr. Cowley," then said Augusta, summing up
the whole question. " And he does what he
can to encourage the young man's hopes. If
you really do not intend to marry him, you
would do better to disobey your father now
than to disappoint him afterwards. You will
do less harm ; for, as things are, you are giving
poor Valentine false hopes which weill make
your future refusal only the more severe. Take
my advice, Stella  either break off this correspondence
which is doing harm all round, or
make up your mind to marry the young fellow
when you are asked."

Do not say that, Augusta," said Stella with
a solemn kind of earnestness, a tone almost of
menace in her voice.

I tell you again that you might do worse,"
repeated the widow dryly. " He is a nice
young fellow on the whole ; and G-reyhurst
Manor would be a most charming home for
you."

Do not talk like that, Augusta ! You are
so sweet and good when you are your best self!
I cannot bear to hear you so worldly ! Do not
be vexed with me. What would Greyhurst

VOL. III. H

Manor be to me if I did not love the man ? 
and how could I ever love Mr. Cowley ? "

And why not ? "

' Augusta ! " said Stella revolted.

'* Grey hurst Manor would be a lovely home
whatever the man," continued Augusta, not
noticing that interjection and pursuing her
theme with her most provoking air of genial
good sense, of heartless reasonableness. " And
if you did not begin with all that tremendous
amount of nonsense which some girls think
necessary, you would end in the placid contentment
which comes from habit, ease of position
and mutual respect. And I assure you, Stella
child, habit and respect and enough money for
all your wants and a good social position and
a nice house, and all that kind of thing, go
farther to make a happy marriage than the
romantic enthusiasm and blind adoration of the
phantom which goes by the name of love. If
you could bring yourself to marry Yalentine
Cowley you would be much happier than you
are now, or perhaps ever will be. But if you
cannot," she went on to say, stopping Stella as
she was about to speak ; ' at least do not let
him believe that you will. Father or not, do
not be induced to play with him now only to
disappoint him in the end."

How impossible it is to do right ! " said
Stella with a quick sigh of impatience. " "Weare
taught from our childhood to obey our
parents as the first duty in life, for in obeying
them we are obeying God  and when we are
older, if we do as they tell us, we do wrong."

Because we always do wrong when we
make a fetish for ourselves, which we worship
beyond reason ; " said Augusta. " The only
safe guide in life is common sense ; and that
is the rarest of all. Not the finest virtue in the
world  not the most necessary  can stand the
strain of excess ; and even obedience to parents
can be carried to excess  as in this matter of
yours with Valentine Cowley. So now, after
this lecture let us go out. It is a sin to waste
the sunshine."

CHAPTER YI.

THE lover's leap.

At every seaside place, Vv4iere there are cliffs
and rocks worthy of the name, are sure to be
found a Smuggler's Leap and a Smuggler's
Cave, round which are gathered fierce traditions
having still the power to stir the blood and
rouse the imagination. Sometimes there is a
Lover's Leap instead of the Smuggler's, where
tragedy takes the place of romantic crime and
the sympathy is all on the side of the sufferer.
At St. Ann's there was of course the due
amount of local interest and tradition ; for the
coast was wild and rock-bound ; and in the old
days of high duties and strict Protection it
had been famous for the boldness of its law-breakers
and the success with which their
daring ventures had been made. Shreds and
ends of fine Flanders lace were still among the

cottage heirlooms of the fisher folk ; here a louis
door and there a Spanish doubloon was hung
against the walls or laid in the bowl of the
quaint Venetian vise with the twisted threads
of white run through the stem ; and the odour
of cognac and schiedam seemed to linger yet
in the air. But all these stirring times were
past now  put to death by the prosaic facts
of free-trade and the coastguard ; and only
memories and traditions remained of this bold
Will Watch, or that more terrible Paul Jones 
only here and there a blood-stained grave
marked the last resting-place and crystallized
the history of some wild desperado whom nature
had designed for a hero and of whom fate had
made a ruffian and fortune an outlaw. Still,
all these memories and old-world stories give
a kind of historical point and meaning to places,
which surrounded them with human interest
and lifted them into the regions of poetry and
romance.

The most beautiful of all these places at St.
Ann's was the Lover's Leap ; and the story
was as pathetic as the place was picturesque.
It was the old, old story of loving not wisely
but too well ; of parental cold-blooded denial
hind youthful hot-headed passion ; of love strong
as death and greater than fear ; of the youth

who jumped into the sea from this pursuers and
was saved; of the maid who flmig herself in
after him in despair, and was lost. And party
because she was love-lorn in her own life, and
naturally therefore given to sentimental sympathies
and partly because the spot was so
beautiful, Stella's favourite resting-place was
on the rocks just below that fatal cliff whence
the man had struck out to safety and the girl
had sunk down to death.

How true to life ! " she thought sadly, as
she sat there in front of the placid sea and
under the shadow of the overhanging rocks.
How true to her own history ! Cyril had struck
out into the smooth waters of indifference,
where another love would save him ; she had
gone down like a stone under the black waves
of despair whence she should never be rescued
by living hand ! How true to the difference
between man and woman ! she thought again,
woman-like, heaping on the collective man all
that bitterness of blame which is only the other
side of individual love. Yes, the strong man
struck out and was saved, and the weak woman
who loved him, went down and was lost.

So she sat, mournfully dreaming  her eyes
shut as though she Avere sleeping ; while
Augusta and her bov, out there in the bright,

wholesome sunlight, slipped about among the
seaweed and the rocks, looking for sea-anemones,
catching the little baby crabs running
distractedly through the tiny shallows left
by the receded tide, and picking up the tropical
shells which had been brought from the far-off
regions of the sun by the strong north current
to the shores of bonny Cumberland.

The child's happy voice and Augusta's cheerful
tones came upon the girl's ear like echoes
from another life as she la' there dreaming,
with those melancholy visions of loneliness and
despair, those sad thoughts of ruin and disappointment,
grouped round her like shadowy
spectres. But they roused her and made her
ashamed of this slothful indulgence of unavailing
sorrow. Selfish, silly, weak, contemptible
she called herself all sorts of hard names as
she resolutely cleared her brain of these misleading
filtering spectres. She sat up with
a strong stiff back, as a reasonable woman
should  no longer lounging against the rocks
sunk in that slothful reverie of speechless sadness.
She took off her hat and let the wind
raise and ruffle her pretty hair ; passed her
hands over her eyes as if clearing them from
the lingering heaviness of sleep ; opened the
book in her hand and glanced at the page where

she had left off; looked out on the sea and
watched Augusta and her boy  their figures
dark against the shining waves and glittering-sand
; and again she felt the glad glow of
young blood in her veins, the glory of life, and
that all was not lost to her even though Cyril
Ponsonby were parted from her for ever.
There was love still left in the world ; there
was beauty ; and there was always duty with
work. iso ; all was not lost, though she should
never be any man's wife, and never love again.
Still, the present was good, and the future was
not the hopeless wreck which but a few
moments ago it had seemed to her to be. So,
full of renewed courage and cheerfulness, she
began again on her book, which was Julian
Surges's delightful story of " An Accomplished
Gentleman." *

What a charming story it was 1 she thought ;
how easy in its style, how graceful and playful !
how it touched the surfaces of things with such
a light and pleasant hand, and yet was not

Just at this part of my story I read for the first time
Mr. Surges's pleasant novel. I was painfully struck
with a certain coincidence of character and idea in his
Hugo Deane and my own Fred Branscombe ; and I make
this explanation here to save myself from the charge of
plagiarism and to express my keen appreciation of the
elder work.

itiliallow ! Still, something in the story pained
her. Something in the circumstances, not in
the character  no, certainly not in the character
of Hugo Deane reminded her so horribly of
her own dear father ! It was like a bad caricature,
where the resemblance is undeniable but
where the likeness is detestable. She hated
herself that such a thing should come to her ;
but she could not chase it entirely away, though
she banished it to the background of a mere
uneasy consciousness. Her dear papa like
Hugo Deane ? Certainly not ! The one was
true, the other false  the one a genius and the
other only a sham ; and it was sacrilege to connect
the two together. So, resolutely refusing
to acknowledge the likeness which her consciousness
could not deny, she went on readings
if her whole life's interest were concentrated
in the tale.

Suddenly a man's hasty step on the shingle
made her look up, when, to her infinite dismay,
she saw the tall, handsome figure of Valentine
Cowley striding over the loose stones and rubble
towards her. A letter, still unopened, fiYjni
him this morning, and now he himself at noon!
What did it mean ? and why had he come ?

He came up to her and held out his hand, as
with the other he took off his hat and stood

bareheaded in the sun. What a happy smile on
his fine face matched the King light of that
lustrous sun ! Eeally it was a fine face, if nota
beloved one. Even Stella, though she did not
love it, was forced to confess its beauty. Hi
lithe young figure looked instinct with life and
strength, with the daring of his youth, the confident
satisfaction of his present place and future
certainties. He was of the kind to whom life
and the land belong by nature and inheritance ;
of the kind consecrated by fate to take boldly
what he meant to hold firmly.

As her hand lay in his he drew a breath that
was like a joyous interjection.

I thought I should find you down here ! ""
he said, laughing with simple happiness. This
sudden straight discovery was like a good omen.
Had I not a fine instinct ? " he asked. " They
told me that you had gone down to the seashore,
and I came here straight as a bird flies 
made a bee-line and fell upon you as if I had
known already."

Stella's face stiffened, paled, grew as prim asia
she were Hortensia in spirit and herself only
in form.

How do you do, Mr. Cowley ? '' she said:
coldly, pulling away her hand from his and
neither expressing surprise nor offering well
come.

Did you not expect me ? " he asked, his
spirits dropping to zero.

No," she answered with the finest Httle
accent of disdain, as if the question were in
itself an impertinence. Why should she have
expected him ? Why thought of him at all ?

Did you not receive my letter ? " he asked
again. " I told you that I was coming to-day.
Have you not had a letter from me this
morning ? You ought. It was posted in right
time."

Stella looked a little confused.

Yes, there was a letter from you," she said.

But I told you that I was coming ! " persisted
Yal.

I have not read it yet," said Stella in a tone
of studied indifference.

Yalentine's fair fiice flushed with sudden
anger. The slight implied in her words and
emphasized by her manner, hit him hard ; and
even a man in love is susceptible to what he
must call an impertinence, though it comes from
the beloved. The difference between this and a
like offence from another lies in the ease with
which he forgives, and the odd transformation
of anger into humility and offended dignity into
abject entreaty.

I am sorry you find my letters of so little

interest that yon do not care even to read them,"
lie said.

' I do not think I ever gave you reason to
believe that they did interest me so very much!"
said Stella in her most unpleasant voice and
manner.

Pray give me back my morning's unfortunate
epistle  the letter that you have not cared
even to open  and let me destroy it," said Yal,
the flush still on his face and his voice studiously
cold and haughty.

I have not got it with me," said Stella, cold
and haughty without study. ' I left it on the
breakfast table ; but you are welcome to destroy
it when we go back to the house."

Stella ! " cried Yal impulsively.

' Mr. Cowley ! " returned Stella, indignant at
the familiarity of the address.

I expected a different reception from this I
must confess," said Yal, his mood melting and
his anger changing, as it was certain to do,
from wrath to sorrow. "" I did not think you
would receive me so coldly, so cruelly. I expected
some kind of welcome from you."

"Why should you?" answered Stella quickly.
I never let you suppose that I would welcome
you if you came here, Mr. Cowley ;  quite the
contrary."

Your father told me he would be glad if I
came, and that you would be glad too," said
Yalentine.

You are papa's friend and he likes you"'
answered Stella stiffly. " Papa spoke as he felt
for himself; but even he has no right to speak
for me."

This was a tremendous bit of self-assertion on
the part of the girl who had been born and bredin
the faith of filial submission ; but the exigencies
of the moment were strong, and she
must assert herself if she would not be swamped
in the heavy wash where she found herself.

Then I am not your friend ? " said Yal
sorely.

You are an acquaintance," said Stella, a little-less
coldly than before. She hated to give pain
even when it was as necessary as now. " I have
no young men friends  except Randolph Mac-kenzie,"
she added. " I am not the kind of girl
to have them."

But girls do not keep up a correspondence
with acquaintances  only acquaintances," said
Yal with an imprudent accent of reproach in his
voice to match the reproach in his heart.

Stella's eyes, usually so mild and of late so
mournful, flashed at this with a sudden blaze of
indignation.

I was forced to write to you," she said
proudly. " Papa wished it. I do not know
why, but he did; and I wrote to please him,
because he made me, and not of my own freewill."


'' I am sorry that you have been forced into
anything so unpleasant against your will," said
Yalentine Cowley, the touchwood of his pride
again taking fire. But the fire was not long-lived,
and when he turned away his head something
moved over his eyes that felt like tears.

The girl's soft heart smote her. She did not
like to see this tall, fine, strong fellow so
suddenly humiliated, so strangely cast down
and softened. She felt that he had, or thought
he had, the right to reproach her as he liked.
Had not Augusta said so ? It was no business
of his that her father had forced her to write
against her will. He had only to do with the
fact that she had written, not once, but often.
And though her letters were purposely made
the deadest, the most soulless, the coldest, the
most uninteresting things in the world ; still
they were letters ; and he was a young man
while she was a girl.

I said just now that I was not the kind of
girl to have young men friends ; and I am
still less the kind to keep up a correspondence

with one of my own accord," said Stella, a little
less icily than before.

He recognized the partial thaw in her voice.

' But you made an exception in my favour ;
and weill again ? " he asked eagerly.

She looked up into his face then down on to
the sand.

No," she said ; '' I told papa before I left
home that I would not write to you any more."

I will trv to change that negative into an
affirmative. Some day it will come ! " said
Valentine confidently, hoping all things and
believing as much as he hoped because her
voice was softer and her eyes looked down in
pity, not up in defiance. All the hopes of love
are built out of these small splinters. Xot the
finest Roman mosaic is composed of such minute
pieces ; not the ultimate atom itself is more
microscopic, more intangible, than the shadowy
nothings which go to create that gigantic and
omnipotent Love who rules the world and
makes of man the equal of the gods or the sport
of the demons !

No, do not try, you cannot change it," said

Stella, just as Augusta and her boy came to

them, laden with slimy treasures and strong

smelling " finds " of all sorts and descriptions.

When did you come ? " cried the widow

in her genial way, glancing with a half-amused
half-anxious air to Stella as if to see how she
lore herself and what effect the sudden advent
of her father's Admirable Crichton had had on
her.

Just now," said Valentine.

It is quite a surprise," said Augusta. " Why
did you not give us notice ? "

I did," returned Valentine, heroically conquering
his pride and swallowing his mortification.
" If Miss Branscomhe had done me the
honour of reading my letter she would have
found that I intended to he here by the ten-forty
train this morning ! "

Oh, that naughty, lazy girl ! " cried Augusta
pleasantly. " People should always read
their letters as soon as they arrive. I believe
it was Lord Palmers ton who said all letters
answered themselves if left long enough ; but
that is not my way."

I wish you would make your way your
friend's," said Valentine, with a rueful look to
where Stella was strolling away among the
rocks with the boy.

The little fellow could never have enough of
anemones and long green slimy ribbons, and
thought the dirt and drip of the seaside the
most enjoyable part of the business.

And I wish," added Yal significantly,
that you would stand my friend, Mrs. Latrobe."


I do ; I am your friend," answered Augusta
also significantly. " I want to see Stella well
married. She would be so much happier and
better in every way than she is now, with
only that dreadful father of hers to be her
companion ! But, frankly, for all her soft
manners and sweet-tempered acquiescence in
little things, she is exceedingly difficult to
influence in graver matters."

Time works wonders ; and constant dropping
wears away even granite. And she is
not granite ! " laughed Valentine, with a sudden
flush of confidence.

"But sometimes time only confirms," said
the widow, in her character of Justice, holding
the balance even, and weighing chances as well
as merits.

The tide had turned and was now coming
in. Stella and the boy had gone far away to
the very border of the waves. It was such
fun to run forward a few steps, as if to defy
that incoming crest, and then to scamper back
as fast as those small feet could run to prevent
being overtaken by the water ! And as Stella
was essentially good-natured and easy to live

VOL. III. I

with, she let the child enjoy himself in his own
way, glad for her own part to be rid of poor
Yalentine Cowley and his less than welcome
attentions.

As they were standing on the firm yellow
sand, playing with the incoming tide, they
were being surrounded in that strange insidious
way which characterizes certain sea-coasts.
Silently and rapidly they were being cut off
from the mainland, and soon were standing on
a little island which every moment became
smaller, while every moment the barrier of
intervening waters became wider and deeper.
There was as yet no kind of danger to life. It
was just anunpleasant little adventure which
carried with it wet feet and a pair of hopelessly
ruined boots. But when Yal and Augusta
made out the situation of which Stella, for want
of looking behind her, was entirely ignorant,
they rushed over the sands at full speed,  Augusta
calling to her boy and Yal shouting to
Stella.

Stay where you are, Mrs. Latrobe," then
said Yalentine. " I will get them through.
There is no danger  don't alarm yourself."

Stella turned at their voices, to find herself
with the boy on a mere islet of sand with the
waters all round her, and Yalentine Cowley

dashing through, over his ankles, even now,
while the tide poured in and spread onward
almost as swiftly as a fleet horse could gallop.

Don't move till I come to you ! " said Valentine,
grateful to Providence for the chance.

How well he looked as he came on in the
sunshine, splashing through the rapidly rising
water ! It was the kind of action which becomes
a man and puts him in good humour with
himself, conscious as he is that he shows welland
makes a large display at a little cost. Yal
knew that he looked handsome and brave and
strong and helpful as he went striding through
the rising waters to where the girl whom he
loved, and the child of whom she had undertaken
the care, were standing. lie knew that
he showed well, and that he was laying the
foundations for future gratitude. He had never
been so finely posed as now ; and he intended
to make the best of the situation.

I am so sorry," said Stella in a humiliated
voice, feeling how the tables were turned, not
in her favour. " I don't know how I came to
be so stupid and neglectful."

You did not look round," said Valentine
with what he meant to be a soothing concession
to her wounded pride. " Now you must let me
carry you through. There is no real danger at

this moment, but there will be if you are not
quick. Here, you young powder-monkey, do
you hold fast up aloft," he continued, with a
reminiscence of the Pennefather manner in his
voice and action, as he snatched up the boy and
set him astride on his shoulders. Then, without
losing time in compliment or argument,
choosing not to hear Stella's declaration that
she would walk through on her own feet and
despise the wetting that would follow, he took
her bodily in his strong young arms ; and in
this way carried both her and the child in
safety through the waters. It was all done easily
and quickly ; for the young fellow was muscular
and well-trained in athletics ; and it had the air
if not the reality of saving life at his own risk
an air of which, as has been said, he intended
to make the most for future use. If he had not
been in love and repulsed, he would have been
the first to laugh at the whole matter as not
worth thanks of any kind. As things were he
was not sorry to be able to pose for a hero;
albeit the dangers encountered had been no
more formidable than if a white mouse had set
its teeth at him. Tendrils, weak and soft, help
to support the heavily-laden vine ; and Yal's
love could not afford to despise the most insignificant
little aid.

So they walked back to the inn, the young
man dripping from his knees downwards and
carrying his handsome head like a hero  Augusta
his friend and brother for life, seeing that
he had preserved her little boy from what
might have been indeed dangerous to him 
Stella, ashamed and annoyed with herself, her
heart set against gratitude and her conscience
pulling her towards thankfulness, in a most
uncomfortable and distracted state of mind
altogether, and with that feeling of slipping
down the incline, so terrible to her, yet which
Augusta had found anything but terrible not so
long ago. Still, as she was the only unhappy
one of the little group, the greatest happiness
of the greatest number carried the day.

As they went, Yalentine Cowley, too content
with life as it was and too certain of himself
and hopeful of results to make love in any overt
way  rather letting fate and fortune make love
for him  turned to Augusta, and not thinking
he was touching tender places said in a light
and airy way :

Who do you think came in the same train
with me from Grange this morning ? Mr.
Kemp !  with the prettiest woman you can
imagine  one of those fragile, slender, delicate
creatures who look made up of clouds and

moonbeams, with a pair of soft, brown eyes that
went half over her face and the sweetest voice
I ever heard. One of the sweetest," he added,
correcting himself; for her melodious voice was
one of Stella's ' points." " He seemed awfully-wrapped
up in her, I must say," Yal continued
with the same blundering ignorance of depths.
*' And I don't wonder at it ; she was so awfully
pretty and awfully good style."

Indeed ! " said Augusta, with a hard little
laugh and her fair face suddenly aflame. " All
Highwood seems to have gathered to St. Anne's''

' By Jove, talk of the Here he is ! " cried

Yalentine, as Sandro Kemp, carrying a shawl,
a camp-stool, a white umbrella, an olive-wood
folding-footstool, an artist's portfolio, and bearing
on his arm a tall, graceful, diaphanous-looking
woman, came out of the hotel door just
as Augusta and the others drew up, and thus-met
the little party face to face.

CHAPTER Iii.

COUSIN ETHEL.

Sandro's first impulse was to make a movement
of glad surprise towards that fair, false, morally
perjured woman  his first mental process was a
swift suppression of all the pain and wrath
which had possessed him since those cruel
words of undeserved insult, that heartless
abandonment of their pleasant friendship. His
next was a return to his now normal attitude of
wounded pride and outraged affection, and that
bitter assumption of indifference by which we
attempt to master our pain, and by which
instead of concealing it we show it.

As coldly as if this were nothing but a
chance meeting between two mere acquaintances,
Sandro Kemp lifted his soft felt hat to Augusta
and her party. He would have passed on with
the pretty woman and all her belongings on his

arm, had not Tony rushed at him, after the
manner of a child who knows nothing of the
meaning of things, and who would not hesitate
to make mud-pies out of Mecca clay, nor to take
cockshies at sacred symbols.

Oh, Mr. Kemp, where have you been away
to ? " he said, jumping about him like a little
dog. " I have been ill ; and grandmamma
gave me some jelly one night in a spoon ; and
Shah killed a robin redbreast in the snow ; and
the river was frozen  that bit where you made
mamma cry," he added with a suddenly serious
face.

Doubt as to the propriety of his own joy at
this unexpected meeting with one who had
dealt so evilly by mamma came visibly into his
clear eyes, his drawn mouth ; but his mother
smiled at him and then at their friend in an
amiable and inane way ; and her smile reassured
the child.

Why, Tony, do you remember me, little
man ? " said Sandro, flushing with pleasure.

He looked from the child to the mother 
from the eloquent little face, bright and
beaming, to that vague mask of inane amiability.

It would have been odd if he had forgotten
you," said Augusta, with perfect tranquillity
of voice and manner and a very audacity of

forgetfulness, such as the French would have
characterized as sublime.

But then this was essentially Augusta's way.
When she chose she could make herself like a
smooth palimpsest newly prepared for fresh
inscriptions and with all the old lettering
seemingly obliterated for ever. To see and
hear her at these times no one 'could believe
that anything had ever gone before  that the
history of a life lay hidden beneath the waxen
surface, the blank serenity, of the moment. As
now ; no one could have imagined by her
manner that a thought had ever connected her
future with Sandro Kemp  that a tear had ever
come into her eyes because of the pain of renunciation
 that the strong wing of passion had
ever swept over her as she stood midway, halting
for a moment, between duty and inclination 
that the darkness of despair had ever fallen
about her like a cloud because of the cruelty of
fate which denied what she desired. She met
him as if they had parted yesterday, and as if
nothing had ever been between them more thana
dance, a flower, a merry jest, a careless laugh.
Not the keenest onlooker could discern the
faintest shadow of feeling in her face, of
embarrassment in her manner. Not even
Stella, who knew something, could divine more ;

while Sandro himself felt bewildered, and as if
he had somehow lost his way. He was like a
man who, wandering among pathless crags andover
arid wastes, suddenly finds himself at
home, brought thither, as it seems to him, by
some act of enchantment as inexplicable as
delightful. Had he been a coward? or what
did it all mean ? Was she playing with him
now ? or had she been compelled to wound him
then ?

You have been away such a long time, Mr.
Kemp, it is quite delightful to see you again ! "
then said Stella, as her contribution to the odd
if pleasant confusion of the moment.

Her voice and manner were kind to exaggeration
; for she wanted not only to stand as
shield-bearer to Augusta, but to administer that
kind of cold douche to poor Yalentine which
consists in showing extreme warmth to one who
is confessedly indifferent, in contrast to the
chill reserve just shown another who is
confessedly making efforts to win favour. It is
the " high light " by which the whole picture
takes its tone and receives its key.

Sandro turned to her with a smile. Here at
least was no deception. Stella Branscombe had
no reason to mislead him. What she said was
all sincere, true, hearty; and her kindness

might be accepted as confidingly as it was
offered generously. It was the common
judgment of the world such as it is  that
judgment which each man believes so infallible
when he forms it !

The tall, graceful, diaphanous kind of woman,
who as Yalentine had said, seemed to be made
up of clouds and moonbeams, opened her big*
eyes and looked at Stella with frank surprise.
How odd this flattering manner from a girl to a
gentleman ! she thought. In her own life she
was accustomed to have men about her as her
slaves, not to make herself their incense-bearer !
But here was a girl who said to an unmarried
man how delightful it was to see him again,
and how long it was since they had met, in a
voice which seemed equivalent to a caress 
which was tantamount to flinging herself at his
head ! What wretched style ! What miserable
manners ! That elder woman was a little
better. There was none of this milkmaid
exuberance about her ; but really if this girl
intended to go on as she had begun, this
sojourn at St. Ann's, so necessary for health
and strength, would be immensely unpleasant.

While Sandro's companion had been thinking
all this in her own mind, Augusta had been
taking mental stock of her. Who was she, this.

tall, eminently graceful and poetic-looking
person ? She was very beautiful ; but it was a
pity that she made up so much. She was not
quite in her first youth, but beneath her veil,
thanks to powder and paint, to antimony round
her eyes and to artful touches everywhere, she
seemed to have the colouring of sixteen ; and
her figure, of that slender and sinuous kind
which retains its early forms far into the other
half of maturity, helped the general delusion.
She was dressed in the extreme of the prevailing
fashion. Her gown was as if moulded on her
like a second skin, and her skirts were tied
back with so much vigour that she could only
walk by plaiting her feet one before the other.
Her hat was a marvel of picturesque assimilation
; and beneath the feathers, which seemed
almost part of her head-gear as nature had
made it, her gold-coloured hair shone in the
sun like a much-frizzed nimbus  owing the
chief part of its glory to auri comus fluid and
soda washes. Her small feet were shod in
coquettish boots mounted on narrow heels like
miniature stilts ; her six-buttoned gloves were
of the palest grey ; and the bracelets, multitudinous
bangles, broad dog-collar, earrings and
brooch, with which she was in a sense armour-plated,
were of the finest kind of Indian

jewellery. Her face was delicately modelled ;
her style went to simulate more fragility of
health than was true ; and she had the air of
one accustomed to command, accustomed to be
ministered to, and, beyond all things, used to
the homage and admiration of men. And
again Augusta wondered how Sandro Kemp, of
all men, had come into toils like these, and how
he  the lover par excellence of truth and
simplicity  should be standing there with this
graceful piece of elegant make-up leaning as it
seemed to her triumphantly on his arm.

Suddenly the artist seemed to remember his
companion and their joint position.

Ethel," he said to her very courteously ;
let me introduce you to Mrs. Latrobe and
Miss Branscombe." To Augusta he said, as if
with emphasis : " My cousin, Mrs. White."
Then he looked at Stella. " Mrs. White has
just come from India," he said smiling. '' I
believe she knows some friends of ours out there
Mr. Cyril Ponsonby."

It was now Stella's turn to feel the ground
unsteady beneath her tread. Here before her
stood the cause of some, if not of all, her
sufferings  that Mrs. White to whom the
Pennefathers had said her own true Love had
turned the once sacred current of his affections 1

This woman, painted, artificial, made-np and
dangerous  the cause for which she, Stella, had
been banished so effectually from his life  was
now looking into her face, bowing, smiling,
speaking as any other might have done !

I have heard |of Miss Branscombe," said
Mrs. White in a sweet flute-like voice, with a
pretty little catch that just escaped being a
lisp.

Stella made a slight movement with her
head. Had her life depended on it she could
not have spoken.

"I used to see a good deal of Mr. Ponsonby,"
Mrs. White went on to say in her soft way.
"We got to be quite friends. He is such a
pleasant person ; and my husband liked him so
much."

We heard of your kindness to him," said
Augusta, coming to Stella's rescue, as just now
Stella had come to hers by emphasizing her
greeting to Sandro Kemp.

Oh ! I cannot speak about kindness," said
Mrs. White with a tender kind of smile. " In
India we are all kind to each other. We are
like one family, you know, and have less
stiffness than you in this cold England of
yours."

She was an Englishwoman herself, but part

of the furniture of her personality was the
affectation of foreign ways and corresponding
strangeness to all belonging to the old home.
She even spoke with a certain broken-backed
little accent, as if her native tongue had been
learned abroad  making her vowels very open,
pronouncing her small words with punctilious
breadth, and giving each syllable with commendable
distinctness.

He is a very nice fellow," said Augusta
with vague amiability ; and Ethel White, looking
at Stella, smiled again and said : " Very,"
as the echo.

All this time Yalentine had been standing
essentially shut out from the rest. He had not
been introduced to the graceful woman of whose
advent he had been the herald ; and for the
moment he was effaced. Wet from the knees
downward and set aside, he was conscious of
appearing ridiculous for the one part, and of
playing a very humiliating chord on the second
fiddle for the other. He was sore at heart,
wounded in his pride, and furious against that
vague mischance, that shadowy foe, called Fate.
Was there ever such an unlucky coincidence ! 
just when he had founded such an undeniable
claim to Stella's gratitude, and put their relations
on so much better a footing  built up

such a pleasant little temple where Love was
at once the architect and the enclosed god  to
have everything blown about his ears by this
inopportune meeting !

He stood there, his blood boiling as the name
of Cyril Ponsonby was bandied about from one
to the other. He saw how pale Stella had
become when the name of her reported rival had
been uttered, and how her eyes had suddenly
filled with memories of her old Love as patently
shown as if pictures had been painted on the
dilated pupils  as if words had been printed on
the darkened iris. It was too hard a trial for
his philosophy to bear with equanimity. He
was not disposed at any time to bear trials with
equanimity, more especially those which touched
his young man's pride ; and now the fever of
his wrath burnt like fire in his veins, and
expressed itself on his face and bearing as
plainly as those memories of Cyril had written
themselves in Stella's eyes.

But he was not going to give up his hope
to abandon the field. He would wrestle with
the shadowy rival, this haunting memory, as
Jacob wrestled with the angel. And perhaps
he would overthrow him. The Kingdom of
Heaven is won by much seeking ; and Yal was
pertinacious when he had made up his mind

and until that mind changed of itself, as it was
apt to do. The very difficulties in his way
made the struggle more enthralling and the
hope of attainment all the sweeter ; and  " les
absents ont toujours tort." He was present,
and Cyril was hundreds of miles away. He
could perform gallant actions which stood out
firm and solid as triumphant facts, while his
rival lived only in the misty atmosphere of
memory. On the whole his place might have
been more untenable than it was ; and he thought
he saw daylight.

Tired of being thus effaced, thinking that
Sandro had behaved with impertinent neglect
in not introducing him to his cousin and feeling-very
uncomfortable about those well-shaped
lower limbs of his, Valentine turned to Augusta
with his off-hand, easy air.

I think I will go in now, Mrs. Latrobe,"
he said. "I am rather dilapidated, and must
put myself into dry clothes."

A deep colour came into his fair, handsome
face, as he looked down on his stained and
dripping garments, not sorry to recall to Stella's
mind his heroic deed of half an hour ago, and
thinking it hard to have got wet, spoiled his
get-up, and then to be shunted as he had been.

"Yes, do. Indeed you should have gone

TOL. III. Iv

before," said Augusta eagerly. '' What a
thoughtless thing to do, standing there so wet
as you are ! We shall have you down with
rheumatic fever next

Do go in and change, Mr. Cowley," said
Stella, humanity overcoming repugnance.
'' We should not have let you stand here in
this state."

Valentine looked radiant as Stella spoke. It
was a little recompense that she should publicly
show so much interest in him  a little balm to
his wounded pride that she should give him
tender counsel before Cyril Ponsonby's intimate
friend  and his face brightened as if the sun
had passed over it.

That sudden brightness gave a tolerably
correct map of the country to pretty Mrs.
White. In all that related to love affairs and
the whole art and mystery of flirtation, she
had the vision of a hawk behind those large
lustrous eyes of hers. Mrs. Morshead herself
was not more an adept in the science of building
up an entire temple out of one brick, of
constructing a full-fledged creature out of one
bone, than was Ethel White, Sandro's cousin
from India. Here before her was a brick  at
her feet a bone ; and she made the most of
both.

Where shall you be in half an hour's time,
Mrs. Latrobe ? " then asked Yalentine.

"At home; in the prosaic act of dining,"
said Augusta with a smile. ' We have to dine
early on account of the boy ; and really tea
with shrimps and marmalade is not so bad.
And you ? "

I shall join you when you have finished
dinner, if you will allow me," said Yalentine,
purposely not looking at Stella.

Stella did look at Augusta, and her eyes
prayed her to say " Xo." But Augusta had
her own idea of things ; and when she had an
idea she generally kept to it pretty closely.
She liked Yalentine Cowley ; and she too
believed in the value of pertinacity, the force
of presence, and the disintegrating influence of
absence.

Yes, do come," she said genially. "It is
such a delightful day, we might make a little
excursion this afternoon. It would be pleasant
if you came with us."

"Most happy. That will do well," said
Yalentine. " At what time ? "

Three," said Augusta. " So now go in and
get rid of your wet clothes."

Ethel White looked at Sandro.

It would be very nice for us to go somewhere

too this afternoon," she said in her
pretty graceful way, showing an evident desire
to coalesce with Augusta and her party. " Do
you think we could, cousin Sandro ? "

Certainly ; nothing is easier if you would
like it," he answered.

Shall we join in one party ? " then said
Ethel, addressing Augusta as easily and amicably
as if they had been friends for a generation.


Perhaps this was part of that frank hospitality,
that oecumenical friendliness, for which Anglo-indians
are famous. Certainly the proposal
seemed to come quite naturally, without design,
premeditation or hidden meaning of any kind.
It would be pleasant to go in a body than in
two scattered and meagre detachments ; and,
being pleasant, Sandro's cousin said so, and
offered that sudden coalescence as the most
natural thing in the world. The faint pink
tinge for which she was famous came into the
widow's fair face. She put on her waxen mask,
smiled with inane amiability and looked perseveringly
at Stella.

It will be very pleasant," she said with an
affected little drawl. " What do you say,
Stella ? "

Yes ; it will be very pleasant," echoed

Stella, divided between her instinctive shrinking*
from Mrs. White, Cyril's favourite friend,
and her desire to be separated by " people "
from Valentine Cowley.

And Valentine himself, though he detested
the proposition, could scarcely negative the
decision of the others.

Sandro Kemp did not speak. lie simply
turned his grave, kind eyes on Augusta, a
little wonder, a little speculation and more
sorrow, more inquiry in them than he himself
knew of. But the engagement held good ; and
at three the break came round and they all
went off together.

They had a charming drive. The country
was beautiful ; the old castle which they went
to see was interesting ; the day was perfect ;
and no accident of any kind happened to mar
the enjoyment which each was supposed to feel.
They all kept very close together ; and everyone
but Val and Tony seemed determined to
resist all attempts at separation from the main
body, and to resolutely decline that dangerous
solitude a deux " which more than one had
reason to fear and from which no one had
great cause to hope. Sandro was naturally his
cousin's bodyguard; and to be Ethel White's
bodyguard was no sinecure and left but little

margin of freedom for aught else. Stella clmig
to Augusta as if her very life depended on keeping
tight hold of that firm round arm. She was
not to be tempted away by all Yal's invitations
to mount this bit of broken wall for the sake of
the view  to come with him to that angle of
the ruined court for the sake of architectural
effects. She clung to Augusta like a child ;
and like a child Augusta took care of her.
For her own part, the fair widow talked amiably
to Ethel White ; and Sandro kept silence. The
Pennefathers would have called him as dull as
old boots, but Augusta did not. For once or
twice their eyes met ; and when they did, it
was to her as if his had audibly asked her a
question, to which she took care to make no
reply. So the afternoon passed and with the
evening they all came home. But nothing had
been done to advance the various dramas holding
the stage save the introduction into the
circle of Ethel White, Cyril's chosen friend in
India and Sandro Kemp's favourite cousin, and
the easy manner in which she had established
herself as an old friend among them all.

CHAPTER Till.

THE CRIMSON BARS OF EVENING.

To a married woman living in India, a train of
admirers comes as naturally as a train of servants.
Why should she not be adored ? It
does the dear boys good to come about her
bungalow like so many tame rabbits ; and it
keeps them straight to have a friend like herself,
maternal and admonitory if she be their
junior and exceptionally pretty  their frank
playfellow and younger sister if older than
they and only comely or maybe commonplace.
And if it does them good it does her no harm,
and it makes her husband a little more on the
alert, a little more careful to keep what he has
got, than English husbands are in general.
Without question, a train of adorers is a very
pleasant addition to the social appanage of a
young wife in India ; and to do her justice she

seldom stints herself in the strength of her
following.

But what comes so naturally to her and the
dear boys who crowd round her in the compound
and run in and out her bungalow like so
many tame rabbits on the hunt for parsley, is a
state of things quite foreign to the life at home.
It takes a certain education before a young
Englishman of ordinarily healthy morality and
ordinarily honourable training can bring himself
to make love to a married woman, whether
her husband be his friend or no. And it soon
became evident to Ethel White that no happy
hunting-grounds were open to her here, and
that she must be content to feel herself distanced
by Stella, and shut out all round. This handsome
young fellow, this Yalentine Cowley, did
not attempt to take up the glove thrown down
by her expressive eyes. Neither during that
drive, nor after it, did he advance one step
towards that mental condition which the Doves
were wont to localize under the name of
' Spooney Green." He had eyes only for
Stella, and the attentions which he paid to her,
Ethel White, were of the coldest and most perfunctory
kind. How different from the devotion
which she was accustomed to receive in that
much-abused land of punkahs and rupees!

There she was supreme ; here she was iiohody
distanced by a little country girl without
style or furniture, and who had already a lien
on another !

Eeally this sojourn at St. Ann s threatened to
be horribly slow. Ethel wished now that she
had remained with her husband's stiff old aunt,
instead of breaking loose after a week's stay and
one fit of hysterics. She would not have been
duller there than it was evident she would be
here ; and she would have pleased her husband
and won golden opinions from his very stupid
family  which was always something gained.
Now, subordinate to Stella Branscombe with
this handsome Mr. Cowley ; knowing that there
had been an affair between her and Cyril 
on whom she had expended a large
amount of useless powder and shot ; and her
cousin Sandro somewhat odd in his manner to
this Mrs. Latrobe  who yet was nice enough
in her own way  it all was really too horrid ;
and no wonder she did not like it.

Her secret dissatisfaction however, showed
itself only in increased friendship to the women
and more and more delightfulness of gracious
queenhood to the men  in taking her place
among them all, as if born into it and coming
now frankly into her inheritance  and in

practically assuming the headship of everything"
and making every one subservient to her will,
while professing only sweet submission to the
vote of the majority. It was only her wretched
health, her stupid weakness which was in the
way at times. She was so sorry ; but she could
not help it, could she ? And how she envied
the great strong robustness of both Mrs. Latrobe
and Miss Branscombe ! If only she could be as
strong !

Her manner all through was perfect. Indeed
she was famous for her manner throughout the
Presidency. She had never yet met the man  
save Cyril Ponsonby  whom she did not make
her slave ;  and even Cyril was in some sense
her slave, though not exactly after the pattern
that she had designed. And she had ncAer met
the woman whom she had failed to secure as
an active friend or an innocuous neutral.
She was irresistible ; and she knew it ; the finest
flower of the finest lily-root of woman grown by
this nineteenth-century civilization. Besides all
this grace and dignity combined, she was extremely
strict in her views on morality and
social ethics ; unimpeachable on the score of
orthodoxy and ritual ; and her native admiration
for her husband was only equalled by the
philosophy with which she bore their separations

 which were frequent. She spoke very
much against women who laced tight, flirted in
public, were suspected of rouge and did not live
happily with their husbands. Hence, she was
eminently safe both as a maternal friend for
young men and as a sisterly companion for
girls.

The first day of the cousins' arrival passed
without other incident than this coalescence of
forces in the drive  this odd clinging together
like so many swarming bees, when at the castle.
Neither Augusta nor Stella " showed " in the
later evening ; and Valentine mooned among the
rocks alone and wondered what his best plan
really was  whether he should make Stella a
plain, straightforward offer as things stood, or
work away a little longer at that sapping and
mining which he fondly hoped would prove
successful in the end. When Ethel and Sandro
went out for that evening stroll on the sands
which comes in as part of the seaside duties, they
saw the young fellow standing against the
sunset sky, looking very lonely, very handsome,
very much as if he would be the better for a
nice little talk with a pretty woman who understood
the art of judicious stirring up. But he
did not accept the chance. With one quick
look to make sure that Stella was nowhere

pinned to the diaphanous woman's graceful
skirts, he lifted his hat and let the cousins pass
on, while he continued to stare at the sands and
the sky in alternate fluctuations of imbecile
despair and irrational anger. He was very
much disappointed and very much disgusted ;
and he did not care a straw for the challenge
flung down by the big eyes of this diaphanous-looking
woman. He cared only for Stella
Branscombe  only for her 1 And, wanting her,
neither youth nor health, neither the present
nor the future counted.

What a rude young man that Yalentine
Cowley is ! " said Ethel pettishly, breaking into
the midst of her cousin Sandro's artistic raptures
about the sunset.

'' Yal Cowley ? Oh, he is well enough ! " said
Sandro kindly.

'' Cousin Sandro, you are a great goose," said
Ethel with charming insolence. " You never
did understand anything, except your paint-box
; and you never will. You are just a
child."

I am sorry, dear," he began penitently.

What is the use of being sorry ? " she interrupted
crossly. ' That does not make you any
wiser. What is the good for instance of all this
rubbish about the sunset, when I am cold and

tired? All that yon say is great nonsense.
This vile English climate of yours is horrid.
And as for your stupid skies and .things, they
are nothing compared to ours. I have seen far
finer sunsets than this ; and it makes my eyes
ache to look at it. Let us go in. I want to
go to bed."

I am sorry you are tired, dear," said Sandra
again very kindly. " I am afraid I have made
you do too much."

I am so delicate ! " said Ethel with a sigh.
I am so sensitive to climate and fatigue and
everything of that kind. I am not like these
great English milkmaids of yours  this Augusta
Latrobe and Stella Branscombe. The look tome
like grenadiers in petticoats  great, strong,
coarse things ! I am a mimosa ; and they are
great, square, tough-skinned oaks ! "

Oh ! " said Sandro a little disconcerted.
But I am very sorry you are tired, Ethel.
Perhaps I have made you do too much. I must
take more care of you another time."

Oh, you cannot take care of any one ! " said
Ethel rudely. " You are nothing but a stupid
moony old artist. So good night, and try to
get a little more sense if you can. It would
not be to your disadvantage."

Saying which, she raised her big eyes to

Sandro with a look that was substantially a
caress, while she openly yawned in his face.

For all that, she had an irresistible manner,
and was famous for her power of fascinating-men
and conciliating women  even the women
whom she dispossessed.

' How very glad I was to see Mr. Kemp
again ! " said Stella the next morning. " Were
you glad too, Augusta ? " she asked earnestly.

Was I ? " returned Augusta, with a
heightened colour and a forced laugh. " That
is rather what lawyers call a leading question,
Stella mia. Yes and no. For some things I
was very glad ; for others I do not know what
to say ! "

But which is most  your pleasure or sour
doubt ? " the girl asked again.

*' Come ! come ! " remonstrated Augusta, still
laughing in the same forced way as before ;
who made you my inquisitor, young lady ?
Why should I confess to you ? "

' Because I love sou and am your friend,"
said Stella. "And donot laugh, Augusta; I
am so much in earnest ! "

Well, I will be in earnest, too," said Augusta,
suddenly becoming serious. " I am more
glad than sorry. I shall be much more glad

 r "



She stopped, looking out of the window in a
hesitating, half-bashful way.

'' If what, Augusta ? "

If I find that he has forgiven me a terrible
wrong which I was forced to do him some time
since, and that he likes me as much as he used
to do ; '' said Augusta, making a little movement
with her hands as if she had flung down
something on the table.

Then you do really love him ! I never felt
quite sure whether it was fancy or real love ! "
cried Stella, going up to her and kissing her
with that odd impulse of sympathy which one
woman feels for the love affairs of another.

I like him as much as I did  as much,
perhaps, as I could like any one," said that
disappointing Augusta, with a return to her
old cautious and more natural attitude.

Well enough to marry him ? " asked Stella.

Shall I wait till he asks me before I answer
that question ? " answered Augusta coldly ; and
the girl shrank back, feeling snubbed and rebuked.


If ever I marry again," Augusta went onto

say quietly ; 'rit will be to a man able to

support me well and to assure my boy's future.

Else, be assured, little girl, I never shall ! "

What an extraordinary woman you are ! "

said Stella, almost as if in soliloquy. "You
are unlike any one I ever saw before."

How ? and why ? " asked the widow.

"Such a strange mixture of reserve and
frankness  of high principle and such dreadful
worldliness ! " answered Stella.

"Because I have common sense, and act
upon it. What kind of mother should I be
if I doomed my child to poverty and disinheritance
that I might make a fool's paradise
for myself with a poor man? It is both
wiser and better philosophy to bear patiently
all the troubles which beset me at home, when
I can not do better for him by leaving them.
If I could improve, or keep his position even
with what it is now, I would marry  any one
I cared for  if he asked me ; but only on consideration
that Tony's future was not compromised."


Augusta spoke as calmly as if she had been
speaking of parallelograms and rhomboids rather
than the living impulses of love, the emotional
forces of a life.

Still it is strange to hear you discuss it all
so coolly," said Stella, far from being satisfied
and as far from being convinced.

She knew what it was to sacrifice love for
duty in her own life ; but this kind of frigid

calculation, this even balancing of accounts
and relative values, was another matter altogether.


"If you did not want to hear the true truth,
you should not have questioned me," said
Augusta.

I did want to hear the true truth," returned
Stella.

The widow shook her head, half seriously,
half playfully.

I tell you what it is, Stella mia," she
answered ; " you are like all the rest ; you want
to hear only what pleases you and what suits
your own ideas ;  not things as they are, but
things as they should be."

"If one loves any one one wants them to be
perfect," said Stella, her grammar false, her
sentiment true.

And this confession of mine that I would
not marry a poor man, even if I loved him,
and that I would marry a rich one with only
a moderate amount of affection, seems to you-very
imperfect, does it ? " said Augusta.

It seems too cold and calculating," repeated
Stella.

That is just what it is," Augusta exclaimed
with a smile. " And I defend it on the ground
that to be cold and calculating  that is, cool-vol.

III. L

headed and rational  is to be wise, when the
contrary is foolish."

It is not having much romance in one's
life," said Stella.

Certainly not ; but then you know I pride
myself on not being romantic," said Augusta
with exasperating tranquillity. " And, Stella
mia, the best thing that you could do would be
to follow my advice in this, and marry where
the conditions were suitable, without bothering
yourself too much about love. That would
come, as I said before."

Never ! " answered Stella.

As she said this the door opened and the
servant admitted Valentine Cowley. And when
he had bidden them smilingly " Good morning,"
asked after the health of each as anxiously
as if there had been cause for doubt, inquired,
with almost paternal interest, where Tony was
and how he did, and then disposed of his fine
person on a chair, Stella got up from her place
on the sofa and quietly left the room.

'' I do believe that Miss Branscombe positively
hates me ! " said Yal, stung to wrathful exaggeration
as Stella disappeared through the
doorway and left him to the widow.

' No, she is too gentle to hate any one, even
if she had reason," said Augusta quietly. " And

she has no reason, that I know of, even to
dislike, still less to hate, you."

*' She does, reason or not. And I am sure
I do not know what I have ever done to make
her dislike me so much'' said Yal still hotly.

Augusta looked up. Her calm face betrayed
the faintest little inclination to smile, and in
her quiet eyes was something that looked very
much like a mischievous little twinkle.

Don't you think you follow her up a little
too openly ? " she said, with commendable demureness.
'' I think she gets a little frightened,
and as if she did not know what was coming
next. She is not a girl who cares for the
admiration of men ; and I think if I were you
I would be more reserved and not show my
hand quite so openly."

I cannot help it ! " said Valentine. " I do
admire her, Mrs. Latrobe, more than I have
admired any girl in my life. She is Supreme ;
my highest idea of a woman. Were I an artist
I would paint Stella Branscombe as Dante's
Beatrice."

You mean to say that you are desperately
in love with her," said Augusta quietly.

Perhaps I am," he answered with a deep
blush, making a feint to be uncertain.

** You know you are," said Augusta. " We

all know it  Stella too, if she would but
own it."

Then, if she does, she treats me cruelly," he
said in much agitation.

Why ? Would you have her give you false
hopes ? " asked the widow.

Why should they be false ? " pleaded Yal.

She shrugged her shoulders.

Who can control these things ? " she said.
If Stella saw with my eyes matters would be
very different."

Then you are still my friend ! " he cried ina
voice of triumph.

He could not have used a more jocund tone
had she promised him an earldom and given
him a fortune.

Undoubtedly," she said in her quiet way.
I have always told you so. I despise Mr.
Branscombe so much that I would give worlds
to see Stella freed from him. She is unhappy
it is at home  she would be more unhappy
still if she knew all ! "

Ah, I see," said Yal, holding ujd his head.
I am only a pis-aller even to you ! You would
have her take me to escape from her father ; 
not because she loved me  not because I love
her and am worthy of her love."

"My dear Mr. Cowley," said the widow

smiling ; " I am one of those cold-blooded creatures
who think that love is only one of the
ingredients in marriage. We want so much
else ! I would not counsel what even I should
call a good marriage where there was decided
dislike ; but provided there is harmony of taste,
mutual respect and no pronounced aversion, I
think a well-arranged marriage, without any
great amount of love, has as much chance of
turning out happily as one with. You know as
well as I that Stella was engaged to Cyril
Ponsonby ; and you can see as well as I that
she has not quite got over her disappointment
even yet. I should be very glad if you could
make her forget him, as there seems no chance
of that affair coming on again ; but "

But you would prefer Mr. Ponsonby ? " interrupted
Yal with sarcastic fury.

Of course I should ! " she answered. " Failing
him "

You would back me ? " was his second
interruption, as sarcastic and furious as the
former.

Certainly. You are a very nice fellow ;
you love her ; you have enough now, and will
have a splendid position when your father dies.
I think it would be a charming marriage," said
Augusta with maddening coolness.

"You flatter me!" said Yal, the " risus
sardonicus " contorting his face.

Oh ! I have always been your advocate
since the marriage with Cyril Ponsonby was
broken off," said Augusta simply.

And here the conversation ended abruptly ;
for Sandro Kemp and Ethel White came in to
make one of those formal visits in use among
people who, living in the same place and doing'
the same things at the same hours, see each
other two or three times a day but feel bound
all the same to pay formal visits to each other's
rooms, as if they lived miles apart and met only
by chance once a month in general society.

The time at St. Ann's passed pleasantly
enough for all concerned if we except Stella,,
whose pleasure was of a more intermittent kind
than the others found theirs to be. The facilities
of meeting were many and liberally utilized,
and the five friends were, in a manner, inseparable.
Still they clung together like five
roses in a bunch, and private interviews between
any two were of the things which were not.
Mrs. White was always the centre, and the rest
hung about her as bees round their queen. She
had taken a great fancy to Stella, whom she
treated as a younger sister needing careful
chaperonage  and having it ; Yal was to her asa

younger brother, she said  "just what Cyril
Ponsonby used to be to me ! " she used to add
in her sweet, languid way  fetching, carrying,
meandering about her all day long in concert
with cousin Sandro ; and Augusta Latrobe washer
confidante and never let out of sight. Thus
it came about that no private interviews were
possible where Ethel AVhite was queen, and
Sandro and Augusta looked at each other across
the space that divided them  looked and longed
and nothing more !

The evening promised to give one of those
absolutely perfect sunsets which sometimes at
the seaside make life an acted canto of poetry
and the earth a very paradise of beauty. The
wide dome was like one large opal, marked here
and there with narrow crimson bars where the
light airless clouds caught the redness of the
sinking sun ; but save these forestalling bars
the whole dome was of resplendent purity, as
bright and tender in its passage from the gold
of the west to the purple of the east, as if this
strong North Sea were the lagoons of Venice
or the waters of the Mediterranean. All the
visitors at St. Ann's had turned out on to the
sands to watch the final decline of the sun ; and
among the rest were the five friends :  Ethel
dressed as if for a foreign opera-house where she

might wear her bonnet, and with the paint and
powder well concealed beneath her tightly-drawn
white tulle veil. Naturally they all met
on the sands ; and as naturally when they had
met they did not separate.

Ethel, giving cousin Sandro her folding-seat,
her olive-wood footstool and her umbrella,
asked Yal to carry her shawl. She then took
Stella's arm as her aid ; thus placing herself
between the girl and the man who loved her.
Augusta was on Stella's other side ; Sandro was
walking in line, but at a little distance from
them all. Seeing Tony doing something reprehensible
with the seaweed, Augusta detached
herself from the group and went back to the
child. Before she knew what she was about
she found herself alone with Sandro Kemp 
Tony, out of his scrape and free from slime,
running on ahead. It was the first time since
his arrival that the artist had been with the
widow out of earshot of his cousin ; and he felt
his heart beat as if it would break itself to
pieces against his ribs, as he walked by the side
of the woman whom he loved and who had paid
back that love with such undeserved contempt
such cruel wrong.

He looked at her as she walked by his side
with her easy step, at once light and firm ; her

upright carriage, supple and yet so strong ; her
calm face, which seemed to him the face of a
goddess  or was it only the face of a woman
who knew her game and played it with judgment
? The fixed smile, which he knew so welland
which concealed so much, was on her lips,
and her eyes had drawn over the soul, which
else would have shone through them, that mask
of calm candour, of indifference that was almost
hardness, which with her implied an effort and
betrayed a struggle. Both he shared. For he
was doing his best to keep back that love which
outraged pride should have destroyed for ever
which should have died when his self-respect
had been assailed. And he could not 1 he could
not!

Tell me," he said abruptly, when the silence
between them had become too eloquent, too
oppressive ; " why did you write that letter ? "

It was my mother's doing," said Augusta,
looking straight before her.

It nearly broke my heart," said Sandro, his
voice faltering. " It made me doubt both
Providence and humanity."

I am sorry," said Augusta very softly.

And your mother made you ? It was not
jour own will ? It did not come from your
heart ? "

He spoke in a low and agitated voice, to
which the gentle murmur of the receding tide
came as a symphony, lending it cadence and
melody.

How should it have come from my own
heart?" she answered. 'what reason had I
to write such a cruel note to you ? "

It was cruel ! You knew that it was
cruel ? " He took her hand and laid it on his
arm. " You knew how I must suffer ! " he said
again.

I knew that it was indefensible," she
answered.

I wish I could read you ! " said Sandro
feverishly. 'you have always been the one
woman in the world to me  the one perfect
woman ; but you have always been my Sphinx,
too  lovely and inscrutable ! "

Have I ? " she said.

She turned to him, and her eyes put off their
mask for one instant. It was only for an instant
but it was enough. He caught his breath, and
felt as if he staggered as he walked. What
was false and what was true ?  and which, of all
those varying motives, those crossing feelings,
was to be accepted ? "

"You know that I am now rich," he said,
speaking in the same sudden way as before.

Yes," she answered frankly.

' Was it only my poverty in days gone by
that stood between us ? "

She looked at her little son.

'' Yes," she answered. " It was for his
sake."

And now when I am rich ? "

The crimson bars were burning slowly into
purple ; the golden glories of the burnished
west were fading, and the translucent beauty of
the opal was passing into one universal space
of blue. One by one the stars came out as the
day sank deeper into the sleep of night. From
vapoury cloud the moon was now becoming
clear and silvery. The soft peace and rest of
night were falling on the earth and the hot
turmoil and hard struggle of the day were
done.

And now when I am rich ? " he asked
again.

You have all the power you wanted," she
answered softly.

Power to win your love ? "

That was never wanting," she said. " I
had to be prudent but "

A vivid blush and two sudden tears completed
her sentence.

My Queen ! My beloved ! At last I have

readied my goal and now see heaven open
before me ! " said Sandro. " Now that I have
won you I forget all the rest. And, perhaps,"
he added with all his old generous magnanimity ;
"perhaps I love you better for the pain you
gave me, because it shows how great and good
you are and how you can, when need be,
sacrifice yourself to your duty."

It wanted only that ! " said Augusta with
indescribable tenderness of voice and face.
*' Now you hold me for ever ! "

Just then the party before them came back
on their steps.

Cousin Sandro," said Ethel languidly,
*' would you give me my pliant and footstool ?
And would you mind holding the umbrella
over me ? I am so tired and the wind is so
cold!"

CHAPTER IX.

THE WEAVING WEB.

"I AM SO sorry, Augusta ! "

About what, Stella, pense rosa ? " laughed
the widow.

For herself she did not look able to be very
sorrowful about anything this morning. Never
had her face been so sincerely bright ; never
had been so frankly laid aside that mask of
suave amiability, that appearance of unemotional
suavity, which it was so often her best policy
to assume. Her laugh had the joyous cadence
of a child's  laughing because she was glad,
and glad she scarcely knew why ; her happy
eyes, softened by love, shone clear and bright
as the stars of last night's sky; her fair face
looked younger, rounder, fresher than ever ;
that pretty dimple in her cheek was deeper and
her skin was as transparent as a rose-leaf. She
had put back her age ten years at the least since

those fiery crimson bars had burned themselves
out in the evening sky, to be lost in the tender
peace of the silver moonlight  since the moment
when Sandro Kemp had made the dark things
clear, and had knitted up the ravelled sleeve of
doubt and despair into a garment of certainty
and divine content.

All the burden of her days was laid aside.
She stood now free and unoppressed. For the
first time in her life she was both safe and
supremely happy. The man whom she loved
loved her ; he was rich, and she was - to marry
him. She was to escape from the grinding
thraldom of her mother's house, yet keep her
boy's future secure. The stars were on her
side ; fate had borrowed the golden wheel of
fortune ; and all her flowers had borne their
fruits. She was happy ;, oh, how happy ! And
here was Stella looking into her face with a
pucker of trouble on her own.

It seemed almost sacrilege to Augusta that
any one should be dissatisfied to-day. Surely
life was good and the earth divine for all !

What is troubling you, dear ? " she asked
after a short pause, during which Stella had
looked at her with a certain, scarce reproach so
much as surprise, on her sensitive face for this
unsympathetic brightness on her friend's.

I have had a letter from papa," said Stella.

Yes ? and then ? He does not want you at
home just yet, does he ? " asked the widow.

No ; but he tells me I am to ask Hortensia
Lyon to come and stay with me," said Stella.

And that afflicts your little ladyship ? "

I do not like it," said Stella gravely.

She wished that Augusta would be more
serious this morning, when she herself was so
much disturbed !

You do not like Hortensia, you mean ? "
said the widow.

Not much," answered Stella.

"Then why have her always, and always at
Rose Hill ? " asked Augusta.

Papa likes her," answered Stella.

Oh," said Augusta dryly. After a short
pause she added frankly, with a pleasant laugh
to take off the sting ; *' What a goose you are,
Stella mia ! "

Why ? " asked Stella, smiling for sympathy,
but again a little surprised, this time by the
vagueness as well as the abruptness of the
accusation.

Because you never see a danger until you
are in the midst of it," answered the widow.
You got surrounded by the tide the other day
for want of looking about you. Val Cowley

helped you off then ; you had better let him
help you now out of a worse mess."

Mr. Cowley  how I wish you would not
speak of him," said Stella petulantly. " I hate
his very name ! "

"Do I not tell you that you are a goose?"
returned Augusta tranquilly. " You would do
far better to like it the best of all names in the
world, and to let him help you."

Help me from what ? What is the worse
mess you hint at ? " asked Stella with a little
shiver of dread as at the passing of ghostly footsteps
 something intangible, yet full of terror.

If you do not see it I will not enlighten
you  at least not to-day," said the widow
significantly but lightly. " Only, let me say
again, you are to blame, my dear, for not
escaping from the incoming tide while you can.
Meantime, you have to write to Hortensia Lyon
and beg her as a favour to come and interrupt
our happiness. Ah ! you see, even you, my
straightforward Stella, have to be a little fox at
times and work in ambush like others. Even
you have to say one thing and mean another  
as we all must on occasions ! "

First a goose and next a fox  what next ? "
said Stella forcing a laugh.

And a duck always ! " returned that silly

Augusta, looking at lier with strange tenderness
silly and tender both, because she was so
happy !

So the letter was written as Mr. Branscombe
had desired, and Hortensia was besought
to come to St. Ann's for a little change
of air; it would do her so much good and
give her affectionate friend Stella so much
pleasure ! And when this was done, and the
letter posted beyond recall, Augusta had to
spend some of her surplus strength and serenity
in persuading her poor coldhearted friend that
it was the very best thing in the world which
could have happened ; and that they would be
all the merrier, according to the old proverb, by
the introduction among them of that one more,
albeit the most notorious wet-blanket and puritanical
kill-joy to be found in Highwood.

' We will put her and Mrs. White together,"
said Augusta, laughing like a harebrained
school-girl. " How they will hate each other !
They will be like two Kilkenny cats, or a
couple of Sir John Lubbock's stranger ants.
There will be nothing left of either in a short
time."

But Stella was moody and a little cross, and
between Yal Cowley and Evangeline saw
nothing to laugh at in the matter.

VOL. III. M

-

Hortensia will never consent to go with
Mrs. White," she answered, wilfully malKng
the worst of things. " She will fasten herself
on me from morning to night. I know her so
well ! And of course, as I am her special friend
and have had to ask her, I shall be forced to
look after her. And then I shall see nothing of
you, Augusta ! "

She forgot that, if this view of Hortensia's
advent and its results were true, she would be
protected from Yal Cowley's unwelcome attentions,
even if cut off from her present close
communion with Augusta. She was too much
disturbed to remember anything by way of
mitigation.

*' Oh yes, you will ! You will see as much
of me as you do now  as much of me as you
like," answered the widow cheerily. " Courage !
It may not turn out so badly after all. You
will always have me as your background, of
course ; and if Mrs. White is of no good, your
poor despised Yal Cowley will come in useful asa
paratonnere," she added with good-humoured
maliciousness. .

Nothing could be more delightful than
Augusta's manner and nothing could be less
natural. It Alas the truth, but not the whole
truth  nothing feigned, but something concealed.


Stella's colour came suddenly into her face,
Tint as suddenly the egoistical trouble which
had clouded it left it free, expansive, loving, as
it was by the royal gift of nature. She fixed
her eyes with an eager kind of light on her
friend.

Only these ? " she asked smiling and with
meaning. " Mrs. White, Mr. Cowley, yourself
no one else that I may count on for championship
? "

"And Tony, who is devoted to you. You
are the boy's first love, Stella. Little scamp !
he has begun early ! " said Tony's mother quite
pleasantly, not looking at her friend and not
rising to her fly.

And no one else ? " asked Stella again.

You mean Mr. Kemp ? Of course, Mr.
Kemp. He has always been your faithful friend
and preux chevalier, and is as devoted to you in
his way as Tony is in his. Of course, Mr.
Kemp," said Augusta, with studied indifference,
still declining to be '' drawn."

But what she declined Stella divined. Going
behind the sofa, where the fair widow sat, very
prosaically mending the knees of her boy's
stockings, Stella bent back her head and kissed
her on the forehead.

My darling ! dear, dearest Augusta ! " she

said softly. " No more tears now by the riverside
! All dried now, Augusta, since last
evening ! I am so glad, so glad ! "

Silly child ! What do you mean ? " laughed
the widow, putting up her soft white hand
to caress the face bending so lovingly over
hers.

"Everything. Tell me the truth. It is, is
it not, Augusta ? " asked Stella, in the enigmatic
language of confidential women handling a love-secret
daintily.

It was a language however, that was as well
understood by the hearer as by the speaker  an
enigma to which each had the key. The soft,
clear eyes of the pretty widow grew dark arid
humid, and her fresh mouth slightly quivered
as she smiled.

"Yes," she said; "it is. Oh, Stella, how
happy I am ! Ah ! my child, how I wish that
you had as much true happiness as I have today!
Waited for so long, and now come at
last 1 So perhaps it will be for you."

Your happiness is mine, darling," said
Stella tenderly ; but her soft eyes filled with
tears which somewhat belied her braver words.
It will come ! " said the widow lovingly ;
and then the boy rushed, shouting and skipping,
into the room and cut short the delicately

confidences of the friends by the
prodigality with which he gave his own.

The promise of the glorious sunset and the
message of the tranquil night were well kept
in the exquisite beauty of the day. It was a
-day when to live was blessedness  what then
was it to live, to love and to be loved ! And
sifter Augusta had fulfilled her prosaic but, all
things considered, necessary domestic duty of
weaving mats over the holes and running shafts
up the " Jacob's ladders " of Tony's stockings,
she and her two " children " went out on the
sands as usual. As usual too, they were joined
by the cousins and Yal Cowley ; and the parti-coloured
web of their various lives went on
weaving itself in the old way.

No great change in the external aspect of
things was made this morning. They all kept
in a compact body because Ethel needed now
cousin Sandro's arm and now Yal Cowley's
hand ; because the one had to carry this and
the other had to give her that ; because dear
sirs. Latrobe  whom might she call Augusta ?
was so full of information on every question
she could not do without her as her charming
encyclopaedia ; and dear Miss Branscombe 
whom really she must call Stella, might she ? 
looked so sweet in that grey felt hat with that

soft scarf wound so picturesquely round her
she must positively be put into cousin Sandro's
sketch book ; because she posed as a queen and
lisped her songs of enchantment like a siren,
and so brought both men and women under the
sway of her sceptre and the spell of her power.
Thus, she made it impossible for the little party
to fall asunder or to follow their own devices,
and she kept them briskly to their main duty
of attending on her.

So the morning passed in all outward appearance
of serenity, if secretly the sense of frustration,
capture, disappointment and boredom
rather spoiled the spirit of the thing ; and in
the afternoon the hotel break came round at
three o'clock, as usual, and the six souls at this
moment blended in one group, re-assembled at
the door for their daily drive. They had
arranged to go again to that fine old castle
which had been the object of their expedition
on the memorable day when had arrived Sandro
Kemp with his cousin Ethel White, and Yal
Cowley with only love as his comrade ; and to
some at least among them those grey old stones
would wear a different aspect and tell a different
story from that which they had worn and told,
counting by time, not so very long ago. Counting
by time not so very long ago, but by events

low infinite the space between now and
then!

How beautiful it was ! Fresh yet genial, the
air blowing from the distant mountains set like
a blue barrier between earth and sky, was as if
full of hope and life and faith and love ; while
the grand old castle, standing as a witness of the
hoary past all now crumbled to ruin and decay,
was also as a witness of the lush and living-present
in the thick luxuriant growths which
spoke of spring-time and its vitality  in the
subtle scents which added grace to strength 
in the tender flowers which gave beauty to
endurance and concealed the scars of time by
the touch of love. Here somehow, the little
group usually kept so close and compact did
get separated. While Valentine Cowley was
holding her large white umbrella over Ethel,
as she leaned with plaintive grace on his strong-young
arm -her other hand laid on Stella's
shoulder for double support to her weakness
and sisterly companionship to her soul  Sandro
and Augusta found themselves opportunely lost
somewhere about the outer lines. They were
by the side of the old dry moat where no one
spied after them, and where little Tony, at once
their bond and their shield, knew no more of
what was passing between them than did the

birds in the bushes or the lambs in the fields.
It was like these two lovers not to speak of
their future ; not to make plans for remote days ;
not to anticipate dates or events. They knew
that they were sure ; but they knew also that
Augusta would have to pass over burning-ploughshares
before she should come to her
final peace in love. Sufficient then for the day
was its joy as its sorrow; emphatically sufficient.
They walked together scarcely speaking ; but
sometimes his long, long look into the eyes
which, no longer veiled, glassy, cold, were now
so frankly tender, so eloquent of a love at once
honest, pure, faithful and not ashamed, was
like speech to both ; and sometimes her soft
questioning face was like a loving caress to -
him, which his smile returned. How happy
they were !  how trustful, how strong ! It was
love without any of love's folly, void of his fears,
free of his doubts ; it was love which gave life
and was ready for death. It was the love of
a man and a woman who knew the value of the
stakes for which they had played and now had
won  a man and woman who had known the
sorrow of the struggle before they had come to
the glad triumph of the victory. But it was
quiet, undemonstrative, assured, serene. It was
love that was felt, not love that was made  it

was love that was a fact and a vow, and in
nowise a mere hope or a dream. And thus it
was that in the undisturbed security of this
-quiet wandering through the deserted courts
and alleys of the old ruined castle, the future
was not touched on and the rich totality of the
present was accepted almost as if it were all
that was to be.

At last this pleasant ramble was interrupted
by the trio whereof Ethel was the central figure.
Incautiously Sandro and Augusta passed the
open space whence those in the inner court
looked out across the breach to the landscape
beyond. The quick eyes of the '' Queen "
caught the passing figures ; and henceforth their
isolation was at an end. Cousin Sandro must
be brought back to his duty of attendance, and
Augusta Latrobe must be made to understand
hers of subordination.

Cousin ! Cousin Sandro ! " Ethel called in
her clear, SAveet, flute-like voice. " Cousin
Sandro ! "

He looked at Augusta with a smile deprecating
and regretful. She looked back at him
with a smile that matched his own, cheerful
but regretful too. There was nothing for it
however, but to turn up through the opening
and go back to their former posts  their little

spell of eloquent silence and loving liberty at
an end.

Cousin Sandro," said Ethel very prettily ;
I do wish that you would make a sketch of
this view. It is so lovely ! Make a nice little
sketch, cousin, and put us all in ! "

Ethel was one of those women who never
let a man forget his profession. If an artist,
she would perpetually beg him to make a sketch
of this, a picture of that, and give it to her ;
if a musician, no matter of what rank nor of
what delicate organization, she would beg fora
" little music " on an ill-toned piano, for a
nice little song " out on the lake or the moor.
Of a philosopher she would have asked, in a
coaxing way ; " Tell me what Hegelianism or
Spinozaism is ? " Of a mathematician she
would have demanded the explanation of logarithms,
or how " to do " algebra. Wherefore
now, to cousin Sandro, she said : " Make a nice
little sketch, cousin, and put us all in ! " as
she would have asked Tony to pull her a
daisy.

I will make a sketch if you like, but I do
not know about putting you all in," said Sandro
gently. " I have not time to make you perfect;
and I would not like to spoil you."

Well ! do something," said Ethel with

pretty authority, tapping this arm with her fan ;
and her cousin smiled and obeyed.

This " passed the time," as people say  that
time which passes so much too quickly for us
all ! until Ethel was tired of sitting there even
as queen of her little court ; and again they
began to make those explorations which were
the ostensible reason of their visit to the old
ruin. By one of those odd pieces of chance
shuffling which sometimes happen with people
as with cards, Yal Cowley and Stella were
thrown together alone, to his delight and the
girl's dismay. They were on that same lower
line where Augusta and Sandro had walked 
by the side of the old moat. This was now
dry and grassy and filled with wild-flowers of
all kinds ; while against the walls of the outer
court grew sundry rose-bushes, choked with
docks and wild-briars, and themselves almost
wild for lack of care and cultivation.

Valentine was in his element in a scene like
this. He had a keen imagination and a facile,
fluent knack of ornate speech which made a
good substitute for true poetry. The present
scene excited him, and the rare opportunity of
a confidential talk with Stella excited him still
more. Though he laiew that he made no way
with her and that her face was set as a flint

iigalnst him, lie lived ever in expectation of the
new birth and the working of the miracle that
was to change all. At this moment he was a
knight of olden time and she was a gentle lady
to whom he paid his devotions ; so he launched
out into time and space, and, always meaning
himself and Stella, poured forth a rhapsody
about the chivalrous past, of which, of course,
he made his ideal society. It was a torrent of
words as pretty to listen to as he was handsome
to look at ; and, with that undercurrent of
meaning to give it life, it was not the mere
fustian that else it would have been. It had
the merit of earnestness of intention, if the
method was a little affected ; and Stella could
not be deaf to the real meaning of it all.

At last they came to a plot of rose-trees
which had once been evidently objects of some
care. Now they were mere graceful sweet-scented
weeds, scarcely worthy of the name of
roses at all. Yal, having finished a spirited
sketch of a tournament wherein he was the
successful knight and Stella was the Queen of
Beauty, suddenly changed the key-note of his
fanciful melody as he stopped before this plot of
neglected rose-trees.

What an emblem of life ! '' he said in a
melancholy voice. " What a visible sign of the
wasting power of neglect and loneliness ! "

Stella looked Y\dtli studied indifference at the
straggling, spindle bushes.

Yes ; they want pruning dreadfully ! But
the are of a very poor kind' she said in a
dull, matter-of-fact way that had far more
power of wounding in it than if she had argued
the question on its merits and had laughed at
the sentimental application.

Her manner was so wounding, so matter-of-fact,
so chilling, that Valentine found it impossible
to go on, and stopped short in his display.
How could he continue these brilliant fireworks
of fancy in the face of a leaden indifference
which acted on his mind as some kind of
paralyzing agent acts on the nerves ? At times
he felt as if he hated this girl whose love he
was making these ever baffled, ever unsuccessful
efforts to win ; and this was one of them.
Then his sudden ill-humour passed, and he
forgave her because he loved her.

He halted for the second time before one
large straggling bush, where the young pink
buds were beginning to show themselves among
the leaflets of tender green, through the tangle
of weeds and coarser growths which threatened
to choke the whole tree.

Cognisance gave Lothair a rose," he said
significantly. " Will you be my Cognisance and

make me your Lothair ? Will you give me a
rose, Miss Branscombe ? "

I never act charades," said Stella coldly.

"Would it be a charade to give me a flower?"
asked Yal hastily.

Something like it," returned Stella.

Charades are acted words. What word
would that make ? " said Yal, making an effort
over himself not to be offended. " Miss Branscombe
gives Valentine Cowley a rose ;  what
can one make out of that? Something that
would express the lady's bestowal of her favour
on her knight. Can you think of anything,
Miss Branscombe ? "

No," said Stella curtly ; " and if I knew of
any word it would not fit, for certainly I shall
not give you a flower, nor, if I did, would it belike
a lady bestowing her favour on her knight ;
quite the contrary."

Now all this was rude and ungentle enough ;
but Stella was getting frightened at her position
and felt that she must break through the toils
weaving themselves around her, at once and
unmistakably if at all. If only she could
prevent that declaration which was so near,
and which would be such a mistake when
made !

Just then Tony came singing round the

corner. With what a sense of relief the half-frightened,
half-revolted girl called to him to
come and see the beautiful green beetle in the
grass at her feet, like a glittering jewel fallen
from the sky to the earth ! In her eagerness
to escape from her present companion she fairly
ran to catch the flying little Puck whose madcap
humour was not to be depended on. And Yal
understood why. He bit the inside of his
cheek savagely, and turned away humming a
fragment of Offenbach to express an indifference
of equal weight and measure with her own.
But he failed, as of course ; and Stella had the
girl's naughty pleasure of knowing that she
had not only saved herself from an unpleasant
confession but that she had annoyed the man
who had wanted to make it. For the cruellest
and most heartless creature in the world is the
woman who is pursued against her will by a
man whom she does not like.

Yal spent all that remained of the afternoon
in the most devoted attention to Ethel White.
But Ethel, who understood the whole science
of love-making from A to Z, was not deceived
by this sudden fervour, and laughed softly to
herself as she looked at Stella from between
her narrowed eyes.

Three days after this the train brought to

St. Ann's not only Hortensia, who was expected,
but Mr. Branscombe and Randolph
Mackenzie, of whom no one had dreamed.

In spite of Mrs. Lyon's dislike to the proposal
perhaps a little because of that dislike and
its somewhat imprudent expression  Mr. Lyon
allowed his little maid to accept Stella's invitation.
And even when old Finery Fred said
that he himself would take the dear child, even
then Hortensia's father did not disapprove,
though her mother did. He accepted the offer
as frankly as it was made ; but he supplemented
it by slipping a bank-note into Randolph's
hand, saying :

I should like you to go, too, Ran, my boy.
You will take care of your cousin ; and it will
be a nice outing for you."

If any one is wanted to take care of the
child I ought to go, William," said Mrs. Lyon
tartly.

Oh ! she will do well enough with Stella
to amuse her and Mrs. Latrobe to look after
her ! You are best at home with me. Car a,"
returned the husband.

But why is Mr. Branscombe going ? " asked
Cara uneasily. " I do not like it, William ; I
do not like it at all ! " she repeated, with the
reduplication so much indulged in by weak
people.

Why should he not go to his daughter,
wiseacre ? " laughed her husband, a little contemptuous
in his playfulness.

William, you are blind and deaf, and worse
than mad ! " said Mrs. Lyon angrily. " You
do not see that the child likes that old fop a
great deal better than she ought ; and you
encourage what will some day be her ruin and
your own shame. Now I have said it ! " she
added, folding her hands with a kind of desperate
resignation to sin and its punishment.

No, Cara, it is you who are mad," answered
her husband still more angrily. " Like all silly
women you run your foolish head against posts
of your own making, and see dangers which do
not exist out of your own heated fancy. You
are always in full cry after love  love, love
everywhere ! An old fellow like that  older
than I am  his wife not dead quite a year 
and the child young enough to be his granddaughter
! It hurts me to think you capable
of imagining such a monstrosity," he added,
getting up and walking about the room, fuming
with rage against his wife. Finery Fred Branscombe,
his little maid and life in general, but
not against himself nor his decision.

And when it is too late you will have to
confess that I was right," said Mrs. Lyon,

VOL. nr. N

roused to that point of irritation which has
no fear of consequence. " But you are like all
men, William ; you never see an inch beyond
your own nose, and you are far too conceited
to allow that other people see better than yourselves
! "

I have more faith than you, both in the
child's common sense and propriety of feeling",
and in the natural goodness of the human
heart," said Mr. Lyon loftily ; " and let us
hear no more about it, Cara. It is my will
that she goes to St. Ann's ; the change will do
her good ; and Ean will look after her."

I wish I had died when she was born, and
then you might have had her all to yourself
and done what you liked with her for ever ! "
said Mrs. Lyon, bursting into tears.

But when she began to sob her husband's
heart softened towards her, as indeed it always
did when she broke down, if he never changed
his resolution for the sake of her tears ; and
after having given her a friendly kind of kiss
and told her not to be a fool but to trust more
to him than she did, he proposed that they
should have an outing on their own account
while their little maid was away, and that they
should go to Manchester for a week. And
when he had done this, he had satisfied his

\

masculine conscience, and henceforth held himself
free to consider the whole thing at an end
and all his shortcomings atoned for.

"She is a good soul," he said to himself;
but as weak as water and as soft as butter.
Still, she is a good soul, and deserves a little
care when she gets low. And she shall have it."

She on her part thought :

William is a dear old fellow, but he treats
me like a child, and thinks he can make me
forget how he wrongs me as a mother by
giving me a little treat or a new bonnet  as
if I were a mere baby or really the fool he
thinks me ! "

So the waxen surface here was more of a
surface than either suspected the other knew.

CHAPTER X.

UNDER PRESSURE.

The arrival of the three new comers from
Highwood shifted the whole arrangement of
things at St. Ann's. To Augusta and Sandro it
brought the relief of comparative freedom, with
the need of still more vigilant prudence if the
did not want their affairs made public property
betimes ; to Stella it was bondage in the courts
of purgatory  Hortensia ever between her and
her father, and that father gently but inexorably
thrusting her nearer and nearer to Yal ; to Yal
it was reinforcement ; to Ethel White it was
extension of domain and one more courtier in
her train.

As for Mr. Branscombe, his desire that his
daughter should marry the possessor of Greys
Manor was unquestionably the central
point of the whole position, but one which he
thought no one discerned. When he walked

and talked apart with Yal it was to himself as if
he offered to the world a beautiful picture,
whereof the motif was that of a teacher instructing
an alumnus, one of the illuminati inspiring
an acolyte. Mentor with Telemachus. He did
not think that Ethel White said to herself: " He
is trying to catch the young heir for his
daughter;" that Augusta Latrobe said to Sandro :
** I want Stella to marry Yal Cowley, but really
that old creature's manoeuvres are too indelicately
open ; " and that Eandolph Mackenzie, as
clear sighted as the rest, had almost a quarrel
with Hortensia because he said he wished Mr.
Branscombe would not make so much of Yal
Cowley, and she answered loftily that Mr. Branscombe
was the best judge of his own conduct,
and that if he thought Mr. Cowley a fit companion
for himself and Stella, he was quite right
to make much of him  as he was right in everything
that he did. All this was hidden from
Finery Fred to whom Yal was the occasion for
both present display and past demonstration 
his pupil now but himself rejuvenated. All the
same it was an open secret that he wished this
younger transcript of himself to marry Stella ;
and that he was doing what he could to help on
the affair, and force his reluctant daughter to
yield to fate and his will.

Surrounded by friends though she was, Stella
felt that she was like a hunted creature standing
at bay  a creature, save for the faithful advocacy
of Eandolph Mackenzie, absolutely alone and
undefended. She could not rely even on Augusta,
for Augusta was on Yal's side and
always advocated what she called " escape " by
means of him. Hortensia had lately made
herself the handsome young fellow's ardent
encomiast; and Ethel White followed in the
same strain. So that, hemmed in on all sides
she was, the line of careful walking wa
fearfully narrowed for the poor child, and she
scarcely knew how to escape the pitfalls which
abounded.

One day they were all on the sands, as usuaL
Stella and Hortensia were standing close to Mr.
Branscombe ; Ethel was sitting on her campstool
under the shade of the big white umbrella
which Finery Fred held over her with his best
air of devotion and chivalry ; Valentine Cowley
and Randolph Mackenzie were on the outer
margin of the group  a little to the back of
Ethel  both looking at Stella ; Stella was looking
at the sea ; Hortensia's eves were raised to Mr.
Branscombe, whose chivalrous devotion to this-painted
woman from India seemed to her somewhat
strange and in some sort a desecration '

Q

Sancho Kemp and Augusta were at the back of
all, looking at the sea, the sky, the little boy
digging a hole that was to go to the middle of
the earth, and at each other. By degrees they
edged away from the rest, and were soon out
of hearing and then out of sight, as they
rounded the spur of the cliff  and the barrier of
the Lover's Leap rose behind them.

Soon after this, Mr. Branscombe, at her command
offering' his ri'ht arm to Ethel, and
having on his left Hortensia, led the march of
his little cohort across the firm, clean sands.
Stella took her place next to Hortensia, and
heroically conquered her inclination to dispossess
her as an intruder who had taken what
did not belong to her  a cuckoo who was
shouldering out the lawful inhabitant of the
nest. She would have found it too late had
she tried. The mischief had been done. Hortensia
had been wiser than Stella ; and flattery
had proved more potent than love. Soon the
stretch of dry, firm, unmarked sands narrowed
to a mere slip ; and the ribbed and furrowed
tract, with the wet lying in the hollows,
necessitated the falling back of some among
them. They could not walk dryshod in a line
of six. Hortensia was on Mr. Branscombe's
left arm, Ethel White was on his right, as has

been said ; Stella and the two young* men were
thus walking free. Was not the fitness of
things evident ?

My dear child ! " said Mr. Branscombe,
with his best-bred air of parental tenderness ;
' I pray you not to walk through that wet !
Mr. Cowley, let me delegate to you my duty of
care and protection. Will you kindly look after
my child ? "

I do not want any one to look after me,
papa," said Stella hastily.

Dear Stella, why do you not do as your
father wishes without always answering back
and opposing ? " said Hortensia in a low, grave,
reproving voice, but distinct enough for Mr.
Branscombe to hear.

As his commentary he pressed her hand
against his side, and stooping his handsome
head, whispered in her ear :

Little saint ! child angel ! soul of seraphic
purity ! mind of honey sweetness ! "

Stella heard the whisper, as perhaps it was
intended that she should. If so, it had the
effect desired, for she fell back at once, pale
as death, her eyes dark with tears which yet
must perforce remain unshed. Impulsively she
held out her hand to Randolph Mackenzie and
turned her shoulder to Yal Cowley. Poor Randolph

! All things considered it was rather
hard on him to make him merely the shield
and buckler against another  to smile on him
by way of emphasizing a frown !

Soon after this Ethel said again that she was
tired. Her indolent Indian habits clung to her,
and she found walking for her health, as she
had been ordered to do, one of the most disagreeable
facts of her life. Hence she was
always sitting down under this undeniable
pretext of being tired; which thus made the
folding-seat and the folding-footstool, the shawl,
the big umbrella, and the bearers of these same,
necessary parts of her equipage. To-day it
was Eandolph who carried the greater part of
her things, while Mr. Branscombe was her
knight in courtly attendance. Yal Cowley,
strange to say, was left free and entrusted with
no particular function ; and Stella, whose place
with her father was taken by Hortensia and
whose sisterhood with Ethel had become a little
slack, was as desoeuvree as the Admirable
Crichton. Mr. Branscombe, standing in an
elegant attitude near Mrs. White, with a fine
mingling of protection and deference in his
pose, like a lord-ins waiting doing his devoir to
the queen, gave the big white umbrella, which
was heavy, to Randolph Mackenzie to hold.

while he himself, still having Hortensia on his
arm, held over her the light parasol which cost
him no effort. Then turning to his daughter
with a smile which he passed on with a peculiar
look to Valentine Cowley, he said in dulcet
tones of very positive command :

I wish you two young people would take a
brisk walk together. You have come here for
your health, my dear Stella. This is not doing
justice to your very admirable physician, nor to
yourself, nor to me. Mr. Cowley, may I again
delegate my duties ? Will you kindly escort
my daughter in a swift and health-giving walk
across the sands ? "

'' With pleasure," said Yal eagerly.

No, papa," said Stella reluctantly.

Oh, Stella, don't object so much ! " again
remonstrated Hortensia in her low, reproving
and clearly-heard tones.

"I do not want to walk," said Stella not
heeding Hortensia  standing this time fairly at
bay.

"It is my wish, my dear child," said Mr.
Branscombc with a singular smile. "Mr. Cowley
will accompany you."

Shall I go too. Miss Stella ? " asked Randolph,
oblivious of the duty to which he had
been told off, and only anxious to help his dear

Star whose pained and harassed look cut him
to the heart.

Yes," said Stella, as impulsively as she had
offered him her hand ; "do you come too, Randolph
! "

My dear, good, obtuse, young friend," said
Mr. Branscombe with playful impertinence ;
and this fair lady's umbrella ? Xo ; stay
where you are, Mr. Randolph ; and do you, my
dear Mr. Cowley, go as my child's guardian
against the scaly monsters of the deep. And
now, my dear Stella, no more opposition, I beg.
Take the walk prescribed for you by circumstances
and common sense  the walk which is-the
raison d'etre of your being here at all."

Come, Miss Branscombe ;  it will do yon
good," said Yal.

And Stella, feeling herself indeed surrounded
by the tide, but not with Yal Cowley this time
as her saviour, suddenly withdrew her opposition
and yielded to the pressure put on her.
She said nothing; she simply stiffened her
slender neck, as her manner was when she felt
obstinate and was displeased, and set off without
a word, to meet what she knew would be
one of the most important crises of her life.
She gave one glance of mingled entreaty and
despair to Randolph as she turned away ; but if

she could not help herself neither could he.
The Philistines were upon her and she must go
through her trial to the end.

Yal had had a long talk that morning with
Mr. Branscomhe which had finally settled the
preliminaries of things. He was authorized hy
the father to propose to the daughter ; and he
was assured that she would consent  if not now
then hereafter. It went against him to feel
that perhaps by this Mr. Branscomhe meant a
little parental coercion ; but he was in for it
now and tired of indecision.

Scarcely knowing whether he most loved the
girl he wanted to win, or most hated her
because she would not be won  wanting to see
clearly the thing as it was, and to put an end
to doubt or to begin his happiness  supported
by Mr. Branscomhe  encouraged b} Augusta; 
helped by his young man's vanity and spurred
on by his jealousy of the past  he made Stella
that offer which had so long hung fire and
which it was Mr. Branscombe's intention she
should accept.

And when he had made it, Stella said " No,"
out there in the sunlight, clearly, loudly,
unmistakably. The birds heard it as they flew
overhead, the wind carried it to the sea, and
the sea echoed it back to the land. It was to

Yal as if all nature knew and scoffed at this
discomfiture ; as if a brazen wall had suddenly
built itself up between him and her  between
him and the sun  between him and all the
happiness and honour of life.

"No," she said firmly, under pressure and
brought to bay as she was. "I do not love
you, Mr. Cowley, and I never could love you ;
and I will never marry you, never ! never ! "

Oh," said Yal cruelly ; " I see you still love
that fellow, Cyril, who flirted with Mrs. White
till he compromised his own name and hers.
Miss Branscombe ! I should have thought you
had had more pride than this ! "

Stella turned on him as an Amazon might
have turned on a curled and scented Corinthian.
How her eyes flashed and the roseleaf of her
cheeks deepened to flaming crimson  to bloodred
fire !

"Do not you dare to speak of Mr. Ponsonby
like that ! " she cried with more passion than he
thought she possessed. "It is no affair of
yours whether I still love him or not, or what
he may have done in India. I am his friend
now as I always was ; and neither you nor
any one else shall speak against him in my
presence. That is not the way to make me
your friend, Mr. Cowley."

To which said Yal, with less chivalronsness
than pride and temper, with less manly dignity
than boyish pique :

I do not care for the friendship of a girl
who can still love a man who no longer loves
her."

So there went the whole house of cards ;  and
Stella's soul was still to be made after Mr.
Valentine Cowley's plan ; while her hand was
yet to be won in that matrimonial market where
her father had so openly placed her.

That evening Ethel White wrote a long
letter to Cyril Ponsonby. She was one of
those women who spend half their lives in
writing long letters to young men. It was her
sole occupation after she had read the gossip
columns in the weekly papers and the police
reports in the daily journals. The end of the
letter ran thus :

Your old flame, Stella Branscombe, and her
father are here ; so are a certain Mr. Yalentine
Cowley who is her adorer, and Miss Hortensia
Lyon who is his  I mean Mr. Branscombe's.
I don't know how far things have gone with
these last, but they have certainly gone some
distance on that way of matrimony which someone
once called the grave of love. Old Branscombe
makes a perfect fool of the little girl,

and she returns the compliment by making a
perfect fool of him ; Mr. Cowley is very
assiduous in his attentions to Miss Stella, but
she fights shy of him on every occasion. It is
evidently a case of the father's will and the
girl's dislike. She is a sweet dear creature,
and I love her like my sister ; and I confess I
joity her. I wish that she would marry Mr.
Cowley, or a certain big blundering but very
good-hearted Mr. Randolph Mackenzie, who
worships her down to the ground. She has
trouble before her else. Her father is an old
horror ; and as for her future stepmother I
should like to see her well shaken. Now write
me a lone: letter of station news in return for
my budget, and tell me how you and that little
Betty Jones are going on. I think Miss Betty
touched you ? Remember me always as your
sincere friend and sympathizing confidante,

"Ethel White."

I wonder if I have done that little toad a
good turn by telling Cyril Ponsonby all this ? "
said Ethel to herself when she had finished her
letter. " She is a proud, cross, cold little
wretch, but I should like to see her out of her
scrape if only to spite that awful old father of
hers. I wonder if Cyril likes her still ? If he

does lie ought to come home at once and take
Miss Stella to himself like that flying man who
rescued the girl on the rock from the monster.
Heigh ho ! He would make a very nice lover
at least I should think so ! " she added, with
an odd little sigh.

CHAPTER XI.

AT THE REBOUND.

Good-bye, Mr. Branscombe ! I am off by the
evening train."

Yalentine tried to speak with the masterly
ease of indifference. He succeeded only in
speaking with the ill-concealed wrath of
offended love, the savage nonchalance of
wounded pride and the brusqueness of a
decidedly unheroic fit of ill-temper. What a
fool he had been ! he thought bitterly. What
made him tempt Providence as he had done,
and put himself in the humiliating position of a
rejected lover, when he ought to have seen and
known beforehand that Stella would not marry
him ? She had been frank enough in her
declared aversion for him. He could not blame
her for coquetry, nor say that she had given a
fellow false hopes. Why then, had he not

VOL. III.

accepted her lead rather than her father's false
flourish of support and Augusta Latrobe's perfectly
useless advocacy ? It had been his own
fault all through ; but that did not make it the
better to bear. On the contrary, it made it the
worse. For he could not shelter himself behind
that friendly plea of bad calculators and worse
actors, and say with a flourish, accusing Providence
: " Just my luck ! " For just my luck
had been his own wilful conduct, his vanity and
his folly ; and he knew it. So now when he
stood at the postern gate which led from the
fool's paradise in which he had been blindly
walking into the stern reality of facts as they
were, he had no help for it but to pass through,
railing at fools' paradises in general as he
stumbled over the bad places of the real thing.
"Wherefore he gathered up his forces and said
Good-bye " to Mr. Branscombe with affected
unconcern  his departure confessing his discomfiture.


A farewell ?  going by this evening's
train ? Indeed ! Your leaving us in the midst
of our pleasant villeggiatura is as sudden as it
is grievous," said Finery Fred gravely.

He looked from Valentine  flushed, affectedly
debonair, secretly angry, outwardly polite,
inwardly chafing that he could not show the

insolence and temper which he felt  to Stella
who, now that she had finally taken her stand
and shaken off her erotic incubus, was just the
least bit in the world afraid of that dear papa of
hers ; yet afraid only on the surface of things 
resolute enough at the core !

I must go  I  I " stammered Val, who

had forgotten to make up an excuse and who
was not good at sudden reasons delivered pointblank
out of the vague.

You have received letters of business ?  a
telegram from the Master ?  your father is
dangerously ill ? " said Mr. Branscombe with a
disagreeable smile. " I see, Mr. Cowley !  the
old chapelet of excuses to mask an inclination
which we do not wish to confess."

"No inclination, sir, necessity," said Valentine.


Stella, my child, will you not ask Mr.
Cowley to remain yet a little while longer as
our honoured guest?" said Mr. Branscombe
with a sweet manner and a severe face.

By the way, Valentine Cowley paid his own
hotel bills ; but it sounded well to call him their
guest ; and Mr. Branscombe was a man whose
poetic fancy was at all times grandly superior
to the fettering contraction of literalness.

Mr. Cowley knows best what he ought todo,"

said Stella with a moral hardihood which
surprised herself, personally quaking, as she
was, with fear of her father's certain displeasure
when she should he alone with him and he
should have learned all.

"Thanks for the rebuke, my child," Mr.
Transcribe answered with another of his most
silky and therefore most disagreeable smiles ;
a rebuke somewhat sharply administered, but
supremely just. Precious balms from the hand
of a child, breaking a father's head but purifying
his heart and directing his conduct. Thank
you, my love ! "

"I did not mean that, papa," said Stella
earnestly.

No ? " He smiled again ; this time with
almost pathetic magnanimity. " Then you did
what you would not. By accident you made
yourself the guiding angel to your father  the
lost wayfarer. By accident or design I. equally
thank you, my daughter."

At all events I must go," said Yal, whose
ill-humour did not reach the length of liking to
hear Stella virtually bullied while apparently
commended, and who at this moment hated old
Finery Fred almost past bearing.

I am sorry," said Mr. Branscombe with
dignity.

"Why don't you ask him to stay, Stella,
when your father tells you ? " said Hortensia in
that low voice of hers, which sounded so dulcet,
so modest and which was so audible. 

Because my daughter has not the sweet
submission of her little friend," said Mr. Branscombe,
answering the girl. " Because she
thinks her judgment superior to her father's,
and prefers the green fruit of unripeness to the
golden grain of experience  that is why, my
dear Miss Hortensia Lyon  and I wish it were
otherwise."

I do not wish Miss Branscombe to ask me
to stay, if it is against her real wish," said Yal,
gallantly effacing his disappointment.

A dutiful child should have but one wish,
and that her father's," said Finery Fred with
unction.

Sometimes that is impossible," said Stella.

As now ? " her father asked with meaning.

Yal turned a flushed face and a pair of
darkened eyes towards the girl ; Mr. Branscombe
put on his pince-nez and looked at her
seriously ; Hortensia plucked at her sleeve and
in her audible way again whispered :

Do as your father wishes, Stella. It is too
dreadful to see how disobedient you are ! "

Augusta, who as yet had not taken any part

in this discussion, whereof the mystery was sa
unconcealed and the secret so open  who had
sat a little apart, watching the whole play but
aside from it all  now forced Stella to look at
her by the magnetic attraction of her eyes, the
power of her will, the electric vitality of her
thought.

'' Yield !  accept Yalentine Cowley as your
husband, else worse will befall you," said
Augusta's eyes. " You are surrounded by
the tide ; let him carry you from danger to
safety."

It was to Stella as if she heard these words 
as if they were said as distinctly by Augusta's
face as they would have been by her voice. For
the moment she felt as if she were carried away
in the swirl of a torrent. Would she do well to
obey her beloved father's will and follow her
dear friend's wise advice ?  or was it better to
stand by her barren fidelity to the past and let
the present go by the board ? Would it be well
to escape from home pain and personal humiliation
by this  to her way of thinking  dishonourable
and unblessed marriage with Valentine
Cowley ?  or was it better that she should
bear in patience and in constancy the domestic
cross of her father's displeasure  retaining
as her inalienable treasure the right to love

without sin to the end of her days the only man
whom she ever could love ?

This moral indecision lasted but for an
instant. Then came back the clear, swift,
strong perception of her highest duty, her
noblest self-respect.

No," she said firmly, but with a soft voice
and eyes more sad than defiant ; still for all
that sadness it was firmness in which vibrated
not the faintest echo of weak self-surrender.
I cannot and will not ask Mr. Cowley to
stay."

All was now told, all known, all confessed.
Her way of escape was shut off by her own
hand and henceforth she must bear the pain
which she would not renounce when she could.
She had chosen her part ; and only her own
conscience  and Randolph Mackenzie  said
that she had done well and that it would have
been base had she done otherwise.

So poor, rejected, disappointed Yal left by the
evening mail, as he said ; and finally and forever
that prettily-built castle in Spain vanished
into smoke, leaving a very unpleasant residuum
of ashes behind.

You have disappointed me ; you have
angered me ; you have grievously and wantonly
offended me. I consider myself humiliated and

insulted ; and I shall find forgiveness a difficult
virtue to exercise on behalf of a perverse and
ungrateful child, such as you have proved yourself
to be ! "

Mr. Branscombe opened his conversation with
Stella later in the evening, after Yalentine had
left and when Augusta and Hortensia had gone
to bed, with this exordium majestically delivered
and very sincerely felt.

Papa, what would you have had me do ? "
cried Stella, her courage drowned in despair at
this litany of reproaches from her father, once
so blindly worshipped and still so fondly loved,
if not so wholly believed in as before.

I would have had you wise, modest and
obedient," he answered, fixing his eyes on her
with a frown. " I would have had you accept
Mr. Yalentine Cowley's exceedingly desirable
proposals, and marry the man of your father's
choice."

Without loving him, papa ? "

Without publishing sentiment, without
selfish consideration, without maidenly proclivities,
and without the rootless fancy of your
own silly imagination," he answered angrily.
Had you been the Stella of old days, the
Stella of my hope, you would have trusted your
happiness, like your mind, your will, your

heart, your head, your love, to me ; you would
have let me regulate your life as the best
architect of your fortune, and you would have
found what I had done, well. Who so good
a guide for his child as a loving father, with
experience and a mind to comprehend life all
round ? I know you ; and I know that exceedingly
excellent young man. It was the
marriage of all others most suitable, most desirable.
I planned and arranged for it ; and
you have wilfully disappointed and, I may say,
deceived me."

No, papa, I never deceived you ! " interpolated
Stella.

You are no longer my Stella," continued
Mr. Branscombe, not heeding her. " You are
to me as a changeling ; and henceforth you
must live as an exile from those deepest recesses
of my heart where hitherto you have had your
home ! "

Papa, do not say that ! " cried Stella, covering
her face.

*you have elected, and you must take the
consequences," he answered coldly.

But why do you want me to marry at all ?
Why do you want it ? " then said the girl,
suddenly looking up with a curiously scared
expression. What did she think ? What suspect

? What foresee ? " Only a short time
ago you would not hear of it, and now  why
do you want to force me ? I love Cyril ,"
she went on to say in a strange, reckless
way ; " and I do not care in the least for
Mr. Cowley. Yet you made me break with the
one and now you want me to take the other.
I cannot understand it ; nor why you should be
so angry with me because I have not accepted
a man I do not care for, when "  she stopped
herself in time. It was not necessary to
repeat her confession of faith within so short
a time.

I loved you too well to give you to that
very ordinary young boor, Mr. Cyril Ponsonby,"
cried Mr. Branscombe ; " and it was because I
loved you that I wished you to marry Mr.
Cowley  in every way your equal and fit
match. Is that such a difficult problem to you
Stella?"

But I do not want to marry any one," said
Stella.

And I wish that you should marry someone
 and soon," said her father sternly.

She looked at him with her large eyes, dark
and frightened.

Papa," she said slowly ; " do you want to
get rid of me ? "

I wish you to marry, and to marry wells
he repeated evasively.

She burst into a passion of tears.

Oh, this is too much ! " she cried in her
bitter anguish of despair. " You took me from
Cyril to be your comfort and companion, and
now you want me to leave you ! You have
broken my heart twice over, papa  I who have
only loved you better than myself  better, too,
than Cyril."

Cyril ! Cyril ! " said Mr. Branscombe, now
thoroughly roused and forgetting even to pose.
Hear me, Stella. I command you never
to repeat that name in my presence again.
You degraded yourself by your love for that
young man in the beginning ; you degrade
yourself doubly by what I suppose you would
call your constancy now. Let this end. You
have chosen, and I will say dared, to reject the
choice which I had made for you. So be it.
You will have to learn the mistake that you
have so wilfully made. But I will not have a
daughter of mine openly profess her love fora
man who has definitely cast her off as this
Ponsonby has cast off you. Foolish, obstinate,
undutiful you may be and are ; but immodest,
by heavens, no !  this is more than I can bear !
Do you think that precious little virginal angel

Hortensia Lyon, would act as you act ? Take
counsel by her sweet example, and let your
shame lead you to the higher levels of repentance
tint the refined paths of maiden modesty."

And with this Mr. Branscombe took up his
chamber candlestick and went off to his own
room  one of the rare times in his life when
he was absolutely in earnest, if by no means
beautiful or poetic.

Meanwhile, Stella sat in the deserted sitting-room,
stunned and terrified ; feeling as if the
very earth had given way and that the solid
things of life had become floating and insecure ;
as if all happiness had died for ever, and that
her father was sitting on the tomb where her
still living Love lay buried. And the only
person at the back of her consciousness, of
whose approval she was sure, was her good
friend Randolph  Brother Randolph  brother
now more than ever !

Yalentine, humiliated and sore, too pure
and honest a gentleman to seek in dissipation
relief from pain yet unable to live among the
broken fragments of his shattered hopes and
mutilated pride, started off to Highwood and
the Pennefathers. There at least he would
have " fun " and such distraction as this included.
There he could not be poetical nor

moody nor aught but "jolly" and " all there "
as they said. And Grip was a good girl and
thoroughly healthy-minded. And then came
the question which he did not see was prompted
by his wounded pride : " "Was it all sincere ?
Did I not fancy myself more in love than I
really was ? Was Stella Branscombe so Supreme
as I thought her? Did I not exaggerate my
own feelings, spurred on by her coldness rather
than by any living passion in myself ? Was it
not rather the desire to distance a rival memory
than spontaneous love on my own part ?  and
am I not on the whole well out of it ? "

He asked himself these questions honestly and
clearly ; and he answered them as honestly  at
least so he thought. " Yes ; he was well out of it."
But if he were, he had a singularly harassed look
for a man just escaped from a danger ; and anyone
would have said that, instead of escape, he
had had a fall, and a heavy one. And indeed
all the Sherrardine people did say so, each in
his own manner, as they received him with
an effusiveness of welcome which made him
feel like the Prodigal Son restored to his own
and regaled with the fattest of the fattest calves
in the stalls. They fairly raved at him for his
queer looks ; and suggested all kinds of absurd
explanations  all save Gip, and she by a rare

accession of tact, an almost intuitive perception
of thin ice, strangely foreign to her general
nature, said nothing. But perhaps she noted
more than the others ; certainly she guessed
nearer the truth.

Once only did she touch the secret sore, and
then with the lightest, kindest, deftest fingers
in the world. As she and Yal were strolling
over the lawn one evening after dinner, she
turned her face up to his and said in a voice
softer than hers in general, and one that
slightly trembled in spite of herself :

Yal, you have come here out of tune, old
man ; but, remember, you have come among
chaps who really love you without humbug or
palaver. So you just paddle your own canoe
in your own way, till you are all square again.
No one shall bother you ; and I'll take care that
no one shall chaff you ; and I will never ask
what it is."

The genuine kindness, the substantial delicacy
of this queer, rough speech, overcame Yal.

Come with me into the shrubbery, out of
sight of the windows, Gip," he said, his voice
too slightly trembling, and his manner a
strange mixture of headlong excitement and
almost ferocious melancholy. " Whatever is
amiss with me you can cure  and you only."

Whereupon they plunged into the dark depths
of the shrubbery, and there words were said
which left Gip radiant as a sunbeam and Yal
like a thundercloud traversed by unwholesome
lightning. They were words spoken once for
all ; and words which would be stuck to. And
if the mother at home, in that stately place in
Warwickshire, did not like them, so much the
worse for her. But that would not affect the
position of her future daughter-in-law. The
rejected heart had been caught at the rebound,
and George Pennefather held the prize.

*' Something has gone wrong," she said to
her sister when she told her the news at night ;
but, Patrick, I will never, never, never ask
what it is ! I am engaged to him now and I
am far too jolly to whine about old scores."

Right you are, George," said Pip between
laughing and crying, kissing and sobbing ;
but oh, mercy me ! whatever shall I do without
you! Oh, George, I shall go dead when you
have gone ! Yal will have to marry me, too ! "

You'll get a Yal of your own, Patrick, and
then you'll not mind," said Gip soothingly.

But the pretence was too patent ; and the two
Doves sobbed and kissed each other alternately
Gip's long-desired engagement to that dear
old chap, that nice old man, Yal Cowley, having,
strange to say, its drawbacks !

CHAPTER XII.

love's shadow  HATE.

The cure of the boy was now complete and
Augusta had to return home. Not many letters
had passed between her and her mother ; and
those which had been written were all on the
daughter's side. The terrible old woman was
a bad scribe at the best ; and of late her bodily
activities in every direction had noticeably decreased,
so that she laid aside all exertion which
she was not absolutely obliged to undergo.
Certainly she laid aside that quite unnecessary
work of supererogation  a correspondence with
her daughter ; and only grunted in her peculiar
manner, with less pleasure than doubt and
critical distaste, when she received one of
Augusta's letters, largely written, fluent in
word, flowing in form, and telling substantially
nothing ;  not even telling the important fact

that Sandro Kemp and his cousin Ethel White
were in the same hotel as themselves ; that they
all went out together to that memorable Castle,
and on to the crimson sunset-lighted sands ;
and that words had been spoken there which
could never be recalled, and by which the
whole history of life had been changed for
both mother and daughter.

All this had to wait until affairs were somewhat
arranged ; when augusta would say it
face to face and take the consequences bravely.
She knew what those consequences would be
and she did not see the wisdom of anticipation
and prematurity.

Her heart light, her winsome face beautified
by her inner joy, her pleasant laugh clear as
silver bells, Augusta returned to the home
which had been essentially her prison, as one
fortified by a charm from all evil present and to
come. The old woman, keen as a hawk to see
all changes in the world around her, caught
almost at a glance the new spirit which sat like
a crown on her daughter's head.

'what is it?" she asked herself. "What
has she done, or what is she going to do ? She
has done something ; and I must find out what
it is."

But she said nothing on that first evening.

A'OL. III. 1'

She thought she would wait for an
and, when that was made, then she would enter
and put all to the rout. That unknown
Something which ailed her had been rather
troublesome of late ; and when that was
troublesome her temper generally followed suit,
as those who formed her household knew to
their cost. Meanwhile she sat in her easy-chair,
with her heavy old eyebrows lowered
over her small keen eyes, watching her
daughter's brightened slice with its radiant
crown of secret joy as her cat might have
watched a bird on the lawn, waiting for the
moment when it should come near enough for
that fatal spring to be made.

The next day passed as this first evening had
done. Augusta said little about what had
happened at St. Ann's and nothing at all about
Sandro Kemp. For she, like her mother, was
waiting on opportunity and the fit moment
and would not open the bag before the run for
the creature within was open and assured.
But the silence of suspicion on the one side and
of reserve on the other, made itself felt between
them as the dead stillness of the coming storm
presages the furious outbreak at hand.

It was Sunday. All Highwood had assembled
as usual in the church-porch after service,

where the returned travellers were greeted with
as much animation of welcome as if they had
been to the North Pole and had come back
laden with seal skins and free of frostbites.
Every one was, what the slang* of the day
calls, '* in good form," and the elixir of life ran
bright and clear for each and all. The Doves
were especially beaming and resplendent ;
their saucy faces were all over dimples ; their
bold black roving eyes shone like highly
polished spheres of ebony set in ivory; and
Grip, re-transformed from her late sharp and
spiny larva to something even beyond her
old buoyant, breezy, butterfly self, was what
she would have called a jolly good fellow to
all the world and in splendid case all round.
To Stella Branscombe, to whom she had been so
cruel and spiteful in the dark days gone by,
now that she knew her jealousy to be a mere
ghost of which she held the substance, she was
like the most affectionate sister. It seemed as
if she tried to make up for her ill-humour and
roughness by a corresponding excess of sweetness
and fellowship.

Dear Stella ! how prime you look ! " she
said, in her clear, ringing tones, squeezing the
girl's hand till she nearly made her cry out with
pain. '' How awfully jolly to have you back

again and to see your dear little face look a mite
more round and rosy than it did ! You're not
quite up to your old self yet, but you are not
such a peaky lank as you were by miles. It
was so awfully nice to see you in your old place
again 1  I declare I could not say my prayers
as I ought for looking at you ! "

And I am glad to see you look so well,
George," answered Stella, smiling in her sweet
way ; a little surprised at the exuberance of
this greeting, but glad that the cloud had
passed and that Greorgie Pennefather had
"come out of the sulks," as George herself
would have called it.

Oh ! Patrick and me, we are always tight
as trivets ! " said that slangy, fast, objectionable
young person, laughing and looking at her
sister significantly ; and Pip, taking up the cue,
laughed and gave back the significant look with
interest, shouting as her reply :

George is tighter than any trivet, ain't you,
George ? "

Rather," said the twin Dove, a wild outburst
of irrepressible hilarity tumbling from her
lips like a cascade of jocund waters.

And how was old SandroKemp, Augusta?"
asked Gip when she had done with Stella.
Yal told us what a jolly little party you made.

Yal came here, you know, a little while after he
left St. Ann's, and gave ns all the news.
Fancy old Sandro and that Mrs. White with
you ! What larks !  jam for some one I should
say, Augusta, should not you ? '' with impudent
merriment  " poking fun *' at the end of a
quarter-staff.

Colonel Moneypenny, who had been speaking
in a low voice and with manifest gallantry to
the fair widow, caught the hated name as a
man catches the echo of a challenge. He
stiffened himself as if on parade and fixed his
fiery eyes on Augusta's, asking her in plain
language  if looks can be called plain language
" What did it mean ? " and had it been the
"jam " of the Pennefathers' vernacular to have
had Sandro Kemp's society at St. Ann's ?

He looked in vain. That waxen mask of
mindless amiability for which Augusta Latrobe
was famous, came over her face like a shadow,
hiding the truth and her soul beneath the
vacant sweetness which was her favourite
weapon of defence.

"* It was very pleasant to have them there,"
she answered. ''Mr. Kemp is always good-natured,
and Mrs. White"  " That was Cyril
Ponsonby's chum," shouted Grip parenthetically
" Mrs. White is a very remarkable kind of

woman," continued Augusta, not noticing the
parenthesis.

What way ? " asked Gip, elliptical when she
was not vulgar, and ungrammatical always.

She is a thorough Anglo-indians'' said
Augusta, as if this were an explanation.

And flirts like fun all round," cried Grip.

Augusta laughed that vacant, mindless little
laugh of hers which meant nothing.

Why, she tried it on Yal, who hated hers
and on old Kemp as well ! " said Gip. " But
Yal said that didn't run ! Old Kemp knew
better than that ; and so did some one else,
didn't they, Augusta ? "

Mr. Kemp did not flirt with her, so far as
I could see," answered Augusta, with that kind
of crass literalness which makes an effectual
barrier against further conversation ; at least
with most people. It did nothing with George
Pennefather.

"But if he did not with her, he did with
some one else," she said in a loud whisper ;
and from what Yal said we may be looking
out for orange-blossoms in good earnest this
time. Oh, you sly-boots 1 oh, my ! Augusta 1
Those spoons, then, were true , and you looking
all the time as if butter would not melt in
your mouth ! "

Augusta laughed again. It might be in
deprecation or in acceptance of the charge, who
can tell ? Not even Colonel Moneypenny
watching her so closely, nor Dr. Quigley, who
was watching both.

I was not aware that Mr. Kemp was one of
your party," the Colonel then said slowly, his
face livid, his deep-set eyes burning like two
coals blazing from among the ashes.

Xo ? " answered Augusta, her eyes raised
to the level of his cravat, not beyond. " He
came there with his cousin a week after we
went."

And stayed there all the time ? "

Yes ; we left them still there," she answered
with the prettiest air of girlish frankness and
most admirably-acted indifference.

When is it to be, Augusta ? " asked Gip.

When is what to be, George ? " answered
the widow.

Orange-blossoms and old Kemp," laughed
that saucy minx.

Ah, when ? " said Augusta. " I will tell
you. when you wear your orange-blossoms for
Tal Cowley ! " she added, drawing her bow at
a venture  Stella with her father and the rest
of the Highwoodites being a little in advance
and quite out of hearing.

' I'll take you at your word ! " shouted Gip,
as she and Pip, laughing like two mad creatures,
rushed off down the lane which led from the
high road to Sherrardine.

'' She had you there, George," laughed Pip.
' I wonder if she knows ! "

Oh, it was only a fluke ! " said Gip. " But
who cares ? It'll have to he told soon ; I don't
scare how soon ; and I don't care who knows,
do you, Patrick ? "

'' No, I am too awfully jolly about it to want
to keep it dark," said Pip ; and her sister
answered frankly : " So am I."

Too much or too little had been said for the
Colonel's peace. It was or it was not ; and in
any case he must know which. Fortunately
he had not committed himself; fortunately for
his dignity he had not made that offer which
more than once had been so near and which
a merciful Providence had always prevented.
But he must know the truth. For his own
sake he must be put i]i possession of facts as
they stood ; and if Mrs. Latrobe would not
confide in him of her own free will, he must
force her hand as he had tried in vain to do
once before. But this time something told him
that he should be more successful.

*' You were much with your old friend ? "

he began, in his thin rasping voice, as the
main body of Highwoodites moved along the
highroad.

Yes, very much," said Augusta with her
most inane smile.

And he was as charming as ever ? " returned
the Colonel.

'' I did not see any difference in him," she said.

You were always his advocate, I remember,"
said the Colonel.

She smiled again.

Yes ? Was I ? " she replied ; adding :
' What a lovely day this is ! "

Where does Mr. Kemp live now ? And
what does he do since he came into his fortune?
that fortune of which, by all accounts, he
stood so much in need ? " asked the Colonel.

*'He has been away," she said; "and I do
not know what he does."

No ? You do not know what he does ?
That is strange;" he returned with satirical
emphasis.

Is it ? " she replied good-temperedly. " How
beautiful those distant hills are ! "

You are glad to return to your old home ? "
said the Colonel, suddenly changing front and
speaking with tenderness as little disguised as
his bitterness had been.

Home is always home' was the safe rejoinder.


And you will not leave us again ? "

My trunks are not packed," she returned
with a sweet little smile.

You will stay here for ever among us ? We
miss you so much when you go ! "

The Colonel spoke with still more pronounced
tenderness. All the same his eyes were bloodshot
and fiery and his smile was more acid than
sweet.

You are very good," she returned.

1 should like to keep you for ever," said the
Colonel. "" Do you remember how happy we
were that stormy day, when my house was your
shelter ? "

When was that ? " said Augusta, as if considering.
" Oh, yes ! I remember now. I
took shelter in sour house from the snowstorm.
What a dreadful day it was ! "

My house was then a real shelter ? " he
asked in a lowered voice.

Well, the snow did not come in through
the roof, so I suppose it was ! " said the widow
lightly. '' What a contrast between that day
and this ! "

That was the happier for me," said Colonel
Moneypenny.

You like winter best ? I like spring and
summer," she said.

"And the sea-side better than the inland
country ? " he asked.

Augusta put on her mask close and tight.

Sometimes' she said with the very sublimity
of vacuity. " It all depends''

On what ? "

On the weather," she answered, holding-out
her hand as they came up to The Laurels.
Good-bye, Colonel Moneypenny. Good-bye,
dear," to Stella, who was walking with Randolph
Mackenzie. " Take care of yourself, dear child,"
she added with tenderness.

Stella whispered : " Has he found out ? " and
by her whisper, which he could not hear, excited
the man's suspicion and jealousy afresh.

All that night (Colonel loneypenny la'
awake, half mad with this jealousy, this suspicion,
which burned like fire and ran like
poison in his veins. Baffled as he had been,
he was far from being convinced that Augusta's
apparent unconcern was real, and he determined
to have it out. Cost what it might, his self-respect
demanded that he should know the
truth. Wherefore, full of this determination,
he went to The Laurels the next day, as he
had done once before, prepared to dig the pit

into which the woman, for whom his love so
often took the form of love's shadow  hate 
should fall ; this time never to rise again.

The greetings were given and all the proper
formalities of preliminary courtesy were gone
through, even more punctiliously than usual.
It was the salute of the duellist, the hand-shake
of the prize-ring after the caps have been
thrown down to show that they are " there."

What kind of person is Mrs. White ? *' asked
the Colonel, turning to Augusta and speaking
suddenly.

In what way ? " replied the widow, the
-colour beginning to mount into her face very
slowly, very quietly, but unmistakably ; " in
beauty or character ? "

Both," he said.

Mrs. Morshead looked a little lost.

What Mrs. White ? " she asked.

Mr. Kemp's cousin," said Augusta, as
steadily as if she lead said Tony's new hat.
Then, to give the conversation a turn, if possible,
she added : '' She is the person about
whom and Cyril Ponsonby all that gossip was
made in the winter."

It was odd, was it not, that she should have
gone to St. inn's Without her husband, and
only escorted by a man like Mr. Kemp? Cousin
or not, that was a little queer, I think."

Colonel Moneypenny said this with Lis well-known
acid smile  that smile which, more than
all else, expressed the burning passion that he
did his best to conceal.

They have been brought up together, and
are like brother and sister ; and Captain White
is in India," said Augusta, neither faltering nor
quailing for all that her mother's eyes were
fixed on her with ominous surprise, with sharp
suspicion and with the very darkness of latent
wrath.

nevertheless it argues a large amount of
trust in Captain White'' said Colonel Money-penny,
still smiling in his sharp, acid way.
'' He could not have known that you would
have been there to act as a  what shall I
say ? I cannot say chaperon, but rather as a
counter-charm, a more powerful attraction."

He probably knew both his wife and his
cousin, when he sent Ethel home," replied
Augusta, tranquilly as to manner, but the telltale
flush had deepened now to burning crimson
on her face.

What does all this mean ? " asked Mrs
Morshead. She had been sitting in her chair,
stiff and upright as if she had been cased in
iron ; her eyebrows nearly meeting, and her
eyes almost concealed beneath their shaggy

fringe. " Was that sign-painter, Sandy Kemp,
at St. Ann's, Augusta ? "

Yes, mamma," answered her daughter.

'' And you spoke to him ? "

Yes."

"Were good friends with him?  as if nothing
had happened ? " asked the mother.

Colonel Moneypenny laughed in a forced,
affected, rasping kind of way.

Quite good friends and something more, if
report speaks true ! " he said with pretended
lightness. " Come now, confess, Mrs. Latrobe,
was it not so ? "

Eeally, Colonel Moneypenny, your question
is too enigmatical either to answer or understand,"
said Augusta, she also laughing with
affected lightness.

Don't be hypocritical, Augusta," said her
mother savagely. " Colonel Moneypenny is
quite easy to understand ; and you know he
is ; and answer that question directly : Were
you good friends with Sandy Kemp, and something
more ? "

The young widow looked at her mother, and
from her to her former lover now her bitterest
enemy. She was not defiant, not insolent, but
she was calm and strong as if prepared for all
encounters. She seemed to draw her graceful

figure somewhat together, as if she stiffened
her shoulders and strengthened her neck to
bear  and to bear triumphantly.

Yes," she said, in a low, clear voice ; " weare
good friends  friends and something more,
for life."

Colonel Moneypenny's livid face grew as pale
as the face of a dying man ; then the blood
came back into his thin, worn cheeks as if a hot
flood of fire poured through his veins.

' I thought so ! " he said in a suffocated voice.
'' I knew it months ago ! "

Then you knew what I did not," said
Augusta. " Our meeting at St. Ann's was by
chance."

You sit there, Augusta, and quietly tell me
that you love that impudent fellow ? " asked
Mrs. Morshead, with portentous stillness.

Yes, mamma, I do ; I am sorry that you do
not. You would if you would but let yourself
know him," answered her daughter.

You are going to marry him ? "

Yes, mamma."

Then before Colonel Money penny I say it,
you leave my house to-day  you and your boy.
No second wife shall darken my doors with
her shameless sin ; and I would rather see a
daughter of mine in her grave than the wife

of Sandy Kemp. You have chosen between
him and me, Augusta. Go to your precious-bargain,
and never let me see your face again !
You are no daughter of mine, and never have
been ! "

Mrs. Morshead ! " remonstrated the Colonel.

His revenge had a little over-stepped itself.
He had wanted to punish the woman, whom
once he had loved, but not to this extent. This
retribution was too savage, too severe, even for
such an offence as hers, and for such revenge
as his.

Do not plead forme, Colonel Moneypenny!'
flashed out Augusta, turning round on him
with one of her rare outbursts of passion.
'\ Leave my mother and me to settle our own
affairs by ourselves. Be satisfied with what
you have already done, and leave the rest alone-you
have revenged yourself enough."

He started to his feet.

I might have done more," he said cruelly :
and were I not a gentleman and a man of
honour, I would."

She shrugged her shoulders with a disdainful
gesture. That was her sole answer to his
assertion of gentlefolk and honour.

If you have more to say, say it out. Colonel
Moneypenny," said Mrs. Morshead, who, in this

little passage at arms, secretly sided with lier
daughter, liking her spirit.

Madam," said the Colonel grandly ; " I
respect your age too much to afflict you more
than you are afflicted already ; and to your
daughter I leave the stings of her own
conscience. Good-day, madam, and accept my
sympathy ; you need it."

With no word of adieu to Augusta, he turned
and left the room, leaving the mother and
daughter together and alone.

Now, Augusta," said Mrs. Morshead, as the
house-door shut against the young widow's foe ;
you know what is before you ; you don't sleep
another night in this house, neither you nor
your boy. So go and pack, and never dare
to cross this threshold again. If I want you I
will send for you ; but I think I would rather
die by the road-side than do that. No, don't
come near me, Augusta. I don't want towish
you good-bye. You have deceived me pall
through, and now I have done with you and
yours for ever. Go ; and don't come back to
take leave ; only [let me know that you have
gone and that I shall never see you again."

Mamma ! " said Augusta in a pleading
voice.

If you do not want me to lay my curse on

VOL. III. Q

you, Augusta  a mother's curse, a dying
woman's curse  leave me now and for ever ! "
almost shouted Mrs. Morshead, carried out of
herself by passion. 'leave me, you bad,
ungrateful, shameful girl ! Would that you
had never been born ! "

So Colonel Moneypenny's work had not been
quite fruitless to-day, and Love's shadow  Hate
  had fallen in good truth with power across
the young widow's path.

Presently Mrs. Morshead rang the drawing-room
bell twice, sharply.

Take me to bed, Martha," she said feebly,
when her maid appeared. " Take me to bed,
hussy. I have had my death-blow."

CHAPTER XIII.

AS HIGH AS HIS HEART.

Mr. Branscombe was sitting on the seat under
the cedar-tree on the lawn. He was turned
sideways to the house, and thus looked down
the grounds towards the Lodge and the road.
It was odd to see him sitting there alone. In
all her experience Stella did not* remember such
a strange departure from his normal habits.
She remembered to have seen him there with
her mother. She herself had sat with him
there; but that this solitude-hating father of
hers should have gone out and deliberately
placed himself under the cedar-tree alone was
strange indeed.

Laying aside her present work  she was
painting a bouquet of roses on a length of
white velvet to be hereafter made into a sachet,
scented with attar of roses, for his shirts  she

went out to him, timidly. She had become
timid in these latter days  timid because he
was relentless and cold, unforgiving and displeased.
Since Yal's rejection by her and
public betrothal to Greorgie Pennefather, the
relations between the once idolizing daughter
and the fondly receptive father had been
strained almost to the breaking point and
chilled almost to the freezing. Nevertheless,
in the foolish way of loving women, she tempted
Providence and defied probabilities, and went
out to her father sitting there alone on the seat
under the cedar-tree on the lawn  where she
used to sit so often with Cyril in the happy days
of long ago  though if she had stopped to reflect
she would have known that the chances were
she would be ,. snubbed for officiousness and
made to feel unwelcome.

You here alone, dear papa ! I do not like
to see you alone ! " she said with a caressing
accent and a coaxing smile, both sadly dashed
by fear.

Alone ! " he answered with mock mournfulness
; '' alone ! When am I ever aught but
alone ? "

To Stella it seemed that, what with Hortensia
Lyon as his constant chorus, Eandolph Mac-kenzie
as his obedient copyist, and the whole

visitable world of Highwood for ever flowing
through his gates, this dear father of hers was
not much alone when you came to think of it
and sum up the whole matter. But she was
wise enough not to say this. She only smiled
again with a timid, coaxing kind of air, as
she said :

May I stay with you now, papa ? "

He turned his grey eyes on her slowly.

As my companion ? " he replied. " But
companionship includes sympathy ; and the
only sympathy possible between a father and
daughter is in the unlimited obedience of the
latter to match the tender prevalence of the
former. By your act of disobedience you have
severed that bond of sympathy which once
existed and which should have always existed
between us. Will your presence, your bodily
presence, Stella, free me from the spiritual loneliness
which oppresses me ? "

Are you never going to forgive me, papa ? "
pleaded the girl, tears in her eyes.

My dear Stella," he answered ; " all actions
bear their logical consequences. It is not a
question of voluntary forgiveness, or of intentionally
nursed wrath to keep it warm on my
part. You have done a certain action and the
.consequences are so-and-so  as necessary, as

logical, as inevitable as if you had put your
hand into the fire and thus had burned your
flesh. Let me hear no more childish folly
about 'forgiveness.' It is fate, logic, circumstance,
necessity, that we should discuss; because
it is fate, logic, circumstance, necessity,
under which we live, not the nursery puerilities
a little child who breaks her doll without
knowledge or design  then asks to be forgiven
for what is not a fault. Your action was not
this, my dear Stella. Your action was deliberate
and foreseeing disobedience to my will. The
logical consequence therefore, is my paternal
displeasure and the solution of continuity in our
amicable relations."

'papa! I did not think you could have
been so cruel ! " cried Stella, the very passion
of despair in her voice.

Had you not better return to the house, my
dear Stella ? " said her father with frosty civility
and a deadly kind of courtesy. " Would you
not think it well to resume such occupations as
you might have been engaged in ? I wish to
reflect and meditate on a certain course of
action on my own part, and I desire to be left
in solitude  the solitude to which you yourself
have doomed me."

On which Stella, obedient and dejected, went

back into the drawing-room ; but sbe put away
that square of white velvet and her jar of roses,
and did no more to-day to that sachet, scented
with attar of roses, which she was painting for
her dear papa's fine-worked shirts. The spirit
had gone out of her hand, and she could as little
have drawn the forms or laid the colours as she
could have sympathized with her father's
thoughts, had she known them, as they buzzed
like bees beneath the cedar-tree and drew themselves
across his brow like long lines of light
traversing the darkness.

His sainted Matilda among the angels in
heaven and therefore of no use to him here on
earth  Stella, a disappointment and worse ; by
no means now the Star of his Home in whose
pure rays he was to find comfort, guidance and
companionship, but a very uncomfortable and
shabby little farthing rush light which served
only to make the surrounding darkness more
visible  Randolph Mackenzie, a mere bit of
human mechanism, a cleverly-constructed grub,
good for a certain amount of telegraphic ability
and good for nothing else  the fount of his
genius drying up for want of that praise and
devotion, that loving flattery, that stimulating
absorption which made its only real source 
Mr. Branscombe had but one shrine to which

to turn, one rock by which to anchor. Let the
world say what it would, he had resolved. He
had his own life and comfort and genius to
think of first of all things. Let the herd rave.
Is not a poet superior to such ravings? and
must not Egeria be his chief care ? So he had
resolved, as has been said; and the moment
for putting his mental determination into deeds
had come. Presently Stella saw her father get
Tip from his seat and walk across the lawn.
His gait and air had something in them more
than usual  a curious blending of the majesty
and courtesy, the grace and dignity for which
he was famous, with a haste, an eagerness not
often shown at all and never so strongly
marked. Then she saw him lift his broad-brimmed
hat and stand uncovered in the sunshine,
as he took Hortensia's hand and drew
it within his arm, bending his handsome head
sis if speaking in low tones while they walked
slowly back across the lawn to the seat beneath
the cedar-tree from which he had just risen 
that seat on which so much of the Branscombe
family life had been transacted.

She here again ! Why ! she was here this
morning!  and she did not tell me she was
coming again this afternoon. I cannot bear it
much longer ! I know I shall quarrel with her,"
said Stella to herself, colouring with vexation.

Then she turned pale and shivered with
something more serious than vexation, as her
eyes were fixed with a kind of fascination on
her father and her friend.

Child, do you know that you have grown ? "
said Mr. Branscombe in his most dulcet tones,
as he placed Hortensia on the seat and drew
her close to his side, so close that she leaned
against his arm  which was what she liked.

The little Puritan, feeling that something-was
in the air, was pale and trembling, not
knowing whether she ought to feel frightened
or elated, hopeful or despairing. What was
the meaning of this exordium ? Had she grown
beyond her place of supplementary daughter ?
of youthful Egeria ? of childlike chorus and
artistic shield-bearer ?  and was she therefore to
be banished ? Had Stella's jealousy been too
much for her, and was she to suffer from it in
the diminution, if not total cessation, of the
friendship which made her life's joy and washer
crowning honour, and without which it
seemed to her that her days would become a
dull dead blank scarce worth the trouble of
traversing ? What did this sublime and
lovingly-adored man mean by her having
grown ?  that she had outstretched her precious
privileges ?

Grown ? " she repeated, her voice a little
unsteady ; but she did her best to keep her
manner natural and as if unconcerned. " No ;
I have not grown, dear Mr. Branscombe ; not
for the last year. And at all events," she
added, her pale lips forcing themselves ta
smile ; "I hope that T have not grown beyond
your affection or my dear old place at Eose
Hill."

Yes ; you have grown within this last year ;
and you have grown beyond your place at Rose
Hill," said Finery Fred in a low soft voice 
how often used before in life !  stooping his
head to look into her face and smiling at her
fear, at her pretence of calmness, at her girlish
nervousness altogether. " You have grown
indeed  ' as high as my heart,' Hortensia !
Grown into my heart I may say ; grown so
closely one with myself that I cannot live without
you  that the days are dull when I have
not you as my rosy-fingered dawn, my noonday
sun, my evening star  grown round me as the
ivy round the oak, so that I cannot be separated
from you. And now I ask you to leave your
home and come to mine  to tell me that I may
count on your devotion and companionship to
the end of my days  to assure me, with that
refined and gracious little mouth whose delicate

curves are real enchantment to me, that you
will never leave me again. Will you, sweet
child?"

Again the girl was uncertain of his meaning.
Was this an offer of marriage or of adoption ?
She did not know ; and truth to say, for herself
she did not care which it might be. She only
knew that the dearest wish of her heart was to
be able to devote herself to Mr. Branscombe 
to live with him always and never leave him ;
but it was all one to her whether she were his
wife or his daughter so long as her position
was secure and her devotion had free outlet.

There is nothing on earth that would make
me so happy as to dedicate my life to your
service," she said, raising her eyes to his with
almost religious exaltation of worship shining
in them.

For though she was silly to excess, and in
some sense artificial, she was terribly in earnest
in her admiration for this imposing bit of froth
and foam, this sham Apollo, this pasteboard
Jupiter in whom she believed throughout, and
whom she loved and reverenced in equal proportions.


But have you foreseen consequences ? " Mr.
Branscombe went on to say. " If friends deride ?
If home influences interfere with this sweet

imioD of our souls, can I count on holding you
contrary to the will of your parents ? Loving*
you, child, as I do, can I be the one all-sufficient
in your life ? Ought I ask for so much from

you?

"Oh, Mr. Branscombe ! " said Hortensia in
frank agony ; " you will not let any one divide
us after to-day ? You will not send me away
again after having opened your house to me ?
You will let me live with you, whatever anyone
says ? "

She laid her clasped hands on his shoulder.
It was with an effort that she did not fling
herself across his breast.

For answer, Mr. Branscombe put his arm
round her waist  there, in full view of the
house ; Stella, standing just within the open
frame of the window, irresolute whether to go
and speak to her friend  or to her who was
assumed to be her friend  or whether to stay
quietly where she was and let the two manage
by themselves what seemed somewhat important
business. His arm round her waist, in full
view of the house ; of Stella, undecided what todo
and full of secret trouble ; of Jane Durnsford,
watching from poor dear Mrs. Branscombe's
room for what she had long expected ; of Jones
and the rest of the servants, peeping from the

staircase windows ; of the gardener and the
gardener's lad, peering from behind the laurustinus
bushes in the shrubbery ;  there, in full
view of earth and sky, of man and the gods,
Mr. Branscombe once more stooped his lordly
head, and this time kissed the girl long and
tenderly on her trembling lijos.

My kiss of consecration," he said grandly.
The kiss which claims you as my child-wife."

Oh ! if you mean to marry me, no one can
divide us," said Hortensia naively, smiling with
the happiness of relief from dread, as her fears
were now at rest. Adoption, with a father and
mother of her own alive, might have been
difficult, but marriage was an honourable state ;
and she was secure.

Womanlike, even at this supreme moment
she glanced timidly towards the house and saw
Stella standing within the window-frame, looking
at them. Even at this distance the whiteness
of her face and the darkness of her eyes
were visible ; and her whole look and attitude
suggested an avenging spirit.

Oh ! " cried Hortensia in genuine terror.
Stella has seen ! "

Sweet trembler ! have no fear. Trust in
me  I am your protector, now," said Mr. Branscombe
with tranquillizing dignity, again pressing

her to him as if to make the whole thing
more plain and evident. Turning to the house,
he called out to his daughter. '' Stella, come
here, my dear child," he said blandly. " I have
to speak with you."

Stella came forward ; very slowly, very reluctantly.


To have seen her dear papa kiss Hortensia
Lyon  kiss her as if he meant it  was almost
as if she had seen him transformed into the
likeness of the Prince of Darkness himself. It
was a sin, was it not ?  a crime ?  something
to grow hot and cold over, to blush for, to be
ashamed of, to tremble at ? What could it
mean ? Why should he kiss Hortensia Lyon,
who was not his own child ?  he, that fastidious
and delicate-minded papa who had left off
kissing his own daughter, and who, not so
long ago, had held a long and wonderfully
discourse on the grossness of personal
demonstrativeness and the sweetness of absolute
reticence and stillness. And now he was kissing
Hortensia Lyon on the seat under the cedar-tree,
full in view of the house and its inmates !

She had found no solution to the terrible
enigma by the time she had come up to the
two, still sitting closely pressed together ; Mr.
Branscombe, with his arm round Hortensia's

waist  Hortensia, with her hands clasped in his,
and their whole look and attitude eloquent of
more than the mere arrangement of a new
picture, the inspiration of a new poem.

Mr. Branscombe, mindful of the future fitness
of things, forcibly held Hortensia to her place
and prevented her rising to greet his daughter.
This last came to pay homage, not to receive
the courtesy of an equal ; and the child-queen
must know her place. But if he prevented her
rising, he loosed her clasped hands, took one
and laid it in his daughter's, covering both
with his own.

Love each other, my dear children," he said
theatrically. " Stella, my daughter, receive
your former friend as your father's sweet companion
and peerless source of inspiration and
joy. I present you, my dear Stella, to my
child-wife  the sweetest and most sacred Egeria
of my genius."

Your wife, papa ! " cried Stella, shrinking
back as if she had been struck.

My wife ! " he repeated loudly, so loudly
that all the listeners and peepers round heard
the word.

Stella turned away abruptly, her hands
clasped over her eyes and her whole being
overcome with grief, passion and despair.

Papa ! " she cried after a moment's pause,,
taking lier hands from her face and confronting
them with a wild, heart-broken expression.
Yon say this here, where my mother lived 
where she hears you now, up there, in heaven ! "

What a cruel girl you are, Stella ! " sobbed
Hortensia. " What has a dead wife to do with
her husband's second marriage ? "

And if your sainted mother does view this
scene from her home in the realms of bliss, my
dear Stella," said Mr. Branscombe ; " she will
rejoice that I have supplemented such an unsatisfactory
daughter as she bequeathed to me,
with a wife made after my heart and her own
model. So that calling on the name of your
mother to bring distress upon your father's
future wife does no good to any one, my dear
Stella. It simply recoils in confusion on your
own head. And now, my dear, that I have
informed you of the momentous decision of the
hour, I will not detain you from your avocations.
Your sweet little friend will excuse you,
and I give you leave to withdraw."

But if that good Matilda in the realms of
bliss was so certain to rejoice at this inauspicious
union of January and May, Hortensia's parents
took another view of things, and one not quite
in harmony with the venerable idol and his

youthful adorer. Mrs. Lyon was specially
furious, though secretly not wholly displeased
that events had vindicated her better judgment
and that her husband was thus forced to acknowledge
the superiority of her insight.

I told you so, William, twenty times ! " she
said, when Hortensia, who knew better than
Finery Fred how to manage her parents, had
given them the startling news of her betrothal ;
on the hearing of which her mother had ordered
lier angrily from the room, her father not
objecting. " You would not believe me, but I
have seen it all along. I was certain of it from
the very first ! "

Then if you were so certain you should
have prevented it," said her husband with
masculine injustice. "What was the good of
being certain then, and doing nothing ? And
what is the good of saying all this now, when it
is too late ? '"

Mrs. Lyon burst into those tears which mean
less pain than passion, and were born less of
grief for Hortensia's wayward folly than of
wrath with her husband's injustice.

That is just like you, William ! Just like
you men ! " she said angrily. " You take all
the power out of our hands and refuse to
believe a word we say  spoil the children and

VOL, III. R

weaken our authority  and then you blame us
Ashen things go wrong which we might have
prevented if we had been allowed. You would
not let me have the smallest influence over
Hortensia ; and now you blame me because she
has got into a disgraceful scrape and made
worse than a fool of herself for life ! "

A disgraceful scrape !  No disgrace at all ! "
said Mr. Lyon sharply. " Disgrace ? What
disgrace, Cara ? I am ashamed to hear you
talk so ! There is a little disparity in years,
certainly ; but where is the disgrace, I want to
know, of a girl marrying a man like Mr. Branscombe
? Good family, stainless reputation, more
than well-to-do, fine person, unquestionable
attainments -what disgrace is there in all this,
I say ? " he repeated, energetically drumming
on the table as he warmed to his work of
advocacy and defence.

A man old enough to be her grandfather 
a man years older than her father  the father
of her most intimate girl-friend  his wife dead
only just a year  it is horrible !  it is sacrilege! "
said Mrs. Lyon shuddering.

Pshaw ! The age of the man does not
signify. If it had been the other way you
might have talked," said Mr. Lyon disdainfully.

Tien if I died, I suppose you would think

of marrying Stella," said Mrs. Lyon with weak
sarcasm.

More unlikely things might happen,"
returned Mr. Lyon, with a peculiar kind of sniff
familiar to his intimates. '' But there is not
much likelihood of your giving me any chance,"
he added good-naturedly ; '' so we need not
discuss improbable hypotheses. We have
enough to do with things in hand. And after
all, Cara," he continued in a softer voice, going
over to his wife and laying his broad hand on
]her still round shoulder ; " things might have
been worse for the child. 'Better be an old
man's darling than a young man's slave,' don't
you know ? and our little maid is peculiar and
has fads of her own."

Peculiar and something more ! " put in
Hortensia's mother in a low voice. The
peculiarities " of her daughter had so often
vexed her, she was glad to be able to have her
fling at them without much fear of rebuke.

I confess I have had other views for her,"
Mr. Lyon went on to say, wisely not hearing
his wife's undertones. " And I am disappointed
more than you can be, Cara. But she has
chosen for herself; and perhaps she knows what
she wants better than we do. She may have
done for the best. Mr. Branscombe is old and

therefore will have a gentler hand over her
than Ran would have had. Ran is the best
fellow in the world, but he is a bit of a humbler
when all is said and done ; and our little maid
has always been fastidious and over-sensitive.
I know she had it at heart to make something
of Ran ; but, Lord, what can you do with a
good honest dunderhead like that ? Perhaps
an artistic, musical, picture-making old fellow
like Fred Branscombe, who will keep her in
cotton-wool and cocker her up like a little
queen, will be better for her than poor old
Ran, God help him ! who opens his round eyes
when she goes on her high ropes, and looks as
if she were talking Hebrew when she launches
out about the divinity of art and the  what i&
her favourite word ?  the preciousness, yes the
glorious preciousness ' of a dab of colour here
or a twirling on the piano there. No ; Ran
would hardly have cottoned to that, I reckon ! ""
he said with a queer kind of laugh. " At all
events," he added in the tone of a man who has
taken a resolve and means to keep to it ; " at
all events, Cara, it is her deliberate choice ; and
I won't have her bullied. You hear me, Cara ?
I won t have her bullied ; and we must respect
her choice."

Oh, William, how can you be so foolish ! "

cried Mrs. Lyon. " If that child proposed murder
sou would sanction it ! You cannot spoil her
enough, it seems to me ! "

When she does propose murder and I do
sanction it, then you may cry out," answered
Mr. Lyon quietly. " Meanwhile the main
question is  she loves that old fellow and wants
to marry him. Whether it is good taste or bad,
she wants to marry him. And I give my
consent to the thing, and say again, I won't
have her bullied;  so look where you go, Cara."

'' I wish I was dead ! " said Mrs. Lyon in a
rage.

Whereupon the conversation ended, and Hortensia,
recalled to the drawing-room, was
informed by her father that she was a little fool,
but that she was old enough to know her own
mind and to follow out her own course. And
she was to come and give him a kiss ; and God
bless her, and grant her happiness in the years
to come ! She and his youthful son-in-law
would make a pretty pair and be well matched
for height and age, he added, not able to resist
this little fling at Finery Fred ; but he hoped
the dear boy would be dutiful to himself and
attend to what his dear mother-in-law might
have to say to him. She would probably have
i\ great deal to say, he added with a queer smile.

With the same queer smile he hoped that Stella
Branscomhe would agree with her step-mother ;
and that the two Queens of Brentford would
not fall out about the wearing of the crown.

To all of which Hortensia answered only a
few prim and respectful monosyllables. She
knew her father's humour, and so long as she
got her own way she did not interfere with the
wording of her charter.

But when she drew herself out of his arms,
and went over to kiss her mother and to receive
her blessing also, Mrs. Lyon, on pretence of
wiping her eyes, turned away her face till she
left just the tip of her ears and the nape of her
neck as the only kissable tracts ; saying, in a
low voice, so that her husband should not hear :

I cannot give you my blessing, Hortensia !
This marriage seems to me too monstrous for
God or man to bless. I cannot sanction it ! "

Monstrous ! " repeated Hortensia in a loud
voice. " It is a marriage which God Himself
has made and sanctified ! "

Now, Cara, what did I say just this
minute ? " cried Mr. Lyon, guessing at the
truth as Hortensia meant that he should. " No
bullying and no opposition, if you please. The
thing is done, and we have both  both, mind
you? "with emphasis  " accepted the situation >

There is no good in doing things by halves,
and I will not spoil the cloak for the sake of the
thread. So," ringing the bell ; "we will drink
to the health of our future son-in-law in a
bottle of champagne, and long life to the happy
pair!"

That, wild horses should not make me do ! "
said Mrs. Lyon, bursting into an hysterical
passion of tears and hurrying out of the room.

CHAPTER Xii.

NO WORSE THAN THE REST.

I DO not believe it," said Mrs. Morsliead with
feeble ferocity, half raising herself from among
the pillows whereby she was supported in her
bed. ' I do not believe a word of it, Martha !
You are just cheating me with lies, like all you
hussies. There was never one among you that
could speak the truth."

No, ma'am, it is gospel truth," answered
Martha. " All the place is talking of it ; and
no one seems to think of anything else."

"' Then don't tell me any more about it. I
don't want to hear of such wickedness," said
the old woman savagely. " They ought both
to go to Bridewell ; that's what I say to it ;
and the law should step in to prevent it. A
mere baby like that and an old fellow who
might be her great-grandfathers is a shame
and a sin  worse than heathen Mormonism, I
declare it is ! It makes me ill to think of it."

Well, ma'am, I'm sorry I told you," said
Martha penitently. ' I didn't expect you to
take it to heart like that. I told you only to
amuse you and pass the time."

'' Then you don't amuse me, and I would
rather not pass my time in such shameful
thoughts," said Mrs. Morshead crossly ; and
Martha, who knew her, held her peace.

Presently the old woman spoke again.

And when is the marriage to take place ? "
she asked quite suddenly.

Well, ma'am, as soon as Miss Lyon can get
her things together," said the maid. " They
<:lo say that Mrs. Lyon is that put out she
won't lend a hand to one mortal thing, and that
Miss Lyon she has no one to help her hut her
pa'. But then they say a heap of things hereat
High wood.

And if Mrs. Lyon is put out and won't
help, she is quite in the right," snapped Mrs.
Morshead ; " and now go down and get your
dinner."

It's not time yet, ma'am," said Martha,
who was a devoted soul and had all the nursing,
night and day, on her shoulders. But they
were sturdy ones ; and she worked through her
task without too great fatigue.

I tell you it is," said her mistress sharply.

Go down, I say, and don't come back till I
ring."

Whatever has she in her head now ! " said
Martha to herself as she left the room. " For
most parts she can't hear me out of her sight,
and now to-day, when she's so much weaker
and looks so strange, she sends me off afore my
time. Well, poor dear, the Lord's will be
done !  but He made a queer lot when He
made her ! "

Left alone, Mrs. Morshead shut her eyes and
thought. She knew as well as Martha  as
well as Dr. Quigley would have known, had
she suffered him to come near her  that her
end was at hand, and that the mysterious
malady which had so long held and oppressed
her, had now almost reached its fatal culmination.
Not her days, but her hours, were numbered,
and she was dying, unreconciled to her
daughter. She laid there and thought ; and
tears began to steal silently down her withered,
parched and miserable face. Presently a few
sobs burst from her lips with the irrepressible
impulse of bodily weakness. A board creaked
in the next room  the dressing-room  belonging
to this, the best room in the house  the
door between the two standing very slightly
ajar. The old woman dried her eyes as hurriedly

as If her tears had been sins of which she
was ashamed.

Who is there ? " she cried sharply.

There was no answer, and the boards ceased
to creak. For a moment she looked anxiously
to the door ; then with a fresh sob, this time of
disappointment, she said to herself, but not
aloud : " I thought it might have been that bad
girl. I think she might have come to see me
when she knows how ill I am."

She rang the bell twice, hurriedly.

Martha was by her bedside before the echoes
had ceased.

Yes, ma am ? " she said a little breathlessly.
You was a-wanting of me ? "

Martha," said Mrs. Morshead ; " who is in
the next room ? "

Lor, ma'am, no one ! Who should there
be ? " was Martha's answer ; but her heart ached
when she met those wistful eyes, the secret
desire of which she thought she read.

'' Shut the door, then. And now go at once
for my daughter," said Mrs. Morshead. " I
dare say you know where she is, though her
dying mother, whom she has deserted so cruelly,
does not. You are all in a plot together, you
hussies, and no one knows where to have you.
But go for her, and tell her to come this very

minute if she wants to see her mother alive in
this world  which I dare say she does not.
<jro, can't you ! " she said savagely.

Yes, ma'am," said Martha, disappearing.

In another instant Augusta, without her
bonnet, came into the room and went noiselessly
up to the bed.

You want me, dear mamma ? " she asked
quietly.

Oh ! there you are, are you ? '' her mother
said, keeping up the old sourness of her manner
yet her poor dim eyes brightened. " So you
have condescended to come at last and see your
dying mother, have you ? And now, are you
not ashamed of yourself when you see how ill
I am ? "

What is it, dear mamma ? " asked Augusta
anxiously.

* Cancer," was the answer, made with the
invalid's odd pride in the gravity of the malady.
' Cancer ; that's what I have ; and you as hard
and indifferent all the time as if it were a mere
pinprick. And all those years when I knew
it was coming, and when I had it, you not
caring a jot! You ought to be ashamed of
yourself, if ever a daughter was," the poor old
thing said, whimpering.

"I did not know. Remember, you never
told me, dear mamma," said Augusta gently.

Then you ought to have found out for
yourself. Any other daughter would," said
Mrs. Morshead, her tears of weakness struggling
with her temper. " And here have you left me
to the care of these hussies of servants, and no
one to look after anything. All the housekeeping
going wrong, the butchers' bills mounting
up to goodness knows how much, the drawing-room
fender and fire irons left to rust, and you,
who ought to have been my right hand and
seeing after everything, away no one knows
where, enjoying yourself while your mother was
dying. It is a shame !  a shame ! " she replied
with fresh tears.

Dear mamma, I have never left you," said
Augusta softly. " I have been here all the
time ; watching in the dressing-room when
Martha was downstairs ; taking care of the
house and keeping all things straight."

You have stayed on here of your own freewill
after I ordered you out of my house ? "
asked Mrs. Morshead, opening her eyes on her
daughter and half raising herself in her bed.

At this moment she looked terrible ; like an
ancient Fate, twin sister of death and sin, lying
there for the persecution of mankind.

How could I leave you when you were so
ill ? You were taken ill on the dav you told
me to go," said Augusta.

And you stayed here of your own accord,
against my orders ? "

Yes, mamma."

"swell, Augusta, I must say you are the very
coolest young woman I ever met with," said
Mrs. Morshead, with a curious kind of endeavour
to keep up her anger against the promptings of
her heart. "So, I am not mistress in my own
house, am I not ? I am not to he obeyed when
I say that you and that troublesome little toad
of yours are to go? You stay and stay and
stay because I cannot see you, and disobey meas
if I were a mere nobody ;  upon my word 
what next I wonder ! And where is that little
monkey of yours ? And why, if you are here,
have I never heard him ? "

I sent Tony away that he should not disturb
you, mamma," said Tony's mother.

And what business had you to send the
poor fellow away ? " snapped Tony's grandmother.
" If you chase to stay why might
not he too ?  with a nice garden to run about
in and good food to eat ? You are not a very
kind mother, I must say, Augusta, to keep all
these good things for yourself and let that dear
little boy go without."

I was afraid he would disturb you with his
noise," said Augusta again.

I should have liked this noise' said Mrs.
Morshead. " I was never so impatient with him
as you were. Poor fellow," whimpering afresh;
I should like to have seen his pretty face once

more."

Shall I send for him, dear mamma ? " asked
Augusta.

Send for him now  what nonsense ! " was
the reply. " Why should a dear little lighthearted
child be brought to see an old wretch
like me, like a death's-head ? Send for him, no !
Let things be." After a pause she asked, not
opening her eyes. " Has that Sandy Kemp of
yours been living here too? I should be
surprised at nothing now."

No," answered Augusta quietly.

Where is he ?  in Highwood ? "

Yes, mamma."

There was silence for a few moments, broken
only by the subdued and sleepy purring of the
cat lying in his accustomed place on the bed.

Well, send for him," then said Mrs. Mors-head,
still without opening her eyes. ' You are
all mad and bad together. That's what I think
of you. But you are no worse than your
neighbours. With that little hussy, Hortensia
Lyon, and that old fop, Mr. Branscombe, going*
to make a match of it, I may as well look over

your fault. So send for that sign-painter of
yours, Augusta, and let us hear what he has
to say for his impudent self."

He is downstairs now, mamma," said
Augusta, her colour deepening as she spoke.
' I saw him come up the garden a few minutes
ago. He comes every day to ask for you."

Oh ! " said Mrs. Morshead in her old dry
way ; " does he ? I'm vastly obliged to him, I
am sure. I dare say the state of my health is
of great interest to him. However, if he is
here without leave he may as well come up
with it. So send for him, Augusta. I want to
give him a little piece of my mind."

Augusta said a few words to Martha, standing
outside in the passage, and she went downstairs
softly. Softly too came up Sandro Kemp ; but
when he entered the dimly-lighted room, with
its wide open window and closely-drawn green
blinds, the old woman was lying quiet and
silent, her eyes closed, her breathing regular,
peacefully asleep. The artist came up to her
bed where Augusta was standing, and hand in
hand they kept watch and ward over the frail
and flickering life, waiting until the poor invalid
should awaken. Her long and somewhat deep-drawn
breathing was, as it were, echoed by the
sensually satisfied purr of the cat at her feet ;

the clock ticked sharp and clear on the chimney-piece
; out of doors only a few birds twittered
in the shrubbery bushes ; and the warm, still,
sultry afternoon was as peaceful as if it had
been itself the court of death.

For more than an hour the two stood there
watching the sleep which they half expected
would never turn to waking, when suddenly
Mrs. Morshead opened her eyes and looked at
them both with a smile.

I have had such a nice dream," she said ;
and I declare I have no pain, Augusta ! All
my pain has gone like magic ! "

She spoke in quite a different voice from her
ordinary one ; weaker, lower, but without the
usual acrimony.

I am so glad you are so much easier, dear
mamma," said Augusta lovingly.

So you are there, Sandy Kemp ? " then said
the old woman, fixing her eyes on the artist.
Well ! you are a bold fellow, I must say, to
come and stare at me like this ! But you
always were as impudent as you were high. I
wanted to see you though. So you are going
marry my daughter, are you ? "

"I hope so, Mrs. Morshead," said Sandra
gently.

And you will make her a good husband ? "

VOL. m. s

I think I can say yes to that, without even
the hope," he answered with a sweet grave
smile.

You will do well by the boy, poor fellow ? "
Yes ; have no fear. He will be as my own
son," was the reply.

And you expect to get all my money ?
Not a farthing, Sandy Kemp ! Not a farthing !
I have made my will, and you will not have
the benefit of a single silver sixpence. If you
take the girl and her boy you take them on
your own hands  mind that ! The boy comes
in for all when he is of age ; but it has to
accumulate  accumulate at compound interest
and you will not have a golden guinea for his
schooling, or his birthdays, or anything. Now
are you content with your bargain ? "

The old woman had spoken very feebly, very
slowly, but with perfect distinctness. Her mind
was as clear as ever ; only her body had gone.

I am quite content, Mrs. Morshead. I have
enough for my wife and her boy," said Sandro
firmly but tenderly. " Your money was the
last thing I had in my mind when I asked
Augusta to be my wife ; and I am glad that you
have left all to her boy. He should have been
my heir if he had not been yours."

You are an impudent fellow to put us both

on a par," said Mrs. Morshead sharply ; " and
remember, he takes my name. He shall be no
Latrobe, nor Kemp, nor rubbish of that sort.
He is a Morshead ; and he comes in for all
because he is a Morshead. Do you hear, Augusta
? ''

Yes, mamma. He shall bear your name
and my father's," said Augusta.

And keep that impudent sign-painter of
yours in his proper place," said the old woman
in a feeble wandering kind of way. Then she
smiled and seemed to recollect herself. " No,
he doesn't mean it, I dare say," she said. " I
believe he is an honest man at bottom. I
believe so  I believe so. Oh ! this blessed
freedom from pain ! "

She seemed to doze a little on this, but
presently she woke up again.

Have I been a hard mother to you, Augusta
? " she asked. " Sometimes I think I
have been a little  have I ? "

You have been a little societies," answered
Augusta, frankly but gently.

And you would have been hard too, if you
had had a wolf in your inside for years as I
have had," said Mrs. Morshead sharply. " Then
I have been a bad mother to you, Augusta ? "

No, not that, mamma."

But hard and disagreeable  cross in fact 
a peevish, scolding, cross old woman ? "

We will not think of that now," answered
Augusta soothingly. "I have always loved
you ; and I have always known that underneath
everything you have loved me."

Yes," whimpered the poor creature pitifully ;
I know that I have been bad to you. I know
that I have, Augusta ; and to that poor little
boy, too. I rapped his pretty hands once when
he had done no wrong. I know  I know. But
I've made amends now ; and I was always in
pain, and no one knew. So perhaps you 11 not
mind now when you do know, for it was pain
that was bad to bear. And I was hard to you
too, Sandy Kemp ; but I thought you came
after my money as well as my daughter. Now
it's over  so forgive me  forgive me," she
sobbed. " Think of me gently when I'm
gone !

She said all this almost in a whisper, her
glazing eyes turning slowly from each to each.
Feebly she made as if to put their hands together
; and when, divining her wish, they
clasped them beneath hers, her dying fingers
pressed them gently as a weak, wan smile
flickered about her lips.

Remember me gently when I am gone ! "

she said again in a low whisper ; " and pray
God to forgive me my sins  and your own
too," she added with one of her sudden, sharp
looks  the last that ever she gave.

A long, dull silence fell on the room, broken
only by the more laboured breath of the dying
woman, the sleeping purr of the cat, the ticking
of the clock, marking off the relentless pace of
time. For the last time the old woman opened
her eyes and looked up.

Take care of Martha," she said. " The
hussy has done well of me  and don't let the
boy tease the cat."

Her eyes closed and a slight convulsive shiver
seemed to run over her whole frame. Her
breathing ceased ; her jaw dropped ; the last
moment had come and gone. Then suddenly
the cat started from his sleep, gave a loud
unearthly yell, and, with his tail thick and
arched, dashed off the bed and down the stairs
as if pursued by a legion of fiends.

CHAPTER XY.

THE NEW ORDERING.

No one's affairs excited so much attention or
sympathy at this time at High wood as Stella
Branscomhe's. George Pennefather's engagement
with Yalentine Cowley came as a matter
of course and made no stir. People said : " So
she has caught him at last ! " and there they
left it. Augusta Latrobe's future marriage with
Sandro Kemp had nothing in it to cause uplifted
eyebrows, shrugged shoulders or ill-natured
smiles. It was so eminently suitable that no
one, save Colonel Moneypenny, had a word to
say in its disfavour. But Hortensia Lyon and
old Mr. Branscombe  a mere child and an old
fellow who ought to have been thinking of his
grave and what was to come after  that was
another matter altogether ; and one for which
no person in the place had either sympathy or
respect. Taken by itself even, who could have

given a blessing to such a marriage? But
when was added to this intrinsic unsuitability
the thought of that poor, dear Stella, and what
would become of her? and how could she be
expected to get on with a stepmother younger
than herself ? and how shamefully she had been
sacrificed throughout by that furred and
frogged, curled and dyed and scented father of
hers, first by her own marriage, and now by
his  then the world lifted its head and hissed
in its own underhand and hypocritical way.
That is, it congratulated Hortensia and her
elderly idol to their faces and laughed at them,
when it did not vilify them, behind their backs.
The marriage took place very soon after the
engagement. Anticipation disturbed Mr.
Branscombe's nerves, and he was impatient to
begin his new life and to get all things in order.
Wherefore he declined to wait for conventional
arrangements. His sweet angel, his child wife,
his Little Love, he said, did not pin her heart
on millinery pomp, and she would be as
happy with three frocks as thirty :  " Happier,"
said Hortensia meekly :  And as, according to
Mr. Branscombe, "frocks" are the great barriers
to feminine speed in all matters, the decision
of "one off, one on, and one to spare" settled
the question ; and the marriage was the great

event of the day, just three weeks after that
conversation on the garden-seat beneath the
cedar-tree on the lawn.

During the honeymoon, which lengthened out
into nearly three, nothing could exceed the
kindness of the neighbourhood to Stella.
Every one offered her a home, and she was
made the spoiled child of the place. Augusta
begged her to come to The Laurels  but then
Ethel White vvas there, and Stella a little
shrank from her; also she felt a little constrained
with that sweet Augusta herself,
remembering all the good advice that she had
given her, and her warnings about the incoming
tide, the full meaning of which she understood
now though it was hidden from her then.
So she said '' No " to Augusta, and held on her
way alone at Rose Hill.

Then the Penneflithers asked her ; but Sher-jardine
was noisy, and the constant coming and
going of Yal might be an embarrassment.
Wherefore Sherrardine would not do for a
temporary home ; nor would Derwent Lodge,
though the Lyons were perhaps the most pressing
of all. Mrs. Lyon had a vague idea of
adopting Stella as their daughter in the place
of the one who had left them ; and she was unwise
enough to say so. After she and her

husband had pressed the girl to go back with
them to Derwent Lodge, Mr. Lyon, in his
hearty, hospitable way, meaning simply what
he said : '' To pass the time till the happy pair
came home "  the still incensed and unreconciled
mother burst into tears and added :

Yes, come home with us, dear Stella, and
make it your own. Be my daughter ; for I
have lost my own ! "

But when she said this Mr. Lyon turned
round on her and rebuked her sternly, saying :

"No, no, not that, Cara. The little maid
lias not perhaps made the marriage that I would
have chosen for her, but children marry to
please themselves, not their parents ; and she
has only done like the rest. We did the same
ourselves in our day," he added significantly.
So, although I shall be as glad to see you, my
dear child "  to Stella  " as if you were a
princess, I cannot countenance any nonsense
fibout your taking our little maid's place, or
that we are daughterless now. She Avill be
always our own and our dearest ; and we cannot
supply her place ;  and have no need to."

In the face of all this, Stella wisely thought
that going to Derwent Lodge would only complicate
matters already too much involved for
perfect peace ; and that standing as a bone of

contention between husband and wife was not
exactly the happiest position in the world.
Wherefore, this invitation was rejected with
the rest ; and the girl remained at Rose Hill
with the feeling of one keeping close to an old
friend about to be lost, or who at least will
never be the same again.

But of all the offers of home and keep that
made by Dr. Quigley was the oddest. He
drove up to Rose Hill one day, to find Stella
alone, as he had hoped and scarcely expected ;
for she was not left much to herself, and people
were really very kind and rather worrying.

Grlad to see you and to find you alone," said
the doctor, as he alighted from his dog-cart and
came up to her as she sat reading on the lawn 
but not on the seat underneath the cedar-tree.
She had never sat there since the day when her
father had kissed Hortensia Lyon in the face of
day, and then presented her to her future
stepmother. " Grlad to find you alone," he
repeated.

Yes ? " said Stella smiling, as she held out
both her hands and looked into his face affectionately.


Dr. Quigley was a great favourite with her
and she had always treated him as if he had
been some sort of uncle.

I want to make a ]proposal to you," he said,
looking at her from under his bushy eyebrows.

Yes ? " she answered again, smiling.

The word might have been ominous to some
ears; but Stella were not sharp to detect
echoes of a doubtful kind.

I want to make a proposal," he repeated,
watching her. " What are you going to do
when your father comes home with your young*
stepmother ? "

What am I going to do ? " echoed Stella.
Nothing ! "

You will live at home ? "

Surely ! What else can I do ? "

You can bear it ? "

It will be very painful at the first ; but
where can I go ? " returned Stella.

Come to me," said Dr. Quigley. " I have a
sister who is much older than I  she will come
and be your chaperon if you want one ; but do
you come to me as my daughter. Be my child.
I was your mother's nearest friend. I knew of
her what no one else did. She trusted me, and
there was no one in the world, and never has
been one, whom I have reverenced, admired,
worshipped as I did her." His eyes filled with
tears as he said this. He stopped for a moment,
unable to speak for emotion. " And you are

her cliilcl," lie then went on to say ; " and
because you are lier daughter you are as dear tome
as my own. Will you leave this house of
certain sorrow, Stella, and come to me as my
own prized and cherished child  my daughter,
and my sister's treasure ?  for I know how
dearly she will love you."

Thank you  I cannot say how much I
thank you," said Stella, tears in her eyes too ;
but I could scarcely do that, dear Dr. Quigley.
I feel your goodness more than I can express,
but I could scarcely put such an affront
on papa as to leave him and choose another
father."

Ah, well, child !  if you see it in that light
I have no more to say," replied the doctor
sadly. " I cannot force any one's conscience ;
and of course, as you say, taking another father
is a different thing from taking a husband.
That you could do without remorse. Have you
no kind of liking for any young mean here ? " he
asked, thinking of Randolph Mackenzie.

No ! no ! " said Stella energetically, thinking
of Valentine Cowley.

'' And now answer me truly  and look me in
the face when you speak, Stella Branscombe ! 
Is your heart where it was ? Do you still love
Cyril Ponsonby ? "

Dr. Quigley spoke slowly, almost sternly.
He spoke not as a pleader, but as an inquisitor
who meant to come to the truth.

Cyril Ponsonby does not love me," said
Stella evasively.

The tears in her eyes were more expressive
than her words.

That is no answer. Women, God help
them, poor fools ! go on loving men long after
they have ceased to be loved ; and you are one
of that sort. You love him still?" he asked
again.

I do not love any one else," she answered.
You love him ? " he persisted.
Stella was silent for a moment. Then she
turned to the old friend who was torturing her
for her own good, and said gently but frankly :
' Yes, I do."

Ah ! " said the doctor briskly ; " now I
know where I stand and what I have to do."

Upon which he took his leave in his usual
hurried and imperative way, as if suddenly
ordered off by some viewless commander whose
behests he must obey at all cost and all hazards ;
leaving Stella plunged in wonder as to where
he was standing and what he meant to do.

That pleasant honeymoon in the great art-centres
of Europe could not be prolonged forever,

and the happy pair must perforce come
home. It was an odd home-coming essentially,
if on the surface of things everything was
after the regulation pattern of bridal welcome.
Flowers were set in pots along the carriage-drive,
and flowers were set in vases in all the
rooms ; the gates and doors were thrown wide
open ; the servants, dressed in their Sunday
best, stood waiting to welcome in the hall ; Mr.
and Mrs. Lyon, with Eandolph Mackenzie and
Stella, were at the hall-door, and all ran down
the steps as the carriage drove up. Everything
was as it should be ; but, save in Mr. Lyon's
embrace to his daughter, the heart was out of
everything and it was just a mere raree-show
in which no life nor soul nor meaning lay.
Still, the look of things was as it should be ; and
no one has the right to go behind the look of
things and inquire into the hidden spirit.

Mr. and Mrs. Lyon stayed to dinner ; so did
Eandolph ; and thus Stella was helped through
the awkwardness of the first evening. It was
only Stella who felt any awkwardness or who
needed to be helped ; for Hortensia was as calm
and composed, as much at her ease and as much
at home, as if she had been married in her
cradle and had grown up on Finery Fred's
knee. She was the same quiet, prim, unabashed

little Puritan as ever : but she had added a
certain  not sensual, but somewhat audacious
demonstration of affection which set the teeth
of all the onlookers on edge. She made as
much love to her Precious Prince, as she now
called her elderly idol, as if the two had been
alone in their private apartments at the " Continental
" or the " Grand ; " and she made them
all understand that henceforth her devotion to
her husband would be not only supreme and
undivided, but also aggressive ;  that it would
be flourished in their faces as an affront, a
defiance to them in proportion to its intensity
to him. And it was also evident that she
would be jealous and exacting in all that she
demanded from him, as a return for the exclusiveness
of the affection given to him.

She manifestly intended to do the thing
thoroughly throughout. As she had undertaken
the position of an old man's wife, she
would do what she could to sink her own
childishness and ape the maturity which as yet
she was so far from having attained. She had
bought in London a large stock of wide-frilled
and exaggerated " Charlotte Corday " caps,
which covered all her hair and gave her the
quaintest look of masquerade imaginable. She
wore a very high ruff and a Marie Antoinette

fichu ; and, save in the exuberance of her
idolatry for her husband  which, for all its
excess, was wanting in all that sentiment which
brings dew to the lip, a quiver to the eyelid, o
blush to the cheek  in all that impulse of self-forgetfulness
which is the crown of a woman's
love  she was very prim and mortally staid
and proper. Long ago she had abjured cakes
and ale for her own part and had denied them to
others  long ago she had set her seal against
youthful follies of every kind  but she had
drawn the bands of denial yet more closely
since the day which had made her Finery Fred
Branscombe's wife, and in the dignity of her
position found even laughter an anomaly and a
jest reprehensible. How intensely dignified she
was to all the outside world ! and how intensely
she was satisfied with, and glorified by, her new
husband ! Language seemed unable to express
her delight in her elderly plaything, her joy in
her conjugal doll. She could not bear to be
absent from him, nor, when in his presence, to be
separated by more than a few inches from his
side. At the breakfast-table the Precious Prince
had to leave his long-accustomed place at the
foot of the table that he might sit close to herat
the head  so close that she could touch his
hand when she gave him his chocolate ; put her

slender fingers on his knee by way of hidden
caress ; butter his toast ; take from his plate to
her own the bones of his fish, of his fowl ; and
turn so that she could look into his face across
the angle of the table that came between them.
At dinner she deserted her rightful place at
the head that she might come down close to
him at the foot  Stella sitting some way up the
other side. In the studio she interrupted his
work by her caresses, which however he did
not resent  going back on what he had done as
titles to honour of so much magnitude he need
not repeat them, the time having come when he
might rest on his laurels  but what laurels and
what a rest ! Though she interrupted and cut
short his activities in a fashion  too delightful
for him to suppress, she did not damp his
aesthetic ardour nor wound his artistic susceptibilities.
She fed that restless craving, which
he called his genius and those who knew him
best his vanity, with food at once rich, sweet,
delicate  food eminently suited to his taste, and
by which he was exhilarated and made content.
The whole thing ran on casters and stood on
velvet ; and the young wife's marriage crown
of roses had but one thorn  and that thorn was
Stella.

If only Stella would find herself a husband

VOL. III. T

and take herself away ! Why could she not ?
What a wicked, disobedient, tiresome girl she
was to have refused Yalentine Cowley !  and
why on earth should she not marry Randolph
Mackenzie ? He was just suited to her. He
had not a poetic idea in his head, nor had she ;
and they would go through life in the most
admirable harmony of earthworminess and intellectual
vacuity. Why not Randolph ? Why
not, indeed !

In their wish to free themselves from the
somewhat embarrassing presence of the daughter,
both husband and wife agreed to a line ;
and Randolph got the good of the situation.
He was almost as much at Rose Hill now as in
the days of his secretaryship ; and Stella, who
was indeed stupid in these things, saw neither
the designs of the authorities nor the feelings
of the poor fellow himself. She only knew
that it was pleasant to have her Brother with
her so constantly, and that it was dull when
she was left so very much alone.

For, in the house, she was always alone  cutoff
as completely from her father as if she were
living in a brazen tower whence she only
saw him in the evening walking in the garden
below. Hortensia could not bear to have her
in the same room with them. It seemed to

take that marriage crown of roses from her
brow and to reduce her once more to plain
Hortensia Lyon, here on sufferance and holding
only the second place with her beloved idol. If
Stella came into the studio in the morning, as
at first she did and until better taught, her
youthful stepmother, sitting close to the domestic
Apollo whose bays she had renewed so lavishly,
would lift her head from his shoulder and say
in her prim way :

"Dear Stella, this place does not suit you.
Dr. Quigley said so, if you remember. Precious
Prince, don't you think Stella had better not
stay ? The atmosphere suits us ; but then she is
not like us  is she ? "

On which Finery Fred, who wanted his
daughter no more than did Hortensia, would
smile blandly and smooth his wife's silky hair
and say to Stella, not looking at her :

"My dear Stella, Mrs. Branscombe is quite
right. The atmosphere here of art, flowers
sand perfume does not suit you ; why attempt
it, my dear child ? "

When the two went out it was always together
and Stella was left behind. Hortensia
would say :

"I do not think it would look well, dear
Stella, if you came with us to-day. We are

going to pay a return call "  here or there 
' and it would scarcely do for you to be with
us. It makes it awkward for me, such a great
girl as you are now ! " she sometimes added
with an indescribable air of superior maturity,
as if she had been a pretty wife of about
thirty and Stella a lanky hoyden of sixteen,
say.

So, on the days when they went to pay their
return calls, or when they wanted to walk by
themselves and gain inspiration, or when they
had business in the town, or liked better than
anything else to stay in the house, or to lounge
about the garden, or to take a brisk ride deep
into the country  that is, every day save Sunday
 the elderly husband and his youthful wife
were " in each others' pockets " as the Penne-fathers
said, and Stella was left alone  or with
Randolph Mackenzie.

There was another change in the girl's relations
with her father which cut her to the heart ;
he had entirely left off kissing her. Since his
first cold embrace on their home-coming, he had
never touched even her forehead nor suffered
her to touch his. It made his child-wife, his
little angel, unhappy; and he respected her
scruples of delicacy and exclusiveness. Wherefore
he merely put out two fingers when he

wished his former Star good night and good
morning ; and Hortensia did not do even this.

Times were indeed changed for Stella !  and it
was difficult to learn her new place and to
remember her lessons. One evening when the
three were sitting with Eandolph Mackenzie,
in the drawing-room  paired off as but little
more than a year ago the father and mother,
the lover and his betrothed, had been paired 
Stella rang the bell.

Why did you ring ? " asked Hortensia, pulling
the corners of her lips together.

For a glass of water," said Stella simply.
' A glass of water, if you please, Jones," she
said, as the man came into the room ; but Hortensia's
tones over-ruled hers, as she too said
in a decided and staccato kind of voice :

Jones ! a glass of water for Miss Branscombe."


When the water had been brought and the
man had come and gone, Hortensia turned to
her cousin.

Randolph, it is time for you to go," she said
in her quiet, prim way. " It is half-past nine."

Yes, Hortensia  I mean Mrs. Branscombe,"
stammered Randolph, who had been strictly
tutored but who never remembered. " I did
not know that it was so late."

I think my good Mr. Eaiidolpli knows very
little of anything at any time," said Mr. Branscombe
with a lofty kind of smile  Prospero
magnanimously refraining from torturing Caliban
but never forgetting his brutish inferiority.

Randolph coloured.

I know I am stupid, Mr. Branscombe," he
said awkwardly.

Never mind being stupid," said Stella
naively. " You are good."

What an extraordinary thing to say ! " said
hortensia, putting on her most Puritanical air.
I am Randolph Mackenzie's cousin, almost like
his sister, and I never paid him an open compliment
like that ! "

"It is not a compliment, it is the truth,"
answered Stella.

Come ! it is time for you to go, Mr. Randolph.
Have you not heard Mrs. Branscombe's
desire ? " put in Mr. Branscombe impatiently.
*' How long do you wish to detain your young
friend, my dear Stella, for the pleasure of
making pretty speeches to him ? Will they
not keep till tomorrow ? "

"Yes, papa, quite well," said Stella a little
defiantly.

It was not her dear papa whom she defied
but the thought of hortensia which spoke

through his lips, the spirit of this mischievous
usurper who used that majestic form and face asher
mask.

Good night ! " then said Randolph hurriedly
; he was sorry to hear Stella rebuked for
him  but how sweet the occasion ! Good ? she
thought kim good ? Would she ? Could she
ever be brought to cling to him as to her safeguard,
her protector, her lover ? Oh ! how he
would protect her, how he would care for her !
and Cyril, who had renounced her, wished
that he had been her choice ! Would it ever
come ? Heaven in its mercy grant it ! Dear
stars shining above, send down sweet influences
into her heart ! All good angels, all blessed
spirits breathe the thought into her heart and
guide her wish to meet his prayer !

Never since he was born had Randolph felt
as he felt to-night, when walking home to his
uncle's house. He did not know himself, nor
life, nor thought, nor desire. One with the
starry night, yet longing for the sunny day 
glad in the peace, in the sleeping stillness, of
nature, yet yearning for the flush and flow of
her activities  blessed in the actual moment, but
looking forward to tomorrow  the present and
the future both had a different meaning for him
from what either ever had before ; and love

wrought in his dull soul the great miracle of
transformation  from a clod evolving a poet,
out of clay striking the divine fire of inspiration.
He seemed to tread on air as he walked
along, and to move as if in some rainbow-coloured
dream. The sharp night wind of early
autumn was like great draughts of iuq which
stirred his blood and peopled his brain with
glorious visions of saints and angels, of fair
gardens and stately palaces ;  all because a pale
and sad-eyed girl had said he was good and had
been rebuked for her advocacy, which yet she
had not withdrawn. Oh Love ! oh Love ! king
and magician  god and demon  the wind that
blows over the harp of the human heart  the
sun-rays which colour the clouds :  and we 
what are we but poor fools in your great court,
shaped, blessed and broken according to your
own supreme will !

And now had come Hortensia's domestic
opportunity for final and decisive self-assertion.
She had been waiting for it ; and it had come
at last. So soon as the door had shut on Randolph
Mackenzie she very quietly unhooked
from her chatelaine the master-key which
represented her authority in the house and her
mistresshood. With  a meek air of solemn
renunciation she laid it on the little table beside

Mr. Branscombe's glass of " eau sucree a fleur
derange."

Dear Stella," she said  she was generally
careful to add the " dear " when she called the
girl by her name  " Dear Stella, I wish you to
take the housekeeping. I do not care to have
it if it makes you unhappy. I have your
precious father ; and he is all the world to me.
But if I am to be mistress I must be sole mistress.
We cannot have two ringing the bell
and ordering the servants. It must be you or
I  one or the other  but not both. Am I not
right, Precious Prince ? "

Certainly, Little Love ; one must be at the
head of affairs. That is only logical," was Mr.
Branscombe's answer.

But is there anything against your authority
in my asking, in my own home, the servant
whom I can remember ever since I was born,
to bring me a glass of water ? " said Stella
rather warmly.

He is my servant now," answered Hortensia
; " and pray, dear Stella, do not lose
your temper at such a very small observation.
I feel it due to your dear father, far more than
to myself, to keep my proper place and prevent
encroachments. But where is the need of
getting into a passion about it ? You lose your
temper so soon, dear Stella ! "

I do not think you can say that, Hortensia,"
said Stella hastily.

And, dear Stella," Hortensia continued in
her quiet monotonous hard voice ; " I wish you
would not call me plain Hortensia, just as when
we where girls together. I do not care for
myself, of course ; but I do not think it is
respectful to your father  whose wife I am. In
respecting me you respect him, and the contrary.
If you do not like to call me mamma "
" No ! " flashed out Stella, " I will never do
that ! "  " at least call me Mrs. Branscombe,"
continued Hortensia in the same smooth quiet
way as before. How that wicked Stella longed
to shake her ! "I may be young to be your
stepmother ; and of course you are a great girl
now and grown up, and you may not like to
have me here as the mistress and your precious
father's wife ; but it was his will, and that
ought to be sacred to you. Am I not rights
Precious Prince ? " she added as her peroration,
turning her adoring eyes on her husband.

My Little Love is always right," returned
Finery Fred, with a dash of uneasiness in his
manner. " And Stella, my dear child," he
added, steadying himself into the semblance of
grave displeasure  but why ? " you will find
your best happiness as your best policy in

respect for my wife and in attention to what she
desires."

I am to understand then, that I am not ta
ring the bell, here in my own home, nor ask
the servant to even bring me a glass of water
without your permission ? " said Stella, she bespeaking
quietly so far as manner went, but her
heart within on fire.

Not in my presence," answered Hortensia.
I am the mistress, and I must be treated as
the mistress."

And as for calling you Mrs. Branscombe 
yes, I will, with pleasure," Stella went on to
say, her colour rising, her eyes darkening, her
voice deepening. " I would call you anything,
Hortensia, that should best express the unfathomable
gulf there is between us and the
infinite wrong that you have done me ! "

Precious Prince, protect me 1 " cried Hortensia,
flinging herself into her husband's arms
and bursting into tears. " Now you see what I
have to endure ! " she added, sobbing.

Stella, apologize to my wife," said Mr.
Branscombe sternly.

Never ! " said Stella, rising and facing her
father. "It is she who has done me the
wrong, not I who have injured her. I will not
apologize, papa ! "

Then leave the room," said Mr. Branscombe,
whom the tears of his Little Love distressed as
much as his former Star's wicked temper and
contumacy annoyed. " Leave the room, and do
not let me see your face again till you have come
to a better frame of mind, and can recognize
both your blessings and your superiors."

So down with a crash went another cardboard
Temple of Love ; and the warrant of poor
Stella's disinheritance from her father's affection
was finally and definitely signed.

CHAPTER Xii.

AT THE BREAKFAST TABLE.

The next morning, when Randolph came up ta
Rose Hill as usual, he saw that something
had happened to gravely disturb Stella  Stella,
always his radiant Star, how much soever she
might have paled for others.

The excitement of the foregoing night was
still upon the faithful soul for whom Mr. Branscombe,
as Prospero, could find no simile so
exact as that of Caliban. He felt as if he bore
in visible characters about him the words of his
great desire, his fervent thought, and, by dint
of desiring and thinking, his fragrant hope. Ashe
walked along the road that led to Rose Hill,
he felt as if he were coming to the term of his
present career and to the opening of a new life.
But when he saw Stella's face, pale and mournful
as in the days when love had been at war
with duty and Cyril's was the one name ta

which she dare not give utterance, then his
heart died within him ; and yet it did not die.
Only himself and all his own great hope and
yearning sank into the background, and how
he could best make her happy was the guardian
sentinel of all the rest.

What is the matter, dearest Stella ? " he
said, as he took both her hands in his, in his
deep love and faithful sympathy forgetting to
be formal and conventional.

Randolph, I am just broken-hearted," she
said. "You must help me ; you must tell me
what I am to do. I am too wretched as things
are  it is impossible to go on like this ; but I
am bewildered, and do not know where to turn
for help."

I am glad you have come to me. What is
it ? " he said again, simply but earnestly.

How his heart beat ! Why did she leave her
hands in his ? Did she feel the spirit that ran
through his blood, as a song not yet born into
sound flows in unspoken melody through the
brain ?

I will tell you, and then you can judge,"
she answered  poor miserable Stella ! with her
somewhat prosaic sorrows created by feminine
jealousy and girlish littleness as her answer to
his poetic exaltation, his divine fire !

And on this she told him of what had
happened last night after he had left ; of the
coldness like death existing between her and
her father ; of how Hortensia had come between
them so that things would never be right
again ; and of how it was impossible for her,
Stella, to remain at home in the false and
humiliating position to which her young stepmother
had doomed her.

You cannot stay," said Eandolph in a low
voice. " You must leave, Stella, for your own
sake, your own self-respect."

I know I must," she answered ; " but where
can I go ? What can I do ? It would be such
an affront to papa if I went out as a companion
or a governess ! And I could not live with anyone
here. When I go I must go quite away."

You must," echoed Eandolph  " quite
away."

All this time he had been holding her hands
in his, she scarcely knowing that he was doing
so, but only conscious of a certain sense of
friendly sympathy and protection, of a certain
tender brotherliness which made the sadness of
the moment less intolerable.

Stella," he then said, his voice low and
sweet as a song, his face transformed from its
usual clumsy goodness and doglike devotion

into the face of a man of full purpose, resolute,
impassioned, and raised by love to the
dignity of self-assertion, to the majesty of manhood
; " dear Stella, come with me. Give me
the right to care for you, to love you, to protect
you, to make you happy. I do not ask you to
love me  not yet  only to let me love you and
work for you ; to keep you from all harm and to
make you as happy as the devotion and respect
of my life can make you. You are the only
woman' I have ever loved, and if I could make
your life happy I should ask nothing more of
fate or fortune."

That softened voice, those pleading eyes, that
earnest face !  and the true good loyal heart
within which these but faintly expressed ! Stella
looked up at him, her own eyes dark and humid;
her own face full of emotion ; but alas ! not of
the kind that matched his.

Oh, Randolph ! Randolph ! I am so
sorry ! " she said, bending towards him in pure
sweet pity. " I never dreamt of such a thing 
I did not see nor suspect it. You are just tome
my own dear, dear brother, and I had no
idea that I was more to you. What can I do 1
what can I say ! I am so sorry, so grieved, but
I could not marry you, dear. It would be impossible
!  it would be sacrilege ! "

Why ? " he asked, his ruddy face as pale as
the white hand which he still held in his own.

You are my brother," she said evasively.

There is no law against such a brotherhood
as mine becoming something nearer and dearer,"
pleaded Eandolph with more acuteness than he
generally displayed.

But I could not," she answered.

Tell me straightly why, Stella Star of all
the earth to me," said Randolph. "Is it
because you do not love me ?  only because you
do not love me ? "

She looked down, her face full of distress.

Or is it," he continued, his voice grave and
steady, no longer low and musical but like the
voice of one to whom truth is dearer even than
love ; " is it because you still love Cyril ? "

Stella turned away her head.

He no longer loves me," she said ; then she
looked up into Randolph's face ; " but I do still
love him," she added, with a kind of spiritual
self-abandonment, as flattering in its own way,
if less satisfactory, than if she had confessed
that she loved him himself. " I cannot help it,
Randolph! I know that it is mean-spirited,
weak, unwomanly, horrid, but I do love him !
I do ! " she repeated fervently. " And never to
the end of my life could I love any one else ! "

VOL. III. U

Then all is said," answered poor Randolph
sadly, and yet how noble in his sadness, how
heroically unselfish, how grand in his self-suppression
! "I could not even beseech you to
love me, if your heart is still with Cyril. But
you must always let me be your brother, Stella,
and you must forget all that I have said. It
was just the madness of the moment ; and you
must make use of me as if I were really the own
brother you feel me to be. Will you promise
this, dear ? You do not know how I can keep
back what it would be unworthy, as well as unwise,
to encourage. You will never see anything
more in me than you have hitherto, if only you
will love me as your best friend, your true
brother."

He still kept her hands and bent forward,
looking into her face. All the inspiration, the
fervid poetry, the ecstatic dream, the grand
awakening from the earth-bound poverty of his
daily life had gone. He was once more only
the humble guardian, the faithful watch dog,
the devoted friend, the unselfish, loyal and protecting
brother, the incorruptible lieutenant
guarding the captain's treasure ; he was once
more Brother Randolph, and the sudden, swift,
illumination had passed as if it had never
been.

Promise to give me back your trust and
sisterly love," he said, tears in his eyes.

Yes*' said Stella fervently. " I believe in
you, Randolph, as I believe in the day, and I
trust you as I trust my own soul."

Thank you ; and God bless you," said Randolph,
lifting her pale thin hands to his lips,
and kissing them as a devotee might have kissed
the shrine of his god.

But all this had not answered Stella's latest
questions ; What was she to do ? and Where
was she to go ?

When Randolph went back to Derwent Lodge
he found a telegram waiting for him there  a
telegram which had exercised his aunt Cara
greatly and made her as terrified as people who
live in the country are generally made by these
swift and mysterious messengers. He opened
it, and found that the sender was Cyril 
; the place, London ; the date, that very
day. It was concise and peremptory, saying
simply: " Come up at once. You will find meat
the club ; " leaving him in a fog as to all the
rest :  Why Cyril had come back so suddenly
from India ; why he wanted to see him, Randolph
; and what was to be the upshot of all
this strange confusion. He could but obey
the summons of his friend ; and without even

sending a message to Stella, he flung his things
into his portmanteau and just caught the up-train,
without half a minute to spare.

It was late when he got to London, but
mindful of his duty as lieutenant and friend, he
drove straight to the rendezvous appointed. He
found Cyril, with his hat over his eyes, sitting
in the reading-room, pretending to be interested
in the dullest newspaper on the table and not
seeing a word of what he looked at.

At last ! " said Cyril, drawing a deep breath
as Eandolph entered. " God bless you, old
fellow ! I knew that I could count on you."

" To the death," said Eandolph below his
breath. Aloud he only answered : " Of course.
What brings you over, old man ? " then asked
Pylades, looking wistfully at the grave,
changed, melancholy face of the once careless,
happy boy.

How the character of it had altered ! How
all the laughter had turned to stern decision ;
all the gaiety to grave intensity !  how utterly
the boy had died, and with what mournful
power the man had risen from his ashes !

Stella," said Cyril !

Eandolph felt his own face grow pale, but he
neither winced nor shrank. It was the hour of
his ordeal and he had to go through with it to
the end.

*' Yes ? and why ? " lie answered, his light
blue eyes raised straight and calm into his
friend's face.

"Both Ethel White and old Quigley have
written to me," said Cyril. " And both have
told me to come home and see Stella. But I
cannot believe in any one as I believe in you, old
fellow  you will tell me the truth. What is
the truth. Ran ? Does Stella still love me, or
am I wanted by the friends as a kind of pis-aller
against her father ? I know that Yal Cowley
is engaged to the Pennefather girl, so there is
no truth in that report ; but I am sore. Ran,
and suspicious, and do not see my way. I
loved that girl. God ! yes, I loved her ! " he
said.

He turned away his head, then crossed his
arms on the table and laid his face upon them,
trembling.

"And she loves you," said Randolph in a
steady voice, laying his hand on Cyril's
shoulder. " She has never wavered, Cyril.
When all sorts of reports came down she stuck
to you in public as well as private, and refused
to believe a word to your disfavour. Go down
to her, old man. You will find her where you
left her."

Not a chord in the clear voice shook ; not a

muscle of the honest face changed. His strong
heart was braced to sacrifice, and the holocaust
was offered up without failing or wavering.

Is this true, Ean ? God's own truth ? '
cried Cyril lifting up his face.

"True as the sun in the sky'' said Eandolph,
There is no purer lovelier soul in Christendom
than Stella Branscombe ; and she loves you."

Cyril held out his hand to his friend, and the
two exchanged one of those silent pressures
which mean more than words to men.

Thank you," he said simply. " I know
that I have to thank you ! "

No," said Eandolph frankly ; " you have to
thank her alone. I love her as much as you
do, Cyril ; but she loves you only. And now
good-bye ; you have no time to lose. The night-train
will take you down in time for breakfast
and she is too good to be kept longer in
suspense. Good-bye, old fellow ; and good
luck."

But you  when shall I see you again ? ""
said Cyril anxiously.

A sad kind of smile came over Eandolph's
face.

That is rather uncertain," he said. " I am
off to New Zealand by the next mail, and do
not see my way back to England again just yet.

But I must not keep you. Hurry up, and God
bless you."

Once more the two young men clasped hands ;
and then Eandolph Mackenzie passed out into
the distance and the night, never more to cross
the platforms of those lives which he had helped
to bless at the expense of his own.

Was it a good omen or a bad that Cyril
should have chosen that very carriage over the
window of which, more than a year ago now, he
had scrawled, out of the very exuberance of his
happiness and hope : " My Love! My Love! " ?
My Love ! "  How it thrilled him with a
strange sense of presage when he first caught
those graven words and remembered all the
glad folly of the hour ! Was it the word of the
past done with and dead ? or was it the earnest
of the future linking itself on to the past ?
Eandolph had assured his success ; and Eandolph
never lied. It was surely for good  a prophecy
of safety, an omen of success. Much as he
had learned to doubt, little as he now suffered
himself to hope or to trust, this time the old
spirit conquered the new lessons. Yes, it was
an omen for good ; and he fairly laughed aloud
as he drew his diamond ring from his finger 
her ring which he had not returned and which
imtil now had never left his hand  and

scrawled a big Star in the corner of alae pane.
Then he added the date ; and his voice went up
like a prayer  " My Love ! [y Love ! "

The Branscombe family were at breakfast
when he arrived at Rose Hill, just as on that
bright May morning when the accepted lover,
the glad son of the house, had come down to
his own, full of that confident assurance which
has gone past the stage of hope. Now, as then,
he had sent on no word of warning, no avant
courier, either of demand or prayer. He trusted
all to the revelation of the moment, to the truth
made manifest by the unprepared confession of
surprise. It was a risk in more ways than one,
and thoughtless as regarded Stella; but he. did
not wait to think ; and so, without warning or
previous notice, he came into the room  Jones
opening the door and saying : " Mr. "'
as if the lad had been here only yesterday
and was fully expected to-day.

Stella started to her feet and turned to him,
but without moving. She only said, in a
breathless kind of way :

Cyril, have you come at last ? "

But one look in his eyes was enough. The
sad face of the bronzed, mournful, bearded man
was the face of him who had loved her as a boy
and who loved her now as much as then. The

honest eyes, less glad than they were a year
ago, were still as frank and truthful, as candid,
as sincere, and still the eyes of one who could
neither lie nor feign. The hands held out to her
were as strong to hold, the arms which clasped
her close to that throbbing heart, ran with blood
as warm and loyal as in the days gone by. The
voice which said " My Love ! My Love ! "  the
lips which kissed hers there in the sight of prim
Hortensia, to whom only her own kisses were
virtuous  of elegant Mr. Branscombe, to whom
he was but an earthworm and a clod  those
lips were as loving as before, as faithful as
were her own. What need of explanation ? Who
wanted assurance ? All was told and all was
known. They loved each other now as they
had loved each other then ; and the clouds which
had risen between them were swept away forever
now when the great sun-god Love shone on
them once again. The bonds which had been
broken were reunited ; and the checked fountain
of joy sprang up from the barren sands where
it had been lost  laughing in the sun as it rose.
Mr. Branscombe looked at Hortensia for a lead.
His Little Love had her hand on the silken
rein, and the finest, smallest, most invisible
but most inflexible silver hook was in the
nostrils of the great autocrat. She looked back

t him, understanding his appeal and taking in
the whole situation at a glance.

' How glad I am ! " she said smiling as she
hent her head to his, speaking in an audible
whisper. " Dear Stella ! she has deserved her
happiness. This is the marriage of all others
for her ! How wise she has been to see it !
Don't yon think so. Precious Prince ? "

Yes, Little Love. I have always wished it
always desired it," said Mr. Branscombe with
graceful acquiescence, stately and jocund in one.

He turned to Cyril, and, just as in olden
times, held out two long white scented fingers,
with their filbert-shaped nails so delicately
pared and daintily polished. He did not even
rise from his seat. The Son of the House was
beyond these small formalities, and paternal
familiarity was the better welcome.

' Ah, Cyril, dear boy, good morning ! " he
said, exactly as if he had seen him over night,
with no excitement, no surprise, no questioning
as to how or why he had so suddenly appeared.
Jones, a plate for Mr. Ponsonby. What will
you have, my dear boy? I can recommend
those kidneys a la Soubise ; and young appetites
are generally sharp-set. By the way, first let
me present you to Mrs. Branscombe. I think
you knew her in olden days ? "

Yes," said Cyril, shaking hands with Hortensia
; but for the life of him he could not be
cordial either to her or to her husband.

This is the only change you will find in
your old home," continued Mr. Branscombe
airily. " All else just the same ! Stella as good
a girl as ever and as devoted to you ; I, as much
your friend and as glad to see you as before ;
my wife your firm and constant champion : 
only a year has passed since last we met  a year
vvhich has left us all, I trust, with an added increment
of wisdom, happiness and health. Now,
my dear boy, attack those kidneys while they
nre hot else they will lose half their flavour :
and Stella, my good child, pass your future
husband the toast ! "

