CHAPTER I.

(IX THE STAGE.

For ill can Poetry express

Full many a tone of thought siiblimo
And Painting, mute and motionless,

Steals hut a glance of time.
]hut, hy the mig-hty actor brought,
Illusions perfect triumphs come ;
Verse ceases to be airy thought,
And sculpture to be dumb.'

Campbell.

Pile hud gained the wish of his heart, hut,
like many other people, he discovered that,
when gained, it proved more of a care thana
pleasure. He had plotted and planned,
he had argued and persuaded, and now at

Gaol. II. u

length his best pupil was icaHy to appear
on the operatic stance, hut nevertheless the old
Maestro was far from happy ho was haunted
by the conviction that Carlo's health would
give way, for lie knew him too well not to perceive
how sorely the events of the last few weeks
had taxed his powers of endurance. It was all
very well for him to prescribe perfect quiet when
the hours of study were over, but he knew that
at the Palazzo Forti quiet was not likely to be
found  knew that wherever he went Carlo would
be haunted by the spectre of this vanished happiness.
Often did he anathematise Captain Britton
and the insular prejudice which had cost his
pupil so dear ; often did he rack his brains for
some means of cheering the debit f an f.

Carlo was, indeed, very much altered ; for the
time he lost the boyish look which had always
before been one of his characteristics ; he lost,
too, his fresh, ruddy colour ; and, whereas he had
hitherto been habitually gay, and only upon
occasion grave, he was now only cheerful when,
by a deliberate effort of will, he forced himself
to be so. It was not in those first days cf his

trouble tluit he could all at once attain to the
serenity of a perfectly disciplined heart. lie was
human, and ho was  cry young ; the light of his
life had gone out, and he did not ahvaj's acquiesce
in the darkness,  did not, except in rare intervals
of comfort, feel anything but an aching void,
an unconquerable longing for his own will to be
done.

Not being of a self-tormenting nature, however,
he did not trouble himself much about the

no-lit

or wrong: of his feelings : as far as

O" '

possible
he ignored them, and went on deliberately
with the everyday business of the life he had
chosen. Piale worked his voice as hard as he
dared, and the professor of declamation taught
him all that he had the power to teach ; but Carlo,
altogether dissatisfied with the scanty attention
paid to acting on the operatic stage, studied his
characters with a minute faithfulness which
occupied him even in his times of so-called
leisure ; he was incessantly studying, incessantly
observing, and, after three weeks of this sort of
work, his heart began, as it were, to thaw ; the
personal grief which had held it frost-bound was

softened by the wide love of the luinuiii family,

M-liieh eauuut fail to be quickened in the heart of

anyone who truly observes life. For to observe

truly you must sympathise with those you

observe, and to sympathise with them you must

love them, and to love them you must forget

yourself. Without a deep, living sympathy the

artist surely degenerates into a species of vivid

for

To be observed when observation is not sympathy
Is just to be tortured.'

Carlo soon found the happiness which comes
to the orker who is really suited to his work.
lie learnt to be very grateful to his newly-chosen
profession, for it brought him hours of forgetfulness,
it raised him above the atmosphere of petty
misery which seemed to prevail at the Palazzo
Forti, it made him conscious that he had nut
chosen his life with headstrong blindness, but
that he had gifts for which he was resjx)nsiblc,
gifts which made the life of a singer his true
vocation. In those days of his trouble he worked
with uU his might, and the tremendous effort of
memory he had to make stood him in brood

stead, and forced him to keep his grief at arm's
length.

Pialc saw with relief that he was apparently
not in the least nervous, that lie was entirely free
at present from all fear of failure, hut the old
Maestro was too experienced a hand to imagine
that this calmness woidd last.

'You go to your ordeal with a better heart
than most debutants,' he remarked one day,
looking curiously into the face of his pupil.
But you have good reason to be cheerful abtnit
it, for you are safe to be popular.'

On the contrary,' said Carlo, with a smile.
*I am told that ten to one Comerio will organise
a cinqno, and try to get me hissed off. I'm not
at all confident of being popular, but I know that
I have in any case to be a singer.'

'There speaks the true artist,' said Piale,
with enthusiasm. 'Did I xnA tell you long ago
that Nature meant this for your calling ? '

Yes, dear Maestro,' he replied, cpiielly.
'And you were right, and I was wrong, as events
have proved.'

Piale hardly understood all that he meant ; he

looked lip ut him again with the lingering, scrutinising,
anxious gaze of a painter who takes a last
look at a finished picture.

If only your health is equal to the life,' he
exclaimed, with a sigh, for he could not but
admit to himself that during the last few weeks
there had developed in his pupil's face a look of
constitutional delicacy, which, after all, was a
natural enough inheritance to the son of Signora
Donald.

But Carlo laughed Glibly, and put the suggestion
aside.

AVliy, Maestro,' he exclaimed, ' I have never
been ill in my life ; and surely, if my sis-ter has
been able to bear the work all this time, you need
not fear for a tough fellow like me ! '

"Well, I hope you will understand as well as
Madame Merlino how to take care of yourself,'
said Piale, in the tone of a doubter.

As he walked home Carlo for the first time
studied the placards which announced a second
series of operas at the Mercadante, with the
Company of signor lerlino. On Tuesday
evening Gounod's Faii-sf, and, below, a list

of the characters :  * Faust, signor Sardoni ;
Mcfistofcle, Signer Mcrlino ; Valentino, Signer
Carle Death ; Wayncr, Signer Gomez ; ,
Madame Merlino ; Sichcl, Mile. Borelli ;
Maria, Mile. Dure' Just above was pasted a
narrow strip of yellow paper, contrasting boldly
with the pink placard, and ripon this, in large
black letters, Alas printed,

'Dj':iJin() 1)1 Signor Carlo Donative

was startled and rather ashamed to find
that the mere reading of the announcement made
him tremble from head to foot. At the next
opportunity he questioned Sardoni.

IIow do people feel at their first ajjpcar-
ancc 't ' he said, with an air of curiosity, which
was nevertheless a little anxious.

Ch ! ' said Sardoni, with his careless laugh.
Some feel as if they were going to be hung,
others as if they Avere entering one of the
chambers of the Inquisition. Comerio, I believe,
used to say that he had suffered more acutely when
lie went to be married, and Bauer declares that it
was not half so bad to him as a visit to the dentist.'

And you h ' asked Carlo. * How did }'ou feci
about it ? '

I hardly know  besides, I should be no
guide to you, for wc are as different as chalk and
cheese. I think I was in too dare-devil a frame
to feel at all.'

I can understand better to-day Ikmv Valentine
felt before his first battle,' said Carlo,
musingly.

Sardoni laughed.

*I do believe you think of your paros night
and day ! ' he exclaimed. ' I declare I'm half
afraid of you. You will 1)( so much in earnest
that you'll kill m(> in the duel scene, and that
woidd be awkward. AVliat do yon say to a
private rcheai-sal now ? It's as well you have to
fight me and not Gomez, for he hates you like
poison ; and what could be easier than to stick
you by mistake on the stage, and get you out of
his friend's way i''

What with you and I'iale it will \)v hard if I
don't turn into a coward and a valetudinarian,'
said Carlo. * The maestro does nothing but fear
the breakdown of mv hcallli, and you arc ahvavs

warning mc of hidden dangers from Comerio and
his allies.'

We only wish to instil a little prudence into
your knight-errantry,' said Sardoni.

The change of britons had been much discussed
in ]\rerlino's Company, and Carlo had
to run the gauntlet of criticism-svliile feeling
bewildered at the endless introductions to his new
companions ; he thought he should never learn to
know them all, and the fact that he was NFadame
;>rerlino's brother was not in his favour, for Anita
was not popular, and Carlo was sufficiently like
lier in face to make them prejudiced against him.
moreover, they all regarded him as a sort of
amateur, and were inclined to resent his sudden
change of profession, while Comedy's unexpected
dismissal was by some deemed unjust.

His heart failed him a little at the thought
(jf casting in his lot entirely with these not very
congenial people ; even in Domcnica Corelli he
was disappointed, she seemed to him cold and
reserved and exclusive ; he supposed that the
very (qualities which repelled him seemed to
Sardonic's ICuglish ej'cs recommendations. clarion,

the conductor, received him with mingled coldness
and anxiety ; and had it not been for
sardonic's friendship he would have been in a
most uncomfortable position. But all this improved
after the first rehearsal ; the conductor
speedily thawed, and he began to understand
better the stiff armour of propriety in which
Dominica Borelli encased herself, and the alarming
American frankness of mille. Duroc.

And so at last the great day came. Carlo
awoke to the consciousness, but was surprised to
find how indifferent he felt about it ; perhaps lie
had been through too much of late to sufltu- verj-
greatly from apprehension, or perhaps he had
not yet realised how great the ordeal would be.
In the most matter-of-fact way he inspected his
hat, hose, and shoes, the only part of his costume
which he had to provide for himself ; then,
having arranged that tlicy should be sent to the
theatre, he found himself with the rest of the
day on his hands, for IMale had given strict
orders that he was only to sing for half-an-hour
just before he dined. Suddenly he bethought
him of his old friend Florestano, and he felt a

desire that the old fisherman should witness his
first appearance ; so, taking the delighted Gigi
with him, he went down to the Pilicro, hired
a boat, and was rowed to the old fisherman's
hut. Florestano, who had all an Italian's love
of the theatre, Alas delighted and flattered at
the proposal, and they rowed back with him to
Naples, Moliere Carlo took him to the Mercadantc
that he might choose his own seat ; then, with
manhood wishes, the old boatman went off to
his Socialist club, and Carlo, having taken Gigi
home, returned once more to the Mcrcadante,
begged the keys from the doorkeeper, who was
just about to take his fiicHfa, and, locking himself
into the empty theatre, began to pace the stage,
going through, in dumb show, all that he would
have to do in the evening. Still he felt strangely
indifferent, and he began to think that his nature
nnist be a very prosaic one, not realising that
strong feeling often takes the form of numbness
for a time.

Sardoni watched him on his return with the
greatest curiosity; he practised his scales for half-an-hour,
dined composedly, read the rirco/Oy

plaj'cd * Tomhohi ' with Gigi, and did his hest
lo avert a quarrel which was brewing between
Gomez and Merlino. Finally he Event oil to
the theatre with Pialc and Enrico Hitter, and
seemed to be so nmch occupied with cheering
the old Maestro, who was in a enviable .state of
nervousness, that he had little time to think of
himself.

 Giiinto Cirh ." exclaimed the old man, 'I
woidd give all I have were this night's More
well over.'

And as they went (lon the stairs Sardoni
heard Carlo's rare but delightful laugh as he
rallied the Maestro on his depression. Apparently
l*ialc had been advised that it would
be better not to be behind the scenes, for when
(Sardoni reached the theatre he found C;irlo
alone in the dressing-room which they were
to share.

I thought I should have found your Maestro
coaching you up to the last minute,' he exclaimed
; * it is well lie has gone, or his nervousness
would have infected you. At present you
look as cool as a cucumber.'

Only metaphorically,' said Carlo, tlirowinjj;'
down the book he had bccu studying ; ' this room
is like an oven.'

You'll find that is always the Avay,' said Sardoni
: ' they bake us in summer and freeze us in
winter, and, whenever they can manage it, poison
us with bad drainage.'

The dresser began to urge him to be quick,
for as usual Sardoni was behindhand, and had
allowed barely time to scramble into his complicated
double costume before the call-boy came
to summon him. Carlo, who did not appear till
the second act, seeing how matters were, and
pitying the dresser, who only grew more stupid
the more Sardoni swore at him, offered his held),
and won the gratitude both of the Englishman
and the Italian.

Now if I'd had Gomez in here he would have
made confusion worse confounded,' said Sardoni,
rushing off in response to a second summons and
the alarming news that the overture was ended.

"When he returned at the end of the first act
he found Carlo almost ready, standing with the
patience of a martyr while the dresser put the

finishing touches to his costume. lie made a
wonderfully handsome and soldierly - looking
Valentino in his crimson velvet doublet, the
conventional amount of stage armour, and the
picturesque plumed hat which added so much
to his height.

Tan coloured tights!' exclaimed Sardoni ;
'that is an improvement on Coraerio's get-up;
he always insisted on sky-blues, in which he
looked like a circus-rider.'

The remark roused Carlo from the state of
abstraction in which he had for some time been
wrapped, and, turning round with a smile, he
asked whether the house was good, and if Sardoni
had been well received.

'The house is crammed,' replied the tenor,
but at present rather cold. Your appearance
will stir them up.'

The Signor will be a great success,' said the
dresser, already won by Carlo's patience and
courtesy.

He carries a brave enough front,' said Sardoni;
*I should not have thought you would prove
such a cool hand.'

Ah, well ! it is the first battle of the campaign,'
said Carlo, with a laugh ; ' let no man
boast till he has been under fire.'

Per Dio ! no battle, but a triumph,' said the
dresser, as he left the room. 'Best Lavishes for
your success, signer.'

Carlo thanked him, and began in a practical,
matter-of-fact way to study the construction of
the sword which had to break in two at the
challenge of Mephistopheles. Sardoni, to amuse
him, told him stories of various stage contretemps,
and was just marvelling at his companion's perfect
composure when Donati suddenly started
forward and grasped his arm.

They have begun the Kcrmessc chorus ! ' ho
gasped.

And then at last the realisation broke upon
him : he was, after all, Carlo Donati, a novice,
with a terrible ordeal before him, and failure
Avould mean ruin. All recollection of his part
seemed to leave him. He looked distracted.

Come and wait at the wings,' said Sardoni,
and take a look at the audience. You are sure
to do well. Keep up your courage, amico niio.'

If it wcro only i'ainc which depended on it,

or only myself ' he faltered, * but to fail

means the ruin of all our plan.'

You Avill not fail, you will succeed, and your
plan too ; it deserves to. Come ! '

With kindly persistence ho took his arm and
drew him towards the door. The noise without
seemed to bewilder Carlo ; the orchestra, even at
that distance, sounded deafening loud in his
ears ; the clear, joyous chorus of the citizens
seemed to mock his wretchedness ; he dragged
himself on in obedience to sardonic, who took
him to the green-room, A\hero they found Anita
and Merlino. Kite was crying, and wiping
away her tears with anxious care lest they should
make too much havoc with her rouge.

Here is my wife more upset over your (febris
than she was over her own,' said Merlino, more
pleasantly than Curio had ever heard him speak
before. ' Come, Nita, see what a fine figure ho
cuts as Valentino. You may well be proud of
him.'

Carlo glanced down at her, vaguely noticing
her white dress, her long plaited hair. She did

not make up well as Margherita, and lie dreaded
acting with lier because she recalled to him the
terrible stake for Which he was playing.

'Give me your good wishes, Nita mia,' he
said ; and then, disgusted to find how his voice
trembled, he turned away and followed Sardoni
to the wings. sick and dizzy he looked out
across the crowded stage with its skilfully-grouped
soldiers, and students, and citizens to
the section of the house which coidd be seen.
Isis breath came in short, quick gasps, and his
fingers played nervously with his sword-hilt.
Sardoni felt intensely curious to see how ho
would get through his task.

'Weather Divin ! Meat icy Diri)i /' shouted tho
soldiers, and Carlo's fingers tightened on tho
sword. lie became at last able to think of
nothing but that the chorus was drawing nearer
and nearer to an end, and that at the close would
come that dead silence in which he. Carlo Donations
cross the stage and either fail or succeed,
this dresser approached him.

The charm, signer ? You have it all right 't *

I have it, thank you,' he replied, and un-vols

II. c

clasped bis hand, where the medal burnt like
fire.

It will soon be oer,' said Sardoni, cheerfully.

I know,' he gasped, his lips almost refusing
to frame the words.

Oh,' said Sardoni, ' I meant the ordeal, not
the chorus. Look to your goal ; that's the only
Avay with a high jump or with this sort of
business.'

It was all very well to talk of looking to the
goal, but just then Carlo was hardly able to see
with his bodily eyes much less with the eyes of
his imagination. The crowded stage became
misty and confused to him ; he could no longer
distinguish the faces in the audience : they were
just a terrible, criticising, impersonal mass.

Iiiuti/ sard /' sang the sopranos.

Al j)n'ino appan'r ! ' roared the basses.

And then came the mocking strain once more
from the orchestra as the concluding bars of the
chorus were played ; and all his life long that
sweet, blithe air seemed to Carlo like the merriment
of Punchinello the clown, who jested with
an aching heart. The last chord was crashed

out, his hour was conic ! AVith a .sujDrcinc effort
lie moved forward, and, as the opening bars of
his recitative were played, walked mechanically
through the little lane which opened for him
in the stage crowd. He believed that he must
have walked slowly, but his feet seemed no longer
his own ; he felt as if he were nothing but
throbbing heart and bounding pulses, and it was
only from force of habit, after so many rehearsals,
that he moved to the right j)lacc, his eyes fixed
on the medal in his hand, which in reality he was
too much dazzled even to see.

Suddenly an inspiration came to him. Valentine,
too, would be oppressed, troubled, by the
merry-making crowd ; what did he, with his grief
and anxiety, want with all this publicity ? He
Alas Valentino  he breathed, thought, looked,
and felt like Valentino ; and in a voice subdued
and sad, but so clear and sweet that it reached to
the remotest corner of the gallery, he sang the
brief recitative, * Oh, meta niedarjUa !' as he
placed the charm on his heart, then glanced
quickly, distastefully, at the gay throng surrounding":
him.

There was a bm-st of applause which instantly
made him feel en rapport with his audience. He
advanced to greet Wagner and Sicbel, while to
Pialc and Eurico, in the theatre, and to Nita, at
the wings, there came a pang, as Valentino told
how he was sad because he was leaving his sister,
who had now no other protector ; and to many of
the audience it was comprehensible that the
new baritone's voice should tremble as he uttered
the words, * Mia )madre pia non c.'

Already he had the sympathies of the house,
but the test of his success woidd be in the song,
Dio 2*o.ssciifc,' and for this Piale waited in
trembling expectation. lie need not have feared,
however, Not one of the audience had ever
heard anything to equal the devotional fervour of
the prayer for marguerite's safe keeping, or the
manly outburst of miirliul ardour .succeeding it ;
the song, both in conception and rendering, was
perfect ; and the Italian audience, which would
not have scrupled mercilessly to hiss him had he
not altogether pleased them, broke into applause
60 enthusiastic that Piale hardly knew whether
to laugh or to cry, so great was his emotion.

The song was vehemently encored, and Carlo's
reputation was established.

Even when he was not singing his was the
figure upon which all eyes rested, for he was the
one man on the stage who was actually living his
part ; while, in the scene where he drove back
Mephistopheles with his cross-handled sword uplifted,
and sheltered the retreat of the soldiers,
his impassioned assurance that the cross was all-powerful
against evil stirred every heart.

That is a piece of symbolism quite after
Carlo's fancy,' remarked Enrico Hitter. But for
once he did not grumble at the attack on his
beloved theory of egoism. He joined in the
tumult of applause ; and when, at the close of the
act, the new baritone was called again and again
before the curtain, Enrico felt a thrill of pleasure
which he did not take the trouble to analyse.

meanwhile, Carlo was like a different being ;
he knew that he had truly found his vocation.
The music, the success, the applause, had excited
him to the highest pitch, and the sympathy he
met with front everyone astonished him. Oily
Gomez held sulkily aloof and said not a word, but

KXIGIIT-errant.

the rest were vavnl in their congratulations. fcr-
lino, with the triumphant sense of having secured
a first-rate singer at an unusually small salary,
was quite benevolent and fatherly ; while, perhaps,
Domenica ]corelli's words pleased him more
than all.

You are the first real actor I have ever sung
with, signer,' she said in her grave, Ioav voice.
You have taught me much to-night.'

Piale was at last persuaded to return to his
place in the audience ; and, as Sardoni was pretty
constantly on the stage, Carlo was left to himself
during his rather long waiting time. He was
glad to be alone ; he wanted time to realise the
great happiness which was still left for him in
his darkened life. The sense of having given
pleasure to those hundreds of people was in its
novelty almost overpowering ; and yet, in all his
excitement and happiness, there was an undercurrent
of fear, which guide him again and again
repeat the words, ' Not only with our lips, but
iu our lives.'

For though the artist has his triumphs, yet
there must always mingle with them the humbling

perception of his own incompleteness, the sense
that as yet his personal life is far from being the
true poem ' lie wishes it to be.

There were other thoughts, too, which made
him grave ; this night's work might, he hoped,
prove to be one good, decisive blow in the warfare
he was waging for Anita's deliverance, but it
also meant his more complete severance from
Francosca : with a sigh lie wondered if any news
of his success would reach lier.

All his nervousness had now disappeared, and
when once more he went to the wings his heart
beat high with hope, and the inspiriting march
roused every soldiers" instinct within him, contrasting
strangely with the Kermesso Chorus
which had so jarred upon him as lie waited for
his first entrance.

Once more his acting carried all before it.
The pathos of his happy ignorance, his eager
welcome of Siebcl, and his breathless inquiry for
larghrrita, his utter absence of suspicion, and
his martial enthusiasm, appealed to every one.
Then, when at last Siebcl contrived to hint to
him that all was not well, his agony of suspense

as he questioned the boy, and his grief and despair
when he learnt all the truth, though it
could be conveyed alone by look and gesture,
moved the people to tears.

Merlino's creditable rendering of the ' Serc-
nata ' received less notice than might have been
expected, but the audience were eagerly awaiting
the reappearance of the debutant, and the
passionate indignation of his meeting with Faust
and Mephistopheles seemed to stir all hearts.
Other britons had sung Gounod's music well,
but this man not only sang magnificently, but
transformed himself into Valentino, giving them
by his genuine dramatic talent such a notion of
the character as they never had before, and out
of a comparatively small part creating the chief
interest of the opera. Breathlessly they watched
the duel which, for once, seemed real and lifelike.
The avenger had the sympathies of the
house, and when, mortally woimdcd, he staggered
to his feet again in pursuit of his foe only to fall
a second time, there were few dry eyes in the
theatre, for into the mere dumb action lie had
infused a rare pathos, and had made them understand

the strong vitality that yet lingered in the
dying soldier.

Both the singing and the acting in the death-scene
were exceptionally fine ; the mingling of
wrath and grief, denunciation and reproachful
love, which he managed to convcj' in his last
words with Margherita, appealed to all, Avhilc at
the end he produced a novel effect. With
panting breath, and with more of sorrow than of
anger, he sang * Tu morrai tra ccnci vil. Then,
suddenly diverted from the present, he pressed to
his lips the cross on his sword-hilt which one of
this fellow-soldiers held towards him, and afterwards
turning again towards Margherita with a
look so beautiful that once seen it could never be
forgotten, sang with a depth of tenderness the
brief  ' I die for thee,' kissed her bowed head,
with a sort of triumphant resignation gasped
the last  'Like a soldier I die!' and fell back
lifeless.

Feeling much more like Valentino's ghost
than like himself, he went forward again and
again to receive the plaudits of the people ; then,
warned by Merlino tluit he would certainly b)

called for at the clofc of the opera, he flung on
his own hat and cloak over the Valentine costume,
and with an irresistible craving for fresh
air and darkness rushed from the theatre. At
the stage-door ho encountered Piale and old
Florestano.

Wliy, my friend,' lie exclaimed, turning to
the fisherman, ' you will miss the best part of
the opera.'

It's nought to me now, signor,' said the old
man ; ' it ended for me at your death. I'll take
my boat at the Pilicro and be starting home.'

I will walk part of the way with you,' said
Turbo.

And with I'iale on his other side, he strode
along, drinking down deep breaths of the cool
night air, and realising with a relief indescribable
that the horrors he had been living through
were, after all, not real.

Never had hope been so strong within him
as when he parted with old Florestano and
Walked back with Piale to the fercadanto. lie
lull left behind him despair, and gloom, and
failure  they seemed to have died with Valentine,

while Avitus liii there had arisen a buoyant
expectation  almost an assurance  that his work
would not be in vain, that Nita would be
saved. Francesca's sweet voice seemed to be
saying to him again and again, ' Pnziaiza !
Pazienza ! ' while the very first sound that
reached him on returning to the theatre was the
chorus of angels, with their ringing cr' of
E sa/ni ! ' Then, when the final chorus, ' Crkln
rmtscito,' had died away into silence, he heard
amid the clapping loud cries for ' Donati,' and
with what the Italians call ' una Htretta al ciiorc,'
he led Anita before the curtain, and once more
received the plaudits of his fellow-citizens. J]q-
hind the curtain, the very scene-shifters and
carpenters were eager to congratulate him ;
Marionii, the conductor, was ready to swear an
eternal friendship ; Merlino beamed upon him
complacently ; Piale shed tears of happiness ;
and it became evident that Carlo, for the time
being, would prove the idol of the Neapolitan
world.

Next afternoon, when by sober daylight he
read the accounts of his first appearance in

Enrico's office, his friend, with a cynical smile,
exclaimed, ' Your head will be turned with all
this triumph.'

And then suddenly there flashed upon Carlo
the vision of what he had forfeited. lie was too
simple-hearted, too genuinely honest, not to enjoy
to the full his artistic success ; but he thought to
himself there was not much fear that the man
who had lost Francesca Britton would be dazzled
by such delights as public approval can bring.

charter 11.

A Farewell.

Here once my step was quickened,
Here beckoned the opening door,
And welcome thrilled from the threshold
To the foot it had known before.

All me ! where the past sowed heart's ease.
The present plucks rue for us men !

I come back ; that scar unfeeling
"Was not in the churchyard then.'

LowKi.L.

The summer season at the Mercadante was over,
Pialc and Merlino were well satisfied with its
result, and the Neapolitans talked of little else
but their new baritone. TIk were justly proud
of him, and grumbled sorely on learning that he
was to leave them for an indefinite time. Carlo,
during the series of representations, had studied
hard, appearing as Pugoletto, as Count Rudolph,
as I'lunketto, as Guillaume Tell, as Enrieo, as
Figaro in the Barrier, as the Conte di Luna, and
twice iu his favourite character of Valentino. It

was with u feeling of deep regret that, on the
morning after his final appearance, he awoke to
the recollection that it would be long before he
should again sing to an audience of his fellow-citizens.


Gigi, who had a provoking habit of waking
very early, had for some time been arising himself
with the flowers and wreaths piled on the
table, and now, sitting on the edge of the bed,
was trying to crown himself with one of the
laurel wreaths, which continually baffled his
efforts by slipping down on to his neck.

'Never mind, my Gigi,' said Carlo, laughing.
It is too big for both of us. AVe must grow to
our crowns.'

'Did they give them yuu last night  How
lucky you are ! I wish people threw me such
nice things.'

/ throw them to you,* said Carlo, making a
long arm and tossing one trophy after another
across to the child.

Gigi laughed with delight.

Will they allude give you such a lot, do sou
fink ? ' he asked, anxiously.

No ; inukc hay Avhilc the sun shines,' said
Carlo, adroitly throwing a wreath so that it
alighted on the child's brown head. ' Crowns
and enthusiasm will not be met with out of
Xaples.'

With a sigh he recollected that he had but
one more day left in his native country'. His
heart felt Aery heavy as he wondered how long it
would be before he again set foot on Italian soil,
and he began to consider what he shoidd do with
the time which remained to him. Nita had
promised to go with her husband to see one of
his relatives at Sorrento ; therefore he was quite
free to do what he pleased. He lay musing sadly,
glancing now and then at the funny little figure
on the other bed sporting about in the tiniest of
nightshirts among the flowers and laurels.

Well,' he reflected, ' it will be a black day
for me. I'll do what I can to make it bright to
the child.'

Gigi,' he said, ' I am going to Pozzuoli
to-day. Will you come with me ? '

Gigi sprang t his feet and executed a pas seul
of ecstatic delight.

Au hour or two later they had reached the
fumiliiir little town with its domes and campaniles,
its irregular white houses, its groups of
antiquity-sellers, and its air of quiet, picturesque
decay. Carlo wandered through the well-known
streets, feeling like a ghost returned to its old home.

Every now and then he would be stopped by
some passer-by, and questioned and congratulated,
but the return made bim realise more than he
had yet done how entirely he had separated himself
from his past. Gigi was crazy to see the
boat-building, and they stood for some time on
the beach, in the very place that had been Carlo's
favourite haunt as a boy ; then they made their
way to the Villa Bruno, and wandered about in
the garden, and finally went to the house to ask
for some water for Gigi.

I made sure you were the Count, signor,'
said the peasant in charge. ' lie said he should
be coming to see the place again to-day.'

What Count?' asked Carlo, quickly.
'Count Carossa, signor. lie has been twice

to see the Villa, and they say he is sure to take it
now.'

Carlo knitted this brows.

"Why (11(1 Count Carossa clioosc to settle down
in so out-of-the-way a place ? If lie wanted a
summer house, why did he not choose one at
Portico or Posilipo ? And then, like lightning,
there flashed through his mind the recollection of
the Count's eagerness to know Captain Britton,
of his prompt acceptance of the invitation to dine
at Casa Bella, of his evident admiration of Francesca.
Even at the time he had wondered sorrowfully
whether Captain Britten's patience would
long prefer the claims of a poor and absent lover,
to the importunity of the dozens of wealthy suitors
who would doubtless besiege him with offers for
his daughter's hand.

If Count Carossa really chose that house,  a
house which in itself had no special recommendations,
 he should regard it as a positive proof that
he was in love sith Francesca. And, if so, what
might not follow ? A vision rose before him,
which would not so readily have presented itself
to an Englishman, and ho realised how attractive
the handsome, wealthy nobleman would
be to such a man as Captain Britton. He took

VOL. IT. D

up the tumbler of water which Gigi had relinquished,
and hastily drained it ; then he took the
child back again to the garden, and threw himself
down under an acacia, still with that distasteful
vision before his eyes, till a sudden
recollection of Uncle George's fine English face
came to his aid.

I am a fool I ' he thought. * "VTiatever the
Captain's faults, he would never be false to the
traditions of his country. A forced marriage
might well be among our own people, but the
English feel very differently about such matters.
Mr. Britton would do all that could be done to
prevent it, even if the Captain had been too much
taken by the title. And for the rest  should
Francesca ever wish it  whither there would
be nothing to be said. In that case '  he smiled,
because in his heart he was so perfectly sure of
her unchangeable love  ' in that case I suppose I
should wish it myself, since her happiness would
be mine.'

"With a sigh, he dismissed vague fears for the
future, but the undeniable sorrows of the present
were not so easily laid aside. Once more he lived

through this last meeting with Francesca,  once
more ho recalled all that she had said to him in
the Temple of Yenns, and then saw again in
imagination the solitary, black-robed figure on
the deck of the Pihjrim. If only he coidd
have borne it all for her ! But in that lay the
really' hard part of the lot he had chosen ;
he had deliberately made the choice which
involved suffering, not only for himself, but for
another.

It was hard, there was no gainsaying that ;
it was hard to think of leaving this dear, familiar
garden, with its lovely glimpses of Ischia and of
the blue sea in between ; it was hard to leave the
place where his happy childhood and boyhood
had been spent ; but it was far harder to think
that Francesca would be left with an aching
heart in the midst of all this loveliness, that the
very beauty of the place would but remind her of
past happiness. But then there came to his mind
one of those golden maxims of Mazzini which
had already done much to shape and colour his
life : * Ever act  even at the price of increasing
her earthly trials  so that the sister-soul imitcd

to your own may never need, here or elsewhere,
to bhish through you or for you.' At least, he
had tried so to act ; he had gone forth in a good
cause, and with a reasonable hope of success.
And yet even now his temptations were not
over, for, as he lay there in the shade watching
Gigi, who was chasing a white butterfly down
the moss - grown walk, there spoke to him the
very' devil himself, disguised under a specious
show of common-sense and worldly wisdom.

'Have you not, after all, been unintentionally
unjust ?' urged the tempter. 'Are you not
making the innocent suffer for the guilty ?
Surely there must be a screw loose there  injustice
can never be right ! A word of warning
to Merlino would have been quite enough to
induce him to send Comerio about his business.
VTiy should Francesca suffer in order to save
Nita from a disagreeable scene with her husband,
which she deserved?'

But, then,' he reflected, ' I could only have
told IMcrlino through a deliberate breach of
Nita's confidence. she would never have trusted
me again ; she would never have understood

that I longed to help lier ; Coiiierio would Iiun e
seemed her only pvotcetor ; she would huc
been driven desperate, and would have gone to
liii. Woidd not Francesca have had cause to
blush for me then? There could have been no
happiness for us bought at such a price as that 
besides, it woidd have been wilful disobedience to
what I was told to do.*

It had been a sharp encounter, but he had
worsted his foe, and was left strong in the possession
of that mens concha noli which had helped
to bear him up through Captain Brittou's insults
and remonstrances, and Uncle Guide's anger.
Moreover, there came to him one of those intervals
of comfort which make all sorrow worth
while, and he knew that it would be thus, too,
with Francesca.

San Carlo ! frau Carlo ! ' shouted Gigi, tearing
up the path towards him. ' I've caught it at
last  just you see I '

His rosy face beamed with happiness, his eyes
shone, and in his fat, little, brown hand ho
clasped the white butterfly.

A souvenir of a happy day, and the first

butterfly for our collection,' said Carlo, showing
Gigi how to dispose his treasure in one of the
orthodox little boxes.

The child threw his arms round his neck.

I do love you so ! ' he exclaimed. * There
was no collections, or treats, or anything nice at
all till you came.'

Before long, Gigi discovered that he was
hungry as well as thirsty. They had wandered
along the deserted Baja shore in search of
more butterflies, and the only place where
food was to be had was the little Hotel dc la
Heine, to which they accordingly repaired,
Gigi sturdily climbing the outside staircase and
entranced to find a number of peasants seated at
the inn table in the one available room. It was
a fcnta ; they all seemed very merry, and though
the child could hardly understand their dialect,
he liked to watch them ; and indeed, though
it made Carlo feel more than anything had yet
done that his home was indeed gone, this visit to
the wayside inn was not a little amusing to him.
The breakfast itself was odd enough to make him
laugh. First came some dubious-looking oysters

from the Lucina lake, and a long roll of sour
bread of quite a venerable age. Then came a
dish of eels and spiijaJi  the latter fairly eatable ;
this Alas followed by macaroni mashed with tomatoes,
"which was quite beyond Gigi's fastidious
American palate ; and, to crown all, there arrived
an omelette soaked in rum, and a dish full of
very grim snow to cool the cliianti.

I guess it's the queerest breakfast I ever
had,' said Gigi, at the close.

It is our last in Italy,' said Carlo. 'Come,
let us drink to our return ;' and laughingly
he clinked glasses Avitli the child, and pushing
the flask of cliianti towards the peasants,
begged them to share it. Then, to Gigi's
delight, everyone clinked glasses, and all trio
peasants were eager to drink With San Carlo;
and there was such bowing, and smiling, and
good fellowship, as he had never before seen.
AftcrA\'ards, amid much laughter, some game was
begin, and Gigi, seeing that they all seemed to bo
counting their fingers, thrust out his brown little
hand to the amusement of all present.

What is it? Whatever are the' doing?'

ho asked, laughing delightedly just because
everyone else laughed.

What I don't you know how to play iiiorK /
exclaimed Carlo : ' you shall be initiated. With
}-our permission, ladies and gentlemen, we will
join your game !'

And so the' did, and Carlo's enjoyment of
the very mild diversion Mould certainly have surprised
any onlooker who knew his story.

While they had been eating, a shabby-looking
fellow with a guitar had been playing to them,
and a hungry-eyed boy of fifteen had sung in a
hard, tired, monotonous voice, one after another
of the familiar songs of the country.

A sudden impulse seized Carlo, perhaps the
doleful, iinmelodious voice annoyed him,  perhaps
he only yielded to his natural love of giving
pleasure, but suddenly he sprang uj), motioned to
the musicians to take his place and finish the
c/nanti, and taking the guitar, burst forth into
one of his favourite national songs.

The host and hostess came running into the
room to listen. It was whispered from one to
another that the singer was loue other than

Signor Duuuti, the famous now baritone, and the
lucy peasants listened entranced. At the close
there was quite a babel of thanks and applause.

My friends,' said Carlo, ' tomorrow I leave
Italy, and I have a great wish to hear once more
Garibaldi's hymn sung as I know you can sight,
 will you join in the refrain?'

We will ! we will ! ' cried the peasants, excitedly.


He struck a few chords on the guitar, and
then broke out into the soul-stirring hymn, and
with one accord the men and women sprang to
their feet and joined in the chorus.

Gigi, not at all understanding what it Alas
that excited everyone so nmch, slid down from
his place at the long table and stood looking out
of the open window across the lovely Buy of
IJaja, then glanced buck into the room as once
more the peasants shouted the refrain. He
wondered what it coidd be that moved them so
much, wondered why San Carlo's eyes shone with
so bright a light, and why there was such a
funny thrill in his voice as he sang the final
verse uf the son'  a thrill which sent u sort of

indescribable tingle through the child's veins and
made the tears start to his eyes.

What was it all about ? ' he asked, as after a
chorus of farewells, and thanks, and good wishes
from the peasants, Carlo took his hand and led
him away from the little inn. ' AMiat could it
have been about, San Carlo, that you should all
look so eager ? '

It was about La Patria,' said Carlo, gravely.

Then that is why it made nic tingle so,' said
Gigi, with a pleased look on his comical little
face. ' I really am Italian, though Signor Sardoni
will call me a little Yankee. They was
Yankees at Salem, and I don't want now to go
back to Salem, I mean to be an Italian allusc,
and stop with you.'

What ! ' said Carlo, with a laugh, ' have
you proved faithless to your old friends the
pigs?'

I don't want pigs now that I have you,' said
Gigi. ' I hodie,  I do hoi)c they won't never send
me back to Salem ! '

Carlo laughed.

Since you are so fond of your country, it is

a shame you should leave it without seeing the
tarantella danced. Come with me, little one.'

He led the child through a vineyard, spoke
a few words to a peasant girl who appeared to
know him, and soon Gigi found himself in a
vast, grey, domed building, in which Carlo Avoko
the echoes for his amusement. It was an old
llomau ruin called the ' Temple of Mercury.'
Presently the dark-eyed peasant girl came back,
again followed by two younger and prettier
sisters, and by an old woman in a very dingy,
ragged dress, brightened by an orange handkerchief
upon her head. She carried a guitar and,
leaning against the wall, she began to chant a
monotonous air and to play in exccUejit time,
while two of the barefooted girls began to dance
the tarantella, relieved every now and then by
the third, who took her turn while one of the
beginners rested.

Gigi was delighted, and indeed the scene
would lune had charms for most people,  the
weird-looking old ruin, which echoed loudly to
the twanging guitar, the picturesque group of
peasants who had sauntered in to look and

listen, the tsloicul - lookinji musician, and. the
pretty peasant girls with their exquisitely graceful
movements and their white feet twinkling
through the mazes of the dance. Gigi clapped
his hands and danced, too, for happiness, so that
even the stolid old guitar-player nodded complacently
ut him, and the merry girls hushed,
and danced with more spirit than ever, as if
they enjoyed it with all their hearts.

The remembrance of the scene lingered long
with Carlo. For days the familiar air rang in
his ears, and the harsh voice of the old Aeolian,
us she chanted,

 la lima iiuniezu iiuire
Mamma miu viaritame tu.

slowly they wandered Lack to Pozzuoli,
passing through the familiar Piazza, pausing
beside the fountain under the trees to speak to
the philosoi)hical-looking lame beggar, who had
been a boy with Carlo, and was now eager in
his congratulations. Then they nuule their way
to the cemetery, that Carlo might visit the gray e
of his father and mother for the last time, and
place upon it some of the wreaths and flowers he

lead received at tbo ]\rcrcadante. Grig took
much interest iu this, and connected no sad
thoughts with the graveyard.

I do so like cemeteries ; I think they are
such lovely places,' he said, happily. And as
they walked between the graves he trotted along,
contentedly chanting to himself the refrain of a
game which he had learnt in America, ' Here
we come gathering nuts in May,' so that Carlo
could not help smiling, even in the midst of his
sadness.

There is one more pilgrimage I must make,'
he said, as he drove back to Naples, 'and you
shall come with me, little one,  you shall not
leave Italy without seeing Carlo Poerio's cap and
blouse.'

Who was he  a saint ? ' asked Grig.

He was a patriot, one who loved his country
and suffered for it. And they shut him up in
prison for years and years, and treated him
cruelly, and would have killed him had they
dared, only the people loved him so ranch.'

And did he get away from prison ? '

Yes, he got away. They were going to

send him to prison in South America, but he
managed to escape, and they never caught him
again. My father knew him and loved him, and
that is low I came by the name of Carlo.'

I wish ray name was it too,' said Gigi, wistfully.
' I wish they had called me after that
brave prisoner.'

Never mind ; you were named Bruno, after
my father, you know.'

'Was he a patriot?'

Yes, indeed he was.'

'But they didn't put him in prison, did they?'

'No, but they killed him  wounded him in
battle. He died for Italy.'

Gigi looked awed, and with a sort of fearful
delight gazed up at St. Elms, which they were
approaching. Carlo led him into the disused
monastery of San Martin, to the room which he
had visited, year by year, ever since he was
Gigi's age, andthere, within a glass case, they
saw the red blouse and the cap which Carlo
Poerio had worn in prison.

Gigi heaved a portentous sigh.

I wish they hadn't been so cruel to him,'

he said, wistfully. ' How ever did he hear it, do
you think ? '

He thought about freeing his country from
the bad men who were cruel to him and to the
others ; he loved Italy better than himself, and
thought only of saving her.'

'Did no one come and see how cruel they
were to him In prison?' asked Gigi. *I
wonder God didn't send some one ! '

Some one did come at last, a brave Englishman
who was not afraid to speak out and make
the world listen.'

Is that why j'ou are so fond of Englishmen?'
Carlo smiled. ' That is one reason.'
'What was the Englishman's name ?'

His name was Gladstone.'

It's an easy name. I guess I'll remember
it,' said Gigi, to the amusement of a party of
English tourists who were passing by.

It is a name very dear to Italians,' said Carlo.
But now, my Gigi, we must be going home.'

I'm glad we came to sec it,' said Gigi,
taking a last look into the glass case, 'but ita
dre'ffly shabby old coat, isn't It?'

Come here,* said Carlo, ' there is one more
tiling you must see.'

They followed the English tourists and went
out on to a little balcony which hung right over
the cliff, and from which could be gained a most
wonderful bird's eye view of Naples. The
tourists went their way, but Carlo lingered,
looking with loving eyes at that vast expanse of
white houses, with its lovely background of sen
and mountain. Posilipo to the right, Castella-mary
and Sorrento to the left, and, out in the
distance across the blue waters, Capri, made yet
more beautiful by a rainbow which seemed to
span it. IIow he loved it all ! How lingeringly
his eye dwelt on the domes and minarets below ;
how wonderful that vast subdued roar of the city
sounded in his ears ! To leave this place was, to
him, as bitter as death.

Silently he walked back with the child to the
Palazzo Forti, found that Nita was still at Sorrento,
and went to seek Enrico that he might spend his last
evening with his friend. Between ten and eleven
Enrico returned with him, and the two made their
way together up the long staircase.

I will come in and sec your friendly Englishman
once more,' said Enrico, ' and Avill say goodbye
to your sister, if she has come back.'

But Nita and her husband were still out, and
Sardoni had gone to the San Carlino ; Carlo,
however, fancying he heard his voice in the sala,
entered quickly, receiving a severe shock when
he saw that Gomez was not, as he had fancied,
telling to the tenor. Seated at the table, facing
the Spaniard, was a man with a high, rounded
forehead from which the closely-cut hair receded
so much that in profile the effect was most
curious, so large was the expanse of pallid face,
so small the expanse of dark, silky waves. The
nose Alas hooked, the expression very quiet, the
eyes cold, but capable of lighting up, for as soon
as the stranger became aware of Carlo's presence
a gleam kindled in them, and, turning to Gomez,
he said politely, but with a smile which made
Carlo shudder, ' Iray introduce me to arrival
that I may have the pleasure of congratulating
him on his great success.'

Enrico wondered whether his friend would
refuse to be introduced to Conierio. For an in-vol.

II E

stout Carlo seemed fitiirtled out of this prcseiieu
of mind, and there was a perceptible pau.c before
he determined that his only plan would be to
ignore what he really knew to Comerio's discredit
and meet him, as far as was possible, like an
ordinary stranger. For Nita's sake he must
control the anger which the mere sight of the
fellow had stirred up in his heart.

Perhaps,' said Gomez, with his usual stolid
gravity,  ' perhaps Signor Donati does not care
to be introduced to so formidable a rival.'

The speech, which had been intended to put
Carlo in a still more awkward predicament,
signally failed, for with ready courtesy he seized
it and turned it to his advantage.

As a rival I decline to be introduced to
Signor Comcrio,' he said, in the plcasautest
manner imaginable : * There can be no question
of rivalry between a veteran and a novice ; but
as a fellow-artist I am happy to make his
acquaintance.'

lie bowed. Comerio, with hatred in his heart
and a smile on his lips, bowed in reply ; the two
men exchanged a few remarks on musical matters,

and before long Coinerio took leave, owning
himself beaten. There was undoubtedly something
in Donati's imperturbable courtesy and fearless
honesty which baffled his malice.

As Sardoni had remarked, however, Comcrio
Mas not a man who could be beaten ith impunity
; he was a man who would have his
revenge in the end, even if he had to nurse it
for years, and Carlo felt this as he parted with
him, and understood why the Englishman had
spoken so strongly and had recommended caution.
His foe was no mean antagonist, there was a 'no-surrender
' look about him, a sort of indomitable
persistence stamped upon his pale face,
and the future looked to Carlo darker and
more perplexing after that meeting with his
enemy.

Enrico tried, without much success, to rouse
him from his depression, and Carlo, fully understanding
his intention, tried laird to turn his
thoughts to other matters.

Just at the last, he asked hesitatingly for the
one thing upon which he had ret his heart.

You will sometimes sec the Brittons,' he

LlbRAKY

 ILUNOJf

said, this voice trembling ever so little, ' write and
tell nie about it when you do, cnnico iiiio.'

Of course,' said Enrico, shortly. Then, after
musing for a minute over the situation, 'JIadoiiiia
Santmima ! it makes mc mad to think that both
you and Miss Britton should be sacrificed to such
a fiend as Comcrio.'

Write long, Avrite often,' pleaded Carlo.
'Tell mc everything,  the least thing about
her.'

CHAPTER III.

Francesca S Autumn.

And did sbo love him ?  What if she did not ?

Then horae was still the liorao of happiest years
Nor thought was exiled to partake his lot,

Nor heart lost courage through foreboding fears,
Xor echo did against her secret plot.

Nor music her betray to painful tears ;
Nor life become a dream, and sunshine dim,
And riches poverty, because of him.'

JkAN IX(iELOW.

Tei.i, mc all about it over again, Florostar.o ; I
think you have made a mistake in choosing to boa
fisherman. You should have been a professional
tale-teller. Tell it nic all over again
from the very beginning.'

The old fisherman pulled his red Phrygian
cap lower over his wrinkled forehead, shook back
his grizzled locks, glanced up at his brown .sail
to see that all was well, then looked across at the
sweet, eager face opposite him, and felt willing
enough to obey the request.

Neither the healthy life on board the Pilgrims

nor the weeks among the Swiss mountains which
had followed it, had been able to keep the colour
in Francosca's cheeks ; she was as pale as a lily,
and almost as fragile-looking, but the mouth and
eyes were as sweet as ever, and betrayed nothing
of her story. Lie sat in the stern of the little
fishing-boat and listened to the old man with
half-averted face while they sailed homeward,
letting one of her long white hands trail through
the water, and looking steadily down into
those dark blue depths as once more Florestano
repeated the story of Carlo's first appearance.


Gniii J)io ! lie is good as a piece of bread I '
exclaimed the old fisherman. ' "NVlio but he would
have thought of coming all the way out here to
fetch a shabby'' old fellow like me, and giving mea
fine place at the theatre, where I could see as
well as those who carry a heavy purse, and are too
fine to walk on foot, and spend their days in idleness
? Tie came, signorina, bringing with him
the little boy, his nephew.'

Was he looking well ?' asked Francesca, still
keeping her face turned away.

Ehhene, signoritia ! he was g-raA'c and quiet,
doubtless thinking of (he evening, and now I
come to think of his face, I remember it was
browner than it was wont to be ; lie lead lost his
colour, being slit up so much studying.' Flo-resting
could hardly help smiling to himself,
because he thought he had given these reasons
with such an admirable air of conviction, ' But
except for that he was just like himself, signorina,
just like. lie would take an oar on the
way back to Naples as if wo were back in the old
times, and I was rowing him to school once more,
as I did for many a sear in the warm weather.
And then, when in the evening I saw him stand
on the stage, with all the people praising him,
and he looking so fine in his velvet dress and his
sword, then I did feel proud to think that only
a few hours back he had taken my oar from
me lliat I might rest a bit. lie couldn't have
treated me better, signorina, if I'd been his own
father.'

'And the people applauded him a great deal?'
asked Francesca.

Capper ! you may believe me, signorina, the

noise made my head ache for days after. How
he bore it I don't know, hut afterwards, when they
called for him, he came before the curtain looking
as modest and natural as if lie were but just an
ordinary man in his Omen home, and bowed as
though he wore pleased that wo had found pleasure
in this acting. And when I went to thank
him and take leave I came upon him just at the
stage-door, and he said he wanted a breath of
fresh air, for the theatre had been nearly as hot
as the crater of Vesuvius ; and he walked with me
down to the Piero till I could have thought he
had been a boy again ; he seemed so like himself
that I coidd hardly believe 'twas he that had been
Valentino a few minutes since, with all the house
crying over his death.'

Then he acted very well ? '

He just made it real, ignoring Oran Dio !
I can never forget his face as he drove back the
devil with the cross, stepping out boldly before
the soldiers as though lie feared nought. 'Twas
fine to see the old devil cringing and backing !
I can tell you, signorina, that I came away that
night believing in the old faith once more.

There's more in the Cross than they would
wish to have us think down at our chin in
Naples.'

Francesca thought slip would have liked to
toll lier father that story, but Carlo's name had
never passed between them since her betrothal
had been ended, and she knew that she Mould
not be the first to break the silence.

Comforted and yet saddened by her talk with
the old fisherman, she was set down on the beach
and made her Avay through the vineyard to the
familiar olive - garden, where she found Sibyl
helping two or three peasant women to gather the
olives. There was something which soothed her
in the silvery shade of those gnarled old trees ;
she sat down on the grass, leaning against one of
the terraces, and watched Sibyl's little blue-clad
figure flitting hither and thither, and the peasants
in their sombre stuff gowns and gay handkerchiefs
tied over their heads. Under one of the
trees a baby had been laid on a tattered old
shawl, while close by its mother, busy with her
basket of olives, sang a quaint little Neapolitan
song to keep it quiet. The air was quite familiar

to Francesca, but slice had never before cauf;ht
the words, and listened now attentively as the
mother sans : 

A/i ! foiii' ( hera la mia Diinha,
Quando 2>n)la e quando ride,
Quando vico ella deride,
I soitpiri del mio cor.
Qnestn (jiylio inamorato
Jiiinba mia chi f hai la dato ?
O calico f el donava
L'innocenza del tuo bel cor.
Bella Bimha ! Bella Bimhu .'
Tu sei r angelo cF amor.'

The chorus, with its light-hearted repetitions
of ' Bella Biinba,' brought the tears to Francesca's
cj-es, but the baby, tired of lying on the
ground, began to crv, and with the natural instinct
of helpfulness, which was perhaps her
strongest characteristic, Francesca sprang up and
begged leave to nurse it. Then, as she paced to
and fro with her little white-capped charge, hushing
it to sleep with ene of Carlo's songs, she
realised as she had never done before that to tend
the children of others is the sacred right of every
childless woman ; and somehow her world, which
lead seemed just before so hopelessly narrowed,

broadened out again, and looked less dark and
dreary.

Presently the peasants finished their work
and went away. Francesca g-ave the sleeping
baby to its mother, and, taking Sibyl's hand,
strolled homeward.

Why, who can be here ? ' exclaimed Sil)yl,
some one talking with father. Look ! '

Francesca's heart leapt into her mouth, for
she caught sight through the trees of a panama
hat exactly like Carlo's. In an instant a hundred
\ild hopes and conjectures had passed through
her mind, to be all too quickly dispelled, for as
they drew nearer Captain Britton came down the
path to nuet them, and she saw that the panama
hat belonged to Count Carossa. For a moment
she could not help hating him ; what right had
he to take Carlo's house, to dress like him, to
walk down that path which was for ever associated
in her mind with the day of her betrothal ?
It was all .she could do to greet him as usual.

I find Count Carossa is going in to Xaples
this evening to the ball,' said Captain Britton,
so I have offered him a seat in our carriay-o.

What time had you thought of starting,
Fran ?'

Francesca had thought of going early and
returning early, but quickly realised that Count
Carossa would probably stay late, so she proposed
that they should go an hour later than she had
first intended, and, without being discourteous,
managed to seem perfectly indifferent as to the
arrangement. The Count was piqued by her
manner ; she was the first pretty foreigner he
had ever met who was not willing to flirt with
him, and he Alas determined to win her. She
was obliged to promise him a dance, to stand by
and look polite while her father invited him to
dinner that evening, and later on even to accept
some white azaleas which he brought with lira
from the Villa Bruno, not at all understanding
that the mere sight of them would recall to her
the imago of her absent lover, of whose existence
the Count had no idea.

lie was a good talker, and the Captain was
delighted with him, while for the present he was
very willing to spend most of his energies on his
host, leaving Francesca unmolested, and enjoying

the sight of her as she sat at the head of the
table, looking exquisite in her white dress and
with the flowers nestled against her snowy neck.
Something had brought a faint tinge of colour to
her cheeks ; perhaps it was that the Count had
asked a few innocent questions as to the former
inhabitants of the Villa Bruno, or perhaps it Alas
vexation at the thought that she had been obliged
to accept his flowers. She felt certain that her
cousin Kate would have managed to avoid accepting
them, would have framed some quick and
dexterous reply, or thought of a good excuse.
But no way of escape had suggested itself to her :
to have refused them point-blank woidd have
been both rude and prudish, and though she
disliked the Count, yet she was too innately
courteous to tolerate for a moment anything
which would needlessly wound the feelings of
another. And then, with a sudden pang, some
Italian phrase spoken b}' the visitor recalled Carlo
to her mind, and lie remembered hoar short a
time it was since he had sat in that very place
at the table, and the tears would well up into her
eyes. She hud become of late, however, rather

all adept in the matter of manuring tears. sic
knew to u nicety how far they might rise without
being noticeable, and both to her father and to
the Count she seemed a very self-possessed Kettle
hostess, only intent on making everything easy
and pleasant.

The Captain had with a ponderous effort
turned the conversation from the Villa Bruno,
but after a while the Count innocently reverted
to it.

I suppose you, like all the rest of the world,
were taken by surprise by Signior Donati,' he
remarked, readjusting his table-napkin, which
had slipped out of his coheir, and failing to note
the expression of the Captain's face ; * they say
no one had any notion that he sang at all, so
strictly had I'ialo kept him.'

lie never sang out of this own house,' said
Captain Ihitton, trying desperately to make his
Aoicc and manner natural, and not daring to look
at his daughter. * But I have heard him sing
there. There was a song of IMale's which housed
to sing ; l*iale has written some very pretty
things, and this had the merit of having English

words. Let mc sec, wliiit was it culled, Fnui-

CCtsCU ? '

lie lead seldom felt more flmiied and uncomfortable
; he fancied the Count could read
all that was passing in this heart, and in despair
lie tried to turn the conversation to Pialc's music
and appealed for help to Francesca, though he
knew that it was cowardly to do so.

It was called " Love for a Life." The words
were Tennyson's,' said Francesca. ' Do you read
English at all ? ' she asked, turning to the
Count.

Then, as he began to lament his ignorance of
her native language, her heart, which had been
beating wildly while she replied so composedly' to
her father's question, grew quieter, and even felt
a little glow of justifiable satisfaction.

I managed that rather well,' she thought to
herself.

Captain Britton, grateful for her help, and
admiring her calmness all the more because it
contrasted with his o-sni blundering speech,
seized the next chance for intervening with his
favourite story of how he had met the Laureate at

lord Blainton'.s, and by the time that was ended
Francesca was able to leave the dining-room.

After all,' .she thought to herself, ' to hear
his name is better than silence. If father had
not been there, if I had been just alone with someone
Who didn't know, it woidd have been a sort
of comfort even to hear him spoken of. I wonder
if the Comet went to hear him ? I wonder if he
really admired him ? I wonder if he will perhaps
talk about him at the ball to-night ? I

hope he will, and yet and yet I half fear

it. Could I possibly manage my face ? If ho
praised him could I look just as if Carlo were any
ordinary singer ? If he found faint could I help
growing angry ? Why,' she laughed to herself,
but with more of sadness than mirth ; ' Carlo's
turning actor has forced me to turn actress !
Oh, my love ! my love ! I wonder where you
are ! I wonder what you are doing I I wish,
oh, how I wish wc weren't going to this ball
to-night ! To bo forced to dance with a heartache
is about as pleasant as to be forced to eat
with a headache.'

But Francesca changed her mind when she

entered the ballroom an hour or two later, for
the very first person she caught sight of was
Enrico Ritter. Hitherto, to tell the truth, she
had rather disliked Enrico, had even been a
little jealous of him, grudging the time which
Carlo spent in his company's and resenting his
habit of sending long days at the Villa Bruno.
Now he seemed to her the only man in Naples
worth looking at, and she thought how delightful
his blunt, uncomplimentary, almost
rude manner would be after Count Carossa's
veiled love-making, which, with its familiar
Italian, would seem to her like a horrible
parody of Carlo's.

When she came into the room Enrico was
at the far end talking to some Americans whom
Francesca knoNV by sight. she felt idiot
certain that he saw her, and waited in trembling
hope for his approach ; but he never came,
and before long she was surrounded by a little
throng of worshippers, and her card was speedily
filled. Alien Count Carossa had written his
name there was only one vacant place for the
wait which followed the cotillon.

VOL. II, !'

Will you not let mo have this one, too ? '
he asked, beseechingly.

She avoided his eager, brown eyes, and
glanced quickly in Enrico's direction. lie was
making one of those profound, awkward-looking
boats of his to a pretty little Neapolitan, and
she felt a conviction that he did not mean to
ask her to dance. It was hard to be avoided by
the one man in the room whom she desired
to talk to, and persecuted by the one she most
wished to avoid! She felt angry with Enrico
and angry with the Count, and though she
seldom asserted herself her spirit rose now, and
she said, quietly, 

Thank you ; I shall not dance after the
cotillon.'

You are quite right ; it is a tiring affair.
But you will permit me to sit out with you,
signorina ? '

I wish his eyes were green, or gray, or
anything but brown,' thought Francesca to
herself, naughtily, ' I wish he was French, or
German, or anything but Indian ! * Then aloud,
No, I don't think I shall make any promises.

But perhaps I shall sit out With the partner I
happen to choose in the cotillon. Wc will sec
how things arrange themselves.'

She smiled, and there was the least little
touch of coquetry in her manner, for which she
hated herself. But, then, what was a poor girl
to do in such a predicament ? Must she throw
away her sole chance of hearing about her lover
for the sake of sitting out with his rival ? If
the Count was conceited enough to think that
she meant to choose him in the cotillon it was
surely no fault of hers ; but he evidently did
think so, and she somehow felt vexed with herself,
and yet was unable to see how she could
have acted differently'. She foresaw a time of
trouble, since men would be provoking enough
to fall in love \\\{\i her face, and it was clearly
impossible that she should go about the world
labelled with the notice,  ' This is to certify that
the heart of Francesca Britton is given to one
Carlo Donati, and therefore no lovers need
apply.'

However, she had not much time to think
over the difficulties in abstract, she was obliged

to (lance, and smile, and listen to dozens of pretty
speeches, and-vvlicn most bored by them to reflect,
]']nrico is here, and will certainly know all about
Carlo. Enrico is here, and there is yet one
chance of a talk with him.'

The excitement and the eager hodie made her
happier than she had been for a long time, and,
moreover, the mere exercise was doing her good
and bringing the colour to her cheeks ; although
she had hated the thought of the ball beforehand,
she was too young and too genuinely fond of
dancing not to forget her grief every now and
then, and really to enjoy if much as Sibyl might
have done.

All this time Enrico had watched lur critically.
At first he had intended to ask lur to
dance, and to write and give Carlo a faithful and
particular account of every word she had said.
]put when he saw her surrounded by admirers,
and dispensing her favours with the unconscious
dignity of a littk> queen, then something
like resentment began to stir in his
heart, and he wondered whether after all she
deserved Carlo's devotion, whether it was even

remotely likcl} that she wouhl be faithful to
lira.

Tie was angry with lier for looking so lovely,
and for smiling so charmingly ; with all his
philosophy he never once asked himself the
question, how was she to help it ? He was
angry with her for being admired by other men,
and angry With her for looking happy Avhile she
danced, and he hugged his old conviction to his
heart  * There is no such thing as love in the
world ! all is selfishness under the sun.' And
yet, though he professed to hold firmly to his
creed, he longed to-night to see it falsified ; he
would have liked, at an' rate, to think that his
friend and the beautiful English girl were those
strange exceptions which, according to the proverb,
prove the rule.

At length the cotillon was danced, and tlu
time arrived when Francesca, the acknowledging
belle of the evening, was seated in the middle of
the room with a mirror in her hand, while those
who were eager to be her partners went up oneby
one behind her, and looked over her shoulder
so that their faces were reflected in the glass. If

she refused them, she threw lier handkerchief
across the mirror; and it seemed to-night as if
no one pleased lier, for one after another was
rejected, and Enrico was enchanted to see the
look of confidence with which Count Carossa had
approached her, changed to indispensable chagrin
as he retired into the ranks of the refused.

Go and try your chance,' urged a voice in
Enrico's heart. But he reflected that it was
well enough to see other men rejected, but not
so pleasant to be refused oneself.

'For Carlo's sake,' urged the voice; 'it is
your sole chance of talking to her.'

Much against his own inclination he moved
forward and looked grimly down timon the
mirror. His face was so funny a contrast to
all the worshipping faces which had preceded
it, that Francesca could have found it in her
heart to laugh at it had she not been so happy
and relieved. To the astonishment of everyone,
including Enrico himself, she made the sign
of acceptance, and with the proud sense of possession
his good-humour returned, and he was
ready to believe nothing but good of her.

I thought 5'ou Micro never coming,' she said
under her breath, when talking was possible.

Did you wish for me ?' he asked in his cold,
rather sarcastic A'oice. * I thought you were far
too well provided with cavaliers to care for so
indifferent a dancer.'

You ought to have known that you were the
one man in the room I should care to talk Avilh,'
she said quickly, stung by his tone, and bj'- the
perception of what he must have thought of her.
But the next moment she half regretted her
words, for Enrico's whole face changed and he
lifted his eyes to hers with the look in them
which she could not bear to see, save in the e'cs
of the man she loved.

I thought you would tell me of Carlo,' she
said, determined to speak out boldly, though she
would have preferred a more quiet place for the
talk. * Have you heard from him ? '

'Three times,' said Enrico, recovering his
usual manner.

Ah ! So often I ' she exclaimed, with mingled
jealousy and pleasure in her tone.

They were interrupted for a minute or two by

the necessity of attending to the dance. In the
next interval lie saw that the jealousy had given
place to unclouded satisfaction, and it was almost
in the tone of her old childish days that she said,
Oh, you will tell me all about him, will you
not ? You are his friend, I know, and for his
sake you will still be mine, I hope.'

Indeed, I will,' he said ery kindly, ' if you
ill let me. You never liked me in the old days ;
I daresay I was very disagreeable.'

No, it was my fault,' said Francesca. ' I
was so jealous of j'ou because you took uj) the
time, and I was afraid he cared for you more
than for me, but now  but now I am not jealous
any more.' She laughed a little, and glanced up
at him with a humorous look in her dark-gray
eyes.

T would do anything to serve you,' s;iid
iMirico. ' I cannot help still thinking of you as
one who belongs to Carlo, and for that reason
your slightest wish shall be a command tome.


Thank you, you are so kind ; you understand
80 well, Eurico,' she replied, quickly adopting the

tone of brotherly and sisterly intimacy which he
had carefully instilled into his last remark. She
was very grateful to him for putting in that
saving clause, 'for that reason and dismissed
for ever from her mind the fear which had
seized her not long since that Enrico was going-over
into the tiresome ranks of her adorers, lie
was going to do no such thing ; he was going to
be to her just the strong, kind, brotherly friend
she needed.

I am glad it is over,' she exclaimed, as the
music ceased, * do let us get somewhere away
from all these people. Are you engaged for the
next dance ? '

'No,' said Eurico, hardly knowing whether
to be amused or charmed by her unconditional
frankness.

Ah ! I am so glad, for I saved it on purpose,
and made Count Carossa so cross. Please, please
sit out with me somewhere and tell me about the
letters.'

Enrico in his secret soul felt a thrill of pride
as he reflected that the belle of the evening
hud besought him to stay with her. Then all

selfish thoughts faded away in admiration of the
love wliicli made shy, timid Francesca so innocently
bold, so delightfully unlike the girls whom
he was in the habit of meeting in society.

He led her into the conservatory, which was
prettily hung with Chinese lanterns, and here, at
the far end, they discovered a charming little
nook, With a rustic seat half hidden by ferns and
flowering plants.

I will send you the letters to read if 3'ou
like ; I could alway's do that,' began Enrico.

Xo,' she said, with a sigh, ' I don't think it
would be right, for my father made me promise
not to write to him or receive letters from him,
and that would seem like a sort of subterfuge.
But it can't be wrong to hear about him now that
we have met at last. Where did he write from ?'
The first letter was from Malta ; he seemed
fairly cheerful, made great fun over the colourless
island, and grew very patriotic over his comparisons.
I am afraid he feels his exile a great deal.
You see he is such a thorough Italian ; all his
interests are bound up with the country. Then,
too, he was a good deal pained because those idiots

down at the Circle of Social Instruction  the
club, you know, in wliicli he had always taken so
much interest  quite misunderstood his turning
public singer, upbraided him With his desertion
of the cause  much they knew about it!  and
called him frivolous and self-seeking, just as if
They were a parcel of English Puritans, if you
will pardon the comparison.'

Francesca sighed. 'It seems as if all the
world were against him.'

But that is what such knights-errant must
expect,' said Enrico.

I can't see why,' said Francesca, sadly ; * of
course they would expect the evil to be arrayed
against them, but when their fellow-soldiers turn
upon them that seems hard. Still I think he was
prepared for it ; he counted the cost before he
set out,  not that that makes it any easier to
bear.'

'He wrote again from Gibraltar, where the'
seem to have had a busy time,' continued Enrico ;
and then again he wrote on board the steamer
and posted the letter in England, so they are
safely there, though the letter, being posted on

lauding, gave no particulars as to his first notions
of the country.'

Francesca was silent for a minute, the bare,
dr' facts were so unsatisfying, she wanted to
know all the little details, she longed so terribly
to sec the letters themselves. Enrico partly
understood, but foimd it impossible to come to
her help. lie had had no idea that it would have
proved so hard to give any coherent account of
his friend's long letters. While he was racking
his brains for some quotable sentence, he became
aware of voices at a little distance beyond their
leafy screen ; he heard the word ' Douati,' and
then, as the speakers drew nearer, the whole
conversation became distinctly audible.

AWll, his imclo is furious about it,  disowned
him on the spot.'

You mark my words, Bahia, there's a woman
ill the case. For all Donati's high reputation I
w ould stake my life on it. These fellows who setup
for being moral, if once they are touched, goto
greater lengths than we slu)uld.'

For the matter of that,' remarked the other,
it is likely enough he should turn singer With

siicli a voice ; magnificent ! the finest baritone I
ever heard.'

Corpo del iliarolo ! you are as innocent as a
child, my friend ! "Would a man throw over a
fortune, and a good match, and a profession to
boot P Besides, sec how quickly it Alas all
arranged ! One week we were congratulating
him on being an avcocato, the next this fair unknown
had lured him on to the stage.'

AVliat about a match ? I heard nothing of
that.'

I assure you I have it on the best authority
that he was betrothed to Miss Britton, and left
her for the sake of the fair unknown.'

Capper ! This is truly a chapter from a
romance ! Let mc see, who was there in
Merlino's Company ? The little l)c Caisne, do
you think P or Domenica Borelli ? '

The reply was inaudible, there came a sound
of laughter, then the voices died away in tho
distance.

Enrico had been on the point of dashing forward
to put a peremptory stop to the judicious
gossip, but the recollection of Francesca's prcs-

cncc made him pause. To discuss the matter
before her was out of the question, and even
had she not been there it would have been almost
impossible to interfere to any purpose, so cunningly
were the falsehoods interwoven with the
truth. lie was so angry that at first he could
not spare time to look at his companion, but
when the speakers had left the conservatory he
turned to Francesca, an indignant exclamation
trembling on his lips. The exclamation was
never uttered, however, for the sight of her face
almost choked him ; it was bathed in tears, of
which she seemed unconscious, for she made no
effort to hide them ; her hands were tightly
locked together, and the tears rained down over
her lovely pink and white cheeks. She had not
stirred since their conversation had been interrupted,
her face was still turned to his, just as
it had been when he told her of Carlo's letters.
Enrico longed to rush after the slanderers and
crack their skulls together ; he had never in his
whole life felt so savage and yet so tender, so
eager to comfort and yet so conscious of his own
unfitness.

Don't heed those brutes,' he entreated.
After all, you know every public character
is exposed to this sort of thing, and really,
upon my soul, if one-were not so angry one
would be obliged to laugh at such an absurd
notion.'

Francesca did not speak, but she was recalled
to the present, and made an effort to stop
crying.

Enrico thought she had never looked so
lovely before, and felt that her tears were
making sad havoc of his philosophy, and that,
in self-defence, he must do what he could to
check them.

'See,' he began, in his kindest voice, 'if
you go back to the ball-room presently, and
people notice that you have been crying, it
will make an opening for more of this infernal
gossip.'

Yes,' she said, with a quiver in her voice
which made his heart ache, ' I had not thought
of that ; ' and hastily drying her eyes, she raised
them to his, all bright and shining, and pathetic
as the eyes of a little child in trouble.

Do you think it shows much now 'i * she
asked.

Enrico was no lady's man, he neither perjured
himself to please her nor evaded the question
by a compliment, as many would have
done. He looked gravely into those dark, gray
and critically at the wet lashes fringing
them.

It does rather,' he said ; ' but we need not
go back yet, they are still dancing.'

How sad the music sounds ! ' she said, with
a sigh ; ' and yet it is a waltz I used to be so
fond of. It seems as if those hateful words had
taken the sweetness out of everything.'

Don't think of them ! ' exclaimed Enrico.
'After all, you know it is but the way of the
world. People would be dull if they did not
invent little scandals of this kind. Carlo has
done an altogether unprecedented thing, has
actually loved his sister better than himself;
but the world can't look into his heart, and
naturally, after its invariable custom), credits
him with low motives.'

It is just that which makes it so hard

said Francesca. ' I didn't think tlioy could
have been so cruel ; people, too, who must
really have known him. How can they  how
can they think such things? All his life gives
the lie to it ! '

There was a silence ; the music rang out
more distinctly ; it seemed to say to Francesca :
After all, 'tis a hollow kind of merriment, but
we are bound to go on. The fiddler is longing
to get home to his dying wife, but he must play
on to the end! And the dancers have aching
hearts, but they must dance, dance and be
merry. This is pleasure, you know, the world's
pleasure ! '

You see,' said Enrico, ' the world has
always been very kind to you, and so you have
been deceived. People naturally make much of
you, and that, of course, is pleasant.'

I don't think I can ever enjoy anything
again,' said Francesca, with the firm conviction
of two-and-twenty that the particular cloud in
its sky is going to prove more powerful than
the sun.

But there was, nevertheless, some truth in

VOL. II. Q

lier remark. She would enjoy again, but
never in the same way; she would enjoy as a
woman, but never again as a happily-ignorant
girl.

Everything seems hollow and mireal,'
she went on ; 'I have believed in it all so
much ! '

*Yoii must not let me convert you to my
creed,' said Enrico, with a smile, * or how could
I ever face Carlo? It is an odd coincidence
that while you, through this business, get your
first glimpse behind the world's scenes, and are
disillusioned, I, in watching you and Carlo, have
felt almost ready to throw over my pet theory
of universal egoism.'

'What arguments you and Carlo used to
have in the old days,' said Francesca, recovering
herself, and feeling much cheered by his words.
Then, with a little smile, she added, ' I have
been talking just like a horrid old woman we
used to know in England. I wished her a
merry Christmas one day, and she shook her
head and looked so glum as she grumbled out,
Mcmi Christmas indeed ! there's no merriment

in tlii.s M'orld." I do hope I shan't g-row like
her.'

Eurico hiug-hcd.

I shall tell Carlo that story when next I
write. You will not allow me to send any
message from you I suppose ? '

No, I can't do that,' she sighed ; ' he knows
I can't. But oh, Enrico, it is such comfort to
know that you write to him. Write often 
promise to write often.'

Once again they talked over all the news in
Carlo's letters, then, leaving the flowery retreat,
made their way back to the crowded rooms.
Francesca was speedily claimed by her next
partner, and Enrico leant meditatively against
the wall, watching the gay scene, and musing
over that pathetic complaint which the girl had
made to him, ' They have taken the sweetness
out of everything.'

Years after, if any one had asked him what
was the most touching sight he had ever seen,
there would have risen in his mind a picture of
that gaily-lighted ballroom, and of Francesca's
sweet, sad face, upon which, spite of all her

efforts, there yet Hn<>ered the traces of tears.
Again and again she was whirled past him, her
feet flew over the ground, hut her face always
bore the same expression, and he knew well that
it was only a sense of duty Which kept her up,
and that she danced with a sore heart.

CHAPTER IV.

IX KXGLAXD.

And hast thou chosen then ? Canst thou endure
The purging change of frost and calenture ;
Accept the flick recoil, the weary pain
Of senses heightened, keener nerves and brain-suffer
and love, love much and suffer long 
And live through all, and at the last be strong?
******

Thou shalt need all the strength that God can give
Simply to live, my friend, simply to live.

On Art as an Ain in L>/eY. W. II. Myers.

Morning News Morn in g Neics ! Shocking
murder at Montfort I ' This cliccrfiil ,
In the harsh shout of a newspaper
boy, awoke Carlo, one morning early in the
autumn, to the recollection that he was in England.
He started broad awake In a moment
from dreams of Francesca and Casa Bella, and
with a pang of realisation, to which he was now
too well accustomed, knew that he was altogether
parted from her, and looked with blank,

hopeless, miserable depression round the 
hotel room.

It was one of those narrow, gloomy
places often met with in inns ; at the foot of
this own narrow iron bedstead was a second
just as narrow, and though the general impression
conveyed was of meagre bareness in
respect to the furniture, yet one felt cramped
and oppressed by the proportions of the
room.

Soles and whiting ! soles and whiting ! ' sang
a nasal voiced fishwomanin the street. And then,
after an interval, came a cry so extremely comic
that Carlo burst out laughing.

Are you awake, San Carlo ? ' exclaimed
Gigi, appearing, with the suddenness of a Jack-in-the-box,
from beneath the clothes on the
other bed.

Ginato C'ulo ! what can the Ionian be calling?'
said Carlo. 'Gigi, if you love me, jump
out of bed and see I '

Gigi nothing loth sprang up and darted to
the window.

It's black things in a basket,' he announced.

* Ob, now I can hear what she says ;
it is " Pickled cockles ! pickled cockles ! " '

By the time the cry had died away in the
distance Carlo was grave and depressed again,
he tried to live through his dream once more
and to forget the distasteful reality, while all
the time he was listlessly watching Gigi in the
performance of his toilette, a sight which might
well have tickled the gravity of an accustomed
observer. Necessity bad taught the little fellow
to be far more handy than most children of his
age, and now that Carlo had instilled into his
mind the duties of cleanliness and godliness, his
business-eke way of setting to work was most
edifying, beginning sedulously with soap and
water, and ending with the Paternoster which
Carlo had taught him in Italian.

The place seemed to grow less desolate as the
child very slowly and deliberately repeated the
familiar words, and Carlo's heart grew lighter.
True, lie had as yet made no way at all with
Anita, and the future still looked black and mi-promising,
but at any rate Gigi was the better
for the change of britons, and That rifht had

he to fear for the result of work which he had
begun in obedience to a direct call ?

Pcrciocche tuo e il rcyno, c la j)o(ciiza, e hi
flora, in sempUcnio. Amen,' repeated Gigi ;
then springing to his feet, and relapsing into
English, 'May I go down and play, San
Carlo?'

Carlo patted the little brown head.

Vh}', yes, to be sure, old man, take your
soldiers and play in the coffee-room. I'll be
down directly ? '

Once up and dressed he began to look at life
from his customary cheerful standpoint, and,
with a curiosity which was almost boyish, drew
up his blind and looked eagerly forth, for this
was, in reality his first glimpse of England,
since they had landed quite late on the previous
evening, in darkness and confusion indescribable.

 Capper ! what a land of chimney-pots!*
was his first exclamation. And in truth the
prospect from the window was one which to a
Neapolitan would seem most extraordinary. The
room was at the back of the hotel, and on the
foi-th storey ; it overlooked a narrow by-street,

and thousands of roofs, and from every roof there
rose these extraordinary-looking chimneys; stout,
red ones, tall and attenuated gray ones, square
ones, with blackened tops, and here and there a
grisly-looking cowl, whirling and creaking in
the most gruesome way. The sky was gray and
leaden, a strong west wind was blowing, and
Carlo had not stood many minutes at the open
window before he found that his linen hud
suffered severely from the smuts.

"What a melancholy - looking place ! ' he
thought to himself ; ' if I stay looking at it
much longer the blue devils will get the better
of me again, and that doesn't pay.'

He turned away, whistling ' dolce Napoli,'
and reflecting that he would have some fun With
Sardoni over his first impressions of England.

Sardoni was down before him, and was half-away
through a substantial breakfast of ham and
eggs, which reminded Carlo of the English
breakfasts that Captain Britton had always
refused to give up.

You're late,' said the (nor, nodding to
him. ' Had you come down a few minutes ago

you would have witucsaed a most intcrcsiiug
scciic'

I am late because I have been admiring the
beautiful view of chimney-pots from my room,'
said Carlo ; * you should have prepared me for
them, they quite took my breath away. "What
with the chimney-pots, and the pickled cockles,
and the soles and whiting, I'm already quite
learned in English life.'

San Carlo, mayn't I have some of that yellow
stuff h ' pleaded Gigi, who had been watching
Sardoni's operations with hungry eyes.

Yes, if you like ; wluit is it ? '

Man alive ! * cried Sardoni, laughing heartily,
do you mean to say that you never saw marmalade
! No Englishman dreams of breakfasting
without it. There ! ' he almost emptied the pot
on to his friend's plate, ' eat and be thankful,
ami own yourself a convert.'

Delicious stuff I ' Humbled (jigs, with his
luuuth very lull, and heaving a sigh of satisfaction.
Then, as his Elders laughed, he added
fervently, 'I should likes to be allude eating
sweet whiffs.'

What luis been hiippciiing- r* ' asked Carlo,
wliQii the child had finished his breakfast aud
had gone back to his toys.

Well, Marionii has been tearing his hair a
little, and ]\Ierlino has been swearing much,
lie got out of bed-with the wrong foot foremost,
and I believe there is something gone
amiss with the manager of the theatre here,
or the orchestra or something. I really didn't
hear the rights of it; all I know is that he
ramped and roared a good bit, and that it
ended with exit Marionii, left wing, tearing his hair,
and exit Merlino, right wing, in a vile temper.'

'The fact is he tries to do too much,' said
Carlo. ' A man can't be in himself impresario,
singer, and business agent all at once. It's more
than human nature can stand.'

Certainly more than Inunan temper can
stand,* said Sardoni. ' However, he is not likely
to have more officials than he can help), for he
knows well enough that this English tour is a
frightful risk. And for the matter of that you
are worth ten officials to him : you seem to mc
to take pleasure in being his slave.'

I have liked him much better since I worked
with him,' said Carlo. ' There is a sort of rough
honesty about him, after all. I fancy that with
a different education he might have been a fine
character.'

There's no dcu}-ing anyhow that at present
he's a fine tyrant,' said Sardoni. * It's my belief
that you would find excuses for the devil himself,
Valentino ! '

Valentino ' had become Carlo's nickname
with the company. One evening at Naples there
had been a discussion in the green-room about
an article in some journal on the merits of the
new baritone, in which his ' Valentino ' in particular
had called forth the warmest praise, and
was termed ' a new creation.' Gomez, who
never lost an opportunity of making himself
disagreeable to the new comer, had turned to
him with his contemptuous smile and said, 

I congratulate the Signor Valentino, and
it is certainly true that he plays the part as
though ho were to the manner born.'

To Carlo and Sardoni, who were the only
ones present who were capable of understanding

the speech, a hundred hateful iiuicndoes were conveyed
in look and tone ; but Io others caught
up the idea as though it had been a jest, and
Tanninii, drawing the sword wliicli lie wore in this
costume of Soprano, smote him on the shoulder
and, with the most nasal of Yankee twangs,
shouted, ' Arise, Sir Valentino ! '

Knight-errant,' put in Sardoni, seeing that
it would be well to let the Spaniard's inuendo
pass for jest.

And so, like the ' San Carlo ' spitefully'
suggested by Comerio, ' Valentino ' became a
household word among the troupe and lost all
bitterness, becoming, indeed, a sort of symbol
of the familiar teasing, the playful fondness,
which Carlo speedily won from his companions.


It seemed that Sardoni had not exaggerated
matters in speaking of Merlino's temper, for at
this moment he entered the coffee-room with
the ominous double crease in his brow and the
dark look about his eyes, which always betokened
a stormy day for those in his immediate neighbourhood.
At such times he was certainly a

most repulsive-looking man, and at first Carlo
had felt that ho coidd not live with him, that
the mere sight of him would be intolerable,
liy this time, however, he had somehow called
into existence a sort of fondness for his brother-in-law
: he had the rare and enviable gift of
seeing people as they might have been under
happier circumstances, and the still rarer power
of treating them as such ; and so the constant
society of the Impresario had been quite tolerable
to him, or only intolerable at rare moments
when his natural impatience overmastered him,
and made him feel ready to break with everything
and rush back to a peaceful life in his
native land.

So you're down at last,' said merlin, who
resented it as a personal injury if any one lay
in bed after he did. As he had an inconvenient
htibit of always waking early, however late he
had been the night before, his companions sometimes
found this trait in his character rather
provoking, particularly as with most people the
career of an operatic singer does not tend to
promote the virtue of early rising.

\o-y

said Carlo. ' What has gone wrong

Everything ! ' said Mcrlino, savagely. ' I
"wish to goodness, that instead of lying in bed till
this hour, yon had been down at the theatre in
the place of that blockhead ! '

AVell, I will go now if anything can be
done,' said Carlo, ignoring the rudeness and
unreasonableness of the remark.

Iiisonimn ! Much good now ! That is so
exactly like you, Donati, always ready with
patience and cool common - sense over other
people's difficulties ! I know there would be a
cursed difference in your tone if the difficulty
were yours and not mine ! '

Sardoni was on the point of breaking in
with a remonstrance, but Carlo gave him a
glance which made him hold his peace ; and
taking up a paper, he appeared to be reading
illic loading article, though in reality he was
listening to his two companions. He remembered,
not without certain twinges of conscience,
that Carlo had been helping the baggage
men and seeing after all the lost goods of the

troupe, wlicn lie himself had turned in on
the previous night : probably ' Valentine,' who
was always seeing after other people's worries,
had been the last of the Company to go to
Led.

I'm sorry I'm late,' said Carlo. ' How has
Marionii managed to put his foot in it ? '

He declares the orchestra is not half ready,
and he has been quarrelling with the manager
about the rehearsals.'

Ten to one he has made some mistake,' said
Carlo. ' The manager is not likely to speak
Italian, and Marionii's English is,' with a laugh,
well, asking his pardon, is really grotesque.
Just think now, the other day at Gibraltar I heard
him talking to an English violinist, and he said,
"What ! not arc here no locomotives ? " The
poor fellow could hardly keep his countenance !
And then, too, there's no convincing Marionii
that a gesture conveys nothing at all to the
ordinary Englishman ; ho expects them to understand
just as if they had been born and bred
at Naples.'

Merlino smiled.

There's something in that, after all. Perhaps
it is uot so bad as he makes out.'

If you think it would be any rise I will
come round there with you now,' said Carlo,

Well, I wish 3'ou would,' said Merlino,
gruffly, * for your English is better than mine.
Oh I confound 3'ou I Never mind the eliild I
He's well enough here.'

Let me come with you, papa ; I'll be so
good  so good,' said Gigi, who a little while ago
would infallibly have burst into tears at the
prospect of this disappointment,

]\rerlino, who really loved hi* son, was touched
by the entreaty, and made no further objection ;
so the odd-looking trio set off together, and
Sardoni, throwing down his paper, stood at the
window and watched them down the street with a
comical expression about the corners of his mouth.

It's as good as a play to see how that fellow
can turn [erlino round his finger I And all the
time the old brute treats him like a dog. I'm
hanged if I understand how Valentino does it,
and how he keeps his temper, for he's got a
pretty hot one for all his sweetness. Jove ! I

Vni., n. H

should like just to poke the devil up in him for
once and sec what he'd do. lie's none of your
milk-and-water saints or lie could never act ashe
does.'

But if to Sardoni, who held the key to the
enigma, Carlo's character and life were perplexing,
to the rest of the troupe they were
altogether incomprehensible. Some of them
admired him ; others found his unselfishness convenient,
and did not scruple to trade on it ; others
were jealous of his success, and suspected him of
trying to curry favour with Merlino ; and though
before long all, except Gomez, had been so far
conquered by the charm of his manner as to
treat him with friendly familiarity, not one of
them was capable of fathoming the beauty of
his character. He was merely in their eyes a
pleasant exchange for Comerio,  a youngster who,
at present, seemed misiDoilcd by his success, a
good travelling companion, who was always ready
to make fun of petty discomforts, and who seemed
quite naturally, and with an utter absence of
ostentation, to take upon himself the ' dirty work '
of the Company.

It soon came to be considered just ' Valentine's
way ' to yield the comfortable seat in a
railway carriage, or to leave the better room at a
hotel to someone else, or with an unconscious air,
which was often highly amusing, to act as safety-salve
for the Impresario's temper. It was a very
convenient way, there was no doubt about that ;
and his help seemed so spontaneous, and was so
free from all suspicion of conceit or superiority,
that it was indeed help worth having.

Nevertheless, like the art of an actor, all this
seemingly natural and unstudied action was the
result of sheer effort and often wearisome consideration
; it was merely that Carlo succeeded,
as very few do succeed, in veiling the effort and
letting people perceive the result only. How hard
he foimd life in Merlino's Company only he himself
knew. With Nita his great love helped him
to endure patiently, and Mcrlino came in for a
share of this, too. But with the others who were
not akin to him, who were many of them positively
obnoxious to him, it was otherwise. Nothing but
hard struggling with his own temper brought
him through each day's difficulties.

liauer ould patronise him in a bland, superior
way, pat him on the shoulder in season and out
of season, embrace him in his fervent German
fashion, and call him ' Mr'ui Jidkjo.' And then,
With his sensitive, artist nature all unturned, Carlo
woidd wonder to himself whether it was pride
or a right self-respect which made him inwardly
rebel. How far was he bound to submit to the
patronising familiarity of a greedy, conceited,
irritating, underbred old German, whose presence
jarred on him like a false note ? Sometimes he
tried to throw a sort of careful coldness into his
manner towards old Bauer, but that only worked
mischief. Then he tried to carry off all the petty
annoyances with a laugh. This answered better,
but, after all, the weariest thing on earth is forced
merriment, and his own troubles were making
him very heavy-hearted.

Again, there was Fasola, the second baritone,
with his aggravating habit of reading a bitter
meaning into the most innocent remarks, with
his contemptible jealousy, with his determination
to be aggrieved. Genuinely sorry for the man,
and feeling that it must be hard to sec a young

novice in the place he coveted yet coukl by no
means till, Carlo went out of his way to help and
please him ; but Fasola, while accepting help
readily enough, was the most touchy and
querulous of mortals, and always contrived to
be at cross-purposes with the new-comer, and
to take offence on every possible occasion.

Then, too, Carlo was always confronted by
the difficulty of how to be friendly, yet not
intimate, with those who were no better than
they should be. Domenica Corelli severely kept
to the rule of not being on speaking terms with
any one of whom she disapproved ; but this way
of cutting the Gordian knot did not commend
itself to him, and he struggled on in the difficult
endeavour to be courteous to those who were
altogether distasteful to him, to steer between
a WQiik tolerance and a sluggishly expressed
disapproval, to be true to his own principles and
yet to avoid anything like Pharisaism. Hitherto
lie lead been little accustomed to difficulties of
this kind, for he had lived very simply and iu
a perfectly harmonious atmosphere. He \\as
ashamed to find how the petty vexations chafed

him, and often felt inclined to throw up everything
and own that he had attempted something
beyond his powcis. This was generally late at
night or early in the morning, when he was
fagged and dispirited. But then, again, he would
take heart and begin once more, with hope and
courage springing up anew, and a sort of eagerness
for the fray of which but a little while
before he had been so weary.

Sardoni was the only one who troubled himself
to wonder about the new baritone ; he could
not have told why it was that he had from the
very first been so attracted by him, but the attraction
only grew more powerful the more he saw of
him, and his reckless nonchalance was fast melting
away in the deep interest of this half-avowed
friendship. He could have laughed at himself
for being so absorbed in the study of a fellow-actor
that his ordinary pleasures palled upon him ;
but there was no disputing the fact, and when
Carlo was near he was always conscious of a sort
of fascination which compelled him to throw oft
his cold indifference, which roused him into a
pleasant warmth of wonder, and made him look

and listen, and wait upon Donati's utterances as
though they were most remarkable. And this, to
tell the truth, they seldom were, for Carlo was
not particularly intellectual, neither was he
brilliant and witty ; it was rather that he was
what the Italians call ' Siiiipatica,' and full of an
undefined charm which made him as lovable us
he was incomprehensible.

He came in soon after noon looking fagged
and much inclined for a peaceful cigar.

Have you been all this time at the theatre  '
asked Sardoni.

Yes, two mortal hours of altercation, the
manager, the local conductor, Mcrlino, and
Marionii, all in battle array.'

With you as a go-between, 1 suppose, alternately
used and abused ? '

Something like it,' he replied, laughing at a
recollection of the dispute ; ' the whole affair
really rose out of a jealousy between Marionii and
the hical man. Tt seems to me that jealousy
thrives like a weed in art life,  I shall soon begrudging
you your superior parts, amico tiiio.'

You're welcome to the parts,' said Sardoni,

if you Avould make over a little of your superfluous
applause to lue. However, I intend to })e
proud of you, and not jealous, for did I not have
my finger in the pie ? And does not Italian
opera owe me a deep debt of gratitude for having
.secured your services ? '

At this moment Merlino entered abruptly.
Though the difficulties had been smoothed away
by Carlo's mediation the dispute had very much
rushed the manager's temper.

Where is Anita 'r' ' he asked, fiercely.

I have not seen her this morning,' said
Carlo, foreseeing a bad time for his sister ; ' by-the-by,
how about those letters ? '

But merlin with a grievance was like u dog
with a bone ; he would gnaw it, and worry it,
and bite first on one side, then on the other, and
when at last you thought it Alas safely buried he
would exhume it and begin this operations allover
again.

'Not up yel, I'll be bound I ' he exclaimed,
wrathfully ; ' it's abominable ; she ne\cr stirs a
linger to help me, and everything gone an long as
usual ! '

He strode out of the room, and doubtless
opened the vials of his wrath on Nita's head, for
she appeared before long looking very much discomposed,
but with a resentful light in her c}cs
which Carlo had learnt to understand too Avell.

All else would have been bearable enough to
him if only' he could have won Nita's love ; but
after the first day or two, when she had really
been grateful to him for saving her from \ll;lt
in her better moods she fully recognised as a sin,
slice had never felt or pretended to feel for him
any sort of aiccti()n. Wlicn alone with him, or
when she wanted anything done, she would often
be civil and even friendly, but when other people
were present lie seemed to take pleasure in snubbing
him, and never allowed him to for-et for a
moment that he was her junior. The ' elder
sisterly' style of treatment is never very congenial
to a man, and it was particularly irksome
to Carlo, because he and Anita had so very little
in common. It was, perhaps, this Avliich made it
so hard for him to win his way with her. They
had none of the happy associations of childhood
which form so strong a bond between most

brothers and sisters ; they had grown up apart,
and when, at rare intervals, Nita had returned
from the convent, there had been little love lost
between them. At nineteen she had left home
for ever, and east in her lot with Merlino, and
now, after an interval of five years, the brother
and sister were almost strangers to each other,
and Carlo, often in despair, struggled to breakdown
the wall of division which seemed to have
risen between them. If he had been as indifferent
to her as she was to him they might have
drifted on Without much discomfort, but he lu ed
her, not only as the one specially left to him by
his mother on her death-bed, not only with the
family love which had first come to his aid in
that time of numb grief, but with the divine love
which had given him power to sacrifice himself
for her sake.

It is often harder to understand the characters
of those closely related to us than the characters
of mere ordinary acquaintances, our very nearness
hinders us from taking true and just views,
and perhaps Carlo's love blinded him to some
extent with regard to Nita. He credited her

with virtues which she did not possess, and then
was wounded when, in daily life, she was weighed
in the balance and found wantin<>-. lie would
say to himself : ' Is she not the child of niy
father and mother ? Then how is it possible
that she shoidd not at heart be really loving,
really true ? ' But he did not realise, as a dispassionate
spectator would have done, that,
although Xita might originally have inherited
nniny good gifts, her life and education had been
quite enough to paralyse them.

In fact, her character was the natural outcome
of a long course of tyranny. Tyranny in
the convent had first taught her to be deceitful ;
deceit had by degrees become ingrained in her
nature, she had come to think of lying as a very
venial sin, and it did not in the least trouble her
to gain the ends she desired by crooked means.
"Vas she not obliged to outwit the tyrants ? At
her marriage she had escaped into what she had
imagined would jove love and liberty, but in
three months' time she had kant that lie lead
guido a terrible mistake, and had sold herself
into a slavery almost intolerable.

Wlieii a \\oinan makes so terrible a discovery
there are only two courses open to her, either she
must sink or she must swim, there is no idle
drifting in such case. Nita never attempted to
love her husband, she never tried to bridge over
the differences between them ; he tyrannised
over her as was his nature, and she yielded in
miserable, slavish despair, fearing him and hating
him with her whole heart. So inevitably lie
sank, and there was not wanting  there never is
wanting  a Comerio to help her. Sardoni considered
her heartless and commonplace, and so
she was, yet not so heartless as to be insensible
to the ehann of Comerio's devotion when contrasted
with her husband's cruelty, and commonplace
enough to fall with the greatest ease into
the trap laid for her. Comerio's evil influence
increased with a speed which alarmed her, lie
stood on the very brink of the precipice, but yet
at the supreme moment some bliiul impulse lead
made her turn and rush back to lier niotlicr.
Then she had thrown herself upon Carlo's mercy,
had confessed all, and begged his help ; he had
replied by the gift of his life, and now, the

danger for the moment tided over, poor Nita
felt a sudden reaction, and wished with all Ian-heart
that she had acted differently. In her
worst moments she hated Carlo for having ousted
her lover, in her better moments she tried to goad
herself into a sort of gratitude to him for what
he had done ; while often, in revenge for the
humiliation of feeling that he knew her weakness,
she delighted in trying his temper, and
showing to the troupe that she had not the least
intention of joining in the chorus of admiration
which the outer world accorded to the new
baritone.

Tyranny induces deceit, and it also engenders
the desire to tyrannise. Nita, who had been
made so miserable by her husband's overbearing-nature,
retaliated whenever she could on Gigi, or
on her luckless dresser, or, strange to say, most
frequently of all on Carlo. She was so certain
of his love, so sure that he would never fail her,
that she was not afraid to do this ; and at present
the consciousness that she could pain him was
rather pleasant than otherwise, it gave her a
feeling of power which flattered her pride.

You seem to have worked up Merlino into a
pleasant state,' she said, sarcastically, in reply to
Carlo's greeting.

He disliked her way of speaking against lion
husband, and tried to turn the subject,

There has been a good deal to worry him
to-day, but all is straight now. "SVe have been
down at the theatre, it seems a better one than I
should have expected.'

All is straight, you should say, with the
exception of the Impresario's temper,' said Nita,
sharply. ' I wish you would leave him alone
and not interfere, you only make it a great deal
worse for me,'

Nita's unreasonableness was at times enough
to madden a man, and Carlo coidd not help
sympathising a little with Merlino ; he knew
quite well that if he had not gone to the theatre
her reproach would have been, * You never try
to put Merlino into a better temper, you never
try to smooth matters for me.'

He was silent, and Xita, who had hoped to
stir up a discussion, finding it impossible to
quarrel alone, walked over to the window where

Gigi was contentedly playing with his soldiers,
and without a word of warning swept the whole
of the miniature camp into its box.

Go away ! we can't have your toys all over
the place ! ' she said, giving him a vindictive
little imsh.

Gigi, whose tears were terribly near the
surface, burst into a roar, and Carlo, who on
principle never interfered between mother and
child, had much ado to keep silence while the
little fellow was ignominiously turned out of the
room.

It's all your fault,' said Nita, returning a
little flushed from the contest, 'you make a
great deal too much of the child, he must be
taught his proper place.'

She sat down with her writing-case at the
vacant table.

I am going to the post-office directly,' said
Carlo, by way of breaking the uncomfortable
silence ; ' shall you have any letters ? '

What affair is that of yours ? ' she asked,
angrily. ' Is it not enough that my husband is
spying on me all day long ? If you think I

am going to put up with you as spj- you arc
mistaken ! It 'was bad enough before you
came ! '

And with an impatient gesture she gathered
her things together and left the room.

Sardoni, glancing up, saw the pained look on
Carlo's face, and was so stung by it that he coukl
no longer keep sikMiee.

By Jove ! ' he exclaimed ; ' if Madame
ferlino were not your sister I shoukl give liera
piece of my mind.'

lie was curious to know what Carlo would
say.

For a minulc he was silent ; alien, stifling a
sigh, he replied lightly, but not altogether without
effort, 

You see those who cannot flog the horse flog
the saddle. Merlino has vexed her, and she
uses me as safety-valve.'

And Merlino appears to do the same ; you
are between two fires.'

But with a good comrade to cheer nie when
I am down in the mouth. Some day, amico mio,*
'' and as he spoke that bright, sudden, Italian

smile seemed to make his whole face shine 
some day I hope to have a chance of giving
as well as taking from you.'

Sardonic felt choked ; for some minutes he satin
deep thought, then looking up quickly, said,
in his abrupt English way, 

I mean to take you at your word. Tomorrow
is Sunday. Is there any rehearsal ? '

Marionii has arranged to take Troratorc, with
the orchestra and chorus, but he'll not need us.'

Good ; then will you give me jour company
in the afternoon ? I have a disagreeable piece of
work to do, and should be glad of your help.'

Carlo seemed really pleased by the request,
and, in truth, his interest in Sardoni was a capital
thing for him, and helped to take him for tho
time being out of his own troubles.

CHAPTER V.

A Return.

In vain Remorse and Fear and Hate
Beat with bruised Lands against a fate,
Alios walls of iron only move
And open to the touch of love.
He only feels his burdens fall,
Who, taught by suffering, pities all.'

AVhittikii.

How dismal the place looks I ' exclaimed Carlo,
as, after service the next day, lie walked 'itll
Sardoni through the quiet streets-smith their
shuttered shop-fronts and deserted roads, to the
station. *A good thing, I daresay, to have the
shops closed and to give the people a rest, but
there is such a sleepy air about it all ; they don't
seem to enjoy it.'

Sardoni laughed. * Sunday afternoon is alway's
a sleepy time in England, I don't know why ; I
assure you the most orthodox and energetic maybe
caught napping that one day of the week.'

'They don't seem to know how to enjoy,' said

Carlo, feeling quite oppressed, us foreigners ahva-.s
do, by the extreme quiet. ' Ah, here comes a
baud, that makes it a little more lively ! Giotto
cic/o ! What is this ? A revolutionary club ?
Sec ! they have " Blood and Fire " on their banner,
that's rather too strong.'

'That, my dear Valentino, is the pet abomination
of the true respectable Briton,  it is the
Salvation Army, a band of religious workers.'

'The' Avill at any rate rouse up the sleepers,'
said Carlo, laughing. ' They make it seem a little
less like a city stricken with the plague, I must
say. It is cool to criticise your national
customs after being here so short a time ; but
really your Sunday docs seem to me rather
too drowsy-respectable ; it has little of the Foita
about it.'

'That all depends on your definition of a
ir.sY'',' said Sardoni. 'The average Briton, avIio
has been religiously brought \\\), goes to cliurcli
morning and cunning, eats a heavier dinner than
usual in the middle of the day for the sake of
sparing this servants, abuses the Salvation Army
for disturbing the Sabbatical calm, and nods

.serenely through the afternoon over a volume of
sermons.'

'They read sermons to themselves, do you
mean, besides hearing two in the churches ? ' asked
Carlo, with an air of such ingenuous astonishment
that Sardoni burst into a laugh.

Why, yes, to be sure ; many of them wouldn't
think it Sunday without,' he rci)licd.

Poor things ! poor things ! ' said Carlo, with a
pity, which to the Englishman was highly comic.

One ruin's meat is another man's poison, you
see,' said Sardoni. ' But, look here, don't be too
outspoken on these subjects, for, to tell you the
truth, your sort of saintliness is not likely to be
understand of a northern people. We like to
take our pleasures sadly and our religion, too.'

We sang the Jahilate this morning,' .said
Carlo, reflectively ; ' but certainly this doesn't look
much like it.'

For goodness sake do hide your light under
a bushel,' said Sardoni ; ' for if you come out withall
these broad notions in the place I'm going to
take you to, it will be all over with me. I'm
taking you as a sample of the troupe, and if you

shock the prejudices of the natives you'll be worse
than useless.'

'Where in the world are we cooing'? ' asked
Carlo, looking perplexed.

By this time they had readied the station, and
for reply Sardoni handed hiiu his railway ticket.
This conveyed to him nothing at all, and in
silence he followed his friend to a smoking carriage,
and, knowing intuitively that Sardoni did
not care to talk, lit a cigar and gave himself upto
the enjoyment of the beautiful wooded country
through which they were passing.

Sardoni watched him silently.

After all, I doubt whether he'll inaki* any
impression on them,' he thought to himself.
Xow if he were a stiff, churchly-looking fellow,
with a cross on his watch-chain and the ascetic
type of face, there might bo some good in his
coming; or, on the other hand, if he were one of
your priggish-looking, truly-pious young men,
then I might gain a sort of reflected respectability.
But there's no classifying Valentine, he won't fit
any of the conventional notions. Imagine my
father here at this moment ; what would he see in

him? Merely Ji very handsome Italian in a
delightfully easy and comfortable attitude, travelling
reprehensibly on a Sunday afternoon, idly
enjoying the scenery and a cigar. And yet that
fellow is a hero, if there ever was one, and a saint
of the real sort, and no mistake. I could wish for
this one afternoon to shake him into the goody-goody
mould though ; that, at any rate, has the
merit of catching the eye of the respectable and
virtuous, and getting a good deal more credit than
it deserves. Now Valentino, looked at casually,
might be anything. I believe if he thought more
highly of himself he woidd get the credit he
deserves, but, confound it, he never seems to
think of himself at all.'

They got out at a snuill wayside station, and
making their way up a steep hill found themselves
on a Avide, deserted-looking onion, where here
and there a solitary horse or cow grazed, and where
the mingled heather and gorse, set like jewels in
the smooth green of the turf, unloosed Carlo's
tongue,

How beautiful !' he exclaimed ; ' I never saw
anything like it before.'

Sardoni seemed pleased by his adniinttion,

You see we have something besides ehimiie\'-
pots in Enghuid,' ho said, with a laugh. ' Look
there.'

And lie pointed to the rugged and rather
wild-looking hills in the background. These,
however, seemed to be much less to Carlo's
taste than the smiling common with its near
beauty and its glow of rich warm colour. He
did not care much to look at them ; but the
narrow, winding lane into which they soon
passed charmed liii, and he seemed to find
pleasure, which quite amused Sardoni, in the
high luxlges with their tangled growth of blackberry
bushes, travellers' joy, and red hips and
haws.

'A hedge like this is quite a novelty to me,'
he said. ' AVe have nothing of this sort. Do
you know this part of the country well ? '

I know every inch of the ground,' said
Sardoni. * Down there to the right is the village
 look ; you can just see the church tower
through those trees.'

He leant over a field gate and gazed down

on the little country place with u softened lookin
his eyes, which Carlo was quick to note.

This is Sardoni's old home,' he thought to
himself ; but he only said, ' It is a perfect little
place, just like the English villages I have read
of. I'm glad you brought me out here.'

We'll cross this field,' said Sardoni, not quite
in his natural voice. ' I don't want to pass
through the village, for some one is sure to
recognise me. This is where I used to live, you
know.'

d you are going home ? '

Sardoni nodded. Just at that moment he
could not have spoken a word to save his life.

Carlo, too, was silent, but his silence was
perfect sympathy. It was the Englishman who
first broke the pause.

It's your doing, old fellow I ' he sjiid, rather
huskily. *I should never have come if it hadn't
been for 3'ou I '

lie did not explain himself, and Carlo asked
no questions, only looked glad and sui'i)risi'd ;
and quickly putting himself in Sai'doiii's place,
said, 

Let me wait for you hero ; you lead bettor
be alone'

'No,' said sardonic, with a forced laugh.
Alone, there is no knowing what I might do ;
I must have you, Valentino, to keep me up to it.
I can assure you there'll be none of the fatted-calf
business. I'm nothing but a disgrace to
them, and this is the hardest day's work I've
lead for an age.'

Glad as Carlo was at his friend's resolve to
seek out his people, he was sorely perplexed as
to the part lie himself was to play. Naturally
enough he felt that he woidd be very much <le
trop in a family reconciliation, nor could he
understand how Sardoni could tolerate the presence
of a comparative stranger at such a time.
however', he was too unselfish to object on his
own account, and wise enough to let Sardoni
choose his own way of setting to work. Tlicy
crossed the field, walked through a little copse,
entered a sunny-looking garden and made their
way towards the Vicarage, a pretty, gray old
house with many gables and a moss-grown, red-tiled
roof. Carlo could guess how his friend's

licht was beat in bias with hei<hlenc(l colour lie
walked steadily up the well-kept drive ; but
Sardoni spoke not a word till they stood in the
porch and heard the bell echoing in the quiet
house. Then he turned to his companion and
said, with a touch of his ordinary jesting tone, 

The cat will be out of the bag at last  my
name will no longer be a secret ! '

As he spoke, steps were heard within, and
through the half-glass door they could sec a neat
maidservant crossing the hall, Sardoni was relieved
to sec a strange face: it would have
humiliated him dreadfully to be recognised by
the parlour-maid.

Is mr. Postlethwayte at home ' ' he asked,
in his strong, decided voice.

A look of perplexity came over the maid's
face.

'No, sir; there's no one of that name living
here,' she replied.

AVhat I is he gone, then ? ' exclaimed Sardoni,
tuiiiing pale. 'The  car  who is vicar,
now ? *

Mr. Stanley is vicar now,' said the maid.

AVill you come in and sec iiutsler, sir 'i He
could, perhaps, tell you what you want to kno\.
You see, sir, I've only been here in this situation
a few days nij'self, so I don't know the names
hereabout.'

'Thank you  no  I'll not come in,' said
Sardoni ; and he turned away and walked dow n
the drive again with never a word.

'Aiiiico iiiio / ' said Carlo, Avhen he ventured
at last to break the silence ; ' what can I do for
you ? Shall I p;o and make inquiries in the
village ? '

They had b}' this time left the Vicarage
garden, and were in the little copse ; Sardoni
threw himself down in the shade of an old elm-tree.

I \ish you would, old fellow,' lie said, in a
broken voice.

Carlo was just about to go when it suddenly
occurred to him that he should have to master
that extraordinary name which Sardoni had
spoken at the door.

It's stupid of me,' he said, * but I couldn't
quite catch the surname. Say it over to me more
slowly.'

Postlethwayte,' said Saidoiii, not turiun<j:
this head.

Putliolswavto,' repeated Carlo, with infinite
pains.

Spite of his trouble Sardoni laughed.

You'll not ask nie to ciel you that I ' said
Carlo, when, after many practising and corrections,
he had at length arrived at the right
pronunciation.

'No, it is too crack-jaw a name for an Italian ;
besides, I prefer to go iiicor/. with the troupe.
]out I'll not be Sardoni any more with you : call
me Jack.'

One thing,' said Carlo, as he prepared to go.
How much am I to ask ? '

Ask when my father left, and why, and
Adhere he has gone ; but give no reason for
asking. Don't let them think you are my
messenger.'

Carlo promised to do his best, and taking the
path pointed out to him by Sardoni made his
way through the quiet little churchyard and
across a stile into the village street. For a
moment he fdt rather at a loss to know how

to proceed, and half afraid lest the villagers,
might talk sonic unintelligible pcdoia ; however,
he went boldly up to a group of big boys Who
were idling about and asked whether they could
tell him where the sexton lived. Their dialect
puzzled him not a little, but he managed to make
out which house it was, and walking through the
pretty strip of garden, With its hollyhocks and
dahlias, knocked at the door. A little bent old
man, with u weather-beaten face and a friendly
but toothless smile, opened it.

You keep the keys of the church, I am told.
Am I permitted to see it ? ' asked Carlo.

Yes, sir ; certainly, sir,' mumbled the toothless
old man. ' Fine day, sir ! Step in a minute,
will \Q, sir ? '

Carlo stopped in, and found himself in a snug
little room which smelt strongly of apples. The
old man took a couple of large keys from a nail,
and then, with a great effort, tried to reach his
hat from a peg on the wall.

Allow me,' said Carlo, handing it to him in
his pleasant, courteous way.

Thank ye, sir,' said the old sexton, turning a

kindly look on the handsome stranger. ' Time
was when that there hook wasn't a bit too high
for me,  not a bit, sir ; but, what with the rheims
and old age, why I be again' down as fast
as my grandchildren be acomin' up.'

House been here a long time, I daresay *
said Carlo, feeling rather like a detective.

Oh ! ay, sir ; that I have, sir, that I have !
Why, I've been sexton here these forty years
past, and born and bred in the place, too ! .Six
vicars I've seen in this here parish. (Fur late
Vicar's son, bless him, he used to say, " Why,
Johnson, you're like the brook ! Vicars nun conic
and vicars go, but you go on for ever I " ]hut
lor I I never right' understood which brook it
was he meant.'

Wasn't there someone named Postlethwayte
here once ? ' asked Carlo, bringing out the name
with laudable precision.

Wh}% yes, sir. It was poor Master Jack as
I was just telling on. Aw! he was a rare one for
u jest, he was ! The poor Vicar never held his
head up again after he left.'

Did the Vicar die ? ' asked Carlo.

xVw no, sir, he couldn't clio ; he be alive and
well, bless him ! But there was trouble will
Master Jack  the old story, sir ; the old story ! 
a pretty girl to put him off his balance ; and then,
when it all came out, he, just desperate-like at
the blame he got at home, made away with
some money that wasn't his, and rushed off and
was never heard of no more.'

Carlo coidd hardly have regulated his expression
to the casual interest of a stranger had not
his profession taught him to command his face
and make it answer at all times to his will. He
was glad that the sexton was silent for a minute
while he fitted the key in the heavy oak-door of
the church.

'That's a sad story,' he said at length.
What became of the poor vicar ? '

*He couldn't stay here, sir; he felt the disgrace
so bad he went away to foreign parts ; and
it's my belief, sir, that he had hopes of finding
Master Jack, though other folks said different.
However, I never heard as how they met, and
the vicar he be back in England now, and I wish
we'd got him here again. Not but what Mr.

Stanley is a good young man in his way, you
understand, sir ; but lie ain't our old vicar, and
nothing won't make him.'

lias he taken some new living, then 't ' asked
Carlo.

 Ay, sir, he be just settled in since midsummer
: the i)aris]i o' Cleevering in Mount -
shire  that's his new situation, and not a patch
upon this parish, as far as money goes  at least,
so folk say. Now, sir, just you step and see our
monument. That's Sir Gerald Fitzgerald, as was
killed in the Civil "War ; Naseby or Marston
Moor 1 believe it was,  at any rate, the last battle
before King Charles was taken. Belike you
know, sir, how it was called ; I'm not much of a
scholar myself.'

Nor I,' said Carlo, not at all desiring
to be put through an examination in English
history, and feeling extremely shaky as to
dates.

He stayed long enough to please the sexton,
and duly admired the village church, then,
having gladdened the old man's heart with a
shilling, he bade him good-day, and rejoined

Sardoni, whom he found still stretched at full
length winder the elm-tree.

He got up quickly as Carlo drew near, and
looked anxiously into his face.

'swell?' he exclaimed, in the sharpened voice
of fear and apprehension.

It is all right,' said Carlo, reassuringly
Your father has got a new living. He is jiist
settled down at Cleevering in Moonshine.'

How did you find out ? Did they suspect
anything ? '

No ; but they spoke of you. I learnt it
from the old sexton.'

What ! dear old Johnson ? Is he still alive ?
Did you really see him ? '

He seemed very fond of you all, specially
of you, and he spoke so warmly of your father.
But, Jack, yon must forgive me, I couldn't help
hearing it, for the old fellow would ramble on,
und I couldn't shut him up without making him
suspicious, I heard  well, what you wouldn't
tell me that day at Naples.'

He looked up at him apologetically.

Ton my foul ! * exclaimed Sardoui, * you're

vol,. TI, K

the oddest fellow I ever knew. You look as if it
were you that was to blame, not me ! '

I was sorry to know it, since you didn't wish
me to know.'

'All right, Yal  all right!' said Sardoni, in a
choked voice. ' I might have knon it wouldn't
turn you against me ! As I told you yesterday,
you would make excuses for the devil himself 
and so would old Johnson I Tell me just what he
said.'

They sat down again in the shade, and Carlo
repeated the Avhole conversation, Sardoni listening
with averted face, and nervously crushing in
his lingers the fallen loaves which lay on the
grass beside him.

'As to the money,' he said, when Carlo
paused, ' I swear to you, Donati, I didn't know
what I was doing! I was mad!  if not, is it
likely that, to escape my father's blame, I should
have done what the world would blame a thousand
times more ? Embezzlement is an unpardonable
crime, but to ruin a girl is an offence
very easily condoned. bj' society.'

That's true  to our shame be it spoken ! '

said Carlo, with a gleam of indignant light in
his eyes.

I was mad  desperate ! ' resumed Sardoni.
It all came out at her death  and I  why I felt
like a murderer ! My father was not one to
spare a fellow in such a case. I couldn't stand
it ; to stay at home was more than a fellow could
bear; I was bound to get away from him. And
lion came a mad impulse to take this money
which was within my reach, and break off with
the old world altogether and rush to America.'

And in America you met f rhino ? '
Yes. I got on much better than I deserved.
But, somehow, a thing like that makes a fellow
think, and when I saw the game Comcrio was
playing, and how helpless and friendless your
sister was, I couldn't help feeling sorry for her,
and angry to think that I was the last sort of
man who could help her.'

You did help  we owe everything to you I '
said Carlo, warmly.

Well, when your name was announced that
day at Naples, I lead just an impulse to sec you
and tell you the liulh, and son-how,  there's a

bit of the inii;;ician about you, Val,  you stung
me up fur worse than my father had ever done,
and to some purpose. Ilulloa I you arc shivering
with cold ; let us walk on.'

He looked back sadly enough at the old home
which his wrong-doing had desolated, then, tuning
away with a heavy sigh, left the copse and
re-crossed the field. Carlo said little, but took
his ami, and as they walked back to the station
wondered in his own mind what would be the
wisest thing for his friend to do.

AVc are not very far from flintshire, I
suppose, here,' he said at length. ' Shall you go
there or shall you write ? '

Neither,' said Sardoni. * I can't go through
a day like this again, Yal.'

But if, as the old sexton thought, your
fatlicr had been trying to find you all these
years ? (Surely you could at least write.*

'And send him a playbill?' said Sardoni,
sarcastically. ' Xo, no ; that idea of old Johnson's
won't hold water. I know my father better
than he docs. He's one of the best men in the
world, and also one of t]u> hardest. I won't nm

the risk of reviving the old disgrace in ii new
parish ; I will hold my peace, and be to everyone,
except you, just Sardoni the tenor.'

Carlo was sorry that his friend had made
this decision, but he knew that had he been in
Sardoni's place arguments would only have irritated
him. So he held his peace, and comforted
himself with the reflection that in so small a
country as England the chances were greatly in
favour of a meeting between the father and son.

rilAPTEPv YT.
-\v 1 N r u Y w F. A r II E n .

Corne thvoiifrli the gloom of clouded skies,
The slow dim rain and fog athwart;
'Through east winds keen with wrong and lies,

Come and lift up my hopeless heart.
Come through the sickness and the pain,

The sore unrest that tosses still ;
Through aching dark that hides the gain,
Come and arouse mv fainting will.'

A Threefold Cold.

The autumn wore on, and the cold weather set in.
merlin's Company had become pretty well accustomed,
however, to wintry weather during their
American tour, and no one suffered mxicli except
Carlo, who, having never left Italy before, found
the English climate fearfully trying. Unselfish
as he was, he was by no means so devoid of
common-sense as Captain Britton thought him,
and, knowing how much depended on his health,
he took all possible precautious. ITe was not one
of those short-sighted and aggravating people

who seem to ttikc pleasure in prematurely wearing
themselves out, and who give their friends
constant trouble just because their zeal outruns
their discretion. There was in his character a
strong vein of that matter-of-fact good sense
which is to be found in most Italians, though
not in the popular English conception of them.
Sardoni was quite surprised when, one day after
Treasury,' he consulted him as to the best tailor
in the place where they were staying, and then
went off promptly and ordered a fur-lined coat
which must have cost considerable more than a
month's salary, and which proved the envy of
all the other men in the Company.

You are the most inconsistent fellow I ever
met,* said Sardoni, when the coat came home ;
'you go in for a luxurious thing like that, and
yet seem to be willing to go without most things
that other men care for.'

It's not a bad thing in coats,' said Carlo,
looking at the brown fur with satisfaction ; ' and
this is the first time I've felt warm for a month.
You see I really must get rid of this cough, or I
shall soon have a voice like a forlorn,'

Well,' said Sardoni, with a laugh, ' I'm glad
you're no ascetic, for they are bad to live with, as
I know to my cost. There's nothing like it for
di-living a fellow the other way.'

But, spite of the fur coat, Carlo's health
did not improve ; the constant travelling, the
draughts on the stage, the necessity of turning
out every night, ill or well, in rain or snow, and
the constant strain of physical hard work and
mental excitement, all told on him severely. Nor
was it possible for a man of his temperament to
go through all the suffering and grief of the past
few months without paying for it. It was not
only the change of physical climate which told
upon him, it was the change of moral climate.

To have lived always with such tender, devoted
love as had been his at home is in someways
a good preparation for after life, but it
inevitably makes the phmge into the loveless
outer world much harder  safer, perhaps, but
more bitter. The world is the gainer, insomuch
as it receives a loving, unsullied nature into its
midst, but to the man himself the process is very
painful ; he is, as it were, transported suddenly

from the tropics to the arctic regions. Even
Carlo's great success, which in itself was enjoy-able
enough, had many drawbacks, for it stirred up
jealousy, or perhaps won him admiration and
small attentions with which he would thankfully
have dispensed. Already he had proved the truth
of Enrico's remark  * The men will trouble you
with their jealousy, because of your success, and
the women with their love, because of your face.'
There were endless little annoyances of this
sort, which in good health and spirits he could
take lightly, but which began increasingly to
prey upon his mind, while every day it seemed
to him more difficult to put up with Merlino's
rudeness, and with the petty insults and hateful
innuendoes with which Gomez delighted to try
his patience. Sardoni used to watch him curiously
at such times ; he never quite got so far
as not to show that lie fell provoked, and this,
no doubt, prompted Merlino and Gomez to persevere
; for to badger an obtuse man is no sport,
but to worry a sensitive man and see how longe
will stand it, is interesting to some people.
Even Sardoni owned to a kind of pleasurable

feeling in watching these encounters ; more than
once he surprised a look of vindictive anger on
Carlo's face, and always he could see that his
colour rose, and that the blood must be tingling
in his veins, for he was hot-tempered, though
he had his temper well in control. Curiously
enough the only real outburst of passion into
which he was betrayed was due to Sardoni himself,
not to the cross-grained Impresario or the
malicious Spaniard.

It arose in this way. Christmas was over,
and Merlino's troupe had wandered from big
town to big town, sometimes meeting with unusual
success, sometimes performing to woefully
empty houses, or at best to houses which had
been ' filled with paper.' Carlo had by this
time become well accustomed to the life ; he was
familiar with every face in that little moving
army, with its curiously assorted nationalities
and its several ranks and grades, its principals,
its chorus-singers, male and female, its leading
instrumentalists, who lead to supplement the local
orchestras, its stage carpenters, its baggage men,
its dressers. Most of them were individually

known to him, many of thcni were his friends,
while some had been won over by Gomez into
champions of the departed Comerio.

Towards the middle of January' merlin had
arranged to take one of the London opera-houses,
and give a series of twenty performances,
a project bold to rashness at that time of
year. The Company betook themselves to various
dreary lodging-houses in the neighbourhood of the
theatre, and Carlo, under very depressing circumstances,
made his first acquaintance with London
and his first appearance on a London stage.

It seemed as if everything conspired together
against him at that time ; the weather was trying
in the extreme, there were heavy snow-storms,
and then for days after the great piles of
blackened snow would lie on eitlicr side of the
streets. The dense, yellow fogs, and the utter
absence of sun, made him so miserable that life
seemed hardly worth living; while to add to
the physical discomforts, his throat became so
seriously affected by the climate that he often
hardly knew how to get through his work.
Merlino was in a state of nervous irritability

immoral enough and almost excusable lo one who
was playing so risky a game ; Mile, de Caisne,
who travelled inter Nita's chapcronagc, had
fallen hopelessly in lo\'e with the new baritone,
and was a constant thorn in his side ; while Nita
herself was so trying foolish and unreasonable
that it was all he could do not to lose patience
with lier. Things were in this state when
suddenly a far worse trouble arose to threaten
him. One morning, sorely chafed by some
dispute which had arisen, he as usual took
refuge in silence, and leaving Sardoni to continue
the conversation with Nita and Mile, do
Caisne, turned to the window and took up the
outside of the Times, glancing with no special
purpose down the columns in which concerts and
matters connected with the musical world arc
advertised. He had taken up the paper casually
enough, little thinking that instead of a distraction
it would prove an additional care, when,
suddenly, and with a shock indescribable,  a shock
which for the time half paralysed him, he read
the words: 'Signer Comerio begs to announce
his arrival in town. All communications with

regard lo concerts or other engagements to bo
addressed to Antics and Co.'

For some milites he stood still, dimly hearing
the voices in the room behind him,  dimly
seeing the dreary street-with its grim, smutty
houses and iron railings ; then, without a word,
he folded the paper, loft the room, and with a
craving to get away alone omit of the reach of all
interruptions, made his-say into St. James's Park.

Comerio had followed them ! Comorin was
in England  in london at that very minute !
"WTiat could possible' have induced him to come
to london at this time of year, save the one
desire and intention of meeting Anita ? The
news sent a sort of horrible flash of light across
some of the dark hints which Gomez had lately
dropped. A miserable feeling of bitter hopelessness
took possession of him ; he had tried and
struggled, he had given up all for the sake of
preventing this evil, he had born shame, and
pain, and wretchedness indescribable, and here
were his plans defeated. How could he hope to
overcome so wily a foe as Comerio P How Alas
it possible to save his sister when she refused

to be saved? He could not even feel that he
had any influence with her, it seemed to him
that as time went on she only treated him with
a more contemptuous indifference, or at times
even with open dislike. Had he given up all
for her sake only to be hated by her in return?
Had he lost all that was dearest to him only to
fail ill this attempt ?

Those brief lines in the Times hid fallen like
a bomb-shell into his lite.

He had wandered miserably round the dreary-looking
park. The fog was not quite so dense as
it had been on the previous day, he could see
through a misty haze the chill, gray looking
water, and the ducks swimming about aimlessly,
and here and there in the distance the outlines
of great houses. Presently he heard the "Westminster
chimes, and he remembered how, long
ago, Francesca had told him of the words which
belonged to them 

Lord, through this hour,
Be Thou our guide.
So by Thy power
No foot shall slide."

lout he Mas too hopeless to pray, and the next

moment Big Ben warned him that he must hurv}-
back for a rehearsal of Un Ball in Marchers.
lie reached the theatre, feeling harassed and ill,
and made his way to the green-room, where he
fomid .Sardoni, looking more cheerful than he
had done for some time past, and with a mischievous
gleam about his eyes.

'You basely deserted me in the argument,'
he exclaimed, as Carlo entered ; ' but I'll have
my revenge on you ! You're the most careless
fellow on earth, leaving diamonds straying aboiit
loose in a London lodging-house ! '

Carlo, glancing down quickly, saw that
Francesca's ring, which he always wore, was
not on his hand.

Where is it  ' he said, hastily, feeling
annoyed that he could have forgotten it even
for a moment.

Ah ! that is the question,' said Sardoni,
taking him hy the shoulders in teasing fashion,
and meaning to have a little fun out of him
before he yielded the ring, Which was on his
own finger.

Unluckily the light at that moment happened

to flash on the diamond, and Carlo, in a sudden
paroxysm of anger, wrenched himself away from
the teasing hold, and dashing at Sardoni with all
his force, took him so completely' by surprise that,
before a bystander could have uttered a word of
remonstrance, the tenor had measured his length
on the floor, and the ring had been seized by its
rightful owner.

Sardoni had gone over like a nincpin, being
utterly unprepared for so furious an onslaught ;
lie was angry and astonished.

"Nathan the devil are you after!' he exclaimed,
as he picked himself up.

Jack, Jack,  I didn't mean it ! ' exclaimed
Carlo, his wrath spent in that one lightning-like
flash, and shame and regret overwhelming him
as he partly realised what he had done, and saw
the look of grave inquiry with which one of the
officials belonging to the theatre regarded them
as he entered the green-room.

Sardoni was silent till they were once nioi-c
alone. He could not keep his anger in face of
Carlo's shame and dismay.

I didn't know there owns anything particular

about the ring. Gigi brought it down from your
washhand-stand ; I only meant to chaff you a
little'

It was the ring wliieh belonged to my
betrothed,' said Carlo. ' Not that that is any
excuse, indeed I think it makes it rather worse.*

lie was evidently so unhappy about it that
Sardoni quite lost all feeling of offence.

Well, you know, old fellow, I always wanted
to poke up the devil in j'ou and see what
you'd do.'

Carlo turned away with a sigh.

I can't think why I did it ! I was beside
myself. If I had done it to Gomez, now, it
might have been easier to understand ; but to
you. Jack, you whom I'm really fond of!
I can never forgive myself.'

He was very quiet now, and sad and ashamed ;
in all his life he had never been guilty of such
an unreasoning fit of anger.

'Never mind, Val,' said the Englishman,
almost as much surprised by the vehement regret
as by the attack itself. ' I declare I like you
the better for it, I do indeed. Why, to hear

VOL. II. I-

you talk one might suppose you had meant to
murder me ! '

I meant nothing, that's the horrible part of
it to me,' said Carlo. ' I wanted the ring and
to be free from your teasing. There wasn't a
moment to think  it was all over in a flash.
How am I to tell that I maTi't murder some
fellow one of these days by a like impulse ? '

My dear boy ! ' Sardoni laughed till he was
almost convulsed, * you who wouldn't hurt a fly I '

Well, you laugh,' said Carlo; 'and it's
good of you to take it lightly ; but I can't see
that there's a pin to choose between me and the
man who murders in sudden anger. Anyhow,
I know T can never be hard on such a murderer
again.'

That's like the story of the fellow who saw
a man going to the gallows, and exclaimed,

"There but for the grace of God goes " I

forget the old buffer's name. However, "Seal, T
don't think you need be afraid, for you have
plenty of that sort of thing and little enough of
the devil's help.'

That's what I can't understand about it,'

Siiid Carlo, in the most outspoken way. lie
hardly ever spoke of religion, but when he did
speak it M'as with the direct simplicity and
naturalness hardly ever to be met with in
England save in children. ' That's what puzzles
me. IIow can I say the J'ciii Creator one hour
and know it is true, and the next turn upon my
friend like that ? My blood was made hot just
by that trifle.'

At that moment the call-boy appeared to
summon them, but in the many and wearisome
delays, and repetitions, and scraps of rest, Carlo
apparently had time to think out his problem ;
for as he and Sardoni walked home together
he said, just as if no rehearsal had intervened, 

I see how it was, Jack. I was horribly
anxious, and had lost faith ; then quickly into
that vacant space steps the dcil, and presto !
I am made to knock down my best friend.'

Evidently the whole affair was so graphically
before his own mind that Sardoni suppressed his
inclination to laugh.

'You are an old-fashioned fellow, "''al,' ho
said ; ' not at all up to the modern lights, as T

told you once before. A fellow that does believe
ill the devil and don't believe in divorce! Fy
dear bov, you're an anachronism I }\\xt what

No, of course it's all right ; but at first it
took my breath away, and I thought all was lost.
Comerio is in London.'

Sardoni gave a low whistle of surprise and
dismay.

Are you sure it is true ? "Who told you ? *

No one. I saw it in the Times this morning.'

"WTiat ! while I was finishing the argument ?
Yon had plenty of self-control, then, for you
betrayed nothing at all.'

'// Diavolo had not then arrived on the scene ;
he joined me in St. James's Park,' said Carlo,
with the utmost gravity.

I hope he is not with lis in Pall Mall,' said
Sardoni, mischievously. ' It makes me feel quite
uncanny to hear you talk. Let us hope he has
left you.'

'Why, certainly,' said Carlo, with perfect
good humour, and unconsciously borrowing one

of Gigi's Americanisms. ' I couldn't do with him
at all on the stage. How could I have rehearsed
Renato to any purpose if I had been worrying
over Comerio's arrival all the time ? '

Oh I ' said Sardoni, reflectively ; ' so you
think that his province is to make people
worry.'

'To seize on everyone's vulnerable point,'
said Carlo. ' I see now that to worry oneself
and be over anxious about others is a sin.'

One that most people consider a virtue and
lo\c to parade,' said Sardoni, with some recollection
of his old home-life in his mind.

Myself I never thought of it before, but it
must be so,' said Carlo. * One needs a thing like
this every now and then to make one think. I
hope you'll forgive me. Jack, for having been in
such a fury with you?'

Sardoni laughed away his apologies, declaring
again that he liked him the better for it ; but it
was not the passion which nnide him feel this, it
was the contrast between the sudden outburst and
Carlo's usual life ; it was the thought, ' this fellow
is no wcaklv, amiable character, he is strong

onougli to keep under this hot soutlieni nature.
After all tlicre'.s hope for me yet, if he, with such
lire in his veins, has managed to turn out what he
is.' He was far from troubling himself to go into
the matter in such detail, but this was the real
reason that he was so strongly dral to his friend
after their quarrel.

Sardoni was not a little curious to know more
about Carlo's love affairs, but he could not makeup
his mind to speak to him about the matter ;
instead, he threw out u casual remark that afternoon,
when it happened that he and Anita were
practising a duet in the drawing-room wliicli they
had to sing at night.

Mile, de Caisne is doing her best to captivate
your brother, don't you think ?' he said, by way of
leading up to the subject.

'Yes, the little goose,' said Xita ; * it makes
me quite cross to watch her.'

Our Valentino doesn't exactly enjoy it either,
I fancy,' said Sardoni. ' I understand from him
that he was to have been married at one time.'

Yes, he was betrothed to Miss Britton, an
English girl who lived near us. It was broken

off when he went on the stage ; iu some-says It is
rather a pity, for she was well off, and he'll
not find such a pretty girl again in a hurry.
But, after all, as I told him only the other day,
these marriages with foreigners seldom turn out
really well.'

"What did he say to that ? ' asked Sardoni,
marvelling at the indifferent way in which she
spoke of the sacrifice which she must haec
known had been made for her sake.

Oh, he said nothing at all ; only blushed unlike
a girl, and looked as he always does when I
say what he doesn't like.'

"While she was speaking the door was thrown
open, and the servant announced Signor Comerio.'
sardonic, charmed to think how Comerio would
hate him for being in the way, greeted him in
the friendliest manner, and determined to stay
and be hated lo the bitter end : he could see
from Anita's manner that she was not wholly
unprepared for Comerio's sudden appearance.

But I interrupt a tete-u-ti-tc' said Comerio,
in his soft, flattering voice, * "What did I hear
from Madame Merlino's lips ? " When I say

what he doesn't like I " Does our prima donna
ever say anything distasteful to mankind ? '

Nita laughed.

We were talking of my brother,' she said,
taking her revenge on Sardoni for not at once
going away by saying what she knew would vex
him. ' I was trying to persuade him the other
day that it was just as well his engagement with
Miss Britton was broken off, and naturally he
didn't like it.'

sardonic bit his lip. He would have given
much to have refrained from introducing the
subject, and he thought Madame Merlino showed
very bad taste in speaking of it before Comerio,
while, to make matters worse, Carlo happened
just then to come into the room.

Now, Comerio had his back to the door, but
he could see all that was passing in the mirror,
and he was quick to seize the opportunity of
wounding his foe.

'Miss Britton, the beautiful English girl?'
he exclaimed. * Yes, yes ; I saw her only the
other day. She's quite the rage just now at
Naples.'

Sardoni glanced from the cold, clever, cruel
face of Conierio to the face of his friend. The
swords evidently stung Carlo. He paused for a
minute with his hand on the door, but quickly
regaining a composure that under the circumstances
Alas masterly, he came forward, greeted
Comerio in his ceremonious Italian way, and
contrived to keep the conversation prcttj' much
in his own hands throughout the call. Sardoni,
in his careless, easy fashion, helped him not a
little by making a running fire of jests and bad
puns, while all the time he was studying that
strange trio who beneath his eyes were acting so
grave a drama  Nita, nervous and excited;
Comerio, with his contemptible hatred and contemptible
love showing occasionally through the
thin veneer of ordinary politeness ; and the
Knight-errant himself, with his manly, alert-looking
face, and his enviable way of saying
the right thing at the right minute.

Certainly, Comerio gained little that afternoon
; but his pursuit had unsettled Anita, and
though Carlo could not make out that she saw
him except every now and then in the greenroom

when many others were present, yet ho
knew that there had never been a time when
his hopes had so nearly been defeated.

It was some relief to get away from London,
for in the provinces he felt that the sword of
Damocles was not so immediately above them.
In the meantime, however, his cough grew worse,
and he began to look very delicate  at least, so
thought Gomez and Sardoni, the only two people
who really watched him.

It was one night at Birmingham that Gouu'Z
managed to give his enemy' the sharpest stab he
had yet delivered. For some days Carlo had
been in wretched voice, and on this particular
evening he was conscious that his performance
had been worse than usual. He came into the
green-room feeling worn-out and dispirited.
Gomez, Sardoni, Nita, and two or three others,
were grouping about trio fire. ]Sita, in lier
elder-sisterly fashion, began to upbraid him.

You sang execrably, Carlo !' she said,
thrusting her little diiiutily-sliud foot nearer
the blaze, and looking far from pleasant as she
lifted her bright, cold eyes to his. 'You put

inc out altogether in that hist scone. It's intolerable
! '

I urn sorry I put you out he said, with
the pained look Which he seldom managed noah
to repress when Nita attacked him.

Don't discourage him ; that's not fair on a
beginner ! ' said Gomez. * See, Donati, there's
a critique on your "Rigoletto" in the evening
paper.'

And he handed it to him with a sarcastic
little bow.

Too bad ! too bad I ' exclaimed some of the
others ; but they laughed nevertheless, for the
new baritone had hitherto received nothing but
praise, and they thought a change of diet Avould
be good for him, while to them it was undoubtedly
sweet.

Carlo took the paper without a word, and
read the notice through, knowing quite swell that
Gomez would not have drawn his attention to it
had the criticism been favourable. It was nut
his way to pretend to be indifferent to the Press ;
he did care for the praise or blame or suggestion,
and never tried to disguise his feeling:, tliouyh

nothing would have induced hiiu to \viu favourable
notices by any efforts of bis own. Criticism
lead, however, nnicli to do with bis future, and
on bis success bingcd all bis plans for Nita's
protection ; so that be fully recognised tbc fact
so well put by Macready, that * VTc cannot
read our history in a nation's eyes," but wo
can in tbc daily papers.'

It is quite true,' be said, throwing dol tbc
journal with a stifled sigh. ' I acted badly last
night and sang worse. They bave every reason
to pitch into me.'

Tbc fact is, you're not fit to sing at all,'
said Gomez, affecting a tone of friendly advice.
You are ill, and need a long rest.'

No, no,' said Carlo, quickly ; * it's nothing
but this awful climate. I shall be all right
when it gets warmer. I mean to go in for an
Amraoniaphone, and see if manufactured Italian
air won't work wonders.'

'AVell,' said Gomez, ' Comerio prophesies that
be shall go to America with us next September,
and I believe his prophecy will come true.'

Carlo glanced at bis sister, and read in her

face excitement  even, he fancied, hope. He
was deeply wounded, as Sardoni, who had been
idly looking on without taking any part in the
talk, could see.

Ladies and gentlemen for the last act I '
announced the call-boy ; and the little group
round the fire dispersed.

Carlo, whoso part in the opera was over, left
the green-room with Anita, Walking with her to
the wings.

I hope I shall be able to stay with you,' he
said, in a low voice, feeling that he must win
from her some word which woidd contradict the
look he feared he had seen in her face.

'Do you?' she said, coldly. 'It is satisfactory
to sec how you like the life. I should
have thought, now your voice has gone off so
much, you would have been glad enough if
Merlino chooses to end your engagement in the
summer. For my part, I wish he would ! '

The tone of bitter dislike in which she spoke
was more than he could bear. lie turned away,
and shut himself into his dressing-room, where
presently Sardoni found him, with his arms on

the mantelpiece, his face hidden, and his whole
frame shaken with sobs,

'Why, A'all' exclaimed this friend, 'lias that
brute of a Spaniard vexed you so much ? '

Go, p;o I' he exclaimed vehemently in Italian.
You can't understand I '

I'll be hanged if I go I' said sardonic, laying
a hand on his shoulder. ' Bless your innocence I
do you think no Englishman has ever shed tears ?
I know what it was ; it was not Gomez  it was
something Madame !Mcrlino said to you just
now.'

Carlo raised his head, thrust both hands
through his hair, and, still keeping his face
hidden, said in a voice which struggled in vain
to steady itself, 

She hopes it will be as he said. She wishes
me to go. It is all of no use ; I can do nothing
for her  nothing I '

Now, look here I ' said Sardoni ; ' it's not a
bit of good for you to try to think rationally
lo-night. You are bothered by that critique, and
by your bad reception just now, and by that
brute Gomez  and by a hundred other things,

likely enough. Yo\i just shelve it all till tomorrow
; and come and have some oysters with
mc, and then go lo bed like a Christian.'

Carlo made an effort to recover himself, and
before long was walking home arm in arm with
Sardoni, his hat pulled over his eyes.

The fact is, old fellow, you're a long bit too
.sensitive for knocking about with men of the
calibre of Gomez and Comerio/ said Sardoni.
'However, you would never act as j'ou do if
you weren't sensitive, so it cuts both ways.'

'For oneself it pays better to call it being
thin-skinned,' said Carlo, regaining his matter-of-fact
tone. ' Once humour your emotional side,
and you are lost. I don't know how I came to
break down just now. This east Avind plays the
very devil with one. "When do you think it will
change ? '

Oh, very soon now,' said Sardoni, drawing
on his imagination, for they were not half
through March.

You don't think it is true what Gomez
.'iaid  you don't think I am really losing my
voice?' said Carlo, longing for Sardoni to contradict

the conviction that was becoming a daily
torment to lii.s mind.

Not a bit of it ! ' said the Englishman,
cheerfully ; ' nothing but the climate. Keep up
your heart, old boy ! you'll soon be used to it,
and then you can snap your fingers at Comerio
and the rest of them. You may be quite sure
that Merlino won't part with you in a hurry.
Why you are his ace of trumps ! '

And all the time Sardoni knew that his friend
was on the verge of a breakdown ; and Carlo
himself suspected as much, yet found a sort of
comfort in having his fears reasoned away.

"We have all of us been glad at one time or
another to win through a dreary bit of life by
the help of illusions, even though we partly
guessed that they were illusions all the time.

CHAPTER VII.

A RESCUER.

Such was the life thou livest, self-abjuring',

Thine own pains never easing,
Our burdens bearing, our just doom enduring
life without self-pleasing.'

Fane.

Mr. George Breton was a man who seldom
ate the bread of idleness, and since his hurried
visit to Naples in the early summer his holidays
had been few and far between. A cruise of a
few days in the Pi /[/rim before the close of the
yachting season had been all he could snatch
from his busy life, for he was one of those men
who are always going out of their way to help
other people, and this cannot be done without
an expenditure of time and labour which is often
scarcely realised. He was so kind-hearted, so
genial a man, that he numbered his friends by
hundreds ; and his life brought him into contact
with such hosts of people that it was often
vol n. M

all he could do to remember the names of those
he had helped, to say nothing of their faces.
He had not, however, altogether forgotten Carlo
Donati ; more than once he had thought of his
pretty niece's ill-fated love-story, but having
promised to say nothing about it, even to Miss
Claremont, he had thought it best to mention
Carlo's name as little as possible.

Yes, I savs him,* had been his cautious reply
to Clare's questions ; ' but the Signora Donati is
dead, and I fancy there will not be so much
communication between the two houses now. I
myself liked the fellow very much, but he has
some political ideas which annoy' my brother.'

That was all that had passed with regard to
Carlo during the nine months which had since
gone by. Clare felt a little sorry and disappointed
as she realised how hard it is not to grow
apart from old friends whom there is no chance
of meeting ; but she remembered that it was the
way of the world, and that in her wandering
life she must try to be content with touching
people closely for the time, and then passing off
the scene to make room for fresh comers. It

crossed her mind once or twice to write to Carlo
and send him her sympathy in his trouble about
his mother ; but such letters are hard to write,
and she was so busy that somehow the time never
came. She contented herself with inquiring
after him in her next letter to Francesca ; but
Francesca was a shockingly bad correspondent,
and when, in two months' time, she replied to
the letter she made no mention at all of Carlo.

Mr. Britton's business often took him from
Ashborough, where his own works were carried
on, to a place in the neighbouring county 
Mardentown ; and one cold, dreary, March afternoon
he was pacing the platform of the Martens
station, waiting for the train that was to
take him home. lie was not alone. One of his
inane acquaintances had walked to the station to
see him off, and was pouring out some of his own
troubles into the shipbuilder's sympathetic ears,
when he became conscious that his friend wife
not listening quite so attentively as usual, and
following the direction of his eyes, exclaimed, 

Oh ! you are noticing those Italians. I
thought they all went off yesterday : there was

quite a crowd of tlieni last night. It'sau Operatic
Company ; that's the Impresario, that sullen-faced
man with a black beard ; and that's his wife, the
pri/iKf donna of the party. I suppose the rank
and file went off yesterday and left a few of the
swells behind.'

Curious,' said Mr. Britton, glancing again at
the little group ; ' that fellow is like a man I met
at Naples last year ! But, after all, foreigners
always look more or less alike. He's a handsome
fellow ; isn't he ? '

The young one, do you mean ? Yes, but too
small ; that's always the way with Italians. He
looks bigger on the stage, though. I saw him
the other night in Murtu. AVhat on earth was he
called  Sardoni ? No ; that was the tenor. I
forget. One mixes up these outlandish names
so. Look, they are sending him to the bookstall
to get the local papers ; no doubt they want to
read the criticisms on their singing.'

The talk turned once more upon other matters,
and the two friends paced up the platform ; then,
warned by the big bell that the train was coming
into the station, retraced their steps.

'Good Heavens I ' exclaimed Mr. Brit ton,
clutching his friend's ann. ' Look ! A child
on the line ! '

He rushed down the platform, while at the
same instant warning cries, shouts, and a heartrending
shriek in a woman's voice, filled the air.
It was all over in a few seconds, and yet there
seemed time to take in all the details  the horror
of the spectators, the utter helplessness of the
child himself, who stood terrified and bewildered,
hearing the shouts, seeing the train approaching,
and yet too completely' paralysed by fear to move,
literally frightened out of his wits. Mr. Britten
dashed on and had almost reached the spot when
a slight, lithe figure darted across the platform
in front of him; it was a wonder that they did
not knock each other over, but the Italian just
swerved to the left in time, leapt down on to the
railroad, and ran like the wind to the rescue of
the child. There was a moment of intense pain
to all the spectators ; people held their breath ;
would the child be saved, or would he and his
rescuer be cut down together ? The chances
seemed about even : not a little depended on the

man's strength, and the child might, no doubt,
help or hinder his own rescue. The train was
slackening speed, yet it seemed to advance with
a rapidity that was frightful to watch. It was
almost upon the child; the women hid their
faces, the men strained their eyes to see what
would happen, while the rescuer gave a cry', at
the sound of which the child turned, ran a step
or two with uplifted hands, and was caught up in
the strong arms of the man who had saved it
from death. The next instant they were in the
six-foot way, and the train passed on and hid
them from view.

Mr. Britton drew a deep breath, and, now that
the horror of the moment was over, foul time
to wonder at the cowardice of the .spectators.
There were several men on the platform, some of
them far nearer than he had been at the time the
alarm had been given ; but no one had rushed
instantly to the rescue except himself and the
young Italian who had intercepted him.

Of course,' he overheard one num remark to
another, ' I made sure the people who belonged
to him would save the poor little beggar. They

say he's the child of Merlinoo, but if so, Merlinoo
did nothing but shout and tear his hair. Look
here ! there'll just be time for a 
; I declare it's given me quite a turn.'

The speakers ran at full speed to the ,
and Mr. Britton, with indignation in
his heart, turned to see whether the rescuer was
in sight again. He was at that moment appearing
at the far end of the platform, the child
still in his arms. Mr. Britton joined in the
eager little crowd which speedily surrounded
him ; but every one was talking and asking
questions, so he held his peace, onh' looking and
listening and feeling strongly draA to the
young Italian, who seemed not to consider himself
at all in the light of a hero, or to be
troubled by the fear that the spectators might
do so. An Englishman's first impulse would
liavc been to escape from the eyes of the crowd ;
the Italian seemed not to consider at all what
the onlookers might think of him ; he was a little
flushed and excited and much taken up with the
child, who clung to him and refused to be given
to his father.

The clear little fellow,' said Merlino, kissing
his son, with tears in his eyes. ' He is not hurt ?
You are sure he is not hurt 'i '

'Not a bit, only frightened. How in the
world did he get down there ?'

'He owes his life to you, sir,' said the stationmaster
; * I never saw a closer shave ! '

*It seemed almost upon us,' said Carlo, 'relentless
as Juggernaut,'

But, though lie did not under-estimate the
danger, it did not appear to make him feel the
need of a brandy-and-soda. lie turned in the
most practical and matter-of-fact way to choose a
carriage.

You get in, Nita,' he said, opening the door,
'and I'll give you Gigi on your lap.'

Mr. Britton, puzzled at the comparative indifference
of the mother, took possession of a
corner-scat in the same carriage, and felt reliance
to sec that as she took the child lie bent down
and covered this face with kisses. In truth, poor
Nita in tluit moment of horror had for the first
time realised what the loss of her child would be
to her ; the agony of seeing him in danger, without

being able to stir a finger to save him, h;i(l
touched into life the motherly love which till now
had lain dormant in her heart. But the shock
had almost stunned her for the time, and it Alas
not till she held Gigi in her arms that any sign
of feeling escaped her. Carlo's face lighted up ashe
saw how closely she held the little fellow, and
both he and Merlino were so much taken up with
the child, that it was not till just the last minute
that they thought of the luggage.

Did you see it in, Gomez ':" ' asked Carlo,
turning to the Spaniard who had ensconced himself
comfortably in the corner opposite ]Mr. Britton,
and beside Mile, de Caisne.

I ? No, I imagined you had given directions,'
replied Gomez, with the most irritating air of
calm dignity.

Carlo sprang up and put his head out of the
window.

*It is gone,' he said ; * it must be all right.'

Ah, but my bag ! ' exclaimed Nita. ' You
really might think of tidings for me I I must
have left it on one of the benches.'

The train was on the point of starting, Carlo

flung open the door and rustic in search of the
lost property, while Merlino, fuming with impatience
and anxiety, hurried across the carriage
to look from the window,

Santo (Uavolo ! we are moving ! ' he exclaimed.
' What induced you to be so careless,
Nita I Valentino will be left behind  he'll be
too late for the opera. There ! I told yon so,'
as the train steamed on relentlessly, and a porter
closed the door with an authoritative bang,
regarding neither the nerves nor the anxieties
of the travellers.

There's not a creature who can take his
part to-night, you know there's not, and Marionii
won't have rehearsed anything else,' stormed
Merlino, swearing at his wife, and wholly disregarding
the presence of a stranger. The babel
that ensued was deafening, Gigi adding not a
little to the confusion by bursting into tears,
and crying as only children of that age can cry.
Mr. Britton began to wish that he had chosen
another carriage, yet was obliged to own that
these people interested him, and that there was
something rather amusing in this glimpse of life

behind the scenes. He got out his fraiii-book to
sec whether there was any other train which
would bring the missing singer away from
Mardentown in time for the opera, and wondered
whether these people were going to Ash-borough,
or to its near neighbour and rival,
Queenbury.

Just at this minute, however, the train
stopped at a suburban station, and, to the relief
and astonishment of all, Carlo suddenly appeared
at the door.

Where on earth did you come from 'i ' exclaimed
Merlino.

The guard's van,' said Carlo, taking the
vacant place beside Mr. Britton, and evidently
perceiving that the atmosphere was disturbed,
I am afraid I gave you all a fright, but there
was no chance of getting back to you, only just
lime to make a dash at the last carriage. I seem
fated to run races with the train to-day.'

There is nothing more strangely trying than
the sudden reaction after great anxiety. Merlino,
whose temper was always irritable, was now in
the worst possible humour ; the very perception

that he owed a deep debt of gratitude to this
brother-in-law chafed him into greater rudeness
and harshness. As for Carlo, when he had put
the bag up in the netting, he resigned himself
to the inevitable, and bore the storm for the most
part in silence, interposing a word or two when
he thought it would be any use, but knowing too
M'cU that Merlino in this sort of humour must be
allowed to have his fling, and that any sort of
argument would only make matters worse.

At the first opportunity ho took Gigi on his
knee, and drawing a little further from Merlino,
and nearer to Mr. Britton, began to do what he
could to check the loud crying, which was irritating
both the father and mother, and which
had resisted all Nita's coaxing and Morlinij's
threatening.

'See, Gigi, you must be quiet,' he said,
lowering his voice a little.

I thought you were lost,' sobbed the child ;
1 was so frightened,  and  and I've lost my
poor, dear, little soldier ! '

Alien he had recounted this catalogue of
woes his tears rained down faster than ever.

You shall have another. Where did you
lose it?'

It dropped down where the train goes, and
I jumped down to look for it, but I couldn't see
it nowhere, and then they shouted, and the train
came by.'

Well,' said Carlo, holding the child closer,
you must never get off the platform again at a
station ; and as to the little soldier, why we will
get a new one tomorrow at Ashborough. See,
dry yoxir eyes, and be a man, and then we will
hear about Lionbruno if you like.'

I didn't want Lionbruno,' said Gigi.
'Well, then, the "Fair Florida," or the

"Fairy Orlando," or shall it be about Buckets
and the Ogre?'

I think I'd like about Giucca, and " eat, my
clothes, eat ! " ' said Gigi.

Very well,' said Carlo. And in English,
since that was the language which Gigi liked
best to talk, but with all the graphic imagery of
an Italian, he told the story of Giucca's two
visits to the farm ; of how in his poor clothes
they drove him away with scorn, but when he

came in velvet vest and gay raiment they invited
him to dinner ; and how in irony he had put the
food in his hat and in his pockets, saying, * Eat,
my clothes, eat ! for j'ou were invited,'  taking
care to make a good dinner for himself into the
bargain.

Another,' said Gigi, when this story was
ended. By this time Merlino and his wife had
settled down into their respective corners, !Merlino
and Gomez had taken up their papers, Nita and
Mile, de Caisne appeared to sleep ; of the
stranger Carlo had taken scarcely any notice,
nor would it have embarrassed him, probably
had he known that Mr. Britton was listening
to the stories quite as attentively as was
Gigi.

'What shall it be? "The Shepherd who
made the King's daughter laugh ? " ' asked
Carlo.

'No,' said Gigi, 'I'm so tired; I'd like to
have about // Criafo.'

Which story do you want ? '

Something new,' said the child. ' I'm so
tired,  so tired.'

"Well, once upon Ji time,' began Carlo, who
had no feeling at all as to the mixture of sacred
and secular,  ' once upon a time, II Cri.sfo was
very tired, he had been going about from town
to town you must know, and in the towns he
never had a minute's quiet, for, of course, the
people wanted to see him, and all day long they
were coming and going, and talking and asking
his help, so that he had no rest, and not even
time to eat.'

That's like you, zio caro,' put in Gigi.

'And just at this time ho was sad as well as
tired ; for you must know that in that country
was a bad king, and this one had taken one of
// Cn'ufo's friends, with whom he used to jilay
when he was a little boy, and had shut him up
in a great, gloomy old castle by the side of a
lake, and when he had kept him in prison a longtime
he sent his soldiers one evening and ordered
the good man's head to be cut off. When II
Crisp heard that his friend was dead you can
fancy how sad he was, and how he wanted to be
alone for a little while out of the hurry and the
rush of the town : and he knew that his followers,

too, were tired, for they Ind been travelling
about, and bad had bard work to do.'

Were they in bis troupe, do you mean 'i '
asked Gigi.

Not exactly ; but they travelled about with
him ; they were the men who tried hardest todo
what he said. And just before this they had
been travelling by themselves, which was much
harder than travelling with // Crinto.'

Did. they travel on stuffy cars like this ? *

No, there were no cars then ; most likely
they walked, and it was hot like a furnace, and
the sun beat down on their heads and the dust
came in great clouds, and when they got back to
the town they were tired out. Then Jl Cri-sho
saw how it Mas with them, and he said, *' Come
away from the town and the hurry and bustle,
come right away into the country and have a
rest."

Then they were glad, and he took them iu
a ship to a place where he thought they would be
quiet  a nice country place.'

I guess it was like Salem,' said Gigi, sot to
voce.

But-when they got there, "wliy, what do you
think ? the people from the towns had got there
before them by a quicker Avay, and there was a
crowd waiting for them which you shoukl ha-ve
seen ! '

Then the troupe didn't get a holiday after
all?'

Yes, but they did. // Crinto took the work
himself, and they rested, and just heard him
talk.'

I guess they liked that better than walking
in the sun,' said Gigi, thoughtfully. 'Why do
you know, zio, I feel kind o' rested listening to
you here in this car ; and they had the country
and // Crinio too. Do you think he would
have been like that to tired men in our profession
? '

Why, yes, of course,' said Carlo, smiling a
little at the way the child identified himself with
the troupe.

*I wish he'd take us to a country place.
You look kind o' tired. I think he might.'
So he will when we really need it.'
Did II Cri>i(o travel about always like we

VOL. II. N

do? And do you think lie got nasty hotels
and liunpy beds ? '

Often no bed at all ; lie said so once, not
grumbling you know, he never grumbled.'

We do sometimes, don't we, when they're
real bad ? '

Yes ; but he made the best of things, and
thought of other people before himself ; so now,
you see, when he was tired and said ho first took
care of the followers, and gave them a rest, and
then gave the great crowd of people a real good
time, and let them come and talk to hiiu, and
cured the ones who were sick, and taught them
how to be good, and before he sent them home
again gave them plenty to eat.'

'I guess I'm rather hungry just now,' said
Gigi. * May I have a brown dog ? '

A 'brown dog' proved to be a substantial-looking
biscuit, and by the time this had been
discussed Gigi had groan sleepy. Gomez at the
next station changed to a smoking carriage, and
Carlo, taking possession of his empty corner,
made the child comfortable, and suggested a
sU'std, while Mr. liritton was glad to have an

opportunity of studying his features at leisure,
and trying to compare them with his recollections
of Carlo Donati when he had last met him. lie
saw that there was a likeness, yet at the same
time a great difference, and this Signor Valentine,
as he fancied his name to be, had a look of
strength about him which Donati had lacked. It
was hard to describe the great fascination of the
face, the curves of the smooth cheeks and chin
were beautiful, the dark moustache so slight that
it did not hide the finely chiselled lips ; the forehead
was specially developed just above the eyebrows,
the ear small and set high up in the shapely
head, while the rouli, dark hair, the hi<>li cheekbones,
and the deep, brown eyes would alone have
stamped him as an Italian. He had pulled his
red Phrygian train-cap to a comfortable angle,
and lead leant back in the corner, With the child
still hi his anus. Mr. Written could have wished
that he had not chosen to go to sleep, for he
would have liked to talk with him, and, perhaps,
to say a word or two about his prompt rescue of
the little boy, but he was evidently tired, and
though from time to time he raised his eyelids

and glanced out of the window at the country
through which they were passing, he never
seemed to notice his English travelling companion,
or to have the slightest wish to talk.
In fact. Carlo had for the time being forgotten
his present surroundings altogether, Gigi's words
had returned to him : ' I wish he'd take us to a
country place.' Now there were times when his
longing for Italy was the keenest of pains, but
there were also times when the mere recollection
of his old home made him very happy. It was
thus this afternoon ; half asleep, half awake, his
mind went back to the old familiar scenes ; he
saw the blue bay of Baja, and the pearly grey
mountains of Ischia, and the smiling campania,
and the near hills, with their outlines broken
here and there by umbrella pines. Then he
wandered down the long, shady walks of the
Casa Bella garden, and once more Francesca was
with him, and just then the recollection of her
was enough to make him happy ; there were
times when he hardly dared to think of her at
all ; tliore were times when memory was anguish,
but there were also times when he could smile to

himself with the happiness of the mere thought
that Francesca lived and that he loved her.

'Is this Ashborough?' asked Nita from the
other end of the carriage.

lie was startled back into the present by a
voice which seemed to him to be Captain
Britten's.

Yes ; this is Ashborough, madam.'

Could this traveller be the Captain's brother
the ' Uncle George '  whose arrival at Naples
he so well remembered ?

lie felt uncertain. It might be only that
his half-dreamy recollections of Casa Bella had
made him fancy some familiar tone in this
Englishman's voice. It was hardly likely that
Mr. Britton should happen to get into the same
carriage With them. Besides, he had never
connected him with the neighbourhood of Ash-borough
: he fancied Merlcbank was in another
county. And even if this should indeed be
Francesca's uncle, woidd it be very desirable
to introduce himself under the circumstances?

While he wondered what to do, the train had
steamed into the station, and his doubts were

solved and his opportunity lost at the same
moment. someone on the platform recognised
the gre3'-bearded Englishman, and threw open
trio carriage-door.

Ila, Britton ! arc you here ? I'm just off
to Queenbury, and will take your vacant i)lacc.'

Idiom' are you P' said the Englishman, with a
hearty grip of the hand. 'Any of my peojolo
here, do you know?'

'The carriage wasn't up just now; hindered,
very likely ; the town is in an awful confusion 
the races on Monday, 3'ou know.'

Carlo heard no more. He had to carry Gigi
to the nearest fly, and the flies seemed scarce and
mostly engaged. When at length he had secured
one, and made over Gigi to his mother, he had
to rush off and see to the luggage, and there was
no time to think any more of his own plans.

In the meantime, however, Mr. Britton had
not lost sight of him. He felt strangely curious
as to the movements of these operatic people,
and being obliged to wait till his own carriage
came up, he strolled to and fro, glancing now
out f>f the station at the driving"; rain and the

chilly larc'b night, now at his late companions.
As usual, it appeared that * Signer Valent ino '
(lid the work, the others all crowded into the one
available fly, and sat impatiently waiting while
he hunted up truant trunks and portmanteaux.

What an age you have been ! ' was the
greeting he received. ' You can't get in here I
Perhaps there'll be another fly by this time. Do
you think the man can take all the luggage outside
? '

It'll have to,' was the reply. ' There's
nothing else to be had nor any chance of getting
anything. It seems it is the race week.'

Can't you change places with him, Signer
Gomez ?' said Nita, for once in lier life prompted
to think for her brother. 'His cough is so bad
he oughtn't to be out on such a night.'

Gomez made a dignified excuse, and suggested
that if they delayed any longer it would be impossible
to dine before the opera.

And by-the-by, Yal, my dear fellow, just
stop in passing at the theatre,' exclaimed Merlinoo
; 'you'll notice it on your way to the hotel,
and might just see that all is right there.*

Very well. Is my umbrella handy ? '
They gave it to him and drove off, while

Carlo began to '\rap up his throat in a huge
muffler, looking distastefully enough at the dark,
muddy street, and the torrents of rain. He was
just about to set off on his wet walk when, on
turning to ask the nearest way to the hotel, he
suddenly confronted Mr. Britton.

I am expecting ni' carriage every minute,'
said the Englishman, in his kindly voice, Which,
but for the absence of the slight tone of patronage,
would have been exactly like Captain
Britten's. ' I hope you'll allow me to drive
you to your hotel.'

You are most kind,' said Carlo. ' I should
indeed be very grateful ; but perhaps I ought to
tell you '

lie was interrupted. Mr. Britton, glancing
roimd to sec if the carriage had come, chanced
to notice a huge advertisement of Signor
merlin's Operatic Company, and his eye was
instantly caught b}- a name in large black
letters  SiGXOu Caui.o Boxati.

I must bog a thousand pardons, Signor

Donati, for not recognising you before ! ' lie
exclaimed, shaking him heartily liy the hand.
I thought I knew your face on the IMarden-
town platform, but I heard them call you by
the name of Valentino, and, moreover, had not
the slightest idea that you were in England or
that you had changed your profession.'

'The change "seas only just decided on when
you left Naples, sir,' said Carlo, his colour rising
a little. * I hope you have good accounts from
Casa Bella ? '

He tried to subdue the eagerness of his tone,
but it was some time since he had heard from
Enrico, and the thought of hearing of Francesca
in so much more direct a way made every' pulse
in him beat feverishly.

Very good, indeed,' said mr. Britton. ' They
all seem well. Francesca is coming to stay with
us in the summer, I believe. It was an old promise,
and I think the change will be good for
her. Here is the carriage, at last. Now Jam
quite at your disposal. Shall we call first at the
theatre, and then shall I drop you at your hotel ?
Or are you, too, in a hurry to get your dinner ? '

lie h;i(l kindly made a rather Iciigtliy spcceb,
because lie saw how much the Italian was moved
hy his reference to Francesca. Carlo asked to
stop at the theatre, and Mr, Britton, who understood
now that his brother's objection to tho
marriage had had to do with the stage and not
at all with political matters, determined to show
that he, at any rate, did not share in his prejudice.


I suppose Valentino is just a nickname ; it
misled me altogether,' he said. * But for that I
think I should have spoken to you, and asked, at
any rate, whether you were related to Signer
Donati, the Neapolitan advocate.'

Carlo smiled. Not for many months had he
had such a pleasure as that friendly talk with
Francesca's imcle.

It is the name of what is supposed to be my
best part  Valentino in Fdimt, ' he explained.

I see. Well, I must manage to hear you
in it. It is twenty years and more since 1
heard an opera.'

'Then j-ou have never heard "Faust?' exclaimed
Carlo, almost incredulously. *"\Ve are

to give it to-night ; may I really have the
pleasure of getting-oii an order?'

You are very good ; I should like nothing
better,' said mr. Britton, fully understanding
that since his lady-love could not be present to
hear him the next best thing was to have her
old uncle, who might possibly tell her something
about it. ITe felt convinced that such a thought
had flashed through the young man's mind, and
liked him the better for it, because, after all, it
was so human, so precisely what he himself would
have felt at four-and-twenty.

'You have a very bad cough !' he exclaimed,
quite agreeing with the prima donna that Donati
had no business to be out on such a night.

'Oh, it is only chronic!' said Carlo, lightly,
as if that made it an affair of no account. ' Is
tin's the theatre ? Will you then come in with
me, and choose your place for to-night ?'

The ticket chosen, Carlo and Mr. Britton made
their way through long and not particularly
clean passages to the region behind the scenes.
Here all seemed confusion ; carpenters and scene-shifters
hurried to and fro ; there was a babel of

talking, shouting, hammering ; and Carlo's arrival
was evidently hailed as a relief by the man in
authority, who came quickly up to him to explain
some difficulty that had arisen, and to ask
whether Merlino would soon be at the theatre.
Mr. Britton, meantime, was learning that scenery
and stage illusions were disenchanting enough
when nearly viewed, and in his own mind was
wondering whether anything could possibly teach
him to walk respectably on the sloping stage.
It was evident that Carlo was a practical man,
for his suggestions were received as orders, and
something like method began to be traceable in
what had at first seemed the wildest chaos.

I must not keep you waiting any longer,' ho
said, after a few minutes, coming up to Mr.
Britton ; ' thank you for all your kindness. They
seem to have got behindhand here, and I must
stay and help them a little.'

Will you not come and dine with me at the
club?' said Mr. Britton : * it is close by.'

You are very good,' said Carlo, looking at his
watch, 'but, to tell the truth, it is too late for me
to dine now. T shouldn't be able to sing if I did.*

I hope you don't intend to starve yourself
said the Englishman. * surely that can't be good
for the voice.'

No,' said Carlo, laughing ; * I shall send out
for some oysters, or perhaps take a raw egg or
two.' Then, seeing Mr. Britten's look of commiseration,
he laughed. * You know we make up
for it at supper. I shall be as hungry as a hunter
by the time the opera is over,'

Then I cannot take you to the hotel ?'
I think not, thank you ; I must be here for
the present. When all is ready I dare say I
shall run and see that Gigi is none the worse for
his fright, but they tell mo it is close by. You
will remember me to Miss Claremont.'

She will be delighted to hear you are in
England ; you must come over to see us at
Merlebank ; we are not much more than two
miles from the town. Good-bye then for the
present, and I hope you'll find the little boy has
suffered no ill effects.'

It was not till nearly eight o'clock that Carlo
could snatch a minute to run and see after Gigi ;
hurrying along the wet and cheerless street he

made this way to the liotol, and on the doorstep
came suddenly iipou Sardonic, who had gone on to
Ashborough on the previous night with the rest
of the troupe.

So here you are at kst,' he exclaimed, ' doing
the dirty work as usual, I see. How are you,
Val? I declare you look better.'

In truth, the meeting with Mr. ]written and
the pleasure of having rescued Gigi had acted asa
sort of stimulus, and Carlo, spite of a very
tiring day, felt better than he had dune for sumo
months past.

I'm as strong as a horse,' he said, laughing,
should come in neck and neck with the winner
of the Moonshine Handicap on Monday. Where
is Gigi?'

Sitting on the stairs when I last saw him ;
the place is packed, and I'm afraid they won't
have given you much of a room ; Gomez snapped
up the only decent one.'

Carlo waited for no more, but ran upstairs
till he came upon the disconsolate figure of the
little boy.

Have you had something to eat, iiiio caro ?*

lie asked, taking the cliikl in his arms and carving
him on.

Yes, but there's no bed for fine,' said Gigi,
piteously.

How's that ? one was ordered. "Where
have they put my portmanteau ? '

Up at the top,' said Gigi, mournfully, ' In
No. G2 ; but there's no bed for me.'

Carlo rang to inquire, only to be told that, the
house being quite full for the race week, no more
beds were available; and the only room, No. G2,
proved to be a servant's room vacated just for the
occasion, a dismal little place under the roof,
smelling strongly of stale ham sandwiches. In
the corner was one narrow truckle-bed.

Never mind, (iii,' said Carlo, passing his
arm round the child's neck, and waking a smile
on the dismal little face; 'you've slept in the
overland trunk before now. Let us see if you
have grown too long for it ; you know it was
rather fun last time. Yes ? '

Gigi measured himself by the trunk, to the
infinite amusement of the chamber-maid, who
volunteered to find him a pair of sheets.

]3ut ass to blankets, sir, they're every blessed
one of beni in use,' sbe added.

Never mind, one of mine doubled will do for
him,' said Carlo, ruthlessly stripping the truckle-bed.
* Now, Gigi, unlock the trunk for me, and
we'll just turn the things out on the floor and
make room for you.'

Gigi thought this fine fmi ; and what with
pillows and blanket from the truckle-bed, and
clean sheets which the chambermaid brought hot
from the fire, the improvised crib was comfortable
enough. But to Carlo it somehow suggested a
coffin, and the thought of the danger the child had
been in made him shudder as he bent down to kiss
him.

'I do love you so,' said Gigi, clinging to him
with all his might. And Carlo hurried back to
the theatre with the words ringing in his ears,
and the feeling of the little child's arms still about
his neck.

CHAPTER VIII.

But wliL'ii I met him he was still the same ;
The quiet, happy face that lighted up
As from a sunshine in the heart swithin,
Rejoicing whomsoever looked on it,
But far more-whomsoever it looked on.'

ZTV/o Bassi: Mrs. Hamilton Kixc;.

The schoolroom at Mciiebank was one of those
comfortable, nondescript sort of rooms, which liavc
;i charm for most people ; it was a room Avlicrc you
slid uot feel bound to be on your best behaviour, 
a room where you could read with both elbows on
the table, or lounge in unconventional ease by the
fireside. It was essentially a snug room, its green
brussels carpet was comfortably shabby, its curtains
w ere old-fashioned and faded, its walls were
crowded with frameless oil-paintings, which the
girls had brought home from the School of Art,
and the books in its crowded book-shelves had
evidently seen good service. Miss Claremont loved
VOL. II. o

the room, and it was in a great measure her
presence which helped to make it one of the
plcasautest retreats in the house. In lesson hours
she knew well enough how to make any unwary
visitor feel himself de trop, but at all otlicr times,
on half-holidays, or on Sundays, or in the long
evenings, she liked nothing better than to sit and
talk to anyone who chose to seek her out. Slice
had now been at Merlebank for many years, and
had y-iven to each of the children the ' mothcrino; '
they so much needed. In person Clare was short
and slight, she was an insigniticant-looking little
Avomau, and took scant pains with her dress.
But all these details were observed only by
strangers; to those who knew her she was just
Clare,' the one being in the world whose sympathy
was always available, the only i)crson who
could brighten up a dull dinner, or entertain
stupid visitors, or find good points in those whom
the girls themselves condemned as odiously
vulgar.

All the troubles and anxieties of the household
gravitated by a natural law to the schoolroom.
Clare would sit by the fire in winter, or bv the

open window in summer, and would listen to Mr.
Britton's anxieties about the children, or to the
grandmother's grief about her failing eyesight, or
to Kate's difficulties in her district, or to the boys'
hopes and fears with regard to examinations, or
first loves, or vanished pocket-money. Her clear,
light-blue eyes could sparkle with fun, or grow
soft with pity, or become thoughtful and impatient,
as she weighed the pros and cons of some puzzling
question ; she was the lost delightful of confidantes,
and her wide circle of friends did not
scruple to work her pretty hard, for Clare was
always supposed to like to hear everyone's woes.
Probably she really did like it, and few went away
from her uncomforted, for somehow you were apt
to leave the schoolroom feeling as if she had
removed a crape veil from before Amour eyes,
so that the most common and trivial matters of
every-day life became far more interesting than
you had imagined them to be.

Late on that March evening Mr. Britton, returning
from Ashborough, made all speed towards
the schoolroom, and, as he had hoped, found Clare
still sitting over the fire reading.

The children have all gone to bed,' she explained
; ' Kate waited till half-past ten, but she
was tired with her choir practice.'

'I am glad to find you up,' said Mr. Brit ton,
fur I have a message to you from an old friend of
yours, who, to my great astonishment, proves to
be in England.'

Not Francesca ! ' exclaimed Clare.

Her next-door neighbour, young Donati ; he
sends you his kind regards and is very anxious to
see you.'

'Well, that is really a delightful surprise,'
said Clare. * I should like so much to meet him
again, for as a boy he interested me a good deal.
What can have brought him to England ?'

*He has developed a voice, and has turned
into an operatic singer. That quite explains my
brother's determination to have less to do with him,
for you know the Captain disapproves of the stage
as much as you do. However, I think I have
managed to put t\>o and two together, and to forma
pretty shrewd guess as to Donati's reason for
his sudden change of profession. It seems he hasa
sister ; did you know her ?'

She was being educated in a convent when I
was in Italy, but I saw her once or twice. Poor
iirl I she niado some very foolish marriage, I
believe, not long after we came to England. I
never heard the rights of the story, but I know
she eloped with someone.'

Oh, that was it ! "Well, she seems to have
paid dearly for her folly, poor thing ! for her husband
is a brute, a more svdlen, ill-tempered fellow
I never saw. He is the Impresario of this travelling
company which Donati has joined; the sister,
Madame Merlino, is the prima donna. Let me
see, what did he call her? Nita, I think.'

That was her name. I remember her asa
demure little girl, shocked at Francesca's
freedom.'

Yell, she seems to be one of those pretty,
helpless, unhappy wives who stand in such grave
need of a protector. Now when I was at Naples
I heard nothing at all about this sister, but on
the Sunday, Donati was introduced to me by my
brother as one of the most promising young advocates
at the Neapolitan bar, and his praises were
sung to me in a way which I own rather prejudiced

mc against him. I couldn't lily) liking the
fellow Avhcn I saw him, however ; and you can
imagine my surprise when, on the Tuesday morning,
I found that my brother had quarrelled with
him, and that their friendship was at an end.
He had decided on some course of action which
the Captain disapproved, and said you would also
disapprove. Ilov/ever, the matter was a private
affair of Donati's, and he bound me over to
silence, telling me, however, that I should soon
see all for myself, and should then agree with
him. I got quite on a wrong tack, and thought
it was some political difference, but surely this is
the true explanation. I appeal to you now, bliss
Claremont, as a reader of romances:  given a pretty
actress, with a brute of a husband, and doubtless
some not too reputable admirers, is it not conceivable
that circumstances might arise which
slioidd induce her father or her brother to sacrifice
everything in order to save her ?'

Quite,' said Clare ; ' and Carlo Donati would
be the very man to throw himself into the breach
in that way ; there was something chivalrous
about him, something one doesn't often meet with

nowadays. Do you remember frs. Growing's

lines ? 

The world's male chivalry has perished out,
But women are knights-errant to the last."

I always thought she wouldn't have written that
if she had known Carlo.'

I think there is no doubt that he is playing
the part of Knight-errant now,' said Mr. Britton,
musingly ; ' and that he has a hard time of it.
I doubt if he will succeed, though. The sister
seemed to me a very shallow, heartless little
woman. lie is a noble fellow, much too good
to be wasted on such a life.'

He gave Clare a detailed account of what lead
passed that afternoon.

I am sorry he has gone on the stage,* she
said. ' I hoped he would have done great things.
It seems to me that a man like that might lune
wonderful influence in public life.'

'And yet in some ways he is admirably tilled
for his present work,' said Mr. Britton. ' Isis
voice is very fine, and his acting really firstrato ;
I went to hear him to-night, and was delighted
with him. AVould you caro to see him tomorrow

? T want you to look lily up, for I
think, poor follow, ho is leading the life of a
(log ; and he seemed so pleased at the thought of
meeting you again. I have promised that the
carriage shall take the Aicar into Ashborough
in the afternoon ; he preaches at St. Cyprian's fn
the evening. "Would you like to go in, too ? You
might, perhaps, go for a drive with young Donation

would be the best chance of seeing him
alone,* said Clare. * Thank you, I think I will
go, and on Sunday I suppose he is sure to be
disengaged.'

Accordingly the next day Clare, having set
down the Vicar at St. Cyprian's parsonage, drove
to the Royal Hotel, and sent in her card with a
little pencilled message asking Carlo to come
for a drive. As she waited there she felt a little
anxious, and even shy, for after all it was many
years since she had seen Carlo. Avoid time have
raised a barrier between them ? "Would Signer
Donati, the public singer, be less approachable
than the frank, light-hearted, Italian boy, who
at one time had almost worshipped her? The
first glimpse of him, however, dispelled all her

fears : lie came quickly forward with the same
eager boyish manner A\hit'h she recollected so
well, and took both her hands in his.

Trow good, how kind of you to come ! ' he
exclaimed. ' This is the greatest pleasure I have
lead for a long time. Gigi,' he turned to pick up
a small boy, ' this is Miss Claremont. Should you
mind, Clare, if I brought him with me ? Sunday
has come to be considered his special property.'

Clare was delighted to welcome the little
fellow, and made many inquiries about his
narrow escape of the previous day.

"What a great pleasure it must be to you
now to feel that j'ou saved him ! ' she said. ' I
have often wondered how a rescuer would feel
afterwards.'

It's a satisfaction to feel that I have not
failed in one thing undertaken,' said Carlo, rather
sadly.

At first sight Clare had thought him hardly
altered, but on looking more closely at him she
saw that his face, when in repose, bore signs of
friction ; and, though still very young-looking,
told plainly of grief and sorrow undergone.

That is a sad way of putting it,' she said. * I
thought, too, that you had had such very great
success,  Mr. Britton led me to believe so.'

You see,' he replied, ' every artist leads a
double life ; just at that moment I was thinking
more of my own personal side of the question,
but really sometimes I think I'm making a
failure of both.'

But you have surely had a very rapid
success ? '

Don't think I am ungrateful fur my reception,'
he said. ' I know I have made what the
world calls a success, but I'm not yet satisfied
with myself ; and each time I go on the stage
I feel that I may fail utterly. An artist's life
is a life of eternal anxiety. But then to counterbalance
that we have the moments of inspiration,
and they are worth all.'

riarc M'as surprised at his sudden fervour.

You really like your new profession, then ? '
she said. * I remember you were always fond of
music.'

'I don't know how I should get on without
it,' he said. ' It i.s not only the music that is

such a great clcHglit, it is the getting out of one's
own Avorld, the living in the characters of others,
the sense of howling the attention of one's
audience and playing upon their emotions, and
the pleasure of giving pleasure. Besides, there
is a kind of satisfaction in being what you were
meant to be.'

Had you long intended to take up this way
of life?'

Xo ; but Piale had fully educated me for it.
I was an advocate, you know, though I had never
practised.'

And I suppose it was jour wish to be near
your sister which prompted you to make the
change ? ' she said.

lie was surprised, and yet relieved, that she
had guessed as much.

*It was my last promise to our mother,' he
said. But he was quite silent as to the sacrifice it
had been to lira to take up the profession ; and
Clare, who had not the faintest suspicion of his
love for Francesca, could not, of course, realise
what he had been through. She wondered
whether his plan had been a wise one, and recalled

Mr. Britton's description of Madame
Mcrlino, and his conviction that in this case
chivalry would not avail.

I know you don't approve of the stage,' he
said. * Had I thought you would have seen
things as I saw them T should have written to
you when we first came to England, for I was
horribly lonely then.'

I wish you had,' she said, with warm sympathy.
' Indeed, I should not have argued
with 3'ou through the post ! Nor will I argue
now. It is quite impossible for me really to
judge : I know too little about the stage.'

'Yet you do disapprove in your secret
heart,' he said, rather wistfully. He could not
help longing for Clare's benediction on his efforts.

Perhaps it seems to me a little like doing
evil that good may come,' she said, hesitatingly.
But that may be only my British prejudice.'

Then, seeing a sad look in his eyes, she added,
quickly, 

But, as I said before. Carlo, it is impossible
for me to judge. "What did Captain Britton
say to it ? '

He shared iu the British prejudice'

A look of such dcciJ pain flashed across his
face that her heart smote lier ; she had spoken
without very much thought, forgetting that
Carlo would probably feci sore-hearted still at
the recollection of the quarrel with the Captain
which Mr. Britton had mentioned. Of the true
state of the case he had nothing to tell hei, and
the best of friends cannot avoid now and then
wounding each other in the dark.

As a matter of fact, you know,' she said, in
her sweet, bright way, * I am a very ignorant
woman as to these matters. I have never been
inside a theatre, I have never come across people
connected with the stage, and I have no doubt
that the evils connected with theatrical life are
painted more darkly than they need be. Indeed,
I should be very glad if you could convert me.'

Then this shall be the first step in your
conversion,' he said, smiling. ' Look at these
two ladies whom we are just going to pass on
the left.'

Clare looked, Gigi kissed his hand, and the
ladies boed and smiled as Carlo raised his hat.

The (all one has u beautiful face ! ' exclaimed
Clare. ' So dignified and sweet'

That is Mile. Borelli, our contralto ; she is
one of the noblest women I know. The other
is Mile. Duroc, her great friend.'

A nice face, but not so striking as the other,'
was Clare's consent. ' Well, Carlo, I am glad
to have seen them. Perhaps you will some day
convert me altogether and make me approve of
theatres.'

The talk turned on other matters, and before
they parted Clare made Carlo promise to come
over to Merlebank the next afternoon, and to
bring Gigi with him.

Curiously enough, however, the question of
theatrical life was to be handled once more that
day, and not with Clare's moderation.

St. Cyprian's was some way from the lioA'al
Hotel ; but Carlo, having chanced upon a a cry
drcaiy service in the morning at a neighbouring
church, was determined to go farther afield, and
hearing from Sardoni that it was considered one
of the finest churches in England, resolved to
seek it out.

It's at least a mile,' said Sardoui ; ' however,
the choir is worth hearing, and if you're
going I don't mind going with you.'

So the two set off together, arriving somewhat
late, and having to content themselves with
places at the very back of the church. Carlo
felt strangely tired, but he Alas very ha2)i)y in
having met Clare and Mr. Britton once more,
and he was glad Sardoui had volunteered to come
with him. The beautiful building, and the music,
and the service, which was always associated in
his mind with Naples and Francesca, would, even
in their mere external aspect, hac been a refreshment
; and he was gaining the rest he much
needed when the sermon began, and startled him
back into his Working-day existence. For the
preacher, sitting in his country vicarage, and
well conversant with all the pleasures of the
country, which seemed to him the only pleasures
worth enumerating, had written a fierce diatribe
against the pleasures of the town, and notably
against theatre-going. Perhaps it had not occurred
to him that members of the obnoxious
theatrical profession might be numbered in his

flock ; apparently he considered tlicm all to be
reprobates, for he spoke of them in no measured
terms, and denounced their profession as an
unhallowed calling. Carlo was the more pained
by the attack, because the preacher was evidently
a man of great earnestness, a good, upright,
honest man, not a mere denouncer. It was hard,
too, to have his brief respite from work disturbed
and spoiled by so untimely an assault. lie tried
not to listen, but the mere desire not to hear
made it impossible for him to lose himself in
other thoughts, and whether he would or no the
words fell upon his ear.

My brethren,' continued the preacher, * I
look at the hoardings in your town, and see
liOM-, caen in this solemn time of Lent, the
world seeks to ensnare you. I see that, not
content with the usual number of theatres,
another must be opened for the performance
of operas ; and I fear that you may be tempted
perhaps to snatch at a passing pleasure. Let
me urge you to withstand the temptation ; let
mc implore you, as you value the health of
your own soils, to slum this false and ensnaring

pleasure, the influence of which must be harmful

may be deadly. j\Iost truly, most wisely do

we sing the words 

" Christian, dost thou see them
On the holy ground ;
IIow the troops of Midian
Prowl and prowl around P "

Carlo was for the moment so much tickled
by the implied comparison between the wandering
troupe of Merlin and the prowling
troops of Midian, that he had some difficulty
in keeping his countenance. lie did not dare
to look at Sardoni ; but, taking up a book,
read the rest of the hymn, reflecting sadly that
even the much-abused members of the 'unhallowed
calling' did sometimes try their best
to overcome 'By the merit of the holy Cross.*
The attack grieved him ; it seemed like the
embodiment of the cause which had separated
him from Francesca. He had learnt, moreover,
to love his profession ; he believed in it withall
his heart ; he knew that it need no more bo
an unhallowed calling than the calling of the
poet, or the painter, or the sculptor, or the
novelist. This preacher clearly failed to ,.

II. p

stand the highest meaning of art  he had no
sense of the artistic side of life ; neither had he
any sense of humour, or he would instantly
have perceived the ludicrous turn which might
he given to his application of the * troops of
Midian.'

This particular Midianito began to wonder
whether, if he from the stage had begged people
to shun the church and to refrain from giving
at the offertory, the preacher would not have
denounced him as a man who wilfully robbed
another of his daily bread. He went on to
picture to himself the immediate consequences
of any marked falling-off in the attendance at
the theatre : he thought of the heavy loss to
Merlino, the severe trial to his temper, the
consequent misery and suffering of all about
him, the possible effect on Anita. Then he went
on to generalities, and tried to imagine the
effect upon art if the best and purest followed
the preacher's advice, and went no more to the
theatre. He saw how the good, and the elevating,
and the lofty in the drama would perforce
fail for lack of support ; and how the

only thing that would pay would be that which
pandered to the lowest and vilest tastes. lie felt
that the members of his profession, in such a
state of things, would be placed in a grave
dilemma ; unfit for any other calling, they would
be forced either to let their talents rust unused,
and to sink into poverty and distress, or to
debase themselves by taking work which they
knew to be unworthy of them.

He would have liked to put such a case to
the preacher, and he felt curious to see what
sort of man he was ; but they were quite at
the back of the church, and an intervening pillar
hid the pulpit from view.

Feeling, somehow, that the sermon had shut
him out from the fellowship which he expected
to find in a church, and had made him an alien
even in the body to which he rightfully belonged,
he made his way out again into the
dark, dreary street, up which the March wind
blew gustily. A sense of intolerable fatigue
came over him.

What a pace you are walking at. Jack ! '
he exclaimed. 'One might think a'ou were

blessed vit]l the seven-leagued boots, and were
keeping up with Sirocco ! '

Sardoni modified his pace ; and Carlo, glancing
at him, saw an expression about his mouth which
boded no good.

I'm sorry we came in for that sermon,' he
said.

Well, at any rate, it will serve to show
you what British prejudice is ! ' said Sardoni,
shaking more fiercely than the occasion seemed
to warrant. ' I don't know what effect it will
have as to theatre-going, but I know that I
shan't darken the doors of a church again in a
hurry ! '

Carlo was silent, knowing that his companion
was far too angry to be reasoned with ; and not
another word passed between them on tlicir way
back to the hotel.

Chapter IX.

AN ENGLISH Home:.

Nor hath thy knowledge of adversity

lobed thee of any faith in happiness,
But rather cleared thine inner eyes to see
IIow many simple "ways there are to bless.'

Lowell.

TiiK next day, according to this promise, Carlo
went over to Merlcbank.

IIow good of you to come,' said Clare,
hastening forward to greet him as lie was shown
into the drawing-room ; * I was afraid this
gloomy afternoon might frighten you away. I
must introduce you to Francesca's cousins whom
you have so often heard of.'

Carlo looked eagerly enough to see if he
could trace any likeness to Francesca in the
four girls who came up in frank and friendly
fashion to shake hands with him. Kate, the
eldest, was about her age, and lie instantly
perceived that she had the same English-grey
eyes  dark grey, with no blue in their depths.

Though, however, she was a nice-looking girl,
she made no pretensions to beauty ; but every
now and then a tone in her voice would thrill
him by its likeness to Francesca's, and he felt
much attracted by her, though he perceived at
once that she was passing judgment on him,
and that her manner was more critical and less
friendly than that of the younger girls.

Lucy, the second sister, was fairer and
prettier, and seemed to be the sweet-tempered
one of the famish', but she interested him less
than Kate, whose slightly aggressive manner
piqued him into curiosity. Molly was a rather
tom boyish young person of fourteen, with a
frank hail-fellow-well-met manner ; and Flo,
the baby of the family, was just eleven, a lira
little girl, with short, fair hair, and very short
petticoats, who enjoyed life in a kittenish sort
of way, and, while much petted by everyone in
the house, had somehow just escaped spoiling.

Clare sat, looking wonderfully natural, in the
corner of the big Chesterfield sofa, and nuule
him sit beside her, where they could talk comfortably
together, a little removed from the group

of girls who, on the other side of the hearth,
clustered round Gigi and made much of him.
The di-awing-room was such a room as Carlo had
never before seen, and after the weary round of
dingy lodgings and second-rate hotels to which
he had of late been accustomed he could fully
appreciate it. It reminded him just a little of
the sotto at Casa Bella in its air of comfort and
homeliness, but Whereas the Casa Bella room
had a semi-Italian air, from its Cantigalli 2('Qi<cs
and pottery, and its striped silk corrected, this
room was thoroughly and typically English. A
second room, visible by day, was curtained off in
the evening, when snugncss reigned supreme ; a
fire of coals, crowned by a huge log, burned in
the low, wide grate, and sent a ruddy glow over
the brass fender and dainty brass fire-irons; while
a warm-toned Persian carpet and wallflower-red
curtains harmonised well with the salmon-tinted
walls, upon which were gathered a wealth of
pictures that at once attracted Carlo's eye, though
the names on the massive gilt frames, Brett,
Anselm, Vicar Cole, and Millais, conveyed to
him, as a foreigner, wo special meaning.

Clare was a little afraid of alluding to Casa
Bella after her rather careless speech of the
preceding day, but she spoke of the Bitters,
and of other mutual friends, and asked endless
questions about Naples and Pozzuoli which Carlo
was enchanted to answer. For many months he
had been utterly cut off from all his old ties, and
from the people who could sympathise with them ;
it was delightful to him to go over the familiar
ground once more with some one who knew it
and loved it almost as well as he did. To be
with Clare again made him feel strangely young
and light-hearted. lie forgot Anita and Comerio ;
he forgot all the petty jealousies and disputes of
the Company ; he even forgot his own private
troubles, found genuine relief in speaking Francesca's
name, and could almost have fancied that
he was once more a boy, resolving to work and
wait till he could present his name to Captain
liritton with the prefix of Avrocato.

You can stay a nice long time, I hodie h ' said
Clare. ' Mr. Britton will be coming in soon, I
think, and he specially wished to see you. He so
much enjoyed your surging on Saturday.'

This is my off day,' explained Carlo, ' so I
am not bound to be back by any special time.
It is Fra Diarolo to-night, and I have no part
in that.'

Is that your only sluice of a holiday ? Do
you mean that you sing all the other nights of
the week?'

That just depends on whether the engagements
dovetail into each other. Very often they
do. When the town is important we generally
stay a week, and tlicn the round seldom varies.
Arrive on Sunday, Fast on Monday, Fra Diavolo
Tuesday, Somnanihiila "Wednesday, Lucia Thursday,
Barrier Friday, Rigoletto Saturday, on to
the next place on Sunday.'

*Is the travelling ahvaj's done on Sunday?'
'Not always, but very frequently. You see
it is the only day you close your theatres. Now
with us the theatres are shut on Friday, but we
play our best operas in our best style on the
Foita. There is something to be said for both
sides of the question. Last week we had engagements
of two and three nights only at small
places, and travelled here in detachments, the

bulk of the company by special train ou Friday
evcuiug, the rest of us on Saturday afternoon.
So at Marlborough the days are slightly varied,
and on Thursday we move on to Queensberry for
two nights.'

It must be a very hard life,' said Clare.

It is no light work, as some people seem to
fancy, specially when the winter is so severe.'

Yes, you must have felt the cold dreadfully.'

I have at any rate learnt to appreciate
warmth. The only drawback is that in England
it seems impossible to be warm on both sides at
once. You may scorch your shins at the fire,
and yet the back of your leg vdW still be frozen !
But I see you understand here how to build up
a glorious fire. 'We don't come across such fireplaces
as that.'

"While he talked he watched with the interest
of a foreigner all that was going on, wondered
for what reason the footing appeared with a
trivet and a bright copper kettk', and speeuhitcd
as to the little folding table which was being setup
on the other side t)f the fireplace. A daintily-worked
cloth was spread over it, then came the

explanation in the form of a beautifully inlaid
ebony and silver tray, with the most fascinating
of silver tea-services, and delicate blue and white
china cups.

'This is just like Salem,' announced Gigi.
'We've never had real proper tea since Salem.'

Carlo, seeing that Kate had some unknown
designs on the copper kettle, hastened to offer
his services.

Tea-making is a process I have never seen,'
he said, wondering what on earth he was to do
with the kettle now that he had valiantly seized
upon it.

Thank you, a little in the teapot, please,'
said Kate. 'That will do.'

He restored it to the trivet, and noticed that
Kate's hands were exactly like Francesca's. lie
could not take his eyes ois them as she measured
out tea from a pretty little silver caddy with a
silver cockleshell. They were not luxuriously
brought up girls, in spite of their father's wealth.
They were accustomed to helping themselves, and
did not care to have servants always at their beck
and call. Indeed, Kate was of so independent

a nature that she would willingly Lave dispensed
with Carlo's assistance, and observing that the
kettle did not boil, she set it further back on
the trivet, and with something a little defiant
in her expression, prepared to take it off at the
critical minute.

AVTiat was the first edition for' asked
Carlo.

Oh, that was to warm the teapot, a very
important part of the matter,' she explained,

Pray let me have my share in this mysterious
process,' said Carlo, forestalling her as she was
about to carry off the kettle in triumph. ' It
has to mo, you know, all the interest of a new
experiment in chemistry.'

'You don't mean to say Francesca hasn't
introduced afternoon tea yet at Casa Bella ? '

There was a general exclamation.

'You see in Italy we naturally enough go
in more for cooling drinks. She was very clever
at making lemonade.'

He felt himself colouring at the recollection
of that hot summer day in the rose-room, and
was glad to turn his back on the five pair of

eyes, nncT to put the kettle again on the trivet.
A further diversion was made by the entrance
of the servant with cakes and thin bread-and-butter
and a great dish of cruiuiJets, which was
set down in the fender to keep hot. There was
something charmingly easy and informal in the
whole thing, Carlo thought ; he wondered what
it was that gave the English their special power
of making homes, and once more the tone of
Kate's voice took him back with a pang that
was half of pleasure, half of pain, to the thought
of Francesca, For a minute he called up the
picture of what might have been. lie saw the
\''illa Bruno with the alterations which she would
have made in it ; he possessed in imagination the
wife and the home which he had renounced ; and
the dream was so sweet that it was almost worth
the revulsion of feeling which quickly followed.

There must have been a brain wave between
him and Kate, for at that moment she startled
him with the question, ' I suppose they have new-neighbours
now at Casa Bella ? "Who took your
house when you left ? '

It was taken by Count Carossa,' he replied.

Mr. Britton met him at Naples on Whit Sunday,
lie has a yacht not unlike the Pilgrim, and was
anchored close by.'

I remember now, father mentioned him.
AVhat sort of man is he? Will Uncle Britton
like him?'

I believe he was much taken with him,'
replied Carlo, hearing his own calm replies with
a sort of astonishment.

'Uncle is dreadfully fond of people with
titles,' said Kate. ' It is his one weakness. Is
Count Carossa really nice, do you think?'

*I have only met him once,' replied Carlo.
He is quite young and very rich, rather an
original sort of man, has travelled a great deal,
and is a good raconteur'

lie ran off the list of his rival's merits unfalteringly,
but was secretly relieved by an
interruption.

'Don't you hear wheels?' exclaimed Lucy,
opening the drawing-room door that she might
listen better.

Yes, it is father ! ' cried little Flo, ' for Bevis
is waking up. See,' she said, drawing Carlo's

attention to a very old deer-hound which lay
stretched out comfortably on the hearth-rug.
Bevis always does that when he hears the
carriage, but when it is only people coming to
call he sleeps right on.'

In the hall there was a little bustle of arrival
and welcome. The return of the father and son
from business made one of the pleasantness of
the daily events in that quiet country household.
They brought with them a sort of atmosphere
of the world which was refreshing. Generally
there were commissions to be delivered, or library
books to be eagerly seized upon, and invariably
there was some sort of news to be discussed.
Carlo realised something of this as Mr. Brit ton
came into the room with Lucy, his favourite
daughter, clinging to his arm, and the dog-oscar,
son to the elderly Bevis, at his heels.

The ship-builder never showed to greater
advantage than in his own house. Looking now
at his clear grey eyes, his refined face, his thick
white hair and snowy, well-kept beard, he seemed
to Carlo the perfection of an English gentleman.
His manner was delightful, a little more courteous

than the manner of the Englishmen Carlo
had hitherto come across, hut free from all suspicion
of formality, a manner that was genuinely
friendly without being in the least over-familiar,
lie gave Carlo a hearty welcome, and turned to
introduce him to his son, who seemed to be
much what Mr. Britton must have been forty
years ago.

Harry Britton had not yet acquired, however,
his father's easy, genial way of talking ; he seemed
not quite at his ease with the Italian ; and, after
the greetings were over, moved away' with a perceptible
air of relief, which tickled Carlo not a
little, and began to open the shiny black bag
which he held in his left hand. From this he
proceeded to dole forth various purchases which
the girls had asked him to make, ending with the
evening paper, which he as usual brought dutifully'
to Clare, with a little time-honoured joke
which had for them all a halo of happy associations.


Carlo watched the little bit of bj'-play, and
understood it all perfectly. It brought back to
his mind the old days when Clare was in Italy,

nd had been to him just such a true, staunch,
cheery friend as she was now to Harry Britton.
To his tired brain there was something indescribably
refreshing in that glimpse of home-life.
It was a scene which he never forgot, and which
often returned to him with a sense of comfort
in his wandering, homeless life. For there are
people so genuine, so English, so whole-hearted,
that they can make even afternoon callers feel,
for the time being, one of themselves  can send
them forth again With a pleasant, living picture
in their hearts, and a consciousness that there is
true friendliness and good-fellowship in a world
which had seemed to them for the most part a
place of weary sociality and routine.

Ue felt a great wish to do something for these
people, and knowing that etiquette forbade them
to ask him to sing, and that Clare was anxious to
hear him, he took advantage of some reference
which Mr. Britton made to his singing in Fault,
to offer to sing them 'Dio Ponscntc*

The unmistakable look of real delight which
greeted the suggestion, and the eager way in
which Molly and Flo ran to open the piano,

vol II. '-

pleased him more than the loudest public applause
could have done. lie sang very welland
entranced his hearers, rousing even Starry
out of his shy reserve.

Do you ever sing English songs?' he asked,
when the chorus of thanks had ceased, volunteering
his first uncalled-for remark to the Italian.

Not very often,' replied Carlo, wondering
whether he could get through * Love for a Life,'
and, after a moment's debate, deciding to risk it
for the sake of pleasing Francesca's cousin.
There is one song by my old Maestro with
English words. Perhaps you know it?'

He struck a few chords, then broke into the
introduction to the song which transported him
once more to that first happy day of his betrothal.
To sing it was hard, and yet his very emotion
gave him a power which he would not otherwise
have possessed,  it made him able to bring tears
into the eyes of more than one of his listeners 
it set kind-hearted Mr. Brit ton weaving jilans
for a reconciliation, and imagining a happy ending
to Francesca's love-story.

I sang that for your's said Carlo, with a

little bow of acknowledgment for Harry's Alarm
thanks. *Xow, if you arc not quite tired of
me, I should very much like to sing one song
for Miss Claremont. You must choose it, Clare,'
ho said, turning to her, and looking-with a smile
into her sympathetic eyes.

'May I really choose?' she said. 'Then I
should like that old favourite of mine, " The
Pilgrim of Love." '

That will also be an indirect compliment to
the yacht,' said Carlo, laughing. ' Or was that
called after the Pilgrim's Progress ? But let
me see, can I get through the words ? How do
you pronounce that bit I always used to come to
grief over ? '

'nay, nay, courteous father?' suggested
Clare, recalling merry disputes in the Casa Bella
drawing-room.

That was it ! " Courteous " or " courteous " 
how do you say it ?'

They laughed over the old discussions, and
discussed them over again, and after some little
delay Carlo sang the song, and finally left them
to be haunted for many a day to come by the

refrain, * No rest but the grave for the pilgrim
of hjvc.'

He seems a nice sort of fellow ! ' was Harry's
comment, when, the guests having departed, his
natural manner returned to him. ' I say, it
didn't matter, did it, mj' asking him if he sang
English songs ? I thought none of those operatic
fellows did.'

Oh, dear, no,' said Clare. * Nothing pleases
Carlo so much as to give pleasure.'

"Well, it was awfully jolly of him to sing
such a lot. He doesn't seem a bit stuck up.
But, I say, why on earth can't they be called
like ordinary Christians ? Carlo and Gigi ! Did
you ever hear of a more horsey and doggy
couple ! '

That's just your narrow-mindedness,* said
Clare, laughing. * Carlo is as good a name as
Charles, and Gigi sounds no more foolish to an
Italian than Johnny or Tonuuy to us.'

Well, Clare, for my part I don't understand
your Signer Donati. If he is the sort of man he
seems to be, why does he live such a useless life ?'
said Kate, with the severity of three-and-twenty.

lie may have many reasons which we don't
understand,' said Shire. ' IIo\\ever, I candidly
confess that I wish he woukl leave the stage.
He looks to me terribly delicate.'

lie is far too good for that Company,' said
Mr. Britton. * I shouldn't be at all surprised
if he did leave the stage before long. I hope
he may  I hope he may! There's something
about him which quite fascinates one, though I
do wish he could have been an Englishman.'

The laughter evoked by this truly British
remark Alas only checked by the warning clock,
which made Clare and the j'oungcr girls beat a
hasty retreat to the school-room, and sent Kate
to read to her invalid grandmother, and to
moralise in her ora mind over Carlo's mistake
in choosing so unworthy a profession.

CHAPTER X.

A LAST S T K V G G L E ,

sweet, they tell me that the world is hard and harsh of

mind,
15ut can it be so hard, so harsh, as those lliat should he

kind ?
That matters not; let come what will; at last the end is

sure,
And every heart that loves with truth is equal to endure.'

Tennyson.

Now, Miss Clarciiiont, sujiposc just for once
you were to come to the tlicatrcP' remarked
Mr. Britton at breakfast the next morning. ' I
sec they arc giving // Barhicre on Wednesday
night, and I lia\c a sort of hankering to vicar
it once more. "Will you come ? Shall I take a
box?'

But Clare was too staunch to her Puritan
traditions, though she owned that she would
much have liked to hear Carlo. As yet, however,
he had not converted her ; she still regarded the

stage as at best a necessary evil, and felt boimd
to refuse Mr. Britton's offer.

Then ask Signer Donati over to lunch tomorrow
; it will be your last chance of seeing
him ; and I am afraid it is no good asking him
to dinner, because, apparently, he can't sing after
eating, and has to dine at some unconscionably
early hour.'

I shall bo going in to Ashborough at twelve
o'clock in the pony-carriage, Clare,' remarked
Kate. ' I can leave a note for you, if you like ;
or will you come in with me ?'

Clare, who was fond of driving, said she
should like to come, so when lessons were ended
she joined her ex-pupil, and, well Avrappcd up,
was able to enjoy even the stretch of bleak,
dusty road that lay between Merlebank and
Ashborough.

"We need not leave the note, for there is
Signer Donati!' exclaimed Kate, as they drove
down the High Street. ' I do hate to sec a man
in fur like that. He seems to coddle himself
dreadfully. Harry says he took quite an age
wrapping up his throat last night.'

"Wc-will just stop a minute or two, if you
don't mind,' said Clare. ' I will speak to him,
and sec if lie can come.'

Carlo did not at first notice them. He was
walking rather slowly down the street, with Gigi,
as usual, clinging to his hand. He looked ill and
depressed, but when Gigi eagerly drew his attention
to the pony-carriage and its occupants, his
face lighted up, and he seemed for the time to
return to his old self.

'We-were just coming to ask you to lunch
with us tomorrow,' said Clare. * "Will j'ou come,
you and Gigi ? I suppose you couldn't dine with
us, could you ? '

I'm afraid not, thank you, for I'm singing
both to-night and tomorrow ; but I shall be very
glad to come over to lunch.'

He had a short, hard cough, which made
Clare look at him anxiously.

'You look very poorly to-day. Carlo,' she
said.

'I awoke to the sad consciousness that the
wind had gone back to the east,' he said, laughing.


'And that cough ? It seems very bad.'

Oh, it is only chronic ! ' he said, with a sniilo,
We have all suffered nitre or less from the long
Winter. It must be nearly over now; don't yoii
think?'

April ;ind May are often nearly as cold,' said
Kate, perversely.

'Are they?' he said, with an expressive gesture.
' [y friend Sardoni has just given me a
song called " Welcome, cold North-easter," but
the very words make one's teeth chatter ! '

One o'clock tomorrow, then,' said Clare as
They drove on again.

He took off his hat and bowed in foreign
fashion, and was sedulously imitated by Gigi.

Dreadfully Italian ! ' said Kate, whipping up
the ponies with a touch of irritation in her
manner. ' I can't bear a man to be a sort of
barometer  pretending to know which way the
wind is before he had been out : such nonsense
! '

I have known many people with susceptible
chests who were able to do that,' said Clare.

'But no Englishman looks so miserable just

because it happens to be a cold day,' said Kate.
It seems so effeminate to mind a little fresh air.'
My dear, if you had to work hard through a
very hot summer in Ital', do sou not think you
might look flushed and over-tired?'

'Ah, but to feel heat is quite a different
thing!' protested Kate. 'There's nothing unmanly
in that ; why', don't you remember last
August how limp and good-for-nothing Harry
was in that very hot week ? '

Yes, because he was unused to it. You arc
illogical, Kate ; it is not a bit more effeminate, as
you say, to feel the physical effects of cold than
of heat ; the only difference is that you understand
one feeling and don't understand the other.'

'That may be,' said Kate, 'but I don't like
Signer Donati ; and as to saying that he Avorks
hard, Ashy, what man who is hard-worked would
be sauntering down the High Street like that, with
a child ? I don't call his sort of profession
work at all I '

In the meant im.' Carlo slowly made his way
back to the hotel.

He was so ih-vd ami overdone that it was all

lie could do to bear Gigi's chatter. He wondered
how he should get through with his * Count
Rudolph,' rcmenihered distastefully that he
shoidd have to make love to Mile. Do Caisne,
ho never would sink her own personality
in that of ' Ijisa,' and would have given all he
possessed if ans-onc had come to him with the
news that for some good reason there could be
no opera that night. Everything in the future
which he had to undertake looked to him like a
huge mountain which he must perforce climb ;
and, worst of all, he knew that the instant he
faltered Comerio would come forward and offer to
take his place. If it had not been for that
thought he could have borne up better, but the
consciousness that Gomez was carefully keeping
watch on his health, like a Culture hovering over
u dying man, and longing to swoop down on him,
this was almost mouldering. He Alas troubled,
too, about Sardoni, who, for the last day or t'i\o,
lead been unlike himself, moody and melancholy
in the daytime, and wild and reckless towards
night. lie seemed to shun Carlo as much as
possible, and when they were thrown together

was so bitter and sarcastic that his friend could
not imagine what had come over him ; it was so
unreasonable, so altogether improbable, that the
sonnon of Sunday night should still be rankling
in his mind, that such a notion never occurred to
Curio. He was altogether perplexed and felt
very anxious about him, nor could he help perceiving
with a pang that in the time of his own
greatest need Sardoni hud deserted him, wholly
failing to notice his desperate struggle to keep
up. How ho got through his work he scarcely
knew ; luckily for him, his throat was not much
affected, though he was feeling far too Aveak and
ill to be in good voice. At any rate, he did not
break down, and he began to see that at present
he must content himself with this poor comfort,
and put up with cold receptions and the wretched
consciousness of artistic failure. lie went home
wondering what poor old Piale would have said
could he have heard him, and congratulating
himself that the dear old Maestro was not likely
even to sec the unfavourable critiques on his
singing which must inevitably follow upon so
wretched a performance.

>?.'

On the Wednesday morning, after a very
restless night, he woke much worse than on the
previous day, and feeling positively sick at the
thought that he must either get through the
trying part of ' Figaro ' that night or confess his
illness, get a medical certificate to prove his inability
to appear, and thus give all into alio hands
of Gomez and Comerio. For he knew too well
that no doctor in his senses would permit him to
sing in his present state, that he would infallibly
be ordered to rest ; and for this reason, while
taking every possible precaution throughout the
winter, he had avoided doctors as he would have
avoided the plague. It was still just possible
that he might struggle on till the warm weather
came, then, in June, !Merlino might, and probably
would, renew the contract with him, and ho
should go to America "VA-with the troupe and once
more baffle Comerio. If he could only hold out !

He lay in bed as long as he dared, then,
knowing that Gomez would publicly comment on
the fact if he failed to make his appearance, and
that Merlino invariably wanted him if he happened
to bo late in the niovninji', dressed hastily,

noticed with relief that lie did not look nearly so
ghastly as he felt, and went down to the crowded
coffee-room. The hotel was full of people who
had come down to Ashborough for the races; they
were a noisy, disreputable crew ; and as Carlo
entered the room where the' were all breakfasting
before going to the race-course, it seemed
to him like coming into a pandemonium. His
head Alas aching miserably, but his ears seemed
preternaturally alive to the slightest sound, and
he could distinctly hear several comments on
one of those operatic fellows ' as he steered his
way through the throng to the fireplace, nodding
to Merlino and Tanninii as he passed them.

'Good-day, Donati ; how are you?' said a
voice at his elbow.

He looked round and saw the Spaniard's
malicious face.

Good-morning,' he replied.

How are you ? ' repeated Gomez.

I'm cold,' said Carlo, drawing nearer to the
fire, and determined that Gomez should gain nothing
from his catechism. 'They don't know how
to build up fires in this place.'

As he spoke he felt the Spaniard's searching
glance, and knew that Gomez was far too shrewd
not to find out the true state of the case. For
although his rich, ruddy-brown colouring deceived
many people, yet keen observers might
easily note that darby day his cheeks grew more
hollow, and that there M'cre lines of pain about
his mouth and eyes. There was to him a sort of
horrible humiliation about it, for he had never
been ill in his life, had thought it impossible
that his perfect health should be broken, had
almost laughed when Captain Britton had suggested
the idea to him. It was useless, however,
to blink the fact any longer ; and when the place
was quiet once more  the noisy guests gone off
to the races, and Merlino and Marionii to the
theatre  Carlo gave way, shivering from head to
foot almost like one in a fit of ague.

Cold morning, sir,' said one of the overworked
waiters, putting fresh coals on the fire.
'Have you breakfasted, sir?'

I won't take anything, thank you,' said
Carlo, feeling not the slightest inclination for
food.

Some nice hot rashers, sir, or an egg ? '
fwggcstvd the waiter. But Carlo was not to be
tempted.

We shall have to put you on my " Don't ir
thii/tli/," ' said Gigi, taking off his Lib embroidered
with this moral precept and trotting up to Carlo
with it.

It was impossible not to laugh. The waiter
smiled politely' and withdrew, but returned before
long with a cup of coffee.

Trj' that, sir,' he said kindly ; * it's just fresh
made and will do you good. You have a heavy
cold coming on, sir.'

Carlo was touched by the man's courtesy, he
did not deny the advent of the heavy cold.

Gigi,' he said, * I'm afraid we must give up
going to Merlebank to lunch. You shall take a
note oyer there, if I can find someone to send
with you.'

'Are you ill, zio caro ?' asked the child,
frightened by the look of pain which he for the
first time noticed in the face so familiar to
him.

The waiter says it's a heavy cold coming on.

and anyhow I must save up for to-night. I'm
sorry to disappoint you.*

I wish wc couhl go,' said Gigi, Wistfully,
'but I more wish you wasn't ill;' and he raised
his quaint, pitiful, little face to Carlo's with one
of those childish caresses Avliich made Carlo feel
that everything he had been through was Avorth
while.

He sat down to write to Clare, and Gigi ran

back to his beloved soldiers, monotonously chanting,

in his rather pretty little voice, 

" Pray, Mr, Frog, will you give us a song.
But let it be something that's not very long."
Indeed, Mrs. Mouse," replied Mr. Frog,
A cold has made me as hoarse as a hog." '

Carlo was fain to confess that day that it was
a relief to get rid of his little companion. He
sent him off to Merlebank with a friendly scene-shifted,
and sat in a great arm-chair drawn close
to the fire, bearing miserable headache and backache,
yet finding a sort of relief in the consciousness
that he coidd cough and shiver to his heart's
content now that no one was near.

The morning passed in a strange quiet, like
the pause before a storm; the very streets Avec

VOL. II. It

deserted, for all Ashborougli was on the racecourse
; Xita, who was not singing that evening,
was still in her room ; Mile. Do Caisne was
closeted with her dressmaker ; there was nothing
to break the peace of Carlo's solitude, if indeed
such feverish misery could be called peace.

The clock struck twelve, and he started from
a troubled waking dream of Francesca to the
recollection that in another eight hours he should
have to transform himself somehow into Figaro ;
and with nervousness far greater than that which
he had felt at his first appearance, he made his
way to the private sitting-room which was the
joint property of Merlino's troupe, and began to
practise. But five minutes completely exhausted
him, he shut the piano, and in a sort of despair
stretched himself at full length on the hearthrug.

I don't know what is going to happen tome
! ' he thought to himself, with the misery of
a thoroughly hcaUhy man for the first time
attacked by serious illness. ' But if I am to
sing I can sing, that much is certain ; I'll at
least die in harness.'

Resolutely driving back the crowd of cares

that surged in upon him, taking advantage of this

physical weakness, he lay in a sort of enforced

quid,  the quiet which can only conic (o a goodman

well schooled in self-discipline. He was

failing, and knew it all too well, but he knew

still bettor that he was but a unit in the great

army of One who cannot fail, knew that

'lie
Alone may say, "'Ti.s finished all and very good."
We only do a part, and partly Welland
others come and mend it.'

lie must have dozed for a few minutes, for on

suddenly opening his eyes he found thai Nita lead

come into the room, and was looking down upon

him With her beautiful, heartless face, and once

again that look of suppressed excitement which

had pained him so nmch at Birmingham.

You are ill ? ' she said, breathlessly. ' You
are not going to sing to-night ? '

He was on his feet in a moment. 'Certainly
I am going to sig,' he said. ' Marionii advised
mc not to go out this morning, to save up for the
opera, as I have a cold coming on.'

"Where is Gigi ? * she asked, with nervousness,
which he hailed with relief. Since the

child's narrow escape from dcatli lie had certainly
learnt to think much more of him, and
that she should trouble herself as to his safety
\vas something quite new.

Gigi has gone over to Merlebank with a
note ; I meant to have gone to see Miss Claremont,
but thought it wiser to save up for Figaro.
I sent him over with Adamson, he'll take great
care of him.'

But here is Adamson coming down the street
alone. "What can have happened to the child ?
"Why did you send him ? '

She refused to hear reason, but Carlo was
only too glad to be scolded, for every word
revealed to him how much she loved the child.

The discussion was soon ended by the arrival
of the scene-shifter, with a message to the
effect that master Gigi was staying to lunch at
Merlebank, and that Miss Claremont would bring
him back in the carriage that afternoon.

Nita was pacified, and asked Carlo to accompany
her while she practised a new song; she
seemed to forget her first impression on seeing
him, got absorbed in the music, and thought no

more of his possible illness {uicl Comerio's possible
advent. He was relieved, and presently went
down to lunch with her, made a feint of eating
something, and heard with satisfaction that a plan
was proposed for hiring a brake and going on to
the racecourse, since he knew that he should be
left in jjcace most of the afternoon. But as the
hours passed by he grew steadily worse, and not
even the rest and solitude prepared him for the
great effort of the evening. He was sitting
crouched up by the fire, his head resting on Lis
hands, when Domenica Borelli came into the
room. She was tall and stately, with something
both in her face and in her way of walking which
revealed her character, a noble-minded, upright
woman, whom to know was to revere. She was
some years older than he was, and off the stage
lier face bore the stamp of its thirty years.

I thought perhaps you would just go
through " Itaque to son " with me,' she said,
as she crossed the room ; then as she drew nearer,
and could see his face more clearly, 'But I'm afraid
you are really ill, you don't look fit to be up.'

I would rather not try the diirdo now, if

you don't miiul,' he said. ' Don't say anything
to the rest ; I may be better tomorrow.'

But you ought to see a doctor,' she said ;
you ought to have a rest, I am sure. Signor
Mcrlino must find a substitute till you are fit to
sing again, since Fasola is able to take so few of
your parts.'

It may come to that,' he said, with a sigh
that was almost a groan. * I wish I had a
respectable inter-study, who could at any rate
do the work on occasion.'

Domenica Corelli had a woman's quick perception,
she instantly understood the whole
story, that story to which Merlino was deaf and
blind, though it concerned him so nearly. For
the first time she understood Carlo. Hitherto
she had liked him as a fellow-artist, now she felt
that she longed to be his frieiul.

'Is there anything I could do to help you?'
she said, and there was something in her kind,
quiet, unsentimental tone which conveyed to hin
perfectly the sense of that true friendship which,
though many deny it, can most assuredly exist
between man and woman.

111 his great distress of mind and body her
help was precisely what he needed.

Indeed you can,' lie said, with tears in his
eyes. ' If at any time I should be obliged to
leave the troupe,  if I should fall ill,  will you
be a friend to my sister and to Gigi ? '

It Mas asking a hard thing of her, for she
particularly disliked Anita, but, guessing his
reason for asking her, she could not possibly
have refused him.

there is one other thing,' he continued ;
I am unhappy about Sardoni, he is in some
trouble, I think. Be his friend, too, as you are
mine.'

She coloured, not feeling at all sure that
Sardoni was the sort of man with whom friendship
would bo possible.

I don't understand Signor Sardoni,' she said,
doubtfully.

Nor I, just now, but he has been a good
friend to me. I wish you would see a little
more of him ; you might be his good angel.'

She made no very definite promise, but something
in her face satisfied Carlo.

And 3'ou ? ' she said ; * you mean to go on
singing '

Till I come to grief,  yes. I shall make youn
miserable Figaro to-night, but perhaps you'll
put up with mo.'

There was something which touched her very
deeply in his humility, for she kncAV how painful
it must be to his artist nature to face the thought
of attempting a part to which ho could not possibly
do justice.

I shall have the satisfaction of acting with a
brave man, at any rate,' she said. ' It needs no
small courage to face an audience when you
knoAv you can't jdeasc them. Perhaps with rest,
though, you may be feeling bettor ; I shall not
stay tiring you any longer.'

You don't know how much good you have
done me ! ' he said, gratefully, feeling that her
promise in case of his illness had removed part of
the burden from his mind.

She left him to prepare as best he might for
the evening, and to count the quarters chimed by
the clock in the Town Kail, much as a prisoner
niiglit have counted lliem wln'lo waiting for the

hour of execution. Sounds of bustle and confusion
in the street warned liii that the races
must he over ; he left the sitting-room, feeling
quite unable to meet the scrutiny of Gomez, or
to endure the talk of any of his co)ifrhrs, and
dragged himself up to No. 02 ; and here, after a
while, Gigi found him.

What ! gone to bed so earl', san Carlo ! ' ho
exclaimed, trotting up, with his merry little face,
but growing grave and gentle as the truth began
to dawn on his childish mind. ' Arc you better
now ? ' he asked, very anxiously.

I am only resting. Don't look so frightened,
)nio caro.'

They sent you some flowers,' said Gigi,
putting a lovely bunch of snowdrops and
aconites on the bed; 'and here is a letter too.'

Carlo tried to seem pleased, and to take an
interest in the child's account of this day at
Merlebank ; then ho opened Clare's letter. Mr.
Britton would send the close carriage over for
him in the morning, and hoped he would be well
enough to come and say goodbye before leaving
Ashborough to-morrow. The kind words cheered

liiiii, but lie was imicli too ill to look so fur ahead,

and the words of an old Eastern poem floated

through his mind 

To-moiTOW !  why, tomorrow I may be
myself with yesterday's seven thousand years.'

You must go down to dinner, little one,' he
said, after a silence, in which Gigi had sat watching
him with big, solemn eyes. ' If any one asks
Why I don't come, say I have a bad headache,
and shall rest till it is time to go to the
theatre.'

The hours passed by and Gigi did not return.
Carlo imagined that Domenica Borelli had kept
him, and was grateful to her. The clock struck
seven ; he prayed in brief, disconnected sentences
that he might be able to get through his work,
that no evil might befall Anita, that he might
judge rightly as to what could be done. Again,
with a quickness which startled him, the quarter
was chimed ; he tried to think of Figaro, sang a
snatch or two of ' Zitti, Zitti,' and felt that he
Avould have given anything to be able to escape
from that night's performance.

Should he even now follow Domenica's suggestion

and send for ii doctor? Tlicrc was yet
time. For an instant the thought of the intense
relief to himself was almost more than he could
withstand. But then, on the other hand, he
argued, people who had never been ill were apt
to think themselves dying when there Alas
nothing serious the matter with them, and, if
he gave up tamely now, Comerio would certainly
put himself forward to fill the vacancy in the
troupe. No ; he must fight for his post to the
last gasp. The half-hour struck as he formed
his final resolution, and with an effort he flung
back the rugs and coats Which were heaped
up on the bed, staggered to his feet, lit
the gas, and, standing before the mirror, threw
himself into one of Figaro's characteristic attitudes,
and sang a bar or two of ' Largo al

fiirhitlllil.

Passable, if I can only hold out,' ho thought
to himself. ' And, after all, I'm not the first man
who has made merry, and sig, and paced the
stage, with aching bones. Was it Grimaldi or
Listen who made the people laugh till they cried
while he was bearing: torments 't '

lie made his way to the sitting-room and
looked in to see if Sardoni was there, but heard
that he had already started. Merlino joined him
in a grumbling humour ; Gigi trotted up to say
goodnight ; and then, feeling like one in a bad
dream, he found himself walking through the
street among jostling passengers, and getting a
sort of confused vision of the bad faces which
alway's make their appearance in a town where
races arc being held. The distance between the
Royal Hotel and the theatre was quite short, but it
seemed to him that night almost endless ; it was
only by a great effort that he kept up with Merlino,
and when he reached his dressing-room he felt as
if lie could not have stood another minute.

You are ill, sir?' said Sebastianoo, the dresser,
with anxiety'.

It's all right, I will rest a minute,' he replied,
breathlessly'. ' Where is Signer Sardoni ? '

In the green-room, Signer ; ho dressed earlier
than usual. Ijct me call him.'

Xo, no,' sjiid Carlo, (quickly. ' I am better
alone.'

And so perhaps he was, yet Sardoni's defection

pained him  his friend had studiously
avoided him the whole da'. The dresser proposed
all sorts of remedies, and Carlo patiently-endured
the well-meaning chatter till he was
thoroughly equipped in his Spanish costume and
had been duly * made up ; ' then he begged that
no one might disturb him till the very last
moment, and sat crouched up by the little fire,
hearing in the distance the familiar sounds of
the overture and the succeeding choruses. At
last his hour came.

Quite time, Signor,' said Sebastianoo, rapping
on the door. He threw it open and walked
slowly along the winding passages, arriving at
the wings just in time to encounter the chorus
as they came off the stage. Some rumour as to
his illness had got abroad, and many good wishes
and inquiries were made in the quick, silent
Italian fashion from his friends among the
chorus singers. "With very few exceptions ho
was extremely popular in the Company, and
much sympathy was felt for him when it became
apparent that he was far more fit to be in bed
than at the theatre. An attendant handed him a

guitar, lie lieut the orchestra begin the introduction

to his song, and his thoughts flew back

from this miserable present to the sunny past.

He remembered how on his last day of unalloyed

luii)i)iness he had sung this very song in Piale's

room in the Strata Mont' Olivet, and how the

old Maestro had been in despair over his refusal

to o'O on the stao-e.
o o

Thank Heaven he is not here to-night to be
tortured by my bad performance ! ' was his last
reflection as he drew himself together and walked
on to the stage. The house was fill, but by this
time he had become rather discerning in the
matter of audiences and perceived at once that it
had a larger proportion than 07i the previous
night of the rowdy element, introduced into
Vshborough b}' the races. lie hardly knew
whether to be delicacy or-seed at seeing Mr.
Britton and his son in the stalls, and, indeed,
was able to spare little time to thiidc of them,
since he had to devote all his powers to conquering
the agony of nervousness which had overwhelmed
him. In vain he struggled to feel
himself Figaro, his head swam, every bone in

this body seemed to assert itself achingly as
though protesting that it belonged to one, Donatello
ought to have been in his bed at that
moment, and not at all to the blithe, nierr\'
barber of Seville.

Courage ! ' he said to himself. ' If I can't
get into my character I'll at least walk through
the part like a man, for Nita's sake ! '

He set to woi-k manfully, fully conscious that
the conductor-was eyeing him with fear and
trembling, and anticipating some dire mishap.
Still he struggled on, exerting himself to the
utmost and trying to disregard the evident
symptoms of disappointment which began to bo
manifest in the audience. lie would not be
influenced by them, though he was too keenly
sensitive not to perceive the sort of want of
impatience and disapproval which passed owv
the faces of the listening crowd. Endless seemed
the song ! At each brief interval it seemed to
him more impossible that lie should ever gel
through it safely, and the mockery of the oft-repeated
words, ' A/i ! che hcl rircro, cic hvl
fiacre /' made matters still worse. At length

the end drew near ; with relief at the prospect,
and with a desperate effort, he dashed off into
the final and more florid repetitions of * A//, raro
Figaro ! ' not without, even at that moment, a
humorous perception of the effect such words
from such a singer must produce on the hearers.
'were I there instead of here I hoidd laugh
till I cried,' he reflected.

But it was almost over ; he had survived the
last long florid passage ; there remained only
four more notes. Exhausted, strung up to the
very highest pitch of endurance, he tried to take
the quick breath which was indispensable at that
moment, but to draw it seemed impossible. lie
felt a sharp stab of pain as though a knife had
been suddenly plunged in his side, yet the fatal
white stick in Marionii's hand was raised, and
with a last effort he forced himself to attack the

high a

What followed was to him ever after a sort of
nightmare recollection. His voice failed utterly,
and the high note, which should have been the
climax of the song, broke into a discordant sound
that only ceased to ring in his cars when overpowered

by a storm of hissing;. Such a hopeless
failure was too much even for the patience and
kindliness of an English audience ; hisses resounded
on all sides. It Alas intolerable to have
paid money to listen to such a miserable performance.
The people were really angry, and
would not be pacified.

For a moment or two Carlo stood looking at
the angry, contemptuous faces with a sore-hearted
sense of rejection and a keen, personal pain; then,
seeing that they would no longer tolerate his presence
he turned and walked away, but had only
gone a few steps when a sudden remembrance
that this defeat meant Comerio's probable triumph
all at once overpowered him. The brightly
lighted stage became black as night, the hisses
were drowned by a rushing sound in his ears, and
he fell back in a dead faint.

VOL. IL

Chapter XI.

UETIIXD THE SCENES.

"When fop; and failure o'er my being brood,
When life looks but a glimmering, marshy clod.
No fire out-flashing from the living God 
Then, then, to rest in faith were worthy victory!

George Macdonald.

Sardoni aud Gomez, the Alniavlva and Florcllo
of the evening, were close at hand ; Fiorcllo's
part was practically over, but he lead lingered
near to see how Donati would get on ; when ho
saw him hissed off the stage a quiet smile stole
over his dark features, but when he saw him fall
back fainting he rubbed his hands with satisfaction,
lingered but a moment to assure himself
that the baritone lay motionless on the boards
with his guitar beside him, then rushed as fast
as he could to his dressing-room, flung on a
thick brown ulster, caught up his hat, and
hurried out of the theatre. Just outside the
stage door he encountered Mr. Brit ton.

Now Mr. Britton was one of those kindly-looking,
courteous men who are constantly stopped by
passers-by in the street who have lost their way
or who need any kind of help ; Gomez instinctively
turned to the pleasant-looking stranger.

'Pardon me, sir, but can you kindly tell mc
whether it is too late to send a telegram from the
post-office ? ' he asked breathlessly.

Oh no, you will find it open,' said Mr.
Britton, looking at him keenly.

Gomez thanked him, and ran at full speed
down the narrow side street, and two minutes
later he might have been seen standing at one
of the little screened desks in the jmst-officc,
writing the following message in Italian: 

Valentino ill ; was hissed off stage to-night
after " Lar/jo ul factotum* Get paragraph put
in one of London papers. Sec it tomorrow, and
telegraph promptly to M., offering your services.'

Meantime, Sardoni, far too much startled and
shocked to pay the slightest attention to Gomez,
rushed forward to his friend's help, flvmg the
guitar out of the way, and raising Carlo's head,
looked anxiously at his motionless features and

pale lips, bitterly reproacliiiifj; himself with the
absorption in his own affairs which had made
him blind to all else. Some sense of the contrast
between that still form and the noisy
confusion in the theatre first reminded him that
the curious audience were watchings this unexpected
scene in the opera with eager eyes, and
that, although the hisses had changed into a
babel of question and surmise, Carlo was still
exposed to every sort of ruthless criticism.

Toll those idiots to let down the curtain,' he
said impatiently, as Marionii came hurrying forward,
with his pale face and his bushy 'hair,
looking more distraught than usual. The little
conductor had flung down his baton and rushed
from the orchestra the instant Carlo had fallen,
but he was too excitable to think, as Sardoni
thought, of practical matters. And yet it was
a relief to him to be told to do something ; he
rushed away to give the order, and the next
minute the curtain descended, veiling from the
audience the crowd of actors and attendants
which had gathered round poor Figaro. Mr.
Britton, who had been admitted at the stage

door, was just in time to see Carlo borne into
the green-room, and to follow with those who
came after ; he had heard so much of theatrical
jealousies and quarrels, and had formed so low
an opinion of theatrical people, that he was surprised
to see the real sympathy and concern
shown by every creature present.

He has been ill this long time,' said old
Bauer ; ' but he had too much spirit to give in.
Poor lad ! those brutes ought to have seen how
it was with him.'

Thought more of the bad bargain they had
made than of the singer's feelings,' said Tanninii,
with his Yankee twang. 'Well, 'tis the way of
the world.'

'Are you the doctor, sir?' asked Domcnica
Borelli, noticing Mr. Britton for the first time.

'No, I am a friend of Signer Donati's,' ho
replied, glad to get speech of lier, for he had
noticed her quiet, womanly way of helping Sardoni
and Merlino to do all that coidd be done for
Carlo. ' Shall I go and fetch a doctor ? '

'I think it would be well ,' she began.

'But, stay, lie is coming to himself; perhaps

there is no need, and I know ho would dislike
having one called in.'

It's something new for everyone to he waiting
on Valentine,' said old Bauer. 'A reversal of
the usual order.'

Yes,' said Mile. Duroc ; * ho was the factotum
of the troupe as well as of the opera. But, see,
he is reviving.'

And now Mr. Britton observed a marked but
perhaps not wholly unnatural change in fcrlino.
"While this brother-in-law had remained unconscious
he had been as kindly and solicitous as
any man could possibly bo, but the moment
Carlo came to himself, Morlino, relieved from
the anxiety, remembered that as Impresario he
was left in an awkward predicament.

Carlo opened his eyes for a moment, caught
a confused vision of the faces round him, then
closed them again for very weariness, and began
to wonder, in a dreamy but troubled way, whereon
earth he could be. lie hoard !Morlino swearing
and raving, and Tannin, and Bauer, and the local
manager, and Marionii, all talking at once.

Saitfo DiavoJo f cried Merliuo. ' "Was ever

Impresario worse treated ? Here is the best house
we have Ind for months, and what can I do but
give back the money ? There is no going on
without a Figaro ! '

Hud Donati told you this morning that he
was ill you woidd Iuiao had time to telegraph
for Comerio, who no doubt would be willing to
help you in such an emergency,' remarked Gomez,
who had glided into the ;t'Oom.

Mr. Britton glanced sharply round at him,
instantly recognising his face, though he was
now once more in his Fiorello costume. He
perceived at once that the man was no friend
to Carlo, and wondered why he had rushed to
the telegraph office.

*Acci(Icnte! why did you not do so?* said
Merlino, turning upon his brother-in-law with
a wrathful gesture. * I ask j-ou now what am
I to do ? Is all this money to be lost ? '

You might telegraph to Comerio now and
secure him for tomorrow, at any rate,' suggested
Gomez. * He could join us at Quccnbury and
take '

No such thing,' interrupted Carlo, catching

at Salon's arm, and dragging himself up.
'Give "jP/y< Llavolo'' tomorrow, and that will
give me a day's rest ; and go quickly and say
to the audience that I am unwell, but that, since
the opera can't be continued without the leading
part, I will do the best I can, if they'll put up
with me.'

There was a vigour and force in his tone
which astonished every one; Merlino, with a
look of relief, hurried away to pacify the audience
; and, though the others had serious doubts
whether Donati could possibly got through so
trying a part, they would not side with Gomez,
who began to remonstrate with him.

I never saw anyone more afraid of being
supplanted,' said the Spaniard, vindictively. ' For
my part I call it mere obstinacy and conceit to attempt
what it is clearly impossible for you to do.'

'I calculate it doesn't much affect you, my
friend,' said Tanninii, drily. ' Your part is over
for to-night, so just shut up, will you? If the
rest of us who have to sing with Donati make no
bones about it, why should you take upon yourself
to grumble ? '

Gomez turned away with a miittorod
curse, and Carlo looked gratefully at trio
American.

I'll do my best not to put you out ; I shall
be glad for Merlino's sake and my own too if you
and the audience will tolerate such a bad Figaro.
Come to my room with mo, will you. Jack?'
then, as he caught sight of Mr, Britton, and
received a hearty grip of the hand, ' How good
of you to come round ! I had no idea you were
here. I was so ashamed to give you such a miserable
rendering of that song.'

Mr. Britton was not sorry to leave the greenroom
and to go with Carlo and Sardoni into one
of the little dressing-rooms. There were not
many chairs to be had, and Carlo, without ceremony,
dropped into the one drawn close to the
tiny fireplace, unable to hide any longer the
severe pain he was suffering, though when
questioned he made light of it.

You surely ought not to sing,' said ]\[r.
Britton.

It won't do my voice any hanii if I can only
get breath enough,' he replied. *And the pain

isn't continuous, only just a slinrp stab in the
side every now and then.'

Dear old fellow, it was madness of you to
come at all,' said Sardoni. * You must give in ;
you must put up with Coraerio's return ; there is
no help for it.'

Carlo leant his head on his hand and was
silent, as if struggling with himself ; both
speakers seemed to have forgotten Mr. Britton's
presence.

It's no good looking ahead,' said Carlo, after
a pause. 'Of course it will be all right. But
don't argue now, Jack ; I've got to sing if they
will have me, and there's an end of it.'

As he spoke there was a knock at the door,
and Mcrlino entered.

I think they will hear you,' he said. ' They
are in a bad temper, but they sec we are doing
all that can be done, and they'll hardly hiss you
off again. They are very easily pacified these
English audiences.'

Carlo glanced at Mr. Written with the strangest
mixture of pain and laughter in his dark, shining
eyes. The contented look of the Impresario ashe

painted the sort of reception which probably
awaited him tickled his fancy.

*A glass of porter before you go on?' said
Bauer, pressing it upon him.

Try this raw egg, signer,' said his dresser,
eagerly.

Or a troche,' suggested Sardoni.

Or a Stolberg,' said Merlino, producing a
little box full of dark-looking lozenges.

"With a smile and a gesture he thanked
them, and made every one laugh by quoting
Figaro's words, * ost, echo vita ! cJie rite ! oh, die
inesticrc !'

"Was there ever such a fellow?' said Bauer.
I verily believe he would make us laugh if he
were on his death-bed.'

If the audience do but realise his courage he
will be well received,' said Mr. Britton, who was
standing at the wings beside the fdd German
singer. * There is nothing that pleases the
British public like pluck.*

In truth, to face again the audience which
had so lately refused to hear him was no very
pleasant task to Carlo, but then he had a habit

of grasping the nettles of life-which stood him in
good stead. More sensitive than most men, ho
laid turned his weakness into strength by resolutely
refusing to make the smallest concession
to it, and he was able even with overwrought
nerves and failing physical powers to endure
with composure the trying ordeal. It was as
Merlino had said, the audience kindly consented
to put up with him ; they allowed him to appear
without a single hiss. Indeed, the chilling
silence was broken by five or six resounding
claps from the third row of stalls.

That is Francesca's cousin,' he thought to
himself, and he felt glad to have one friendly
face among the hundreds of coldly critical ones.
He was glad, too, to have such friends as
Domenica Borelli and Sardoni to sing with
that night, and was cheered by Mr. Britten's
kindliness. If only he could gel through his
work he thought that, spite of the dark future,
lie should feel perfectly happy, list that was
the great question. All thought he had attempted
what was physically impossible, and he
shrank in horror from cuisine: another exhibition

of himself on the stage. 'If I do faint again,'
he reflected, ' I hope I shall do it decently in my
dressing-room.'

By sheer force of will he got through the
long weary duet \\'ith Sardoni, but it left him
so worn out with pain that he could hardly stand.
He got ois the stage somehow, and the moment
they were out of sight Sardoni took him by the
arm and half dragged him to his room, wherewith
an irrepressible groan, he threw himself on
the floor beside the fire, seeming to find a sort of
relief in thrusting the guitar under his arm so
that lie actually lay upon it.

Pleurisy,' thought Mr. liritton, who had
followed to see if he could be of any use ; but
Carlo was evidently in such pain that he did not
like to talk to him, so he turned instead to
Sardoni, to whom he had taken a great fancy,
and who, to make up for his past selfishness, was
devoting himself to his friend in a way that
encased the Englishman. They discussed all
possible means of helping him, and Sardoni
going out to fetch some restorative brought
back word that Mile. Borelli had been encored

ill her cavatiiia, which would give Carlo a little
longer space to recover his strength.

Arc you sure I am not in your way here ? '
asked Mr. Britton. ' I don't feel as if I could
sit in the audience not knowing how our friend
is getting on.'

Sardoni, who realised that the stranger must
be some relation to Francesca Britton, warmly
assured him that he was the greatest possible
help; and Carlo, though too much exhausted
to speak an unnecessary word, gave him a
glance Which conveyed more than many sentences.


All too soon came the unwelcome call-boy.
Again Carlo braced himself up for the effort,
and Sardoni and Mr. Britton watched him
anxiously through his scene with Eosina.

*IIc is on the stage a great deal after this,'
explained Sardoni, * but the most trying part is
over for him as far as singing goes when he is
once through this scene.'

swill he get through, do you think?'

If he does it will bo by the skin of his teeth,'
said Sardoni. ' But, like the Barbican himself, he

is a "Bravo giocinotto." No other man whom I
know would do it, but he perhaps may.'

Ah, I thought so ! ' he exclaimed, as, the
duet over, the baritone beat a hasty retreat, and
on reaching the shelter of the wings would have
fallen had he not promptly caught him. ' It is
as 1 said, by the skin of his teeth.'

They carried him back to his room, but had
barely restored him to life when Sardoni was
obliged to go on the stage again, leaving him
alone with Mr. Britton.

It was the strangest evening the Englishman
had ever spent, as he sat in the dismal little
dressing-room, with its bare floor and whitewashed
walls, its confusion of stage dresses and
the garments of prosaic life. Some one had
brought in two or three cushions from the
green-room, and as soon as Carlo had recovered
his senses they had laid him on these upon his
left side, the position which seemed to give him
the greatest ease. The firelight played on his
face, and Mr. Britton, as he watched him, found
his thoughts wandering back to the time when
he had first met him with Francesca outside the

iMiglisli cliurcli at Naples. lie recalled the
strange, sad smile which had passed over the
young Italian's face when he congratulated him
on his betrothal, and he felt irresistibly drawn
to a man who could deliberately choose a career
so self-denying, so little likely to be understood.

He was startled to find that his thoughts of
Francesca must have affected his companion.

'We may not be alone again,' said Carlo,
turning his face towards him. 'If anything
shoidd happen to me, will you promise to give
this to Francesca'  he indicated their betrothal
ring  'and tell her how good everyone was t>
me I'' '

Mr. Britton felt a choking sensation in this
throat, but he promised, and then, partly lo
break the uncomfortable silence, remarked that
he had heard from Casa Bella that morning.

They are well ?' asked Carlo.

Quite well. Francesca comes to England in
June.'

The next moment he regretted his words, for
they seemed to give the finishing touch to Carlo's
suffering. He turned abruptly away, and, though

his face was hidden, Mr. Britten could see that
he was struggling to suppress a tempest of
passionate emotion. So little do people understand
each other, that it had never occurred to
the Englishman, with all his hardheartedness,
to picture to himself the torture of a lover who
knows that his love will be close at hand, yet
that he is to be denied even a sight of her.
But that silent, bitter struggle taught him much,
and once more set his kind heart to weave
plans for helping the course of true love to run
smooth.

Before anything more had passed, the call-boy
rapped at the door, and Mr. Britton in dismay
turned to see what his companion would do. He
had yet to learn that Italian storms, if violent,
are brief, and that an Italian nature, if it has
strong emotions, has also a wonderful self-mastery
upon which it can fall back in time of need.
Carlo rose promptly, rearranged his disordered
costume in a business-like fashion, and smoothed
his hair ; then, fearing that mr. Britton might
regret the words which had escaped him, said
in the manner which won him so many friends,

VOL. II. T

Do you nihil coming with me to the >Wngs ? I
like to feel that you are there.'

And before the Englishman had recovered
from his surprise at this unlooked-for composure,
Figaro was in the thick of the noisy group on
the stage, acting better than he lead done all the
evening, and endeavouring to play the part
of peacemaker, and to put an end to the altercation.


Mr. Britton could hardly believe as he-watched
the lithe, active figure, now here, now there, that
a few minutes ago he had seen the same man
lying in the extremity of mental and bodily
pain ; and when once more in the interval between
the acts he and Sardoni had to restore
the Italian to his senses, he could no longer keep
his astonishment to himself.

What in the world can our friend be made
of?' he exclaimed. 'I shoidd not have thought
it possible for a man of this temperament to persevere
in the teeth of such difficulties.'

*I suppose pluck and goodness generally do
go together,' j-aid Sardoni ; ' and though you maybe
Douati's friend, no one who is not in this

troupe can have much idea of what he really is.
He's out and out the best fellow I ever came
across.'

'lie seems very' much liked by most of the
Company.'

Yes, and With good reason. They all apply
to him one of their expressive Italian sayings 
Good as a piece of bread "  a description which
would not hold for the rest of us.'

*He is coming to himself,' said Mr. Britton,
and there was silence in the room, broken at last
by Carlo's voice.

How much more, Jack ? ' he asked, faith'.

The second act,' said Sardoni ; ' three more
scenes for you.'

lie closed his eyes again, and they noticed
that as the evening advanced he became less and
less willing to speak an unnecessary word.

The opera, which had seemed to all the singers
interminable, did at length end, and-with it the
last remains of Carlo's strength. More dead
than alive, he was carried to Mr. Britten's
brougham, which had been ordered round to
the stage door, and leaving the kindly Englishman

to see liii safely home, Sardoni luin-iod off
in search of a doctor.

Carlo had fancied that if only he could get
through the opera he shoidd be perfectly happy,
but when his work was really done he was suffering
too acutely to be able to bestow a thought
on the future or on Anita. Too faint to speak,
ho allowed Mr. Britton to help him up to his
room, never troubling himself to consider the
impression that No, 62 would make on the rich
ship-builder. The miserable little place was to
him now a haven of rest, and there was deep
relief in the consciousness that he could now
suffer in peace, that no call-boy would rap at
this door, that there was no longer the horrible
necessity of acting and singing before a critical
audience. But to Mr. Britton that dismal little
attic was the climax of the evening. Its total
lack of comfort appalled him, and when he had
left the patient to the care of Sardoni and the
doctor he drove home, vowing that Carlo should
be moved to Merlcbank the very next day.

CIIArTER XII.

'high failure.'

'We are like soldiers in a vast, \videlj-oxtendod battlefield
(wrapped in obscurity), of Avliich we know not the
phases, of which we seem utterly powerless to control tho
issues ; but we are responsible for our own part  whatever
goes on elsewhere, let us not fail in that. The changes of
the world, which men think they are bringing about, are in
the hands of God. With Ili, when we have done our
duty, let us leave them.'  Dean CiiUKCir.

Clare was much concerned when slice heard the

bad news which Mr. Britton and Harry brought

home that evening.

You didn't wait to hear the doctor's verdict ?'
she asked, when the bare outline of the story had
been given her.

'No, it was so hit, and I (houglit I should
only have been in the way ; but I fear there's
not the least doubt the poor fellow is in for
pleurisy.'

It was awful to see him towards the end,'
said Harry. 'Leaning up against the woodwork

Avhcn he had to be on the stage with nothing
actually to sing or do, and every now and then,
when he was singing, suddenly folding his arms
so  as if the pain was almost unbearable.'

"\yhat do you think, Miss Claremont  if wc
had one of the St. John's nurses down, could we
manage to look after him all right here J'' said
Mr. Britton.

Clare was delighted at the proposal, for she
had always been fond of Carlo. She did not
understand all Mr. Britten's reasons for taking
an interest in the young Italian, but his kindness
and hospitality did not at all surprise her,
because he was a man who was for ever going
out of his way to help other people, and Kate,
who was housekeeper, used sometimes to protest
that really Merlebank might as well call itself
what it was in fact  a sanatorium for his friends
and acquaintances.

There is no doubt he must be m()\ed from
his present quarters,' said Mr. Britton. ' I never
saw such a room,  the little child sleeping in a
portmanteau, a miserable truckle-bed, a sloping
sky-light through which you could see the stars 

such a room as no servant of mine should sleep
in.'

So the plans for Carlo's reception at Merle-bank
were discussed, and the next morning.
Britton drove in to the Royal Hotel to see
what sort of night the Italian had passed.
At the entrance he encountered the doctor.

'How is your patient to-day, Kavanagh?' he
asked.

Very bad, poor fellow,  must be moved at
once to the hospital.'

Nonsense, he is a friend of mine ; I want
him brought to IIerlebank. You'll give leave
for that, I hope?'

Oh, certainly, if )'ou really want to have
him, but I must warn you that ho is likely to be
laid up for some time,  acute pleurisy, and we
shall do well if we ward off complications.'

Poor fellow ! I thought he was in for it last
night. He is an old family friend of ours, and I
shall be particularly glad to help him if I can.
How about a nurse r' Shall I telegraph for
one ?'

I can see to thai, if you like,' said the

doctor. ' His sister seems a most empty-headed
creature, and the sooner he is away from her the
better.'

Mr. Britton was just wondering whether he
had better ask to see Sardoni, when he caught
sight of Gigi strolling listlessly down the passage.


How is your uncle, little man ? ' he asked.
Can I see him ? '

'He's ill,' said Gigi, mournfully, and without
further remark he slipped his little brown hand
into Mr. Britton's, and led the way to No. 02.
The door was open, and a babel of Italian could
be heard  four people all talking at once.

Mr. Britton half hesitated, but the child led
him on. The next moment a curious scene
met his gaze. In the dismal little attic, which
by daylight looked even more forlorn and comfortless,
a stormy discussion was being carried
on. The Impresario, who was evidently in the
worst of tempers, held in his hand an open
telegram ; Gomez, with a sarcastic smile on his
usually grave face, stood playing the part of
general irritant con ainorc ; Madame Merlino

and Sardoni seemed to be having a battle-royal ;
and the sick man lay in the midst of the strife of
tongues evidently in great pain, but listening
with strained anxiety to all that passed. Mr.
Britton heard an impatient, ' Can't you sec how
bad this is for him ?' from Sardoni, and disconnected
remarks about ' Comerio's coming,'
which gave him the clue to the matter which
was being discussed.

He waited at the door, for Donati "was far too
much absorbed in what was going on to notice
him, and indeed had to concentrate all this
faculties on the effort to meet this crisis. That
which he had feared had come to pass : Comerio
had telegraphed to offer his services ; and all
through the weary night Carlo had been trying
to solve the difficult problem whether, should
this happen, it was his duty to explain all to
Mcrlino or not. Superficial people are fond of
saying that the right is always clear. Carlo did
not find it so. It was only after hours of mental
struggle and suffering that he at length arrived
at the conclusion that, all things considered, lie
was not justified in arousing Merlino's suspicion.

lie went so far, however, as to propose another
alternative.

Look,' he said, speaking with difficulty,
Paul Comer's English Opera Company might
very possibly have a spare baritone. Telegraph
and see, and I will defray the expenses of anyone
they can send.'

He broke off to cough  the effort had cost
him hideous pain, and Mr. Britton could see that
great drops of perspiration stood on his brow.

'Acci(h>fc ! It only" shows how little you
know of such things,' said Merlino, angrily. ' AA'e
are secure of Comcrio, and had far better have
him than some stranger. I should have thought
you were above such petty jealousy as that,
Donati.'

'Then will you reply to the telegram ?' asked
Gomez.

I suppose I must,' said Mcilino, in his
grumbling way. ' It's a confounded nuisance.'

And with muttered imprecations he left the
room, evidently regarding Carlo's illness as a
wilful injury and a personal insult.

Gomez having gained his object, followed the

Impresario, and Mr. Britton drew near to the bed,
and spoke to Sardoni, but Carlo lay with closed
eyes, and took no notice of what was passing
until he heard Nita get up from her chair beside
him, and move towards the door. Then he started
up with sudden energy.

Nita,' he exclaimed, ' do not go yet  I want
to speak to you ! '

She turned back reluctantly, and at the same
moment ho became aware of Mr. Britten's presence.


How kind of you to come ! ' he said. ' Vill
you excuse me just for a minute ?  I want to
speak lo my sister  there is not much time
left.'

Wq will wait in the next room,' said Sardoni,
' if Madame Mcrlino will tell us \hen she
leaves you.'

Nita assented, and, still reluctantly, sat down
again beside the bed. When they were alone, he
turned towards her.

I had hoped to tide over this time in England,'
he said, striving with all his might not tolet
the physical pain overmaster him. ' It is

Lard to feel that, after all, I have perhaps only
made your danger greater. You must forgive
nic for failing you like this, Nita ! '

Don't distress yourself  I know of no
danger ! ' she replied, crushingly, and with an
expressive motion of her small, shapely head.
There had been a time when she had told him a
very different story, but he bore the set-down
patiently and caught at the ray of hope.

'That is, indeed, true? Then God be
thanked ! I can go content ! '

She laughed  the most heartless little laugh
conceivable.

Perhaps we do not mean precisely the same
thing by the word " danger." There is no danger
that my husband will ill-treat me, because one
who loves me better will be here as my protector.'


Nita ! ' he groaned.

Now, listen to common-sense ! ' she said,
with angry gesticulation. 'Merlino and I are
not happy together : Comerio and his wife are
not happy together. Why are four people to
live in misery because of a conventional law i''

Because tlicy have vowed to be true to each
other through everything,  because the only
hope of their evading pure, noble lives is destroyed
when they shirk their duty, and give up
trying to love each other,  because it is not a
conventional law, but God's command ! '

She laughed again.

Bravo ! ' she exclaimed. * My Confessor himself
could not have read me a more correct little
homily. As far as the marriage laws arc concerned,
mio caro, you are quite curiously orthodox.
As a matter of fact, though, I always find these
little homilies are propounded by the unmarried.
Strange, isn't it?'

You'll break my heart if you talk like that ! '
he exclaimed.

Nonsense ! Hearts don't break so easily, I
assure you. Yo\i will go back to Francesca
Britton and be happy ; Comerio and I, too, shall
be happy ; while as for Merlino, he will merely
lose a valuable soprano and baritone whom he
never deserved.'

She had rattled on, paying no attention whatever
to his suffering. He was now so much

exhausted that It was physically impossible for
him to speak more than two words.

Our mother ! ' he faltered.

Is in Paradise, and will be ready to ]era)' forme
when I am in purgatory ! '

His next words were hardly audible.

// Crista V he gasped.

*My Confessor does not allow me to talk of
religion with heretics,' she replied, triumphantly.

He turned away, and lay so absolutely still
that Nita became frightened; however, it was
an excellent opportunity to escape, and she
availed herself of it, glancing in for a moment
at the next room where Sardoni and Mr.
Britton had waited.

He has done with me now,' she said cheerfully,
though all the time her conscience was
pricking her.

!Mr. Britton had seldom seen so pretty a
woman for whom it was so difficult to get up
mary sort of regard. Without knowing why, he
heartily disliked Nita.

'She does not seem particularly anxious about
her brother,' he remarked.

Sardoni gnashed his teeth.

He lias given up everything to help her, and
she  little vixen  won't do the slightest thing to
please him. Let us come back to him,'

Mr. Britton was horrified to sec the change
that had come over Carlo. It was not merely
that the bodily pain seemed to have increased
so much, but that he was in such terrible
distress. Sardoni, however, seemed to understand
all, and Mr. Britton walked to the Window
and left the two friends together, though lie
coidd not avoid hearing, ever' now and then, a
sentence or two.

Failed  hopelessly ! ' were the only words
that escaped Carlo, and Sardoni seemed to bo
cheering him, and denying that all was lost,
promising his help, talking of letters, and speaking
hopefully of the future. Some mention of
the hospital brought Mr. Britton to the bedside.


The doctor says }'0u may be nursed at my
house,' he said, kindly. *I couldn't think of
allowing you to go to the hospital,  Miss Claremont
is longing to have you at Merlebank.'

And then, to silence the Italian's thanks, and
doubts, and evident \vaverin<>, ho bent do\\Ti and
whispered a few words in his car : ' For Francesca's
sake you must not refuse me.'

They were interrupted by a suppressed sobbing
from the other side of the bed, and found
that Gigi was sitting in a disconsolate little heap
on the floor, crying as though his heart would
break.

Put him up here. Jack, by me,' said Carlo.
'What is it, Gigi? are you hurt?'

Oh, don't go away from me ! ' sobbed the
child. * Don't leave me so all alone.'

'Let him come to Merlebank, too,' said Mr.
Britton, who was apt to make kind-hearted offers
without at all consulting Kate or the household
arrangements.

You are very good, but he ought to be with
his mother,' said Carlo, after a minute's thought.
It cost him much to send away the little fellow,
but he knew that Anita had really begun to care
for him, and hoped that the child might prove
her greatest safeguard. Mr. Britton guessed as
much, but of course there could be no explanation

to Gigi himself to ayIioiu the refusal must
have seemed barbarous. lie sobbed pitifully.

Look, mio caro, I love j'ou dearly, and would
like you to have this time in the country,' said
Carlo, drawing the child close to him ; ' but in
some ways it is better not. Say, do j'ou, too, love
me a little bit?'

Yes, yes,' sobbed Gigi, clinging to him.

Then, will you stay here to please me, and
help the mother, and run errands for them all

when you can, and write rac long letters '

He broke off, unable to say another word.

Cart no .'' said the child with a depth of love
and tenderness in his tone. Then, as Sardoni told
him how ill Carlo was, * I will be good  good,'
and choking back his tears he slid down from the
bed and sat like a sorrowful little statue on the
edge of his portmanteau.

Mr. Britton, anxious that no more time
should be lost, hurried to his office to telephone
to Mcrlebank for the landau, and in an hour's
time he was back again to help in all the
arrangements.

The patient seemed a little easier, both in

VOL. II. XI

mind and body, though apparently no one but
Sardoni had seen him, and there was no change
as to his substitute.

At the hist moment Madame Mcrlino came to
say good-bye to him, expressing very prettily lier
thanks to Mr. Britton for saving her brother
from the hospital ; but she seemed particularly
anxious not to be left alone with the invalid,
and apparently no words passed between them.
When they parted, however, he drew her face
down to his and gave her a lingering kiss, and
Mr. Britton noticed that as she raised her head
her eyes were full of tears. "What was the
meaning of it all, he wondered ? Had she, after
all, a heart? Did Carlo's silence appeal to her
when his words had failed ? or was it that his
manner had somehow conveyed a confidence and
trust in her higher nature which had wakened it
from long sleep ?

There was not nun-li time for reflection, for
just then the doctor arrived to superintend the
removal of the patient, and before long fr.
Britton had taken leave of the various members
of Merlino's troupe, who had become known to

him (luring this little episode, and was driving
home with his new guest.

People seem to have a notion that to be ill
means to be more or less free from temptation;
that with physical weakness comes spiritual
strength ; and that if the sick are in some ways
to be pitied, they are in other respects to be very
much envied. As a matter of fact, however, this
idea is cruelly false. No healthy-minded, active
man ever found it easj to be laid aside  ever
submitted without a fierce struggle to the humiliation
of dependence and bodily weakness. Far
from necessarily becoming saints during illness,
the bravest and best of men often find it as much
as they can do to be even decently patient, and
know only too well the mental misery of the

time 

When the sensuous frame
Is rallied with pangs that conquer trust.'

The faith which lead come to Carlo's help
when he parted with Anita was not proof against
the severe physical strain of the removal to
Merlebunk ; his mind seemed incapable of hope,
capable only of dwelling on the one horrible

fear that Comerio's evil influence would prevail.
Sleepless nights, and wearing anxiety, and severe
bodily pain had made it almost impossible for
him to see things in due proportion, and his
artistic power of calling up before him graphic
pictures of any subject that arrested his attention,
became a torture abnost unendurable.

The doctor and kind-hearted Mr. Britton had
no idea of what was passing in the sick man's
mind as they drove along the road between
Ashborough and Merlebank, and when once he
opened his eyes for a minute and they could not
help seeing the look of grievous distress in them,
they only thought of the bodily suffering, and
said to him reassuringly, ' It will soon be over.'
He could have smiled at the incongruity of the
words had he not been down in the black depths
where smiles can by no means come.

The carriage rumbled along with a dull,
hollow, monotonous sound, and presently drew
up at the great door at ISIerlebank ; he caught
a vision of Clare standing in the porch with two
or three servants, but it Alas far less distinct than
the mental picture from which he could not

escape. Then the doctor half smotlicrccl liii
with wraps, aucl since to breathe was agony, he
found himself resenting almost childishly the
infliction of great shawls, which necessitated two
breaths where one might have sufficed. AVas he
losing his self-control, he wondered? It was
clearly impossible for him to govern his thoughts,
was it also impossible to regulate his feelings ?
He praj'cd in a sort of blind, wretched despair ;
but in that state of blank depression nothing in
heaven or earth seemed real to him but his own
failure and that indelible mind-picture of Nita
and Comerio. Dandy he felt his misery increased
by the beauty and luxury of the room to which
he was borne, and even by the kindness of his
attendants. "What did he in his misery want
With outer comfort ? * I have miserably failed,'
he thought to himself ; ' and now, I suppose, am
going to die. I wish they had let me die in
the hotel room ! I wish the' would let me
alone I '

To turn from this waiting picture Alas now
an effort to wliicli he was wholly unequal ; it
exercised a deadly fascination over him, and

VOL. II.

wbcu Clare spoke to him lie grudged the interruption.
Everyone seemed intent on relieving
his physical pain ; and it was not that which
absorbed him : it was the far worse mental
torture caused in great measure by the bodily
suffering,  the torture of the conviction that all
hi efforts had been vain, and that evil would
triumph. Without one ray of comfort he tossed
through that weary day and night ; sleep was
out of the question, he became less and less
capable of thinking rationally, and the doctor,
on visiting him the next morning, looked very
grave. Clare and Mr. Britton waited anxiously
for his verdict.

There is evidently something weighing on
his mind,' said Mr. Kavanagh, as he walked downstairs.
* The local symptoms arc subsiding, but
I fear he is in a critical state. These southern
temperaments are always hard to deal with  it
is touch and go with them. Keep him as quiet
as possible, and I will look in again this evening.'

Clare felt sad at heart as she kept watch
while the nurse rested after her night's Avork ;
she could guess pretty accurately what it was

that was weighing upon Carlo's mind, but how
to comfort him she did not know. lie lay quite
still with closed ejes, his lips just parted that he
might breathe with less effort ; but the hand
which lay outside the bed-clothes was tightly
clenched, and the face bore an expression of
silent misery, which was almost more than Clare
could endure.

Is the pain still so bad ? ' she asked at
length.

He opened his eyes ; they were so hopeless,
so full of dumb distress, that it seemed to her
they must be the eyes of some other man. She
could not have bclicAed that Carlo could ever
have gone down to such depths of wretchedness.

Much better, thank you,' he answered, just
above his breath ; and Clare was thankful that
his eyelids fell once more, for she could not keep
back her tears. And so the hours passed on, and
she knew that she was close to a man who was
passing through the worst suffering that can be
borne, and yet felt as powerless to reach him as
if he had been a thousand miles away. At last,
early in the afternoon, he seemed to make an

effort to break the rigid quiet in which he had
so long lain. She stood up to arrange his pillows
afresh, and he took her hand in his and held it
fast in a fevered grasp.

If I could only sleep, Clare ! if I could only
sleep ! ' he exclaimed. They were the first words
he had voluntarily spoken, and she took them asa
good sign ; clearly he began to see that he
must do all that he could to free himself from
absorption in this one painful idea ; even in his
illness the duty of self-mastery lingered vaguely
with him, spite of his failing powers.

There is one sovereign remedy for sleeplessness,'
said Clare. ' Let us sec whether it will
have any effect on you ; ' and taking a Bible
from the shelf she began to read in a low, soft,
slightly monotonous voice from the Book of Job.
Whether it was the musical rhythm of the words,
or the continuous sound, or the graphic picture
set forth in that grand old poem, it would be
hard to say ; but for some reason the mental
picture of Anita and Comcrio gradually faded,
the perception of his own pain passed away, he
seemed to be living quite out of the nineteenth

century'  to be Job and not liiinself,  though it
Ava.s, ill fact, the personal perception of the truth
of the poem-which made its effect on him so
powerful

" For the thing which I greatly feared is
come upon me," ' read Clare ; ' " and that which I
was afraid of is come into me. I Alas not in
safety, neither had I rest, neither was I quiet,
yet trouble came." '

NYhen Elisha the Emanate began to argue.
Carlo felt himself sliding away into blissful
drowsiness, and soon Clare perceived that the
old charm had worked well and that he was sound
asleep. He slept for some hours ; when he
opened his eyes the level rays of the setting sun
were streaming through a window which was
hidden from him by the bed-curtains, and casting
a vivid light on a picture just opposite to him.
Now Carlo was one of those who respond more
easily to that wliicli appeals to the artistic
side of them than to that which appeals to tho
intellect. The deepest philosophical treatise,
the most eloquent sermon, could not possibly
have conveyed to him all that was conveyed by

that well-known picture of the thorn-crowned
Shepherd bearing through the wilderness the
sheep that had gone astray. / FlSCllk Vahhia
trocata!' urged a voice in his heart: 'Until ho
find it ! ' It seemed to hin that he had never
till that minute realised the eternal constancy of
the Good Shepherd, never taken in the truth that
while men strive, and fail, and faint by the way,
the work they have tried to do does not fail, but
is eternally carried on in ways unknown to them.
He saw that for the present all lie could do was to
suffer patiently ; but the picture of Nita and
Comerio, though it did its best to rise again in his
mind, lead lost its power of torture ; he could
always efface it almost instantly with this other
picture of the tireless and persistent Shepherd,
who in the end must inevitably win back this
own, spite of false hirelings, and ravening wolves,
and horrors of the wilderness. One glance into
his eyes showed Clare that ho was himself again,
and the doctor, too, on his second visit, was surprised
and pleased to find what a favourable turn
his patient had taken. The alarming prostration
had passed; that terrible depression which seems

incapable of wishing to live or of making any
effort to recover had given place to a strong desire
for health. Though speaking was still an
effort to him he asked two or three eager questions.
Shall I get better, do you think ?'
Oh, there is not a doubt of it, if you go on
as well as you have begun,' said the doctor.
'Will my voice be injured?'

There is no reason that it should not be as
good as ever when you recover your strength.'

How soon could I possibly be fit to sing in
public again ? '

The doctor liked his spirit, and answered with
a smile, * This day nine weeks, if you have no
relapse. But don't excite yourself about it, and
don't talk too much. What you Avant now is perfect
rest of mind and body.'

One word more,' broke in Curio. ' Is there
anything I can do to get well sooner?'

You can help me very materially bj' obedience
to orders, and by keeping yourself quiet. All
anxiety and excitement will retard your recover'.
This attack of pleurisy is the best thing that could
have happened to you, for you are altogether overworked

and overstrained, and 3-011 must have rest.
In these hurrying days people seem to have
forgotten how to rest, that's the worst of it. If
you'll only go on as you have begun this afternoon
though, I shall be quite satisfied with you.'

As Sardoni had once remarked, however. Carlo
was in some respects 'old-fashioned,' and the
doctor found that he had not forgotten even in
his overstrained, nineteenth-century life the secret
of rest ; that he was fast learning what Thomas a
Kempis deemed the work of a perfect man, ' To
pass through many cares, as it were without care ;
not with the indifference of a sluggard, but with
that privilege of a mind at liberty.'

END OF THE Second VOLUME.

LONDON :

Printoil by Stiunoewavs & Sons, Tower Stool, T'ppir SI. Mr(in'< I.t

BY THE AtrraOR Of

DONOVAN

VOL. II [.

EDNA Lyell

AUTHOR OF

DONOVAN,' 'W TWO,' 'IN THE GOLDEN DAYS,' ETC.

But all through life I see a Cross,

Where sons of God yield up their breath ;

There is no train except by loss,

There is no life except by death,

There is no vision but by Faith,

Nor (glory but by bearing shame,

Nor Justice but by taking blame ;

And that Eternal Passion saith,

Be emptied of glory and rig-ht and name."

Oli-ig Grange. Walter C. Smith.

IN Three VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

IIURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

18, Great MARLBOROUGH STREET

1887.

AU lights received.

irsi

CONTENTS

Tick THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

A RESTORATION.

Some say that the age of chivalry is past. The age of
chivalry is never past as long as there is a wrong left unredressed
on earth, and a man or woman left to say, " I will
redress that wrong, or spend my life in the attempt'* Trio
age of chivalry is never past as long as men have faith
enough in God to say, " God will help me to redress that
wrong ; or if not me, surely He will help those that come
after me. For Ills eternal will is to overcome evil with
good'' '

Charles KlNGSLKY.

Kate Briton was an indefatigable worker; parish
work was her delight, and to her mind the luckless
wight who did not go district-visiting, who
was not an ardent teetotaler, who could not show

vol HI. R

a well-ordered Sunday's school class as the visible
fruits of persevering work, liardlj deserved toleration.
Like all workers who are worth much she
was full of enthusiasm, and would have been
greatly missed in the village ; but she was ' ill to
live with,' because eho had not yet learnt to soothing
from any point of view but her own, and
had an overweening idea of her own importance.
Carlo Donati was just now much on her mind ; she
had a feeling that he must have been brought to
Merlebank for some special purpose ; and as it was
Kate's way to think always of the impression she
might make on others, rather than of the impressions
she might receive from them, she began
to consider how she could bring her influence to
bear on the Italian, and her enthusiasm was roused
by an idea which came to her one day as she mused
over his life. What a glorious thing it Mould be
if she could convince him that ho was leading a
life unworthy of a true man, and induce him to
give up his profession !

AVith this in view, Kate put up with the
infliction of the invalid's presence, and when ina
fortnight's time he was well enough to spend

most of the day in the morning-room, which
adjoined his bedroom, she was really glad to
have an opportunity for beginning her operations.
As a rule she cordially disliked young
men, and the one thorn in the otherwise perfect
bliss of her parish - work was the inevitable
curate ; in her fear that she might be supposed
to make her work an excuse for flirtation, she
ran to the opposite extreme, openly avowed herself
as a man-hater, and snubbed the entire
biennial succession of deacons, who were ordained
to the title of the quiet little country parish,
but at the close of their two sears' novitiate
invariably passed on to larger spheres of work.
The morning-room was a bright, sunny,
cheerful room, facing south, and Carlo enjoyed
his change of quarters very much ; he was glad
to sec Kate, too, for she interested him, and he
delighted in tracing the slight likeness to Francesca
which he lead noticed when he first came
to Merlebank. Kate, who was inordinately self-conscious,
quickly perceived that his eyes followed
her as she moved about the room arranging
flowers in the vases, and she felt provoked, for

it would be so horribly like a story-book if the
invalid were to fall in love with her ; yet she
could not snub him as she snubbed the curate,
because she wanted to influence him for his
good, and longed for the honour and glory of
persuading him to quit the stage. Reflecting
that this was the Monday in Holy-Week, she
thought she would supply him with suitable
literature  at any rate the offer of books would
make a good opening for conversation. So she
began boldly, yet with an effort that surprised
her ; somehow, although she had astonishing
theories as to the universal depravity of young
men, she had an undefined consciousness that
Carlo Donati was not so immeasurably beneath
her as the curates and the men to be met with
at dances and tennis-parties. This perception
did not please her.

Clare said your things had been put in here,'
she began ; * but I don't see anything but music,
no books at all.'

I don't think I have any,' said Carlo ; ' I am
not much of a reader.'

Halo f(>lt distract, she could liavdlv ooncoivo

that any one could get on in life without her
particular little library of good books. It was a
slight relief to her to discover that among the
pile of operas, wedged in between MasanicUo
and Semiramis, were a shabby, little Italian
Testament and a vei'y minute English Prayer-book.


Carlo on seeing this last gave a quick exclamation.


Did I leave that out ? Will you give it me,
please ? '

And caen this is not yours, but Francesca's ! '
she said, laughing, as accidentally she dropped
the book and noticed her cousin's name on the
flyleaf.

He coloured,

She lent it to me the first time I wont to
the English church, and since then I have always
had it,' he explained.

It is dreadful print,' said Kate, in her matter
of fact way. * You had better let me lend you a
clearer one.'

But Carlo held out his hand lor if, and his
fingers closed over it jealously.

It will do very nicely,' he said. * I don't
suppose I shall read it.'

Which illogical statement would possibly
have roused Kate's suspicion had lie not been
racking her brain for the devotional books most
appropriate to his case.

She went across to her own particular bookshelf,
and, to do her justice, chose out a few
books really worth reading ; eschewed a Treasury
of Devotion, as likely to be uncongenial to one of
Carlo's turn of mind, and returned bearing The
Christian Year, Taylor's Iloly Living and Dying,
and a book of meditations for Holy Week, of
which she was fond. He thanked her, but when
later in the morning she saw him again, she
found, to her great disgust, that he was poring
over Lcs Huguenots, and that her books were
pushed aside.

'You didn't like Iceni r" she said, will a
touch of disappointment in her lone.

I'm afraid I didn't read nmch,' he said,
apologetically ; ' you sec to have this music
within reach was more than I could resist. "\Vo
have not yet done Lvs Jliigiienota, but we shall

rehearse it in the summer, and give it in America
this autumn. Do you know it well ? '

I have never heard an opera in my life,' said
Kate, feeling annoyed at his astonishment. ' Do
you really mean to go back to such a life ? It
must surely bo very bad for you.'

But you sec the doctor quite gives me hope
of being as strong as ever again,' replied Carlo,
thinking she must refer to his health.

I didn't mean that,' replied Kate ; ' I meant
it must surely be a very bad life in other ways.'

It is very much like other lives, I fancy ;
it is what you like to make it,' he replied, quietly.
He did not feel that he could very well enter
into a discussion with a young girl on the special
temptations of stage-life, and there was a silence.

But surely all the applause and praise must
be very trying?' said Kate.

Applause always makes me think of a
Hieniif/iic,' said Carlo, laughing a little ; * sweet
and evanescent, and leaves you longing for more.
I don't deny that it is a great pleasure, and a
great help, but I think it is a very innocent and
legitimate pleasure.'

It must surely make you very vain?'

Well, I hope not,' said Carlo, smiling. ' Of
course every artist lias to be careful not to get
into the way of thinking that his powers arc
merits instead of gifts. Years ago I heard Togni
play at Naples, and you know when our people
applaud they applaud tremendously; I shall never
forget the deafening outburst ; but it seemed tome
like a great thanksgiving to God who had
given such power to men. It was not Togni
we applauded, it was the wonderful beauty and
power which he had unfolded for us.'

But clearly,' said Kate, ' the life must be
full of excitement. Surely your constant craving
to get back to it again shows how engrossing and
dangerous it must be.'

He coidd not explain to her that it was no
anxiety for applause which made him so eager
to be back once more in Merlino's troupe, so he
turned the conversation, and Kate naturally concluded
that her remark had struck home. She
despised him for evading the subject, but noticing
that he looked tired, offered to read to him.

lie seemed relieved at the proposal, and opening

the Christian Year, asked her to read over
again something which had taken his fancy.

Exactly like his perverseness to choose the
Tuesday in Whitsun-week on the Monday in
Holy Week,' she reflected, knowing nothing of
his "Whitsuntide associations. Moreover, the
poem was the last one she would have expected
him to like ; it seemed a mockery to her that a
man who was ' fooling away his life on the stage '
should be struck with the lines,

And wheresoever on t'<arth's wide field,
Ye lift for Ili the red-cross shield,
lie this your song, join joy and pride 
Our Champion went before and died." '

It IkkI never occurred to her as a possibility glutton
operatic singer coidd appreciate sentiments of
that sort. And she would have been scandalised
and dismayed could she have known of the unconscious,
matter-of-fact way in which Carlo
would go from the altar to the theatre, or, if it
suited him better as to time, from the theatre to
the altar.

Very much perplexed as to the Italian's
character, she walked that afternoon down to

the village, but had scarcely left the grounds
when she encountered the Vicar.

I Alas just coming to your house,' he remarked.
' I hear you have a young Italian staying
With you, and was coming to inquire after him.
Is he better ? '

'Oh, he is much better, thank you,' said
Kate. ' I wish you would go to sec him, for
perhaps you who feel so strongly about such
matters would be able to persuade him to leave
the stage. I can't understand him at all ; ho
seems quite wrapped up in his profession, and it
is so sad to think of a really good man wasting
his life in work of that sort.'

I shall be very happy to see him,' said the
Aicar ; ' it will be quite a treat to me to talk
Italian again ! ' And without more delay he
made his way to the house, smiling to himself a
little at Kate Britton's eagerness to influence all
she came across, and rather pleased at the prospect
of a new acquaintance in his small and
not very interesting parish. He had preached
only a little while ago against theatres, and
it was satisfactory to be brought face to face

in this wa' w'lih. a veritable mcnibcr of the
profession.

Having received u message that Signor Donati
Avouch be very glad to see him, the Vicar followed
the servant upstairs to the morning-room, where
he found the invalid on a couch drawn close to
the fire. lie was surprised at his fluent English ;
his accent, too, was perfect, and it was only by
a very slight peculiarity in the intonation, and
every now and then by some unusual little bit of
phraseology, that he betrayed his foreign birth.
His face, however, was unmistakably Italian,
and, though he was evidently weak and tired,
the Vicar thought him looking much less ill
than might have been expected after so serious
an attack. The formal greetings were only just
over when Carlo, having thoroughly studied
the strong, intellectual face of his visitor  his
calm, deep-set eyes, and the sort of general air
of 'iron-grey' which characterised him  exclaimed,
with an excitement which surprised io
Vicar, 

I believe, sir  indeed, I am quite sure  that
we have met before ! '

Now, the Vicar had at that moment been
thinking of his sermon at St. Cyprian's, and
admitting to himself that this actor, at any rate,
did not at all fit in with his preconceived notion
of the members of the * unhallowed calling,' so,
naturally enough, he thought that Carlo must
refer to this occasion.

Can you have been in the congregation at
.St. Cyprian's when I preached there the other
day?' he exclaimed. 'I little thought I was
addressing any one connected with the stage.'

Ah ! Alas it indeed you who preached that
sermon ? ' said Carlo, quickly. * Yes, I was therewith
my friend Sardoni, the tenor of the Company
; but we were quite at the back of the
Church, and could not even see the pulpit. Was
it indeed you who preached ? That is one of the
oddest coincidences I ever knew.'

But when can you have met me before ? '
said the Vicar, looking puzzled. ' Can I have
met you in Italy and have forgotten ? '

Do you remember being in Naples last May,
and going one afternoon into one of the vaflt'H in
the Piazza Plebiscite, and talking with your companion

as to the improvement ol' \hv world in
general in the nineteenth century ?'

"With Stanley !  yes, yes, I remember it
quite Avell ! ' said the Vicar.

Do you remember how you said that men
were not more willing to live the life of the
Crucified? Well, I was sitting close by and
heard you, and I owe you much, for those words
haunted me continually, and  but this will, I
fear, shock you  they helped me to choose my
present profession.'

The Vicar smiled a little. lie could just perceive,
though not so clearly as Carlo perceived,
the irony of the situation. Mr. Britton had given
him a hint as to Donati's motive in going on the
stage, and had expressed a hope that the Vicar,
if he had any opportunity, would do his best to
dissuade him from returning to it, feeling convinced
that Madame Merlino's case was hopeless.
And now to be told that it was in some degree
owing to words of his that the choice had been
made was, to say the least of it, startling, while
the knowledge that the Italian had been listening
in St. Cyiu-ian's to his Prado against tlu>atros

vexed him not a little. The Vicar was a kindhearted
man, though many people considered him
hard ; but, as a matter of fact, the idea of having
denounced such a man as Donati to his face, and
having probably pained him, caused him serious
annoyance.

M have always disapproved of the stage,' he
said, after a brief pause. ' I3ut I am exceedingly
Sorry that you heard that sermon the other night,
for it must have seemed hard and unjust to you,
I am afraid.'

I will tell you quite candidly just how it
was,' said Carlo, ' It did vex me, I must allow,
but then I was beginning to feel ill and overdone,
and had had rather a rough time of it through
the week, and it seemed hard to lose the sense of
fellowship which one counts on getting, at any
rate, in church. But what vexed me most of all,
and perhaps made me exaggerate your denunciation,
was that my friend Sardoni, who does not
go-in much for church services, happened that
night to have come with me.'

'Did it do him harm, do you think?' asked
the Vicar.

Carlo hesitated.

lie was very angry about it,' he said, at
length ; * unreasonably angry, I thought. But
he has a good deal to trouble him, and there
were reasons which made any attack fi-boni tho
Church on our profession specially painful to
him.'

lie broke off as tho door opened, and looked
with feverish eagerness towards tho servant mio
entered with the afternoon letters. Just at this
time he seemed to live in perpetual craving for
post-time ; for not only was he terribly anxious
to hear from Sardoni how matters were going in
the Company, but he had always an undefined
hope that someone at Merlcbank would hear from
Francesca, and that at least some fragments of
the letter might be read or quoted in his presence.
This afternoon there arrived the letter
from Sardoni for which he had looked and waited
so long.

'AYill you excuse me just for one minute?'
he said. * This is from my friend Sardoni, of
whom we were just speaking. If you \ill allow
me  I am ashamed to ask such a thine?  but I

am very anxious to see how things are g'oinj
with them.'

He opened the envelope, tossed it aside, and
began to read eagerly. Involuntarily the Vicar
glanced at the handwriting of the direction. It
was large and marked  a peculiar and thoroughly
characteristic hand. The colour rose to his forehead
 his lips trembled. He waited, partly' to
recover his self-control, partly to allow Carlo
time to glance through the letter,  then, with
undisguised eagerness, he exclaimed 

'This friend of yours. Signer Donati,  what
did you say he was called ?'

Sardoni ; he is the primo fciiore of our troupe.
Such a good-hearted fellow ! I don't know what
I should do without him.'

But that, perhaps, is an assumed name !
What is his true name ? Is he not an Englishman
?'

He is English, but he keeps entirely to his
iiom-de-giierre,' said Carlo.

Even you, his friend, do not know his true
name ?'

Yes, I do know it ; but ho does not wish it

generally' known. Have you any special reason
for asking ? Good heavens ! ' he exclaimed, as an
idea suddenly occurred to him ; ' can it possibly
be That which altered him so much after the
sermon ? Sir, I beg you to tell nie your name !
I have only heard you spoken of as the Vicar.'

'My name is John Postlcthwayte,' said the
Vicar, watching with anxiety indescribable the
effect of his words on the Italian.

There was no mistaking the intense excitement
which dawned in Carlo's face.

You saw and recognised this writing ? ' ho
asked, breathlessly, pointing to the envelope ;
then, as the Vicar signed an assent, * Thank
God, I have come across you ! I see there can.
be no doubt that you are his father ! '

Tears started to the Englishman's eyes.
Carlo observed this with relief. The Vicar did
not seem nearly so hard and uncompromising as
Sardoni had led him to expect.

My son was here, then, in Ashborough ! '
he exclaimed  ' was actually in the church that
night, and never came near me ! I have !?pcnt
my life in looking for him !  have wandered all

VOL. Ill, u

over the Continent in the hope of finding him
once more !  and does he now avoid and shun
me when we are in the same town ? '

It must have been that which made him
feel the sermon so much,' said Carlo. * lie
know you disapproved of the stage ; he was
afraid you would not believe that he had
turned over a new leaf  he told me that long
ago ; and then, of course, when he heard you
speak so strongly against actors and their calling
he would naturally be repulsed and disheartened
! '

The Vicar paced the room in great distress.
It was indescribably bitter to him to realise that
his son shoidd have happened to hear that one
sermon, and to reflect that the whole course of
his life might have been altered had his theme
been of reconciliation and charity.

But all Mill be Mell now,' said Carlo ; * for,
if you have searched for him, then you must
really care to be reconciled to him  and, indeed,
he wishes your forgiveness. The very first day
after we landed in England, he went straight to
your old home, fully expecting to find you there.

It was then he told me all about it, and gave me
his true name. Poor Jack ! I shall never forget
his misery when he found a stranger in your
place.'

'Did he go, indeed, to the old home?' said
the Vicar, eagerly. * My poor boy ! if only I
had been there to meet him! But surely he
could have found out in the village where I had
gone to ? '

He did send me to make inquiries,' said
Carlo, ' and the old sexton told me you were at
Cleevering, in Moonshine. But when Jack
found how, through his fault, your home had
been broken up and your work spoiled, he said
he could not write to you or seek you out.
Indeed, I doubt if we shall ever get him here
imlcss we take him altogether by surprise. He
would say that he would not come back to be a
disgrace to you in a new parish.'

Then I must go to him ! ' said the Vicar.

Carlo hesitated. He pictured to himself the
sort of meeting that might take place in one of
the second-rate hotels, or in the dingy lodgings
which Merlino's troupe frequented, where privacy

was out of the question, and where Sardoni,
because of his surroundings, would certainly not
show to the greatest advantage. lie thought of
the gossip) which would be set afloat in the troupe,
and realised how distasteful it would all be to his
friend.

If you don't mind,' he said, ' I think it would
be much better if I wrote to him and begged him
to come down and see me ; I think I could write
urgently enough to bring him, and on Good
Friday there will of course be no opera, and it is
possible that he might even be able to arrange to
stay over Easter Sunday. "Will j'ou mind just
handing me that pocket-book, and I will see where
the Company will be? Ah, yes, I thought so; they
will be at Worcester, and on the Saturday will be
giving Maria. I have no doubt that Merlino
will let Cashier take Lionel in Jack's place ; he
did so once in the autumn.'

Spite of his excitement and anxiety the Vicar
could not but perceive that his visit was tiling
the invalid.

I am ashamed to have forgotten your illness
in my own great joy,' he said, rising to go. * I

little thought what news awaited me when I came
here'

This is worth being ill for,' said Carlo. * I
shall write to Jack by the first post tomorrow.'

Probably the doctor would highly have 
had he known of the little plot which
was being worked out in his patient's room ; but
only Clare and Mr. Britton were taken into the
secret, and in truth the excitement and hope acted
like a sort of tonic, and Carlo forgot for a time his
own anxieties in planning his various arrangements
for that eventful Good Friday. Sardoni
had written to say that he would come at half-past
three in the afternoon, and Carlo awaited his
arrival in some trepidation. Remembering the
unpleasant sensation he had experienced at Piale's
house of having been entrapped, he abandoned the
rather stage idea which had first suggested itself
to him, of allowing Sardoni to be shown in upon
his father without any preparation. Nevertheless,
he was too thorough an Italian not to be dramatic,
and the Vicar was glad enough to trust the management
of all to one who really knew his son
much better than he coidd pretend to do. He

lislcnod to tho Italian's ideas with soin surprise,
but lie did not call them in question. Sardoni
might now be expected to arrive at any minute,
and the Vicar, waiting with Carlo in the morning-room,
was enduring tortures of suspense and
anxiety.

'When we hear him arrive,' said Carlo, quietly,
'I want you to go through that inner door into tho
next room ; leave the door ajar. Then, when Jack
comes, I will tell him tho whole truth, and how I
came across you, and how you recognised his
writing. That being settled, T shall ask him to
help me to my bedroom. When you hear us
get up, then leave my room where you have
waited by tho other door, leading into tho
passage, and come back here. I know you
are thinking me like a stage-manager, but,
don't you see, this is the only means of getting
me out of the way. You will now meet alone
and unobserved ; Jack will have been prepared,
and will not feel that we have dealt unfairly'
by him; and yet he will in a sense be surprised
when ho goes back to find you there,
because he will have been bracing up his

mind 1o the idea of seeking you out nt the
A'icarag-e.'

All these little considerations would never
have occurred to Mr. I'ostletlnva'te ; he was
dreadfully afraid that something would not work,
that he should make a blunder and forget
when to make his exit, or bj' what door. But
Carlo seemed to have perfect confidence in his
little plot ; and when the supreme moment
arrived, the Vicar, waiting in the inner room,
began to feel confidence in the man who had
planned all-with such perfect appreciation of
the feelings of others, and whose sole thought
of himself had been how, when his work was
over, he could best be got out of the way.

And now a brisk, familiar step was heard
in the passage, the maid-servant announced
in the most prim and ordinary way, ' Signer
Sardoni,' and the next moment Jack strode
into the room. The Vicar bit his lip hard ashe
heard the hearty, cheerful voice which had
been silent to him for so many years.

Well, old fellow, how are you ? Why',
you are looking almost yourself again. This

is a case of Mother Hubbard's dog ; I thought
I should find 3'ou ready to make j-our last
will and testament, as j'ou were so anxious to
see me once more. I shall take back good
news for the troupe; we are all longing for
j'ou back again, though Comerio tries hard
to be civil, and to win golden opinions. And
that reminds me, Val; I've just hit upon a
way of turning an honest penny.'

Yhat's that?' said Carlo, getting in a
word with difficulty.

'Why, I mean to write a sensational article
for one of the Ilcvicws, on the Italian Character.
The motto to bo the old nursery rhyme, adapted,

Ashen they are good, they are very, very good,
And when tlioy arc bad they are horrid."

That man is a fiend, his cunning and malice are
beyond anything I ever knew.'

'Presently I want you to tell me all,' interposed
Carlo, seizing at once on the momentary
pause. ' But, Jack, first of all, there is smelling
I must tell you. What parish do you
think this house is in ? '

'Parish! How should I know?' said Sardoni.

It is ill trio parish of Coverings said Carlo
quietly.

Sardoni sprang to his feet.

Good God, Donati !  and did you bring mo
here for that reason ? Have I not told you that
nothing will induce mo to revive the old disgrace ?
Look here! that attack we heard in the church the
other night on the stage  that was spoken by my
father ! Do you think, after that, he would care
to have mo coming home ?'

I know lie would,' said Carlo. * Don't be
angry. Jack ; just hear me quietly to the end.
I did not betray you, but your father has found
you out.' He told him graphically' just what had
happened, then continued : ' Do you think ho
was thinking of the " disgrace " when he threw
up everything to go and search for j-ou on the
Continent ? Do you think he cares a rush for
what people say when his first impulse was to go
straight to Worcester and see you ? Perhaps it
would have been better, after all, if I had not
suggested this other plan.'

No, no ! ' brijke in Sardoni ; * I could never
have stood that. Kit yet, I doubt if I can do it,

Veil. Il Ans liiird enough last time will j'ou.
And alone ! No, I can't do it ! You'll never
know what it is to an Englishman  the mere
walking up to the house and ringing the
bell!'

]put 3'ou wovdd at least do as much as that
for one who has tramped all over Europe for
you ?' said Carlo.

'It's not that,' said Sardoui, brushing his
hand impatiently across his eyes. * It's not that
I mean ! Upon my soul, Donati, I think you
are too good to understand how it is with me.'

Carlo replied only by one of his expressive
gestures.

'Too tired to discuss the matter further, we
will say. Give me an arm, will you. Jack ? I
will go to my room and rest, and will see you
again later on.'

'I forgot how ill sou had been !' said sardonic,
with compunction. 'And now I have tired you,
and thought only of my own affairs, like the
brute that I am ! '

He helped him into the adjoining room, and
Carlo, conscious of much the same sensation about

alio ho:irt as he lind felt on alio nifhf of this first
appearance in public, dismissed liii.

'If you ring the bell in the next room,' he
remarked, * they'll show you to your room, or,
if you make up your mind 1o go to the Vicarage,
steer for the church tower, and you can't mistake
the house, for they say tlierc is none other
near.'

I wish you were about, and could go there
with me,' said sardonic, with a sigh.

You arc much better alone. I told you last
time I should only haec been in the way. Now
for my siesta. A rivcdcrci /'

Sardoni turned away slowly and With a sort
of reluctance  almost as if he were already in
imagination rehearsing that difficult return which
Carlo had spoken of. To steer straight for the
cliurcli tower ! "NVliat a walk that would be ! 
Avliat a fight would he invoked in every step !
Ill' closed the door, and once more re-entered
the morning-room. AVas that Mr Britton standing
by the window ? Bui at the sound of Ic
shutting of the door the figure turned, and
crossed the room in eafcr haste.

Sardoni's heart beat like a sledgc-liamraor ;
tho tears rushed to his eyes.

Father ! ' he faltered. ' Did you come ?  
are j'ou here ?'

And Carlo himself would have been satisfied
could he have seen the manner of their meeting.

"When they could speak, the Vicar replied to
the incoherent question.

It was your friend's doing ! lie thought
this would be the best place.'

It is all his doing ! ' said Sardoni, in a choked
voice.

There was a pause, broken at last by the
father.

Let us come home together ! ' he said.

And Carlo, lying tired-out in the next room,
heard the door of the morning-room open, and
knew that all was well, and pictured to himself
how the two would walk together towards the
house by the church, and how Sardoni would
smile to himself when he found that tlicre
was no question as to ringing of bells, since
the father would throw the door wide, and
himself take him into the new home where

even dark memories would not be allowed to
enter and spoil the peace of their reconciliation.


But what passed he never actually knew,
because there arc things too sacred to be put
into words  things which men learn to take on
trust even with their closest friends.

Sardoni returned in the evening, and talked
of Anita, and Comerio, and Gigi, and of the
various vicissitudes of the Company in the last
three weeks. But on Easter Eve, in the morning,
when Carlo, like a true Neapolitan, desired to
begin the Festa, the Vicar came true to his appointment,
and with him came his son.

You will have the necessary third without
me,* whispered Clare, thinking they would rather
be alone. * I will go.'

No,' said Carlo. ' I should like to have you
both, if you don't mind. Jack, this is my friend.
Miss Claremont.'

Clare welcomed him quietly, and the two
friends just gripped each other's hands, and not
another word passed between them till they had
joined in their Easter communion.

The Vicar was a man of large experience,
and he had learnt not to be very much surprised
at the extraordinary coincidences of life, and to
believe in the truth of the saying that it is the
unexpected which happens. But, with all his
knowledge of life, he would hardly have credited
the Avords of one who had foretold to him that
within a few weeks of his denunciation of the
stage he should be under the deeiDcst of obligations
to an operatic singer, and should have
joined with him, and with his long-lust son, in
the most sacred act of worship and sign of
fellowship.

C II A P T K U 1 1.

Convalescent.

Look not on thine own loss, but look beyond,
And take the Cross for priory and for guide.'

Mus. Hamilton King.

WiiKN tbc excitement of Siirdoni's visit was

over, Curio flagged a little, but tbc weariness

uiul languor were far less trying to bear than

what followed. He could live patiently enough

through those days  could even enjoy the family

life going on around him  could be quietly

amused at Kate's efforts to conform him to her

own ideal of what a young man should be 

could find comfort in talking to Clare about the

old days at Casa Bella, and about his mother.

But by-and-by, when his strength returned,

there came very different days  days when he

J'elt that to live any hunger without Francesca

was more than mortal man could bear  days

when in very truth his own words to her in

the belvedere were fulfilled, and to be without

her was to be crucified. His love for Francesca
was no light sentiment, no passing fancy ; it was
the strongest, most ardent love that man can
feel for woman. He loved her with his whole
being  with the passionate warmth of a southern
nature  with the force of a pure and noble soul
with the lofty, undying devotion of an awakened
spirit. It was inevitable that he should suffer ;
and though of course such times were nothing
new to him, he could not in his present state
plunge into work, or into the affair's of other
people, as in his ordinary life he had found comfort
in doing.

Worst of all, he knew that his kindly host  
the only one able to guess what was the matter
with him  desired nothing so much as to see him
quitting the stage and marrying his niece.

But if pain was inevitable, failure was not so.
lie loved as a man loves at four-and-twcnty, but
he had the strength of one who has resolutely
denied himself and honestly tried to be true to
his profession ; ' his strength was as the strength
of ten.' And when Mr. Britton urged his view
jf the case upon him with the bcbt and kindest

of intent ious, he ahva's fell back on the certainty
that his duty had been made clear to him, and
on the faith which was his great stronghold,
and which, in its fearless unselfishness, differed
as much from credulity as day from night.

Strangely enough, the man to whom he instinctively
turned most at this time was Sardoni's
father. lie disagreed with the Vicar on politics,
on many theological points, on the question of
the stage, and on most other things, and yet
there was something in the man's great goodness
which made all else quite a secondary consideration,
which even made one forget his tendency
to lay doTi the law, and only delight in the
sense of his devotion. "Without that touch of
dogmatism he would nave been a saint ; his
failing interfered a good deal with his influence
in most quarters, but with Carlo hardly at all.
The beautiful goodness of the man attracted him
t(jo strongly, and quite eclipsed all else. It was
a relief, too, when he was allowed to go out again
for the briefest of airings on sunny days when
the wind was favourable ; and after a time ho was
able to read Dante with Kate and Lucy, and to

VOL. III. u

study Zama, and, little by little, to find that the
outer world was not so altogether flavourless as
in his dark days it had seemed.

One sunny spring day, when the doctor had
allowed him to go for a short drive, Clare and
Kate took him for the first time outside the
Merlebank grounds, and drove him through the
little village of Clavering, By this time he had
himself pretty Avell in hand  had schooled liini-
self into a sort of content with incompleteness 
had worked himself round to the state in which
he could feel that it was at any rate something
to be with Francesca's relations, to hear her
name every now and then, to be at least certain
of knowing if she were in any particular need or
trouble.

AVe may as well call for the letters as we are
passing the post-office,' said Kate, drawing up at
the village shop. Lie sprang out of the chaise,
Carlo offering to hold the pony for her. He had
neither ridden nor driven since he had left Italy,
and the mere feeling of the reins between his
fingers awoke new life within him ; it was long
since he had been able really to desire any

attainable thing, but now lie was seized with a
strong desire to ride one more, and the mere
capability of wishing was a relief. lie had an
almost boyish pleasure in feeling the movements
of the pony's head as it champed the bit, in
hearing the impatient pawing of the ground.

Two letters for you, Clare said Ivutc, reappearing
; and Clare took them rather anxiously",
and opening the one from her home began to
read.

None for me ? ' asked Carlo.
Not one,' said Kate, tossing two or three
envelopes on to the vacant scat. He instantly
detected tluit one of them bore the blue stamp of
Ital*. "Was it from Francesca ? he wondered, or
perhaps from Captain Ih'itton to his brother ?
It was something to be staying in a house where
letters were received from Casa Bella, and yet
it was a sort of torture to him to sit quietly in
the pony-chaise, obliged to content himself with
studying the length of King Humbert's moustache
and the big letters of * Napoli ' on the
postmark. Doubtless, he thought, the letter had
been posted as they went in to church on Sunday,

unci he hardly knew whether the thought made
him feel nearer to his love or more hopelessly
cut off from her. He did not dare to ask any
questions lest he should awaken Kate's suspicion,
but he hoped against hope that she would speak
and put him out of his suspense. Kate, however,
talked of the scenery, and the weather, and the
spring-green of the trees, and of every unimportant
thing under the sun ; but of that letter
she said not a word, and he had to endure
walking upstairs behind her when they reached
the house and seeing her disappear with it into
her ovn room.

It was hard ; but then sore need had taught
him to be thankful for small mercies, and he
cheered himself with the reflection that at any
rate he was now tolerably certain that the letter
was from Francesca herself, that by this time she
know of his illness, for Clare had mentioned it
in one of her letters, and that it was even remotely
possible that the Captain might have
permitted her to send some message. Torturing
himself with hopes and fears after the manner
of lovers, he waited as long as he could make

himself wait iiirslairs, then, with (ho liopc prc-
(luiiiinaliug and alio impatience no longer to be
vc-si.stc(l, found his way into the drawing-room
and looked eagerly round for Kate. The room
A\a.s empty, but on the mantelpiece there gleamed
the blue King Humbert and the big 'N.vroLi,'
and the direction in Francesca's own writing to
Miss Britton, Mcrlebank, nr. Ashborough,
Inghilterra.'

lie longed to snatch it up and kiss it, but
restrained himself because even the envelope
was not his ; with a sigh he crossed the room
and tried to make the time pass by playing all
Francesca's favourite airs, and after what seemed
a long while the footman came in with the afternoon
tea, and was soon followed by Mr. Britton.

You are early home this afternoon,' said
Carlo, leaving the jiano and shivering a little ashe
came over to the fire.

T have an appointment at Cheering at
half-past live, and thought I would snatch
a cii) of tea on the way,' siiid ]mr. llritton.
You dfm't look quite so well ; I'm afraid you
have been overtirinfi: voiirself.'

Oh, no, thank j'ou,' said Carlo, wondering
how his companion could stand within a j'ard of
Francesca's letter and not notice it. ' I have
been for a drive to-dav, and enjoyed it very much.'
'That's right,' said the shipbuilder, in his
kindly voice. * We must begin to lionise you
now that you are getting stronger. You ought
to go over to Bancroft Castle : it is a fine old
Norman ruin. You would find a great deal to
interest you there.'

Carlo thought differently ; at any rate just at
the present moment he was inclined to wish all
fine old Norman ruins at the bottom of the sea. It
was horrible to feel that he, with his ardent love,
must be patiently polite, and must depend on
others for the smallest scrap of tidings from
Francesca. At length old Bevis, the deer-hound,
came to his help, by stretching up his head and
licking his master's hand. Mr. Britton bent
down to pat his old favourite, and as he raised
his head again his eye was attracted by the
foreign letter on the mantelpiece.

Ah ! ' he exclaimed, ' a letter iron Casa
Bella? What news?'

I do not know .said Carlo. ' I was not here
when Miss Britton read it.'

Something of the chafed, impatient craving,
which was making tumult in this heart, found its
way into his voice. Mr. Britton, understanding
all perfectly well, felt very sorry for him. He
took up the letter, and going out into the hall
called his daughter.

Kate came running downstairs in reply to the
summons, looking hurried and annoyed.

How early you have come home, father ! '
she exclaimed. * I was just trying to get the
Mothers'-Mccting " accounts right.'

I am sorry to have interrupted you, mj
dear ; but will you make tea, for I have to go
down to the village directly ? '

Kate, in no very good temper, approached
the tea - table, perceived that the tray was
crooked, and set it straight with a gesture betraying
inward irritation. Carlo, as usual, offered
his services with the kettle, but was so absentminded
that he was far from proving an efficient
helper, and only made Kate feel that everything
was conspiring together to annoy her. Surely

only a lover could have been so absent as to
go on filling a teapot till it overflowed, and to
be deaf to repeated orders to stop ? "Was this
tiresome Italian really going to fall in love With
the daughter of his host like the hero of a
novel ?

All his apologies could not make her unbend
from the chilly reserve in which she encased
herself.

'What news from Casa Bella?' asked Mr.
Britton, when the disaster on the tea-tray no
longer engrossed the general attention.

Oh ! ' said Kate, bestowing a cup of tea on
Carlo with a frigid air that was quite lost on
him, * Francesca writes to ask if she may come
next week instead of in June. It's very provoking,
for I shall be so busy just then, and
there will be no tennis or anything to amuse
her.'

Carlo did not dare to raise his eyes lest the
wild rapture of hope which was filling them
should become visible to Kate. He sat mechanically
stirring his tea, making so strong an effort
to control his face and keep his joy secret, that

he felt as if his features must have become as
expressionless as a block of wood.

I don't fancy sbc is much of a tennis
said Mr. Britten. ' Is there no enclosure
for mc ? '

Oh, yes, I beg jour pardon, father ; I quite
forgot; there is a lino for you from Uncle Brit ton
and a little note from Francesca, too.'

Mr. Britton glanced through them, then deliberately
handed Francesca's note to Carlo,
possibly intending his daughter to draw her own
conclusions from the act.

I am glad she comes earlier, you two are old
friends, and it would be a pity that you should
not meet.'

But Kate observed nothing, for she was full
of her preconceived theory. She did not notice the
quick flush which rose to Carlo's brow as he took
the letter; instead, she was secretly resolving to
lose no opportunity of snubbing the Italian, and
proving that she was quite indifferent to him, and
\\as above that despicable feminine weakness of
falling in love with a handsome face and a fine
voice.

'Will j'ou hnvc any more tea, Signer Donnti?'
she asked, in her coldly' polite voice.

No more, thank you,' said Carlo, looking up
for a moment from the letter.

His eyes startled her, there was an expression
in their dark, liquid depths which she had never
seen before in the eyes of any man. She got up
quickly.

If you'll excuse me, father, I will just finish
those accounts,' she said. ' Clare and the girls
will be down directly.'

Meanwhile, Carlo, feeling like one in a beautiful
dream, which is only marred by the dim
consciousness that there must be an awaking,
read and re-read the following note : 

Dear Uxri,E Geokoe,  Thank you so much
for your letters ; I never thought it possible
that father would let me come, but something
in 3-our note to him has made him consent ; and
also, perhaps, something that has happened here
makes him see that I had better leave home for a
little while. It was just like you to keep your
promise in that way, and be Carlo's friend, and

just like you, too, to write so often, for I have
l)een dreadfully anxious. Father says, can you
conveniently meet me, or send some one to meet
me, at Charing Cross by the tidal train on
"Wednesday morning ? He does not much like
mc to come such a long way alone, and the lad''
-with whom I travel from Naples only goes as far
as London.

Ever, dear Uncle, your loving niece,

'Francesca Britton.'

ITe had his moments of unalloyed bliss, then
came the inevitable awaking.

Do you think I ought to go away ? ' he said,
returning the letter to Mr. Britton.

There was something so appealing in his tone
that Mr. Britton felt a genuine thrill of pleasure
in being able to answer, with a clear conscience, 

Certainly not ; the most scrupulous sense of
honour can't demand that, since her father is perfectly
well aware that you arc staying with us.'

'What do you think makes him willing tolet
us meet?' said Carlo, anxiously.

'AVell, to speak quite frankly, I think that

probably Francesca lias just refused some good
offer of marriage, and that my brother finds that
it is hopeless to see her settled in life as he would
wish Avhile her heart is here at Merlebank. Very
possibly he hopes,  as I, too, confess I hope,  that
circumstances will lead you to see that it is useless
for you to continue any longer on the stage,
and that all may end well, and you and Francesca bo
vcr} happy ever after," as they say in the stories.'

Carlo was silent, for suddenly, in that comfortable
English drawing-room, there flashed
across his mind the old temptation, M'hich he
thought could never have risen again after the
decisive blow dealt it in the garden at Villa
Bruno. This time the strong joint of his character,
his genuine humility, was appealed to.

See,' urged the tempter, * you are wrecking
Francesca's life and your own all from an overstrained
notion of self-sacrifice. Is it likely you
will succeed in saving Anita? Leave that to
Ix'tler and wiser people. All the best men and
women you know think you are mistaken,  think
that you will fail. Arc you going to be so
headstrong and conceited as still to persist in

tins unnecessary sacrifice ? You have tried your
best, and have failed,  you know that you have
miserably failed. To go on longer would be mere
presumption and vanity.'

He turned any and stood in the window,
looking out at the mellow western sky and at
the grassy slopes beneath the trees in the park,
where slice were peacefully feeding. The sight
nuule him think of the thorn-crowned Shepherd.
list instantly the fiend turned even tin's to his
advantage, and beset him more vigorously than
ever.

'Are you so stupid and vain as t(j think the
world needs such a man as you to take care of it i
Go home to Italy, and live the peaceful life for
which you are so much better fitted. ])o you
think the Good Shepherd needs ijouv help ? Do
you think He can't get on just as well without
bijou ? '

]hut the vision of the Constant Shepherd
would not fade, and a voice, less vehement but
more familiar to him, said plainly, ' Follow le.'

Do you mean to say,' resumed the fiend,
that you are going to bear all your life this's

miserable incompleteness? Remember what you
have siLffercd this last fortnight ! If you think
you can bear such misery for long you are mistaken.
All your life long  think of it !  think of
it ! If you dream of being strong enough to bear
such a life you vastly overrate your own powers.'

But again, more clearly, the other voice
repeated, * Follow Me ! '

At this minute Clare and the younger girls
entered the drawing-room.

Have you had tea, Signer Donati ? ' said
Molly, who dearly loved officiating at the tea-table
in the absence of her elders and betters.

'Did you like your drive?' chirped Flo,
dancing up to him in her free, childish fashion.

He came back with an effort to the outer life,
and began to hand about plates of cake and bread-and-butter,
and to wait upon every one, as was
his wont, while Mr. Britton told Clare about
Francesca's visit.

Why, that will seem delightfully natural to
have both j'ou and Francesca here with me,' said
Clare. ' You will like to meet her again, and
hear all the news from Pozzuoli.'

*Ycs, unless my doctor lias poriiilttcd mc by
that time to set to-work again said Carlo,
quietly.

Oil, but lie will not ; 3'ou know he said nine
weeks from the first.'

Yes, yes,' said Mr. Britton, * you need at
least three more Avccks' rest before thinking of
work,  myself I doubt if even then you will be lit
f(jr it ; we shall sec what Kavanagh says.'

No more passed on the subject just then, but
after dinner, when Harry had left the diningroom
to escort Kate down to one of her evening
classes in the village. Carlo spoke once more
about it to tr. Briton, having gained much
in the interval.

"What I want to ask j'ou is this,' he began,
in his direct, unembarrassed way ; ' Am I justified
in staying on here in the same house with Francesca
whcTi I have not the least idea of renouncing
the stage, when I hope to be able to resist all
temptations to yield, when I sincerely believe
that Captain Britten's expectations will be
frustrated ? '

I like you the better for thinking out the

matter so frankly said Mr. Britton ; * but it
seems to me that the responsibility rests with my
brother. If he chooses to send Francesca here I
don't see that you are bound to trouble about his
expectations. I suppose it will, at ans' rate, be
some comfort to you both to meet even as ordinary
acquaintances with other people around, and I
advise you to get what pleasure sou can out of
the slight concession my brother has been willing
to make. " Take the goods the gods provide
you." You can certainly do that with a clear
conscience.'

Thank you,' said Carlo, gratefully ; ' it has
been a great help) to talk it over with you. I
think I may stay.'

The week of rapturous expectation huit
followed was the happiest he had known since
the abrupt ending of his betrothal. He went
about with a glad light in his eyes, which made
Kate more and more repressive ; his step was no
longer the step of an invalid, his voice grew
stronger each day, he felt in harmony with the
delicious spring weather, for all cares had faded
from his mind, and he was conscious once more

of youth and liopc,  conscious that of late he had
felt preposterously old, and that now he felt
ridiculously but delightfully young.

Counting the days, and indeed the very hours,
he lived through the interval, and at length the
day on which Francesca was expected came. But,
to his surprise, as it advanced the expectation
changed to torment ; he could only sit watching
the clock, and from time to time looking from
the window with a restless agitation which put
happiness out of the question. At last the
supreme moment arrived ; he heard the wheels of
the carriage and the sudden rush of girls from
the schoolroom ; then Clare looked in for a
minute.

She is just here ; but don't come out into the
hall, Carlo, for the wind is so cold to-day.'

He made some sort of reply and felt relieved
that Clare left the drawing-room door open as
she hastened out to greet her old pupil. Good
heavens ! how was he to meet her like an
ordinary acquaintance ! Elis breathing was
laboured, his heart throbbed, he trembled from
head to foot ; yet through it all he listened with

VOL. III. E

longing indescribable. Ab, yes! that was ber
voice ! above all the tumult within and without,


'How are you, dear Clare?' it said; and
again, after a pause, * A beautiful crossing, thank
you. Wby, Flo, bow you have grown ! '

Tbe voice was drawing nearer and nearer, the
oppression grew frights ul. With an effort be rose
to bis feet, and at that instant caught the first
glimpse of bis love as sbe crossed the ball  the
pure, sweet, delicate face, with its lovely colouring
; the slight, lithe figure ; the grey eyes,
seeking him out eagerly, yet so shyly. He
went quickly forward to meet her, unable to
feel for very excess of feeling, bewildered and
overpowered by the tumult that her presence
caused.

And yet it was all over so soon, this meeting
which he had rehearsed so often, both waking and
sleeping ; a conventional hand-clasp, a smile
carefully regulated, a few quick words of Italian,
since bis native tongue came naturally to him,
and for the moment he could not remember a
single word of English. After that there was a

paths which he did not dare to l)rcak because
ho knew he could not steady his voice, all he
could do was to try to look and move naturally,
and to get back the perception that his arms were
his own in time to hand about the cups of tea
which Kate, in her cool, business-like way, was
preparing.

After a while he began to hear what the
others were saying, and soon Francesca's sweet,
low voice thrilled through him once more, and
before long ho was carried away by the happiness
of the present, and, forgetting the past, dared to
put in his oar, so that the conversation became
general, he taking a natural share in it, and
falling back to the old footing of the days when
Francesca had been his playmate and friend.

At first the mere possibility of looking at
her, talking to her, and waiting on her, kept him
happy. When Mr. Britton was present he was a
little less at his ease, because ho knew that the
kindly host was well aware of their story ; but by
day, when only old Mrs. Britton, or Clare, or the
girls, were present, he seemed really able to ignore
the past, and act as though their three weeks' betrothal

had never been. The sense of helping
her to play this part, the knowledge that he
could shield and protect her, was no small incentive,
though at times he half wished that
Captain Britton had permitted Clare to be told,
because her sympathy would have been so well
worth having.

As to Kate, both the lovers were unable to
help being amused by her, for Francesca quickly
perceived her desire to convert Carlo to her own
ideas, and Carlo instinctively knew that she had
perceived it.

But one rainy morning, when the two girls
were at work in the morning-room, Francesca
found that there are times when an undeclared
love-story has its disadvantages.

I have hardly seen you alone, yet,' began
Kate, ' and there is so much I wanted to talk to
you about. But you see I have been so frightfully
busy since you came; indeed it has been
one incessant rush of work all through the
spring, and having Signer Donati here takes up
more time than people might fancy.'

It was so good of uncle to ask him here,' said

Francesca, keeping lier eyes fixed on her needlework.


Father is always doing tluit kind of thing.
But wo have never had a visitor here for so long
M-hom I felt to understand so little ; I don't think
I like him very much.'

Don't you ?' said Francesca, stifling a strong
inclination to laugh.

Well, he is so deceptive ; he gives you tho
impression of being so good and thinking so
much of other people, and yet I can't make out
that he has done one single stroke of good, useful
work in his life. lie seems to mc exactly like
the fig-tree which had nothing but leaves. IIow
can he bear to waste his life on the stage ?'

You must not malign my old friend,' said
Francesca, flushing crimson, yet still feeling
mure amused than angry, because Kate was so
ludicrously mistaken, and so perfectly convinced
that she nest infallibly be right.

Well, since you are his friend, do just
candidly tell me,  Is he so good as Clare makes
out? Is he really so delightful as my father
bcems to think?'

The scoptlciil stress on the ' Is he ?' made the
question all the more embarrassing. To be coolly
asked her unblessed opinion of the man she loved
was a new experience to Francesca ; for a moment
she lost her presence of mind. What in the
world could she say ? IIow was she to gain the
composed tone needful for a reply ?

Oh, yes, indeed he is ! ' she said at length, ina
tolerably natural tone. * I have loiown him for
years and years, you know.'

And then, because the answer seemed to her
so absurdly inadequate, and because she was
vexed with Kate for having asked such a question,
she felt ready to cry.

But, luckily, Kate was not observant. She
went on serenely, 

'Well, for my part, I don't understand that
kind of man. I don't think I understand
Italians at all.'

At that moment Carlo entered, overhearing
the last words. He at once guessed that Kate
had been attacking Francesca as to his character,
and knowing that they would feel uncomfortable,
said in his easy way, 

Not even after all our Dante readings, Miss
IJritton ? lias not our great poet raised your
opinion of his countrymen ? I am afraid you are
very hard on the South.'

Well, frankly,' said Kate, * I don't understand
southern natures ; and why you are so
wrapped up in your country I can't imagine.*

'You sec, to you, Italy is merely "a geographical
expression," as Prince Metternich used
to say. To me, it is the land for which my
father, and his father before him, fought and
died.'

lie broke off rather abruptly, afraid of rc-
peUiug her English natui-o by too much warmth
of utterance, lie had not lived .so much among
1-jiglish people without learning to restrain his
pcech, and bring it round pretty nearly to tho
conventional terseness of a true Briton. Francesca
knew that, had they been alone, a torrent of
Italian would have escaped his lips, and the full
force of his eager patriotism woidd have been
revealed.

You will think me very blunt,' said Kate,
but I really don't see what you Italians have to

be 80 proud of. I don't see that you have any-great
men to boast of  except, of course, painters
and musicians.*

Carlo laughed. ' You will at least allow us
Dante ? '

Dante belongs to the world,' said Kate.

True, that might be said also of Shakspeare ;
yet Shakspeare is English and Dante is Italian.'

Dante counts among the artists,' said Kate,
in her decided tone, * You have no other great
men.'

Francesca sat watching the disputants, intensely
amused at Kate's calm, argumentative
manner ; as to Carlo, he seemed gradually losing
his English sobriety, and the more Kate attacked
his nation the more Italian he became.

What ! ' he exclaimed. ' Do you then wish
for greater men than Galileo, than Savonarola,
than Columbus, than Daiiicle Manu, than
Mazzini, than Garibaldi ? Is it nothing to have
produced a man of science like Galvimi, a saintlike
Francesco of Assisi, patriots like Policy
and Pocrio ? '

Now Silvio Pellicle was no hero to Kate : she

smiled at the mention of his name. lie only-meant
to her a long dull Italian book which
she had struggled half through, until, to her
delight, she had been promoted to I Fromessl
Sjwsi. She had not lived with Pellicle in his
stifling cell vmder the jnombi at Venice, or
wearied with him through his long years in the
Austrian fortress, as Carlo had done in his childhood.


You care so much for your country,' she
remarked, * but after all, patriotism seems to mea
very narrow thing  we ought instead to love
the whole human race.'

He started to his feet with a gesture that
surprised her.

Believe me ! ' he exclaimed, * you are mistaken.
There is no true love of race till you
love your own land ; just as there is no "charity,"
in the wide sense of the word, till you have
genuine love for those of your own family. For
what else are we set in families and in nations ?
And how is it that we have any number of people
vaguely longing to work for " humanity " and
sentimentalising: about the " masses " in the

humanitarian cant of the day, and a mere handful
of men and women ready to make their own homes
the heaven on earth that a home might be ? It
is because we all want to begin at the wrong end,
to launch out on the great undertakings before
we have been faithful to the smaller duties.
Because we mistake the meaning of sacrifice, and
choose our own way even in that, and hunger
for the great, and the striking, and the picturesque,
but are slow to sacrifice ourselves for one
akin to us, or for a cause which is unattractive,
or for a unit instead of a vague multitude.'

There was a force and passion in Avhat he
said that appealed to Kate's honest nature. But
the words struck home, because she knew only
too well that, while ready to slave for her school-children
or for the poor, she was often cross and
tyrannical to her own brothers and sisters. She
thought Carlo must be alluding to her, but, as a
matter of fact, she was far from his thoughts ;
and what made him able to speak with so much
fire on an abstract subject was that he spoke of
the things which he knew, of the things which
he had proved by fierce and long conflict.

Aud yet,' said Kate, angry at Laving the
tables turned on lier, ' you, who speak so enthusiastically
about sacrifice, aud all the rest of it,
can be content to sing, and act, and amuse people,
while the poor are starving, and sinning, and
dying ! You can be content to fiddle like Nero
while Borne is burning ! Oh, it seems to me
unworthy of you ! You can't be content with
such a life ! '

He turned his clear, deep eyes full upon her.

With what I make of it  no,' he replied.
'With the life itself, with my calling  quite
content  quite ! See ! a year ago I talked
Socialism, and theorised, and longed to solve
the problems of the day, and thought that by
speaking and agitating the Utopian age would
be brought on. But I see now that it is quite
possible to theorise about the better arrangement
of the world, and all the time to be neglecting
perhaps jour own relations  to wish to reclaim
all the waste lands, and to misuse your own tiny
strip of garden.'

But here the conversation was abruptly ended,
for at that minute Miss Claremont and Lucy came

in armed with Dante and dictionaries, and Carlo
said no more, but opening his copy of the
Inferno, began, at Clare's request, to read to
them.

CHAPTER III.

lUTTER-SWEET.

Thou Who hast Thyself
Endured this fleshhood  knowing how, as a soaked
And sucking vesture, it can drag us down
And choke us in the melancholy Deep 
Sustain me, that with Thee I walk these waves
resisting ! Breathe me upward. Thou in me
Aspiring, "Who art the Way, the Truth, the Life !
That no truth henceforth seem indifferent.
No way to truth laborious, and no life 
Not even this life I live  intolerable ! '

Aurora Leigh

In twig grounds at Merlebank tlicro stood a pretty
little log - hut, fantastically built, and divided
within into two rooms. It had been the work
of one of Mr. Britten's summer holidays many
years ago, and had been specially built for the
children. At first they had played in it incessantly,
had learnt a fair amount of cookery with
the help of the little stove in the outer room, and
had found the place invaluable in all adventuring

games wherein desert islands figured. But now
they had rather outgrown this sort of thing, and
Mavis Hut,' as it was called, served only for
refreshments at garden-parties, for a convenient
place to keep the lawn-tennis box, and occasionally
for church decorations.

On the afternoon after the discussion with
Carlo, Kate happened to be arranging the church
vases in the inner room of Mavis Hut. She had
been round the garden gathering the wet flowers,
had taken all she wanted from the green-houses,
and now sat comfortably down to her work at
the rough, wooden table, with the brass vases
and the lovely red and white flowers all ready
to hand.

She felt still a little sore at the implied
rebuke in Carlo's words that morning, but she
was too good and well-meaning to blind herself
to the truth. He had given her, whether consciously
or unconsciously, a home-thrust ; and
Kate, though she disliked him in consequence,
fully admitted the justice of the remarks as
applied to herself. She sighed a little as she
arranged her vases, then, finding her own failings

no very pleasant study, she turned her thoughts
hack to Carlo himself. lie puzzled her more
and more, but though she would have liked to
think him conceited, or priggish, or hypocritical,
she could not do so ; the worst she could say of
him was that he was living a worthless life,
and that he was an inconsistent sort of man.
His absence of self-consciousness appealed to her
strongly, however, because it was incomprehensible
to her; and, though persuading herself that
she despised and disliked him, she know all the
time in her secret heart that this was largely
owing to her own perversity.

The sun had been shining brightly a few
minutes before, but as Kate arranged her flowers
she noticed that the summer-house grew dark,
and was not surprised to hear before long a
steady downpour of rain.

I daresay it will be over before I have
finished,' she thought to herself, and was going
on with her work when, to her surprise, the door
of the hut was opened, and Carlo walked into
the outer room, evidently seeking shelter from
the rain.

What a bother ! ' thought Kate. ' But, after
all, though I can see him through this crack in
the woodwork, he can't see me, I don't think I
shall let him know I am here ; he Avould interrupt
me, and perhaps talk again as he did this morning
 and, besides, I dislike him ! '

Hardly had she taken her resolution, when
once more the outer door opened, and Francesca
hurried in, wet and flushed.

You here ! ' she exclaimed, in a voice so
startled that Kate's attention was instantly arrested.


Carlo had been standing at one of the little
lattice windows, watching the torrents of rain.
She had not perceived him till she had closed the
door behind her. He turned instantly. There
was no time for thought. It was impossible that
any recollection of Captain Britton or Anita
should cloud that perfect moment. He was only
conscious of two things  that Francesca was
present, and that there was no longer the dreary
necessity of behaving as though their love was
non-existent.

Carina ! Carina nina !' he cried, crossing the

list at lightning: speed ; and the next mount
Francesca was clasped in Iiis arms.

All had passed so quickly' that there had been
no chance for poor Kate to make her presence
known, and she sat now in the inner room
petrified with astonishment. Ilcr first thought
was one of indignation, but when she saw that
Francesca chmg to her lover, sobbing pitifully,
her heart was touched ; and though she told herself
that she 'distinctly disapproved of this sort
of nonsense,' she began to sec that there must
be something in the past of her cousui and
Signer Donati of which she was unaware, 
probably an undeclared love-story, well known to
her father. AVhat so likely as that he should
have interested himself in the young Italian on
this account, and himself have hastened Francesca's
visit in the hope that the barrier between
them  whatever it might be  would be ro-moved
?

All this flashed through Kate's mind as she
watched the two who stood but a few paces from
her, and heard with unwilling ears the mingled
love and grief so little intended for any outsider'.

VOL. in. V

Yet what could sLc do ? To leave the summerhouse
she must pass through the room in which
they were talking  must not only put an end to
the interview, but embarrass them jast bearing.

Again, if she even moved a muscle, Carlo,
with his preternaturally sharp hearing, would
certainly notice it : she did not dare even to raise
her hands to stop) her ears, lest he should overhear
the movement ; and so in sore vexation she
remained an unwilling spectator of all that
passed. True, when they spoke low and fast in
Italian, she could not always follow them, but
very often they would suddenly relapse into
English, and then every syllable could be heard
through the thin wooden partition.

Tell me,' said Carlo, when, after a time, they
sat down on the rustic seat at the other end of
the hut, Francesca's head drawn close down on
his shoulder,  ' tell me, darling, this one thing.
Why did your father Avish you to leave home ?
Mr. Britton showed me your letter to him, and
you said '

"Well, I didn't mean to have told j'ou,' said
Francesca, breaking in (quickly ; 'but it was this,

Ciii'lino. Count Carossa  the man who took Villa
Bruno, you know  made father an offer of marriage
for me, and that, of course, had to bo
declined, though father was vexed, and really
wanted me to accept him. Then I had to speak,
for I was afraid wc should he constantly having
such troubles ; so I told him that though, of
course, I would always obey him, and would
consider my betrothal with you at an end, yet
there was an inner sense in which it could never
end for me, and I said all I dared to him about
the future, yet could not move him. He doesn't
see what a false position it puts me in  how hard
it is to go out into the world, and keep people at
a distance without being rude or prudish. Even
Enrico Ritter at first was angry with me, because
he thought I ought to have been able to freeze
away the stupid men who will crowd round one
at parties. Enrico is very good to me now,
though ; he is the one man worth speaking to in
Naples, because he tells me when he has heard
from you, and if you are well.'

He writes (o tell me when ho has seen you,'
said Carlo.

It is only such a pity continued Francesca,
that lie is not Italian instead of German ; then
perhaps he would be a better talker and tell me
more about you. He somehow gets in so little
and stumbles so, and it is just as if I were
starving and he were doling me out crumbs
instead of bits of bread.'

It is a shame to abuse the dear old fellow,'
said Carlo, smiling ; ' yet that is just what I have
felt all these months with his letters. Perhaps,
after weeks of waiting, I get one very long, very
clever, very philosophical, and then in the postscript
he will remark, " Miss Britton is all right ;
I saw her in the English church on Sunday."
Not another word ! If only Enrico could know
what it means to be in love ! And yet such crumbs
are better than nothing. And he is the best and
truest of friends.'

Yes ; there is something so staunch and
faithful about him. Oh ! he has been so good
to me, especially once at a ball when we overheard
some wretches talking about you, and
saying such horrid things of you.'

What sort of things ?'

'Oil, I can't tell you  liatefiil things about
your reasons for going on the stage. You see
people can't understand the real reason, and so I
suppose they try to invent one. I can't think,
Carlo mio, how you bear it so patiently; how you
could let Kate lecture you this morning about
your useless life, and never get even a little bit
angry. You wouldn't have done it a year ago.'

I am growing old, you see,' he answered,
smiling, ' and that was nothing  nothing at all.
I am a little sorry that I shock her, but you sec
it is inevitable.'

And your sister, what of her ? Arc you
happier about her ? Slave you learnt to understand
each other better?'

He sighed.

It is uphill Avork. Did you know that Co-merit
followed us to England ? '

Xo, Enrico never told me that ; I suppose he
thought I should not know anything about such a
bad character.'

lie came to London when we were there in
the winter. That lias been the hardest part of it
all ; for I was beginning to knock up then, and all

the time tlicrc was the horrible feeling that he
was hovering over me like a vulture, only waiting
for me to fall that he might pounce down.'

That was what made you struggle on through
that last opera,' said Francesca, wiping away her
tears ; * Harry told me all about it the other day.
But what happened ? Did he take your place ?'

Carlo signed an assent.

*He is there now.'

How hard it must have been for you to be
helpless ! AVhat torture to have to lie there ill
and think about it all ! '

Yes ; it was hard till one remembered that
of course it must be all right, and then it was a
great comfort to be able to try to get well. Besides,
I have a great hope that Nita's little boy
will prove a safeguard to her ; she begins really
to care for him. My one fear is that Comcrio
may manage to get romid [crlino and inrluec
him not to rcnoAV his contract with me in the
summer. I know he will move heaven and earth
to go to America with the troupe and to get me
turned off.'

'And Siunur Merlin ? What is he like?

Do you dislike Line so iiiucli ass when you first saw
him ? '

Do }'ou know T have really grown fond of
liii. He is tyrannical, and has a bad temper,
but I believe he honestly lives up to his lights.
Now and then one gets out of heart with the
whole concern, and then Merlino seems intolerable,
but that has never been more than a passing
mood with me.'

And you don't thiidc stage life so black as it
is painted by my father, for instance ? '

No, I do not,' said Carlo ; 'it is less morally
trying than I fancied, but more physically tiring.
however, I shall be well set up after this long
rest. I have written to propose going back at
the end of next week, or, if it fits in with their
arrangements, on the following Monday.'

So soon,' said Francesca, with a little sob.
(.)h, Carlino, I don't think you arc strong enough;
and it seems such a miserable, wandering life for
you.'

'AH life without you, carina, must be hard,'
ho said, stroking the eri.sp, brown hair from her
forehead tenderly ; ' mv only comfort is in

hoping and fighting for Nita's safety. You must
not think of the mere discomforts of the life 
they are nothing  less than nothing. Indeed, I
frankly tell you that never have I suffered so
terribly as in this idle time, with everything so
comfortable and luxurious all round. It seemed
impossible to be willing to live without you, to
endure this separation any longer. But, then, no
impossible order is ever given except by bad
generals  there is comfort in that. It is not impossible,
carina, and it must be done.'

But I  I only have to stay at home ; I can't
even watch you fighting,' sobbed Francesca.
That was always the fate of women. I have
the wretched, easy life, and can only wonder and
wonder what is happening to you. Oh, it is so
hard ! so hard ! '

Yes,' he said ; ' it is the hardest lot. Yet,
my own, you told me to go out ; and even if you
asked me, which I know you never would do, I
could not now turn back.'

Of course not,' she said, eagerly; 'you will
go on, and in the end right must win. Perhaps
they v.'ill no longer care for each other, or perhaps,

 indeed, T try not to wish it exactly 
Comcrio might die, or '

'Don't let us try to look on,' said Carlo, with
a shudder. * God helping nie, I'll he faithful to
death, but I can't manage more than a daj' at a
time. And sec, my own, the sun is shining
again and the rain over. It is hard to say it,
but I don't think we have any business to stay
lier longer. Your father might justly complain,
and we Avill not give him cause to do that.'

She clung to hin, while her tears rained down.
Kate could not sec her face, but the sunlight
fell full upon his, revealing thinly the terrible
struggle he was passing through. It was all she
could do to keep from sobbing when this man,
whom she had disliked, and half despised,  this
man, whoso life she had compared to the barren
fig-tree, began to speak.

See, carina'' he said, falling back to his
native language, and speaking with the direct
simplicity which is as rare as it is attractive ;
God is so just  so fair  don't you think lie
nest be nearest those who suffer Y AVe have to
be separate, darling, but yet there is compensation

for us both. Wc can surely trust Ilion with
our lives  yes, and delight in that ! '

]cut I can't help being afraid for you,' she
sobbed ; * you are so far away, and low can I tell
what may be happening when that bad man
hates you so, and wants to get rid of you ? '

Yet it is often when we fear most that we
learn not to fear,' he said. ' Oh, I remember so
well the first time that came to me ! I was about
Gigi's age ; it was at the time of one of the
earthquake panics, and I remember waking in an
awful fright and trembling at the darkness and
loneliness, then finding that there was One nearer
than my mother, and that the house might fall orbe
swallowed up, yet He would be with us.'

"What followed was inaudible to Kate, but
presently through her tears she saw that after a
long embrace they parted, that he held the door
open for Francesca, and let her pass out into the
sunshine alone, then shut himself in once more,
and began to pace to and fro in agitation which
alarmed her.

She saw how strong a restraint he must have
put on himself while Francesca was present, but

now the limits of endurance seemed to be passed ;
lie could but let bis wild grief drive him as it
would, Kate bold bcr brcalb for awe wbilc be
paced to and fro, pausing for a wbilc wiib a
groan, and resting bis bead on bis upraised bands
as they clutched for support at the rough, wooden
wall, then once more pacing tbc lit lie room faster
and yet faster, till with a stifled cry be threw
himself down on the ground, and broke into passionate
sobbing and tears.

Tbe waiting seemed terribly long to ber ; sbc
tried not to look at bim, and fixed ber eyes on
tbc red and white flowers in tbc altar-vases, but
still cab stifled sob fell on ber ear; and sbe, wbo
bad ever deenjcd herself a model of self-control,
found ber tears streaming down merely for sympathy.
Sbe bad never seen a man cry before ; indeed,
she bad cherished the idea, common to most
girls, that men never do cry. Tic sight frightened
her ; it moved lier strangely, and the relief
was indescribable when at last he grew calmer.

Presently, with intervals between, came broken
snatches of prayer, spoken always in Italian.

Mv God ! it must be that since Thus ba.-?t

shown mc Thj Mill Thou wilt give mc strength
to do it.'

* # # *

I know that Thou art stronger than these
fiends that tear mc'

*****

'If I could but feel Thee near all would be
light, but I am in darkness and torment  past

feeling  past thinking.'

* m * *

Yet the darkness is no darkness to Thee.
Suffer me not to be false and selfish  a coward 
a recreant ! '

Again, after a long pause, the stillness of the
hut Alas broken, but there was the dawning now
of hope and triumph in his tone.

My Lord, I thank Thee that Thou wert no
passionless angel here, but a man  a man tempted
as I am tempted. 13y Thy victory, by Thy faith,
by Thy perfect love, oh, Christ, save me now ! '

Kate waited in cramped, painful stillness,
half fearing, half hoping to hear more ; but
he did not say another word, and after a time
rose to his feet, and crossed the hut to look

at the weather. The sun M-as shining rightly :
he stood by the window for some minutes,
apparently in deep thought ; then, with a sigh,
glanced lingeringly round the little room, arranged
his manifold wraps in the Italian fashion
against which Kate had been wont to inveigh,
and left the summer-house.

When his footsteps had died away in the
distance Kate snatched up her vases and fled.
School hours were not yet ended, and it was
almost an unheard-of thing for her to go to
the schoolroom during the younger girls' lessons ;
but she felt that for this Clare would forgive
a breach of rules, and went boldly in with her
request.

Clare,* she said, breathlessly, ' will you spare
me ten minutes for something that will not
wait ? '

Miss Claremont looked up in surprise, but one
glance at Kate's face was enough for her ; she
rose directly, gave two or three brief directions
to Molly and Flo, and followed Kate to her bedroom.
As a girl, Kate had worshipped Miss Claremont
; but she was now just at the time when the

stage of worshipping one's elders and betters is
ended, and the stage of friendship with them has
hardly begun : there had been something not exactly
amounting to a coolness between them for the
last two years ; but Clare, though she was human
enough to be a little grieved, lead understood it
all perfectly, and knew that in time Kate woidd
need her again, and would fall back into the old
losing confidence, with the friendship of a
woman substituted for the extravagant worship
of a girl.

You are in trouble, dear ? ' she asked, sitting
down on the sofa, with that air of being perfectly
at leisure and not in the least hurried
which was peculiar to her.

Not without many tears Kate told her story.

And, oh, what can I do ? ' she sobbed. ' I
have been an eavesdropper against my will ; but
what ought I to do ? '

The whole story is such a complete surprise
to me,' said Clare slowly. * You must leave mo a
minute or two to think. Poor children ! poor
children ! It was natural enough ! I wonder
the thought never crossed my mind ; but somehow

I lead always fancied quite a different love-story
for Francesca, and I suppose that blinded me.'

I know what you are thinking of,' said
Kate. ' I, too, thought that she and Harry
cared for each other ; and I used to be so jealous
because he liked to be with her better than with
me. Don't j'ou remember that summer long ago,
when you first came to live here ? '

Yes, I remember well,' said Clare. ' I
suppose on his side it Alas a mere passing fancy,
and on hers genuine cousinly liking, for she is
exactly the same with him now. You understood
that she had actually been betrothed to
Carlo ? '

She said so, distinctly. I think it must have
been at the time he went on the stage, and that
must clearly have been to save his sister from
this Comerio. Oh, Clare ! the horrible part tome
is that I've misjudged him so cruelly ! I can
never forgive myself.'

I suspected from the first that it was in
order to be with his sister that he took to the
stage,' said Clare. 'But I little thought what
ho had had to give up.'

Oh, if sou could have seen him ! ' paid poor
Kate, crying anew at the recollection of the scene
she had witnessed. ' It was so terrible I can
never forget it  I can never be the same again !
I used to think it grand to be above that sort of
thing; but I never knew till now what love meant.'

Clare was not sorry that Kate's theories as to
the depravity of man were annihilated. She let
her talk on, putting in a sympathetic word now
and then.

I can't think how he can have helped hating
mc M'hen I lectured him on things I knew
nothing about, and told him he was like Nero,
and talked just as if my life were perfection and
his life quite useless.'

There is no pain so sharp as to find that we
have misjudged another,' said Clare ; * and have
blamed them when rather they should have been
honoured and revered. But a sharp lesson like
this stamps " Judge not " on one's heart as
nothing else can : it is a lesson we most of us
have had to learn, dear.'

You don't think we ought to tell them that
I was in the hut ? '

Xo ; that could only make you all three very
uncomfortable. 1 tliiuk you acted for the best ina
very difficult position, and Carlo and Francesca
may just as well keep all the comfort they can
from that one interview ; but I think it may be
well to let your father know that we know.'

There can be no doubt that he must have
learnt the story at Naples,' said Kate. ' I should
like him to know about this afternoon, it will
make me feel less of a hypocrite ; but I wish you
would tell him, Clare.'

I will, if you like, dear,' she answered.

And do come down quickly' to afternoon tea,
for I don't know how I shall meet them as if
nothing had happened,' said Ivatc.

'AVo will be quite punctual,' replied Clare.
rout I would not dread it too much ; such things
jiass off more easily than you would fancy possible
just now. Don't think of your own part
in the matter at all, just put yourself in their
place.'

Left to herself once more. Kale sat still
musing. The strange and almost unprecedented
inxi'i'ht she had jj-alned thai afternoon into tho

heart and life of another lull altered her whole
world. Through that revelation she saw everything
in a new light, and the change bewildered
her ; she wanted time to think, for all her preconceived
theories were overthrown ; and though
the actual sight of that struggle and victory had
taught her more than thousands of sermons, or
libraries of ' good books,' it had also sent her
away with a crushing sense of her own shortcomings.
Very honestly she sat and looked at
her life. Her greatest wish had alwaj-s been not
to work among the respectable and humdrum
poor, but to rescue the bad from lives of shame.
She was constantly hankering after this particular
Avork, and bitterly resented the assurance
that she was too young to handle such subjects.
Unluckily she-says very intimate with some of
those workers whose zeal outruns their discretion,
and who spoil their brave efforts by making
untimely allusions to them  by dragging them
into conversations at table or in the drawing-room,
till the hearers can only wonder what has
become of English reserve. A doctor discussing
horrible diseases and their cure in his family

would hv loudly and universally condemned ; but
those-whose work it is to wage war on vice seem
too often, in their eagerness, to think themselves
justified in talking ' shop ' in and out of season.
Kate had moreover acquired the terrible failing
which seems to be becoming more and more of n
danger among the really good and earnest  she
was so eager in wishing to fight the evil that she
began to take a sort of indignant delight in
tracing cil back to its source, particularly when
any well-known character was involved. She
took her excitement, not in reading the malicious
gossip of society papers, but in discussing the
latest scandal with the religious world. Yet
nothing can be more certain than that social
purity is never advanced by scandalmongering ;
albeit the scandal may have filtered through
district visitors and enthusiastic suppressors of
vice.

This afternoon, in the light of the new revelation,
Kate remembered with burning shame
how angry she had been when two or three
times she had tried to make inquiries as to the
state of morals in theatrical life, and Carlo had

courteously but firmly turned the conversation.
She had accused him in her own mind of
shuffling and evading the topic, had imagined
everything bad of him ; and now she found that
this very man who would not discuss the matter,
and who had none of the surface enthusiasm of
her friends, had quietly devoted his life to the
work of saving one woman.

"What is it that keeps him silent ? ' she
thought to herself. 'And what is it that makes
me love to talk? Is the silent work "golden?"
Is the talk unwholesome ? Yet " out of the
abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh,"
There can be no harm in it then. No, that
won't hold, though ! because our hearts ought
to be full of what we want to save them to, not
what Avc want to save them from. And yet we
can't very well talk of that side, or people would
think it was all cant. That is an odd thing about
Carlo Donati, he never seems afraid that people
may think he is talking cant ; I do believe he
goes right on without thinking what people think
of him at all. I fancy it is that he has no
conceit, and that I have a great deal ; he docs

things quietly, and I with a fuss and a flourish.
Who would have dreamt that with his quiet,
easy way of going on, and all the time ho was
singing, and reading, and talking to us, ho was
living through such a fierce struggle ! Oh,
what a goose,  Avhat a goose I have been ! How
hateful and contemptible to be afraid ho was in
love with me, when it was merely thinking of
Francesca that made him look like that ! And
I have been snubbing him, and looking down
on him, and talking such nonsense about him to
Francesca herself ! How they must despise me ! '
With relief she turned, as Clare had advised
her, from the thought of herself to the thought
of her cousin and of Carlo. Hitherto she had
considered Francesca to be very charming, very
innocent, ery reprehensibly idle ; one of those
girls who did not take up ' parish work,' and who
were deserving of mingled pity and Dame. Now
she asked herself honestly whether she coukl, in
Francesca's position, have given up all so bravely.
And madame Merlino, from all she had gathered
about her from various sources, was no * interesting
case,' but a very ordinary, commonplace, ill-tempered

person, who as yet apparently was far
from grateful for the sacrifice which had cost the
lovers so much.

For some charming, delightful person who
cared for me I might have done it,' thought
Kate ; ' but fur one of those women like Madame
Merlino, who just get into danger because they
are weak and foolish, who are dull, and uninteresting,
and heartless,  no, 1 could never have
done it ! Never ! '

Again she went back to her recollections of
that scene in the hut. What was it that had
given Carlo power to choose this hard, distasteful
life ? Why had he been able to leave Francesca,
and bear shame, and loss, and grief ? It was not
that his love fur her was less keen than the love
of other men ; on the contrary', the passionate
fervour of his love had terrified Kate, had transcended
all her dreams of what love in the best of
men might mean.

It must be because he was trying with all his
might, trying continuously, to live the Christ-life,
which most of us do spasmodically, and not with
the whole force of our nature ; because his faith

was perfect trust in One who was stronger than
the darkness, the danger, the misery which overwhelmed
liii ; < )no whom lie knew and loved ;
one whom he desired above all things to serve
With the free devotion of a man, not the grudging
submission of a slave. It was clearly a
faith which was independent of his feelings,
independent of his intellect, independent of his
surroundings ; he had owned himself past feeling
and past thinking ; he had been overwhelmed
with the temptations of that valley of the shadow
of death, yet all the time had held unshaken to
the one fact, which he knew as he knew his own
identity  ' Thou art with me ! '

The clock striking five recalled her to the
necessity)' of going downstairs, and of getting
through as best she might the dreaded meeting.

It serves me right,' she thought to herself
sadly. ' I have been conceited and patronising,
have looked on everything and spoken of everybody
as from a superior height, and now I learn
that I have been taking false, distorted views, and
have to begin life all over again.'

The luss of ]\vv old self-confidence was no

pleasant sensation, however salutary' it might be;
she entered the drawing-room apirehensivcly, and
hardly knew whether to feel relieved or disappointed
when she found Carlo bending over his
copy of Verdi's Ernani, and looking exactly as
usual. Perhaps she had not expected to see him
bearing a long face, or an expression of conventionally
pious resignation, but yet it astonished
her to find that after passing through so mucha
man could in two hours' time so comijktcly
have regained control over look, and voice, and
manner.

*I sh;dl quite miss this delightful English
institution of kettledrum,' he remarked, pushing
aside his book, and as usual coming forward to
help her. ' I'm afraid nothing would make it ,
though, with the hours we have to keep.'

A great lump rose in Kate's throat as she
remembered how foolish and disagreeable she had
been to him on the day when Francesca's letter
had arrived, and had made him so absent-minded.

And tea, I suppose, is not good before singing,'
she replied, putting forth the first platitude
that came into her head.

No,' he said, with a sniile which was
wholly pleasant, and had no suspicion of sarcasm.
'There are a few things which must be
renounced even by the Nero who fiddle while
Home is burning I '

The genuinely humorous look in the eyes
which but a little while ago she had seen full of
tears, touched Kate, she felt half choked, and her
usually ready words faltered.

I want to beg your pardon for saying that,'
she began, hesitatingly ; ' I don't really know
anything about stage life,  I  I  ' (the admission
was hard to make) 'have never even been
inside a theatre; only somehow one gets into the
way of picking up other people's notions and
echoing them without really finding out the
truth. I lead no right to say such a thing, I
hope you will forgive me.'

His warm-hearted, Italian reception of the
apology a little overwhelmed her, and she was
glad that the entrance of Clare and the girls
made the talk more general.

The English seem to have a rooted idea that
an actor must be a dangerous sort of fellow, and

they generally look askance at a foreigner,' said
Carlo, ' I don't think there are many !Merlebanks
ready to befriend fog - stricken singers, and I
assure you I have become well accustomed to
being regarded as a sort of dynamite, to be kept
at a safe distance.'

'The effect of Puritan traditions,' said Clare.
But there is certainly something in the argument
that now the stage is so greatly improved
the attitude towards it ought to be changed. I
am not sure, Carlo, that in the end you may not
convert me.'

It is not I who ought to convert you, but the
many'' English actors and actresses now living,
who b)'' their noble efforts to raise the drama,
and by their own pure and upright lives give
the lie to the old view which the Puritans
were no doubt quite warranted in holding. Or,
if you will not be converted by the living, at
least study the lives of the dead ; think of such
a man as Phelps, such a woman as your Mrs.
Siddons ! '

The talk was interrupted by an abrupt question
from Molly, 

What can have become of Francesca ? I
never knew her late for tea before.'

Kate felt herself colouring, but was relieved
when Carlo quietly turned off the rcnnark.

'Don't you think she may be finishing her
sketch in the church?' he said.

'Oh, yes,' said Molly, quite satisfied, 'and
perhaps she will stay on and hear them practise
the anthem for tomorrow. It is our yearly
festival tomorrow, you know. By-the-by,
Kate, have you done the vases h '

Yes,' said Kate, snatching up a biscuit,
and crossing the room to feed Bevis, that her
burning cheeks might not attract notice.

Francesca did not appear till dinner-time.
Kate glanced at her then apprehensively, and
saw that she had not been nearly so successful
as Carlo in getting rid of all traces of her
emotion. It must have been patent to any one
with eyes in his head that she had been crying ;
and Harry, with the inconvenient candour which
cousins and brothers often exhibit, connected
across the table on her appearance.

Whv, Francesca, you look dreadfully tired.

Has Kate been showing; you all trio harrowing
sights in lier district, or telling you of trio
horrors of trio Ashborougli slums?'

She blushed and faltered ; Kate longed helplessly
to come to her rescue, but before she
could think of a single thing to say. Carlo
had dashed recklessly into the conversation,
not at all troubling himself about his matter
ov his manner, but only desirous to turn the
subject somehow, and save Francesca from
embarrassment.

To slum ! ' he exclaimed, quickly, catching
at the last word ; * that is jour new English
verb, just invented, is it not? I was told in
London that slumming had become a fashion.
Is it so at Ashborougli, too ?'

Not quite so much ; the old houses in
Ashborough are notorious for being infested
with a particular kind of vermin, to. which
the fashionable halo a mortal antipathy. I
don't think it is likely to become very popular
here to slum.'

By this lime Kate had recovered her presence
of mitul, and bravely kept (he ball going,

Clare lu'lping- lion adroitly, and the lovers
feeling relieved that all bad been so well
tided over. Kate was conscious all through
the evening that Carlo was shielding Francesca
from observation, talking more than usual
to cover her silence, carrying Harry off to
sing when he was making his way to the
shady corner of the di-awing-room where she
had ensconced herself, and skilfully contriving
to lead the conversation round to cards by
volunteering to show them some Italian tricks,
from which they somehow glided naturally
into a rubber.

He is managing us all,' thought Kate
to herself, admitting that the sensation was
novel ; * but it is for Francesca's sake ; he does
not seem to think about himself. How will
he dispose of me, I wonder ? '

She was not left long in doubt, for at
that minute he turned to her.

'You have no class this evening?' he inquired.
' Then I wish you would play us
once more those Kindersccncn of Schumann's
which you played the other night.'

Yes, Kate, do play,' iiroccl Ilarrv ; ' T
always get on better at whist with music going.'

Whereupon, Carlo began to tell them a
story which he had once heard of a gambler's
wife, whose miserable lot it was every evening
to sit at the piano, where, in a mirror, she
coidd see the hands of her husband's dupes,
and reveal to him by her playing what cards
they held.

"While he talked ho had been finding her
music for her, then, with one swift glance towards
the quiet corner where Francesca sat
with her needlework, ho went back to the
card-table.

Kate could see him from where she sat,
and as she played on dreamily, musing over
that strange afternoon, and Watching Carlo's
untroubled face, she said to herself again and
again, 'I have been a fool! a fool! He is
the bravest man I e\cr met, and the best !'

Miss Claremont told all to Mr. Britton
that evening, and it was agreed that when
she could find a good opportunity she should
allow Carlo to see that she knew about his

lu'trotlial and its abrupt ending. A few words
sjiokcn by mr. Kavanagh, the doctor, after
his final visit to Carlo the next morning-made
her doubly desirous to talk the whole
mutter over with him, and she was not sorry
that the festival evening proved too cold and
damp for him to risk going to church, so that he
was left quite alone, and gladly accepted her
invitation to come and chat corafortabh' over
the schoolroom fire.

This sort of life is very spoiling,' ho
said, throwing himself back in an arm-chair
with the easy grace which characterised all his
movements, and glancing round the delightfully
snug, homelike room. * I can't think what it is
that you English people do to your houses ; there
is a charm about them one does not seem to
get elsewhere.'

I wish you could have seen a little more
of English home-life,' said Clare. ' If only
you had been strong enough there are several
people about here whom I should have liked
you to meet.'

'It is better not, perhaps,' he replied; *I

should only grow discontented with the life
I shall have to go back to, and feel the
contrast all the more between houses like this
and the dingy lodging-houses and third-rate
hotels which we have to frequent.'

It must be a wretched life, wandering
from place to place,' she said.

He sighed a little.

There are a few discomforts, but, after all,
they are but trifles. No ; what I shall feel
most is the going away from this home where
all is congenial; away from all of you who
can talk well on every subject under the sun ;
you who have so many interests, and who read
and think. Some people do not seem to feel
the atmosphere they live in, but to me it
makes all the difference ; it is stimulating to
live in a household like this, and to be with
a man like Mr. Britton ; and it is depressing
to live perpetually with people who take little
interest in anything outside their own profession,
and to hear nothing but gossip and
stage talk.'

'Then they are not very highly educated,

I .suppose, the iiieiiibcrs of Signor Meiliinj'is
Company ?'

'o, except as regards music. Of course,
you know, I am not a bit intellectual myself,
and am nothing of a reader ; but, all the
same, I breathe better in this sort of atmosphere,
perhaps merely because it is what I
was accustomed to at home. If it were not
for Sardoni, who is witty and clever, I don't
know how I should bear the monotony of it.
Sometimes I would give anything to be older
and cleverer ; many men would be able to alter
the atmosphere,  Enrico Hitter, for instance,
with his brains and his power as a talker,
might work a revolution in the green-room.'

Clare could have smiled at the notion of
Enrico's gaining more real influence by his ready
tongue than Carlo by his fascinating character
and unselfish life, but she would not for the
Avorld have said anything which, even for a
moment, could have broken the unconscious
simplicity that was one of his great charms.

'I suppose Signor Sardoni is your only friend?'
she said.

VOL. HI. 11

Oh ! he is a sort of brother to mo, but many
of them are my friends. That is one thing which
makes up for many other shortcomings in stage
life  the wonderful good-nature. I can't tell
you how good-natured most of them have been
to me, though I came among them as a novice,
and am by far the youngest in the Company.'

I had always heard that there is so much
jealousy in professional life.'

Well, that is true, too. There are jealousies
and quarrels, but then so there are in private
life ; and nowhere in private life, setting aside
Jilerlebank, have I met with such real, genuine
kindness as frown men like Sardoni, and Caffieri,
and Marionii,  indeed from almost all of them.'

*I)o you know I was talking this morning
to Mr. Kavanagh?' said Clare. *I am such an
old friend that I hope you will forgive me for
meddling.'

My best nurse has certainly the first right
to interview the doctor,' said Carlo, smiling. ' I
like Mr. Kavanagh, though he seems rather inclined
to think that everything must give way
to the suirenio duty of minding your own health.

lie icininds mc of Marionii, who is so wrapped
up in his profession that if the world were turned
topsy-turvy he would only wonder what the effect
would be on Italian opera.'

Isle. Kavanagh tells me he is a little afraid
you do not quite understand his English.'

'That is either a libel on his pronunciation or
on ray intellect. I understand him perfectly.'

He said,' continued Clare, * that he did not
think you could have grasped his meaning to-day
after ho had been sounding you, because you
seemed hardly to bestow a thought on the matter,
though ho told you that this continuous public
singing would either kill you or cure you. Did
you gather that from what he said?'

Yes, I did. He told me there was no disease
of the lungs, but a slight delicacy, and that using
my voice in this way would be a case of kill or
cure. Of course I hope for the cure, but if the
other thing comes wliy there is no more to be
said. A singer may as fitly die in harness as
any other man.'

But do you really mean to run so grave a
risk ? Life is surely a gift not to be treated

lightly ! Are you wise to try the sharp American
winter, the long journeys, the singing, which you
are told is a doubtful experiment ? '

It must seem stupid and headstrong to you,
I am afraid, and I can't altogether explain it ;
but if what you believed to be your duty called
you one way, and the care of your health called
you another, I think you would agree that health
must go to the wall.'

*I want to tell you,' began Clare, a little
nervously, ' that I have just learnt the true facts
of the case. Mr. Britton, as you know, knew
much and guessed the rest ; and I hope, Carlo,
you wil not be vexed that I, too, should know
about it. It was very blind of me never to
have seen how matters were with you and
Francesca.'

You really know about that ? ' he exclaimed,
with relief. 'Then we can talk quite plainly.
I am glad that you know, more glad than I can
tel you. I have longed to talk to you about it
all these weeks. And then, too, you will be such
a comfort to Francesca. You will take care of
her next week  when I am gone.'

His voice sluMik, and riarc felt tli' (onrn
Htartin; to her eyes for sympathy.

You told me that you promised your inotlicr
to Ix with Ma<Lmje ferh'no,' sho siiid ; ' but if
hie had known all that the promise would most
you do you think she would have wishing you to
keep it ? '

Perhaps not ; hut I don't see that one can
ft any sort of guidance out of that. It is not
Kvause I made the promise* that I must go on
with the life, but because I know it to 1k right 
knfw that I am called to do it.*

I hup|x)8e it worm not have been iH>8sible to
induce your sister to leave the stage?'

No. Her husband would never have consented
to it for our thing; and then, even if she
hid done so, there wuidd have Ikih nothing to
prevent Conierio from ending his engagement
with Merlino, and following Ixr wherever she
< hoo to settle down. Tin re was no way but this
there is no way.'

Such a ease is surely a heavy indictment
against theatrical life,' sjiid Clare.

I)o vote think s*> Y That seems to me lumllv

just. A scandal connected with the stage is in
everyone's mouth, but the sins of private people
are hushed up and kindly forgotten, though there
is not really more immorality among us than
among them. If an actress loses her reputation
you hear of it, because she has to live in the
fierce light " of public life, and so j'ou come to
think that we are worse than the other professions.
However, I feel with you, that Nita
would probably have been safer and happier had
she been brought up in a home like this, for
instance, and had married in private life. Such
a brave, noble woman as Domenica Borelli, or
any woman capable of taking care of herself,
may well become an actress if that is her true
vocation. If she is not able to take care of
herself, and is yet unable to retire from the
stage, why then her husband, or father, or
brother must do all he can to shield her.'

Clare was silent for some minutes ; it was
very hard to withstand the mingled humility
and self - reliance which seemed so strangely
blended in Carlo's character. He v.-as a man
who listened to advice and suggestion with the

patience and deference of a child, but when once
convinced of the right nothing couhl shake him ;
and she knew that it was his genuine goodness
which gave him this jxtwer, the fearless faith
which she had long ago noticed as the strong
jKjint in his nature, and which during all these
years had been strengthening and developing.
Young as he was, he seemed to her indeed well
lilted to be poor Nile's champion, even while in
lur heart she longed to persuade him to turn bank,
blinded by her love for him and for Francesca.

The thought of Mr. Kavanagh's words re-turin
to lur with so keen a \kiu< tluit to bo
silent was impossible.

'Yet surely,' she urged, 'there is a noble
nnstakc N\liit]i you may be falling into an exaggerated
self-sacrifice, a needless throwing away
of life and happiness !" After all, you know, the
connnand is to love our neighbours as ourselves.*

Do you quite think that?' he s;iid. 'I
thought it was n)W, " Love one another as I
have loved you." It ought not to bo as impossible
as it seems to live out that rule.*

lie sighed, Ix'cause he remembered that a few

weeks ago the struggle lead been to endure the
being laid aside, while now his heart sided with
Clare, and ho only longed to be able to think her
arguments right.

You must recollect how ill you have been,'
she continued. ' It is true you have recovered
wonderfully fast, but it was a very severe attack
of pleurisy ; it seems to me that you ought to
think verj' seriously indeed before venturing on
the Western winter. And even if your health
stands the life, it is so miserable for you ; I can't
bear to think that you should have to go on with
it year after year.'

As she spoke, a vision of his future life rose
before him. He thought of the monotonous
gossip of the green-room, the perpetual bustle
and confusion, the manifold packing and
unpacking, the desolate lodgings, the long
journeys ; he thought of the insults of Gomez,
the ill-temper of Merlino, the stinging words and
cold manner of Anita, the unwelcome love and
admiration of sentimental women, and, above all,
of the daily martyrdom of separation from Francesca.
His heart sank down like lead.

It is humiliating to be such a creature of
moods,' he said ; ' last night I had got to the
point of being content and even happy to have
been called out to battle, and here I am hankering
after love, and home, and peace again. Man
is a contradictory animal, Clare ! '

If you are sure  quite sure  that you are
choosing rightly, I will not say a word,' she
replied. ' But you and Francesca are very dear
to me, and I can't bear to think that you may be
throwing away your life on a hopeless task, and
bringing such a terrible grief to her. She is so
yoimg and fragile, so little fitted to bear great
sorrow.'

He tried to speak, but his voice failed him ;
he pushed back his chair and took several turns
up and down the room, then returned to the fireside
and stood with his elbows on the mantelpiece
and his head in his hands.

'You see, Carlo,' she resumed, 'I can't help
wishing Francesca to have the happiest life, and
though I would be the last to say that a single
woman may not be extremely li'ippy "d useful,
yet it does no good to blink the fact that her life

is incomplete. You will think it strange that a
very happy old maid of fifty should speak like
this, but Fanny Kemble's words are very true, 
Those who arc alone must learn to be lonely ;"
and we old people, who know how hard that is,
shrink from the thought of the yoimg ones
setting out on the rough road by Which we have
travelled.'

Clare, for God's sake say no more ! ' he exclaimed,
turning towards her a face so full of
anguish that she sorely regretted her words. ' I
must not turn back like a coward, even for love
of her ; but it is hard  so fearfully hard  when
the very saints of the earth tempt one ! And
that she should have to suffer  that seems so
unjust,  so intolerable ! '

She signed to him to sit down on the sofa
beside her, and looked with her quiet, shining
eyes into his troubled ones.

Francesca will not think that intolerable
; to share your pain will be her comfort.
And since jou are called to make this choice
which will bring shadow on both your lives,
why then I liavc nothing more to say. Once

sure of God's will we need not trouble about
the rest.'

'And if I chose my own will now, A'b}', I
should not be fit to make Francesca bapp}',' be
said, musingly, ' Sometimes, Clare, it seems tome
that the Donati are fated to give their lives
for a forlorn hope.'

Clare mused over the well-known story of the
two patriots. They bad been called to give up
bone, and love, and at last life itself, to save
their country from tyranny ; the third Donati
seemed to be called to give up bone, and love,
and possibly life also, to save one soul from sin.
It was a less picturesque lot, but wbo would dare
to say that it was lower ?

It is strange,' sbe said at length; 'but your
very name means, "A given man." '

'Does Carlo mean "man"? I never knew
that before.'

He fell into deep thought, and Clare noticed
that bis face gradually resumed its usual expression.


After all,' he said, presently, ' it docs seem
strange that we should eternally be slipping

back to a short-sighted selfishness. Betweenwhiles,
one can only wonder at the fuss one
makes over sorrow, and then conies a slight
change in weather, or health, or people, or
devils, and the struggle begins all over again. I
see there is some truth in Captain ]written's
accusation,  we Italians do love pleasure and
ease, and do cordially detest storm and strife.'

Dear boy, I think English people are much
the same!' said Clare, laughing. Then growing
grave again, 'But tell me. Carlo, is there
nothing I can do for you ? Since I can't see you
as happy as I should wish, let me at least have
some little way of helping you.'

He took her hand in his courtly Italian
fashion and kissed it.

It is thinking what )'ou have made of life,
Clare, that will help us most,' he said.

She coloured, and her eyes filled with tears.

To be able to talk to you and write to you
freely will be a comfort to Francesca, and do
you think, Clare, you would sometimes write tome?'


Of course I will,' she replied warmly.

Thank you, that will be something to look
forward to. You see it is rather dreary to have
no belongings in the world. Enrico Ritter is
my only correspondent ; for, though my old
Maestro writes every now and then, he confines
himself strictly to his one subject.'

At that moment they were interrupted by one
of the extraordinary coincidences which afford
subject - matter to the Society for Psychical
Research.

CHAPTER IV.

A mew PKorosAi

Choose well ; your choice is
Brief and yet endless.'

Goethe.

Two gentlemen to see you, sir,' announced the

servant, advancing with a visiting-card on the

salver.

Carlo having just given out that he had no
belongings in the world, Wondered who could
possibly have arrived at this time in the evening
to see him, and while the footman crossed the
schoolroom had had time to wonder whether
Mcrlino and Sardoni might, for some reason,
need him ; Whether it could be a plot of
Coraerio's, whether Uncle Guido had at last
relented and come to seek him out and makeup
their quarrel.

To his utter astonishment he read on the card
the name of ' Piale.'

'Now, of all extraordinary things, that the

dear old Maestro should come here just as I was
speaking of him ! ' he exclaimed. ' And the
other ? He sent in no card ? Is he young,
light-haired, German-looking ?'

No, sir,' replied the servant, ' middle-aged
and looked like an English gentleman. lie gave
no card, sir.'

Carlo's hope that possibly Enrico might have
come over with Piale faded away, and asking
Clare to excuse him he went down quickly to the
drawing-room, M-herc with one swift glance he
perceived a stranger, tall, thin, business-like,
evidently English, and dear old Piale himself,
with his thick bush of grizzled hair, his 
skin, and his eager, fiery ej'es.

The warmth of tie greeting between master
and pupil must have amused the stranger ; but
perhaps he was well used to demonstrative
foreigners, for the business-like air never forsook
him for an instant as he watched the face
and figure of the young Italian. By the time
he had thoroughly scrutinised him, had taken
in his various merits and defects, had glanced
at the clock on the mantelpiece and at the open

piano, the two friends remembered his presence,
and I'iale, with pride and emotion, said,
as he turned towards him, 

There, sir ! now let me introduce to you my
best pupil  not looking so much the worse for
his illness as I had feared ! '

I had the pleasure of hearing Signor Donati
several times in tol last winter,' said the
Englishman, pleasantly ; * and am glad to make
his acquaintance.'

And your voice, my son ? ' said Piale,
eagerly  * it has really not suffered, you think ? '

It seems all the better for the rest,' said
Carlo ; ' and I hoie to be at work again in a
week's time.'

Let me hear j'ou ! ' said Piale. ' Come !
what will you sing to me ? " // ba/cn ? "
"Largo al factotum ?" What have we here?
Carmen ! Are you studying that ? '

Yes ; we are to give it in America this
autumn.'

Let me hear what you make of the Tore-adore's
song!' said the Maestro, seating himself
at the piano.

But you are tired with your journey,' suggested
Carlo. ' You say you halo travelled
night and day. Let me come over tomorrow
to Ashborough and sing to you there.'

'Bah!' exclaimed Piale, with a snort of
contempt. ' Am I to find more refreshment in
eating or drinking or sleeping than in music,
my friend ? '

And with an expression of intense satisfaction
he thundered out the introduction to the
song, while Carlo obediently braced himself upto
sing, anxious as ever to please the autocratic
old man, but a little nervous about attempting
this particular song, which he had only' studied
by himself, and slightly troubled by solicitations
as to the English stranger and Piale's hurried
journey". Once before the Maestro had plotted
against him, and he could not help fancying
that the stranger had something to do with a
possible engagement.

All this faded, however, the instant he began
to sing. Piale's accompaniment was exhilarating.
For the first time he began to feel that he was
Escamillo, and his rendering of the song brought

VOL. ITT. I

a look of perfect serenity over the Maestro's face,
nd drew forth hearty exclamations of ' Bravo !
bravo ! ' from the business-like Englishman.

He had hardly returned to himself and ceased
to be the Tornado, when both visitors beset him,
Pialc with an impetuous gust of words, the
stranger with more eagerness of manner than
might have been expected of an Englishman.
He listened half bewildered to the proposal, only
taking in by degrees that the stranger was a
well-known London manager, that he was offering
him an immediate engagement, precisely
the engagement which would most advance his
professional career,  that the terms were higher
than anything he had ever dreamed of attaining
to, that they made his weekly pittance in Merlinoo's
Company seem more than ever scanty and
insufficient. As in a dream, he listened to the
praises heaped on him  to the assurances that he
would be the lion of the London season, that
already his appearance was eagerly awaited,
since, even in the unsuccessful winter performances,
and with health, and weather, and
surroundings against him, ho had made his

mark in the musical world. For a minute
lio was dazzled by the brilliant prospects held
out before lira. Fame, a rapid and striking-success,
wealth and ease, thoroughly competent
fellow-artistes, the London world at his feet, and
his future assured,  what wonder if such a
glowing possibility should for a minute attract
him ! And attract him it did. He longed for
it as a few hours before he could not have
believed it possible that he should have longed
for anything having no connection with Francesca.
It seemed to him impossible to turn from
this bright future to the dismal drudgery in the
provinces with Merlino, the poverty, and hardwork,
and scant sympathy. He was young, and
longed for happiness  an artist, and longed to
bring his art to its highest perfection under the
best conditions  a human being, and appreciation
was cheering, and lack of recognition depressing.


But, for all that, above the eager representations
of Piale and the London manager, and
above his own personal craving for this new life,
he could distinctly hear the inner voice, which

had never failed him, repeating again and
again, 

Remember Anita ! She has no one but you !
Be faithful!'

Long before he had ended the struggle, came
the necessity of making some sort of reply to the
offer, but no one ever passed through a temptation
and found all the time he desired for
preparation. Every inch of the ground had to
be contested, and even in his courteous thanks
there was an unusual amount of hesitation, which
the London manager put down to diffidence and
inexperience. Piale, however, knowing him better,
began to fear that it boded a refusal.

You are not strong enough for the drudgery
of a travelling Company,' he exclaimed. ' Everything
points to your accepting this offer.'

Carlo looked at him a trifle reproachfully, and
his manner became less diffident and his words
more to the point.

'The offer is indeed a very tempting one,'
he said; 'but I fear I must refuse it. You
see, sir, Mcrlino is my brother-in-law, and my
engagement with him  though it may be

ended next month, if either of us wishes it to
be ended '

The manager interrupted him.

But the mere fact that the Impresario is
your brother-in-law is surely in your favour.
He would be interested in your success  would
wish you to seize on this opportunity, which maybe
turned to very good account, I assure you.'

Carlo gave Piale a glance which said as
plainly as words, ' See what a difficulty you have
landed me in ! '

The Maestro responded to it by a suggestion
\A"hich relieved his conscience, and proved of some
use to Carlo.

Take a fear hours to think it all over,' he
suggested. * I will come and see you again about
it to-morrow.'

That is not a bad idea,' said the manager.
'But I must beg for a final answer tomorrow
morning, for Metasti has failed me suddenly, and
we are in great need of a baritone. If you refuse
but you'll not refuse, I hope. Signer Piale,
you must talk him over ! '

And after a little friendly banter, and a few

skilfully-framed compliments, the manager rose
to go, shaking hands cordially with Carlo.

And I shall hope soon to number you in my
Company ! ' were his parting words.

Don't on any account come to the door ! *
said Piale, excitedly, ' The damp night  your
throat!  for Heaven's sake, take care of your
throat ! And tomorrow I shall come over to
receive your definite acceptance  nothing less,
mind  a definite accejjtaucc  or, diavolo ! I shall
think you have gone clean demented ! '

For the greater part of that night Carlo
fought the terrible craving that had seized him
to accept the london offer. He was ashamed
to find how ardently he longed for all that the
manager had suggested ; while Piale' s assurance
that he was not strong enough for the hardwork
in Merlino's Company had in it a truth
which made it doubly dangerous. It was to bea
case of kill or cure  the doctor had told him
as much ; and though at first the idea had not
in the least shaken his purpose, yet now that he
was alone, with all around him dark and still,
he began to consider the two possibilities.

There was that glowing picture of life and
success which the London manager had painted.
In imagination he lived through the inspiriting
reception, the artistic triumph ; he thought of
Piale's delight ; he began even to fancy that,
to crown all, it would prove indeed that ' nothing
succeeds like success,' and that Captain Britton
would at last be won over, would join in the
general homage, and see that after all a son-in-law
on the operatic stage was not a man to be
despised. He was human and very young, and
for a while he revelled iu this thought.

Then, in sharp contrast, he saw another
picture.

He was back in Merlino's Company, toiling
through the familiar round of operas, overworked,
underpaid  doing, as Sardoni put it, the 'dirty
work ' of the troupe ; his voice gradually failing,
till he had sunk below the level even of Fasola,
and had to content himself with the minor parts ;
and so on through a weary, indefinite time ;
till at last, left behind by his companions
in some far-away American hotel or hospital,
he died alone among strangers, with no

one near him who could even understand his
native tong-uc.

To be killed by his work I "When looked at
in this fashion  when seen in detail  it was no
attractive prospect! At four-and-twenty no
healthy man can contemplate death without a
strong natural repugnance ; the mere * lust of
finishing' chains him to this world where his
work has but just begun. The old whose work
seems ended, or the young whose bodies are worn
out by disease, may naturally long to die : but
Carlo was not worn out either mentally or physically
; he was at the threshold of life ; and notwithstanding
all he had been through, life looked
beautiful and desirable, and death dark and im-attractive.
Whether right or Avrong, these were
his feelings, and he could not alter them in
order to fit in with the ideas of the religious
world.

And yet, without direct disobedience to his
orders, he must chouse the hard course and refuse
the easy one. Tossing miserably to and fro, he
wondered Avliether his whole life was to be like
this ; wondered whether every one had this hard

wrestling with temptation ; Wondered low it was
that most men seemed to drift along so comfortably.
Did they all the time wage an unseen
warfare like this ? Or was he naturally more
selfish and indolent ? Or had the devil a special
spite against him ?

Then, in the midst of his questionings, there
floated back to him the familiar words, * Men are
not more willing to live the life of the Crucified.'

Willing to live the life, indeed! Why, he had
forgotten all about it ! Had been thinking of a
life of ease, and glory, and pleasure ; had had his
own interests in view, not the interests of other
people ; had consulted his own will, not the will
of the All-father. Slowly the ruling power of
his life resumed its sway over him ; and then,
tired out with all he had gone through, he fell
asleep) for very exhaustion.

"When he Awoke the night was over, the
sun was shining, the thrushes and blackbirds
were singing, the rooks were cawing, and by the
light of the early morning he could see the
familiar picture of the Constant Shepherd. The
night of temptation was over, too, the darkness

lead passed, and what lie had to do was as clear
as day to him ; moreover, he knew that he could
do it.

lie must definitely decline the London offer,
lie must not, as he was half tempted to do,
mention it to Merlino, by way of inducing him to
renew his engagement at once or to raise his
salary. If he did this Merlino's suspicions might
be roused; his brother-in-law would certainly
wonder what, prompted him to refuse so good an
offer. Then, when Piale came over that day, he
must beg him to mention Comerio to the London
manager; he must move heaven and earth to
procure for his rival the offer which he had
declined. To say that he liked doing this would
be untrue. It was undeniably bitter to him, but
he saw that it would safely dispose of Comerio
during the summer ; and, moreover, he wished to
be just, even to his enemy, and since lie had
been the means of ending one engagement for
Comerio, it seemed but fair that he should do his
best to help him when opportunity offered.

lie found, however, that IMale hardly understood
this view of the case, and his interview with

the Maestro was stormy. In the end, however,
rale had to submit to the inevitable ; and with a
sigh and a shrug of the shoulders, owned that he
could not stand against the folly of a man who
had no eye to his own interests, and who deliberately
threw away the very ticket which would
have brought him a prize in the world's lottery.

He stayed to lunch at Mcrlcbank, and diverted
the Brittons very much by the mingled
fondness and ferocity with which he seemed to
regard his pupil. He tried to win them over to
sympathise with his disappointment ; and it
transpired that the instant he had heard of
Metasti's illness, he had hurried to London to see
if he could not obtain the engagement for his
pupil.

But, you see, he is bent on his own
destruction,' concluded the old man, with a
gesture of impatience. ' One might as well try
to argue with a mule ! However, my son, since
you are set on going to America, let me give
you one piece of advice  beware of damp beds ;
take my advice, and always sleep between the
blankets.'

Carlo made a gesture of horror.

Now, dear Maestro, you really expect me to
be too self-denying ! '

Self-denying, indeed ! why, yes, the life of
an opera-singer is one eternal practice of self-denial
! ' said Piale, gesticulating with his knife
and fork.

Carlo laughed lightly.

And I do my best to bo your very good
pupil, but at hotel blankets I draw the line I '

Francesca and Clare did all they could to talk
the old man into a good humour, and to console
him inter his disappointment ; and when Carlo
parted with him at the Ashborough station, he
was not at all sure that it was not emotion which
made his answers so curt and his voice so gruff.

You will not forget about Comerio ? ' he
pleaded, at the very last moment.

Piale replied only by a grunt. But there
was nothing but affection in his parting glance ;
and apparently he must have conciliated the
London manager, and spoken in high terms of
Comerio, for in three days' time Carlo received
the following letter from Sardoni : 

'Dear Latour

worthy Comerio has fallen on this
feet, and lias obtained the height of his ambition
an engagement for the London season. Lucky
is he who deserve nothing ! By what rule of
philosophy or religion do you explain such an
event ? However, it is an ill wind that bloAvs
nobody good. We shall be quit of him, and 
Heaven be praised !  this is the last week I shall
have to keep an eye on him by day and share
dressing-rooms with him by night. Your costumes
are already being taken in and uj) ;
Comerio growled not a little at the nuisance of
having them all refitted when he first came back.
He remains in Merlino's good books, and has
been fishing hard for America in the autumn ;
but when anything goes wrong it scores one to
you, for the Impresario always swears that it
would never have happened had jou been in the
Company. We go to Brighton on Whit-sundays,
and open the next day with Fans. It is supposed
that the Whitsuntide holidays may make the
thing a success : I have my doubts. However,
with you as Valentine it may be. Write and tell

me whether jou come back on flic Sunclaj' or
Monday, and I will meet you at the station.
Monday will be all right, if you don't want to
call a special rehearsal after the pleurisy' ; but as
I'm sure you could do Valentino in your sleep, I
don't see that we need be bothered with that. If
you are at the Vicarage, j-ou might mention that
we sail in September, and that I could spare a
few days in August if they would like it. Gigi
sends affectionate messages by the yard. He
talks of little else but your return.

Ever yours,

Sardoni.'

Once again Carlo and Francesca kept their
Whitsuntide together. It had fallen earlier than
on the previous j'ear, and it was no small comfort
to Carlo that his last day at Merlebank should
have chanced to be that quiet Sunday, when he
was able to walk through the sunny grounds to
church with Francesca, and later in the day to
have a long quiet talk with her as to the future.
Of Mr. Kavanagh's kill-obscure verdict he would
not allow her to hear a word; she was quite

anxious enough about him already, and Clare
agreed with him that there was no need to mention
it. But the doctor's verdict troubled kindhearted
Mr. Britton; and when on the Monday
morning the carriage was announced and all the
family met together in the hall to wish Carlo
good-bye, he watched with dee-p Sympathy the
silent handshake that passed between the lovers.
They both tried so bravely to keep up appearances,
that Mr. Britton was touched with compassion
and drew Francesca aside into his study.
If the work should indeed prove too much for
Carlo, Francesca would never see him again. He
would at least give them the comfort of a less
public farewell: the Captain might possibly be
vexed, but Mr. Britton was willing to risk something
for the niece who was almost as dear to
him as his own children.

Donati,' he said, 'just come in here one
minute, will you ? ' then, closing the door after
Carlo, he gave him a little push on the shoulder,
indicating that he should go across to Francesca.

Carlo did not speak, but he gave his host a
grateful look, and Mr. Britton kindly turned his

back on them and began to make ba' in the
papers on bis table, to unlock a drawer with a
most unusual rattling of his keys, and to behave
as a kind-hearted imcle should behave under the
circumstances. Presently, crossing the room, he
opened the French window, signed to Francesca
that she might beat a retreat into the garden and
avoid the assembled family, then pioneered Carlo
through the hall to the carriage, talking to him
as if they were just ending the discussion of some
business matter. There were manifold hand-shaking,
good wishes, regrets, and entreaties
from Flo that he would come again ; but at last
the ordeal was over. Carlo was shut into the
carriage with Mr. Britton and was driven rapidly
along the dustj road to Ashborough. lie was
quite silent, and sat gazing out at the green
hedgerows, seeing nothing, however, but the
inward vision of the woman he loved. Not till
they had reached the tol did he dare to trust
his voice, but a sudden perception that the time
left to him was short roused his native courtesy,
and he tried to thank his host for all the great
kindness shown to him during his illness.

My clear fellow,' said Mr. Britton, ' I can
only say it has been a great pleasure to have you.
I look on you as my prospective nephew, you
know, though for the present we must keep that
hope to ourselves.'

Carlo grasped his hand, those kindly words of
hope seemed to put new life into him, and all
through that dark day they rang in his ears.
Travelling to Brighton, among the hosts of holiday
excursionists, he could not help remembering the
di-ive back from Pompeii on that last Whit-monday.
It was less than a year ago, and yet
how endless the time seemed to him ! How
should he ever get through a whole lifetime when
eleven months had seemed so long and weary ?
But, fortunately, he had long ago discovered that
by trying to take in the idea of life as a whole Ave
only give ourselves mental indigestion, and that
a day at a time is as much as a man can hcalthih
swallow. He turned quite away from both past
and future, and taking out his copy of Ernaui,
began to study the part of Don Carlos with the
close attention and imaginative power which
made his impersonations so great a contrast
VOL. TIT. K

to twig average attainments of an operatic
singer.

Sardoni was waiting for him at the Brighton
station, and though the thought of returning to
the old life had been distasteful, yet somehow
he fell back into his old place very naturally, and
talked cheerfully enough as they drove through
the crowded streets to the Merlin' lodgings.

'Merlino has engaged a room for you,' explained
Sardoni ; * they are staying close to the
theatre, and I thought you would rather be-sith
them. Marionii and I are down by the sea.'

And Comerio has gone ? '

Thank Heaven, yes ! He came to see us off
at Victoria last night. That London engagement
came in the very nick of time. If it hadn't
been for that I believe he would have managed
to prevent your coming back. These are your
quarters, and look ! there is Gigi on the balcony.*

On catching sight of them the little fellow
beat a hasty retreat, and came rushing headlong
down the stairs, where, with a cry of joy, he flung
himself into Carlo's arms, and clung with all the
strength of a child's eager love round bis neck.

Mamma is upstairs,' panted Gigi. * Come
and see lier.'

Carlo, still carrying the little brown-faced
fellow in his arras, went up to the sitting-room,
looking anxiously towards the pretty, slim figure
standing in the bow-window. The brother and
sister had been long enough apart to see each
other with something of the freshness of observation
which comes to relations after they have
been separated for some time.

Nita thought she had never before noticed
what a beautiful face he had ; Carlo perceived, ashe
had never perceived before, the worn, unsatisfied
expression which was now so plainly visible
about her mouth and in her eyes. ' If I could
only comfort her,' he thought,  ' if I could only
get the least bit nearer to her ! ' But more than
ever he felt that she kept him wilfully at a
distance, and that her love for Comerio was an
impassable barrier which must make her cold
and distant to the man who had taken his place.

This was the hardest part of all, that he loved
her, and yet could not win her love ; that he had
lost all to help her, and that she would not be

liolpccl ; that lie tried ceaselessly to break down
the barrier between them, and that she as persistently
tried to build it np again.

There was nothing for him to do but to goon
patiently, never despairing ; but it was hardwork,
and his heart sank within him at the
prospect, even while he talked cheerfully to
Merlino and dined composedly', and answered
Gigi's questions about Merlebank. He lingered
behind the others to see the last of the little boy,
then made his wa' along the colonnade to the
stage door of the theatre. The door-keeper
looked up from his newspaper and gave him a
friendly greeting, for Merlino's Company had had
a very successful week at Brighton in November,
and Carlo invariably won the hearts of all the
officials by his pleasant manner and unwillingness
to give any trouble.

Hope you're better, sir,' said the man. ' I
have a letter for 3'ou here.'

He handed him an envelope ; Carlo thanked
him and passed on to his dressing-room, where,
not without a certain repugnance, he perceived
the crimson velvet costume, worn last ]\Iondav

by Comcrio, laid out for him. Then he looked
again at the handwriting of his letter, and, failing
to recognise it, began to wonder whether it would
prove to be an unwelcome love-letter or a forgotten
bill. It was late, however, and he dressed
before satisfying his curiosity ; then making his
way to the green-room, opened it and glanced at
the contents.

The letter was neither addressed nor signed,
but he had not lived through all these months of
public life without receiving sundry anonymous
communications, some of them kindly, some of
them grossly insulting.

This particular missive consisted solely of an
Italian proverb :  'Asj)efta tempo c luogo a far tun
vendetta, cJie hi iii si fa iiiai ben in fretta :'  
Wait time and place to act th' revenge, for it is
never well done in a hurry.

There was a vagueness about this which
puzzled him. Was it from some outsider Who
would warn him that his haste in getting rid
of Comerio had been impolitic ? Or was it from
Comerio himself, and did it imply that, although
he might not at once reonge himself, yet Carlo

was not to think that he had forgotten  that
vengeance would most certainly follow him ?

While he waited for his first entrance he
showed the note to Sardoni, who at once solved
the mystery by recognising Comerio's handwriting.


That is from our friend the Corsican,' he remarked
; * I should know his writing anywhere.'

Is Comerio a Corsican?, I ncA'er knew that.
Then such a message is doubly significant.'

Why ? ' asked Sardoni.

Because a Corsican never forgives. A Neapolitan
may kill his man in sudden passion, but a
Corsican Mill wait for years, and strike at last
with the cool premeditation of a devil.'

Sardoni looked grave, he could believe anything
of such a man as Comerio, and he resolved
to keep a sharp watch, and play the part of detective
in the interests of his friend. It was not a
vcrj cheerful missive to receive just before going
on the stage ; but though Carlo candidly owned
that the thought of a stealthy vengeance dogging
his steps scut an occasional cold chill through
his veins, yet he reminded himself that one can

grow accustomed to almost anything, and that,
after all, his enemy's vengeance was powerless to
shorten the life that had been marked out for
him by a single hour. And perhaps his own
private troubles helped him to give a yet more
powerful rendering of the duel scene and the
death of Valentino.

It frightens me to act with you,' was Nita's
comment ; ' you make it all too horribly real, you
die so dreadfully.'

Yet he is not so violent as Comerio,' remarked
old Bauer. ' He does not push you
away, for instance, but dies like a Christian,
kissing the cross and forgiving you.'

'The difference is,' said Marionii, 'that Co-merit
dies like an angry blusterer and Deathlike
a heart-broken hero. His voice seems better
than ever after the rest.'

The next morning Carlo felt a not unnatural
reaction after the strain of the previous daj ; the
long rest had, as Marionii remarked, strengthened
his voice, but he felt ludicrously stiff after his two
falls in the duel scene, and quite perceived that
though being out of practice might not affect his

acting at the time, yet it told severely on him
afterwards, and made the work, to which in
course of time he would become inured, a hard
and wearing toil. After breakfast he strolled
with Gigi through the Pavilion gardens ; then,
remembering that he had asked that letters
from Merlebank might be directed to him at
the General Post-office, he went to inquire if
any had arrived, not exactly expecting any, but
with a lover's restless hope for the improbable,
Isis heart beat quickly when an envelope in
Clare's writing was handed to him, but it only
enclosed a letter from Enrico Pit tor, which had
arrived just after he had left Merlebank. Now
that Francesca was in England, Enrico's letters
meant much less to him, and he sauntered down
Slily) Street, and yielded to Gigi's entreaties to goon
the beach before he began to read it. The
letter was unusually short and abrupt, and had
evidently been written in great haste.

Prepare your mind for bad news, amico mio,'
it began. ' Your uncle has died suddenly of an
apoplexy, and I have just learnt the conditions
of his will. lie has kept to his word, and has

disinherited you, leaving every penny he possesses
to the Little Sisters of the Poor. We are all, as
you may imagine, in a fine state of indignation,
and find It beyond human nature not to speak
evil of the dead. I must warn you, too, that you
have a living enemy, who is doing his best to rob
5'ou, not of money, but of your reputation. Some
person or persons unknown have set on foot a
scandal about you and Mile. Borelli, and it is
all over the place. Something of the sort was
suggested last autumn ; the first I heard of it was
a mere surmise, half jestingly made at a ball ;
]\Hss Britton also overheard the words, and for
her sake I made as light of them as possible, and,
indeed, they were, I believe, lightly meant. Now
it is possible, of course, that these words started
the current slander, but I think it very probable
that Comcrio ny have lead a hand in the affair,
and thought it best to tell j'ou plainly the truth
that you and Mile. Borelli are the talk of
Naples. You can now take whatever steps you
think fit, and, of course, can count on us to fight
your battles.'

Carlo looked up from this Ill-fated letter with

a dazzled, confused feeling that all the world
was against him. The calm, blue sea, and the
pleasure-boats, and the merry children playing
on the shore, contrasted painfully enough with
his troubled life. His uncle was dead, and had
never forgiven him ! The thought was a real
grief, for he had loved the autocratic old man,
and had hoped that some day all might be made
right between them. Then there was that vile,
that extraordinary slander. Burning wrath consumed
him as he pictured to himself Domenica
Borelli, of all women on earth, singled out to bethe
victim of Such hateful gossip. And what
could be done ? How could such a slander be
stamped out ? It might be met with authoritative
denial, but what would Neapolitan gossips
care for that ? Though very possibly Comerio
might have circulated the story, yet it could not
definitely be traced home to him ; no one had
heard him publicly make such a statement, and a
prosecution was out of the question, even if he
had been rich enough to afford it. No, he could
do nothing but endure as patiently as might be ;
but he realised only too painfully that slander.

however false, however actively contradicted,
docs in this world leave a slur, and that the
purest life and the highest motives are no protection
against those whose work consists of

Meddling ill the devil's hardware,
Gossip and inuendo.'

And, alas ! how little he had as jet gained.
How far from satisfied could he as yet feel about
Anita, For a mere hope he had lost everything ;
the love of poor old tTncle Guide, the inheritance
that was his by right, the home and country
which he loved, the wife who should have been
his, and now either deliberate malice, or mere
careless and baleful talk, had robbed him of the
last thing left to him,  his fair and stainless
reputation.

He was very young, and when the first hot
indignation had died away he could only wonder,
with a sort of blank astonishment, how that particular
charge could possibly have been brought
up against him. People might justly have
reproached him with his hasty temper, his impatience,
his love of ease and pleasure, with a
hundred other faults of which he was perfectly

conscious ; but to fasten upon him that particular
accusation, to charge him with the very sin from
which he was trying at all costs to save another,
that seemed to him hard measure, it wounded him
as nothing else covdd have wounded him.

Those who know life well, and have bought
their experience, and have gained that long-sighted
vision which belongs to the full-grown,
can, even in the first pain of a pcrsontil attack,
rejoice and be exceeding glad,' and realise that
the devil thinks their work orth molesting.
But the young have always a feeling that the
devil is not so black as he is painted, and that
the world is, after all, kindly disposed, and so
their first experience of injustice comes like a
crushing blow ; it amazes them, and they learn
with a shudder that the world will always
impute load motives, and that they must learn .
to expect this and bear it with composure.

The news in the letter which would have
most painfully affected many  the account of
the lost inheritance  was the last point which
occurred to Carlo. Still he did not regard money
with absolute indifference, or consider that there

was any particular merit in poverty, and it was
not in nature that a man of four-ancl-twcnty
should lose a fortune and feel no pang of regret.
Money was a power, there was no denying that,
and he was living now from hand to mouth  a
process less pleasant in practice than in theory'.
In the reaction from inordinate love of riches
there is now-a-days a good deal of cant about
'holy poverty' and 'contemptible wealth;' but
Carlo, being a very practical and simple-natured
man, did not affect to look on the loss of his
inheritance from any superior height of other-worldliness.
It chafed him sorely to owe money
to Herr Ritter and to see no immediate prospect
of paying back the principal ; it had cost him
much to ask his doctor whether he would allow
him to pay by instalments for the constant
attendance through the weeks at Merlcbank ;
it had pained him to have to calculate the cost
of his journey to Brighton, and to find that his
donations to the servants who had been so good
to him must be of the smallest. For money in
itself he cared not at all, but being in the true
sense of the word a gentleman, he had a horror

of being in debt, and found the constant care
necessary to make both ends of his scanty income
meet a most irksome duty. Such matters cannot
be looked at in a vague, impersonal way; and
though the ideal hero of sentimental romance is
always above such contemptible considerations,
yet a straightforward, honourable man is bound
to care for the possession of such money as will
enable him to pay his wa' honestly in the world.
Carlo thought with a sigh of the thousands of
pounds which he had been led to expect as hi.'i
inheritance, and then of the constant struggle
to live on his small salary. Comcrio had received
six guineas a-week, but he as a novice had consented
to take only half that amount, and Piale,
thinking that he would never continue in a
travelling company after the first year, had
been fairly well satisfied with the arrangement,
and, indeed, would have consented to anything
so long as his wish of inducing his pupil to goon
the stage had been gratified. Carlo had no
intention, however, of accepting better offers at
the end of the first year, so he saw before him
an indefinite time of hard work and small pay,

for he could not afford to bargain with Merlino
or quarrel with him, as any other novice might
have done.

As Carlyle remarks, ' 'No beautify lest poet is
a bird of paradise, living on perfumes, sleeping
in the aether with outstretched wings. The
heroic, independent of bed and board, is found in
Drury Lane Theatre only.'

Out of his three guineas a-week he must
somehow manage to pay for board, lodging, and
clothes, must give the conventional gratuities to
his dresser, must provide certain parts of his
stage wardrobe  to wit, shoes, tights, wigs, and
feathers,  must pay the interest on the loan
from Herr Eitter, and try to put by as much
as might be towards Mr. Kavanagh's account.
He knew, of course, that many a clerk, many
an English curate, had to count himself lucky
if he got as large a salary, but then it was less
possible for him to economise. Lodgings, hastily
sought in a foreign country, often proved dear
as well as comfortless ; bills, even at third-rate
hotels, seemed to mount up with frightful
rapidity ; while to play any pranks with his

(Hot was Old of Ie question, since this voice
was dependent on regular and suitable food,
lie longed impatiently to be free from this
grinding poverty which was so foreign to his
nature, nor did it comfort him much to reflect
that he was better off than many members of
travelling companies, since, at any rate, Merlino
always paid his way, was a man With capital,
and was not for ever trembling on the brink of
bankruptcy. It only made him feel very sorry
for his brother artistes, and slightly curious to
know how they managed to live at all.

lie had reached this point in his reflections
when Gigi came running up to him.

I do so dreadfully want a spade and pail,
zio caro !' he said, looking up at him with his
wistful brown eyes.

There are many things, jwy Gigi, which we
do so dreadfully want, but can't have,' he replied,
laughing a little, and stroking the child's brown
cheek. * You and I, Gigi, must learn to go without,
and must do what we can to amuse each
other.'

And forgetting poverty, and slander, and even

poor old Uncle Giiido, lie transformed himself
into so delightful u sea-monster that Gig-i rushed
in blissful terror and excitement to the shelter
of the nearest boat, and by the time the chase
was over, and he had been devoured and resuscitated
in the conventional manner, all thought
of spades and pails had vanished from his mind,
and he had fallen back to his old refrain of
I do love you so ! '

Vol. iii

CHAP TEE V.

AFTER TWO YEARS.

Heart, thou must learn to do without 
That is the riches of the poor ;
Their liberty is to endure ;
AVrap thou thy old cloak thee about,
And carol loud, and carol stout !

*****
Why should'st thou only wear no clout ?
Thou only vfaXk. in love-robes pure ?
Thy step alone be firm and sure ?
Thou only free of fortune's flout ? 
Nay, nay ! but learn to go without,
And so be humbly, richly poor.'

A Threefold Cord.

The bright sharing sunshine was streaming into

a sitting-room in the Lafayette at Philadelphia,

and Nita's sweet, clear soprano woke the echoes

with that most charming of songs, ' Caro nome.'

Carlo, who from the first had constituted himself

her accompanyist at her daily practice, was seated

at the piano, and something in the faces of both

brother and sister showed plainly that time had

passed. Two years had gone by since Carlo had

rejoined the Company at Brighton, and spite of
excessively hard work  spite of the weary day
and night journeys, with too often an exhausting
performance at the end of them  his healthy,
vigorous nature had asserted itself, and all signs
of delicacy of chest had disappeared, while further
cultivation, and increasing physical strength, had
rendered his voice more than ever notable. The
daily round of work had been monotonous enough,
and yet the second and third years of his professional
life had certainly seemed far shorter to
him than the first had done. But then nothing-flies
so fast as fully occupied time, especially
when no very important events come to interrupt
the routine. And nothing had happened
worthy of note in these two years. Comerio's
vengeance had not as yet taken effect  he had
not followed them to America ; and scarcely ans'
changes had been made in the Company, Mademoiselle
de Caisne had, indeed, gone back to
Italy, finding it impossible to make the slightest
impression on the new baritone : her place had
been filled by a very young American girl. It
seemed probable, too, that Sardoni and Domenica

BorcUi would not remain very much longer in
the troupe. They had now been betrothed for
several months, and were to be married in
New York before Merlino's Company sailed for
Italy, which they expected to do towards the
end of May. Carlo hardly knew how to face
the thought of life without his two best friends,
but their contracts with Merlino both expired in
the following autumn, and he could not but admit
that their married life would probably be much
happier if they carried out Sardoni's idea, and
settled down in London, where they might both
hope to gain a fair livelihood by teaching, eked
out by occasional engagements. But, though
little had happened, the general tone of the
Company had certainly been raised ; the Impresario
had become a trifle less rough and
overbearing ; Nita, though she was still as far
as ever from being a happy wife, seemed to
rebel less bitterly against her lot ; while Carlo's
character had grown and developed as a man's
character does developed when he is trying incessantly
to live the highest life.

As he played the accompaniment of ' Caro

ime,' this thoughts involuntarily' turned to Francesca,
and he began to wonder whether Sardoni
would soon come back from his walk, and
whether he Avould have remembered to call at
the post-office for letters. It was possible that
he might to-day hear from Enrico, and he
was terribly hungry for news, for Clare, with,
the best of intentions, was too busy to
write very often, and when she did write
could only give him second-hand reports, while
Enrico was as far as ever from understanding
the sort of details for which a lover
craves.

He looked up eagerly as the door opened and
Sardoni entered.

Did you remember the letters ? ' he asked,
glad that the song should have ended at such an
opportune moment.

For a wonder, yes,' replied Sardoni, who
since his engagement to Domenica had been
ludicrously absent-minded. ' But there were none
for you, Val, only one for Madame Merlino.'

Carlo was sadly disappointed, but yet was so
well used to disappointment that by the time he

had played through a few bars of ' Caro nemo '
his face had resumed its usual expression.

Sardoni left the room again, and Nita, throwing
herself back in a rocking-chair, began to read
her letter. As she read, an uncontrollable exclamation
of surprise escaped her. Carlo, who
was turning over the pages of Rifjolefto and still
whistling the air of ' Caro nemo,' looked up
quickly'.

Is anything the matter ?' he asked, and as ho
spoke he noticed for the first time the big letters
of the * Napoli ' post-mark.

She read on without answering, but something
in her face roused a nameless fear in his
heart ; did the letter concern Comerio ? The
hand-writing was not Enrico's or his fears would
have been instantly aroused ; he would have
imagined that some evil must have befallen
Francesca  some evil which his friend did not
dare to tell him abruptly and without preparation.
But that fear was not awakened. It must,
then, surely'' be connected with Comerio, this
Italian letter ! If only she would speak and
put him out of his suspense !

He sat down near lier and waited, not wishing
to force himself upon her in any way; and at
length she looked up and, with a strange tone in
her voice, said, 

I have heard from Mile, de Caisno, Carlo.
You had better read her letter, and she encloses
these.'

In some surprise he took the papers she
handed to him, and glanced at the first. It was
a half-sheet of paper, on the back of which the
following words were written in Italian, 'An
advertisement cut out of the Times'' Neatly
pasted on the other side were a few brief lines of
English print, 

On the 26th inst., at Naples, by the British
Consul and by the Eev. J. Smith, Rexato,
Conte Carossa, to Francesca, elder daughter
of Captain John Bretton, Pt.N.'

Carlo neither spoke nor moved ; the blow
struck at his heart had been so fearfully sudden
that after the first moment of agony he felt
nothing, but was like one paralysed. Still
lioldiiig the advertisement in his hand, he stared
at those words which had shattered his whole

life ; then, as sensation slowly returned, a horrible
craving to know more seized him, and he
snatched \ip the next paper. It was a leaflet
printed in silver, an English wedding-hymn,
beginning, ' The voice that breathed o'er Eden ; '
he read it through from beginning to end with
a sort of blank, dazed feeling. Then he took
the next slip. It was a cutting from the Boma,
just a short paragraph stating that the marriage
of Count Carossa had called forth general attention,
owing to the fact that his bride was the
acknowledged hebe of Naples. That the beautiful
English girl had made a charming bride, and
that according to the English custom the 
had been entertained at breakfast
after the ceremony at Casa Bella, the residence
of Captain Britton.

Lastly', he read with feverish haste Mile, de
Caisne's letter, rushing impatiently through the
preliminaries till he came to the following remarks,


The marriage of Count Carossa is the great
topic of the day here, and knowing how intimate
you and your brother were with the English

owners of Casa Bella, I send you full particulars.
The wedding' was really a beautiful
sight, the bride wore a dress of ivory-white satin
with a very long train ; and it really is wonderful
how even in this climate English girls seem to
preserve their complexion. Miss Britten's is the
most charmingly delicate colouring I ever saw.
Every one is envious of Count Carossa. I only
hope he deserves so fascinating a wife.'

Carlo folded the papers and put them back in
their envelope. Every vestige of colour had left
his face, and Nita began to wonder whether he
would ever move or speak again he looked
as if he had been turned to stone. She was
frightened, and yet the sight did not appeal to
her, it even made her a little angry and impatient,
for she had not heart enough to understand
him.

There was a long, burdened silence, broken at
length by Nita.

Well,' she said, with a bitter tone in her
voice ; * now, at any rate, you will know what it
means to have a legal bar between you and the
one you love.'

At that this stony despair suddenly changed,
the frozen hood seemed to boil in his veins, and
a look of anguish, which terrified her, dawned in
his ejes. Her words had most cruelly, most
recklessly, thrust the terrible truth before him.
He got up quickly, and walked with unsteady
steps to the door, by a sort of blind instinct
perceiving that to be away from his sister woidd
be a relief.

But Nita had no sooner spoken than she regretted
her words, and would have given anything
to recall them. She rushed after him and
caught his hand in hers.

Don't go, Carlo ! ' she cried. ' I am sorry I
said that  I am sorrj for you. Carlino I Stay ! '
Her presence was almost more than he coidd
endure, but though past thinking definitely of
anything but the crushing blow he had received
and the torturing pain it caused him, the mere
habit of considering others before himself made
him pause now, though he longed sorely to be
alone with his trouble,

Ah, why should we have such things to
bear?' she cried passionately, thinking even

now fai" more of her own trouble than of
his.

God help us both ! ' he groaned.

Then, dropping her hand, he turned away
and flung himself face downwards on the couch,
unable to resist any longer the paroxysm of
grief which overwhelmed him.

Nita watched him much as Kate Britton had
watched him in the hut ; her woman's soul was
touched to the quick, and though only a minute
before she had cried, ' Why should wo have such
things to bear ? ' she saw now, with a sharp pang
of regret, that Carlo's grief was the direct consequence
of her own weakness, she fell down on
her knees beside him.

'Carlino!' she sobbed, 'forgive me  forgive
me ! It is I who have brought it all on you.'

He did not look up or speak, but put out his
hand for hers and held it fast in a grasp that
seemed to burn her. She thought he grew calmer
and ventured to speak again, longing to awaken
his pity for her own case.

Don't you see now, Carlo, that you have been
expecting too much of me ? ' she pleaded. ' Oh,

don't you see now how all those high ideas of
yours are in practice impossible ? '

Her last word, emphatically spoken, seemed
to fill him with strength. In an instant he was
on his feet, while she still knelt on, looking up
at him in awe and astonishment. Somehow it
seemed to her that she was face to face with the
perfection of manhood.

Nothing is impossible ! ' he said.

And the words seemed to ring and pulsate in
her ears as no words had ever done before.

She cowered down and hid her face, trembling
before the first divine revelation Which had ever
come home to her innermost heart. It was a
relief to her Avhcn she heard him leave the room,
but the pitifulness of the story overcame her
again ; the love, so far beyond any love of which
she herself was yet capable, had at length
touched her heart, and she sobbed for grief and

Why,  oh why,' she thought, with bitter
regret, 'did I not from the first resist the evil
thoughts that came ? It midst have been possible
for me, too ! '

In the meantime Carlo had locked himself
into his own room, and there, pacing to and
fro, looked his sorrow in the face like a man.
Thousands, as he was well aware, must have been
called to bear the same thing before, but yet
there were circumstances which made his case
doubly hard ; the utter want of preparation, the
dearth of all but the most public accounts of the
marriage, the knowledge that of his own freewill
he had left Francesca and gone out into the
world. For eight long years he had loved her,
and though there had been grief, and trouble,
and separation for them, yet he had been sure
of her love through all, and had been free to
lavish on her his heart's devotion. But now in
one moment all was ended between them, and
the thought of his love, which, in spite of the
separation, had been an unfailing solace to him
through these weary years of public life, was
now only a torture, a peril. There would be no
beautiful reality, all his own, to which he could
come back when the day's work was over, as to
some sacred and safe retreat ; she was now the
wife of another, and he must no longer think

of her as hiss betrothed. His safe retreat had
become a place of torment. He saw that life
would be one long battle, and that the best he
could hope for after long conflict, was so far to
subdue himself that he should dare to meet her
as a friend ; be able, perhaps, to serve her in
some faint, far-off way ; be at least able to carry
a brave front, and cast no shadow on her wedded
happiness.

But was she happy 'i Had she, perhaps, been
forced to acquiesce, in obedience to her father's
wishes ? Count Carossa might well prove an importunate
suitor, and decline to accept as final her
first refusal. Had she been forced against her
will to accept him ? Or had he really won her
heart ; and did she now see that the past was
but a girlish dream, evanescent, and not wholly
sweet? He hardly knew which of these possibilities
pained him most ; he glanced now at one,
now at the other, till the misery of ignorance
and suspense almost maddened him. And then,
with a pang of the worst pain he had yet felt, a
horrible new idea shot through his mind.

There was that vile slander which had been

set on foot two year's ago, and which still inevitably
worked its poisonous way, growing more
dangerous with age, as slanders do. Francesca
had heard the first rumours, Enrico had told
him as much, she herself at Merlebank had half
hinted something of the sort. At first she had
indignantly refused to credit them, but when the
tale was in every one's mouth, why then her
very innocence and ignorance of the world
would surely make her credit them the more
easily ; and how ready the Captain would be to
believe anything of the sort touching an operatic
singer, he realised only too bitterly. More and
more as he thought of it this seemed to him the
only explanation of the marriage. He could not
believe that anything else could possibly have
robbed him of Francesca's love. But if all
around her believed him to be not only guilty
of such a sin, but to be such a contemptible
hypocrite as to have sought his own pleasure
under the cover of protecting his sister, might
she not possibly have been induced to believe
the slander too? And, once believed, such a
story must inevitably kill love. For a while he

sat rapt iu the miserable contemplation of this
thought, then suddenly his mind revolted from
the idea of any kind of distrust in Francesca.
No, it was not possible ! She would believe in him
against the whole world, would love him for ever,
not for any merit in himself, but because of the
truth, and purity, and beauty of her own nature.
She had been coerced into the marriage with
Count Carossa. Again he fell back into the
weary round of surmises, rejecting each in turn,
but always confronted by the terrible realisation
that, however the marriage had been brought
about, it was a fact,  a fact which gave the
death-blow to his hope, and doomed him to go
through life alone.

For he must go on living, and must face the
thought at once. Indeed, into his simple, healthy
mind no thought of death had entered, though
most truly life looked to him desolate enough ; but
it is in times of great trouble that a good man's
real character is tested, and every dull, monotonous
day of work in Merlino's Company had added
something to his manly steadfastness, and gave him
power now to go straight on and do his duty without

flinching. He brought back his thoughts
ith an effort to the present,  liigoJvfto that evening,
the necessities dining at once, the fear
lest his trouble should at all mar the happiness
of Sardoni and Domenica, his best friends, and a
resolution to keep the news from them if possible
till their wedding was over. "With this thought
in his mind he turned to the glass, saw that
trouble was very legibly stamped on his face,
and resolved to dine alone at some restaurant,
that he might escape observation. On the staircase
he met Anita, she looked up at him in a
scared way.

'Do not speak of this to anyone else,' ho
said, in a low voice ; ' above all, not to Sardoni
or Domenica. Let it be only' between us two,
at any rate till after the Wedding.'

She promised, although she was far from
understanding the motives which prompted the
request, and Carlo with a heavy heart passed
on, and Avalked slowly down Broad Street. He
remembered, as lie walked, the sense of horrible
loneliness which had seized him when he Avalked
back from the Strada Nova to Palazzo Forti,

VOL. III. M

after the Pilgrim had sailed from Naples ; but
that suffering had been light indeed compared to
what he was called to bear to-day. It seemed to
him now that he was alive and yet dead, that
the outer shell of everyday existence would goon
in a mechanical way, just as if nothing had
happened, but that the heart had been destroyed,
and that nothing could ever bring it back to
vitality.

In a sort of dream of pain he watched the
passers-by, and wondered whether in their careless
talk they, too, might be robbing someone of
his reputation, and doing the devil's work in the
world. A feeling of strong resentment rose up in
his mind, he walked more quickly', the colour
came back to his face, and his lot, southern
blood began to burn and tingle in his veins ; if
he coidd have been suddenly confronted by the
unknown being who had set on foot this slander
he coidd have killed him, at least so in his hot
indignation he fancied.

Once more Nita's bitter words rang in his
ears ;  ' A legal bar between you and the one you
love.'

After all,' urged the tempter, ' are you not
aiming at the impossible ? Why should you
think of her as his wife when the thought tortures
you ? What ! you mean to allow no
thought that you could not lay bare to her
sight, or the sight of her husband ? Fool !
Give up ! Is such love as jours to be cramped,
and fettered, and starved ; love that has lasted all
these years ? '

'You'll forgive mo making bold to stop you,
sir,' said a familiar voice. He looked round and
saw Adamson, the scene-shifter. *I wanted to
catch you alone, sir, and at the theatre there be
always others within hearing; and I guessed
you'd be glad to hear, sir, that it's all come
right.'

The sudden reaction from the terrible temptation
to the story of the honest-looking old man,
who had been one of his first friends in the
troupe, taxed his powers to the utmost. His
brain seemed to reel, but with an effort he
dragged himself back to the recollection of
Adamson's trouble. His daughter, a pretty
American girl, sang soprano in the chorus, and

for some time lier falling lind been very unoasv
about lier, and Carlo had watched with a good
deal of interest the progress of a small drama
in which his dresser, Sebastianoo, played the part
of lover.

It's all come right, sir,' repeated Adamson ;
and it's all owing to j'ou. I don't now what
you've done to Sebastianoo, sir, but he's hind o'
altered. They're ngoiiiu- to git married right
away ! '

The need of giving the old man his hearty
sympathy restored Carlo to himself. lie went
into a restaurant and ate his dinner soberly, butin
his dark sky there were two gleams of light :
the first was the recollection that Nita's heart
had been at length reached ; the second, that his
hopes for Sebastianoo had been fulfilled. There
came to him, too, the perception that there was
still one way in which he might safely serve
Francesca. He could pray that her marriage
might be a happy one. There was at least that
still to be hoped for.

He went back to the Lafayette, found a
letter which he had written earlier in the

day to Eurico, and added the following brief
postscript : 

AYliy did yon tell mo nothing of Count
Carossa's marriage ? Send me all particulars, if
you can, to xew York.'

More than that he could not bring himself
to put even to his friend, but to Clare he wrote a
long letter and poured out all his trouble, for she
was a NNoman, and he knew she would understand.
Then, relieved a little by this, he took
the letters himself to the post, and made his way
to the theatre. In Locust Street, close to the
stage-door, he met Sardoni, Who was much too
full of his own affairs to be very observant.

The day is fixed at last,' he said, cheerfully ;
'it is to be at New York next Sunday week.
Will you be my best man, old fellow ? '

Of course I will. Jack, if j'ou wish it,' said
Carlo. ' Does your father come out for the
wedding ? '

Xo ; but he has asked us to stay with him
in the autumn, and your letter has evidently
done a good deal towards reconciling him to the
notion. We owe everything to you, Val.'

Carlo turned into his dressing-room, only to
be confronted by Sebastianoo. He had heard too
much of marriages that day, but yet must congratulate
his dresser, and, as he put on his
jester's costume of red and yellow motley, must
listen to the stores old Adamson had told him, allover
again.

Why, signor ! ' exclaimed Sebastianoo when
he had finished his tale, ' sec ! You have put the
red stocking on the left leg instead of the yellow
one ! One niiglit think that aou were in univ

case

T '

Carlo smiled good-naturedly, congratulated the
dresser again and dismissed him ; but when he
Alas alone he bowed his head on his hands and
sat for a long time motionless, overwhelmed by a
sense of his utter desolation. What was there left
to him ? Well, there was a certain increasing
fame. But, after all, what was that ? Success
was sweet, and yet in a way it did but make him
feel his loneliness the more. Often enough the
tears would start to his eyes when he read glowing
praise of his artistic work, because he could
not help thinking how such things would have

pleased his mother. The chief worth of all such
recognition is the pleasure it gives to those who
love us, and he now stood practically alone in the
world ; success and fame would be his, but neither
father nor mother, neither wife nor child, would
be present with him to make them seem worth
while.

The voice of the call-boy roused him from his
sad thoughts. He Avrung his hands together.

My God, help me ! ' he groaned.

Then taking up his jester's cap with its
gold coxcomb, he made his way to the wings
and was soon transformed into the malicious,
mocking Rigoletto, playing the part with his
customary skill, and receiving with his usual
quiet modesty the thunder of applause which
rewarded him.

CHAPTER VT.

Ab, well, the world is discreet ;

There are plenty to pause and wait ;
But here was a mau who set his feet

Sometimes in advance of fate.

Never rode to the wrong s redressing

A Worthier paladin.
Shall he not hear the blessing 

Good and faithful, enter in ? " '

"WlIITTIF.n,

A MONTH passed by. In his outer life Carlo went
through the series of farewell performances at
New York, attended Sardoni-sveddiug-, and
travelled back to Italy. In his inner life he
fought a terrible battle and came out conqueror.

Xo further details of Francesca's marriage
had as yet reached him to I'elievc his misery of
ignorance and suspense. Apparently both Chirp
and Enrico shrank from touching on so difficult
a subject, and all he had received by way of
answer to his letter was a copy of Io T'<)!t}(f

from Enrico, containing the same paragraph
which Mile, che Caisne had enclosed.

The shrewd-looking official, who presided at
the hurcfiN in the hall of one of the hotels at
Genoa, sat speculating to himself as he saw the
much-talked-of baritone pass into the breakfast-room
on the morning after Merlino's Company-had
landed in Italy.

There was something about Donati's face
which he could not understand : it was not the
face one woidd have expected in a man who, at
six-and-twenty, had achieved a striking success,
and who was said to be the finest baritone in
Europe. Sorrow had not hardened him or soured
him, but it had added a sort of depth to his
expression, and just now he bore always the look
of one who has imposed on himself a strong
restraint.

The official was pleased when, on leaving the
breakfast-room. Carlo came to the bureau to buy
some stamps, and he adroitly seized the opportunity
to prefer a request.

Will you write jour name in the visitors'
book, signer?' he said. 'Everyone in the

place is looking forward to your appearance
to-night, you will see the theatre will be packed
from floor to ceiling ! Your full name, if you
will favour us, signor ; the autograph will be
valuable.'

Carlo smiled a little at the thought that his
very commonplace handwriting should be in
demand ; then, happening to glance up the page
at the names of the other visitors, his heart
suddenly leapt into his mouth as he read, ' II
Conte Carossa, c Contessa Carossa.' The names
were both apparently written in the Count's
writing. lie turned quickly to the concierge.

Count Carossa is still in the hotel ? '

Yes, signor ; that is to say, he is out just at
this moment, but he has taken his rooms for u
week. The Contessa is in the 'sa/otfo. I saw her
go in just now.'

For a moment ho hesitated. Francesca was
here inter the same roof with him I Dared he
seek her out ':' Dared ho hear from her own
lips the whole truth:' When he had landed on
the previous evening he had sent off another
urgent letter imploring Enrico to write, or, if

possible, to come and see him at Genoa, where
they had accepted a brief engagement ; but now
to be told that Francesca was close to him threw
him completely off his balance, and an impulse
scarcely resistible drove him towards the sotto.
Should he not enter, that room ? Shoidd he not
see her at least for this once ? And yet every
throbbing pidse within him warned him not todo
so, proved to him beyond dispute that for
Francesca's sake and for his own he had far
better not seek her out.

"With a struggle that seemed to him bitter as
death, he forced himself to pass by that closed
door, and to go upstairs to his room. He was
not left long in peace, for Gigi  who had grown
into a very manly little fellow of nearly seven
years old, and who had been greatly improved
by two years at a good school in New York 
came bounding in with an eager request.

Zio carry don't you remember you promised
to take me to Villa Pallavicini this morning 
I guess we'll ne'er be likely to get a finer
day, and I do so deftly want to sec the fountains
! '

Though sick at heart, Carlo would not refuse
the little fellow's petition, aud he dragged himself
over to Pcgli, trying hard to enter into
Gigi's happiness, listening to his raptures over
the beautiful gardens, and smiling politely when,
their conductor  a wizen, shrewd-looking, little
man  made time-honoured jokes, and tried to be
facetious. Cither the glorious views of sea and
mountain, nor the lovely groves of ilex, olive,
eucalyptus, and pine trees, nor the glowing colour
of the aloes and rhododendrons, could rouse in
him that day the slightest pleasure. CJigi
chattered merrily as they rowed in a little boat
under charge of a broad-shouldered, kindly old
boatman through the stalactite caves, aud gave
a shout of delight when, as they passed on, and
came in sight of the fountains, they saw one of
the gardeners carrying out the usual practical
joke of turning the watering-hose in the direction
of some visitors, Who fled with good-natured
laughter.

Look, zio cairo ! oh, do look ! ' cried the child,
clapping his hands.

And Carlo, glancing round, saw, only a

stoiic's-tlirow from him, on 1lic hniik, a little
group of visitors, and among tlicm Count
Carossa and Francesca.

Slice did not see him, and, after one long-look,
lie turned away with a sick, dizzy" feeling,
and knew that he was answering the boatman's
remarks at random, and vaguely Wondered
\\-liether, after the first shock, that sight would
grow more bearable to him.

How he lived through that day ho never
quite knew, but he had learnt the truth of the
words which he had spoken to Anita at Philadelphia
that ' Nothing is impossible ; ' and
when the evening came, though Sardoni had
dined with him, and stayed afterwards talking
of Domenico's perfections, and of his anxiety
about his father's first sight of her. Carlo had
betrayed nothing, but seemed as ready as ever
to sympathise with his friend's affairs.

So engrossed was the tenor with his own
happiness that he was amazed when, that evening
at the theatre, Anita drew him aside, and,
with tears in her eyes, begged for his advice.

You arc Carlo's friend ! ' she said, in low,

hurried tones ; ' for God's sake tell me what
to do ! The Contessa Carossa is sitting in the
stalls ! Shall I tell Carlo before he goes on ?'

Sardoni stared.

Who, in Heaven's name, may the Contessa
Carossa be?' he asked.

Insomnia ! I forgot you had not been told !
He kept it from you because he would not have
you troubled at the time of your wedding. She
is Francesca liritton, the girl he was to have
married ! He heard Avhen we were at Philadelphia
that she had become the wife of Count
Carossa.'

Sardoni gave an inarticulate exclamation of
rage and regret.

'He must be told!' he said. *A sudden
shock like that might make him break down.
I will tell him myself ! '

Nita thanked him. She was dressed in the
coquettish costume of Carmen, but for the first
time Sardoni noticed a softened look about her
face. He saw that she had begun at last really
to care for her brother, and that apparently
Coraerio, who was also engaged at Genoa during

the summer season, bad not regained this old
influence with her. This, however, was but the
first night of the engagement,  he wondered
greatly whether her strength would hold out
to the end. And then he thought wrathfully
of Francesca Britton, and remembered with
compunction how he had talked of nothing for
the last few weeks but his own happiness ; and
with regret, and perplexity, and admiration for
his friend all mingled, he knocked at the 
door, determined to speak out plainly
and prepare his companion for what awaited him.

Carlo had just dismissed Sebastianoo, and was
fully equipped in the picturesque costume of
Escamillo, the Tornado, with its green velvet
jacket and knickerbockers faced with gold,
broad red-and-gold sash, tan-coloured gaiters,
and red flag thrown across the left shoulder.
There was no time to be lost, and Sardoni began
abruptly.

I have just been talking to your sister*, Val.
She thought, and I think, too, that you ought
to be prepared beforehand. Count Carossa and
his wife are in the theatre.'

An exclamation of wonder and dismay escaped
Carlo. lie hvp;un to pace the room in terrible
agitation.

Why did you keep your trouble from me,
Yal?' said Sardoni, reproachfully. 'And-what,
in Heaven's name, can have made any woman
forsake a man like you?'

Carlo turned upon him with a fierce gesture.

Not one word against her ! ' ho cried. ' sho
was free quite free ! And what am I to deserve
her, indeed ?  a stage-singer with a tarnished
reputation ! '

'What! You think, then, it was that
slander?' ejaculated Sardoni, understanding
better why Carlo had kept all from him during
this month.

I don't know !  T can't tell! For God's sake.
Jack, don't talk, or 1 think I shall go mad ! '

Again he walked to and fro, struggling
with the thoughts which rushed in wild confusion
through his brain. Why did Francesca
come to hear him sing ? It was so altogether
unlike her to d( so inter the circumstances.
Had she come to prove her indifference?  or

\

(lid she still care for him, and snatch at this
chance of seeing him ?  or was she too much
in awe of her husband to decline to go to the
theatre ? Each thought seemed to him almost
equally intolerable. But time was passing, and
he must somehow manage to get himself in
hand. As he walked he prayed, and as he
prayed he became once more willing to face
whatever was sent. For he wasted no time in
vain questionings as to why this particular
trouble should have come to him, and how it
could possibly work for the general good. His
strength lay in a habit of taking even the smaller
details of life as God's ordering, and in a firm
conviction that no man is ever set to do anything
that is beyond his strength.

Francesca had married Count Carossa. That
being so, he must and could learn to bear the
thought. Nothing was impossible !

Forgive me, dear old fellow, for speaking
sharply ! ' he said, turning back to Sardonic
After all, Jack, I shall know now if she is
happy or not ; and if all is well with her, why
nothing else matters much.'

VOL. 111. N

Sardoni bit lies lip ; Avhcn he could see
clearly again lie found that Carlo was putting
on his Spanish hat, and preparing to go to
the wings. He went with him, choosing a
position from which he could watch his friend's
entrance and reception.

The part of Escamillo, though small, suited
him admirably, nor could any scene have been
better chosen for his reappearance in Italy
than the picturesque entry of the bull-fighter.
Sardoni wondered greatly how the Contessa
Carossa felt down there in the stalls, as she
Avatchcd with the rest the entrance of the
torch-light procession, and saw the crowd group
itself and look expectantly towards the back
of the stage, till, amid a chorus of ' Hurrah
for brave Escamillo ! ' the slight, graceful figure
in tornado costume advanced through a little
lane of torches.

Carlo's fame had preceded him, and the
Genoese audience greeted him warmly ; he took
off his black velvet hat and bowed with the
mingled dignity and simplicity of manner which
made him at once revered and loved by so

many. Then, quickly turning from the homage
of the audience to the business of his part,
and resuming the bold, genial bearing of Es-camilla,
he drained the wine-cup handed to
him, tossed it across the stage to one of
the chorus, and broke forth into the well-known
Tornado Song.

His beautiful voice, the vigour of his acting,
the imaginative power conveyed by each look
and gesture, held the audience spell-bovmd, and
Sardoni marvelled how, milder the circumstances,
he could sing the refrain of 

Bear thou in mind, when combat thee elates,
Two bright eyes fondly regard.
For thee a fond heart waits. Tornado.'

At the close of the first verse the theatre
rang with shouts of 'Bravo.' And then once
again came the graphic description of the bidl-
fight, till, by mere gesture and expression, he
brought the whole scene vividly before the
audience. Most of them had heard Carmen
before, and had seen the baritone more or
less energetically flap his red flag. But Carlo
actually made them feel the suspense and excitement

of the real contest. He surpassed
himself, and Avhen once more the retrain had
been sung the whole house rose, and with
frantic cheering gave the new baritone an
ovation. Not one of the applauds guessed
that the song had been to the singer a torturing
effort, a mockery almost intolerable ; or
dreamed how his heart was aching as he stood
there acknowledging their thanks. Not till
the end did he dare to look towards the
place where they had told him Francesca was
sitting ; but, as he stood close to the footlights,
bowing his acknowledgments, he ventured
one keen, searching glance ; he would, at least,
learn if she looked well and happy, would
try to gauge the Count's character.

But he had expected too much of himself;
all was confusion; he could only see that the
Count Mas frantically applauding him, and that
Francesca's eyes were shining and her cheeks
glowing. After that brief glance the whole
house swam before him, and the only thing
for him to do was to get through, us quickly
as might be, his brief dialogue with Carmen,

and niavcli off amid the greetings of his comrades
while the orchestra once more played the Tore-adore
air. The moment he was behind the
scenes his brisk, blithe step changed, there
Alas a sort of relief in being able to relax
the strain he had pnt on himself, yet never,
even in the first shock of the news of Francesca's
marriage, had he felt such an overwhelming
sense of loss and loneliness as now
when he had actually' seen her sitting beside
her husband in the theatre. His first impulse
was to lock himself into his dressing-room, but
something made him hesitate ; if he were alone
he should think, and if he thought, he .should
be lost ; the only chance of his being able
to keep his faculties clear for the rest of
the opera lay in avoiding thought as far as
possible, sifter a minute he forced himself
to go to the green-room and to join in the
conversation, and there he remained through
the interval, till the call-boy summoned him
again, and Sebastianoo handed him a striped
scarf instead of the red one. Flinging it across
his shoulder he stepped on to the stage, changed

himself with an effort into the Tornado with
his careless geniality, received with cool indifference
Don Jose's indignation, and, when
challenged to fight, gave a masterly representation
of southern passion, springing like a
tiger on his foe, and, with drawn knife, fighting
desperately. All was speedily over, and again
he waited behind the scenes to sing the refrain
of the Tornado Song in the distance,

'You look tired, Donatus remarked Caffieri.
Confoundedly hot, isn't it ? '

He assented, though all the time he was
shivering from head to foot. It was doubly hard
to sing those words in cold blood off the stage.
But he got through them somehow, and leaning
wearily against the wall of the passage waited till
the cries of * Donati ! ' rose to a roar, and then he
pulled himself together, crossed the stage, and
stepped out before the curtain to accept the
homage which just then meant to him so
little.

What must be borne can be borne,' he said
to himself again and again ; ' and at least Francesca
is happy.'

And now the end of the opera was drawing
near, and his part was almost over. Nita watched
him with mingled wonder and sympathy as they
waited side by side for their last entrance : ho
was grave and silent, and the chorus from the
stage of ' Viva Escamillo ! ' jarred upon him she
fancied, yet, though the wistful look in his eyes
told plainly of his trouble he was still ready as
usual to think of other people.

There is a horrible draught here ! ' he exclaimed,
' you will take cold, Nita.'

And so saying he wrapped his red scarf round
her Avhite shoulders, snatching it off again
adroitly when they advanced on to the stage.
somehow she had never felt so near to him as at
that minute. She knew so well what it was that
made him tremble as, with his arm round her, he
sang the pathetic little farewell of the Tornado,
knew so well what it cost him to utter the words,
If thou lowest me, Carmen, thou shalt smile by-and-by
; thou shalt be proud of me.'

Together they were just singing their mutual
avowal of love, the house was hushed to catch the
exquisitely blended voices in the last soft repetition

of * Yes, I love thee ! ' when from the gallery
there rose a hoarse crj-  the most terrible cry
that can be raised in any great gathering  the
cry of * Fire ! '

Y/ith a shriek Nita tore herself away and
rushed from the stage, and in one instant it
seemed to Carlo that the whole house was in an
uproar. He shouted an assurance that there was
no danger ; he begged Marionii to go on With the
opera ; but it was all in vain. Then he stood like
a statue in the front of the stage, though all around
him his companions were flying, though women
were shrieking, though Marionii dragged him by
the arm, imploring him to save himself while yet
there was time. He shook himself free, and remained
gazing down at the seething mass of
people in the stalls, spite of all the confusion
keeping his eye steadily on Count Carossa and
his wife, till at length, with a pang of wrath and
astonishment he saw the Count force a way
through the crowd for a beautiful fair-haired
girl beside him who seemed to be almost fainting
with terror, and leave Francesca to take care
of herself.

But indignation soon gave place to a thrill of
wild exultation. At least it Alas his part to
shield her now,  her husband had left her,
and that time which he had thought might possibly
come in some dim future had arrived  he
might serve her  might, perhaps, save her from
death.

He rushed to the side of the stage, leapt down
into the deserted orchestra, dashed aside the
music-stands which impeded his progress, cleared
the barrier at a bound, and, with the agility
which was natural to him increased by the fearful
excitement, forced his way to Francesca.

Carlino ! ' she cried, joy, fear, and relief
mingling in her tone as she snatched his hands
in hers ; ' I knew you would come. I could' t
go with Count Carossa ! '

He dropped her hands, perplexed, troubled,
utterly surprised. That Francesca under the circumstances
should have spoken thus, seemed to
him wholly unlike her. The marriage had been a
forced one, undoubtedly, but jet how doubly'
strange of her to come and hear him that night ;
how immensely she must have altered to greet

him now with such words. Terror must surely'
have made her forget all else.

'Don't be afraid,' he said, very gently', j'ct
with a manner so restrained that she instantly
noticed it; 'even if this is not wholly a false
alarm our best hope of escaping unhurt is just to
stay here quietly. See, if you don't mind my
holding you like this I think I can prevent your
being pushed by the crowd.'

Carlo,' she said, quickly, relapsing into
English ; ' are you angry with me ? '

I ? How can you ask such a question ? I
am not angry at all, not in the least.'

T couldn't half) it ; I couldn't go with the
Count, and not know what had happened to you.
Arc you thinking of what people will say ? '

No, that matters very little. But I fear you
did wrong to stay.'

Wrong, when I love you ? '

For God's sake be silent ! ' he cried, in a
voice wrung with pain. ' I dare not let you speak
such words to me. Let us say no more at all.
Perhaps the way will soon be clear, and I can
take you back to the Count. I don't understand

hour he could possibly leave you behind; he is
very much to be blamed.'
Her ejes were full of tears,

You must not be A-exed with him,' she said,
falteringly ; ' it was my doing. I would not go,
and it was right that he should think first of his
wife ; she M'as almost fainting.'

His wife ! ' gasped Carlo. * His wife !
Francesca ! speak ! speak ! tell me what you
mean ! '

His manner terrified her.

Why, he married Flora Britton, that pretty'
Scotch cousin of mine ; she had been staying with
us since her mother's death.'

For answer Carlo, regardless of all else,
caught her in his arms, and had the panic in the
theatre caused their death he would scarcely have
murmured, for in that moment of exquisite relief,
in that restoration to him of all he thought he
had lost, he lived through whole years of
rapture.

My own ! ray darling ! Can you ever forgive
me ? ' he cried.

I don't understand,' sobbed Francesca ; ' but

nothing iiiatttrs since you love me still ; nothing
matters now-svc are together once more.'

He thrust his hand impatiently into the
tornado costume, and drawing forth an envelope
held it towards her.

I can't tell you,' he said ; ' but look at these,
and you will perhaps forgive me.'

"With blank astonishment she looked at the
cutting from the Times announcing her own marriage
to Count Carossa.

Ah, who could have done so cruel a thing ! '
she exclaimed. ' This never could ha-\-e been in
the Times at all, or, of course, we should have
heard of it. Who could have had it printed
like this on purpose?'

I see it now ! ' said Carlo. ' It must ha-e
been Comerio's vengeance ! '

His wrath was almost swallowed up in the
strange perception that began to steal over him
of how completely evil had defeated its own ends.
Comerio's vengeance had actually been the means
of winning for himself Anita's sympathy and love.

The hj-mn we sang at Flora's wedding,' observed
Francesca, ' and her monogram ' F. B.'

just like mine  low horribly it must all luivc
fitted in! This letter, too I  Who wrote it?'

It is from Mile, de Caisne ; she was engaged
at the San Carlo, but I'll never believe that she
had anything to do with that false notice.
Comerio was singing at the San Carlo, too.
He must have induced her to write the account
and send the papers, and himself have inserted
that thing. I don't like Elise de Caisne, but she
would never have lent herself to a fraud like
that.'

How horribly the people cry out near the
doors ! ' exclaimed Francesca, able now for the
first time to realise a little A\hat was going on
round her. ' Oh, Carlo ! how frightened I
should be if you were not here with me I '

The panic had evidently not been without
some cause, for clouds of smoke came from the
back of the stage, and a strong smell of burning
filled the place. It was quite apparent that
whatever fire there was must be behind the
scenes, but Carlo, with good reason, feared for
Francesca the dangers of the crowd far more
than the danger of the flames.

They were now almost alone iu the stalls,
and the space between them and the stage was
perfectly clear, for everyone had fled from the
source of danger and had rushed to the doors,
where a horrible struggle was going on.

*Is Captain Britton in Genoa P' asked Carlo.

Yes, we are all here in the Pilgr'un 
Uncle George, and Kate, and Clare. Oh, how
frightened they will be if they hear of this panic
before we get out ! '

Where had they arranged to meet you P'
Uncle George and father were to call for meat
the hotel where Renato and Flora are staying.
It was such a chance that I came at all, for you
know how little father likes theatre-going. But
they came to the yacht this morning, and begged
to have me for the day, and said they had taken
places for Carmen, and father never likes to say
"No," and so I came, not knowing till we
landed that Flora had planned it all on purpose
that I should hear you sing.'

They will be terribly anxious about you !
Do you think you could be brave enough to
walk into this smoke, which is driving everyone

else away ? I believe we should have a very f air
chance of escaping through the orchestra.'

Yes, yes  let us come ! ' she cried. ' I am
not afraid of anything with you !'

He wrapped her shall round her, cleared the
way for her towards the orchestra, lifted her
over the barrier, and, quickly following himself,
advanced cautiously through the smoke-filled
passages. Before long he stumbled up against
Sardoni.

You here, Jack ! ' he exclaimed. ' Can we
get out ? How did it happen ? '

You can get out all right,' said Sardoni.
The fire is almost got under ; they are working
away splendidly with the tire-engines. I was
just coming to look for you. How it started no
one knows, imlcss it was from one of the matches
flung down when they were smoking in the camp-scene,
 and yet I don't see how that can have
been. You'll get none of the fun here ; come
and look at it.'

Not now ; Miss Britten's people will be
anxious ; we must get out as quickly as may be.
There is no crowd at the stage-door, I suppose ?'

A fire-engine or two blocking the way, perhaps
 nothing worse. But what in Heaven's
name has hajjpenecl, Val?'

He ghmccd for an instant at the sweet,
girlish face, which, not long before, he had
watched With indignant wonder.

Comerio's vengeance I ' said Carlo, in a low
voice ; then, turning back, he said, * Francesca,
this is my friend sardonic, of whom you have
often heard.'

Francesca shook hands with him warmly.

'And how about Madame Merlin' she
asked. ' Is she quite safe ? '

I took her back to the hotel with my wife,'
said Sardoni ; * and I delicate on the way back I
passed Coimt Carossa,'

He was obliged to try and get his wife out
quickly,' explained Francesca. * Oh, I hope
Flora wasn't hurt in the crowd ! Do let us get
back to them !'

Come with us, Jack, if you don't mind,'
said Carlo ; and together they made their way,
through the crowded streets to the hotel, which
was not far oil'.

In the entrance-hall the found a number of
people clustered round the poor little Contessa,
who was lying on the floor quite unconscious,
yhile the Count, who had had his arm broken
in the crush round the door of the theatre,
received no sympathy at all from Captain
Britton, who had just come ashore from the
yacht, and was beside himself with anger and
anxiety.

"She Avould not come !'"' ' he stormed. 'Of
course not ! An English girl has sense enough
not to make for the door in a panic ! And you
ought to have stayed with her ! How dare you
take my daughter out, and then forsake her like
a '

Mr. Britton hastily interposed.

John, don't waste time in talking ! ' he said.
Let us come round quickly, and see if we can't
find her.'

'Gran Bio!' cried the Count, starting forward,
' here she is ! '

Captain Britton turned, and saw that Francesca
was just entering the hotel, leaning on the
arm of an actor gorgeously attired in (Spanish

VOL. III. o

costume. It flashed upon him, even at that
moment, that it was a strange reversal of things
which should bring him to scold a Count for his
desertion and to thank an opera - singer for
rescuing his daughter.

My dear, dear child ! ' he exclaimed, bending
down to kiss her ; ' we have only just heard
of the fire  we have been terribly anxious about
you ! You are not hurt ? '

Not a bit ! ' said Francesca. ' Carlo made
me stay quite still, and then helped me out
through the orchestra and by the stage-door
'

Carlo ! ' exclaimed Captain Britton, in
amazement. And, glancing round, he saw that
the 'Tornado' was shaking hands with Mr.
Britton, and answering as best he might the
torrent of questions which assailed him on all
sides.

It is Signor Donati, the new baritone, of
whom all the world speaks ! ' said one of the
little crowd. * Via ! I tell you I should know
him anywhere. The shops are full of his photographs.'


And lie lias saved the pretty Siguorina from
the fire ! ' exclaimed another.

Captain Britton, forgetting for once in his
genuine glow of emotion that many eyes were
watching him, drew near to the hero of the
evening.

Carlo, my dear boy ! ' ho exclaimed, seizing
his hand in a heart' grip ; ' I can never thank
yon enough  never ! '

Something in his throat choked him, and Mr.
Britton, having suggested that rumours might
possibly have reached the Pilgrim, and that
Clare and Kate might be anxious, he quickly
availed himself of the chance of escaping from
so trying a scene, and, with a parting shake of
the hand, and a * To-morrow ! ' spoken sotto voce,
which conveyed much to Carlo, he drew his
daughter's arm within his, and led her away
from the hotel.

Chapter VII.

YACHTING.

Let lis be like the bird for a moment perched

On a frail branch while he sings,
Though he feels it bend jet he sings his song,
For he knows he has his wings.'

Victor Hugo.

You look pale, Nita ; I am afraid the fright of
last night has done you harm,' said Carlo, coming
into the Mcrlinos' private sitting-room the next
morning. *It is just as well that the damage
done to the theatre will prevent our keeping this
engagement. They say the place is to be closed
for a fortnight, and after the horrors that went
on in the crush last night it is only decent.'

'The wonder is that more were not killed,'
said Nita, with a shudder. *0h, I am so glad
not to have to sing again to-night ; I should
always be hearing again that horrible cry.'

Do not dwell on it, think of something else,
it lias made you look quite ill,' said Carlo, do-bating

whether he shoukl talk to her of his
own happiness, but coming to the conclusion
that she seemed too sad, and that it would be
better not to touch on the subject.

'It is not the fright that has made me ill,'
she said at length. * I must tell you, Carlino,
all about it. Comerio has been here.'

Here this morning ! ' he exclaimed.

Yes,' she shivered from head to foot, ' and
I made him own that Mile, de Caisnc knew
nothing of that advertisement. He got her to
write the letter easily enough, for you know she
was vexed with you, and he made her believe
that it was Miss Flora Britton whom you were
in love with, and then he posted the letter for
her, and put in the cutting from the Times.
Just think of his boasting to me of the cleverness
of the trick ! '

Carlo, with a muttered ejaculation, paced
hurriedly to and fro, trying to keep his indignation
within bounds.

He told me how he had got it printed,'
she continued, 'and expected me to praise him
for it.'

And you ? ' asked Carlo, with dawning hope
in his tone.

'I told him that I would never speak to
him again said Nita, trying in vain to repress
a sob. * But, Carlino, I am afraid of him, so
terribly afraid. He looked as if he could have
killed me, and just went away without another
word. Oh, if only I had never seen him ! If
only I had believed, like you, that nothing is
impossible, and had resisted from the first ! But
he was always so strong, and I so weak and
friendless.'

'But you have resisted now,' said Carlo,
trying to comfort her. 'And as to fearing
what he may do, I would try not to trouble
about it, for, depend upon it, he values his own
safety too much to do anything desperate ;
besides, if evil is strong, good is more strong.'

*It doesn't seem to be in this world, at any
rate,' said Nita.

Do you think not ? Perhaps it doesn't
alway's conquer here at first, but that matters
little if in the end it wins.'

You will not leave me ? ' she pleaded. ' If

you leave the Company my last chance is gone.
Ah, do you remember how I hoped at Birmingham
that you would go, and that Comerio would
take your place ? If he had spent those two
years in America with us I should have been
in his power noah.'

She shuddered, for something had shown her
that morning the true nature of the man whom
she had loved.

I will never leave you,' he said, quietly.

Through those three years of lonely work he
had struggled on, bearing Nita's selfish indifference,
her fits of perverse ill-nature, and not
daring to look on to the future. Now the change
had come upon him so suddenly that he was
almost overpowered by it. He had reaped the
rcM'ard which can only come to those who live
by the day ; having toiled faithfully through
the darkness, he emerged suddenly into a flood
of glorious simshinc.

*An English gentleman to see you, Signor,
in the sa lotto,' announced a waiter.

Carlo's heart beat quickly as he went downstairs,
yet he was less embarrassed than Captain

Bretton, Abo met him with an overpowering
shake of the hand, and then rehijised into silence.

Francesca is none the worse for the fright I
hope ? ' asked Carlo, anxiously

Indeed, I think she is all the better for it,'
said the Captain, smiling a little.

There was another silence.

The fact is, Donati,' resumed Captain
Britton, dragging his chair forward with a
business-like air, and planting both elbows on
the table ; * there is no use in beating about
the bush ; I have come here to ask you a plain
question, and I hope you'll give me a plain
answer. Do you still care for my child or not ?
Just answer me yes or no.'

The bluff speech of the old sailor nearly took
away the Italian's breath, but if Captain Britton
really' expected him to answer in a monosyllable
to such a question he was disappointed.

His face glowed, his eyes shone, yet, spite
of the passionate eagerness of his tone, there was
a dignity in his manner which appealed to the
Englishman.

I love her, sir, with mv whole heart ! ' he

said. ' I love her, and must always love her.
We belong to each other, and though we may
have to go through life apart, yet she is mine
and I am hers, and nothing can come between
us.'

'So it seems,' said the Captain, rather ruefully.
'Well, I frankly tell you that I Avould
rather see my daughter married to a plain
working-man than to an opera-singer ; but I
have talked the matter over with my brother
and Miss Claremont, and since jour love has
stood the test of a three-years absence, and since
Francesca will not lend an car to any other proposals,
I am bound to consider what is most for
her happiness, though I can't candidly tell you
that it is such a match as I should have chosen
for her.'

Indeed,' exclaimed Carlo, with a lover's
genuine humility ; ' I know I can never deserve
her, but '

Nonsense,' interrupted the Captain ; ' I
meant nothing personal of that sort ! You
know well enough. Carlo, that I am very fond
of you, that I can never forget that you saved

her life ' He began to feel choked, and

broke off abruptly.

'As to that,' said Carlo, smiling, 'it was
nothing at all. "We only sat still when others
were running away, and I really think we forgot
fire and danger altogether' at first.'

Let us speak out plainly once for all,' said
Captain Britton, clearing his throat, 'and then
have done with it altogether. I dislike jour profession,
but I understand that you have a great
future before you in the musical world, and I
suppose nature meant you for an opera-singer,
and that there is no use in running one's head
any longer against a stone wall. After all, a
man need not be affected by his work, and perhaps
dramatic talent was meant to be used. I
don't deny that there's something in that argument.
And the great thing is that the stage
doesn't seem to have spoilt you, and that I know
you'll make my child a good husband.'

Between his rapture of happiness, his anxiety
not to irritate the Englishman by allowing his
feelings to appear too plainly, and his dazzling
visions of the future. Carlo foimd his powers

taxed to the utmost. But-with an effort he
forced himself to enter into a sober discussion
of the case, recalled to Captain Britten's memory
the fact that Uncle Guido's inheritance had gladdened
the hearts of the Little Sisters of the Poor,
and then told him plainly just how matters stood
with regard to Anita.

The Captain was touched by his simple jet
very graphic way of telling a story. He began
f ninth' to perceive the rare beauty of his character.

You are going to Naples now, at once, did I
understand ? ' he asked, when at length Carlo
paused.

AVe thought of going there now, since the
theatre will be closed after this panic, and our
engagement at the San Carlo will soon be beginning.
My brother-in-law is going to take a
fortnight at the baths at Lucca, for he has not
been-nncII lately I shall go home to Naples with
Nita and her little boy.'

Then come with us in the Fil/jrim,' said the
Captain, ' My brother begged that you would
do so, and Sibyl will be enchanted to have the
little boy as a playmate.'

After Nita had been consulted, and the matter
had been a little more discussed, the invitation
was accepted, and by the evening a general dispersion
had taken place. Merlino had gone off
to his course of baths ; Sardoni andDonienica had
started joyfully on what they called their second
wedding tour to the Italian lakes ; Carlo, Nita,
and Gigi, were welcomed on board the Pilgrim ;
and, in advance of all, Comerio, with hatred in his
heart, was making the best of his way to Corsica.

Although, as Carlo had observed when he first
set foot on the yacht years ago, the Pilgrim was not
at all a place for talking secrets, yet the lovers
were somehow well content, and enjoyed to the
full those happy days of reunion. The rest of
the party had a kind way of playing whist in the
saloon when it grew dai-k ; and as to the man
at the wheel they were quite untroubled by his
presence, nor disturbed themselves at all about
the watch, who discreetly kept to the forecastle
end, and no doubt found plenty to sa' among
themselves as to the betrothal, which was now an
acknowledged fact.

It is almost too good to seem true,' .said

Carlo one evening, as they sat together inter
the square-sail which was spread to catch the
light summer Avind. On one side they could seethe
dark Italian coast, on the other the beautiful
outline of the mountains in Elba, while the moon
made an ever-shifting track of light on the sea
as they glided gently on, and the red light from
the port side cast a ruddy glow on the white sail
towering above them. ' How little I thought,'
he added, ' of having such a home-coming ! '

Yes, said Francesca ; ' and that it should
have been in the dear old Pihjrhn ! How strange
that is ! I used to be so miserable here three
years ago, and now it does seem, as you say,
almost too good to be true.'

And the same happy faculty for living in the
present, which had stood Carlo in good stead
through his years of trouble, helped now to make
this happiness perfect. No lurking fear of Comerio
spoilt those cloudless da3s, no anxieties as to
Nita's future, no troubles as to money matters.
Marriage seemed still a far-away prospect, but
they were betrothed, and there could never again
bo between them that wearing separation, that

maddening dependence on outsiders for the least
news of each other.

I had heard nothing of you for two months,'
said Francesca, as again, to make their present
brighter by contrast, they talked over the troubles
of the past ; * but that was better than having
false news. You have had the hardest part,
darling, and yet you'll never know how bitter
it was to me in one wa}'.'

"What way ? ' he asked, tenderly.

I couldn't tell you at Merlebank, but it was
knowing that you were so poor, and having money
myself, and not being able to help you. Ah !
you'll never know how hard it was to be able
to give to anyone in the world except to the one
you loved best. There is a little matter-of-fact
bit in Aurora Leigh which I used to say for
comfort.'

'What was that? Say it to me now.'

" Let us be content in work.

To do the thing we can, and not presume
To fret because it's little."

I did fret, though, for, after all, we are most
of us like Ah'cc in Wonderful,  \e\\ fond of

giving ourselves good advice, but seldom taking
it!'

They laughed a little, and now it was the
trouble that seemed like a dream, and the happiness
that had become true, and real, and indisputable.
And together they paced the quiet
deck, while below Nita's sweet, clear voice sang
the familiar air of 'Oh, dolce JVajw/i,' which
Francesca loved because of its happy associations.

See Naples and die ! ' said Carlo, smiling.
I often thought, over in America, that I would
gladly have done so ; but now I think not.
Carina, much as I love it. Let us hope people
in real life don't die of joy.'

CHAPTER VIII.

A FINAL CHOICE.

So oft the doing of God's Will

Our foolish wills uncouth !
And yet what idle dream breaks ill
Which Morning Light svibdueth ?
And who would murmur and misdoubt
"When God's great Sunrise finds him out ? '

E. B. Browning.

And so, after all, you have overcome the British
prejudice and have only managed to lose your
fortune ! ' exclaimed Enrico Hitter, looking his
friend in the face with a critical air. * It seems
that you have got back your health again,
too. Upon my word, I think knight-errantry
is a profitable calling, always supposing you
haven't a cantankerous relative to cut you off
with a shilling. I shall think of taking to it
myself soon.'

Carlo had landed at Naples late on the previous
evening, and now, after the mid-d;iy breakfast

with the Ritter household and a long talk
with his old friend, was making his way back
to the Palazzo Forti in the cool of the afternoon.
He was in the best of spirits, and had just been
giving Enrico the account of all that had passed
during the last few weeks.

'You still set up for being an egoist, I see,'
he replied, with a laugh.

Well, every man must have his theory of the
universe,' said Enrico, with a mischievous side-glance
at his friend. ' Ah ! by the by, you
should shake your fist at that house over thereon
the right ; it belongs to the Little Sisters of
the Poor, and ate up all your money.'

I should have been glad enough of some of
it in America,' said Carlo, with a smile. 'However,
no doubt our poor Neapolitans wanted it
quite as badly. Oh, wait ! how fast you walk !
Let us stop and see the view from this terrace
just for half-a-minutc  dear old Capri again, how
natural it looks I You would laugh if you kncAV
how homesick I have been over in the New
World.'

I must make a note of that,' said Enrico.
VOL. 111. r

In my future knight-errantry I'll take good care
to keep in Italy.'

And so, with laughter and friendly teasing,
they walked through the busy streets until they
came in sight of the dingy old palazzo, at the
door of which an ostler was holding a beautified
cream-coloured horse.

Come in and see Anita,' said Carlo ; ' she will
have had her siesta by this time.'

And Eurico, though he detested Madame
Mcrlino, consented to go in to please his friend,
and made himself very amiable to her while
Carlo opened a telegram which had arrived for
him during his absence.

The message was sent from Pozzuoli by
Captain Britton, and was to this effect, 

We hope you will dine with us to-night. I
have ordered a horse to be sent round for you.
Do not fail us.'

Nita, should you mind if I went to Casa
Bella?' he asked. 'The Captain seems to want
me over there, for he has even taken the trouble
to send a horse for me. I will be back, of
course, to-night.'

If that was the horse we saw waiting outside
you will get there in no time,' said Enrico ; ' it
beats your old Aral.'

But this Carlo would not allow, and amid
much lively discussion as to his old favourite, he
nodded a farewell to Nita and Gigi, and ran downstairs,
his heart beating fast at the prospect of
seeing Francesca again so soon.

Auf iciedersehn !' said Enrico, as he watched
his friend ride away. And the bright look and
gesture in response kept recurring to him ashe
walked back to his office.

What in the world is that fellow made of ! '
he said to himself. * He is for ever upsetting all
my calculations and disturbing my pet theories.
lie even seems to have roused up that heartless,
insipid Anita ; for the first time I actually saw a
kind of likeness between them. One could at
least tell that they were brother and sister.'

To be once again on the familiar road to
Pozzuoli made Carlo's heart glow within him.
Every tree, every house, seemed like an old
friend ; his eye noted each slight change
wrought during the three years of absence.

while his mind recalled the past with little but
u tender remembrance of the bygone happiness.
As, he drew near to the grotto of Posilipo he
instinctively slackened his pace a little, glancing
up with eyes full of glad recognition at the lovely
hillside, with its tangled growth of birch, and
pine, and cactus, clustering about the place which
is supposed to be the tomb of Virgil.

It was at this moment that a close carriage
drove quickly past him ; he would have taken no
particular notice of it had he not, with his keen
and practised observation, noted even in the brief
moment of passing the remarkably fine eyes of
one of the occupants. Where had he seen them
before ? Both the eyes and the searching glance
seemed familiar to him, and racking his memory
he at length brought back a mental picture of a
water-seller's stall, and of a young man of strong
and sinewy frame, who had arrested his attention
last night by a certain picturesqueness of attitude
as he stood watching the crowd glass in hand;
for an instant they had looked full at each other,
and the piercing glance of the stranger had
lingered in his memory, and he had thought to

himself as he passed on that even in Italy one
did not often encounter such splendid eyes.

Entering the lofty archway of the grotto he
passed on into the dark tunnel, which seemed to
him more than ever like the long nave of some
vast cathedral, the lights gleaming at intervals
making the surrounding gloom only more apparent.
He smiled a little to himself at the
recollection of sundry boyish terrors never confessed
to any living creature and never given way
to ; he remembered how, now and then on his
way home from Naples, there had been times
when the horrible feeling of an unknown ' something
' waiting to spring out upon him from the
darkness had set his heart beating fast, and had
made him resort in desperation to a Paternoster ;
and he acknowledged to himself that there was
perhaps some slight excuse for those past terrors,
since, after all, the grotto was an eerie place, and
the road, even at this hour in the afternoon,
lonely enough.

But recollections of old times began to give
place to the absorbing consciousness that he was
on his way to Francesca, and as he left the dimly

lighted tunnel behind him and emerged into the
dust and the afternoon sunshine, he fell into a
happy reverie. He was to see her again, and she
was his, and the trouble was all over, and the
separation ended, and life was so bright that
already those weary years seemed to him like a
dream and the glad anticipation like a return to
real waking existence.

She would be waiting for him at the gate of
Casa Bella, and they would go once more to the
old belvedere where he had first told her of his
love ; he would make her stand once more under
the datura tree where she had stood long ago
when the trouble was just beginning to darken
on the horizon, and he should see her now again
as he had seen her so often in his dreams, with
the creamy flowers drooping down over her
dusky hair and her eyes shining into his.

He smiled to himself with the rapture of the
thought, and touched up his horse, grudging
every moment that kept him from his love.

He had ridden about two miles beyond the
grotto and had nearly reached the cross road
which leads towards Agnano, when he was roused

from his dream of happiness by his horse shying
violently at the sudden apparition of a man
rushing across the road. All his attention was
needed to quiet the animal, and it was only when
he found himself surrounded by four formidable-looking
ruffians that he realised another danger.
There was just time for him to give his horse a
smart stroke over the shoulder which made it
bound forward, but the effort was useless, for one
of his assailants instantly caught the reins in a
firm grip and the next moment he was dragged
from his seat. With all his might he struggled to
free himself, but it was only for a minute or two
that he could even keep his footing ; a hand hold
his throat so tightly that to cry out for help was
impossible, to breathe at all difficult, and, though
he fought gallantly, and by adroitness and agility
rather than strength managed to give his captors
some trouble, it was inevitable that he should
succumb. Bruised, shaken, half choked by the
relentless grip on his throat, he at length felt his
strength overborne, and, struggling to the end,
was forced down on to the dusty road. Then came
a moment's breathing-space, for the hand at his

throat relaxed its hold and another and a coarser
hand was substituted for it. One of the men
hrokc the silence, speaking in a low, hurried
voice, 

Now then, Lionbruno, the blow  quick ! '
To move was impossible. Three powerful
men held him down in the dust, a fourth was
apparently told off to murder him. He had time
for only two thoughts  Comerio's vengeance and
Francesca's grief ; and the pang of this last
thought was so terrible that the prompt blow on
the head which put an end to consciousness
was, perhaps, more merciful than preparation 'or
delay.

When he came to himself he remembered
nothing that had passed, but awoke to a consciousness
of intense physical misery. He gasped
for breath and became aware that his mouth was
tightly bandaged; there was, moreover, a covering
over his face  jDcrhaps a shroud ! and in the
horror of that thought he instinctively tried to
raise his hand and make feeling supply the place
of sight, but he found that his arms were tightly
strapped to his sides. Restored still further to

life by the mere astonishment and dismay, he
perceived that he was in a carriage which was
being driven rapidly along a rather rough road,
his head ached terribly and felt heavy and confused,
and he was sinking back into a sort of
stupor and vaguely wondering how long he
should have to bear the pain of the jolting-vehicle,
when the silence was broken by a voice
near him.

'For Dio / who would have thought such a
small-made man would have given us so much
trouble ! '

He fought so well that our courteous Lion-bruno
was in fifty minds about knocking him on
the head,' said another speaker, sarcastically

e ! ' broke in a much younger voice ;
nothing of the sort, I tell you. Comerio has
had to pay a good price for his pretty prima
donna, but he has not given us a lira too much
for this business,  it was a risky thing in full
daylight. Sacramento ! the fellow is coming to
himself ! '

The mention of Comerio's name had brought
back everything to Carlo's remembrance, and

the intolerable words which followed filled him
with an anguish which, for the time, made the
physical pain non-existent. He started forward,
found his feet unfettered, and began to writhe
and struggle in a vain effort to free his anne.
Instantly strong hands forced him down again,
and heavy' boots kicked his shins into unwilling
stillness,

Be so good as to use your common-sense,
signer ! ' said the yomig voice at his elbow.
You are our prisoner, and wholly at our
mcrc3 Your life is in no danger at present,
but if you resist we shall put an end to you to
save ourselves trouble.'

'Bravo! bravo!' cried another voice, stifling
a laugh. * Lionbruno is such an orator that we
shall soon have him as a Deity, and then he
can travel free of cost ! '

There was a little more stifled laughter,
then silence again, broken only by the solid of
the horses' hoofs and the rumbling of the wheels.

Terrible thoughts rushed through Carlo's
mind. He saw Anita at the mercy of Comerio,
her husband away, Sardoni out of reach, himself

altogether powerless. The intolerable realisation
of Lis own helplessness almost maddened him,
and his brain, still confused by the stunning
blow, refused to be controlled. If he could have
seen with his eyes  if he could have asked one
question  if he could have freed his arms from
the cords which bound them,  the horrible suspense
and anxiety would have been more bearable
; but he was, as his captor had said, wholly
at the mercy of others, and the perception of
this made him beside himself. It was the same
struggle magnified a thousand-fold which he had
passed through at the time of his illness  for a
man the hardest struggle possible,  to endure
an unnatural and undeserved restraint, to be
altogether helpless while conscious of strength,
and knowing that for that strength there is a
terrible demand. Such burning wrath consumed
him, such uncontrollable resentment, that it was,
perhaps, well for him that action was impossible,
or with the blind impulse of a confused brain
and a despairing heart he might have done some
rash deed which, in a cooler moment, he would
bitterly repent.

At length the carriage stopped, and Carlo
was dragged out. The rough handling made
him tingle from head to foot, and with aU his
might he resisted, for he knew that at present
he stood on a road where there was at least a
possibility of meeting with help, and to what
these brigands were hurrying him he had no
idea.

No use, signor ! ' said the voice at his side.
We are four to one, and you only make matters
AYorse for yourself.'

Something in the tone of the speaker appealed
to Carlo. His blood cooled a little, and he allowed
himself to be led through what he felt sure must
be a thick wood, for he coidd hear the rustle of
leaves as the' forced their way on, and could feel
boughs brushing against him. As to the distance
they walked, he could not form the slightest idea.
It seemed to him as if the journey would never
end, and his assailants were evidently in a hurry,
for, spite of the rough, uneven ground, ahoy went
at a sharp pace, and when exhaustion made him
hang back a little, he found himself impatiently
urged on by Lionbruno, who, throughout the

Malk, grasped his arm, while the men who
brought up the rear pushed, kicked, and hustled
him at every opportunity.

At last he was so worn out that it was all
he could do to drag one foot after the other,
the craving for air and light became more and
more keen, and had it not been for the iron grasp
in which he was held he would have fallen to the
ground. A sort of dull comfort in the thought
that it must sooner or later end was his only
relief,  and presently the way became clearer,
he heard other voices, and felt other men approaching
him. Someone tore off the bandages
which had kept him blind and dumb for so long,
and then, dazzled and confused, he looked round.

He found himself in a domed building, which
seemed to him a smaller edition of the old Roman
bath at Baja, known as the Temple of Mercy.
It was lighted only by two torches, which, however,
shed a pretty strong light on the strange
group beneath. Half-a-dozen rough, ill-clad
men were clustered together close to a stone
bench, on which was seated the leader of the
gang, a powerful-looking man, whose rugged

face and uncompromising mouth instantly
checked all the hope that rose in Carlo's heart
when he found himself capable once more of
seeing and speaking.

Brancaleone was not at all the ferocious and
cruel-looking brigand chief of his boyish fancies ;
he was much more like an officer of the martinet
type, but his face was as hard as a rock, and ho
was evidently a person from whom no quarter
was to be expected.

)Success ul, you see, in my first enterprise,
jyndre into /' said the young fellow who had been
addressed as Lionbruno.

Carlo looked at him, and saw that he could
not have been more than eighteen at the outside.
Undoubtedly he was the same picturesque figure
whom he had noticed yesterday by the water-seller's
stall ; and now, as he stood beside the
chief, bowing respectfully yet speaking with the
freedom of a son, the likeness between the two
faces was quite noticeable. In twenty years
time, if he lived the same lawless life, the young
face would be probably an exact reproduction of
the old.

Brancaleone turned his haughty gaze upon
the prisoner.

Your name, signor ? ' he inquired.

I am Carlo Poerio Donati,' he replied.
For what purpose have you brought me here ?
If money is your object, I am as poor as any
man in Naples.'

The chief did not answer, but ordered one
of the banditti to search the prisoner. The
man obeyed, and handed the contents of Carlo's
pockets to the leader, who at once singled out
the watch and chain and handed them to Lion-bruno.


This is your share, my son ; you have done
well,' he remarked.

The rest of the things he pushed collectively
towards the three men who had helped in the
capture ; they snatched eagerly at the purse, and
grumbled much to find so little money in it.

Meanwhile, Carlo stood motionless. Sometimes
it seemed to him that the Avhole scene
must be some wild imagination of his own
brain. Had ho, perhaps, been so overwrought
by the hurrying griefs and joys of the past

few weeks that his mind had become deranged ?
Or was he asleep, and was it all a dream
arising out of some confused recollections of
the struggling he had witnessed in the panic,
and fantastically blended with the gipsy camp
scene in Carmen ? A horrible giddiness seized
him  the result, probable of the blow he had
received and the exhausting walk which had
followed. He staggered a little, but recovered
himself, and once more turned to the chief with
the same question, 

For what purpose have you brought me
here?'

'You bear a name, signor, that I once revered,'
said the chief, coldly ; * and for the sake
of that I will answer you, though I am not
usually questioned by my prisoners. You come
here to replenish my purse. There are those
who were willing to pay well for my son's little
escapade, and your stay here will be quite free
of cost to yourself.'

I will double the sum if you will release
rac at once ! ' exclaimed Carlo.

But the chief shook his head.

Tn the words of the proverb, signor, '' E
mcijito aver o(j<ji un novo cic diu/aiii india ga/iiiui,"
nor do I ever turn from my word. Ilocco, make
haste with the irons ! '

Again that horrible giddy confusion rose in
Carlo's brain ; he Alas Avery' dimly aware of what
happened during the next few minutes ; but the
paroxysm passed, and he found that they Avere
leading him through a catacomb, and that Lion-bruno,
torch in hand, headed the procession.
The passage ended in a sort of rude cell, which
showed signs of habitation, and here his guards
left him, With Lionbruno only as sentinel, lie
noticed that his arms had been unstrapped, but
that there Alas a chain round his Avast to Which one
foot and one hand Avere attached, and the AAeight
of iron Alas so great that he could only moAo
With difficulty. He remembered that Poerio
himself had Adorn such fetters for years, and
again the dreamlike feeling crept over him.
lie could hardly persuade himself that he Alas
actually Carlo Donati, the singer, living in the
peaceful days of King Humbert.

Meanwhile, the son of the chief Alas regard-vol.

III. Q

hug the first prisoner for whose capture he was
responsible with something like embarrassment.
Tie had expected on the part of his victim an
abject terror, a piteous appeal for mercy, which
would effectually have steeled his heart against
him, which would ha-\e genuinely pleased his
pride, and made opportunities for cruelty delightful.
But now that he had got his wish, and with
exceptional coolness and daring had kidnapped
his man in broad daylight and within a few
miles of Naples, he found, much to his disgust,
that, far from feeling himself a hero, he had a
vague sense of discomfort and shame for which
he could not in the least account.

You still feel the effects of the blow,
signer ? ' he inquired, pushing together with
his foot the shavings which had accumulated
about a carpenter's bench that stood in a corner
of the cell. * You had better lie down and rest.'
lie made a gesture towards the pile of shavings,
wondering greatly at himself as he did so.

Cailu, however, took no heed of the suggestion
; instead, he drew nearer to his gaoler.

I am your prisoner,' he siiid, gravely, * and

wholly at your mercy, as you i-emiuded nie just
uow ; but Ave are fellow-men. Do not keep mc
any longer in the dark ! Tell me what Comerio
means to do ! '

What is that to us?' replied Lionbruno. 'For
the present our share of the Avork is done, and for
the rest who cares ? In any case Brancaleone will
get his money. As for your fate, I don't care a
tig about it one way or the other ! '

You are more of a man and less of a brute
than you would have me think,' replied Carlo ;
but it is not of my fate I ask. Tell me what
Comerio means to do ! I know that he is at the
bottom of this plot ; I should have known it
even had I not heard your words in the
carriage ! '

80 you did hear them P And that was what
made you fight again for your freedom ? Take
my advice, signor, and do not ask too many
questions. Corpo di Bacco ! Must you, lion,
hear all ? Well, in two days' time you will
have your limbs freed from those irons, or, if
not, why, your soul will be freed from your body,
which comes to the same thing in the end ! '

Can you not speak plainly ? Do you mean
that my life depends on Comerio's whim  '

]Not on Comerio at all, but on your sister.
Look here, it is all as orderly as a ceremony on
a feiita ! Comerio goes to her to-night, wins her
consent to leave the country with him, and exchanges
a white handkerchief With our Neapolitan
agent, who on Wednesday night will
pass it on to us, and from that moment you area
free man once more. Or, on the other hand,
Madame Merlin refuses her lover's suggestion
definitely, Comerio disappears from the scene,
having dropped a red handkerchief Avitli our
agent, and on Thursday you look your last on
this world. That is the matter in a nutshell,
signor.'

Carlo's heart gave a bound, then a cold chill
ran through him ; he had indeed grown pretty
well accustomed to the idea of possible violence
at the hands of Comerio ; he knew the Corsican's
nature too well to expect him to behave, for
instance, like an Englishman or an American ;
but, although lie had never ])cen lacking incourage,
it appalled him to think that for two

days and two nights he must wait in this dismal
cell, and at the end of the time be murdered in
cold blood. Yet what was the other alternative ?
Either Anita must live in sin, or he must die 
there was no escape from the dilemma I To
desire his own life meant that he desired her
moral death ; to pray for his own safe-keeping
meant that he prayed for her ruin. And yet he
clung to life with the strong natural instinct of
a healthy man. Only a few weeks ago all had
been hard and dreary for him ; but now, with
Francesca his own once more, with the prospect
of fame sweetened by her loving sympathy',
with health and vigour, and all the ardent
desires of youth, how Alas it possible for him
to be willing to be done to death in tins
dismal catacomb ?

After all, under the circumstances, woidd it
be such a sin on xVnita's part ? Was not Merlino
ill-tempered enough to excuse such a step? Were
not his own notions about marriage old-fashioned
as Sardoni had alway's declared ? Thoughts such
as these just glanced through his mind, yet gave
him but a momentary struggle, because the life

lie had lixcd fur tho last tlireo years ina<l> liii
on tills ])()in< ]practically inviilnoraldo. Tho real
aii t,niisli l.iy in illic IcnipJalion to put Fi-anoof-ca
above everything  above his conscience, above
his sense of honour and duty. How could he
desire that which must condemn hw to grief
and loneliness, which nnist cause her che most
cruel of shocks and blight her whole life ? It
was the old, old story of the innocent suffering
for the guilty, of the strong bearing the burden
of the weak, and his mind revolted from the
thought of sorrow visiting the Moman he; loved
best ; he turned in horror from the apparent
injustice of the law of life.

But while ho lay there face downwards on
the heaji of shavings in dumb, hopeless anguish,
there came to him all at once the strangest
consciousness that, although he was chained,
fettered, and guarded,  a most helpless prisoner,
not even knowing where his underground cell
could be, yet that in his keeping lay Anita's
fate. Ke knew, as he knew the fact of his own
existence, that if he could not bring his will to
accept this thought of being murdered, neither

Avouch sho allow herself to ho snvod fi-boni wroiig-.
do'mg at the expense of his HlV. At this very
moment she, too, was probably wrestling with
(l(>arl]y temptation. Infer love for him so lately
awakened would impel her to save him at all
costs, Avhile Comcrio's power over her would he
increased tenfold by this devilish scheme which
had been so cunningly laid. Clearly the Corsican
was determined to win her, while, for the
time, Carlo had staggered under the blow dealt
him by his enemy, and was pausing, as men
must, to look the evil in the face, to count the
cost as they are distinctly told to do, that so
they may be ready for the worst.

Anita was even now making her final choice.
"Whatever the scientific or spiritual explanation
of the matter might be, he knew that there was
between them some direct power of influence,
some will-force, which made her decision depend
on his actual readiness for sacrifice. It was
clearly impossible that she should be saved by
a figment of the imagination  a mere belief in
his readiness. ITo must definitely desire that
she miiht be saved from Comerio, cost him

what it would, before-lie could be so influenced
by bis devotion as to choose what was
really right. It must be a living fact, nota
hazy illusion, which would save his sister.

And yet how could he desire that which would
bring bitter grief to Francesca, disappointment
to all his hopes of work in the world, a sudden
end to his career ? It would not even be a
beautiful and glorious death like his father's
or his grandfather's, but a miserable end like
some animal in a slaughter-house, a horrible,
degrading death in a den of robbers without a
single friend to comfort him, without one farewell
to those he loved ! And with that the tears
started to his eyes, for he saw once more the
carriage just outside the arsenal gates, he remembered
how Francesca had sjuilod at him for
the last time when he parted from her on leaving
the 3'acht, and recalled the bright hope Which
had thrilled in her voice as she spoke that
A ritcdcrci .'

'My God I' he cried, 'how can I be willing
to die ! It is more than man can bear ! '

Choking with emotion, and with a craving for

air, lie raised himself a little, tiiriiiiig' his face
instinctive' towards the light.

Apparently Lionbruno added to his character
of brigand the more peaceful callings of carpenter
and carver, and by some curious irony of fate
his carvings-severe almost all of them ecclesiastical
; in this secret retreat of banditti were to
bo found delicately-carved alms-boxes, destined
for some rich cathedral or church ; beautifully
designed rosaries, which might some daj' find a
home in the private oratory of a wealthy noble ;
and crosses by the dozen, because for them the
market was always good. Carlo was so much
accustomed to observe things carefully, that he
instinctively took-in all these little details, spite
of his grievous trouble. Lionbruno had set up a
couple of torches in a carved sconce, had lighted
a small lamp with a tin reflector, and, seated on a
stool beneath it, was Working with apparent laziness,
but with wonderful effect, on a crucifix. For
some minutes Carlo watched in silence the carving
of one of the pierced hands, then a flood of light
suddenly overpowered his darkness. AVas it more
than a man could bear, this that had come to him ?

He could lint-iil)mi<, no liraltliy Lucian
nature could suluiit, to objoctlcss pain or bloodless
sacrifice ; but could not lie, too, seek only
to do God's Avill and quietly take the consequences,
faciup world, and flesh, and devil, as the
Divine Man had done in the strength of dauntless
faith ?

Yes, he felt that it was possible. There was
in the very depths of his being something upon
which he could at Aill fall back, a strength
infinitely greater than this craving for the joys
of life, and love, and freedom ; stronger, too, than
that side of his love for Francesca, which made
him tremble at the thought of her grief and
loneliness.

Carlo Alas no theologian, probably he coidd
not have put into many-syllabled terms his own
firm belief, but he had the insight of a pure heart
and the vigour of one Who has always tried to
conquer his own weaknesses. In a very simple
and literal way he believed that God was his
Father, not in name only, but in very truth.
He knew that he, in common with every human
being, had it in his power to live as a son or as an

J

alien ; nd lie knew, by that hist sure proof, the
experience of claily life, that he eoiild only overdoing
the cravings of selfishness, by a constant
effort to conic into closer union With that life-giving
Spirit to whom he was truly akin, that
so his spirit might not starve, bnt grow and
(penelope.

The confusion, caused Ly physical weakness,
and the shock of finding himself at the mercy of
the merciless, began to fade, as he realised the
strength of that wisdom, and love, and peace,
which reigns above all the sin of the world, and
which is, in truth, ' taking it away ' by the
eternal power of love and sacrifice. He felt a
sort of surprise that only a few minutes ago the
struggle within him had been so desperate, the
revolt against his fate so vehement. After all,
what did it matter if, for a time, evil seemed to
triumph and might seemed to conquer right ?
Had it not always seemed to be so since the
beginning of the world ? And yet had not
good steadily advanced, triumphing through
apparent defeat ? Above all the anguish of his
grief, and pain, and loss, there came to him, as

there had often come during those three years,
a wonderful happiness, the pure delight of realising
the perfect will of God, and with his
whole heart trying to do it.

Looked at through this other atmosphere, the
future seemed less formidable to meet, though
not one whit less important. A wave of horror
passed over him as he realised what might be
happening at that very moment, and all thought
of self died Within him as, in terrible reaction, he
passed from the vision of perfect Purity and Love
to the thought of impurity and sin. In an agony
he prayed, willing now to die a thousand deaths
rather than that Anita should sink into this
black abyss, this hellish contradiction to all love
and light.

It mattered nothing to him that many would
consider his adhesion to Christ's law as to marriage
mere old-fashioned prejudice ; it mattered
nothing to him that the worldly-wise would say
he was throwing away his life for the sake of
keeping his sister from the infringement of a
conventional law. lie knew that it was not so.
For since it is the pure in heart who see God, it

is also the pure in heart who intuitively shrink
from evil, and realise without analysing the
hatefulness of impurity

So the night hours passed hy, and he prayed
unceasingly for Nita's safety.

It was not till morning that the thought of
his own position returned to him.

This must be Tuesday he reflected, as he
rose from his rough bed. ' To-morrow I shall
die.'

But the thought had lost its bitterness, for,
after all, death would mean victory.

CHAPTER IX.

ALL GOKTII BUT GOD's WILL.'

Wliatso it be, bows it be, Amen.

]Blessed it is, believing, not to see.
Now God knows all that is ; and we shall then,

Whatso it be.
God's Will is best for man whose will is free.

God's "Will is better to us, yea, than ten
Desires whereof he holds and weighs the key.

He knows all wants, allots each where and when,

Whatso it be.

CimiSTINA Rossetti.

You have passed u bad night, signor,' remarked
Lionbriino, glancing wp from this work
at the prisoner.

Carlo, who to the last retained his sense of
fun, saw the double meaning which the denmark
might bear, and smiled.

I have not slept,' he replied, ' And
you > '

'I?' said Lionbruno, shrugging his shoulders,

' have liacl to wake also, that I might keep
guard.'

'Do you think, then, that escape woukl be
possible in such irons as these ? '

'No, it would be impossible, even if the approach
to the upper air were not well guarded.
But it is one of Brancaleoue's laws that a prisoner
should be watched night and day. It would
have been irksome enough had I not turned you
to account as a model.'

The crucifix was now quite finished, and the
carver, struck by the face he had had to watch
through those long hours, had reproduced it in
the Avoid with marvellous accuracy, catching
precisely the expression of pain, with steadfast
hope underlying it, which the prisoner's face had
borne through the night.

The features, too, had been reproduced so
accurately that Carlo could not but recognise
himself. He looked shocked, then pained,
finally a faint smile dawned in his eyes, and
he fell into deep thought.

Lionbruno left him for u few minutes, returning
presently with a long loaf of bread

tucked under his arm, u flask of disant swinging
from his wrist, and a huge basin of macaroni
in his hands.

'Come,' he said, with rough good nature,
'let us eat. I am hungry if you are not.'

In silence they shared the food. The cell
was now only lighted by one torch, which cast
an orange glow over the carved crosses and
crucifixes, and shone upon the faces of the two
strangely-contrasted men. Carlo, worn-out withall
he had gone through, looked pale and exhausted,
but Ijionbruno was in no wise fatigued
by his want of sleep, and ate with the voracious
appetite of a schoolboy. Carlo watched him with
a good deal of curiosity, wondering greatly what
his history could be.

Where did you learn to carve like that ? '
he said at length, glancing once more at the
crucifix.

It was the one useful thing taught me at
school, the one thing I ever took the pains to
learn,' said Lionbruno, with a laugh. * And
when I had mastered all they could teach me,
Avhv, I ran away.'

Was it at Naples ? '

'No, at Rome,' continued Lionbruno, throwing
himself lazily on the heap of shavings, and
yielding to the fascination of Cai'lo's mannci-,
as most people did. ' Diaroh ! what did I not
suffer in those years ! Cooped up in a great stone
building, watched every moment, guarded as
though I had been a girl, and nothing to hope for
in the future but the wretched life of a priest.'

A priest ! ' echoed Carlo, in astonishment.

A}', a preposterous notion, was it not ? A
mere whim of my mother's,  peace to her soul.'
He crossed himself with indescribable rapidity'.
It was the last almost unconscious tribute he still
paid to the faith which his mother had held, butin
which he himself had ceased to believe. * My
father, willing to please her on her death-bed,
promised that they should make a priest of me,
and he did his best ; but what would you have ?
It is not possible to turn a wolf into a sheep-dog,
or an eagle into a canary. I bore it till I was
seventeen, then, one night,'  he rubbed his hands
with glee at the mere recollection,  ' one delightful,
moonless night, the happiest in all my life,

VOL. IT I. R

I broke loose from the fold, got a disguise, was
within an ace of being caught, and at last got
home to Corsica, half-starved, but free, and as
happy as a king.'

Then Corsica is your home ? '

Insomnia ! I have run on, forgetting that
possibly you will be free again tomorrow, and
may betray vis.'

lie looked annoyed, and half-inclined to be
angry.

Do not be uneasy,' said Carlo. ' This is
my last day in the world, and even did I
wish to do so I could not possibly betray
your haunts.'

You seem to look death in the face calmly'
enough; but it is far more likely that you
will be set free.'

Carlo shook his head.

If I were set free it Avould mean lliat
my whole life had failed. Something tells
me that is not so. Therefore, you see, I
must face the thought of death. And, while
we are speaking of it, just tell me how it
will be. Am I to be shot?'

Ijionbi'uno's great black eyes were full of
wonder, they were very much like the eyes
of some annual. He was completely puzzled
by his companion, and somehow awed by him.

''No,' he said; 'that could not be, here.'

'What then, stabbed?'

Lionbruno shook his head.

'Poisoned, or perhaps hung?'

Again the young brigand made a gesture
of dissent ; then, with unmistakable meaning,
he drew out his knife, and passed it lightly
across his own throat, glancing significantly
at the prisoner.

Carlo had too vivid an imagination not
to shrink a little from the picture which presented
itself to his mind ; he grew suddenly
cold, and felt a strange stirring in his heart,
and a tightening about the muscles of his
throat. But he quickly recovered himself,
and, with no perceptible effort, returned to
the interrupted story.

And so you escaped from your school-life,
and from all espionage. At first it must
have been delightful.'

Diu ! I should think it was ! ' exclaimed
the boy. * To be out iu the woods night and
day, to have done with the hateful old routine,
and for M-ork to have nothing but adventure
and excitement  why, it was paradise I '

I fancied all the banditti had been captured
at the time of the great extermination,' said
Carlo.

Lionbruno's face grew dark.

'That time gave us a blow from which
we shall never recover,' he said. ' But my
father somehow baffled all detection, and he
will alway's baffle it, for he is more than a
match for the Italian police in a body. Nothing
but treachery could possibly beat him, and
among the whole band there is not one man
who would betray him, though they offered
him his weight in diamonds.'

I can imagine that he would always meet
with obedience and loyalty,' said Carlo, recalling
the powerful face of the chief.

'Anywhere he would be king of men,' said
Lionbruno, proudly. ' And since the world
gave him the cold shoulder, he must be king

of banditti. Did you hear but a month or
two back of the highway robberies in Corsica?
They were planned and carried out by Branch
Do you remember how Count Feroni
was carried off in Sicily, and kept up in the
mountains till the ransom was paid? That
again was due to Brancaleone. And the great
jewel robbery in Naples, that, too, was the
work of our band. We are like the lightning,
here, there, and everywhere ; our work is done
in a flash, and then  j}redo ! all is darkness
once more, and no one can lay hold of us.'

'I remember now hearing of the disappearance
of Count Feroni,' said Carlo ; * though
the details Avere never published, perhaps for
the sake of our country's honour. Do you
know what that work of yours did? It killed
the Count's mother; she died of the shock before
his return.'

'Ebhciicf we must all die sooner or later,'
said Lionbruno, coolly.

There was an indignant light in Carlo's eyes
which made the young Corsican shift his position
uneasily.

'And this work of yours yesterday,' continued
Carlo ; * it will not only end in murder it
will break hearts, and blight lives. "Will you
be proud of doing such devil's work as that?'

'A man must live,' said Lionbruno, gloomily.
I only do what I was brought up to do. As
to cruelty, Brancaleone Avoid not have the
hold which he has on the hearts of the people
were he a cruel chief. No prisoner has ever been
ill-used by him, and if a man must be put out of
the way, why, it is done promptly and without
barbarity. The day for such things is past ; we
too, are civilised, our plots are more refined, as
well as more successful, now that we have the
telegraph always at our command,'

Carlo started.

Do you mean, then, that the telegram I had
yesterday was jour doing? "Was it a mere
trick?'

Lionbruno laughed, and rubbed his hands together.


'Was it not clever? The first idea was a
note of invitation from the English Captain ;
but then there would have been the danger of

the handwriting not being right. The telegram
Alas my notion, and the sending it in English
made it doubly safe ; it was only because I had
thought of it that I was given the charge of the
whole affair, for, after all, I am young for such
work. Dio ! what sport it was ! The watching
for the yacht, and dogging your steps everywhere,
while all the time -ou were so happily ignorant ;
then the breathless race to Pozzuoli to send the
telegi-am, and the anxiety of the afternoon when
we did not know whether, perhaps, you might not
after all refuse to go. How happy I was when I
saw 3'ou by the Grotto of Posilipo ! And you, too,
looked happy. Ah, I shall never again have a
better bit of sport ! '

Carlo shuddered, the blushing avowal made
him recoil as from some hellish thing. He did
not say a word, but Lionbruno noted his expression,
and never forgot it.

Come ! ' he said, his tone suddenly changing,
I can't stay all day in this dull hole. "NVc Avill
sec what the others are up to."

'Can I not stay here in quiet?' pleaded
Carlo.

But Lionbnino was inexorable. A prisoner
must be watched day and night, and Carlo had to
endure as best he could the long hours of that
weary day, while his young guard whiled away
the time with cards, mora, and idle jesting with
the elder men of the band.

At length night came, and once more prisoner
and gaoler made their way through the winding
catacomb to the inner cell. Lionbruno, who had
slept at intervals through the day, took up his
carving once more, and Carlo, wearied with the
noise and confusion which for so many hours he
had had to bear, and still suffering from the
effects of the blow he had received, stretched
himself again on the heap of shavings.

My last night,' he reflected, then, turning to
the young Corsican, asked what time the messenger
-vA'ould arrive the next day.

Possibly not till midnight,' replied Lion-bruno,
pausing in his work to look at the
prisoner ; ' but you will be placed in readiness
at eleven. After all, I would as soon not see you
murdered, though I know you think me a sort of
devil.'

I think you nothing of the kind,' said
Cuz'lo, with a vigour of denial which startled
his companion. ' The pity of it is that you area
man, meant for something very different, and
yet willing to do the devil's work.'

I am only taking by force the share of property
that the world won't give me fairly,' said
Lionbruno, dogged'. ' If all things were equally
divided there would be no need of banditti. As
for your devil, I don't believe in him, nor in
your God either ; and that, too,' he pointed to the
crucifix, ' it is all a fable ! If it were true, wh}%
instead of passing a hundred lire for a carving-like
this, to put in a private oratory, men would
be dying on crosses themselves ! '

Lionbruno, with his school recollections, and
his angry bias against everything connected with
the Church, would certainly have had the best of
it in an argument, but Carlo was too well accustomed
to living with people who despised all
that he most revel-ed, to feel moved to speak ; he
had learnt long ago that, as a rule, words do but
stir up strife, and that he at any rate must keep
to deeds. He was quite silent now, and through

the long, quiet hours the vehement words that
had Last sounded in the cell kept ringing in his
ears. Partly from the strain of physical and
mental suffering, partly from a growing sense of
nearness to the unseen world, he had all along
found it very hard to realise his surroundings ;
the old Roman building, hidden away below the
earth's surface, the winding catacomb, the gloomy
little cell with the carvings leaning against the
rocky wall, all seemed to him more like scenes
that he had read about than actual places where
he was now living. Brancaleone, too, and his
followers, seemed to him like people in a dream
that is over, though he had listened all day to
their foul talk, and wearied of their noisy quarrels.
But something in the words which his companion
had last spoken roused him to a greater
feeling of reality ; he made an effort to realise
to himself the sort of life that this mere boy of
eighteen was living, and the more he realised it
the more he pitied him, and the more he felt
drawn to him. Again and again his eyes turned
to the dark, resolute, handsome face of the young
Corsican ; it had not yet acquired the cold

wickedness of Brancaleone's face, it Alas too
Yoiiiig and boyish for that, too full of mere
animal delight in existence ; but another year or
two of this wild life would make him merely a
younger and more headstrong edition of his
father.

You do not sleep, signor,' observed Lion-bruno,
looking up from his work as the prisoner
moved restlessly and the dismal sound of clanking
irons echoed through the quiet cell.

They say a condemned prisoner always
sleeps well on his last night,' said Carlo ; ' but I
never felt more Wakeful in my life.'

Then tell me your story,' said Lionbruno,
for it is dull enough with nothing to do but
keep guard. I told you of my life yesterday,
now tell me of yours.'

Cavilling to please his companion, and with a
feeling that on this his last night it would comfort
him to go once more over his memories of
the past. Carlo told in his spontaneous, graphic
fashion the story of his life, and Lionbruno
listened with rapt attention, partly because the
prisoner was a good raconteur, but chiefly because

he was conscious of something which was a
most novel contrast to anything he had yet come
across in the world. It was nothing but a shuns
of facts which Carlo gave him, but Lion-bruno
was artist enough to have a quick eye for
beauty, and a capability of reading between the
lines, as it were, while the mingled openness and
reserve of the story, the lack of self-consciousness,
yet the innate modesty of the speaker, forced him
to perceive a new idea.

His own words returned to him,  ' If it were
true, men would be dying on crosses themselves I '
Then he looked from the carved crucifix to the
face of the prisoner, and again back to the
crucifix. After all, was it something more than
u fable ? Deep down in his heart there wakened
a new, uncomfortable, xinM'elcome conviction,
which he did his best to smother, because he
saw that it would work havoc in his life, and
Lionbruno in this respect was as lazy and conservative
as most people ; a revolution in society
was what ho longed for, but a revolution in his
own heart and life could not be tolerated, the
bare idea made him feel as uncomfortable and

perturbed as a wealthy landowner who thinks with
dread of a possible reform of the land laws.

All the next day he was markedly civil to his
prisoner. He even sacrificed himself so far as to
remain in the dreary little cell, instead of insisting,
as before, on spending the time with the rest
of the gang. Carlo spoke little, for grief and
suspense and the long - continued sleeplessness
had brought him almost to the last stage of
exhaustion, but what few words he did say Avere
courteous and pleasant, and in tone not otherwise
than cheerful. Lionbruno began to think more
and more distastefully of the scene that would be
enacted that evening, and, as the time drew near,
he could bear it no longer, but summoning one of
the elder men to keep guard in his place, sought
out the chief and begged to speak alone with
him.

Brancaleone led the way from the glooms'
underground retreat to the open air. Already it
was dark, but here and there, through the thick
foliage, were little spaces through which stars
gleamed down coldly. Lionbruno gave a gasp
of relief as he found himself once more aboveground,

for the atmosphere down below was nota
little trying to one accustomed to an out-door
life.

'Padre m/'o,' he said boldly, 'should the red
flag be sent to-night, why should you not keep
the prisoner longer and make money out of him ?
He has rich friends, he is a popular singer,
thousands would be interested in his fate, we
could extort an enormous ransom.'

Is that all you have to say?' said Brancaleone,
with scorn. 'Did you ever know me go back
from my word ? If Comerio is true to his bargain,
do you think I shall play him false?'

At least I have some right to speak for the
prisoner since I was the one who took him,' said
Lionbruno, with deep resentment in his voice.

No right whatever,' said the chief, coldly ;
you are merely one of my band ; your duty is to
obey orders, not to think.'

I tell you,' said Lionbruno, with an angry
gesture, ' if you kill him you will regret it some
day. A man like that can't be murdered lightly.'

'What do you know about him?' said the
chief, tauntingly.

I know that he is the only true man I have ever
seen, while we are brutes  worse than brutes ! '
said Lionbruno, with passionate vehemence.

Brancaleone suddenly turned upon him and
grasped him by the shoulder. ' Say another word,
and you yourself shall be the one to cut his
throat ! ' he said in a voice that was none the less
furious because low and restrained.

"With a heavy heart Lionbruno followed the
chief back into the secret retreat, returning an
impatient oath to the teasing inquiries of the
other men, while he lighted his torch at the fire
before making his way through the catacomb.

Bring the prisoner in at once,' said the chief,
eyeing his son distrustfully.

Releasing Nicol from his post in the cell,
Lionbruno, still bearing the torch, came close to
the pile of shavings and bent down over the
prisoner.

I have tried to save you,' he murmured, ' but
it was all in vain. When I took you prisoner I
did not know what I know now. Give me your
pardon, signer. I would gladly undo the past,
were that possible.'

Carlo grasped his hand.

Undo it by breaking whh it and starting
afresh,' he said. * And, look, will you do one
thing for me ? '

Lionbruno made a gesture of assent.

See, to-daj', while you slept, I wrote this
letter ; if necessary you can read it, there is not a
line in it that can betray you. Promise me when
I am dead to send it. I have no stamp, but there
is the address.'

Lionbruno glanced at the note, saw that it
was directed to 'Miss Britton,' and without
further comment thrust it into his pocket.

Brancaleone orders you to be brought in,' he
said, huskily. ' Are j'ou prepared, signer ? '

Quite,' replied Carlo, standing up, and speaking
as calmly as though no terrible ordeal awaited
him.

And yet it was not that he shrank from it less
than other men wovdd have done ; he looked
regretfully round the little gloomy cell, and
slowly followed his guide through the winding
catacomb and out into the larger building, perceiving
even then the picturesqueness of the scene

Avitli its deep shadows and glowing torchlight.
Brancaleone sat smoking as composedly as though
no murder were contemplated that night ; close
by, Nicol stirred the contents of a caldron
which hung over a charcoal brazier, while the
rest of the men were playing cards and quarrelling
among themselves. The chief turned his
cold eyes on the prisoner.

'My messenger may arrive any time within
the next houi',' he said. ' You will therefore be
ready for your fate, Whatever it may be. Should
we have been betrayed, and should a rescuing-party
be sent with him, you will instantly be
shot. Should you see him wave a white handkerchief,
it will mean that you are free ; should
he wave a red one, you will feel the sharpness of
this knife.'

Carlo replied only by a slight gesture. His
dignity appealed to Brancaleone, who eyed him
curiously, knowing that never before had he
met With such a prisoner.

Rocco ! Maso ! take your places ! ' ho called
peremptorily'.

Two of the men instantly threw down their

VOL. III. s

cards ; and Carlo found himself taken to that end
of the buildings which was farthest from a dark
archway, presumably leading to another catacomb,
and from thence to the upper air. On
either side of him stood a ruffianly-looking Neapolitan,
with a loaded pistol held within a few
inches of his temples ; and to the right hand,
and a little in advance of the others, sat the
chief ostentatiously sharpening his knife. It
was an ordeal that would have tried the strongest
nerves ; the horrible, grim susjicnse of it was a
torture such as Carlo had never conceived ; and
nothing but long practice in self-control could
have enabled him to keep under the sickening
anticipations of the butchery that was soon to
take place. With a strong effort he turned from
such thoughts, not even allowing himself to
watch the dark archway opposite, where his
imagination kept picturing a confusion of red
tokens and white tokens, until he was as much
dazzled as Gigi used to be over the Pears' soap
puzzle in England. With a pang he remembered
that he had never said good-bye to the
little fellow ; and a hundred trifling recollections

of unfinished work lushed tbroiigli his brain,
till a flash of Brancaleone's knife in the torchlight
recalled him to the terrible present. Then
he fixed his eyes steadily on the cross which
Lionbruno Alas carving, and again the thought
of his visible surroundings faded.

By-and-by came visions of what lay beyond
this hour of torture. He thought of the evil
defeated, of Anita saved for ever from Comerio's
influence. He pictured to himself how she would
pass unscathed through her hard life, with Gigi
to shield her, with Francesca to comfort her and
cling to her for his sake, with a love for him
which should be an actual safeguard, not a vague
regret. But with the thought of Francesca,
there came once more the wild clinging to life.
She would be his, indeed, in another Avorld ; but
he craved for her now, he shrank back from the
parting  the unknown change.

For, reason about it as we may, all endings
are hard. We ended our schooldays regretfully,
and shrank a little from stepping out alone into
the fuller and freer life, for which all along we
had been preparing. It was not that home was

less dear; it Alas not that vre were less eager to
begin life ; it was only that human nature cannot
say the irrevocable * never again ' without a pang.

And, after all, the past had been happy, spite
of all the troubles. Standing there, face to face
with death, he seemed to live it all through once
more. He thought of his quiet childhood, of his
mother's devotion, of his happy betrothal. Once
more he lived through the story of his love for
Francesca, with its brief gleams of rapture and
its long years of wearing separation ; once more
he lived his art-life  triumphed in this character,
failed in that, faced abuse on and off the stage,
felt the glow of genuine success. And again
he lived through the pain and bliss of that
night at Genoa, with its violent reaction, its
rapture of faithful love ; again he felt Francesca
clinging to him, heard her words of perfect trust,
knew that the anguish of the past had been a
mere device of Satan.

But Brancaleone moved, and the torchlight
fell again on the cold steel blade. In a few
minutes there must come that awful helplessness,
that violence, and anoiiish, and slaughter. His

heart throbbed wildly ; and once more, to calm
himself, he turned his eyes to Lionbruno's cross.
The boy's words returned to him, ' As to that, ita
mere fable ! If it were true, men would be
dying on crosses themselves ! '

'How little I have done to prove that
it is truest truth, and no fable,' he thought,
sadly.

'Yet for these last three years you have
honest' tried to follow me,' said a Voice in his
heart. And the words of comfort brought him
a great gladness, for he knew that, slowly and
stumblingly, and with an amount of effort that
proved his own weakness and the strength of the
Divine help that had been his, he really had tried
to live the life of the Crucified, with its whole-hearted
seeking of the Divine will. After all,
was any happiness to be compared to the happiness
that came to him even in this last extremity?
Was there not a deep truth in the
poet's idea that the Divine will is sweetest to us
when it triumphs at our cost.'

If ever a man were ready to die it is that
man,' reflected Lionbruno. 'But, Corpo lU Bacco I

how shall I sit patiently by and see him murdered
! '

He shuddered, and yet something in the
beautiful, manly face raised him above the
thought of the scene of bloodshed. How was it
that this man, in the first flush of youth and
strength, could willingly give up everything 
even life itself  to save another from sin ? How
was it that he could stand for an hour face to
face with a most horrible death, yet show neither
fear, nor resentment, nor bravado  only a noble,
intrepid calm ?

Into the brigand's semi cultivated mind the
sight flashed something more than the unwelcome
conviction of the previous night. All his shallow
unbelief died in the light of that revelation. It
was not that he now believed there as a God, he
hncw it ; he knew that the Son of God must indeed
have taught men how to live and die ; he saw that
he had before him, on the one hand a proof of the
heights to which men could rise who followed at
all costs the guidance of the Holy Spirit ; on the
other of the depths to which men could sink who
sought at all costs their own pleasures.

When at length a voice in the distance spoke
the password, every one present started slightly.
Carlo drew himself up to his full height, and
looked steadily towards the dark archway ; Branch
rose, and, with one hand on his victim and
the knife in the other, glanced over his shoulder,
ready either to strike or to forbear ; Lionbruno
dropped his cross, and glanced in groat agitation
from the archway to the prisoner, and back again
to the archway. The footsteps drew nearer ;
the messenger suddenly turned the corner, and
emerged into sight ; the torchlight fell on the
token in his hand  was it white or red ? With
a gasp of relief, Lionbruno sprang forward and
seized the handkerchief, waving it joyfully in the

air ; while the messenger advanced and handed a
sealed packet to the chief, who at once sheathed
his knife and turned to the prisoner.

You are free, signer,' he said gravely.

Nita is ruined ! I have failed ! ' thought
Carlo.

The sharpest pang he had ever had to bear
shot through him ; and, without a word, he fell
to the ground.

'Diavolo! exclaimed the chief. 'I have
often seen a prisoner overcome on hearing his
death - sentence, but never yet on getting a
reprieve ! '

Lionbruno looked with many conflicting feelings
at the face which had grown so familiar to
him. * Per quanto c hero Dio ! ' he remarked,
with an expressive gesture, 'he really did then
care more for his sister's honour than for his own
life ! '

CHAPTER X.

AT PALAZZO FORTI.

Love is enough : ho, ye who seek saving
Go no further ; come hither ; there have been Who have

found it,
And these know the House of Fulfilment of Craving ;
These know the cup with the roses around it ;
These know the World's Around and the balm that hath

bound it ;
Cry out the World leadeth not, " Love, lead us home ! "

He leadeth, He hearkened. He cometh to forward ;
Set your faces as steel to the fears that assemble
Hound his goad for the faint, and his scourge for the

f reward ;
Lo ]pis lips, how with tales of last kisses they tremble !
Lo his eyes of all sorrow that mayn't dissemble !
Cry out, for he leadeth, " Love, lead us home !"'

William Morris.

Ox that Monday evening, after Carlo had started
for Casa Bella, Nita dined alone, Gigi hovering
round, and always ready to accept promiscuous
mouthfuls off her plate like a pet dog. When
the child had gone to bed, she sat down to the
piano, her lingers roaming over the keys, and

playing a sort of subdued accoinpaniracnt to her
reverie.

I am going to turn over a new leaf,' she
thought to herself ; ' it is after all rather pleasant
to be good, and not so hard as I thought. I
have enjoyed these days on the yacht with
the Brittons ; it was not half so dull as I expected.
There was something so peaceful and
quiet about it. I think I'm tired of being
naughty. Now I'll be like Carlo ; that will bea
novelty.'

She was interrupted by the entrance of the
servant with a visitor's card. Holding out her
hand for it carelessly, she glanced down at the
name and saw that it was Comerio's. A terrible
fear seized on her.

Say I do not receive to-night. I am engaged
not well ! ' she exclaimed, breathlessly.

The servant retired, but in another minute
came back still bearing the card, on which Comerio
had pencilled a few words.

You must see me on a matter of life and
death!'

Nita's colour chime and went, but to refuse

now seemed to her impossible, and the next
minute she was alone with her lover. Yet, after
all, did she love him or hate him ? Of one
thing only she was conscious  that with all her
heart she feared him, and that over her he had
some strange, deadly influence.

How can you dare to come here ! ' she cried,
passionately. * Did I not tell you I would never
speak to you again ? '

Comerio smiled.

I come because I love you,' he replied ; ' because
I knew you would not keep to your threat ;
because, happen what may, I will never give you
up. I have waited for you all these years, Nita,
but now you will be mine.'

Never ! ' she cried, vehemently ; and, with a
groaning sense of terror, she tried to pass him and
reach the door.

Do not speak too hastily,' he said, intercepting
her ; ' you are altogether in my power.
Your brother has thwarted me for long; now
it is my turn. If you wish him to die, to be
murdered for your sake, you will refuse to come
with me. If you wish to save him you will leave

Naples with me to-night ; we will fly to Australia
and begin our new life there ! '

Oh ! it isn't true,' sobbed Situ ; * it can't be
true ! Carlo could never be in your power ! '

*Not true?' said Comerio, with a mocking
laugh. ' It is as true as the Gospel. Do you
think the Pozzuoli road is so much frequented
that I couldn't have him waylaid? I tell you
his fate rests in your hands. Now choose I '

You must be a fiend ! ' sobbed Nita. ' Only
a fiend could make such a plan ! '

A fiend or a lover,' said Comerio. * All is
fair in love and war, Nita, and I love you  I love
you,  and I Avill have you. You shall not deny
me ! '

Again the old subtle influence crept over ]Poor
Nita's tempest-tossed heart ; it needed only half
an hour of Comerio's impassioned pleading to
break down all her resolutions. After all, her
life was hard and weary, and her husband rough
and overbearing, and goodness was dull, and this
scheme was exciting ; besides, it would save Carlo
Carlo, M'honi she really loved. Yes, she would
save him at all costs ; she, too, would be self-sacrificing

 slice would give up everything to save
him from death.

It was all over very quickly  the dispute, the
struggle, the promise,  then once more she was
alone with but a few hours in which to make all
arrangements for her flight, for Comerio had
promised that a carriage should be in waiting
for her at twelve o'clock, and had hastened off
to sec that all his plans were in working order.
He had absolute confidence in his own power
over her, which was indeed great ; but there was
another Power which he had forgotten to take
into account  a Power which could no more be laid
hold of, and shut up with Carlo in the brigands'
retreat, than the wind.

He shall not die for my sake ! ' sobbed Nita
to herself ; ' I "will save him b} yielding. And
yet  yet it is what he would say was wrong ; he
would call it doing evil that good might come.
Oh ! what am I to do ? Why did I ever see
Comerio ? '

She was like a poor terrified bird in a cage,
flying now to this side, now to that, but meeting
always with hard, impassable bars. The temptation

to escape from her distasteful life, into a life
that was new and untried, was terrible. And yet,
as in sick recoil she looked at her past, there
shone out in it always one bright light. A hundred
little details of Carlo's care for her flashed
back into her mind ; scenes rose up before her in
the green-room, at rehearsals, in desolate lodgings,
on tedious journeys ; and always he was there asher
helper, the one perfectly reliable man in her
Avorld. He had given up all to save her from
sin. Should she now yield to the temptation ?
Dared she delude herself into thinking that she
sinned to save him from death ? Had not his
whole life proved to her that he woidd rather die
than that she should so fall ? Sobbing and trembling
she threw herself on her knees, crushed
beneath that awful realisation of a decisive choice
which must be made, maddened by the consciousness
that time was passing, tossed to and fro in
the storm of deadly temptation. It was not the
breaking of a conventional law which she was
contemplating ; it was not a mere offence against
society with which she had been dallying all
these years ; it was a sin. And the full meaning

of that word broke on lier as she knelt there.
Sin was not a vague * something ' to be comfortably
confessed and disposed of ; it was a contradiction
of good, which must work its deadly
course, inevitably bringing grief, and pain, and
hardship on the innocent and loving. To save
her from this sin Carlo had sacrificed his whole
life ; could she let that sacrifice be in vain ?

And, after all, was it love which Comerio
offered her ? Could she name it in the same
breath with the love which had shielded and
guarded her through those three years ? No ; it
was a hateful, vile counterfeit of love, a ghastly
jDarodj' of the truth, a veiled selfishness, which
could only drag her down to hell on earth.
Carlo would die a thousand deaths rather than
let her sink to this ! And was it even now too
late to save him ?

In wild excitement she sprang to her feet.
Comerio, in the heat of the moment, had let
something fall about the Pozzuoli road? Why
should she not rush to Casa Bella and prevent
her brother's return, and save him from the
attack that had been planned ? "What gave her

strength for this desperate resolution she hardly
knew, but the thought itself seemed to lend her
savings. She rushed to her bedroom, snatched up
a cloak and bonnet, drew a veil over her face,
and, without even pausing to close the door of
the house behind her, crept down the long
stone staircase. The concierge was reading La
Campania as she glided past his little office ; he
was so much absorbed that he never even saw
her.

And now she was actually in the street, and,
for the first time since her resolution had been
made, a feeling of fear and perplexity overwhelmed
her, her brain seemed to reel. ' Holy
Virgin, protect me ! ' she sobbed, and walked on
blindly, too much terrified to form any clear plan
of action. All at once she caught sight of a disengaged
carriage, and signed to the driver to stop,
lie looked at her suspiciously, but she was far
too miserable to resent that.

Drive to Pozzuoli,' she said ; ' to Casa Bella.*
The man, however, grumbled. It was late, a
long drive, his horse was tired. Nita thrust two
gold coins into his hand.

Go I go ! ' she cried. ' Another if you will
drive must ! '

Tien she leant back in the carriage and
covered her face with her hands, trembling in
every limb, expecting each minute that Comerio
would find out all and pursue her. The drive
seemed endless, but at last Casa Bella was
reached ; she sprang out and asked eagerly for
Signor Donative

is not here, signora,' said old Dino,
looking at her curiously. ' He has not been
here at all.'

Nita gave a cry' that brought all the household
flocking into the hall. They took her into
the rose-room, and there gradually drew from
her the hole piteous story. Francesca, as she
listened, turned pale as death, but to endure a
moment's discussion or delay was to her impossible.
Before the Captain or Mr. Britton could
even recover enough from the shock to frame a
clear idea, she had left the room, had run bareheaded
out into the summer night, and was flying
to the telegraph-office. Panting, breathless, with
a weight of torturing fear at her heart, she }'et

vol HI. T

ran like the wind. Carlo was in terrible danger,
but slice might yet save him. The office was
still open ; she wrote without a moment's delay
the following words to the Chief of the Police :
Signor Carlo Donati was waylaid on the road
to Pozzuoli this afternoon and has not been
heard of since. The plot was arranged by the
singer Giovanni Comerio. Arrest him immediately.'


In the meantime, Comerio, little thinking of
the turn affairs bad taken, was making his
arrangements with the utmost calmness and
deliberation. First of all he went to Branch
agent, Who lived in one of the worst
quarters of Naples. Here he deposited the
white handkerchief, which had been the token
decided on, and the little packet of notes for
the payment of the brigand chief. Then he
gave his final orders about the carriage which
was to take them out of Naples ; and afterwards,
finding that he had yet some time to
spare on his hands, he went into a cajfc, whereto
fortify himself for the excitement of the evening,
he called for a bottle of champagne. As he

sat there at his little marble table, he thought,
with a smile, of the great success of his plans,
and a funny recollection came back to him of
the old daj's when he had lived at his father's
country farm. He remembered how he had
once looked out on a moonlight night, and had
become so absorbed in Watching the tactics of
a fox that he had not given the alarm to the
household. The animal had set his heart on a
fine hen which had gone to roost in an olive-tree,
and which, roused from her slumbers, was
watching the fox in deadly terror. He could
not reach her, but With deep cunning Avalked
slowly round and round the tree, the hen
following him with her eyes in a sort of deadly
fascination, till at last, from sheer giddiness, she
dropped, and was carried off in triumph. The
idea of punishing Donati and altogether outwitting
him was delightful, even more delightful
than the idea of winning Anita. But, after all,
he reflected, it Alas always so in this Avorld.
Right could make a sort of feeble resistance,
but in the end Might always triumphed, mind
really luck had been with him of late. His

London engagement lead been extremely successful,
while, to crown all, he had won enormously
at Monaco, and could well afford to
gratify both his love and his hate.

Sauntering out of the cafe, and still musing
over his good fortune, he was a little startled
when a passer-by thrust a note into his hand,
and walked rapidly on. He paused to read it
under a street lamp. It ran as follows : 

Signor Comerio, be warned by a friend,
and fly from Naples at once. You are in danger
of being arrested.'

Though capable, in order to gratify himself,
of a certain amount of rash daring, Comerio was
at heart a coward. He had a friend connected
with the police force, and did not doubt for a
moment that the warning came from him. He
knew that he had not a moment to lose. Still
the mere hatred of being baffled in his plans
induced him to risk a call at Palazzo Forti.
There was yet a chance that they might be able
to fly together, and now that all was known he
risked little more by making this final attempt.
Breathlessly he made his v/ay through the dusky

courtyard and up the long stone .staircase. To
his surprise, the door at the top Alas open. He
stole in and opened the door of the ante-room,
calling Anita in a low voice. He went into the
mila, but that, too, was empty and deserted. He
knocked at the door of the bedroom; that, also,
was tenantless. Then, with a faint suspicion
dawning in his mind that Nita had played him
false, he ground his teeth together, and flung
open the two remaining doors in the suite.
Possibly .she was with the child. Snatching up
a lamp from a table in the passage, he went
into the room to make quite sure that she was
not there,  looked with a sort of dumb rage at
Donati's various possessions which were strewn
about,  then walked up to the bed where Gigi
lay sleeping with both arms flung up on the
pillow above his head, and his ruddy-brown little
face the picture of sturdy peacefulness. Comerio
shook him by the shoulder.

"Where is your mother, child ?' he said in a
voice that terrified Gigi. 'Can't you speak ?' he
reiterated. ' Where is your mother ?'

I don't know ! ' sobbed the child.

Accident ! she has played me false I' cried
Comerio.

Then, suddenly holding his breath, he paused
to listen. Undoubtedly men's voices and footsteps
were approaching. Darting to the door,
he drew the bolt, then rushed across to the
window, flung it open, leapt out on to the
balcony, and disappeared in the darkness.

Gigi's first impulse was to draw the bedclothes
over his head and sob for very terror,
but some recollection of Carlo checked him, and
summoning uj) all his courage, he scrambled out
of bed, unbolted the door, and ran out into the
passage, calling now for Carlo, now for his
mother.

Strange men whom he had never seen before
were marching in and out of the rooms ; whether
to run to them or from them he hardly knew.

Here is a child ! ' exclaimed one of the detectives,
picking him up in his arms. ' Tell Uf, little
one, who is in the house ? '

Signer Comerio/ sobbed Gigi.

'Santo (Uai'olo ! where ?' exclaimed the man.
Gigi pointed in the direction of his room.

Through the window,' he said, with a rush
of tears.

For all answer, the man tossed him on to the
bed as though he had been an india-rubber ball,
and leapt out on to the balcony, while the rest
rushed downstairs to cut off the retreat below.

But their efforts were useless; Comerio had
got the start of them, and, with darkness to
favour him, found little difficulty in making his
escape from Naples.

While the Neapolitan police were still searching
high and low for him, he was steaming down
the Mediterranean, knowing that never again
could he dare to set foot in Ital', and baffled
both in his love and in his revenge.

If onl)'- I had had time to go again to
Brancaleone's agent, and change the white
token for the red, I could bear all else ! ' he
reflected.

But the white handkerchief remained just ashe
had left it with the sealed packet of notes,
and the true love had triumphed over the false.

At Casa Bella all was confusion, and, afterwards,
those fearful hours seemed to Francesca

like a long, hideous nightmare. She had vague
recollections of returning from the telegraph-office,
and seeing Clare and Kate bending over
Nita's prostrate figure ; of a discussion with her
father and Uncle George as to whether she
should drive in to Naples with them or not ; of
reaching Palazzo Forti in the dead of night, and
finding poor little Gigi sobbing and shivering ;
of driving home with him on her knee, and feeling
a sort of comfort in folding her arms round
him, and letting him talk on in his happy
ignorance ;  then, of two fearful nights and days,
while all Naples was searched, and not the
slightest clue as to Carlo's whereabouts could
be discovered. In the meantime, Nita lay in
the guest-chamber, and many times cacti da}-
both priest and doctor passed in and out.

Why do those men come so dreffl}' often ? '
asked Gigi, one day, turning to his friend and
playfellow, Sibyl, and forgetting for a minute
the sham-fight which was going on between
his two boxes of tin soldiers.

Why, Dino says your mother is dying,' said
Sibyl, her eyes dilating. ' But, oh ! Gigi, perhaps

I oughtn't to have said anything I Don't
tell the others I told j'ou ! '

But she caiif' said Gigi, emphatically,  
not until Uncle Carlo conies back I '

And so, while the elders of the household
lived through their terrible agony of suspense,
the two children, who were much thrown together
and left to their own devices in those
days, kept their own counsel as children do,
and waited gravely for Carlo's return.

CHAPTER XI.

AT f'ASA IPLI.A.

Too divine to be mistook.'

Milton.

Early on the Thursday morning Captain Britton
was roused from a short and uneasy sleep on the
sofa in his study by the sound of voices on the
staircase. He rose quickly, remembering that
Francesca had taken Miss Claremont's place in
the sick room, and that he had promised to be at
hand in case anything Alas needed.

How is Madame Merlino?' he asked, joins:
out into the hall, where Franzoni the doctor was
just taking up his hat and cloak.

Better for the time,' replied the doctor, * but
I doubt if she will last much longer ; the shock
has been too much for her, and this suspense is
the very worst thing. She has inherited her
mother's constitution, you see, and when the
heart is in question such a strain is killing work.'

Francesca moved away from the speakers that
she might hide her tears. A lamp which had
burnt for manj- hours stood on the table, gleaming
faintly in the early morning light. She
turned it out, glad to have some little trivial
household matter to attend to, and finding it, as
most women do, a relief in trouble.

Captain Britton went out With the doctor, not
sorry to escape for a few minutes from the burdened
atmosphere of his own house, and Francesca,
knowing that Father Cristoforo was with
Nita, lingered beside the open door, glad for a
fear minutes to be alone with her grief. The sun
had not }'et risen, but rosy clouds floated in the
soft, sheeny sky, and a delicious fragrance came
from the garden, which was all wet with dew.
Everything was still and peaceful, with the
restful calmness of dawn ; perhaps it unconsciously
influenced Francesca, or perhaps it was
mere exhaustion which quieted her throbbing
pulses. Certainly the sound of footsteps on the
road from Naples, which yesterday would have
made her heart leap into her mouth, scarcely
roused her nov. She just looked up AA-early, too

heavy-heaitt'd to hope an}- long-er. But .suddenly
the blood surged through her veins, and With a
loan cry she rushed forward.

Carlo I Carlo ! ' she sobbed, ' you have come
at last I '

Clinging to him in that first minute of rapture
she forgot all else, but a second glance at his
face reminded her of Nita, for he bore the look of
a man who has passed through terrible suffering,
and how much he knew of Comerio's plot she
could, not tell.

Carlino,' she said, tenderly, ' trj' and prepare
yourself for what I have to tell you.'

I am prepared,' he said, in the voice of one
whose work is over  one who knows that he has
failed.

"Who can have met you so early ? Oh,
Carlo, we have tried to take care of her, but
she is dying. She has been ill ever since that
Monday night.'

'Do you mean that Nita is here, with you?
that she is safe?' ho cried, eager hope dawning in
his eyes. Then, as she told him all, a light, such
as she had never before seen, shone in his face.

God has been very good to us,' lie said,
simply.

In a very few words lie told lier what had
happened to him, and then, while she went to
prepare Nita for his coming, he stayed below', receiving
the warm-hearted greetings of the Captain,
giving him a brief account of his imprisonment
and release, and thanking him with tears in
his eyes for having sheltered his sister. Somehow
the old patronising tone disappeared altogether
from the Captain's voice as he struggled
to reply.

Do sou thank us for what ice have done ? '
he exclaimed, with a choking sensation in his
throat, and forgetting altogether to fear what
people would say, forgetting even to regret iLc
connection with the stage. ' I wish it could have
been more. I wish I had stood by you in the
past. Carlo.'

As he thought of the insults he had heaped
on the Italian years ago the colour mounted to
his temples, and he would have given all in his
power to have had Once again the opportunity
which he had wasted.

But before anything more had passed between
them, Francesca came to summon Carlo to the
sick room, and not sorry to be free from the
Captain's questions and congratulations, he followed
her upstairs into a bedroom which he
knew must be her own. It touched him to
think that Nita should be in this place of all
others, with its indescribable air of purity, and
peace, and safety, with its English comforts, with
its girlish ornaments and pictures. The bed stood
facing the window, with its white, mosquito-curtains
drawai back, but he could not sec Anita,
for Father Cristoforo was bending over her.

'My daughter,' the old man was saying, in
his gentle, soothing voice, * be comforted. Our
prayers are heard. Try to take this joy calmly,
and as a pledge of your forgiveness.'

Then he quietly drew back and, looking with
loving reverence at his old pupil, signed to him
to take his place.

One glance at Anita's worn, weary face
showed Carlo that she was during. He took
both her outstretched hands in his, and bending
down kissed her again and ao-ain. She was

dying, but yet it was the sense that she was
safe which outweighed all else.

For a long time perfect silence reigned in the
room, then Nita spoke faintly.

'Why I liked the yacht,' she said, half
dreamily, ' was because you Avere all so good 
there was no temptation, I wanted to be good
only it was always too hard.'

Worn out, exhausted, and fearful, she had
none of that natural clinging to life which
Carlo had so lately felt.

I never understood that till now,' she said,
glancing at the crucifix which Father Cristoforo
held on the other side of the bed. ' But now
I see it all,  it is you that have made me see,
Carlino.'

His eyes filled with glad tears, and again he
kissed her reverently.

You will keep to the stage still,' she said,
after a time. ' Let me at least feel that I have
done that much for the profession. I've been
no credit to it myself, but you, Carlino  j'ou
went into it for my sake, and they will respect
you. You will not leave the stage ? '

No,' he said, turning his thoughts to the
future with an effort ; ' I shall not leave it.'

I should have liked to sing with you once
more,' she uninjured dreamily. * "NHien you
hold mc like that it makes me feel like Gilds.
I tried to put you out the lust time we sang
that scene,  it was at New York, don't 3'ou
remember, the night of Sardoni's benefit, and
I was cross because my white satin had got
some paint on it.'

My daughter,' said Father Cristoforo gently,
'you will wear yourself out with talking.'

No matter ! ' she said, with a little impatient
motion of the hand. ' I am dying  I shall die as
I please. Where is Gigi ? Let mc say good-bye
to Gigi.'

Francesca slipped out of the room and went to
find the child, bringing him in just as he was, in
his little nightshirt, and with his hair all rough
and disordered. She had told him that his mother
was very ill, and that he must be quiet, but in
the glad surprise of seeing Carlo he forgot all
else, and with a rapturous shout of ' zio cam''
sprang tuards the bed. Carlo took him in his

arms, trying to quiet him with kisses, and Nita
watched them sadly.

'Well, it is natural enough he should care
for you and not for me,' she said wistfully. ' I
never liked to be troubled with him.'

'No, no,' said Carlo quickly; ' he loves you, it
is only that he does not understand illness.'

And putting the child on the bed, he laid the
little fat brown hands in between the cold white ones.
Gigi looked at his mother "vvith wondering eyes.

Do you think he will have a voice ? ' she
asked. ' He surely will sing  I hope he will.
But don't let Merlino be unkind to him, promise
to care for him always.'

Always,' said Carlo. ' For your sake.'

And Francesca bent down and kissed her,
while the child, aware now that something was
wrong, listened wistfully.

I have been a bad wife,' moaned Nita, * and
a bad sister, and a bad mother. Oh, Gigi  my
Gigi  you must not grow like me ! Be good,
caring,  be good ! '

Yes, mamma,' said Gigi, simply.

With a sob she raised herself and caught him

VOL. III. u

ill her arms, but once more deadly faintness crept
over her, and she fell back unconscious.

Francesca took Gigi away to Sibyl, and by
the time she was able to return Anita had revived.
Father Cristoforo had thrown the window
wide open ; Francesca stole quietly across the
room and stood beside it, listening now to the
old priest's hushed voice, now to the birds in the
garden below ; the sun had risen, and sea, and
trees, and houses glowed in the roseate light, contrasting
strangely with the scene within. When
the last offices were ended there was a long
pause, broken at length by Anita's faint voice.

Why are the footlights out ? ' she asked,
impatiently.

Because the sun has risen,' replied Carlo,
smoothing back the fringe of dark hair from
her cold forehead,

I can't see,' she said, with a little shudder.

Then after a minute, losing consciousness of
the present, she sang just above her breath n
little snatch from Faust : 

Oh del del angels immortal!
Del ini guide con voilassu.

There was some thing inexpressibly touching in
the faint yet still beautiful voice; Carlo's breast
heaved and his eyes grew dim. Evidently she
was wandering  fancying herself back once more
in the old life.

Well ! it is over,' she murmured, ' and I'm
tired  it's a long opera ! How cold it is lying
on this draughty stage ! But Carlo will be
waiting with my cloak, he always thinks of me,
though I am so cross to him.' Then, her voice
rising to a cry, ' Carlino ! Carlino ! Come back I
Oh, God ! I have killed him  my sin has killed
him ! '

*I am here, Nita, close to you,' he replied,
bending over her, while Father Cristoforo held
the crucifix to her lips.

She came back to the present, and grew
calmer.

You see I never understood till you showed
me,' she whispered. ' Oh, Carlo ! how much you
have borne for me ! '

He held her more closely. ' Don't you understand
that I love you ? ' he said.

*Yet I wish that  T too  had loved!' she

gasped, in a voice so sad that Francesca's heart
ached for her.

After that she never spoke clearly again, only,
as Carlo listened intently to the last long-drawn
sighs, he caught one more faint whisper 

'Gesuf

Then he laid her down tenderly on the pillow,
and closed her eyes, and folded her hands over the
crucifix on her breast. The sun had fully risen,
and golden rays played about him as he moved.
Francesca noticed it, and would not draw down
the blind.

CHAPTER XII.

AFTERWARDS.

Man seeks pleasure and self  great unforeseen results
follow. Man seeks God and others and there follows
pleasure.'  Arnold Toynbee.

For the next two or three weeks the story of
Carlo and Anita was in everyone's mouth ; the
account of Comerio's vengeance, and the alarming
news of brigandage in the very environs
of Naples, created something like a panic, while,
as to Donati's share in the matter, opinions were
divided. Some called him a hero, some a fool,
others remarked cynically that in any case the
affair woidd be a good advertisement for him,
and that now, at any rate, he might be expected
to draw large houses.

Merlino, when he learnt all, made scarcely
any comment on what had happened. He merely
wound up the affairs of his Company, and announced
his retirement from the position of

Impresario. Only in regard to Gigi did he show
any sign of feeling.

'You'll be kind to the child, Yal?' he said,
as he bade his brother-in-law good-bye. ' I shall
stay in America for a few years till this scandal
has had time to fade in people's minds. But
you'll go to the school and see that Gigi is
all right, now and then; won't you?'

He shall be like my own child ! ' said Carlo,
warmly. ' His holidays shall always be spent
with us.'

People were surprised that the new baritone
fulfilled his engagement at the San Carlo that
summer. Some called him cold-blooded, others
called him brave and honourable, and both those
who praised and those who blamed flocked to
hear him. He went his way, as ever, with
straightforward simplicity, thinking of the past
with thankfulness and of the future with eager
hope.

'Carina,' he said, one afternoon, as he sat
beside Francesca in the familiar old belvedere
which had sweet memories for them both, 
Carina, here is work enough for mc for months

to come,  offers of engagements all over Europe.
Piale wishes to know which of them we are
pleased to accept.'

"We ?' she said, smiling and blushing.

You do not think I could go without you ? '
he exclaimed. ' You will not send me away-alone
? '

No,' she said, with deepening colour ; * I
don't think you would take enough care of yourself.'


Darling ! ' he said, drawing her towards him,
why should Ave wait any longer ? Let us be
married quietly while Mr. Britton and Clare are
still here.'

But they are only here for another week,'
said Francesca.

Ebhene V said Carlo, with a world of expression
in his tone.

'How could I be ready?' she faltered. 'A
wedding takes a great deal of preparation  certainly
Flora's did. I must at least have a dress
that is fit for your eyes to look on.'

If you want to dress to please me, I will tell
you what to wear,' he said, smiling. * Wear that

white dress like a baby's  the one you wore on
the night of our betrothal.'

That old nainsook ! ' she cried. ' Why,
Carlo, it is more fit for the rag-bag than for a
wedding ! '

He made one of his expressive Neapolitan
gestures.

*I should like nothing else so well, and you
will see it will wash and get up in two days'
time, and look as good as new. Oh, I am very
learned in such matters now, I assure you.'

She smiled, and nestled close to him.

I will wear anything to please you, mio
caro ! And, after all, we don't want to be thinking
of new dresses just now. All I want is to go
away from everything else for a little while 
away with j'ou. Let us go somewhere among
the mountains where there are no people and
no newspapers  nothing but just we two by ourselves
! '

He kissed her white forehead.

Carina,' he said, thoughtfully, ' if one did
not believe success to be a sort of sacrament, it
would frighten one.'

She mused over the old definition in the
Prayer-book, and caught his meaning.

They said at Merlebank it was useless
knight - errantry,' she replied ; * but I think
they changed their minds when they saw
the smile on Nita's face after all was over.
Do you remember what she said about those
days on the yacht ? It made me crj', for I
never saw till then how fearful temptation
must be.'

She conquered, and is at rest ! ' said Carlo,
steadying his voice with an efibrt. ' Father
Cristoforo told me he never knew one so young
who had so little clinging to life. It is as she
would have wished.'

For some time he was grave and silent ; his
mind was full of Nita's sad story.

'Does it not seem to you more than three
years,' he said at length, * since we last sat here
together like this ? To me it seems like a lifetime.'


'And, oh. Carlo,' said Francesca, clinging to
him, *I don't know how it is  but, though so
many sad things have come between, I can't help

feeling happier even than long ago ! I thought
I couldn't be happier than I was when you first
told me you loved me, here in this summerhouse,
 but now. Carlo ! . . . now ! . . .'

# * # *

So, one day in the following week, Francesca
put on the old white dress and her confirmation
veil, and Kate twined orange-blossom and myrtle
into a wreath, and Sibyl and Gigi gathered the
prettiest white flowers they could find in the
garden, and with infinite pains made them up
into a very original bridal bouquet. Then everyone
at Casa Bella drove in to Naples, where Carlo
awaited them with Enrico Ritter at his side ; and
presently, with Piale, Marionii, old Florestano,
and Sardoni and his wife, for spectators, the two
lovers were quietly married.

'After all,' said Captain Britton, when the
bride and bridegroom had driven away, ' though,
I suppose, a voice like that must be used, yet I
shall always think that Carlo deserved to be
something better than a singer.*

My dear sir,' exclaimed Piale, vehemently,
the life of a good singer is one perpetual course

of self-denial ! And, I assure you, we, too, have
had our heroes. Must a whole profession be
despised because some of those engaged in it
are not all they should be ? When a man like
Donati is sent to us, for Heaven's sake let us
keep him, and say, as in duty bound, "Adeo
Gratia ! " '

LONDON ;
Printed by Stranobwatb & Sons, Tower Street, Upper St. Martin Lriif.

Hues & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

LONDON:
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

t-

-i

MESSRS. HURST AND Blackest

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

THROUGH CYPRUS. By Agnes Smith, Author

of " Glimpses of Greek Life and Scenery," &c 1 vol. demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

Washington : "With Pictures op the Period in which She
Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Mollot, Author of " Court Life
Below Stairs," &c. Third and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo.
With Portrait. 6s.

SHHvAR SKETCHES: With Notes on Indian

Field Sports. By J. Moray Brown, late 79th Cameron Highlanders.
With Eight Illustrations, by J. C. Dolman, Rei. 1 vol.
small 4to. 10s. Gd.

A glorious book. It is palpably the work of a true sportsman."  Horse and Hound.
"The Sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy narrative,

and containing just those particulars that a sportsman wishes to know.'  Scotsman.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WAIFS. By John

AsHTON, Author of ' Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne,' &c.

1 vol. small 4to. 12s.

The matter contained in this book is always pleasing and instructive. There
is certainly not a dull page in the volume."  Globe.

CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walford, Mea., Author of 'The County Families, ' &c.

2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

' Chapters from Family Chests ' are a great deal more exciting and absorbing
than one half the professedly sensational novels''  Dais Telegraph.

"Mr. Walford's volumes abound in what is known as the romance of real life,
and are extremely interesting reading. "  Daili/ iVw/'.s-.

"There is a mine of wealth in the 'Family Chests' which no one has yet
brought to the surface, and from this Mr. Walford has contrived to excavate a
mass of acceptable matter  a treasury of narrative curious and romantic."  Globe.

"Thereafter will find much curious information in Mr. Walford's chapters of
agreeable narrative."  Scotsman.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev. C.

A. Wilkinson, Mea., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

2 vols. With portrait of the King. 21s.
An interesting book, entitled ' Reminiscences of the Court and Times of King
Ernest or Hanover,' has just been published by Messrs. Hurst and Blackett. The
two volumes in which these reminiscences of a septuagenarian are comprised
abound in characteristic stories of the old king, in anecdotes of many celebrities
English and foreign, of the early part of this century, and, indeed, of all kinds and
conditions of men and women with whom the author was brought in contact by
his courtly or pastoral office."  Si. James's Gazette.

NEW "W Ores Continued.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Rotlk,

Barrister at-Law, of Alexandria. 2 vols, demy 8vo. Illustrated

by Maps and Plans. sos.

"Mr. Boyle has done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe

not only the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with

it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards

mastering the difficult Egyptian question."  Athenaeum.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will acquit Mr. Boyle
of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding."  St. James's Gazette.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.

By Mrs. Florence Cadet. 1 vol demy svo. With Map of Route. 15s.
"The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon find himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests his attention and sustains the interest of her
subject" i/omin Post.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford: As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Milford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Milford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention."  Daily Tdegrapli.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference
to Patrick Branwell Bronze. By Francis A. Lei land. 2

vols. 21s.

"This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success."  Academy.

"Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he has spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family."  Graphic.

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company."  Times.

These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic."  Athenaeum.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Grey, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

"Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout"  Morning Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating."  Scotsman.

THE PALACE AND THE HOSPITAL; or,

Chronicles of Greenwich. By the Rev. A. G. L'Estranok,
Author of ' The Village of Palaces,' ' The Friendships of Mary
Russell Clifford,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. 2 Is.
"Mr. Estrange has provided for those who have a taste for topography, or
rather for the historical and biographical annals of a locality famous in history,
two volumes which are rich in romantic interest, and his pages abound incurious
and interesting glimpses of old manners 'daily yews.


NEW Works Continued.

THE REAL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Life. Bj' John Cord Jefferson, Autlioi- of " The Real Lord

Byron," " A Book about Doctors," " A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

"Those who have read Mr. Jefferson's account of Byron will be prepared to

find that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author has

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the truth concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of many."  Morning Post.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.
Vols. 1 and 2 demy 8vo. sos.
The work is likely to be of permanent value to the students of history"
Morning Post.

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Piraeus to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 illustrations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will brighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through its.
pages and its numerous illustrations."  Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 
1849. By the Count H. dTdeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. 308.
"This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of

the book will convince any reader of Bureau's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,

and his philanthropy and humanity."  Athenaeum.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Ones Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.

With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.
"A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest."
St. James's Gazette.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. Miss.
"Madame de Witt has done justice to her fathers memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the auhiect." Saturday Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance."  St. James's Gazette.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4t.o .la

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE SURVIVORS. By Henry Cresswell, Author

of " A Modern Greek Heroine," " Incognita," &c. 3 vols.
"There is cleverness in this book, and occasional brilliancy and wit''  Academy.
"An amusing comedy of modem life; there are some good situations and
striking episodes in the book."  Athenaeum.

A WICKED GIRL. By Mary Cecil Hay, Author

of " Old Myddelton's Money," &c. 3 vols.
"The author of 'Old Myddelton's Money' always manages to write interesting
stories''  Academy.

THE WOOING OF CATHERINE. By E. Frances

PoTNTEK, Author of " ]My Little Ladj-," &c. 2 vols.
"The figures are drawn with clear, bold strokes, each individual standing
before us with marked personality, while the backgrounds are effective and
striking" i!(rar!/ World.

ST. Travels. By Mary Deane, Author of

Quatrefoil," &c. 3 vols.

The authoress throughout writes with moderation and consistency, and her
three ample volumes well repay perusal" Z)ai7j/ Telegraph.

' St. Travels' is a story replete with variety, and in all developments of her
plot the author skilfully maintains an unabated interest."  Morning Post.

LUCIA. By Mrs. AUGUSTUS Craven, Author of

A Sister's Story." Translated by Last Herbert of Lea. 2 vols.

This is a very pretty, touching, and consoling story. The tale is as much above
the ordinary romance as the fresh air of the seaside is better than the shining atmosphere
of the fashionable quarter of the gayest city''  St. James's Gazette.

' Lucia ' is as good a novel as has been published for a long time" Academy.

LOVE, THE PILGRIM. By May Crommelin,

Author of " Queene," " A Jewel of a Girl," fee. 3 vols.
' Love, the Pilgrim ' is a pretty story, which, beginning quietly, develops into
one of very sensational incident indeed."  Graphic.
"A tale of thrilling interest"  Scotsman.

THE KING CAN DO NO WRONG. By Pamela

Sneyd, Author of " .Jack Urquhart's Daughter." 2 vols.

This novel gives evidence of imagination, insight into character, and power of
delineation."  Athenaeum.

Shows command of exceptional narrative and descriptive power  the story is
told with cleverness and force."  Scotsman

THE COURTING OF MARY SMITH. By F. W.

Robinson, Author of " Grandmother's Money," " No Church," &c.
3 vols.
"One of the finest studies that any of our novelists has produced of late years.
To read such a book is to strengthen the soul with a moral ionia"  Athenaeum.

"The book is full of the truths and experiences of actual life, woven into a
romance by an undoubtedly clever noyoViBi." Morning Post.

THRO' LOVE AND WAR. By Violet Fane,

Author of " Sophy : or the Adventures of a Savage," &c. 3 vols.
"thro' Love and War' has a succinct and intelligible plot, and is written
with a quaint combination of acute perception, veiled sarcasm, and broad fin,
which is certain to ensure for it a wide popularity" y/K World.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

KNIGHT-EEEANT. By Edna Lyall, Author of

Donovan," " We Two," " In the Golden Dajs," &c. 3 vols.

A DATELESS Bargain. By C. L. Pirkis,

Author of 'L;idy Lovelace," " Judith wynne," &c. 3 vols.

DRIVEN BEFORE THE Storm. By Gertrude

FoKDE, Author of " In the Old Palazzo," &c. 3 vols.

PASSAGES IN THE LIFE OF A LADY in 1814,

1815, 181fi. By Hamilton Aide, Author of "Rite," "Penrud-
locke," " Poet and Peer," &c. Second Edition. 3 vols.
Mr. Aide's new novel shows an accomplished and agreeable writer at his best.

The characters are not numerous, but the individuality of each is sustained all

through, both in speech and action."  Alienum.

Fauntleroy. By Anne Beale, Author of "Fay

Arlington," &c. 3 vols.
There is always a good tone in the novels of Miss Beale. ' Courtesy ' is no
exception to the rule."  Acmhmy.

"This is a really agreeable and wholesome siory.'' Literary World.

VICTIMS. By The Gift, Author of " Pretty Miss

Belle," " Il Lorimer," &c. 3 vols.
'Victims' is probably the best of its author's works: there is not a weak or
ill-drawn character in the book."  Academy.

TILL MY WEDDING DAY. By a French Lady.

2 vols.

There is a good deal of characteristic and life-like description, and the variety
of incident through which the several personages of the story are carried is remarkable.'
 Athcmeum.

THE GREEN HILLS BY THE SEA: A Manx

Story. By Hugh Cohesion Davidson. 3 vols.

Some of the characters are real human beings, some of the situations are
powerfully conceived, and many of the descriptions are admirable."  Academy.

"Mr Davidson's imagination is fantastic, as well as original at times, and he
writes a great deal that is pleasant to read and remember."  Daily Telegraph.

MURIEL'S MARRIAGE. ByEsME Stuart, Author

of " A Fair Dalzell," &c. 3 vols.
"Much of the interest and charm of the story, and both are considerable, are
due to the delineations, not merely of the two principal personages, but of the
minor characters" scotsman.

ONCE AGAIN. By Mrs. Forrester, Author of

"Viva," " Mignon," " My Lord and My Lady," &c. (Second Edition

3 vols.

A really fascinating story. Bright and often original as is Mrs. Forrester, her
peculiar gifts have never been seen to better advantage than in 'Once Again.'
An undercurrent of tragedy runs through this startling tale, and this, together
with its graphically drawn characters, sets it completely apart from the ordinary
society story."  Morning Post.

A WILFUL YOUNG WOMAN. By A. Price,

Author of " A Rustic Maid," " Who is Sylvia?" &c. 3 vols,
A very readable story. Mrs. Price has drawn her dramatis personae with some
power and vigour" carfemy.
The story is throughout both sound and high-principled" Literary ]world.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo, 68.

I30]SrOVA.N:

A MODERN ENGLISHMAN.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it is
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time."  Standard.

' Donovan ' is told with the power of truth, experience, and moral insight. The tone
of the novel is excellent and very high."  Daily Xirics.

"VE Two.

This book is well written and full of interest. The story abounds with a good many
light touches, and is certainly far from lacking in incident"  Times.

"' We Two' contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyall is a capable writer and a clear-headed thinker."  Athenaeum.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

"There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the boot is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought" <Sco(iman.

IN THE Golden DiYS.

"Miss Lyall has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney ; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it. absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one reads."  Spectator.

' ' In the Golden Days ' is an excellent novel of a kind we are always particularly glad
to recommend. It has a good foundations plot and incident, a thoroughly noble and
wholesome motive, a hero who really acts and suffers heroically, and two very nice
heroines. The historical background is very carefully indicated, but is never allowed to
become more than background."  Guardian.

"The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters the learned Cornelia especially;
the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not after all, the sum total of real life."  Academy.

' Won by Waiting ' is a very pleasing and well-written tale ; full of graphic descriptions
of French and English life, with incidents and characters well sustained. A hook
with such pleasant reading, and with such a healthy tone and influence, is a great boon
to the yovmg people in our families."  Freeman.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

\
