CHAPTER I.

Groping.

' Proputtij, property, proputty, tliafs luliat I sears 'em
say . . : ' Property, jrojMtty, property! "

T\IANA BEAUCHAMP  the last of the
Beauchamp, the inheritor of all the distinguished
points of that distinguished race ;
the inheritor of all the accumulated wit and
brilliant parts of that hair-brained assemblage
of ancestral dignitaries who had made ducks
and drakes of all that was come-table, and

VOL. I. B

left Beaucliamp Court mortgaged up to its
last tree, to this, the sole remaining representative
of that once prolific race, Diana
Beauchamp.

"You say the property is strictly entailed,
Mr. Bovin ? "

Mr. Bovin murmured assent (he is not at all
like a lawyer  more like a rosy-cheeked farmer,
more like cattle and hams and pecks o' barley).
Entailed upon you and your heirs," he adds
lazily, as if the hum of bees is in his ears, and
the rhythm of scythes; "that's the meaning of
entail. Ladies are supposedly ignorant of these
matters."

Can I let the estate ? "

No, Miss Beauchamp, you cannot ; there is
a curious clause in the title-deeds relating to
that question."

It seems I can do nothing but live here, and
yet have nothing to live on."

Just so, my dear young lady ; it's provoking,
very provoking." And then Mr. Overlooked
as growls as a good-natured farmer
might look on a drenching ingathering day.

In Italy I supported myself ; doubtless you
have heard of my proceedings'' said Diana,
leaning her head on her hand, and looking reflectively
down the grand avenue which faced
the window.

'every creditable, very highly creditable,"
responded Mr. Bovin, clinking the dangles on
his massive gold chain. " You are the last of a
clever race."

A clever race, were they ? " said Diana
dreamily, as if she were some alien offshoot.
"Was Sir Golf clever?"

In his own line," said Mr. Bovin.

What line ? "

Mr. Bovin dimpled  or dimpled perhaps is a
more appropriate term  into easy smiles.

B 2

'* Fishing. Sir Golf hooked the biggest
salmon that  well, that ever was hooked. It
weighed eighty pounds."

Ah ! " said Diana, looking away from Mr.
Bovin with a wholly humorist smile.

*' There are so many styles of cleverness,
Miss Beau champ, so many and various forms.
I take it that a man who hooks a big salmon
is as clever as the man who badgers his
witness into a hysterical state of negation.
Each hooks his salmon on his own line."
After this Mr. Bovin looked downwards on
his flowered waistcoat, and smiled alderman


I am interested in Sir Golf, because Mrs.
Battle says I am so like him," said Diana.

Mrs. Battle studied Sir Golfs features,
doubtless. Yes, now you mention it, I think
you do resemble Sir Golf very markedly.
But this is natural. He was your father's

brother, very near of kin." Then silence
fell.

*' You know who originated my recitations,
Mr. Bovin ? "

"I do ; the Philothea  a remarkable
woman, a very remarkable woman. I took
Mrs. Bovin to hear her lecture. She quite-upset
my wife, dear soul." Then Mr. Bovin
dimpled " in cycles as if recollection had
stirred a mischievous brain wave. " The
Philothea was lost in the Livonia, and left her
immense fortune to a chance acquaintance,
Miss Cora Porsyth, since married to that
radical fellow Carrington Mervin. I wish
she had left her fortune to you, Miss Beauchamp.
Well, well, you must carry on your
recitations in this country. You may redeem
the estate."

Mr. Bovin's brow had puckered up, and
his lips were drawn tightly together. These

were his facial activities when legally speaking.
He was unprepared for the effect of his
words ; he had thought his client destine
but unemotional, veering towards
northern rather than southern hemispheres.
AYith an exclamation of joy Diana
rose and took those two podgy hands of Mr.
Bovin's in her own, and held them, to his
discomfort.

You have won my eternal gratitude. You
have filled me with hope. Yes, I ivill redeem
the estate. But do not English people look
somewhat coldly on this form of entertainment
? "What of their criticism ? Could I
bear it ? Should I meet with the exquisite
courtesy in this country I have met with in
Italy ? Will stolid stares discountenance
me?"

Mr. Bovin's hands were safely tucked away.
He did not understand emotional people ;

besides, he had thought Miss Beauchamp the
reverse of emotional, and it's very discountenancing
to find people different to your
conceptions. You never recover your surprise,
and the surprise opens out into all sorts of
odd suggestions and overbalancing conceptions,
so that you never feel righted again.
Besides, his hands belonged to Mrs. Bovin, dear
good soul.

If only Diana could have followed these
reflective mazes in which the amiable, bucolic,
and eminently unimaginative Mr. Bovin found
himself, she too would have been filled with
discountenancing reflections ; but Diana was
as one floundering in quagmires when conversing
with Mr. Bovin. He was a lawyer,
and, furthermore, her lawyer. He would
understand her enthusiasm.

I have no doubt you would draw a large
audience," he at last said, speaking slowly

and with measurement. " He or she who
points with one finger, standing midway on a
stretch of pavement  north, south, east, or
west  draws a large and interested audience
shortly to his or her side. I think the fact
that Miss Beau champ, of Beauchamp, will
appear in * Recitation ' is sufficient guarantee
of an interested audience. With regard to the
Gorgon izing stare, people will pay to stare,
and English people, now more than ever,
exact the full value of their coin. It's a
Cheap Jack age."

'' How many thousand pounds will it take
to redeem Beauchamp ? " said Diana, rising
and pacing the room, her head bent slightly
forward as she stood for a moment facing Mr.
Bovin in the flickering: liorht of the fire, with
the dusky wintry shadows enfolding her in
their mysterious mantling.

"Of course I was joking, Miss Beauchamp.

You can never redeem the Court, though you
may make a sufficiently handsome income to
live up to the requirements of an aesthetical
ao;e."

How many thousand pounds "will it take
to redeem Beauchamp ? " reiterated Diana ; her
tone was impelling, and her slight fingers were
tightly interlaced.

Fifty thousand pounds would pay off
the mortgage," said Mr. Bovin lazily. Once
more the hum of bees and the rhythm of
scythes were surely in his ears. When weare
dealing with visionaries we may surely
look sleepy.

Ah ! " said Diana ; and then she resumed
her walk up and down the faded carpet as if
Mr. Bovin was out of her ken. What transmitted
grace lurked in the movements of
Diana ! Somehow you liked to watch her.
She seemed to mingle with the sighing and

whisperings and changeful moods of Nature's
mysticism.

"Well, I think I must be going back to
Mrs. Bovin now, dear soul," said Mr. Bovin,
rising slowly and warily from the arm-chair
which had held him longer than he had
intended ; but sometimes a piece of furniture
will hold us as tightly as any person or
thing. How much heroism has been slaughtered
by a few downy feathers and a padded
piece of seduction installed in a warm
corner I There is subtle power in a meditative
grip.

Mrs. Bovin must have won your thanks,
Mr. Bovin, or else you would not call her a
*dear soul.' Whenever husbands call their
wives ' dear souls ' I feel sure they have
merited this distinction by some conspicuous
forbearance."

Mr. Bovin regarded his client with a stare

which had something of fear in its composition.
Was she in fun, or was she in earnest ? These
wide-awake young ladies were a positive nineteenth
century nightmare.

How thankful he felt that Mrs. Bovin was
as she was, ' dear soul," groping about in a
twilight existence. Miss Beauchamp would
twist everybody and everything upside
down.

*' Of course I was joking," said Diana, regarding
mischievously the crumpled appearance
Mr. Bovin had developed.

Joking as far as you are concerned, though
in. most instances I assure you 'tis the case.
I've seen such a comical side of life, for my
observations have been carried on through a
powerful telescope at a long range  always at a
Ion or ranee in wholesome fear of claws and
teeth."

Mr. Bovin smiled, and bowed with the respect

due to a clever client ; and, as he walked down
the avenue, which no mortgagee could rob of its
calm dignity, mentally ejaculated, "From all
clever women defend me I "

HOMESPUN.

And because rigid. is right, to follow right were wisdom in
the scorn of consequence J 

Diana paced up and down the faded carpet,
which had received the impress of so many
bygone feet, amidst the shadowy furniture
which had stood " exactly so '' for so many generations,
 up and down, heedless of the gloom.
What is sunlight or moonlight, heat or cold,
times or seasons, to a dominant spirit ? She
was a sculptor carving a destiny,  carving it
exquisitely, as if she were the President who
ordered her own goings. Life had been a
struggle hitherto ; it would be none the less

SO now  the acquisition of Beauchamp was no
positive gain.

For years she had been alone in the world ;
for years she had been flung on her own
resources, and those resources consisted in a
marvellously retentive memory, an exquisite
sensibility (which seemed to weave the sorrows
and joys of the character she portrayed in her
recitations into the very warp and woof of her
own being), a voice of sweet and powerful range,
and a subtle distinction of manner which, like a
magnet, repelled where it did not draw *the
continental world declared there was smatter' in
me ; will the insular world say so too ? " mused
Diana.

Fifty thousand pounds,"  a sum acquired
by men over and over again ; by women rarely,
unless they are able to draw through the
medium of a quill pen and a drop of ink ;
unless they have a daisy-chain kind of mind, or

brains which can toss off some flowers of rhetoric.
Hope, I invoke thee ! " cried Diana aloud.
Come, gaily decked sprite, with thy eager glad
eyes, and whisper in the quick o' my ear that
1 shall redeem the Court." But there was no
answer to her cry save the answer of her own
indomitable will.

Here is something on which to expend these
burning: energies, which are for ever ursrino:
and goading me to enterprise. Here is something
to conquer.

Mr. Bovin laughed as ironically as if I had
said I would pay ofl" the national debt. Mr.
Bovin thinks it's a pity that I am not a ' dear
soul ' ; but circumstances, be they what they
may, will never turn me into a ' dear soul.' I've
a yearning after the ' dear souls ' ; I stretch out
mental feelers towards them ; I often cry out
for a placid interior  for a soul which wonders
not, Questions not. I cry out for the moral and

mental paraphernalia of a ' dear soul '  the
comfortable nature which wakes up with a * dear
dear '  and trots up and down the highways and
byways of life, and comes off without scars and
scratches." And now Diana lao-hed  laughed

o o

with the spring-tide of a pure laugh, rung out
unadulterated.

"If Mrs. Battle hears me laughing all
alone, she will think all descriptions of things'
thought Diana. " This comes of a solitary
existence and solitary dialogues with oneself."
Then she went to the door and called
Mrs. Battle.

Mrs. Battle was never far distant. She had
been as useful to Sir Golf as the old warming-pan
watch he carried in his waistcoat pocket ;
and now she was to be as useful to Diana. She
had been lady housekeeper to Sir Golf, if
such a term could be applied to the domestic
arrangements of the Court, which consisted of

an ancient male and female factotum who had
joined hands for the sake of conveniency below-stairs.


Mrs. Battle had been Sir Golfs butt and
sole source of amusement indoors.

The only fault I can find with you, most
estimable Battle," he used to say  when,
dinner ended, he would sink into the arm-chair
which had a trick of holding its occupants 
is this : you won't rise. No salmon floundering
in that river over there has ever, in the
long run, resisted my bait, but I've never
succeeded in getting so much as a surface
agitation out of you."

Whereupon the inestimable Mrs. Battle
would smile, and say, "Sir Golf I Sir Golf!"
and then sighing placidly, " Sir Golf ! Sir
Golf ! "

Mrs. Battle always wore homespun ; she
wore home manufactures on principle. She

VOL. I. c

needed no Lady Receive to stir up the esprit
de corps in her gentle mind. She was in a
homespun " now, though its tint was sombre ;
for she mourned Sir Golf.

Mrs. Battle, like many extremely amiable
people, had one ferocious point. It was this
he or she who despised their nationality.
My husband was an Englishman," she would
say ; '' my mother, father, aunts, uncles,
grandfathers, grandmothers," and here she
fell away from her generations and gave way
to genealogical panting, and, generally speaking,
left her audience to fill in the rest ; her
audience, for the most part, consisting of
Mrs. Bovin or Miss Edwards, the doctors
sister.

Mrs. Battle panted slightly as she entered
the room ; she was stout, and hurry of movement
induced panting. The panting merged
into a comfortable sigh as she took her usual

seat in the deep recess of the old-fashioned
fireplace.

From whence comes your unruffled calm,
i\Irs. Battle ? " said Diana. " Occasionally it's
instructive to dive beneath the exterior into
the interior to examine the roots of other
natures. Let me examine yours. I've been
one short week at the Court, and each day
Mrs. Battle has presented the same unvarying
front. 'Tis not so with Nature ; each day, each
moment, she varies ; the light creeping down
the mountain sides at noon, and the shadows
creeping down the same mountains at even,
change its aspect from grave to gay, or gay
to grave. But with you, morning, noon, and
nio;ht make not the slightest difference. In
Italy physiognomies vary ten thousand times
within twelve hours. Take Marcia, my maid 
she was all stilettos and smiles. Mrs. Battle,
did you ever learn the Catechism ? "

C 2

Of course I did," said Mrs. Battle, " and
everything else that's thoroughly English."

' Bravissimo" said Diana, continuing her
restless walk up and down the room ; " may I
put you through it ? "

Mrs. Battle smoothed her hair placidly, and
smiled benignly. The Golfs had ever been
thus, and if you did not take them as you
found them, then you must find them as you
took them  which was the deepest piece of
philosophy Mrs. Battle's grey matter had ever
shaped.

What is your name ? "

Martha, Miss Beauchamp, so named after
my great-grandmother on the maternal side."

N. or M. ? M. has it. Did you ever
compare the English and Scotch Catechisms ?
You had better not. They open fire so very
differently. What are your likes and dislikes ?
I will be the key.

You like to ' purr ' and to be ' purred ' at.
You were born without claws  I declare it
and the phantasm of other people's claws
has never crossed your imagination ; your
imagination as yet lies dormant, and no springtide
is likely to awake it ; so rest thee well,
thou baleful or most blessed of gifts, the subtle
powerful sense which clothes everybody and
everything in its own strange mantling.

'' Martha Battle, promise me this ; place
your hand on your thigh, like Jacob of old,
and vow your vow, that you will never leave
me. You rest me. Yes, it is restful to live
with a wholesome soul  wholesome as bread,
of which we never tire. I have seen so much
unwholesomeness in women. When I pant
for the streams of my heart to flow fresh and
pure, I go to Nature, and stretch out my
hands towards it. As yet I seem to know
God but through Nature. If the flowers and

the streams and the woods are so fair, what
must He be ? So I know Him in His works ;
I've approached no nearer as yet. Sometimes
in Florence, when examining the petals of an
asphodel, I've cried out, *' Make me pure and
divinely careless as these creations of Thine
hand.' These my prayers, my only prayers.
This my nearest approach to communion with
the Infinite.

Then with finite beings I've floated on the
surface of society, touched extended fingertips,
and extended finger-tips to be touched
in return. I've dived beneath the surface
of society, and watched life's aquarium at
work and at play, and yet the desire for
friendship has never stirred within me. So
long as the winds can carry my secrets, and
the sun kiss my lips, and the flowers whisper
of revelations yet to come, and Leone and
Muscatel lick my hands, what do I want with

friendship, so called ? Some have said, there
is too much ice about me ; but to-night I feel
aglow with a tropical sun. Mr. Bovin has
given me an aim, an object, a goal  the redemption
of this Court."

Mrs. Battle held up ten fingers, shaped like
wickets ; but her countenance portrayed no
horror, such as upraised hands generally
carry.

That's right," said Diana, " 'tis thus you
encourage me. Our hands are subtle members,
equal to our brains, in their own line, as Mr.
Bovin would say. London will be the scene
of my activities, Mr. Cantilupe the medium of
my activities. The Philothea told me to goto
him if I required information on any subject
or floating in a new capital. In Kome, or
Florence, I never lacked an audience ; London
may be more critical, it can hardly be so
artistic."

*' Recitations don't pay' said Mrs. Battle,
looking into the fire.

Cela depend,' said Diana.

I don't know French," said Mrs. Battle, still
looking into the fire.

Don't know French, and say so ! No
wonder you are wholesome, no wonder you
look calm," cried Diana delightedly. " You
are a corrective to an uprising vision.

The uprising vision was maliciously asked
by a friend  ' Do you remember your premier
baiser ? ' The malicious one meanwhile negligently
turning over the leaves of the valse so
named. My uprising vision, standing on the
quicksands of an educational confession, bowed
with a finesse worthy of relegating her to
diplomatic wifehood  bowed, and thus veiled
her ignorance."

English is the only language worth knowing,"
said Mrs. Battle.

Behold her ! " said Diana, as if addressing an
audience, " behokl her ! An English lady, girt
about with white giants, only to be approached
by an invasion of aeronauts from the other side.
Recitations dont pay ! Recitations shall pay !
Slant and stalls an ugly, sinful couple, are they
not ? Yet what thew and sinew, what bludgeons
and daggers, and various implements down to
a thief's skeleton key ! Martha Battle, ]iglit
a candle here and there, and listen to the throb
of Shakespeare's soul  that wonderful soul of his,
now aglow with the splendours of an orient sun,
and now dark with the darkness of driving
storms."

Mrs. Battle sighed placidly as she rose and
did Miss Beauchamp's bidding ; then sank into
her chair again, and with meek, upraised eyes
prepared herself for an exhibition of some
sort.

Framed in one of the arched windows at the

end of the long room, Diana seemed already to
have merged her personality in that of the
poet's conception. Her voice rang out clear
and impelling, hurrying you along with the
resistless force of her own impassioned rendering
; her figure lent itself to each expression
of her words ; her countenance mirrored the
changeful words of each varied scene ; and
her eyes, filled with the electric currents of the
forces which swayed her, seemed a recitation
in themselves. Surely this was genius uttering
genius.

o o

Mrs. Battle, sitting blinking: in the wax-lights,
felt herself in the presence of a novel
being. But then she was a Beauchamp, and
the Beauchamps were rare. Still no Beauchamp
within her recollection had been so
rare as this Diana. There must be something

o

in race, or there must be something in education,
or there must be something in something

; and then Mrs. Battle relapsed into
dimness.

Recitations shall pay," said Diana, throwing
herself negligently into Sir Golfs armchair,
and clasping her hands carelessly about
her neck.

A QUEST.

0, yd methought I saw the Holy Grail
All jjall'd ill crimson samite, and around
Great angels, atcful shapes, and icings, and eyes

'' Must I die, Edwards 1 "

The speaker was a man in the prime of
life  a man, though sick unto death, yet goodly
to look upon.

*' Life and death are not in my hands, Sir
Plaise."

I will know Him in whose hands they are,
should I recover," said the sick man uprising
from the pillow by sheer force of inflexible
will. "If I die now, I cry with Voltaire, ' I'm

about to take a leap in the dark. He who
puts his horse at a *'clyke" in the dark is surely
mad.' God ! I have been mad ! "

Mr. Edwards was silent. He was not a
physician of souls.

Have they shot Nell ? "

*' Yes ; her life was sheer agony."

Poor Nell ! " and here a light broke over
the suffering face of Sir Blaise, which, if it was
not love, was akin to it. Then a deep groan
was wrung from him as pain took the mastery,
then unconsciousness.

Mr. Edwards applied restoratives. The restoratives
availed. Two hours of mortal
agony passed. Mr. Edwards moistened those
parched lips, and bathed that brow on which
the veins stood out like the tendrils of a vine,
knotted and twisted with pain, with the controlling,
yet tender touch of sympathy.

Mr. Edwards was not a physician of souls,

but lie was an arch-physician of bodies. The
hours grew to night, and at last Sir Blaise
fell into fitful slumber. Not till then did Mr.
Edwards's expression vary from fixed gravity
to ease. Stooping down, he swept those penetrating
eyes of his over Sir Blaise's features, and
murmured, " He will pull through'

Vows made on sick-beds, or when Death
has laid a finger on us, are seldom kept.
Where are the nine ? is repeated over andover
again in the experience of each of us.
Where are the nine ? Out once again with
the summer winds, whispering glad mystic
breathing about us ; out amidst the starry
blossoms and the sun-kissed fruits, plucking
June roses, and marvelling at the jug-jug of
the nightingale. Our vows, where are they ?
Gone ! Yes, gone with the feverish dreams
of yesternight  gone to echo amidst the

haunted spots of earth. Gone where all that
has perished untimely finds a grave.

Sir Blaise is not as the nine, he is as the one ;
he has returned to give thanks, or, rather, he has
set out on his quest  but, like many others, he
has lost his way.

All the county was distressed when Sir
Blaise Panmure was carried insensible from
the hunting-field. The distress showed itself
after the usual form  an epidemic of pasteboard
and a flotilla of notes ; but no one was
admitted to the presence of Sir Blaise.

Two months had passed since the accident,
and Sir Blaise was as well again as he had ever
been. Yet no persuasive message or winning
inquiry had availed to open the doors of
Whitefriars to friend or acquaintance. " Tell
them, one and all. Vizard," he had said to his
confidential valet, " I am off on a quest, and till
I find the Beatific Vision I can see no one."

AVliereupoii Vizard, who worshipped Sir
Bhiise, had given way to absolute tears in the
privacy of his own room; for no one should
share his sorrowful belief that Sir Blaise
would never recover his accident. He was so
strange  so unlike what he had been ; and so
Vizard made his excuses, framing them now
in plush and now in gold, now in wood and
now in metal, and showing a pictorial imagination
in the arrangement of these excuses.

And Sir Blaise set out on his quest  a
quest the thoughtful of all ages have set out
on, from Odin upwards, because the problems
of life and death oppress them, because the
inevitable is beckoning with too ghastly a
gesture unless the strange future can bedecked
with some sweet sprays from Hope's
ever-beauteous garden, unless they can find
some safe and happy anchorage for their
tossed and wearied souls. Some travel many

leagues and climb many staircases before the
star hath led them to the little Babe of Bethlehem
; some try first one philosophy and then
another, and look into many creeds and divers
cults, before, with exultations trampling on pain,
they clasp the feet of the crucified Christ.

Whitefriars was the estate adjoining Beauchamp
Court, and for centuries it had looked
down with all the complacent grandeur even
bricks and mortar can display on the palpable
ruin at its side,  with its grass-grown walks,
moss-covered stones, and disconsolate shutters,
which, like eyes which hold a tragic past, looked
the type of the wreck within.

On the magnificent terrace which sentinelled
the front aspect of Whitefriars the Argus-eyed
peacocks sunned themselves, and strutted conspicuously,
breathing pomp, in juxtaposition to
the melancholy hoots of the owls, which had
made their dwelling-place amidst the ivy now

VOL. I. D

much too politic at Beaucliamp, and the mysterious
bats which flitted about the neglected
walks with dismal flapping.

The lawns and parterres at Whitefriars were
clipped and docked like a French poodle or Polo
pony ; the pleasaunce would have accorded with
the stately steps of wigged gallants and hooped
ladies in the reign of Queen Bess ; those walks
were squared out for grandiloquent speeches of
a past day.

The home farm was a model, and the stables
mioht have been a national boast. Such contrasts
seem like the irony of fate  full of the
mocking and gibing of a transmitted plague,
which dodges the footsteps of recurring generations,
and avenges itself on the profuseness
which will deck some natures, which will give
and never take, and which twists its pocket
inside out, and still smiles through all, if with
rueful relish of the smile.

Perhaps sir Blaise Pannnire would have
twisted his pockets inside out if he had been a
'' town man " ; but he abhorred London and all
towns without distinction ; loved horses, dogs,
and sport ; hated fashion and sham ; had never
rend a novel, so was Arcadian in his simplicity
as regards woraen ; in fact, he cared but little
about them, though they cared a good deal
about him. He viewed them as delicate china
too fragile for much use ; as flowers, which
a too ardent sun might wither at a glance ;
as creatures to be approached with exceeding
reverence.

Lady Panmure had been one of this fragile
growth. All dimly Sir Blaise remembered
her. and the remembrance was tinged with
worship. Memory recalled the exceeding care
with which his father. Sir Dyke, had dug
about and watered his conversation when addressing
her, relegating all strong expressions

L> 2

t(j the galleries of this mental arrangements,
and becoming a metamorphosed man for the
very few minutes in each day he spent with
this Sevres china wife he had married. Sir
Blaise could not imagine a lady who would
not be as his mother had been  fine, extremely
fine  flexible as textures which pass
through rings, wrought delicately as spider's
web.

So years rolled by, and no Lady Panmure
reigned at Whitefriars  not for lack of hardie



loud on the ladies' part ; for, notwithstanding
the fragility of Sevres china, ladies can be as
tough as earthenware, and they had in more
than one instance ventured perilously far on
the quicksands of half-disclosed sentiments,
which, in full revelation, were the white rose
of confession.

Sir Blaise was so lovable  surely he could
be loving And Sir Blaise  ah ! he stroked

his moustache, called his dogs about him,
and frowned, half puzzled at the stoutness of
Sevres china ; and then the frown lightened
into a half-smile, as he viewed a favourite
hunter, and murmured to himself how women
babble, and they don't know what they say 
how should they ?

And thus once more the sex were reinstated
in the cabinet, of value priceless ; but,
as yet, no Lady Panmure reigned at White -
friars  or ever will, was whispered in the
servants' hall. Only Vizard checked that
growing whisper by closing one eye and opening
the other, and looking so alarmingly
prophetic, and prophetically obscure, that it
was felt, though not acknowledged by the
household, that the secret springs and watchwords
and passes, which are the peculiar signs
by which the initiated pass in and out, and
sit down within those inner cycles of a being,

were known, nay, mud be known, to Vizard
that juggler movement of the eyelid meant
oceanic depths.

How often does a strange smile, an odd
twinkle, or an incipient shrug, open up a
thousand outlets and inlets, leading: down
roads where, turning from right to left, you
find no bourn. How often does one human
being flagellate another with no weapon more
deadly than these civilized movements of lip,
eye, or shoulder  which yet are more eloquent
of savagery than poignards or stilettos, in sofar
that subtlety is ever more dangerous than
(open warfare !

And as we grow more civilized, alas ! we
grow more subtle, more sure of aim  more
conscious that the most deadly wounds are
those which no physician can heal, no ointment
mollify.

Knowledge is power : and so language becomes

the chosen instrument with which we play
iipoij the heart-strings of each other, and force
out those cries which ring dumb through the
immensity of space, and only wake an' echo
in the heart of Infinitude, Who is infinitely
kind.

Contrasts.

Here, too, all hush'd below the mellow w.oon,
Save that one rivulet from a tiny cave
Came lightning downward, and so split itself
Among the roses, and was lost again."

The estates which arc passing under our
notice were situated in the right pleasant
county of Hereford  a county prolific of all
things  corn, cattle, rivers, meadows, May-blush
of blossom, and September-blush of
fruitage. "A county which," writes Camden,
"for yielding of corne, nd feeding of cattle,
is in all places most fruitful, and therewith
passing well furnished with all things necessary

for man's life ; insomuch as it would
scorn to be considered seconde to any other
county throughout all England for fertility of
soil ; and, therefore," saith he, " for wheat,
wool, water, it yielded to no shire in
England. And verily it hath also divers
notable rivers, Wye, Lug, and Munow, which,
after they have watered the most flowering
meadows and fruitful corne fields, at length
meet together, and in one channel passe on to
the Severe sea."

Whitefriars stood some seven miles to the
north of Leominster. The modern castellated
mansion retained but few traces of its ancient
architecture ; but here and there the owner
could point to the handiwork of the past  a
walled garden, and pleasaunce to the rear,
and an ancient chapel which no supplanting
touch had altered. Beauchamp Court, from
the purest point of view, was far more interesting,

as no wealthy Beauchamp had been
able, if inclined, to profane its antiquity, and
the only architects who had meddled with it
for centuries where the noiseless, yet ceaselessly
active, workmen idiom Time employs 
whose crumbling touch is yet full of loving
reverence.

Somehow the sun seemed to beat down on
Beauchamp with a greater fervency of love
than on the stately mansion at its side, and
the shadows linger more regretfully about the
quaint doorway and the mouldering gateway
with its mutilated coat-of-arms ; and if the
crows and rooks did jabber too pronounced
now and then of their strange adventures in
their flights amidst the chimney-pots of Leo-minster,
or wanderings farther or nearer as
they listed, the blackbird's mellow whistle and
the thrush's kingly note made melody, to
which high angels might listen, as they built

their nests in the grand old trees, and strutted
on the daisy-covered lawns in search of forage.
The snails crawled about with indifferent interest
as to their shells  no tyrant heel would
crush them ; and the bees wooed the pollens
from morn till night with amorous buzz. As
for the butterflies, they lived and died secure
collection hunters were unknown here  a
very Eden they had found. All wild creatures
that the march of civilization has left
seemed to haunt the grounds by right of law ;
and Diana, who had now come to join them,
seemed not the least untamed for all her
culture.

AMIDST DEAD THINGS.

But even lohile I drank the brook and ate
The goodly apples all these things at once
Fell into dust, and I twas left alone."

Who loves lumber-rooms ? To some natures
they are as seductive as an old curiosity shop,
and when these lumber-rooms are to be found
in ancient dwellings they are indeed like a
story in the Arabian Nights. You may not
come across gold or jewels, but you are on
ground bewitched with the bewitchment of
tradition. Here you can sit cross-legged like
a mystic Turk, and weave endlessly; here you
can call up vision after vision, and tread the

streets of dead cities, and gaze at the kings and
queens who inhabited them.

Yes, there is a spell in these speechful things,
which dead hands have laid by ; there is a dumb
eloquence which will enthral you, and hold you
silent many an hour.

Here is an ancient robe ; 'tis brocade  we
see no such brocade now  'tis full of shifting
tints.

' What hours of gladness are entrapped
amidst your folds, or was she sad for all
her brave attire  she who flitted up and
down this very staircase thus robed ? " thought
Diana, as with a dreamful sigh she laid it
back with its sprigs of rosemary on its empty
bodice.

Now the hilt of a sword attracted her, and
she drew it from its sheath, and shuddered.
It was no plaything ; dented, rusty, scratched
it had history written on its steely face ; it

bore the brand of Cain, it had surely tasted
human blood.

Here was a doll  a wooden elinor without
legs or arms  yet, doubtless, the most dearly
loved of all the treasures of some bygone
child. The pathos of childhood consists in
its tenacious clinging to the mutilated and
shabby ; it has less liking for those frilled
and furrowed darlings which a sticky finger
can damage hopelessly, or a smothering kiss
denude of all its paint. Diana dropped a
tear on the wooden doll. She had sighed
over the glorious fabric, shuddered at the
cruel sword ; but emotion stirred at the toy,
and yet she knew not why.

Now some curious Florentine fabric attracted
her ; the Beauchamps had been roving men, all
save Sir Golf, but the salmon kept him quiet.
It was like a glimpse of Italia's skies to Diana ;
she pressed her lips to the stuff, and held it to

her heart. " Italy, ray foster-mother, some child
of yours busied himself with this creation at the
loom ! "

Diana fell to measuring her treasure.
How many yards were here ? What draperies
she would make ! those sombre dining-room
curtains should be replaced by this wonderful
feast of colour. Yes, the Court should wake
up at the touch of an artiste, for Diana was
an artiste in every fibre of her being. Colour
was like the peal of a bell to her ; it had
unspoken prayer in its amazing glories of
hue and tint ; it was the embodiment of a
celestial vision.

She was quitting the lumber-room with
the fabric in one great pile on her arms,
which were strong and supple as any Greek
statue's  for Diana's form was moulded like
one of the nymphs or fauns of the artist's
studio  when a picture, with its face to the

wall, caught her attention. Pausing, she
slipped her roll of stuff to the ground, and
turned it to the light. It was covered with
dust, and black with age, but neither dust
nor age could hide the depths of colour which
the touch of a maestro had left on the canvas,
it was the head and bust of a woman  a
woman out of whose eyes looked a great
sorrow and a great repentance, and round the
dusky beauty of whose head a faint nimbus
shone.

Once more Diana slid to the floor ; she
knelt upon her knees," and looked long at
those haunting eyes, which made that canvas
tell its tale for all time. The brocaded robe
had spoken, the rusty sword had spoken, the
wooden doll had spoken ; yet the face of this
woman held her as none of these dead things
had  with an overpowering sense of the mystery
of evil and the mystery of repentance.

How long Diana knelt before the picture
she took no count ; she was penetrated
with a touch of genius. By whom was
that ling woman painted ? She s'pohe from
the canvas, she must &o speaJc as long as the
world endures. Surely this was a masterpiece
; yet the canvas was turned to the wall,
as if those eyes must whisper forth their
secret to the stones and plaster. Was this
a Vandyke ? a Rembrandt ? a Eapjiael ? a
Giotto ? which 

*' Miss Beau champ ! " Mrs. Battle's unemotional
voice, which had a bah, bah, for
all times, awakened her from her reverie.
Luncheon is ready. You must be frozen
amongst this rubbish. Don't you find all
this dead stuff most depressing ? Do comedown
to the warmth and light ; do leave this
rat-hole."

Diana was silent ; she only indicated with a

VOL. I. E

wave of her hand the picture, as if this were
sufficient to enchain Mrs. Battle also.

Horrified with the dust ! I don't wonder,
Miss Beauchamp) ; look at that frame, fine
growing soil." Mrs. Battle smiled ; she was
treading on the confines of a shadowy joke.
What dreadful eyes the poor lady has, to
be sure ! No wonder she was sent up here 
such an awful stare in them, they follow one,
I declare. Oh dear, I should have a nightmare,
I'm sure, if I looked at her long.
AVhat a heap of rubbish there is up here, to
be sure ! and how it multiplies ! Rubbish is
the only thing that does multiply, I believe.
Dear, dear  to be sure  to be sure."

Then Diana looked at Mrs. Battle, much as
some shore midst look at a babbling; child.

To appreciate genius, the breath of genius
must, at least, have hovered about you. If
has taken you by the hand, and whispered

something of its secret in your ear. Florence,
the Asphodel of our world, had led Diana up
and down her streets, and away through her
olive valleys. Florence had shown her all
her glorious children, wrought in stone and
metal and colour. Florence had whispered
of aspiration, and Diana had kindled as at the
touch of inspiration.

The sweeping shadows of that matchless
drapery, the living soul in those wonderful
eyes, the dusky glory of the sorrow smitten
yet heavenward glancing face, with the faintly
outlined nimbus like a rainbow promise  all,
all was lost on Mrs. Battle. It was a picture
covered with dust, black with age, fit for lumber,
rooms  nothing more.

Come," said Diana, " let us discourse on
home-made bread and chicken fricassee; Fm
hungry " ; yet she made no pretence of movement,
only slid nearer the picture. She might

E 2

live been telling her beads  there was a great
awe in her face, and a great reverence. Godlike
genius had evoked it.

'* Yes," said Mrs. Battle, gathering her skirts
about her, and looking round with protesting
vexation at such a medley of rubbish, "let
us go to luncheon."

I will follow you," said Diana ; " leave me
for one more minute ; I'm doing homage."

Doing what ? " said Mrs. Battle, confusedly,
" doing what ? " as in hopeless
mental disorder she pattered down the steep
spiral staircase which led up to the *'' rat-hole."


Many minutes passed before Diana rose,
and when at last she turned away from her
meditation and followed Mrs. Battle's steps,
there was a lio;ht on her face as though she
had been walking on some sun-kissed spot
where mystic flowers bloom, and birds who

had soared so Iiigh that they had caught
some angel notes, sang wondrous songs. She
had been where genius catches its inspiration
she had been in rare company.

OUT GRAZING.

Thus in the seas of life enlisted.

With echoing straits between us thrown,
Dotting the shoreless ivatenj ivied,
We mortal myriads live alone."

This is bread," said Diana, as she faced Mrs.
Battle at luncheon, '' not a stone J'

''A stone?" said Mrs. Battle; "I should
think not."

I mean to say it is real bread, it is full of
corn  a gracious product."

Mrs. Battle smiled comfortably. She wished
Miss Beauchamp would always talk of bread
or cabbages ; she was so at home in a kitchen
garden, or at a harvest-home.

*' I must say, Jane can bake as well as any
Herefordshire woman," said Mrs, Battle.

Jane is the wife of John, is she not ? '
said Diana.

'' Yes. I hope you will not alter the domestic
arrangements. Miss Beauchamp. Jane
and John are a handy couple, and very respectable.
Sir Golf valued them."

Ah, they have ' clomb ' the heights of respectability
and sat down to view the strugglers
below, and have added to respectability handy
ways. I see no reason why I should displace
them from their altitudes, Mrs. Battle.
Respect ability wears a patched coat worn
threadbare, and stands by the road-side, with
hands which will not beg  that is one aspect
of respectability. Then we have the other. It
inhabits a substantial villa, and wears shiny
broadcloth, and clothes its face in * smirJdnessJ
It has a frown, though, for the grimy hand

which ventures to find its way to the brass
knocker, and for those mud-stained boots
which would dare to tread its Kidderminster
carpets. Oh, respectability, 'tis some people's
creed."

You will allow Jane and John to stay on,"
said Mrs. Battle.

'' If they desire it. Handy respectability is
not to be lightly dispensed with." Then Diana
laughed, looking; askew at Mrs. Battle.

"You see I know all about Jane's mother,
father, brothers, sisters, and aunts," said Mrs.
Battle, breathlessly threading her beloved
genealogies ; " likewise John's father, mother,
brother, sister, aunt, on the mother's side.
I was to have seen his uncle ; only, poor man
(he was a woodcutter), the very day I was
to see him, the branch of a tree gave way with
him, and down he fell, and was carried to the
hospital, and there he died. It's so very

necessary in these queer days to know all
about the stock from which you take your
servants  it's not sufficient to know her or
him

What shall we do when servitude is relegated
to tradition ? " said Diana. " The streams
of knowledge are becoming very accessible ; even
the Arabs who haunt the corners of our streets
and the by-paths and the slums will by-and-by
prick up attentive ears, and quench a thirst
which is growing upon them  for knowledge,
at the drinking fountain hard by.

Passing through London on my way here
the other day, the cabby, for some reason of
his own, took me through all the back ways ;
and, after my usual fashion, I tried to pick up
some stray ears of corn, which would build up
this never to-be-completed educational fabric.
We entered a street more ill-favoured than
any, but at the corner of it stood a drinking

fountain, the gift of Mrs. Jordan  suggestive
name !  and wearied horses were quenching
their thirst at its God-sent streams. I thought
by-and-by some more Mrs. Jordan's maybe
raised up to build free schools for men
and women at every corner of our densely
populated cities ; there will be proportionate
results."

Education has a levelling tendency," said
Mrs. Battle, as she grazed on laboriously and
patiently amidst the green pastures of a lobster
salad.

Unquestionably," said Diana. " Culture
will take the wind out of the sails of the most
heady duchess who has no book-lore. Culture
is a wondrous weapon ; its hilt is as precious
as the hilt of Excalibur. Ah ! Mrs. Battle,
as King Arthur said 

The old order cliangetli, yielding place to view.'

Yho can say whether kings and queens and

I

courtiers will be here tomorrow ? The masses
are awaking from the sleep of ignorance.
They begin to understand good and evil.
When knowledge works like summer heat
within their brains, and bears its blossoming
and its lusty fruits, who knows but that they
may rise and claim their equality  the equality
of descent from a common father, ' the Adam '  
the equality of culture derived from a common
source  and the equality of wealth derived
from the exercise of brains ? Everybody is a
lady  it's the pet term for the flower-seller at
the corner of a thoroughfare and the fitter in a
Bond Street draper's.

Conservatism may still mildly talk of the
young person behind the counter ; but  shall
I say, alas !  a shrill clarion is drowning that
remonstrating voice. The young person dresses
as a lady  better than some ladies. She is
conversant with various languages, she can touch

one or two instruments, and, by virtue of her
varied accomplishments and incomparable getup,
she calls herself a lady.

*' By-and-by, we shall reject that term as
obsolete, and woman will be the most dignified
and coveted term of distinction : we shall return
to primitive days."

Sir Golf was Conservative  all the Beauchamps
have been Tories," said Mrs. Battle,
as she grazed on amongst those delectable
pastures.

Her countenance was unruffled. Diana
might have been painting sunsets or moonlights.
Upheavals and craters did not come
in Mrs. Battle's way. The rise and fall of
empires were to her like the rise and fall of
temperatures  subjects to be mildly concerned
about when salads were out of the way.
Nothing more.

'' Conservatives, were they ? " said Diana.

I am nothing ; the world will fight its way
into light, whether there be Conservatives or
Liberals at the wheel. It's an age of jostle,"
she continued, rising, and meditatively examining
those gloomy curtains which were to
exchange places with the Florentine fabric.
*yet though, as befits me, I am nothing in
political bias, if 'tis Conservatism to glory in
the stillness of this old Court, I do so glory.
This stillness will possess me by-and-by ; and if
you say to me, ' AVhat is it thou hast seen, or
what hast thou heard ? ' I shall make answer :
I heard the water lapping on the crag, and the
long ripple washing in the reeds ! Italy fills
me with dreams of Art ; Herefordshire with
quaint fancies of Nature. And now I must
write to Mr. Cantilupe  he who is to make my
fortune ; from poetry to prose. Telle est la vie.
Pardon, pardon. Such is life. You are English,
and I  I am nothing.

MR. Castille.

Beneath the shadow of some bird of prey T .

Mr. Cantilupe had what appraisers term a

hijoii residence in M Street, Grosvenor

Square. Nothing in the shape of matter took
root there but the rare and curious ; this fact
was significant of the man. Everything was
stamped with individuality, everything had a
history, a romance, attached to its personality
(if such a term may be applied to things).

Mr. Cantilupe's occupation or calling was
not calendar amongst professions or professionals.
Yet he had a calling, and to that
calling he owed his knowledge of peoples

and their handiwork, and to that calling
he owed the indefinable strangeness which
touched you with an indefinable sensation in
his presence.

Did you require an impossible introduction,
Mr. Cantilupe was your man. Did you sigh
for that masterpiece of Giotto, Mr. Cantilupe
would make arrangements by which you should
possess your desire by noon to-morrow
Did you hunger for the forelocks of those
Philistines, leave the matter in those ringed
serpentine supple fingers which conveyed so
much. Were you sick unto death, Mr. 
had an exorcising power ; some forms
of malady had been known to depart beneath
the passes of his numerical calculations. Were
you desirous of settling to a career, one glance
from those strange orbs of his, and you were
relegated to the high or low places of this
swinging ball. Were you curious about the

formation of your " crown," Mr. Cantilupe, as
his fingers glide with expressive emphasizing
inquiry over your seat of learning, will soon
tell you how much of the poet, orator, philosopher,
wrangler, or metaphysician there is about
you ; also how beautiful, or how deformed,
your soul is.

]mr. Cantilupe, with these mysterious advantages
over other people  advantages which dwarf
muscular powers, and even mental abilities,
tinged it over men and women, whatever their
nationality ; for all languages, dead and living,
seemed to be known by him. For him fine
gold poured in  not niggardly, or with halting
movements and melancholy counting, but
eagerly, precipitately, with bows and scrapes.
This ai'ch-Jesuit must be propitiated. He knew
all about everybody and everybody's " cupboard
" ; and he could make those skeletons
live and grin. Bah ! whence did that hideous

skeleton start into horrible life the other day,
and stare in letters of black and white from
all the leading newspapers ?

]mr. Cantilupe had been seen to smile at Lord

B , and when Mr. Cantilupe smiled, might

the skies protect you, for nothing else would.
How much Mr. Cantilupe played on the
savagery of the supposedly civilized peoples
of Europe, it would be impossible to say. He
had obtained complete mastery of the gamut
of human nature, and he could play on that
gamut like an Orphe, or a fiend ; he knew the
fascination the weird and fantastical yet hold
for mankind, the power which something
unreadable yet holds over the imagination.
And he laughed in his sleeve at the superstition
which yet beclouds even trained, versed,
professing Christians, in the matter of witchcraft,
which yet mumbles and mutters under
a red cloak, which yet consults the stars or

VOL. I. F

believes in ghosts, or hears a knocking, or
turns a table.

With such an inward entourage, we should
expect something odd in the outward encourage,
and while Mr. Cantilupe is scanning
Diana's letter, which had just arrived, and had
Ijeen handed to him hj an automaton negro 
for Mr. Cantiluj)e had a man-servant who
stood at the hall door and opened it, and
walked upstairs, and held letters and parcels
in those Ethiopian hands  a mechanical man,
all springs, but harmless ; who, as Mr. 
remarked to an alarmed visitor, "will
neither bite nor devour you, and can keep a
secret." We will sketch him.

He is standing by the mantelpiece, a tall
slight man, lithe of limb, and with the grace
of a panther lurking in his movements. His
hair is prematurely grey, for his face is young ;
this lends a wonderful brilliancy to his eyes.

and a peculiar clearness to his skin. But we
must examine his eyes, because all his power
seems to lie there. They seem to be the outward
manifestation of his inward peculiarities ;
they are long, wide-open eyes, and steady as
the planets ; they fix you, and beneath them
you pale or redden or suffocate ; they stir you ;
even very unimaginative people  people who
are blind to all phenomena  like to get away
from them and sit down afar. A grey
moustache half reveals thin chiselled lips  
lips which might be cruel, never sensuous.
The contour of his face is severely classic.

After reading Diana's note, Mr. Cantilupe
strolled to an oval mirror at the end of the
room  a mirror surmounted by an eagle  and
looked at himself therein ; the gaze at his
visioned self was prolonged, meditative,
scrutinizing  not the enamoured glance of the
vain youth in the lake, whose fabled history

F 2

has been carried down the stream of Time in
the white garments of Narcissus ; nor the
fussy peering of a Mr. Dally, who is much
exercised about the last thing in ties, or the
irritable condition of his complexion ; but the
intensity of a gaze directed inwards, which
would read an answer to a query ; the steady
gaze of absorption, complete, entire, unreserved.
What the mirror answered Mr. Cantilupe,
who shall say ? He passed his hand over its
glassy surface, as if to obliterate his own
image, then returned to the mantelpiece and
re-read Diana's letter.

Shortly after he went to a cabinet, a priceless
thing, with a tragic history which ]\lr. Cantus
knew, and none other ; took out some
fragrant paper monogram ed with a strange
device, culled from Egyptian pyramids and
encircled with a crown  Mr. Cantilupe owned to
no generations ; he would have sunk amongst

the herd with genealogies  and wrote an answer
to Diana. It read thus :

"You are the Great Diana, and already I
see, as in a mirror, crowds falling down before
you, as they did before that Great Diana of
the Ephesians.

** Your inspirations are culled from that
fruitful mother of genius, Nature. All who
would join the world of art or letters must
study her profoundly ; first of all in her
mystic breathing, interpreted through the,
medium of her matchless productions, and
secondly in her offspring, the children of
men.

To you I will be at home on Tuesday at
the hour you mention, half-past three. You
must come alone ; I see but one at a sitting.

Cantilupe.

M Street, Grosvenor Square,

"January 29th''

'shall he then, cutting the stays which hold him fast
to the social state, put out to sea ivith no guidance hut
his genius ? "

The county people were much exercised about
Miss Beauchamp  should they call, or should
they not call ? The question was vigorously
discussed at various luncheon tables within a
radius of a few miles from Beauchamp Court.

I think not," said Lady Masters to Francesca
and Cecilia, as they discussed the tiresome
proposition for the second time ; " Miss Beauchamp
has come out to a career  her recitations
will be ' sandwiches ' about all over

London this springs. She has left our circle,
though for the sake of Sir Golf, that lapsed
but charming man of my young days (before
he took to salmon), I have admitted a question
on the subject."

'the Literati will gather about her," said
Cecilia pensively, " and she will find them
far more of her feather than we." Cecilia
painted a little, and sang a little, and had a
dim admiration for her patron saint. She was
considered the most artistic of her family, and
Lady Masters had a nightmare of an errant
poet, with long hair and strange ways, floating
down on Cecilia one day ; so she had to be a
little stern now and then, and endeavour to
give Cecilia what she needed  backbone.

It is well she has Mrs. Battle to look after
her," said Lady Masters ; '' Mrs. Battle is a
highly respectable woman, her father was a
small squire, and unfortunate."

A small, unfortunate squire," said Francisca,
\\'ho was supposed to be rather slangy,
though this troubled Lady Masters less than
the poetic sensibilities of Cecilia ; " What a
caution ! "

True, my dear ; the misfortunes of others
are a caution to us, and we take warning, and
invest our funds more carefully, and so on."

'how charming it would be to deck a barre
with white samite, and float about with bags
of gold, which the swans could carry to those
who needed help," said Cecilia, a faint flush
creeping upwards like the dawn on her
transparent skin.

Lady Masters looked reprovingly at Cecilia,
and said, in measured tones, " Have some
filet de veaif, Cecilia ; white meat is best for
the complexion."

We shall do away with the intolerable
vulgarity of food, I hope, soon," said Cecilia

languidly. " Mr. Languedoc says sestlieticisni
is a self-feeding development."

Air. Languedoc is a very foolish young
man," said Lady Masters.

I met Miss Beauchamp yesterday," said
Francisca, glancing at her mother, with humorously
arched eyebrows. " I'm not sure I did
not offer to arrange the girth of her saddle. I
was maliciously possessed with the intention of
withholding this extract in a day's journeying ;
but mamma's settling the question was too much
for my hoarded intelligence, and out it came.
Yes, 1 met ' The Diana,' and she looks far more
of a Philistine than I do  she is charming. She
was trundling along on that old bay pony of Sir
Golfs, which is blind of an eye, and has the
staggers and the roarinofs ; but she sat it like
a  well  like an English-woman. We English
can ride ; few are our accomplishments, few our
artistic developments, starved our imaginations,

but ice can ride. Diana Beauchamp made that
old bay cob look like a palfrey from enchanted
woods."

'' Describe her," said Cecilia breathlessly.

lady Masters said nothing. When events
pass out of your reach, silence is your only
alternative  if you be wise.

'' Describe ! Who can describe ? Descriptions
had best be given over to signboard
artists," said Francisca.

Fill in the signboard," said Cecilia ; " Fm
curious."

'' Her hair is flecked with gold, and her
eyes are like leverage ; she flashed ten thousand
thank-you's to rue, for I did strap up the girth ;
it had become loosened, and of course she had
no groom. I was stumping along when I met
The Diana.' Her upper lip  well, it's caught
up in the clouds by the Loves, or the Muses.
And her figure ! I thought mine tolerable ;

but the greatest of her charms consists in this 

o

she is poses

Rose on what ? " said Lady Masters ; " fixing
her piece nez ?'

"On her ruined estate, to be sure," said
Francisca laughing. " Nothing makes people
so post as the consciousness that their fortune
must consist in their own attainments or
achievements. We may be pose from borrowed
surroundings ; these swept away, where are we ?
She is pose because she is so extraordinarily
gifted, we hear."

* We hear ' and ' they say,' never a word
of truth in either," said Lady Masters ; " but
what passed between you ? " And then she
gave her silk dress the slightest shake in the
world ; she felt irritated, for both Cecilia and
Francisca seemed to think the honour conferred
was on Miss Beauchamp's side rather
than hers.

Salutations ; notliincr more. I took far
more interest in her than she in me."

'' What do you desire me to do ? " said Lady
Masters, after a long pause and another
diminuendo shake of her silk dress.

Call, like a love," said Cecilia.

Yes, like a popsie  mammiekins," said
Francisca. So the question was settled.

A DAY IX February.

/ am made immortal bij apprehending mis possession of
incorruptible good''

'' .4 every pool relied s the image of the sun, so every
thought aid thing restores tis an image and creature
of the supreme good''

'* Three dreadful days a-doing ; we can't
compass our work under." So said Diana to
Mrs. Battle, as they rattled along in a nerve-shattering
cab to the quiet rooms in Kensington
which they had engaged during their stay
in London ; for on the following day Diana
had to keep her appointment with Mr.
Cantilupe.

We might as well stay the week," said
Mrs. Battle ; " the rooms are engaged for a
week."

"Dear soul," said Diana, looking with a
certain winsomeness at Mrs. Battle, which
somehow rendered any term pleasant from
her ; " how I delight in you when you carry
me on your ample shoulders I The accusative
keys are yours, the banking accounts are
yours ; all I have to do is to courtesy to
fame."

February had just entered, and London
showed a grimy face of expectancy. Diana
felt too restless to sit down amidst the distressing
details which make up the sum total
of most apartments. A new phase was about
to open before her  new interests and new
hopes.

Leaving; Mrs. Battle to make things comfortable,
she soon wended her way to Kensington

Gardens, and found herself listening
delightedly to an early blackbird who could
withhold his love-lore no longer. The air
Alas soft, and a pale sun shining : the trees
were full of promise. He had a paean of
praise within him ; he must tell it out : and
so he sang high up on a cedar tree, which,
with many others, shows a melancholy desire
for the native soil of Lebanon. "Ah! my
blackbird," thought Diana, "if Kant saw
Heaven in a swallow's eye, surely I hear Heaven
in your note."

Wandering on, she passed old Kensington
Palace, and fell to admiring the soft tints
which ao-e has left on the red bricks of which
it is built. She passed out at a low gateway,
lingering to admire some cherubs which are
quite exquisitely rounded in limb  Engbsh
chefs'd'ceuvre. These cherubs hover over the
doorway of an arbour which flanks this entrance

to Kensington Gardens, and invites Ics
mmrahlcs to be seated within its gloomy
shadow.

harbours  at all times the most unwholesome-looking
retreats, where even '' sweet lovers "
must surely feel a creeping sense of impending
woe  in London look more abject than elsewhere,
for no roses climbing about them, or starry
clematis, beckon you in with alluring promise
of a downy hour. They stand up like paupers
in a museum, surrounded by wealth that they
dare not touch.

Now Diana is faced by a church, or is
it a small cathedral ? The door stands open,
as church doors should. "This is like Italy,"
she thought, as she entered ; there the churches
are always open, and some kneeling figures
telling their beads. Kneeling, Diana . gazed
long at the eastern window. It was rich
in colour, and the subject was one round which

the strongest hopes and fears of Christendom
have gathered  the Passion of our Lord.
The bowed form of the Christ, rocked in
an agony of supplication beneath the ilex
groves of Gethsemane, smote Diana with a
sense of sin. Ah ! corroding touch, is there
one can say, " I know it not " ? And then the
remembrance of St. Augustine's words flitted
across her  ' Sacred Wounded Side, from
whence flowed the two Sacraments"  ' Bathe
in these and be clean." The blackbird was
still singing in the cedar tree as Diana retraced
her steps, but this time she did not notice his
song. She was pondering over the magnetism
of Faith.

Mrs. Battle greeted Diana with many exclamations
of joy on her return. " I was
quite alarmed about you. Miss Beauchamp,
you were out so long ; this big London is as
full of snares as a field full of gin-traps. Is

VOL. I. G

your purse safe ? You should carry it as I
carry mine ; it cuts two ways  being difficult
to get at, it strangles the desire to spend ; and
as for a thief, he must needs be a cunning
fellow who would find a pocket three
materials deep. You look tired, dear heart.
Sit down and rest you. Let me carry your
bonnet upstairs, and I'll bring down your
shoes."

"No, no," said Diana, 'you are alluring.
The primitive woman within me cries ' Yield ! '
But I've buried the primitive woman  I'm
as rhythmic as the splash of waters. Besides,
we are oroingr to have an Emerson evening.
You are not ' acquaint ' with the American
poets, or prose poets. You don't know what
a delightful set they are, full of Old World
cult and Young Yorld life."

Emerson ! " murmured Mrs. Battle  " Emerson
! I ought to know that name ! Of course I

do ! i\Ir. Emerson, of Leominster, the dentist.
A most superior man. I'm sure the last time
he was destroying a * nerve ' he kept me most
thoroughly amused with his chitty-chatty talk
some relation, doubtless."

I have not studied the Emerson tree," said
Diana (whose eyes alone expressed laughter), " so
I can't say whether its venerable branches spread
across the Atlantic as far as Leominster ; but I
can say the mind of that gifted man branches
out into the limitless, for he projects himself
into space."

'' Dear, dear ! " said Mrs. Battle, looking to
the adjustment of the band of a neat muslin
arrangement she was manufacturing as a dressy
addition for a possible Leominster tea-fight ;
does he go up in a balloon, like those dashing
gentlemen we read about ? "

"Oh, Mrs. Battle," said Diana, 'you are a
hopeless pupil ; I am afraid I shall be like

G 2

a nightmare to you. I know after 1 recited
Lady Macbeth ' you never slept at all. I
saw it in every outline, when you descended
to breakfast."

I enjoyed it extremely," said mrs. Battle
tremulously ; *' it's true I did see Lady Macbeth
standing by my bedside, with hands so red 
so red ; and it's true I sat up half the night
staring  gasping  at her ; but I enjoyed it
extremely."

Martha Battle, recitations are not for
you ; imagination has lain dormant so long
that imagination when aroused is now but a
nightcaps horror, and therefore it shall
afflict you no more. I will confine my recitations
to Mr. Cantilupe till I find a wider
audience."

Mrs. Battle tried not to look pleased as she
put a last triumphant stitch in that snowy
throat arrangement.

LET IT BE "RIZPAH."

 Ah ! you that have lived so soft, what should you know of

the night?
The blast, and the turning shame, and the hitter frost, and

the fright.
I have done it while you were asleep. You were only made

for the day ;
I have gather d my hay together, and note you may go your

way

The Ethiopian automaton startled Diana when
in response to her ring he threw wide the
doors of Mr. Cantilupe's residence, and then
with sliding, gliding movements led the way
to the library, where Mr. Cantilupe received
his visitors. She had grasped the fact that he

was a machine made to order, though, after
a moment's survey, and looked decidedly
diverted at lier reception, as the automaton
softly closed the door, and glided once more to
the hall.

Mr. Cantilupe, after the laisse of a few
seconds, emerged from some draperies in a
deep recess which seemed made for his reception,
as it held no furniture, and the curtains
draped space. It was thus he always came
upon his visitors. To take people by surprise
is almost always to lift the veil which holds
the inmost sanctuary from your gaze. The
momentary start, the entire aspect  you are
in possession of the whole. The gladness, if
gladness there be, is yours ; the reverse, if it
be there, is yours also.

The mystic appearance of Mr. Cantilupe
startled Diana equally as much as the Ethiopian
had ; but she covered it with a graceful

courtesy," for Diana had enough old-fashioned
dignity about her, with all her Niagara ways,
to have made her take easily to hoops and
powdered hair, arranged like mountains of
snow.

The swan-dip over, Mr. Cantilupe drew a
chair (Louis XIV. workmanship) forward and
ensconced Diana therein ; then retired to the
mantelpiece, and, leaning his small head on
his taper fingers, gazed long and penetratingly
at Diana in silence.

Whether he had cast a spell about her, or
had evoked stillness, Diana knew not ; but
those extraordinary eyes absolutely checked
speech. At last Mr. Cantilupe spoke 

Miss Beauchamp, you have fulfilled my
expectations ; your recitations will be attended
by the dart of either sex. You have now but
to make your terms. Would you prefer a
salary? Forgive the gross term. Or would

you rather depend upon the profits you may
draw, merely making me your man of business
? ''

Do you mean to say you will engage meat
a certain sum a week, and yourself make
all the necessary arrangements of time and
place ? "

That is my meaning."

You know nothing of my capabilities,"
said Diana ; "how can you fix the price of my
recitations ? "

Mr. Cantilupe merely waved his hand, as if
such questionings were not weighted with
common sense.

Let me recite something," said Diana,
rising.

Let it be ' Eizpah,' " said Mr. Cantilupe,
quitting the mantelpiece, and lowering the
blinds so as to fill the room with a more
mellow liofht.

' Eizpali/ '' said Diana, dreamily. " You
have chosen a passionate wail  why ? "

Because it finds an echo in the nineteenth
century," said Mr. Cantilupe.

Rising, Diana moved towards the curtains
whence Mr. Cantilupe had made his appearance,
and thus chose her back-round. In the few
seconds which it had taken her to traverse the
room, her very countenance seemed to have
gathered the sob at the heart of the mother ;
with the hunted expression in her eyes as in
accents, which had the sough of the winds in
their anguished depths, she commenced that
song which will surely ring down the ages till
the ages are no more 

Wailing, wailing, hailing, the zcind over land and sea,
And Willie's voice in the wind, mother, come out to me !
Why shoidd he call me to-night, when he knows that

I cannot go 1
For the downs are as bright as dag, and the full moon

stares at the snow."

The passionate query ia Diana's eyes
seemed to bring before you the long stretch
of downs, mantled white, and hushed beneath
the round full stare of the moon, into yet more
breathless stillness. Surely the ground was
dead and this was its shroud ; surely never
again at Spring's soft touch would the emerald
green put forth, and the rabbits emerge from
their holes.

And now the ghostly query rang in a horrified
whisper at your ear 

 AnyiJdng fallen again? nay, tcJiat was there left to

fall 2
I have talxen them home. I have immersed the hones

I have hidden them all.
What am I saying, and what are you ? Do you come

as a spy ?
Falls ! what falls ? ivho knows ? As the tree falls, so

must it lie'*

And yet again 

But the night has crept into my heart, and begun to
darken my eyes." '

If any tiling could add to the pathos of those
matchless words, it was rung out in living,
breathing; life from Diana, the living: exponent
; the darkening heart whence those
shadows were thrusting upwards to darken
the eyes, and there to crouch through all the
weary years.

Mr. Cantilupe had listened with bent brows,
his mystic glances examining the carpet,
though every now and then when the dramatic
power of Diana reached those heights
where reticence veils, he cast one strange
transitory glance at her upturned face. He
made no visible sign of pleasure as the
recitation closed, yet an attentive observer
might have noticed that his fingers trembled
as he held them on the bell, during a moment's
deliberation.

Mr. Cantilupe for once was mastered by an
impulse  an impulse which by now was

matured into deliberate purpose. From the
moment Diana's letter had been placed in his
hand he had touched a new ana mysterious
force. He was keenly conscious of the fact,
for all his sensibilities were matters of careful
study with him. That such a force does exist,
and works the tragic joys and sorrows of life, he
was well aware ; but that such a force should
play upon him had been a matter of no small
astonishment to himself In Diana letter
he had beheld an intellectual mate ; in Diana
herself he beheld something yet more mystically
enchanting.

It is difficult to believe you are a Northerner,"
he said abruptly. " You have all the
Southern love of colour  it is declared in your
power of expression ; and you have all the
unconsciousness of ' self ' which is native to the
Italians."

Italy mothered me," said Diana ; " and I amas

much her child as if a closer tie bound me
to her."

This time, in answer to the bell, the automaton
was succeeded by a dwarf carrying a
Sevres china tray, with a tea-service en suite.
The dwarf placed the tray on a table  a thing
all cupids and roses  and retired as noiselessly
as he had entered.

I hope my domestic arrangements have
created no alarm, Miss Beauchamp." Mr.
Cantilu23e, pouring out tea and handling a
cream jug, seemed more saturated with panther
grace than ever. Most men holding a
tea-pot look incongruous : he did not. " An
enfant terrible once asked Diego, ' Are you a
child ? because if you are a child why don't
you grow ? ' Diego repeated the jest to me,
and laughed. He, like Socrates, fathers many
a jest at his ugliness. * What matter,' says
Dieoo,  how hish or how low I be since I

must crucible into dust ; and if crooked things
are to be made straight hereafter, what matter
down here, where all is dust  one huge sustain
? ' Diego is a philosophical fellow, but the
Ethiopian more so, because he never opens
his lips."

I like strange things," said Diana.

And strange people ? " said Mr. Cantilupe.

"People are to me like moving figures,"
said Diana, "interesting in perspective, interesting
in their surroundings and draperies. I
have had no intimacies ; I only know people
in the abstract."

I thought so," said Mr. Cantilupe.

In Italy life passes like a pageant," continued
Diana ; " the dress of the people turns
them one and all into pictures  'tis a humanising
dress. Then the intense blue of the

o

sky, the perpetual melody of the splash of
water, the scent of flowers, the world of Art,

all turns life into a beautiful dream. Sorrow
is there, doubtless, but sorrow with poetry on
its eyelids ; not the gaunt sorrow that meets
you at every turn here in London. I wish
all our beo-o'ars could be Italianised."

Mr. Cantilupe made no answer, but went to
the cabinet with the history, and drew out
several water-colour sketches by a well-known
artist.

Is this your Rome ? " he said.

Diana's face filled with light. Rome
shrouded in mist ; Rome with Artemis veiling
her face from its paganism.

He has painted more than he saw," said
!Mr. Cantilupe. " He was an artist indeed ;
and yet it was not till a great modern writer
perhaps the greatest we have for rhythmic
melody of words  turned himself into a street
crier, shouting his friend's perfections into a
dull and unappreciative ear, called the 'public

ear,' that he was at hist enshrined as a
genius."

What of this ? 'Tis by another artist, perhaps
as great ; but he has no trumpeter, so
the walls of Jericho have not fallen down
before him. Do you recognise Venice sleeping
in the noonday heat ? This fellow can
paint the air. You can absolutely see Hermes
at play."

"Venice, the home of the seven-robed
daughters of light ! " said Diana delightedly.
Next to being there, to see her touched by
the brush of a maestro is best. Italy leaves
for ever a moonlight in the soul."

'' I wonder if Cook's tourists are endowed
with moonlit minds ! " said Mr. Cantilupe,
looking at Diana with a shadowy smile.
*' Cook's tourists must come to the recitations
; but we will begin with the exotics."

Then Mr. Cantilupe took out a pocketbook,

made a memo, and handed it to Miss
Beaucliamp. He had written his terms thereon.
AYould they be hers ?

Diana looked, and crimsoned. The sun
seemed huge ; at that rate in a few years (and
what are years ?) she could redeem the Court,
and then sit down and weep for her lost aim.

You are too generous," she stammered.
jNIr. Cantilupe smiled ; but not as he had smiled
at Lord B .

VOL.

HE HAS AN UNDULATING MOVEMENT.

Events come upon us like evil enchantments, and thoughts,
feelings, apparitions in the darkness, are events; are
they not?"

After Easter Diana was to appear at the
Cosmos Hall. Mr. Cantilupe had described
the dimensions of the hall and the elegance
of the arrangements. " It is a new building,"
he had said, *' and perfectly appointed 
statuary, drapery, flowers, and many other
charming details, combine to make it a success.
The framework is there  i/ou will give it a
soul."

I should have felt terribly cast down had

you told me St. James's Hall was to be the
scene of my dthiitl' Diana lead said as she
bade Mr. Cantilupe Adieu at the station, for
he had called, and accompanied the ladies to
the train ; in fact, he had inaugurated himself
the custodian of The Diana.

I don't like that man," said Mrs. Battle,
as the train moved off; *' he frightens me."

'* What do you mean ? " said Diana ; " he is
charming. I feel my feet with him''

He reminds me of the serpents in the
Zoo," said Mrs. Battle ; "he has an undulating
movement."

And a * forked tongue,' you will hazard
next," said Diana ; *' I defy you to say he hasa
serpent's eye  glittering, restless, small ! "

''No," said Mrs. Battle, "but he is a man
who would wind about your life, and suffocate

you."

My dear Mrs. Battle, don't develop,

H 2

please don't. Your conceptions are abnormal,

preposterous ; relapse, I beseech you, into your

homespun.'

"He affects me with a peculiar sensation.

He is unlike anybody I have seen before,"

continued Mrs. Battle.

Of course he is. Suppose you lived on

nothing but ham. and eggs, or porridge and

barley-meal, and suddenly an extraordinary
dish was placed before you  the last thing
evolved by a cries such as Brilliant Savarin
employed. If you were a domi vivant your
eyes would sparkle, and goodness knows what
convulsions of joy would shake you ; but if
you happened to be a person who had no
imagination beyond ham and eggs, porridge
and barley-meal, you would turn away from
that distinguished dish with no phantasm of
appetite. Let us spiritualise our dishes. Mr.
Bovin is ham and eggs, and Mr. Cantilupe  the

last thing evolved for a gourmet. These two
men, bracketed together, make a comedy in
themselves."

"Mr. Bovin is a very clever man," said
Mrs. Battle ; ''he is a laborious man ; he has
won his establishment brick by brick  yes,
brick by brick he bought the ' Limes,' and
step by step he wooed his wife  my friend,
Mrs. Bovin. Doctor Edwards is also a clever
man. He has studied physic till he knows
exactly from one glance the state of our frames.
In the society of these two gentlemen I feel
perfectly at ease."

*' You are not afraid of the ' hiss ' beneath
the leaves," said Diana. " Doubtless the Bovins

r and Edwards of creation are estimable, worthy
people ; they are turned out by the gross,
and are a credit to their generation ; but

 / it is this ' legally speaking,' and ' professionally
speaking,' and ' in my own line speaking,'

that makes the mass of people so profoundly
uninteresting. Why can't a man be various
and branch out in all directions, and be a
many-limbed hydra, or an ever enlarging mansion
which adds turret to turret for its ever-increasing
intelligences every year. The old order
change ever ; the ' adjective ' of to-day is the
noun ' of tomorrow."

Mrs. Battle was listening, and endeavouring
to follow Diana's flights, much as a bandy-legged
pup tries to keep ]pace with a fox-terrier
who is on the scent.

Imagine," continued Diana, " bow fatiguing
to strike one note on an instrument all your
life long ; you may produce the tone soft or
hard, but 'tis still the same note. Life is made
up of these one-note people. The professor
of Sanscrit is all Sanscrit ; the mamma and
her baby is all baby. We have a succession
of drawers in our mental cells. Let us fill

them. Mr. Cantilupe's cupboards are uncommonly
well filled."

Cupboards ! what cupboards ? " said Mrs.
Battle, pausing in the midst of a consumption
of sponge-cake she had produced from her
travelling-bag  of course she carried supplies
for journeying loss;  "Miss Beauchamp, it
is like a game of battledore and shuttlecock,
talking to you."

Hit out, my homespun. Hit out right
and left, you will catch something by-and-by
 if not the shuttlecock, then its shadow.
I remember once hearing a very clever young
Professor lecture to a crowd of us admiring
ladies, on some subject which was supposedly
beyond our reach, though we were therefor
the express purpose of hearing what
he had to say on this particular question.
Sometimes, as he paced up and down the platform,
he seemed withdrawn from our gaze

altogether, as some new abstraction flitted
ghost-like before him. We sat all eyes, and
pricked ears  listening ears  don't they look
precocious ? Sometimes I've sat and looked at
an assemblage of ears, divorcing them entirely
from the other members, and an extraordinary
effect is produced. The Professor threw out
an obscure hint, then a full-blown theory, and
we scrambled. ' Catch what you can,' said he,
complacently, ' follow as best you are able.'
The brightest intelligence amongst us dulled
beneath such labelled incompetency ; we, one
and all, soon lost our ' proud carrying.' "

Miss Edwards, the Doctor's sister, is most
anxious to see you," said Mrs. Battle, shutting
up her bag for half an hour. " She is the
most scholarly lady in Leominster ; ask her
what you may, she knows all about it ; she
studies a big book, called Beetons Universal,
or some such name ; I believe she knows every

word of it by heart ; and she knows everybody
by name and reputation ; and she knows all
the ships that have been wrecked, and the
captains of them ; and all the steamers that
sail round the world, and the time of their
sailing ; and all the banks that have broken,
and the mines that have blown up, and the
companies which have sunk. I think you
would like her very much, she is so well
informed. It's astonishing  her information,
and yet she has only lived at Leominster."

Just as well," said Diana gravely. *' She
would have been even more effrai/ante than she
is, if she had added on travelling experiences.
It is fortunate she has lived between the covers
of Beetons Universal. What dreadful knowledge
1 "

Still, you will see her when she calls,"
said Mrs. Battle anxiously. " She is a very
useful person."

I see everybody who wants to see me,"
said Diana.

You are so like Sir Golf in some ways,"
said Mrs. Battle ; "he was so approachable.
Very different to your father, I believe."

Diana's face clouded.

"Papa was too exquisite'  poverty is at
daggers-drawn with the * exquisite.' To possess,
whether you will or not, the ' grand air,'
and then to have but few coins in your
pocket  is it not provoking ? Does it not make
the world scowl on man or woman ? Of
mamma I have but a dim recollection. I remember
her bidding me good-bye at school in
Rome. I was a small child  this was the last
time I saw her. She was the practical part of
papa, I believe. He became very reckless
after her loss ; but of course you have heard
all these details from Sir Golf, tlioiio-li he
showed so little interest in us, I can scarcely

believe he mentioned the filling in of
events."

Mrs. Battle shook her head, as she drew
another sponge-cake from her bag.

Salmon took the mastery of Sir Golf," she
said, munching.

Eoman fever, the scourge of the country''
continued Diana  " which never attacked me,
perhaps because in Italy I breathe my native
air  took its remorseless hold on papa, and I
was left alone ; but for ' the Philothea,' I know
not what would have become of me. I had
walked to the Campagna ; it was a long way,
and I was tired. Yet I was happy, for I could
feel alone with the earth and sky, and sometimes,
notwithstanding all its beauty, the very
majesty of Imperial Kome, with all its ruined
bygone greatness, falls like a sad-coloured mantle
on your spirit. You can appreciate my meaning
in some degree, if you think of picnicing in

Westminster Abbey. Kome is one huge extended
magnificence of colossal grandeur and
ruined might. Rome seems to cry through all
her streets, ' See what man can do ! See from
whence he has fallen ! ' I think had Darwin
lived in Rome instead of Kent, he would hardly
have worked out his theory of the monkeys.
Here is colour and melody and beauty, and its
Nemesis, ruin, tracking it everywhere. So I
had gone to the Canqjapia, I had the long walk
back before me. The road was dusty ; but, as
I said before, I was happy. A carriage drove
slowly past me. A lady was thrown back in it ;
perhaps, for all my inward content, I looked
forlorn. The eyes of this lady alighted on me
meditatively. She desired the driver to stop.

'' * You are tired,' she said gracefully. * This
is such a dusty road. You are returning to
Rome. Bo let me drive you there. I am so
dull!

Thus graciously accosted, I did not refuse.
The result of this drive you know  recitations
all over Italy, followed by my summons here.
Mr. Cantilupe says recitations are peculiarly
adapted to the mood of people just now'

I wish you would not place your affairs in
Mr. Cantilupe's hands," said Mrs. Battle. " He
is so like the serpent I saw at the Zoo yesterday.
So dreadfully like  dear, dear."

You have localized the serpent," said Diana ;
"he was ranked plural just now. Still, Mr.
Cantilupe is decidedly ' singular ' ; you are right
there."

Flying A KITE.

Smile like the knot of cowslips on the cliff not to he come

at })]) the inciting hand''
One comfort is, that great men taken u}') in any way are

profitable company."

Sir Blaise had lived the life of a hermit 
making due allowance for an entourage which
left nothing to be desired  for three months.
He had not, it is true, looked out on four bare
walls, told his beads, lain prostrate on a damp
floor, resorted to rigorous penance, abstained
from meats ; those outward signs of an inward
struggle had not been his. None the less he
had looked inwards for the first time at his

spiritual structure (for, pass by the fact as we
may, each one of us holds within us two worlds,
the one terrestrial, the other celestial ; we are
linked, indissolubly linked, with the latter,
temporarily with the former ; yet to behold
us, one would think surely the reverse must
be the case) ; and had seen a strange procession
sweep up and down within those four walls. Sir
Blaise could hardly lay the pleasing unction
to his soul which is the peculiar quackery the
poor man plasters Its soul withal  " I never
does no harm to nobody, and I does what I
can."

No, no ; there were a great many flies in
the apothecary's ointment. When death had
gripped him, those "flies," how they tormented
him ! All the same, he was floundering about
in hopeless confusion  a confusion as helpless
as befalls an amateur when flung into the ocean
by an expert.

Books of theology presented themselves
before him, and he read them ; hard facts,
uncompromising truths, hammer and nail,
screw and pickaxe.

Sir Blaise sat in the library at Whitefriars
with the pale winter sunbeams chasing each
other over the open pages, as if to caress his
quest, and to promise light. When a man thus
sits down deliberately to find out his God, and
to face the mystery of his being, how godlike
he seems !

Meantime the county commenced to be
seriously curious about Sir Blaise. Was he
going to retire for ever from all society ? He
had thrown up the mastership of the hounds,
the first step in that direction. Sir Blaise
give up hunting! He whose 'tally-ho" was
like the glorious cry of some Nimrod, was he
going to turn Whitefriars into a monastery ?
Was he going to follow in the footsteps of

Father Ignatius ? Pity was, Whitefriars had
been restored ; it would have carried out past
traditions far better in its ancient guise. Was
Father Ignatius at the bottom of it ? Sir
Blaise had been at Brighton not long ago, and
the Father was there at the same time. By-the-bye,
what had taken Sir Blaise to Brighton ?
These invulnerable always caught it in the
end, and that pretty severely ; it must belove."


Yes, it was love. They were quite sure it
was love ; when a man turns recluse, be sure
love is at the bottom of it. Nothing else
will drive him to such extremes. Money loss
will sour a man up, and he will perhaps
fly the country, or go about with a dog-leaved
lip, and throw couleur de jaune on
everything, but he won't shut himself up.
No, 'tis love makes people cry, " Muffles !
Shuffles ! Tie up the knocker. Say I am

VOL. I.  1

sick ; nay, further, dead." 'Tis love consorts
with ashes and bosoms solitude  love which
flowers and maddens and wreathes and twists.
Yes, yes !

Miss Edwards, the Doctor's sister, had perhaps
heard all about it  the county must really ask
her to luncheon. So Miss Edwards received an
invasion of notes, and looked unutterable, and
read up Bretons Universal, and plastered her
hair in straight lines on either side till the
parting widened terribly, and wore " kids " at
bedtime to get her hands as white as Lady
Masters' s, and went forth scrub and brush and
cram to her luncheons.

That she had no information was her oivn
information ; she was to be feasted, and she
must bring a " dole " for that feasting. That her
brother was reticent  madly reticent  was not
her fault ; that he never gave her the smallest
iota of information concerning his patients was

the fault of that mad reticence. Oh that he
were like dear old Doctor Gosling, the allopathic
and general practitioner, who was brimming over
with details and on dits about other people's
patients, to say nothing of illustrated volumes
concerning his own.

The Doctor  for it was thus Miss Edwards
named her brother, even in thought  was
buttoned up in silence. If he would but
take her advice, and study Breton, he would
be able to hold his own and show up as she.
Yvhere would she be without the Universal?
Beneath the heel of everybody. As it was,
she could fetch and carry for picked intellects,
for even these get hazy now and then over
dates and birth-places, and so on. Miss Edwards
went the round of her luncheons, and flew
a kite, and then recovered it to fly it a yard
or two farther. She rather enjoyed this kite-flying,
for the eyes of the county were

I 2

looking on, the weather all that could be
desired, and the kite, enfin flying up in a gale
of hurry to descend in a dead calm.

Stupid old thing ! " said Francisca (for it
was especially at the Masters's she had displayed
her powers); "the  stupidest o\(\. thing
that ever came cackling into creation. She
knows nothing at all about the matter.
Doctor Edwards is not likely to give his
patients' secrets up for her to arrange them
into mother tinctures, and distil them in
globules and piles."

Of course," said Lady Masters meditatively,
Doctor Edwards carries the key to this
extraordinary seclusion on the part of Sir
Blaise. Medical men become a species of
Father Confessor."

"Medical pets," said Francisca; "from one
pulse to another  that is the way with most
young ladies  myself excluded. But very

lively people, such as myself, seldom have a
pulse."

Cecilia looked down. Francisca was so
terribly straight; but then Mr. Languedoc
had never sat at her feet, with eyes full of
dreams, repeating Mariana in the South.
Would Francisca have come through such a

o

moment as that, and still find herself without
a pulse ? Was it not enough to give anybody
a wild pulse ? Cecilia was smiling pensively,
and Lady Masters, glancing at her, had a
vision of Mr. Languedoc's pale eyes, long hair,
and slight form  through which Cecilia declared
the moon looked. She drew up her
figure bracing, and said 

Cecilia, what of your tonic-sol-fa ? Persistent
practice is the only method of cultivating
the vox guiana."

*' What peculiar noises we do make through
the medium of our vox humanise'' said

Francisca. " Neighing and braying, and balling
and crowing, each of us carries our duplicate
animal somewhere. My last idea is to
make a collection of the afflictive human noises
I have heard. I shall call it the most original
onic-sol'fa on record. It will include Mr.
Alcock's * bray,' and Mrs. Yesey's ' wee-wee,'
Count Gleaner s * surprise snort,' and Professor
Tweed's scientific ' snuffles.' I shall label
them neatly, and write beneath  ' Contributions
gladly received.' "

'* My dear Francisca, how will you cage the
sounds ? " said Lady Masters laughing.

How does Edison cage everything ? I
intend to rival Edison. Are you quite sure
there is no commercial blood in our veins, no
intervening streamlets to break the flow and
take the prose out of us ? Where does Cecilia
get her hereditary nocturnal in blue and
silver ? Where does Miss Beauchamp get her

dramatic power and Bohemian ways ? Where
has Sir Bhiise found an interpreter to solitude
? And, hotly  where, oh ! where, has
Miss Edwards derived her knowledge of all

think's ?

o

THREE PHILOSOPHERS.

Body cannot teach wisdom, God only."

He ivlio loves goodness harbours angels, reveres reverence
and lives ivitli God."

''I Wonder what became of De Quince?"
thought Sir Blaise. A college friend of bygone
years had started into life at memory's
touch. What an extraordinary amount of
bric--brac our memories hold ! And yet not
one bit of that old assemblage of value and
rubbish but has its special importance, nay,
its priceless worth. Every separate atom will
make a perfect whole some day, and when,
hereafter, we see this collection of events,

which we call " life," presented before us with
each piece fitting into the puzzle, we shall
say, " the threads were indeed deftly spun, the
results were indeed systematically gathered'

Sir Blaise was thrown back in an arm-chair
in the library. He had been so sitting for
two hours. Three " Skyes," each one as long
and low as the other, were lying on the hearth-rug
at his feet  perfect of their kind, for Sir
Blaise instinctively gathered perfection to
himself. His knowledge of cattle (allow the
word to embrace dogs) was hereditary. What
are we to do with these hereditary virtues and
failings ? Make the most of them in the one
instance, and conquer them in the other, says
Worldly Wisdom, smiling and purring with
happy ease of facial muscles.

But suppose you have inherited a traditional
past, wherein the exotics of a cultivated understanding
bloomed happily in the midst of

stately surroundings ; and suppose the rolling
centuries had carried root and flower away,
leaving nothing but the exquisite fragrance
which has floated down the ages to haunt you
like a dream ; suppose yourself also to take
birth in Cremation Villa, and to be snuffing up
commonplace odours and feeding on the medium
intelligences of beef-eaters and the " sample "
type of cult ; and throughout your nature,
and for ever stealthily wafted towards you,
is the subtle fragrance of that inherited
memory making you like a mute note or a
discordant string amidst your surroundings ; 
what a succession of mauvais quarts cohere
your life must be as you move awkwardly in
your ill-fitting garments, unless you have lost
yourself in the transcendental glories of the
future  which is the common heritage of all
who will to possess it  and let a rarer, sweeter
fragrance from the garden of our restored Eden

overpower that baleful inheritance which made
you like a sparrow on the house-top of Cremation
Villa. Hereditary knowledge as to the perfections
of cattle, and cattle had descended to
Sir Blaise ; so if you wanted to see either
horse or dog or heifer without a flaw, you
had best pay a visit to Whitefriars.

The three Skyes where of one mind on one
point  passionate attachment to Sir Blaise.
There is something inexpressibly charming ina
door's love. It has elements of exceeding
beauty. To be loved with a dog like attachment,
for staying powers, and indifference to
cold or warmth, time or place or circumstance,
you will not find easily surpassed. Every
human love would do well to have some of
these rudimentary instincts linked to its higher
capacities.

The Skye breed have the virtues of
their race very markedly developed. First,

faithfulness  absolute and entire  you only till
death and after death ; then patient watchfulness
 your step, through the patient hours
waiting for you  your very expression is
scanned. If you are in trouble, your dog
knows it  and his mute sympathy is yours.
If you are gay  your dog shares in it  his
delighted wags and glad barks are yours ; he
is one with you, whatever your mood. Surely
God gave us dogs for a peculiar form of companionship.
How dull our walks would be
without them ; how lonely our homes ! A
home without animals is imperfect. Fidgety
people, with their notions of " mess," how we
pity them their loss, and rejoice in our gain.
That dear old hidden bone is the expression of
a faithful presence that we would not be without
for the most orderly "just so" arrangements.


'bury me with my dogs about me," said

.

Frederick the Great, " for they are my true
friends."

Three long heads lay on the hearth rug in
unbroken line, and three pairs of eyes were
meditatively gazing into the fire.

I wonder what became of De Quinceyy ? "
Sir Blaise's voice broke the stillness.

Diogenes, the eldest of the three, immediately
rose, and, after stretching his long lithe
body, sat staring at his master with an unexampled
expression of knowledge, derived
from vast and cultivated reflections. There is
in this peculiar breed of Skye a very depth of
meaning in their eyes. The " Rubbed Philosopher"
at the National Gallery has just such
an expression, and it is in no way exaggerated.

Socrates followed on, and helped himself to
a stretch by placing two paws on Sir Blaise's
knee ; while Plato sneezed, and threw out a
platonic in illustrative fashion, by dashing at

Dio's tail. Plato was the youngest of the
three, and the most flighty, having many a
time to be held between Dio's paws and shown
the philosopher's teeth, as he growled out his
contempt for the platonic which don't exist
except in theory, as life is too real for such
cloaked sentiments.

*down," said Sir Blaise; and down sunk
the philosophers into dreams and speculations
once more.

I recall him perfectly well now," mused
Sir Blaise. " We heathens used to get away
from hin ; he made us feel swinish. I remember
once going to his rooms at Balliol, and
thinking in what a mediaeval style he had done
them up. He never gave ' wines ' or joined in
any larks, and his nickname, St. Gussy, seemed
to fit him like a monk's cowl ; yet there was
nothing effeminate about him. AVhat biceps
he had ! I remember asking him, ' Why don't

you go in for the Blue ? you ought to throw
those biceps of yours into the national service
' ; and his reply  ' I have another race on
hand, one the less real for being supernatural.
I've to hit out against a common foe,
a wily fellow, who has a thousand masks and
a million garbs. I'm alive to a fact at last,
thank God ! Lucifer has fallen from Heaven,
and his chosen seat is Earth. This race beats
all Earth's races hollow  it takes all a fellow's
time and energies.'

But I remember expostulating with him,
There are so many opinions on this subject.
What are all these scientific fellows telling

us ? '

' What, indeed ? ' said he, with a short
laugh. ' The origin of many things, but not
the origin of sin. They may boil down everything,
but they cant boil down that. They
had best go back to Eden, and, in a reverberation

*' hiss," which has circled down the
ages, look into this matter, for it's vastly more
important than the formation of strata.'

"Years have passed since then. I wonder
if a letter to the University Club would find
him. Well, I can but try."

Rising hurriedly, Sir Blaise Avrote a few
lines to Keith de Quinceyy, and then, with
more alacrity than he had shown for months,
ordered his horse, and, for the first time since
his accident, went for a ride.

'tis a VANDYKE.

Through the years and the centuries, tl trough evil ages,
through toys and atoms, a great and beneficed tendency
irresistibly streams."

"He that can discern the loveliness of things, ive call him
Poet Painter, Man of Genius, gifted, lovable."

Easter had come, and brought with it such
a flight of golden days that but for almanac
and vegetation you might have closed your
eyes, and, as the soft air played about you,
cried, " It is summer  it is summer ! "

Beauchamp Court looked like some old enchanted
spot which had fallen asleep under a
spell. The gardeners had forgotten all about

VOL. I. K

hoes and rakes ; and so Nature was having a
lawless time, running wild with careless
exuberance  that was all.

The rabbits, too, had such games, from
morning till night ; they began to know all
about Diana, and scarcely took the trouble to
get them to their holes, when they heard the
sound of her footsteps. She was their friend.
One venerable bunny had told them so. She
had been guilty of leaving her young, one
day, at the sound of Diana's moving drapery,
and scampering as fast as her hoppers would
carry her down a glade hard by. But once
hidden in the long grass, she had peeped out,
and seen Diana go to her burrow, and put in
her hand, and bring out first one little soft
ball, and then another and another, and lay
them against her cheek and kiss them, and
then gently replace them.

Madame Bunny spread the news far and

wide, so there was joy among the multitude
of rabbits.

Diana was never weary of rambling about
the grounds. Beau champ was already very
dear to her, and its redemption her absorbing
aim.

Every tree of you shall be out of the mortgagee's
hands. I'll have the right to turn
tree-hewer, like the Premier, if I will. Not
that one of your glorious frames shall be
touched ; live on you shall, and gather about
you the birds, with their loves and their nests
and their songs, till Time destroys or lightning
blasts."

She was standing beneath a chestnut which
was already in bloom, for Easter fell late.

As these thoughts were flitting through her,
the avenue, with its grand sentinels, faced
her ; and a book was in her hand. She was
studying " Eizpah " in every detail of its light

and shade ; also a selection from the American
poets, which she had decided upon reciting at
lier first appearance.

Her eyes were bent upon the open page
now in utter absorption, so she neither saw
nor heard the approach of Mr. Cantilupe (for
it was he coming, with the undulating movement
so obnoxious to Mrs. Battle) towards
her, closely followed by Diego.

'miss Beauchamp! "

Diana started ; his voice was at her ear.

Mr. Cantilupe ! "

'' Yes, Mr. Cantilupe. I have caught you, as
I expected to catch you, engrossed with your
art. Study, study, 'tis the only way to win
renown, though artistic germs must of course
be there to cultivate in the first instance. I
am here, because I have much to say to you
about Cosmos Hall. The time is drawing very
near."

How good of you to come all this distance,"
said Diana. She had been so entirely alone for
the last few weeks that the sound of a fresh
voice had seemed strange to her at first 
much as a recluse feels an alien when suddenly
hurled into a crowd.

Nothing good about it," said Mr. Cantilupe,
extending his taper fingers, and waving all
goodness out of his way.

You have not walked from Leominster,"
said Diana suddenly, aghast.

Mr. Cantilupe again waved his hand as if
shunting all inquiries.

"Your servant will be tired," continued
Diana.

Mr. Cantilupe stroked his moustache, and
said, " Diego and I are of one mind  we know
nothing of that malady called fatigue."

You must stay now you are here," said
Diana. " I have a big establishment, as you

may perceive." There was a mocking smile
about Diana's lips.

"Yes, I perceive," said Mr. Cantilupe. "We
will partake of your hospitality till nightfall,
when Diego and I will retrace our steps to
Leominster. I have enaafred rooms at the
Green Man ' till tomorrow. The most out-of-the-way
inn or hotel I could find. I am
addicted to out-of-the-way spots.

"You have a charming place, Miss Beauchamp
; it only needs a * kiss ' to wake it all
up. The cook would begin to bake the bread,
the scullery-inlaid to peel the potatoes, the 
ah ."

Mr. Cantilupe was very fond of breaking
ofi in the middle of his sentences  these
peculiarities lent themselves to his role; did
he think he would be the Prince ?

There was a biisht wood fire in the hall,
and before it lay Diana's two vaiiricns  Leone

and Muscatel ; it would be kindest to call
them foreigners, or varieties, for into their
pedigrees only the very foolish would dive.

At the sight of Mr. Cantilupe they rose
simultaneously, and snarled long and low,
gathering about Mr. Cantilupe's legs, and
muttering dislike at the visitor.

Mrs. Battle, who was peeping from the
dining-room door, murmured, " Sensible brutes !
they see what I see. Miss Beauchamp, for all
her talent, is so ' headlong "

Your canine friends are not so hospitable
as their mistress," said Mr. Cantilupe, as he
glided after Diana to the drawing-room.

"They have the manners of their class, I
suppose," said Diana. '' They are not sufficiently
well-bred to smile and hate at the
same moment  that is a matter of culte ;
nevertheless, Leone and Muscatel are of priceless
worth to me. We made friends in an

itinerant fashion in Tuscany. I found them
homeless and hungry, they found me friendless
and hungry in another fashion ; so a bond
of close sympathy was struck."

Miss Beauchamp need never be friendless''
said Mr. Cantilupe, assuming his favourite
position at the mantelpiece.

My acquaintances are numerous  my
friends none," said Diana. " Friends too
often, like a gulf-stream, suck you under when
they have drained the sources of your past,
present, and future."

"When thought flashes on thought, and
subtle sympathies are exchanged, gulf-streams
are forgotten. Miss Beauchamp, you must
learn to value friendship."

In theory," said Diana lightly.

In practice," said Mr. Cantilupe, looking
at her with peculiar intentness.

Once more, as at their first interview, a

profound silence fell, and Diana could not
break it while Mr. Cantilupe's extraordinary
eyes held her. Had he studied mesmerism ?
What had he not studied ?

Mr. Cantilupe allowed the silence just as long
as he desired, and then commenced a running
commentary on the manner in which the drawing-room
was arranged.

Admirable taste ! The past and present
meet without clashing, and none but an artiste
could fuse such opposing forces."

Suddenly his comments ceased, and he
strolled towards the corner where Diana had
enshrined her treasured picture from the lumber-room.
He remained fully ten minutes silently
regarding it, Diana as silently regarding him,
thinking how he worships Art, and appreciates
genius.

It strikes him mute just as it did me ! "

But when ten minutes had elapsed, Diana

spoke. " You admire my treasure ; I discovered
it in the lumber-room. I have seen just such
treasures in Italy. Sometimes I think this is a
masterpiece ; if so, Mr. Cantilupe, I need hardly
carry out* my recitations. What is 50,000 to
an Art collector ? "

Is this modest sum your goal ? " said Mr.
Cantilupe negligently.

Yes," said Diana, interlacing her fingers.

May I remove this picture from the
wall ? " said he, after another prolonged examination.


Do ; perhaps you can find out the master."

Mr. Cantilupe had his back to Diana during
a careful survey of marks and signs by which
an original may be discovered. As he replaced
it he said, " 'Tis a Vandyke. Miss Beauchamp,
you are fortunate ; you were born under a lucky
planet."

"You say it is a Vandyke," Diana said slowly.

Have I heard you aright, or am I dreaming ?
This can't be true''

It is quite true," said Mr. Cantilupe, as he
arranged the picture in a more correct line  " it
is quite true. I have never been mistaken in
discerning an old master."

Then Mr. Cantilupe strolled to the divan on
which Diana was sitting, and, bending down,
said, " What will you do with your new
possession ? Will you keep it, or will you
part with it ? Remember, 'tis a Vandyke 
only a Vandyke." He paused and smiled,
then said :  " I have a friend (or shall I say
acquaintance ? for, like you, I, too, disdain
friends) ; he is wealthy  a Russian nabob.
Just now he has a mania for the old masters ;
tomorrow, it may be, for French poodles.
If you like he shall buy your Vandyke, and
he shall give 30,000 for it  it is not/tiny to
him. He ranks but little lower than the

Imperial House ; he has estates in every
capital of Europe. Shall he buy your
Vandyke ? Miss Beauchamp has but to
command. I will see him tomorrow. His
manias always last exactly two months. I
keep a careful account of dates in my pocketbook.
This mania has one week more to run ;
if I were to suggest the purchase of an old
master after that period, he would say 
Poiff ! I can't think, my dear Cantilupe,
whatever induced me to buy those ridiculous
old pictures. I declare I am surprised at my
bad taste. Why, one Whistler is worth the
whole lot of them strung together. No, no 
I've done with such nonsense. I'm about to
make a collection of wigs. Get me one of
the Lord Chancellor's. I'll give 30,000 for
it. And discover one of old Ben Jonson's.
I'm turning sage et raisonnable. No more old
masters for me.' We are just in time. Did

TIS A VAN FAKE. 14 1

I not say, Miss Beauchamp, you were born
under a lucky planet ? Will you part with
your Vandyke ? "

What restrained Diana from grasping Mr.
Cantilupe's taper fingers, much as she had Mr.
Bovin's dumplings, she never knew.

AVill I?" she said, as she rose from the divan.
"Will I? Why are you so kind to me ? After
tliis surely I must believe in friendship."

Looking down on the carpet, Mr. Cantilupe
said, " What of Cosmos Hall ? Will the arrangements
still stand ? But I think you said 50,000
is your goal."

I must earn the rest," said Diana, pacing
the room. "20,000 is a mere trifle now  a
trifle at least when one feels inspired, and I
do ; " and she looked so.

Mr. Cantilupe retired to the mantelpiece
again, and remained, head on hand, buried in
thought, till the dinner bell awoke him.

TOWNSFOLK.

' A manes reach should exceed his grasp ; or ichafs a Heaven
for?"

Mrs. Bovin had been withheld from calling on
Miss Beauchamp by indisposition, but she was
now quite well again, and to be quite well, with
her, meant bubble and squeak from morning till
night.

Mrs. Bovin 's acquaintance with syntax was
small, she bowed awkwardly to nouns and
adjectives, and they in their turn treated her
very maliciously, curtsying in every sentence
in the wrong place, with mock court ; but Mrs.
Bovin thought the bows and courtesies were

quite the correct thing, and no voice was louder
or more authoritative in Leominster circles than
hers.

She had looked in on Miss Edwards the
day before her intended visit to the Court, and
told her of her intention, if the weather " got
up" fine, of taking a fly, and driving to Beauchamp
; and she also asked Miss Edwards to
accompany her Miss Edwards expressed much
pleasure.

'* Legally speaking, you have a right to call ;
and professionally speaking, / have," said she,
glancing at the bird of paradise on Mrs. Bovin's
bonnet.

"Miss Beauchamp is herself a professional,"
said Mrs. Bovin, who now and then emerged
out of the regions of twilight. " What are
recitations % "

The recitative style is a kind of tuneful pronunciation
more musical than common speech,

and less so than song or chant," said Miss
Edwards.

' It's the last thing ' got up,' " said Mrs.
Bovin, who was full of positive intelligence.
'' I hear our new Duchess  the Duchess of
Alton  is orreat at recitation. AVith regard to
]\Iiss Beauchamp, poor thing, I'm very sorry
f<jr her. The property is heavily mortgaged."

Poor thing ! " echoed Miss Edwards, '' it's
very sad. To-morrow, then, at two o'clock ;
it's an hour's drive, and I should like to find
her in."

Yes, poor thing, so should I," said Mrs.
Bovin ; "but anyhow we shall see dear Mrs.
Battle."

So at two o'clock, the following day, the
ladies started, and there was no cessation of
'' talk " during the drive ; if people were silent
for half a minute, Mrs. Bovin always gave a
long crow, ending with 

What a silence has got up ! " (then a funny
little bob forward) ; "quite a Quakers' meeting."
Then crow two.

She was alive in the flesh, that was all that
could be said of her ; as for listening to
angels' footfalls, which can only be heard
in the soul's silence, Mrs. Bovin had no
phantasm of such mystic surrounding, or that
she lacked cultivation, or that there are awful
depths, as there are awful heights, which call
for stillness, that their strange teachings maybe
so much as guessed at. She had. a voice,
and she must use it : a laugh with a clans like
a gong, and it must be heard ; and she was,
beyond all, a *' dear soul," according to Mr.
Bovin, who liked plenty of light and plenty
of noise at the " Limes," in contradistinction to
the fog of law and the scratch of quills at the
office.

In the shadowy drawing-room at Beau-vol.

I. L

champ, with its quaint furniture and peculiar
draperies, for one brief second Mrs. Bovin was
quiet.

It appears very gloomy," she said in a loud
whisper at last. *' I should like to drag all these
blinds up and let the light get in. What a
contrast to the * Limes ' ! "

I have observed, in certain circles, subdued
light is much affected. The other day, when I
was lunching at the Masters', I noticed the rose-coloured
blinds there three-parts down," said
Miss Edwards.

What were you doing at the Masters' ? " said
Mrs. Bovin.

*' The usual thing," said Miss Edwards.

*' The unusual thing, you mean," said Mrs.
Bovin, crowing loud. She was still crowing
when Diana, entering from a side-door, stood
before them.

The charm of Dianass manner consisted in

unconscious grace. She always seemed unaffectedly
pleased to see you, and immediately
to draw forth all that was most comely in your
nature. She never approached the private
entrances of your inmost being, but moved
gently up and down the high roads and
broad ways, scattering a flower here and
there. She was so perfectly posse, that however
clumsy you might be, you instinctively
gathered something of her trainante
charm ; and so people came and went about
her without any of those distressing ventures
which make such patchwork of most female
gatherings. She was perfectly well-bred ; hence
she had no curiosity. If you wanted help,
Diana would have carried you, burden and
all, on her lithe shoulders many a day ; but
she would have no " sanctuary " intercourse
with you; three 'moons" would always divide
you from Diana.

L 2

Mrs. Bovin's pronouns and adjectives absolutely
arranged themselves, and Miss Edwards
let go Beetons Universal.

Mr. Bovin has been so anxious for me to
call," said Mrs. Bovin. " Of course, you know
who I am ; and my friend is Miss Edwards, the
Doctor's sister. But Mrs. Battle will have told
you all about us."

It's very good of you to come and see me,"
said Diana. " Since I left Italy I have been
much alone, but as yet I have beheld no
visions. You know what George Eliot says
about living much alone."

(Miss Edwards never closed an eye all that
night for thinking what George Eliot had said,
and her lost opportunity of quoting it.)

I talk aloud dien I have no one to talk
to," said Mrs. Bovin ; *' I daresay if anybody
heard me, they would say I am deranged ; but
I can't bear a silence ; never could ; it's so dulL

Give me plenty of conversation, never mind the
quality."

Diana smiled, and began to talk of the
Italians and the velvety texture of the language,
passing from the dialect to the country ;
and she painted her thoughts so prettily that
her visitors sat listening and staring as if a
succession of kaleidoscopic pictures were passing
before them.

Mrs. Bovin found time to whisper to Mrs.
Battle, who had finally joined their circle 

Most taking, so free  and yet so very much
the lady."

She is rare," said Mrs. Battle ; " but then all
the Golfs were rare." Mrs. Battle was proud of
this discovery ;  it was almost as clever as Mr.
Cantilupe's discovery of a Vandyke.

Mrs. Battle found time also to whisper to
Mrs. , Bovin of that discovery, and so overpowered
her that she quite forgot to put up

the windows of the fly on the return drive,
and allowed the wind to play at toss-curls as
much as it would, as she discoursed to Miss
Edwards of this wonderful piece of intelligence,
which would be a piece de residence in
Leominster circles for the next two months 
for the country pulse beats slowly, and country
fingers fumble away with the tag-ends of
startling communications, and twist those ends
into very peculiar shapes for many a day,
while London ones have disposed of cat's-cradle
at a sitting.

*****

** Did Mrs. Bovin know about the Vandyke ? "
said Diana that evening, looking up suddenly
from her study of Shakspeare.

No," said Mrs. Battle, " she was quite taken
aback."

Bowled over," said Diana. " There is a
young Mr. Bovin, is there not ? "

(( V,

Yes, an only son, at present in France."

The game of cricket is complete  ball, bat,
wicket. I have a vision, and I was only
boasting this afternoon that I have had none
since I have been here."

*' Cricket!" said Mrs. Bovin ; 'what
cricket ? "

'' Never mind," said Diana. " I told Mr.
Bovin not to mention the subject of the Vandyke
to Mrs. Bovin or anybody else till I gave
him leave'*

Husbands should have no secrets from their
wives, Miss Beauchamp."

Only legally speaking," said Diana. *' We
must draw the line somewhere."

Mr. Cantilupe would never give /ds secrets
up to a lady's keeping," said Mrs. Battle. " I
should think Diego, the dwarf, was in possession
of a few, though. He frightens me almost more
than his master."

You are malicious, Mrs. Battle, really
malicious'* said Diana. *' I have a peculiar
fondness for all misshapen people. As for
Diego, he is exceedingly clever ; philosophizes
over his own deformity, and even fathers a
jest at it."

 " Very wicked to jest at his own appearance.
In fact, Mr. Cantilupe and the dwarf are not
like other matter-of-fact people ; they are
altogether out of the way, and make me feel
dreadfully uncomfortable. If I were a Roman
Catholic I should be always telling my beads
when they are by. As it is, I really do say

Deliver us from evil ' each time I look at either
of them."

Mrs. Battle was so absolutely in earnest, that
Diana grew earnest too.

I am sure you are mistaken, Mrs. Battle.
You have lived a very quiet life amongst the
simple people of Leominster, and Mr. Cantilupe,

because he has a singular appearance, added
to a peculiar form of intelligence, and a
rare range of culture, strikes you as somebody
out of the way. You will soon grow
accustomed to him, and like him quite as well
as, if not better than, Mr. Bovin or Doctor
Edwards."

' It is because my life has been quiet that
my judgment is calm," urged Mrs. Battle
tremulously, but determinedly. " You seem to
be in no way aware, Miss Beauchamp, of the
extraordinary glances Mr. Cantilupe casts upon
you. The purport of such glances I don't
pretend to fathom ; but I cannot help wondering
of what he is thinking, or what plan
regarding you he is forming."

He is interested in me as an artist's said
Diana ; " nothing more. He has laid a great
debt on my shoulders, 'tis true, by the sale of
this picture, but I cannot see why he should

be incapable of a generous act ; he knows very
rich people  in fact, he knows the tilted

But how, Miss Beauchamp ? Who is Mr.
Cantilupe ? "

"Was there not a Herefordshire bishop
of that name ? and did not ye bells of Hereford
fall a-ringing, when from ye ancient
belfry they saw, or felt, according to bell
fashion, the worthy bishop, after a lengthy
absence, a-coming down ye road ? Suppose
I tell you that Mr. Cantilupe is related to
the sometime Bishop of Hereford, will you be
satisfied then ? Will lawn sleeves set your
mind at rest ? "

Mr. Cantilupe's ancestors are in the Zoo ;
he belongs to the serpent brood ; he is of the
seed of the serpent," said Mrs. Battle.

Then he shares a common parentage," said
Diana.

Mrs. Battle persisted no longer ; she was,

after all, but Miss Beauchamp's paid housekeeper,
though in point of connection a more

respectable ; but that was traditional.

Mrs. Battle did not often proclaim how the
mighty had fallen ; though she was without
imagination, yet she had a sound judgment ;
in fact, she was sound altogether.

LEGALITY.

WJnj think to shut up all things in your narrow coop, when
ice know there are not one or two only ; hut ten, twenty, a
thousand things, and dike."

Mr. Castille had duly forwarded the big
cheque to Miss Beauchamp ; whereupon there
had been an interview with Mr. Bovin ; and
this time his lips had been much compressed,
"legally speaking," during the whole of this
important conversation.

A mortgaged property is, as a rule, like a
Chancery suit ; and the fate of the little nigger
who fell into those courts is in no way exaggerated.

Mr. Bovin might well sit easily in the
arm-chair and dream dreams when an impossible
mortgagee was under discussion. But now, things
had indeed altered.

Thirty thousand pounds ! Mr. Bovin longed
to give way to a low whistle, which had doubtless
descended to him in lieu of estates ; but
he must remember cohere he was, and loom he
was addressing.

Ladies are usually afraid of mines," he
hazarded, at the interview under review. " They
had their fingers terribly burnt in the Emily
explosion not so very long ago ; and once
bitten, twice shy. But enormous sums were
taken out of that mine before it was sold over.
It was a case of exhaustion. I really think
people are very foolish to relegate all mines
to the land of failure because they don't always
turn out well."

Mr. Bovin was feeling the temperature of

Miss Beaucliamp's mind, and paused for a
second.

'' I shall pay off as much of the mortgage
as I can," said Diana decidedly ; " 20,000 will
now free this estate."

That's a lady's way of looking at the
case," said Mr. Bovin ; ** but not a businesslike
scheme. You might double your 30,000
if you invest it in a capital affair I have now
in hand."

I might lose it altogether," said Diana.

There is no chance of your losing the
money; once the company is floated, you can
withdraw your interest in the concern altogether,
with a considerable balance to your
account. I merely want your name."

*' I don't understand," said Diana.

*' No ; of course you don't ; how should you ? "
said Mr. Bovin. *ewe don't want ladies to
understand business ; they will lose all their

charm if they get keen-eyed and .
What is more odious
than a market-quoting woman? There are
such monstrosities now-a-days. Sir Golf had
unlimited confidence in my advice."

I am sure he had," said Diana ; " but I
think it's so much nicer to be content with
what one possesses, and not try to double it.
I am so anxious to pay off the mortgage, and
look upon this property as my very own."

Mr. Bovin drew some papers from his
pocket, with unruffled brow ; he did not
expect to get his own way with Diana tout de
mite. He had had many dealings with ladies
before ; in fact, the greater part of his clients
were ladies ; and the * dear things ' only required
a little judicious management, and
so on.

We purpose working these coal miles," said
he, drawing a map from his pocket. "Here

they are, situated in North Wales ; and in fact
I have a specimen of the anthracite coal in my
pocket."

He produced the specimen, which, however,
Diana refused to finger.

No smoke, no waste, and plenty of heat.
We have a capital board of directors  all men
of large wealth and influence."

Mr. Bovin," said Diana firmly, " you will
excuse me looking further into the matter. Mv
mind on the subject is distinctly moulded, and
no amount of pressure will alter it."

Mr. Bovin folded up the papers and dropped
the specimen coal into a peculiarly shaped glass-bottle.
He was very angry, and he could not
but show it. Miss Beau champ was the first
lady who had resisted his advice ; how odious
where clever women, how unfeminine, how un-pliable,
how But enough.

Diana sighed, she saw his wrath. Oh !

odious money  the root of all evil, and-the
source of all discomfort ; equally the plague
of those who possess it as the plague of those
who want it.

Nothing in this world seems absolutely your
own, for meddlesome fingers will turn over
your 'pieces,' or your 'joys,' or your 'sorrows'
even. Nothing is absolutely sacred directly it
is known, and if, as a clever writer has said,
this world is one vast whispering gallery, what
is your own ? The very waves will claim
your past as they come and kiss the shore.
Verily, Eve, when thou didst eat the golden
apple, thou didst bring us into terrible straits ;
the mystic fruit with its perfect halves  good
and evil  how equal the balance, and how equal
our conceptions 1

Mr. Bovin grew terribly red ; the red mounted
to his smooth bald head and streaked it with
rosy clouds ; he got on his legs, and they now

VOL. I. M

looked infuriated, for fury does not localize its
expression to one feature.

I think, Miss Beauchamp," he said, *' it
will be as well that you seek another legal
adviser."

Please don't be angry," said Diana distressed,
"but I ca?i'i give in."

We shall do very well without your support.
Miss Beauchamp," he said, looking to the nap
of his hat."

1 am sure you will ; 30,000 is a small
sum, after all."

Small to j/oic, Miss Beauchamp ; of course
everything is small to a Beauchamp."

Don't be satirical ; I know well how poor
we Beau champs have always been, but I have
felt rich with a shilling in my pocket  felt
as if 1 could buy up the world ; and I have
thought big sums little, and have been terribly
muddled on the point of money. I have viewed

it from a peculiar topsy-turvy stand-point, I
suppose ; but I'm set for one goal, and all that
I make will go straightway to pay the mortgage.
I may be mulisli. I'm sorry to displease you,
l)Ut "

I am retiring by degrees from business,"
said Mr. Bovin, still stroking the nap of his
hat. " I desire to spend more of my time
with Mrs. Bovin " (he did not call her a dear
soul this time, he was by far too cross), '* and
putting one thing with another, I shall be glad
to hand over all the papers connected with
this estate ; and I must repeat my desire that
you seek another legal adviser."

Diana hesitated ; she was sorry to sever the
Bovin connection, which had ambled along
very pleasantly all through Sir Golfs time,
and but for this money would have continued
to do so. She hesitated a moment longer, then
said simply 

M 2

It shall be as you wish." And so the
interview ended.

*****

Dear ! dear ! " said Mrs. Battle, when Diana
told her what had taken place. " Who would
have thought there was so much pepper in Mr.
Bovin ? I thought him one of the mildest men
imaginable."

'* Money is the universal pepper-box," said
Diana.

Dear ! dear ! " reiterated Mrs. Battle. Her
Dagon had fallen from his pedestal, and she
had fallen with him ; for she really had nothing
more explicit than ' Dear ! dear ! " to say on
the subject.

I shall ask Mr. Cantilupe to recommend
me a lawyer ; we are going to London next
week."

Mrs. Battle rocked herself uneasily, and said
Oh ! dear," by way of variation.

"I think I shall make Mr. Cantilupe my
legal adviser," continued Diana.

'soh! dear, oh! dear," said Mrs. Battle;
he will wind about your life and suffocate
you."

"The next time you take lobster salad, I
shall send for Doctor Edwards," said Diana
merrily.

WHAT THEY SAID.

Vacant chaff loll meant for grain."

Leominster circles were much exercised inspirit
at Mr. Bovin's retirement from the management
of legal matters in connection with
Beauchamp Court, and also much surprised at
the o?i dit about the famous picture.

It's the Gainsborough affair over again,"
said Mrs. Marby, the wife of an architect who
was considered a " light' and consulted about all
uprising villas.

Mrs. Bovin had given a small dinner-party,
and the ladies were in the swing of the delightful
half-hour before the gentlemen's disturbing,

yet pleasing, presence had scattered
the fragrance of their ripe convictions on all
subjects concerning town and country.

Hardly," said Miss Edwards ; " the gainsborough
was stolen  the cases are different."

o

I was allowing for a little play of fancy,"
said sirs. Marby ; " I am not a ' tidy ' talker."

''I am much disappointed in Miss Beauchamp,"
said Mrs. Bovin ; "how she could
get up ' in that fashion to Mr. Bovin, I can't
think. It appears she has a will of her own,
most ladies implicitly follow Mr. Bovin's
advice, and they never regret it."

A strong will is very unbecoming in a
young person," said Mrs. Dampyy, the widow
of a naval Lieutenant, who was always introduced
as the relict of the late Lieutenant?
our wills should be let out by degrees."

True, true," said Mrs. Farebrother, the wife
of the head partner in a very enterprising

wholesale business ; " you always are so funny,
Mrs. Dampyy."

Mrs. Dampyy had an established reputation
in Leominster as a " putter " of all things
under an original heading, and when she spoke,
everybody listened and applauded. Ladies
are very conservative  once they lay hold
of a notion, it very rapidly takes root, and
branches.

Mr. Bovin would soon have doubled her
30,000," said Mrs. Bovin ; " everything he
touches turns to gold. A brass penny is a
sovereign with him tomorrow."

The late Lieutenant always spoke most
highly of Mr. Bovin's 'head'" said Mrs.
Dampyy, ' and all his opinions I have embalmed."


The model wife, both as partner and
relict, always was," said Mrs. Bovin as she
sipped her coffee, and nodded approval.

Curious custom, embalming," said Miss
Edwards, who, having united herself to Beetons
Universal, felt it was time it was brought to
the fore. These ladies quoted their Mr.
Bovins and Lieutenants, but what was the
opinion of o)ie man in comparison with the
vast storehouse of the Universal ? Here was a
solid covering for her single estate. Knowledge,
knowledge, prolific knowledge.

'* That's a pretty conceit of Mrs. Dampyy's,"
she continued, " about embalming opinions ; but
the natural sequence is the Pyramids. Ita
curious coincidence that ' mummies ' were
brought to my mind this morning by the
Doctor, who was using some wax of that name
for grafting purposes. You know what an
amateur gardener the Doctor has become ? "

"Does he think," said Mrs. Farebrother,
whose mind ran on dissecting lines, " that
there is any correspondence between sap

and blood, or between veins and veins ; does
he dissect trees and plants like he does dogs
and cats ? "

'* Wicked ! wicked ! " said Mrs. Dampyy ; *' the
late Lieutenant said it was sheer immorality
to dissect animals."

That opinion was worth embalming," said
Mrs. Marby, who seldom spoke.

The late Lieutenant said barbarity can
never advance science. He had a great dislike
to the medical profession on account of this
fiendish practice."

Doctor Edwards is a pathologist," said Miss
Edwards ; '' in the interests of pathology, that
part of medicine which relates to distempers,
with the differences, causes, and effects incident
to the human body, he has taken up this
peculiar form of medical study."

Live and learn," said Mrs. Dampyy ; ''I
thought distemper was a dog ailment.'

' I was merely paraphmsiug my meaning,"
said Miss Edwards ; I am at all times a ' lax '
interpreter."

There is but little levity about you, Miss
Edwards," said Mrs. Dampyy.

Whereupon Mrs. Farebrother laughed again,
and said, " You always are so funny, Mrs.
Dampyy ; who but you would have thought of
linking laxness and levity ? "

'' I merely desired to express my appreciation
of Miss Edwards' versatility," said Mrs.
Dampyy, who always crossed swords with Miss
Edwards ; " book-learning is one thing, originality
another." Mrs. Dampyy, armed with her
own and the late Lieutenant's pristine conceptions,
could raise " smiles " where prodigious
learning only puckered " brows."

Miss Edwards shouldered up. She had a
peculiar movement when overpowered ; it
meant retreat, consultation with Beef on 

and a further and more daring sortie by-and-by.


Sir Blaise Panmure rode into Leominster
this morning," said Mrs. Marby, whose
drawing-room window faced the principal
street, and who made it her special occupation
to peep from behind the lace curtains at the
passers-by, and report accordingly. It was
astonishing the information she picked up in
this mode. The very formation of " lips " was
chronicled, and the meaning of " backs."

Then he is himself again ! he has his
health ! " said Mrs. Bovin excitedly. " I was
afraid he was injured for life."

He is much thinner," said Mrs. Marby,
and lined about the brow."

He had no hat on, I conclude," said Mrs.
Dampyy ; " John Gilpin over again."

Mrs. Farebrother was off once more in a
passion of laughter.

"You always were and are so funny, Mrs.
Dampyy. The idea of comparing Sir Blaise
Panmure, that handsome man, to round squat
John Gilpin ! "

The brow betrays thought," said Miss
Edwards, emerging ; " 'tis the seat of learning,
the lofty exponent of the intellectual organs
'tis the general air of the countenance."

Did he look brow-sick ? " said Mrs. Bovin,
whose vocabulary included many old-fashioned
words which linked her to the antediluvians.

I observed the lines about the brow," continued
Mrs. Marby, " because he was bowing
to Lady Masters. Miss Masters (the hold en)
crimsoned when she saw him  tell-tale, telltale."


*' It would be a pretty match," said Mrs.
Bovin.

If the lines you noticed were horizontal,
they betray perplexity," said Miss Edwards.

What were you doing at the window, Mrs.
Marby ? " said Mrs. Dampyy ; "the late Lieut,
never allowed me to stand at the window."

"I was button-holing," said Mrs. Marby,
deprecatingly. " I require the light ; I do a
great deal of button-holino."

'' That's a club trick," said Mrs. Dampyy ;
"that's what old gentlemen do."

Mrs. Farebrother now produced a handkerchief,
and buried her face. " So funny, oh ! so
funny  who but Mrs. Dampyy  button-holing
a club trick  oh ! so funny."

Perhaps," said Miss Edwards, " Sir Blaise
is in love ; love does produce lines. I was
reading an ancient ballad to-day, and it said,
Love was engraved on the cavalier's brow like
a ' liexastich! "

Fortunately at this moment the gentlemen
entered the room, and the ladies dispersed like
a covey of partridges.

Mr. Bovin filled the hearth rug with those
ample proportions which seem the peculiar
rio'ht of Englishmen.

o o

Where do you see such sturdy backs and pronounced
" wainscoting," such rosy colouring,
and such mastership of house and wife and
fiict, as amongst the villas and square-built
houses which have been erected and inhabited
after careful and laborious toil by these worthy
Saxoners ? If they still have a sturdy contempt
for all foreigners and foreign ways, they
owe it to a consumption of roast beef out of all
proportion. They are local or national, as the
case may be ; and you must fit into them, or
they most certainly will never fit into you.

I've been talking of Miss Beauchamp,
love," said Mrs. Bovin to Mr. Bovin.

She is a very headstrong young lady," said
he, flinging up his coat-tails in honour of the
flames ; " but young ladies will be young

ladies." Mr. Bovin had quite recovered his
good-humour. " Local option in all things 
eh, Miss Edwards ? "

Local option is a question much discussed
just now," said Miss Edwards.

"It is more interesting when discussed tSte-d-
fete" said Mr. Bovin, fiddling his gold chain,
and putting his head on one side as he endeavoured
to " draw " Miss Edwards.

Taken in its more serious bearings," said
Miss Edwards, " on one of the questions of
the day, for instance, I think "

"Come, come. Miss Edwards," said Mr.
Bovin, " you are eluding me very cleverly ;
but ladies are terribly clever now-a-days. I
don't intend to allow that lady over there to
become clever.

Mr. Bovin, we are among friends, or I
should be angry," said Mrs. Bovin.

Then she gave a long crow.

"Even Leominster ladies are catching the
infection," continued Mr. Bovin. " Now we
men like to rest our weary brains in the
babbling stream ; we really do. There will
be no babbling streams left. Railways, nothing
but railways, and their offspring, brains. Now,
stage-coaches produced quite another style of
being."

*really, Mr. Bovin, where have you taken
off now ? " said Mrs. Bovin.

'* Tunnels will be the future,"  commenced
Miss Edwards.

**Ah! yes," said Mr. Bovin; 'stalking to
ladies will be like journeying in gloomy
tunnels  mountains of learning on either
side. Mrs. Bovin, I dare you to become
clever."

All the ladies laughed except Miss Edwards.

A mot, as the late Lieutenant used to say,"
said ]airs. Dampyy, "is like a stroke of light-vol.

I. N

iiiDg, but few people have it in them to toss
off a wot ; it's like an omelette. A mot is
produced by the action of thunder'

There I agree with your late husband,"
said Mr. Bovin ; " first comes a crash, then
in flies the dexterous one and flashes her mot
eh, Mrs. Bovin ? "

First the flash, then the thunder ; but Tm
not nimble," said Mrs. Bovin, with a long
crow.

'never mind," said Mr. Bovin, absolutely
patting her hand, " you do very well ; you are
not a Miss Beauchamp, to be sure. We shall
see who falls in love with her : defend me
from clever women ! I hope there are no
clever women present." Mr. Bovin rolled a
peculiar glance, supposedly facetious, on Miss
Edwards, who was modestly looking down in
deprecatory repudiation of any such claim.
Then Mr. Bovin said " Ha ! ha ! " He was in a

sunny mood ; he would have smiled at a
kitten ; the dinner had been a success, and a
rival lawyer, who had set up in a most enterprising
style in Leominster, had been declared
an upstart ! and a failure ! Mr. Bovin was
perfectly happy.

N 2

TWO LADIES IN THE TWILIGHT.

 The unripe grape the ripe and the dried'' 

'''All things are changes, not into nothing,
But into that ichich is not at present ."

Mr. Cantilupe has taken a small furnished
house for us a few doors from his own ; he
has obtained it under peculiar circumstances.
He throws this  par parentheses  peculiar
circumstances. I like not peculiar circumstances,
they are shrouded in mystery or
melancholy."

Diana was sitting in the twilight of the
spring evening; the sleepy shadows gliding
softly about seemed to drape her with still

Mrs. Battle was standing in the doorway,
with a basketful of keys on her arm.

Come, Homespun, and sit down," continued
Diana ; " put away those symbols of sin which
unlock the doors of sugary problems. Would
that we had the keys to all life's problems !
We hold the key to so few ; and those we do
hold, work clumsily, and we are constantly
throwing them away to try some other, which
promises well and ends badly. I feel ' intense '
to-night ; do you ever feel ' intense ' ? The
problem that perplexes me is labelled ' dust.' "

*' Dear ! dear ! " said Mrs. Battle, starting
forward and peering through the shadows at
the shining face of the naked table and the
shabby leather of the chairs ; "I have always

found Jane most particular  clean as a new
pm.

"I am meditating on the universal sustain
Mr. Cantilupe's Diego talks about," said
Diana.

Ah ! " said Mrs. Battle, sinking heavily
into an American rocking-chair. " May I ask
if the letter on your lap is from Mr.
Cantilupe ? "

'eyes, Homespun; the glitter serpent has
stood on his glitter feet and written me a
letter."

*' No wonder you feel all-perish," said Mrs.
Battle.

All-perish ! a functional arrangement in
green and yellow ! a study in tints ! Tis
thus Mrs. Battle would rid me of my indefinable
sensations, my forward projecting,
my vague discernment of deep shadows."

*' I never can follow you, Miss Beauchamp,

never can. In my day, education was not
carried to the pitch of nowadays. We did
our samplers and our sums, and were finished
off with a rap on the knuckles, at sixteen. I'm
afraid you find me very stupid % "

Diana's lips had curved in a medley of
smiles. " I find you as pleasant as sunshine
on grass, as the scent of hay after rain ; and I
would say to all my sex, if you want contentment
and placid joy, get into a homespun."

The most economical wearing stuff in the
world," said Mrs, Battle complacently. ' Home
goods for me. Home manufactures for me.
Poor Mr. Battle used to push his joke (before
hops went wrong) at my dislike to foreigners
and foreign broods."

You were happy," said Diana, leaning
forward to watch the birth of a star. "You
were satisfied ; and the recollection of your
married life is full of a sad, sweet joy. You

were mated ; very few people, you know, are
mated. The Midsummer Night's Dream is
enacted over and over again in real life.
Shakespeare had a great many ringed couples
in his head when he evolved that masterpiece.
Mighty Shakespeare ! I shall go on a
pilgrimage soon to Stratford-on-Avon. But
tell me of Mr. Battle, if it will not pain
you ? "

Pain me ? Dear, dear, no ! " said Mrs.
Battle. " I could talk by the hour of my dear,
good, departed Joseph, who from first to last
was the most attentive of husbands ; and that's
high praise. Miss Beauchamp."

I suppose it is," said Diana calmly.

"That hops are chancy, tiresome things,
subject to blight and rot and what not, attaches
no blame to him. A field of well-to-do hops,
turning in healthy fashion round the poles, is
a sight which speaks of a beneficent earth ; buta

field of hops straggling all ways, down with
the blight, and smitten before their prime, is a
wretched object."

My poor Joseph lost by his hops. He lost
by them, and bitterly bemoaned his loss. He
fretted himself to death at last over his
troubles."

"Inward fret is as bad as rot, or mildew,
or blight ; it does its work in time, slow and
sure as a snail's walk ; it's a sapping disorder.
I can't look at a field of hops now. Ah ! but for
the underlying principle of association, surely
the tragic poetry of each life would be gone.
Association is a sacrament, however, fearful to
some and happy to others. There is in all
remembrance a sacrament of holy awe. The
awe may drive some people out into the wilds,
some it may drive to their knees ; but we cannot
escape from association. The parent lives in
the child ; the traditions of a score of bygone

centuries may put forth and bud again in you
or me. The long chain of incidents is perpetuated
in each recurring generation, and we
of to-day are grouping round them."

But Mrs. Battle had not entered into this.

"Hops are associated with Mr. Battle," she
continued, "and the blossoming of hops causes
me more pain than aught else."

As she spoke, her eyes filled with comfortable
tears  for tears even can be eminently comfortable
 stingless, comatose tears.

The cost of the poles alone is enough to
ruin you, if the hops and poles don't agree, as
it where. The distracted fields I have seen 
dear, dear ! When I turned my back on Kent,
I turned it for good. For the sixteen years I
lived with Sir Golf, I never once revisited it.
Here I have lived, and here I hope to end my
days. Miss Beauchamp, if you marry, you will
not send me away."

Mrs. Battle's homely face had gathered some
pathos to itself in the starry twilight.

Martha Battle," said Diana, with underlying
earnestness in her bantering tone  and
perhaps there is no earnestness which fills one
with greater confidence than the earnestness
which conceals its feelings beneath a cloud of
mockery or laughter  "have I not implored
you never to leave me ? 1 cannot say I am
one of few words  a form in which many
people commend themselves  for I love to
pour out my fugitive random thoughts in these
clumsy frames we call words. But ; I can say
that, should you attempt to leave me, T will
sit on your boxes, and that nothing short
of volcanic upheavals, or eruptive measures,
will uplift me from those boxes. Are you
satisfied ? "

Mrs. Battle sighed comfortably.

"We shall soon redeem the Court  we shall

soon be out of the hands of the Jews," said
Diana, resuming her idee mere.

1 think Mr. Cantilupe must be a Jew,"
said Mrs. Battle, pricking up into alarmed
speech.

Was the serpent a Jew ? " said Diana. " But
what if Mr. Cantilupe be a Jew ? The remark
I made a minute ago would have applied to
Christians just the same, had I been in their
hands. The Jews have for me a peculiar
interest ; they are a standing witness to many
truths, and on this account I am drawn towards
them."

Oily and rich, haggle and bargain, I dread
them," said Mrs. Battle ; " give me John
Bull."

Give me the best of all peoples," said
Diana. " A perfect man (and, remember, perfection
is no tribe) would have the blending
of all nations in his composition ; he

would have as many virtues as those peacocks
at Wbitefriars have eyes. I was over at
Whitefriars, by-the-bye, to-day ; and I  think
I saw Sir Blaise Panmure."

'* Did you ? " said Mrs. Battle, lowering her
voice mysteriously. " How did he look ?
Many curious tales are afloat about him since
he met with that accident in the hunting-field.
Some say this, and some say that. Before the
accident he was a hearty, cheery man, and as
handsome as a statue ; the wonder is, he has
never married. If I were a gentleman, with
an estate such as Whitefriars, would I not
marry ? Would I have a distant cousin watching
like carrion for my gold  would I ? He
used to ride over here now and then to see Sir
Golf, who liked him well, and he would talk
fish' by the hour with the old gentleman,
just to please him, for Sir Blaise is no angler.
Great in the hunting-field, that was his

delight  horses and dogs. Sir Blaise in ' pink '
is a notable sight."

"I met him on the road," said Diana, 'just
at his gates ; I was on Venture, and had
stopped to admire the peacocks. As for White-friars,
centuries must pass before association
can give a sacramental grace to such grandeur
of marble and stone. Ivy and marble won't
kiss, and as for bats and owls, what have such
melancholy flapping and hoots to do with
young magnificence ? '*

'* Some of the ancient parts are left," said
Mrs. Battle  " the chapel and the gardens."

My observations were carried on in perspective,"
said Diana ; "though Sir Blaise,
seeing a lady all forlorn drawn up at his
gates, with inquiring glances, did gallantly
invite entrance."

Did he guess who you were ? Did you
tell him your name ? Surely he would seethe

likeness to Sir Golf," said Mrs. Battle
excitedly.

"I apologized for my primitive ways and
staring simplicity, and trotted home at a jog-trot,
which is the best pace Venture knows,"
said Diana.

Dear, dear ! " said Mrs. Battle ; " I wish he
had known you were Miss Beauchamp."

Sir Blaise is altogether preoccupied ; he hasa
seeking expression in his eyes ; he is getting
rid of temporalities," said Diana.

Dear, dear ! What do you mean, Miss
Beauchamp ? "

How much do you weigh, Mrs. Battle ? "
said Diana, laughing.

Twelve stone ; but that included an umbrella,
a Shetland shawl, and my arm-bag, all
of which I would not let out of my hands."

Most of us are occupied in attending to the
weighing machine requirements. We want to

be neither too light nor too heavy, so all our
time is taken up with these matters. Sir Blaise
has forgotten all about his weighing-machine,"
said Diana.

*' Lately, he was at the gates of Death;
Doctor Edwards all but gave him up," said
Mrs. Battle.

*' He is in search of the Holy Grail ; I have
divined it," said Diana. " WHl he find it ? Will
he find it ? "

But Mrs. Battle rose from the depths of the
American chair, and took up her basket of keys,
and left Diana to find an answer to her question
in the crescent up above  in the heavens thick
with kingdoms  in the first timid note of a

o

nightingale, who had commenced his song in the
night early.

COSMOS HALL.

"60 boldly forth and feast on hinges banquet. Thou art the
called, the rest admitted with thee."

All deep things are song. . . . See deep enough, and thou see
musically the heart of nature, being everywhere music if
you can only reach it."

"Don't be nervous, dear heart," said Mrs.
Battle, as she picked up a starry yellow daisy
which had fallen from the old Eoman belt
encircling Diana's waist.

"Nerves, what are nerves?" said Diana gaily.
I am pulsing with life ; this is not the first
or second time I have tried my wings. 'Tis
true my flights hitherto have been in the blue
air of Italy ; my veins have throbbed to Italian

VOL.

vives, and I have gathered up the bouquets
which prince and peasant showered upon me
indifferently in that land which is instinct with
art.

Fears ! I have no fears ! What am I
to-night but an interpreter of the inspirations
of others ? I would translate them. What am
I, that I should be nervous ? The English area
reticent nation. Thei may not stir my
pulse and draw my heart to my lips like
those sun-kissed Etruria ; still, wherever
the people are gathered together I respond in
some fashion. Magnetism must surely lurk in
numbers."

Diana and Mrs. Battle had been in London
two days, and to-night Diana was to make her
first appearance at Cosmos Hall.

They were now awaiting Mr. Cantilupe, who
was to introduce Diana to her audience, or at
least to accompany them thither.

That gown becomes you well," said Mrs.
Battle, surveying Diana with a dim sort of
pride, which might have been maternal instinct
under other circumstances.

The gown in question was made of a curious
Venetian fabric, rich in colour and threaded
with silver. The fashion of it was quaintly
picturesque, and the careless grace of the
draping lent an additional charm to the supple
form of Diana.

Where do you think I bought it ? At a
festa in an old half-dead village in Italy, which
shook its bones together once a year, when the
festa took place.

"I bought it for a few coins. I think for
once I bargained. The sun and the warmth
and the scents of Italy lurk in its folds ; so 1
like it though it cost so little. Yes, I would
rather wear a gown with such associations
as this  for I see the crumbling old village



waking up to life at the sound of fife and
drum, and the gleaming teeth of the travelling
pedlar as he handed me over the roll of stuff,
saying : * Che, cite ! the Bonze must surely
be English, for she can make a better bargain
than most.'  I would rather have this stuff
twisted about me than one of Worth's latest
conceptions."

Mr. Cantiluj)e was standing behind a Japanese
screen which stood midway in the drawing-room.


That he had entered noiselessly and
overheard part of the conversation, through
refusing to be announced, was only natural.


In the midst of a pause he advanced, and
so frightened Mrs. Battle that she nearly fell
into the wraith-like arms he at once extended
to receive her.

Poor Mrs. Battle gaspingly evaded them,

and. sinking into an arm-chair, declared her
nervousness.

I frighten most people," said Mr. Cantus
; " I have, however, not succeeded in
frightening Miss Beauchamp ; but then," he
added, turning towards Diana, and bowing,
there is a touch of Niagara wildness in your
complex organization."

Mr. Cantilupe was reading Diana as you or
I might read a book, but he had so read her
from the first glance.

He read off everybody, for he had a strange
discernment of character, and he could lay
his finger on the point which would wreck a
man or woman, or the circumstance which
would develop a power for good or evil
undreamt of, with the precision of a surgeon
who knew where the knife must cut or the
lance probe.

Come, Miss Beauchamp, we must be

going," he said, after a rapid survey of Mrs.
Battle's features, which were settling into
placidity once more.

Now, not a word as we drive to the
Cosmos," he added, as he placed himself vis-davis
to Diana in the brougham ; " you must
be up in the clouds or down in the wastes,
listening to the hollow voice of the wind, as
with wailing accent it carries Eizpah in its
wake. Meantime, Mrs. Battle and I can discourse,
and if you mistake our murmuring
for the song of ring-doves, well "

Mr. Cantilupe was absolutely becoming
flesh-tinted, yet Mrs. Battle shuddered, and
saw the serpent at the Zoo gliding, eating
dust as it moved, more pronounced than
ever.

Cosmos Hall was thronged with the elite of
fashion and letters.

Diana's reputation had wandered from

Italy like some well-known melody ; but
without such carrying Mr. Cantilupe's wand
could evoke a crowd  a prime crowd.

Yes, here was the crowd of living souls, all,
or mostly all, curious with the momentary
curiosity which their crowded days permitted,
to see this modern Diana who had acquired so
great a reputation in Italy as the exponent of
the strong songs of poets and prose-singers,
and who uttered those songs so sweetly or so
sombrely that even the creators found no
fault with her interpretation of the colour of
their thoughts.

Cosmos Hall was fitted up with all the
latest improvements which modern taste approves,
or fears to disapprove. Nobody was
so artistic as Mr. Cantilupe without being
an artist, and Mr. Cantilupe had been the
moving spirit in the matter of decoration.

One looks so frightful in most concert-rooms,"

said Lady Mary Charteris to her pro
ten. friend, Miss No veil o ; " but everybody
looks tolerable under this rose-tinted improvement
of the electric light.

Why, I declare Miss Dare's wrists look
poetic ; see, she is toying with her fan, and
making believe Crone Felon is murmuring
unutterable, while we all know he is out on
the weather. He thinks that's the only safe
topic for a fellow with half-million a
year."

Miss Novello smiled ; the smile was peculiar.

You are a match for that dreadful Mr.
Cantilupe when you smile like that, Felicia.
You are inscrutable. I dislike inscrutable
people. Why can't we be like glasses  honest,
if sometimes displeasing. Mr. Cantilupe resembles
the ' Man in the Mask.' "

I think he is more like a double acrostic,
with fleshy members," said Miss Novello.

*' How has he obtained such mastery over
individuals ? He goes everywhere, and knows
everybody. Some people say he has a title,
but disdains  handles.' Some people say he
likes power, and so plays on human beings
as a clever performer on various instruments.
But guesses are unsatisfactory and dull emanations
from mystified intelligences. To me,
this man is interesting, and yet I could hardly
explain why. Could you imagine him making
a wronoc move on his chess-board ? He has a
grip on his enemies' castles and kings and
queens, which may well inspire them with
dread."

Where is Mrs. Cantilupe ? " said Lady
Mary. " Is there a Mrs. Cantilupe ? "

' Would a Mrs. Cantilupe come in on the
chess-board 1 " said Miss Novello. " No, no ;
she would rob him of his unique personality,
turn him into prose enfin. A wife would

naturally be a species of translation of ]mr.
Cantilupe. He would lose his mysticism. It
is very difficult to weave cobweb speculations
about a married man ; imagination becomes
frost-bitten the moment Madame appears
panting with housekeeping duties, or languid
with elegant ease. Mr. Cantilupe enjoys too
well the odd mastery he has somehow obtained
over people."

'' Some people say he is fabulously wealthy,"
said Lady Mary ; "his trade evidently pays 
nothing like trade, after all. He has a queer
trade of some sort, you know ; but, hush !
here comes Miss Beauchamp. Do you see
Tharos Savage sitting over there ? If he raves,
everybody will rave."

An English audience is, perhaps, of all
audiences, the most absolutely critical. A
Parisian audience is prepared to go into
ecstasies or to ridicule ; an Italian ready to

admire if there be a loophole for admiration
to filter through ; but the elite of a London
season are like a row of azaleas  scentless,
perfect, stiff", firmly rooted in their tubs,
demanding admiration for themselves, and
looking contemptuously on alien claims for
admiration  even though they are collected
for the purpose of seeing and hearing.

Mr. Cantilupe found his proffered hand
declined, with some explanation which seemed
to satisfy him ; and it was alone Diana faced
her audience.

The platform was removed some few feet
farther from the fauteuils than is usual. It
was exquisitely inlaid with lapis lazuli. A late
Russian prince had presented Mr. Cantilupe
with the priceless stone for some huge benefit
conferred. Large palms formed a splendid
background ; deep-hued rugs lent warmth and
comfort ; cushions invited you to squat like a

liouri ; and curiously carved chairs, which promised
to fit your mood, extended or curtailed
their arms here and there. Of drapery, too,
there was no lack ; curtains, in which the
shoaling tints seemed borrowed from the rainbow,
fed the eye with colour, and set you
speculating from whence this sense of pleasure
in colour came.

Too, too utter," commenced Tharos Savage,
as he raised his heavy eyelids, and gazed at
Diana.

I claim her," said Deuce Kant ; " she is
more of my school than yours. She is a child
of the future, a creature to set you speculating.
Before she opens her lips, I declare to you,
her spirit is dominant over body. She knows
nothing; of twilight re onions, in which the mass
of people live and move ; she holds by a world
which is peopled by the geniuses of the past,
present, and future 1 she dialogues with them

all of us sitting here are nothing to her. She
is looking over our heads.

Don't you see the forward glance or onward
light in her extraordinary eyes ? How she has
thought and speculated, and held on to the
beginning and end of her experience, and passed
and repassed from one to another. She is an
isolated being within a being, and must remain
so. 'Tis because of this flexible nature, which
corresponds with her lithe form, that she lends
herself to dramatic personating with such
accentuated ability. She will penetrate at
once to the vital point in a poem, and every
syllable will be coloured with the great fact
to which all the scene is driving. Listen,
Tharos ! I would not care to know this Diana ;
I have read her as I read Tennyson's last
poem, by the light of inner consciousness.
Best so."

*' You extravagant fellow 1 " said Tharos ;

"you are always turning people into poems,
or novels, or histories, or fairy tales. This girl
lives in a curious old moaned description of
place in Herefordshire. She wants to pay off
the mortgage, and so lends herself for our
entertainment."

'' Ah ! " said Mr. Kant, '' she will succeed if
all goes well."

If and but  epitaphs for tombstones  eh,
Luce ? "

But Luce had fallen to musing on Dianass
upturned face, as the first bar of " Rizpah "
rang through the hall, and the hush which
attends power fell on each soul.

Whether it be Tennyson, Emerson, Walt
Whitman, or that thunderbolt Shakespeare,
she is unequalled in one and all," said Lady
Mary Charteris, as she beckoned to Mr. Cantus
before leaving the hall, and congratulated
him on the success of his protegee, " I feel a

better woman for hearing her  I really do ; and
it's something to feel a little taller  I am easily-dwarfed."


Then Lady Mary asked if Miss Beauchamp
would give a recitation at her " At Home " on
June the 4th  whether Mr. Cantilupe could
possibly arrange such an intellectual treat.

"Tell her, she will turn us all into intellectual
gourmets ; and beg her to improve the tone
of our minds by her admirable renderings of
genius."

Mr. Cantilupe bent his mystic glances on
Lady Mary, and assured her that he would do
his best to persuade Miss Beauchamp to extend
her field of operations, and to go in for a regular
campaign.

She will light us up with some of her own
peculiar fire," continued Lady Mary ; " we are
such a set of unlighted candles  some tallow,
some wax, some composite ; but we want lighting

dreadfully. Miss Beauchamp is intellectually
ablaze.'

"Vulcan hovered over her cradle, perhaps
said Felicia Novello ; " certainly there is no
lack of fire."

Mr. Cantilupe bowed ; if there are such
things as proprietary bows, such was his bow.
Cosmos Hall belonged to him ; so might ' The
Diana." Mr. Cantilupe had never failed of
possessing any object he had been covetously-minded
to obtain.

Then Lady Mary moved away, followed by
Miss Novello ; and Mr. Cantilupe, bowing here
and there abstractedly, and borne aloft on the
surface of inner speculations, escorted Diana
and Mrs. Battle to M Street.

MRS. battle's last DISCOVERY.

*' But I shall say no more of this at this time, for this is to he
felt and not to he talked of ; and they who never touched
it loath their fingers, may secretly ierhaps laugh at it in
their hearts, and he never the wiser

** The papers are praising you loudly. I don't
know whether you consider yourself out of the
reach of praise ? "

Mr. Cantilupe had called the following afternoon,
and found Diana arranging flowers after
the Japanese fashion  singly.

I like to sway people," said Diana.

*' You will not read what the papers say
about you," continued Mr. Cantilupe. "The

VOL. I. P

critics have dipped their pens in honey-pots."


Diana smiled rarely. 'praise is better
than blame ; still I will not read what they
say, because I can tell in one moment if I
have caught my audience  caught the best
part of them  penetrated beneath the outer
wrappings."

*' What does Miss Beau champ consider the
best part of an individual ? Surely not the
clumsy construction shaped like a triangle, the
heart, which is for ever striving with its avowed
enemy, the round or conical-shaped apparatus,
the head ? "

Mr. Cantilupe was standing at the mantelpiece
in his favourite attitude, only the mantelpiece
was a bank of flowers, so his background
was floral.

Rival systems," he continued abstractedly,
plucking a flower and placing it in his buttonhole

 " opposing forces  the more brain the less
heart, at least I think so."

I differ with you," said Diana. " The
finest orators have invariably been men of
heart. What is a speech without passion ?
And passion is not seated in the brain, but
cold reason. If you would speak with living
power, you must have come through various
stages of human realism ; 'tis only when heart
and brain are united in the deepest and
tenderest of ties that you come across a great
orator. Napoleon was no orator  he had no
heart."

Mr. Cantilupe smiled. Diana and he were
approaching those terms of intimacy when a
difference of opinion lends piquancy to conversation.
Matters were progressing.

The pathetic in Art or Literature is the
first step towards ruin," said Mr. Cantilupe.
Gain the brains of an audience, and you

P 2

have gained the best part of it ; let the hearts
follow. But hearts ! who believes in such outre
and rustic barbarisms in these enlightened days ;
surely not Miss Beauchamp ? "

He paused for one moment, looking downwards
at the perfect contour of his foot, which
was long and thin. '' In pure Art, for instance,
the intrusion of heart is fatal. The soft smile
playing about the lips of the Hermes of Praxiteles
foreshadows the doom of Grecian Art ; the
greatest Greek orators shrink from the expression
of tender pathos."

From whence does all strong and noble
emotion emanate ? " said Diana.

From the brain. Miss Beauchamp. Possess
the brains of a man or woman, and, as I
said before, the heart, if heart there be, will
follow."

I differ with you. Possess the heart of a
man or woman, and let the brains follow ; they

are a dry and prosy set of guests, when compared
with a living, breathing human touch."

Mr. Cantilupe removed his gaze from the
exquisite contour of his foot, and fixed it on
Diana's hands, which were still busy with the
flowers, and was silent.

I shall be so glad," said Diana suddenly,
'when I have redeemed the Court, and can sit
down mute, listening only to the voices of
Nature. Is this paganism ? Inherited memories
seem to have come about me with my new
possession. I believe, after all, I shall become a
vrai Philistine in the course of time. If we change
our skins once in seven years, why should we
not change our natures ? My Bohemianisms
may drop away from me little by little."

So you would dwell alone at Beauchamp,"
said Mr. Cantilupe.

In wasteful hemify showered, thy smile unseen ;
Unseen of men.

If you would redeem the Court rapidly, you
must work hard. Will you give recitations at
private houses ? "

'Of course I will. I'm set for an object,
and to attain that object I would burrow with
my nails through any hole up into light. Mr.
Cantilupe," Diana added gracefully, "I feel
I can never thank you sufficiently for your
generous interest in me ; and the worst of it
is, I can never repay you."

'you have filled Cosmos Hall," said Mr.
Cantilupe, "and this is my latest speculation."


It would have filled anyhow," said Diana.
People will collect where such a novel style
of elegance invites them. Look at our miserable
concert-rooms ! "

The concerts of the future will be differently
organized," said Mr. Cantilupe.
Music may proceed from the heart of a

flower, or the throat of a bird ; mystery is
the essence of all beauty. Miss Beauchamp,
Diego is downstairs with some pictures I have
brought for your acceptance. May he submit
them to you ? "

Diana assented, and Mrs. Battle, who had
just entered the room, managed a " sigh "
rather pronounced.

Sighs proceed from extremes," said Mr.
Cantilupe, as he released Mrs. Battle's hand.
I could not bear to think unhappiness was
the mother of this one."

Mrs. Battle unclasped her reticule, and commenced
to embroider her initials " M. B." on
a handkerchief. She wanted to sigh again, but
withheld it, and only said, "I am (quite well,
thank you."

Mr. Cantilupe smiled, and Mrs. Battle, catching
the smile somehow, grew red and hot and
cold, and began to embroider *'M. B." upside

down ; whereupon Mr. Cantilupe drew her
attention to the fact, and then displayed his
own white silk one, whereon was embroidered
a . wonderful design, where initials were lost
in enigmatical characters.

Is this intended for a coronet ? " said Diana,
as she examined it, half negligently, half
interestedly.

Perhaps so," said Mr. Cantilupe, " I hardly
know ; but such baubles as coronets, who sets
any value on them now ? The coronet I value
is a coronet composed of brains, every Ijall one
of the sciences."

Mrs. Battle sighed acain. This man was as
far-fetched as Diana ; surely, if ever two atoms
were meant to meet, these two were ! Mrs.
Battle would thankfully have grasped the f\ict
that no two atoms really meet  they only seem
to. But she was not a philosopher, except in
an elementary style of her own  she had experiences

; and why Mr. Cantilupe reminded
her of serpents and dust-eating she could not
imagine ; yet so it was.

Place the portfolio on this table, Diego,"
said Mr. Cantilupe.

The dwarf did his behest, and then left the
room ; but, as he passed Diana, he glanced
furtively at her.

*' What a clever face Diego has," said Diana.
He looks as if he could master a secret
treaty ; he looks as if he could rise above
circumstances, and become great."

Mr. Cantilupe made no reply as he unclasped
the portfolio ; but, as he handed a water-coloured
sketch of the mountain of Samothrace
to Diana, he said, " Some people, to
attain an object, must climb many a Samothrace.
Circumstances are some people's tools,
and they carve fortunes out of opportunities as
they float by them."

Diana's head was bent over the sketch of
Samothraee. She did not notice the singular
expression with which Mr. Cantilupe was
regarding: her. Was it Love ?

Oh, mystic passion, into whose heights and
depths and awful fires few enter (perchance
fortunately), for Love has many chambers in
its wonderful palace. One room is full of
wooden toys, another full of mechanical contrivances,
another full of flowers, another full
of musical instruments, another full of delicate
viands and costly wines  each room has a crowd
of votaries.

But built far away from all these chambers
stands one solitary little room, into which
few enter, for a strange incense fills the
atmosphere, and those who once inhale it
are given a faithful memory and an immortal
passion. With them every sensibility is
quickened into rapture or pain as the fragrance

of that rare incense overpowers them.
These are they who love alway, and have
passed through the cleansing fires of divine
yet awful Love.

Could Mr. Cantilupe love ? There are thousands
of marriages and perhaps a few unions
thousands of marriages arranged, and perhaps
a few hundreds which know nothing of
arrangements, which are the fusion of spirits
who meet and, meeting, are one. You may
miss your mate. All your life you may be
conscious of some spring which has never
yielded its joyous music, because the
right wand never tapped the surface ; you
may be married by force of circumstance
to one to whom the finer tones of your
nature are like a dumb instrument  still
Love continues its pirouettes, and is crowned
with eternal youth, and introduces its
votaries into its various chambers according

as it discovers their various capabilities.


Could Mr. Cantilupe love ? This problem
might well puzzle his astute brain. He never
had, consciously, felt as he now felt for this
Diana. A great longing to possess (in as far
as one being can possess another) this rare
creature had beset him. She gratified eye,
head, and the apparatus Mr. Cantilupe playfully
termed the triangle. Yes, his eye found
exultant pleasure in her  she carried such
distinction with her. It lurked in every fold
of her drapery, in every posture, entrance,
exit, and circumstance. The warm tint of her
hair, the changing, shifting expression in her
eyes, the chiselling of her upper lip, the fine
hands and feet, all  all delighted Mr. Cantus


Then her head, not only admirably posed,
but admirably filled with just the kind of

knowledge that made her a charming companion
and spirit-catcher ; and, beyond all this,
Mr. Cantilupe discerned that there lurked in
Diana a sprite as yet sleeping, but there to
awake at some one's touch. Ah, yes ! if Diana
loved, she would love not with a bread-and-butter
love, but with tropical intensity. This,
also, Mr. Cantilupe coveted. He would like,
amidst the machinations of his life, to have
this fine gold thread weaving in and out  this
purifying love.

Mr. Cantilupe's reflections generally ended
by passing his hand lightly over his brow, as
if to sweep aside intricate or intrusive speculations
; his hand crossed his brow now, and
the intent gaze of a moment ago had vanished.
Tell me about Samothrace," said Diana.
*' I was there last spring," he said, " supping
with Bulgarians, breakfasting with Greeks,
and making pilgrimages to Olympus and

Dodona. Of course you are acquainted with
the poetic myths which have weaved themselves
about this island. You will remember
the wedding of Cadmus and Harmon ia, to
which all the gods came with gifts  Demeter
with an ear of corn, Hermes with a lyre, and
Athena with a necklace. For wild luxuriance
of vegetation nothing could surpass what I
saw  the grass hardly visible for the profusion
of flowers, and the herbage growing down to
the brink of the sea. Then the intoxicating
fragrance of the flowers ! Ah ! this island
mountain is like a fairy tale or magical
scene.

But to see Samothrace at its sublimest,
you must see it in the throes of passion ;
you must see it storm-swept, then the
changeful awfulness of Nature startles you.
1 saw it thus, the sea white with foam, and
the vast mass of the mountain of Samothrace

towering above me, its summits buried in
driving clouds, and its tremendous precipices
wreathed in mists which now revealed and
now obscured its ruooed sides."

I must go there," said Diana impulsively ;
in such a spot I would be buried."

Mr. Cantilupe waved his hand deprecating

spectre  Death  Miss Beauchamp,
should have no acquaintance with you."

Ah ! but I often think of this mystery 
Death," said Diana.

Again Mr. Cantilupe waved his hand gracefully,
and continued 

I ascended this sea mountain one lovely
morning, and felt enchantment everywhere 
shady nooks, fountains, aromatic fragrance of
shrubs, varied views of the sea and of Athos
and Eodop. But enough of Samothrace 
interesting though it be. Here is a sketch of

Thebes. You recollect the story of Amphion
building Thebes with his lyre. See the ancient
walls rising brick by brick to the sound of the
lyre. Don't you think these workmen must
have been refined in some sort by the delicate
music f

"The very bricks look cultivated," said
Diana, laughing. " Oh ! those ancients, how
I delight in them ! Surely they lived in sound,
in a world peopled with myths and shadows
which had sprung from the substance of long
ago  a world full of Apollos and Orpheus,
of Juno and Jupiter. What delicate fancies,
what exquisite sensibilities, we can trace
m the memory of these bygone peoples.
If the earth was to them full of supernatural
mystery and hazy dreams which
kindled their imagination, surely their faith,
dark as it was, was infinitely higher than
the barren tree with its unwholesome materialistic

fruit which this century has produced."


The supernatural has never had for meany
truth difficult of digestion," said Mr.
Cantilupe. "We move towards our appointed
end by steps slow and sure ; our paths are
crossed by those beings who are destined to
interminable the threads which hold them herewith
the threads which equally hold us here.
Sometimes these threads get knitted up in an
apparently inextricable confusion, and only
the Iris, who cuts the threads of life, can undo
them. Shadow meets shadow, substance embraces
substance, spirit gropes after spirit, and,
as Diego says, the dust-bin enlarges itself to
receive all

Diana shivered slightly, and Mr. Cantus
watchful eyes detected the movement.


After all, why should we shrink from the

VOL. I. Q

embrace of the prolific earth ? " said she. " How
lavish she is, how generous, how jovial ! I have
often thought if we want to catch the very-spirit
of Nature, we must see her sending
home her glorious corn, her bounteous grain.
In those sheaves I catch her smile. Ah !
she has gleanings for us all  the vast thought
of Nature. Yes ; I feel sure I shall be
willing to yield myself to her embrace
when "

But Diana did not finish her sentence ; her
eyes were riveted on the picture which Mr.
Cantilupe was holding before her.

It was a water-colour sketch of a monk
kneeling in his cell ; behind him lay in an
allegory his past life, and the powers of the
artist were finely expressed in outlines which
revealed ghastly truths. Here a skeleton
grinned ; here noxious weeds grew on the
grass of unhallowed desire ; here a dance of

J

satyrs ; whilst before him lay a tract of land
flooded in light. And as the eye rested on
this serene spot, a ray of joy seemed to fill
and satisfy the soul.

Towards this spot the eyes of the praying
monk where directed with ineffable yearning,
and even as he prayed the strange beams
from this blessed haven seemed to rest upon
his brow and throw into yet gloomier shadow
the background of the picture.

Even Mrs. Battle rose from her chair, and
came forward to examine it as Diana's delighted
exclamations repeated themselves.

"A Jesuit!" said Mrs. Battle, "a designing
fellow doubtless, and deserved to be haunted
by those dancing gentlemen in the background.
My belief is, London is hopeful
of Jesuits in disguise. They creep into houses,
and lead impressionable ladies astray."

"Homespun! Homespun!" said Diana,

Q 2

shaking her head in mock sorrow, " you are
the most accentuated Jane Bull in the British
Isles. Why can't you turn Cosmopolitan under
my tuition ? "

"Cosmopolitan! rubbish!" said Mrs. Battle.
No, no ; I have a horror of the Jesuits  all
for their order, all for your money."

'' T have always been much interested
in the order of Jesu," said Diana, turning
once more to Mr. Cantilupe, who
was silently replacing the sketches in the
portfolio.

Miss Beauchamp's interests must always
be of the genus cultivated," said he. " I have
found the Jesuit Fathers interesting companions."


I hardly like to accept these lovely watercolours,"
said Diana ; " but I could spend hours
looking at the monk."

"The monk has a history," said Mr. Cantus

: '* the picture caine into my possession
through an ancestress."

Won't you keep it ? " said Diana.

No, no ; it could not be in more appreciative
hands than yours."

Then Mr. Cantilupe looked at his watch, and
bade Diana adieu.

As soon as the door closed Mrs. Battle exclaimed,
"Mark my words. Miss Beauchamp 
Mr. Cantilupe is a Jesuit ! Oh, dear heart ! He
will wind about your life with his doctrines
and queer ways, if you are not warned and take
warning. His eyes are never off you  watching,
watching ! He has designs of some sort 
maybe love, maybe hate ; for love and hate
walk side by side. I've heard, ' Fierce love, fierce
hate.' "

Mrs. Battle looked so prophetic, and her colour
had risen so high, that Diana's laughter was
checked.

I don't like you in this mood, Mrs. Battle ;
you remind me of cows when they chew
bitter cuts. Come to dinner, and get amongst
salad pastures, and you will be my homespun
again."

A FATHER Confessor.

personality remains ; years, effects, events hopes, persons
Jilt past as in the mystic march of life; hut we
remains

That great mystery Time. Were there no other, the
illimitable, silent, never-resting thing called Time, rolling,
rushing on swift, silent, like an all-embracing ocean-tide,
on ichich we and all the Universe swim like exhalations,
like apparitions which are and then are not ; this
is for ever very literally a miracle, a thing to strike u.
dumb, for we have no word to speak about it."

Keith De Quinceyy and Sir Blaise were
strolling on the terrace of Whitefriars. The
letter which Sir Blaise had sent to his friend
had followed him to a port on his way from

China, where he had been for several years ;
and he, being a man with few ties, had hastened
to Whitefriars on his arrival in England,
to renew his acquaintance with his old college
friend .

Mr. De Quinceyy has a personality  not
only eloquent of biceps but of intellect. He
might be the leader of a party or a sect;
nothing seemed too big or too small for his
mastership. His expression was dignified ; he
penetrated you with the purity of a gaze
directed inwards. He seemed to read your
soul.

Sir Blaise was talking eagerly as he walked
up and down the terrace, and De Quinceyy
was listening with that wholeness of interest
which lends harmony to all giving and receiving,
in whatever garb or circumstance it
may be interchanged. 'Tis hard to grasp a
brass coin in exchange for a gold one, but

such is often the case in a world where full
value is but seldom received.

You cast your rich grain before a preoccupied
or unappreciative soul, and as you
retire with your sack filled with chaff in
return, you wonder at its light weight, and
sigh in secret over the unsatisfactoriness of
dealing in that market where cords are the
exchange and mart  words with their mighty
power, their pregnant meaning, their swiftly
flying attributes, which pass and repass over
oceans, continents, and tracts, to vibrate
through the aoes, and confront us in the end.
Surely language beareth many fruits ; some
good to the taste and refreshing to the soul,
and some which infect the system and give it a
meal of deadly food.

Mr. De Quinceyy was a charming listener ;
he drew your thoughts to the surface by the
very expectancy of his expression ; he awaited

a message from you  a message of some sort ;
he treated you as one who must surely have
some special revelation wrapped up in the
outward clay  some Divine foretaste or reminiscence
of that Divine Past which had
created the Adam. He sought your spirit ;
however sunk amidst the debris of time, he
seemed to compel it forth and bid it to the
feast. He raised you to his level, he never
sunk to yours. And yet, though the general
aspect of the man seemed to convey the
word of command, there was not the faintest
aggressive outline.

Sir Blaise swung his stick, as he walked
with long strides ; and now and then his hand
sought his moustache impatiently as his
spirit sought to reveal its yearnings and its
fears.

Death is an ugly fellow, De Quinceyy ; the
man who has a tussle with him knows that.

As I lay on my bed, I cried out, ' I'm no match
for you ' ; and I vowed, should God spare me, I
would be off in the quest after salvation, in
whatever form I could find it. I would be
Monk, Priest, Hallelujah-captain, anything, so
long as I could feel I had something to hold
by. A wily fellow is Death ; he shan't catch
me unawares next time. I shouted ' Fool, oh
worse than fool,' as I writhed in the agonies of
that twist which all but did for me.

Edwards heard me ; he held me delirious
half the time. At last, I thought of you ; and
now, De Quinceyy, I feel you can and will help
me in this quest ; when I bring the question
home, Have you ? you will answer, / have.
But first tell me, why are you not in the conventional
garb of the Church ? "

Because I hold no cure. I am a priest,
and occasionally I wear a coat to my heels,
and put my throat in a ' stock ' ; but my custom

is to catch men unawares, and this the
conventional ' cloth ' prohibits. A parson is as
conspicuous as a bird of paradise''

*' True," said Sir Blaise.

'' Neither do I absolutely belong to any
Party in the Church," continued De Quinceyy.
I find sympathy with all. If the High
Party have grasped the beauty that lurks in
harmony of creatures of sound and creatures
of sense, I find that the Low have sternly
gripped at the colder beauty which lurks in
an austere and simple faith : whilst the
Broad, in a great love and sorrow for the
ills of mankind, are whispering of eternal
hope and a paradise for ransomed man at last.
A sectarian spirit is not Christlike. In frequent
communions, I find the mystic bread
which feeds my soul ; I find also the corrective
to gross sin. In the mingling of trained
voices, and the mellow breathing of the

finest music, I find an ever-upward tendency
which bears my spirit to the very gates of
Heaven. My senses are keenly alive to
symbols of sound and sense ; so much so, that
sometimes I abstain from such luxuries by
retiring into the barest of churches to commune
without any of these external, yet beautiful, aids
to prayer."

' I am so wedded to a conventional belief
that has not a grain of life in it," said Sir Blaise,
I feel as if I must undo my faith to have the
right faith. Do you understand me ? "

Perfectly, Pajimure. Conventionality, 'tis
the curse of creeds ; and creeds, 'tis the laqucm
following on the heels of civilization. You
have been brought up to believe, and so it is
more difficult for you to believe than a heathen,
paradoxical though it sounds."

As De Quinceyy spoke, the pale beauty of the
spring morning slowly broke through a rosy

cloud, and threw her clear beams on the
pathway. When God shines into our hearts,
He lights up our darkness much as this. Love,
the child of Infinite pity, shines down on the
Infinite sadness of human life.

Unless life be overshadowed by love, how can
we bear it ? See written over Life, Love ; over
Death, Love ; and in Love see God.

But justice, De Quinceyy," continued Sir
Blaise. " I feel so vile."

A father so loves his child that his sins
must be covered, so he robes him in a garment
dipped in a strange wine-press that was trodden
by Scarred Feet." Then De Quinceyy added
fervently, *' Oh, Infinite Love and Infinite Pity,
who wore a crown of thorns that we might wear
a crown of glory, how can we abase ourselves
sufficiently in Thy sight, or wash the feet of
Thy poor sufficiently to show forth our gladness
in Thy service ? "

"I will give alms," said Sir Blaise eagerly.
I have never held my hand from a beggar
yet ; but now I will give a tenth of all I have."

Give yourself first, Panmure. Lose yourself
in the Infinite Love which stands revealed in the
Marred Face of the Son of God."

Then the two men in silence passed through
the hall of Whitefriars.

ETHICS ON HORSEBACK.

"Eternity represents life as fully possessed.

This strange short struggle, so height loath joy, so dark with
sorrow, involves the possibility  nay, the certainty  of
pains'

Sir Blaise and De Quinceyy, after that walk
on the terrace, found that a union of spirit had
been entered into between them, which was
likely to reach out and on into the limitless.

You say you are no Party-man, De
Quinceyy," said Sir Blaise, as a few mornings
after the conversation we have narrated they
were riding leisurely across country ; " yet I
think there is more of the Anglican than the

Puritan about you. The Christ I see in you is
not an austere Christ. Puritanism links works
of Art and Beauty with Paganism. You say
*Very good' of the world of Nature and the
world of Art."

Because I see Divinity everywhere," said De
Quinceyy. "I see in Art the expression of the
lineaments of a Godlike man, however little the
artist may deem from whence his inspirations
come. All genius, all beauty, is a revelation.
Poets may use their powers amiss, artists their
brushes, sculptors their chisels ; but the gifts are
the inherited gifts of the sons of God  prodigals
though they may be.

*' And so as I gaze on the creations of God
and man, I see the links which no time can
destroy, binding the child to the Father ; and
yet more, in every faint upward struggle into
light, I see the Christ in my brother, in every
morsel of bread and cup of cold water given

VOL. I. R

in His name ; in every hospital built, and almshouse
endowed, in every act of charity, and in
every deed of mercy."

"True," said Sir Blaise; 'your doctrine is
full of hope."

Hope ? " said De Quinceyy ; '' we are living
in glorious times. Never was there a moment
when men are so willing to tolerate .all forms
so long as the Gospel be spread. I look forward,
Panmure, to that day when o?ie Church
triumphant shall march under one banner to
meet the returning Christ."

It seems a Utopian dream," said Sir
Blaise, " while a dominant priesthood reigns
on one side of the water, and a distracted
Church split up into a thousand factions on
the other."

The Dove of Peace is hovering overhead,"
said De Quinceyy ; " she will rest her wings erelong
on a safely anchored ark."

They were descending an incline as De
Quinceyy spoke, and before them lay a level
road, with a wealth of pasture land on
either side. When they reached the bottom,
De Quinceyy drew rein, and looked long and
delightedly at the serene landscape.

Some men's minds are like these fair
English, pastures. Such was Keble's throughout
the Christian Year. One feels the influence
of such days as these ; the soft radiance
of spring light, the blossoming of early
green, the promise of a rich and bounteous
harvest, which is the underlying charm of a
May morning : with such a scene you associate
Heaven.

I think the passage in the Confessions of
St. Augustine concerning Heaven are so beautiful.
Augustine was talking with his mother
as they two were leaning out of the window of
the house in Ostia where they were staying, and

B 2

wondering what the life of God's saints would
be in Heaven.

I remember St. Augustine says :  ' When
our discourse came to that point that the
highest delight and brightest of all the carnal
senses seemed not fit to be so much as named
with that life's sweetness, we, lifting ourselves
yet more ardently to the Unchanging One, did
by degrees pass through all things bodily,
beyond the Heaven even, and the sun and
stars.

' Yea, we soared higher yet by inward
musing. We came to our own minds, and we
passed beyond them that we might reach that
place of plenty where Thou fleetest Israel forever
with the food of truth, and where life is
the wisdom by which all these things are made ;
and whilst we were discoursing and panting
after her, we slightly touched on her by the
whole effort of our heart.

' And we sighed, and there left bound the
firstfruits of the Spirit, and came back again
to the sounds of our own mouths  to our own
finite language.

' And what we then said was in this
wise :  If to any the tumult of the flesh were
hushed  hushed the images of the earth and
air and waters ; hushed, too, the poles of
Heaven ; yea, the very soul be hushed to
herself, and by not thinking on self transcend
self, hushed all dreams and imaginary revelations,
every tongue and every sign, and
whatever exists only in transition ; if these
should all be hushed, having only roused our
ears to Him that made them, and He speak
alone, not by them but by Himself, that we
might hear His word, not through any tongue
of flesh nor angel's voice, nor sound of
thunder, nor in the dark riddle of a similitude,
but might hear Him whom in these

things we love, His very self (without any
aid from these), even as we two for that
brief moment had touched the Eternal Wisdom.
Could this be continued on, and other
visions fair unlike it be withdrawn, and this
one vanish and absorb and wrap up its beholders
amid these inward joys, so that life
miorht be for ever like that one moment of

o

understanding, were not this, " Enter thou
into the joy of thy Lord '? " And when shall
that be ? Shall it be when we rise again, but
shall not all be changed ? ' "

In this vision, St. Augustine touched for
one moment the supreme heights of ' love,' "
said Sir Blaise meditatively ; '' the ethics of
love. Have you ever tried to comprehend this
mystery, De Quinceyy ? "

*' The mystery of a human love ? " said De
Quinceyy. " Yes, often. Carlyle says, except
musically and in the language of poetry, it

can hardly be so much as spoken about. We
must conclude he was speaking satirically, ashe
played a brass band in front of most subjects
under the sun.

"Schopenhauer tells us that love is nothing
more than ' a will to live,' and brings down
this divine illumination to a mere desire to
carry on life under its highest form. He
earnestly invokes his followers to root out
the ' will to live ' principle within them, and
thus tend towards his ideal consummation 
a world so purged by his doctrines that the
human race at last ceases to be."

In the face of death, I wonder if this
philosopher would find himself completely
emancipated from hereditary instincts ? " said
Sir Blaise.

I think not," said De Quinceyy meditatively.
Mr. Gunner relates of Schopenhauer that he
was much agitated when looking at a portrait

of Dance, the founder of La Trappe. Something
in the purified intelligence of the face
filled him with strange awe, and he exclaimed
' This is a matter of grace' Ah ! they maybe
tres affirmative dans la negation, but there
comes across each soul now and again the
little fish  the mystic hint  which refuses to
be silenced by opposing voices."

I shall not attempt to root out the * will
to live ' principle," said Sir Blaise, " but look
into the ethics of this passion when in my turn
I am attacked."

De Quinceyy smiled.

*' Yes, Panmure, you must marry, and let
your whole nature blossom out  for not to love
wisely is absolutely a moral misfortune. Look
into the form of the affection  never mind the
substance for love can take countless forms ;
it has two hemispheres in its composition. The
ancient world treated love as their slave ; but,

ETHICS ON HORSEBACK. 249

with Christianity, entered purity and mysticism,
and love, which is conscious of a calm sacramental
constancy'

Yet, amongst the ancients, we find many
toilers and feelers after God," said Sir Blaise ;
look at Marcus Aurelius."

God has never left man since the creation,"
said De Quinceyy. " Man has left God. Buried
amidst a sea of myths and fables was the one
true God. AYe can trace Him in every creed
and every faith ; but the vision Marcus sighed
for was the vision of the Christ. He lived, as
one has finely said, *as a member of a sacred
Cosmos and co-operator of ordering gods ' ; buta
risen Christ has transmogrified Christendom,
and explained to us the mystery of our
being."

I wish," said Sir Blaise, " some thinker
would, in two short sentences, comprise the
entire teaching of the school of Christ. How

would you sum up the whole doctrine of the
Gospel ? I want something defined  something
as free from ornamentation as Greek Art ;
the various schools perplex me."

De Quinceyy's steadfast gaze was concentrated
on Sir Blaise as he answered 

"The Gospel is summed up in these two
sentences, and in these two I have found
anchorage  ' Thy sins be forgiven thee.' ' Go,
and sin no more.' "

Sir Blaise lifted his hat off his head, and said
reverently  '' May I also find anchorage in this
short but perfect Gospel ! "

FOUR o'clock tea.

'We are golden averages  volitant stabilities  compensated
or periodic errors  houses founded on the sea."

Well, mamma, whom do you think I met
this morning ? " said Francisca Masters, as
four o'clock found Lady Masters and her
daughters gathered for tea in the small room
appropriated for that purpose at Enclose.
The walls were painted with the flowering
shrub, in every stage of development, and a
profusion of China tea-pots peeped from every
imaginable nook and corner ; whilst the ceiling
seemed composed of one huge Chinese

umbrella, wliicli showed the "China boys" at
work in the tea trade business in every possible
aspect of occupation.

Who, but lost Sir Blaise ? " continued Francisca
gaily, . as she turned the tap of the tea-urn.
" What has happened to him I cannot
tell ; but he is altered, and I think love of
some sort must be at the bottom of it, for
whenever people are soft with a peculiar softness
'tis love ; oh, be sure 'tis love. You see,
Cecilia, I know all about it, though j\Ir. Languedoc
has never sat on a footstool at my feet
smiling with that disembodied smile of his."

"My dear Francisca, how you do rattle,"
said Lady Masters languidly, for the day was
warm. " I'm glad, though, you met Sir Blaise ;
for, like everybody else, I am perplexed at his
extraordinary seclusion from society, especially
now that we hear he has so completely recovered
from his accident."

I walked some little distance with him ! "
said Francisca triumphantly. " He was perfectly
charming ; but was there ever such a
charming man as Sir Blaise ? Take him all
round, I defy competition ; he is a knight in
armour, riding about an enchanted world.
When I look at him I wonder who said it was
a prosy world  prosy. He has the tenderness
of a woman, and the strength of a man. That's
what Swinburne said of Tennyson in his
criticism on his last poem."

"Mr. Languedoc read it to me," said
Cecilia.

Mr. Languedoc is a puff-ball man," said
Francisco. '' One blast from a trumpet would
scatter him, poesie and all."

"Father too bracing, lYancisca," said Lady
Masters laughing.

I asked Sir Blaise why we saw nothing of
him now. I said ' The county cannot lose you.*

Yoa have no idea, mamma, how delightfully
he smiled as he replied  ' Miss Masters,
have you ever been off on a quest ? ' But
for the smile I should have thought he was
delirious still.

'* * A quest ! ' I said ; ' what quest ? ' Then
he smiled again, and said, * Miss Beauchamp,
my neighbour, gives recitations, I hear. If I
give a recitation at "Whitefriars, will you
come ? But I shall send out invitations in
orthodox form, and invite all the county ' ;
then he held out his hand, and bade me
adieu."

How odd he is ; how very, very odd ! "
said Lady Masters.

I'll tell you what it is, mamma," said
Francisca, " we are living in odd times. The
world is getting very old, and the inhabitants
are getting more and more thoughtful. I
had a letter from Felicia Novello this

morning; she is in all the literary society.
Lady Mary, her friend, is a sort of Mrs.
Grote  and goes in for lions of this species.

"' She enlarges a good deal in her letter
also on a Mr. Cantilupe, whom she calls the
mystic,' and declares he is gaining great
ascendency over Miss Beauchamp, whom he
has introduced at Cosmos Hall. She raves
about ' The Diana,' and says everything this
season is named ' The Beauchamp,' from a hat
to a pair of boots.

Miss Beauchamp is to give a recitation
at Lady Mary's ; and Felicia herself is about
to study this science, or art, or grace of
speaking. She says dancing is going out
of fashion, and that very soon it will be
relegated to County Asylum ball-rooms, as a
pastime for those whose brains have gone
astray ; and that music is to be introduced
under quite another form ; in fine, that

some advanced spirits are leading the way,
and that others are following on ; and the
salons of to-day will soon be the forcing-houses
of talent, which will blaze forth, not
only in scientific fields, but in all the other
fields of thought.

"Each member of society, she says, must
now add his or her quota to the vast storehouse.
Books are going up, at a premium,
for everybody is obliged to read asa
quickener of his intellectual faculties ; and
authors will have to write with more care,
as a deeper style of romance will be in vogue,
such as * John Inelegant.' In truth, she declares
this book has stirred into being a new literary
era. The public have shown they can appreciate
mystic teaching ; and there is to be a
Renaissance period in literature.

Ladies who crave for accentuated love
scenes  (a friend of mine, she adds, par

parentheses, complained that there was nota
kiss in a novel she had just been reading)
 will get them no longer. They must
follow on in the school of refinement, which
can paint passion in more ethereal terms,
and leave subtle fancy to fill in these very
human touches. Altogether, in her opinion,
sensational writers will have to cleanse their
imaginations.

'apropos of Mr. Cantilupe, she declares he
has a magic finger. His touch cures warts.
You remember,' she writes, ' the little wart on
my chin. Hearing of Mr. Cantilupe's extraordinary
touch, I asked him to place his finger
on it ; he did, and shortly after it withered away
and fell into obscurity.'

So magic is not yet distanced by science.
We are a great deal more supernatural than
men of science will allow in the midst of their
philosophical, scientific Cosmos, which allows

VOL. I. s

them to play with its secrets, and is all the
time cracking with laughter at their so-called
discoveries, which the philosophers of tomorrow
disprove.

"In a postscript, she informs me that her
hair is cut short like a Roundhead, and that
she is quite a gentlemanly little person, the
antipodes of the Intense school, who look at
her through half-closed eyelids, and say, ' Too
too !'

The postscript continues :  ' Look out for
the announcement of Miss Beauchamp's approaching
marriage to Mr. Cantilupe. Lady
Mary declares she saw the shadow of a possessive
pronoun in his eye at the recitation
the other evening ; but I say he is too mystic
to take a wife. And would Miss Beau champ
sink her bewitching personality in the melancholy
rigmaroles of Darby and Joan  the
always the same love, than which nothing

can be ' more absurd ? For Shakespeare says
love is a madness, and praise or decry Shakespeare
as you may, one thing is incontestably
true : he knew life, not from one side, but in
its perfect roundness. This knowledge of life,
my dear Francisca, I would have it  I would
see life through the misty spectacles of my
great-great-grandfather, and through the jaunty
eye-glass of our flavour ; then I should make
no mistakes. Is it not Comte who has three
stages in his philosophy ? At what stage,
according to Comte, have I arrived ? After
ALL we end our days where we commence
them  at the multiplication table. Goodbye
! Miss Beauchamp gives a recitation
here tomorrow night, and Mr. Cantilupe is
coming. Lady Mary calls her salon a salon
of the future, and herself a lady of the
future, and has bequeathed her diary to posterity.
' She says she is a follower in the

footsteps of Bacon, who did likewise. Once
more, adieu.' "

What a racy girl Felicia is," said Lady-masters,
as Francisca folded up the letter.
"She has her share of animal magnetism.
Well, we shall see her in London next week,
and then she can dispense a little to us."

CHAPTER I.

ARCADY.

Much adore there teas, God pivot,
He wold love and she ivold not''

Force, force, everywhere force ; we ourselves a mysterious
force in the centre of that''

When, not long ago, it was discovered that
Pascal had been in love, a violent stir was
caused amongst critics. Was it possible that
this cynical and effrai/ant genius had been in
love ? Who was the inspirer of this love ?
The consciousness that a common malady had

VOL. II. B

befallen him, had caused just such a stir on
a localized scale in the minor cycles of Mr.
Cantilupe's being.

Yes ; this unrest, this disquietude, this perplexing
pain, this desire to be near Diana  to
spend each minute in her presence  all pointed
to this fact.

Mr. Cantilupe had elected to play a strange
rule in life, and his role so far had succeeded.
He had been poor, and poverty had fretted
the refinement of his tastes. He now was
rich, and riches had brought him influence
and possessions. But for his appearance he
could not have played his role ; but to find
yourself unlike other people is to force you
into the conspicuousness of retirement or the
buzz of notoriety.

Mr. Cantilupe's appearance marked him, so
he traded on that appearance. His mind was
partly visionary, and he easily cloaked his words

in somewhat mystic forms of expression ; so that,
both externally and internally, he impressed
his hearers with a difference between themselves
and himself so great, that in bewilderment they
took his counsel, and hailed him as a sort of
leader.

If he had desired to found a religion such
as Mahomet, doubtless he could have done
so ; his trances, real or imaginary, would have
been admirably performed, and he would have
painted such rewards to his followers that, by
the very juggle of his words, they would have
flocked about his standard. But Mr. Cantilupe
had no such ambition as this ; he was well
satisfied to wrap himself in a mystic cynicism,
which had already brought in its wake such
notoriety as he elected to have ; and as for
heading an army of soldiers, or civilians, or
pilgrims, Mr. Cantilupe left such ambitions to
those who had them.

B 2

Mr. Cantilupe was meditating on the best
method of declaring his love, and was conscious
of an odd sensation  it was the nearest approach
to timidity he, in the panther-like courage of
his subtle nature, had ever experienced ; it was,
perhaps, the first approach to that which was
best and purest in his love.

Yes ; he feared Diana. For what is timidity
but fear ? and Mr. Cantilupe felt an unaccountable
dread of Diana's displeasure. He found
himself revolving three problems. The first 
'' Is the ground clear ? " the second  " In what
form shall I woo her ? " the third  " How lone
will it take me to succeed ? "

The first question Mr. Cantilupe debated
long. " Has no man touched her heart ? This,
with her responsive nature, is hardly probable.
Yet she has a dash of indifferentism about
her which may have kept *' Arcady ' free from
all intruders. Besides, she seems absolutely

without a past ; she lives very much in the
present ; and be sure when a woman lives iu
the present she has no past, or, if a past, then
a dead past. But, if she has a past, could I
not exorcise it ? "

Mr. Cantilupe, looking meditatively in the
mirror facing him, caught the strange power
which lurked in his eyes  caught the Ego, and
bade that consideration begone.

The second problem now came forward and
awaited consideration : " How shall I touch
this woman's heart ? How ! she is intellectual
so am I. AVe flash on one another. She i
easier for more knowledge ; and that eagerness
in some measure I can quench ; for, knowing
the power of knowledge, I have not failed to
drink deeply at most fountains. Here I touch
her ; here is my most powerful weapon. If I
possess the intellectual love of The Diana, 'tis
the most I can aspire to. I know she is calm

and cool in my presence ; meets my glance
without embarrassment, and without so much
as. the droop of an eyelid ; she is glad to seeme,
and sorry when I leave ; but this this is
not * Arcady! "

Then Mt. Cantilupe bid that second problem
retire, and now advanced the third and last 
How long \ " Here Mr. Cantilupe took a stroll
round the room.

How long ? If it be a lifetime, I can
wait. Yes ; can and will wait ! In this chase
I will embrace Time if needs be ; Time and
I will unite to win her  Diana, the Great
Diana. I will bring my stores and lay them
at her feet. I am hers ; but if she thwart me
it will be bitter, bitter as wormwood ; it will
end in woe."

If Mrs. Battle could have seen Mr. Cantilupe
at that moment, she would Lave said, *' My
instincts are right. Oh ! Miss Beauchamp,

be warned  be warned." But, as far as
earthly eyes were concerned, Mr. Cantus
thoughts were invisible. The thoughts
that were in him had come so far uppermost
that they shone red in his eyes.
They were thoughts of vengeance  sinister,
voiceless thoughts, yet perfectly formed,
and ready for action when the moment
came.

Oh ! these voiceless thoughts that haunt the 
secret corners of a being, ready for service,
like a regiment of seasoned soldiers ; how
hideous when equipped for deadly deed ; how
lovely when, garbed in whitest white, they
wait like angels to do some glad and gracious
service! Yes; there comes a moment in the
experience of each of us when we prove ourselves,
when we drag forth what is in us, when |
wee know ourselves ; and that moment had
come for Mr. Cantilupe. '

He knew that his hate would be in proportion
to his love, even for this fair Diana,
whose gracious beauty had penetrated him,
as sunrise streams down on a barren rock and
gilds it with promise. He had confronted his
passion, and he found it strong and wily, ready
for a wolf stride, or a panther's leap, ora
serpent's glide ; his very figure seemed to
transform itself as he contemplated opposition,
and to attain a certain significance of proportion
which would make a foe take his
measure.

But Mr. Cantilupe was not a man to linger
long in cobweb speculations. Like a spider
he had built his web ; but he was not going
to sit in it waiting for his fly ; time enough to
betake himself to such a position if circumstances
required the posture ; for the present,
intellectual incense should be constantly ascending
before Diana.

She had asked him to lend her some of
Ruskin's books, which she had found it
so difficult to obtain. He would go and see
her, and discourse on Ruskin, and he would
amuse her by carrying with him a portrait of
Gundulf, the crying Friar of Bee. He would
tell her how Gundulf built and wept, and
wept and built, and how he could outcry
any one of the several Monks of Bee. And
here was a clever hit on the Purists and Ee-
storationists, fighting it out in a pen-and-ink
sketch. The Purists in tatters, and hugging
themselves ; the Eestorationists in the neatest
of eighteenth century habiliments, pointing
with scorn at their antagonists. Tis would
also amuse Miss Beauchamp. Had she
not declared she would never restore the
Court, but let it hobble on crutches till it
fell down and returned to the universal sustain
?

Then Mr. Cantilupe twisted the fine points of
his waxed moustache, and thought of Diana's
great attachment to the ramshackle yet charming
old place ; and his meditations took yet
another direction. Would it make any difference
in her regard for himself, if he assumed
the title he disdained of Duce di Cantilupe ?
"Well for me that I did disdain it, or I should
not be as I am  rich enough to hold a mimic
court in Italy at all events. No, no ; let the
Duce remain where he is. Titles are passports
for the insignificant." Then Mr. Cantilupe
put on his hat, and went forth to see Miss
Beauchamp.

CHAPTER 11.

INTELLECTUAL Wooing.

Excellent is culture for a savage ; but once let Turn read in
the hoot, and he is no longer able not to think of Plutarch's
heroes'

The little drawing-room iu M Street

o

was arranged with Diana's own individuality
of placing and touch. She never considered
anything not worth while ; every minute was
of consideration to her, and the surroundings
of that minute of importance. She was a great
reader, and the various small tables about the
room were loaded with all the new books and
pamphlets.

On the morning of the day Mr. Cantilupe

called she had been delving for many hours in
out-of-the-way streets to find some rare singing
birds, but had only succeeded in procuring a
beautiful macaw, with which Mr. Cantilupe
found her childishly delighted.

Miss Beauchamp, there is in you a rare
combination," said he, as he stood regarding
her ; "an extraordinary intellectual appetite,
in pleasing union with the glad joy in such
trifles as macaws, which I should expect to
see in one of Byron's bread-and-butter young
ladies."

When Mr. Cantilupe was playful he reminded
you of quicksilver running up and down a
barometer, the play was so peculiar.

You call this perfect creature a trifle,
Mr. Cantilupe ? " said Diana, as she stroked
the lovely plumage of the wise-looking creature.
" Hues such as these always fill me with
a great reverence ; in fact, the whole animal

world, with its pathetic and almost unexplored
links with man, is to me one of the
great attractions of life. This is why / could
not picture a Heaven without these charming
creatures.

"Most people seem to be shocked at the
notion of encountering these dear companions
in another world. My' love for animals will,
I hope, be hereafter developed into a vaster
range of appreciation ; so will all that is best
in us. Watch a dog's eye when he is dying :
his faithful gaze is directed to his master, and
the seat where he shows his joy gives a feeble
farewell wag. Where goes the spirit of that
dog ? ' He lias no spirit', you say, horrified and
shocked at the audacity of the question. I
merely answer. Has he not ? "

Mr. Cantilupe felt himself somewhat far
removed from these speculations, but he did
not show it.

Miss Beauchamp would never be see at
Buckingham, I conclude," said he, as he leant
forward to scratch the macaw's head, who
rather viciously returned his playful caress by
seizing his finger, and giving vent to shrill
screams.

Mr. Cantilupe extricated his finger without
any expression of pain, so Diana concluded
the macaw's beak was rather blunt ; but she
apologized with real concern.

Nothing seems to hurt me," said Mr.
Cantilupe ; " I've too much will to notice
physical pain. Not that the beak of your
macaw is a witness to this indifference. Withall
the will to do it he has not grazed the
skin."

*' Miss Beauchamp would not be seen at
Buckingham," he reiterated.

Indeed, I would not," said Diana, colouring
deeply ; "I often wonder how Englishmen

can sink their supposed love of fair-play
in such barbarous cruelty. Is it not despicable,
for the sake of fashion, or that sheep-like tendency
of the age, to take aim at the poor little
pigeons who are let loose for their amusement ?
We are but half-civilized yet."

Miss Beauchamp will civilize us," said
Mr. Cantilupe. "Do you feel, like Carlyle
and other lights, that you have a message for
the race ? "

'* I can only express the messages of others
at present," said Diana, as she turned over the
pages of the ' Stones of Venice.' " Some day,
perhaps, I may grasp my own message.

Mr. Cantilupe passed his hand across his
brow, and swept away an abstraction. " Should
he risk all now, and hurry the story of his love
into her ears with the onward sweep of an
over mastering passion ? " Forces were urging
him  forces he had never experienced before.

Yes, absolutely childish forces he had thought
them, as he had read how men had lost all
for a woman's smile, and plunged hither and
thither with the mad movements of a blind
Samson to obtain their desires. And now he
was beset in the same fashion, only his love
was charged with a thousand wiles that could
dodge and wait and lurk, and be "on guard "
or " stand at ease," to win Diana.

There were elements of greatness in his
love. Yes, she had stirred wiat was best
in a nature capable of ugly deeds ; he was
capable of treading upon any person or
thing to obtain his desires. Oh, he was
not dainty in his footsteps, fine and delicate
as was the form of that foot ; it
could walk over a parqueterie composed of
hearts, if needs be ; and, cry you ever so
lustily, he would walk on daintily, finely,
firmly, with never an awkward stumble. But

there were elements of greatness in his love,
because he had patience, and is there not in
all active patience an element of greatness ?

Diana, glancing up from her survey of the
Stones of Venice,' met Mr. Cantilupe's eyes ;
those eyes of his at all times different to ordinary
eyes, and now rendered ten times more
inexplicable by the wondrous leverage of love.
They had darkened with the force of impulse,
which impulse was as carefully guarded as a
prisoner by a capable (gendarme.

Diana was not driven to thinking men
were in love with her, it was true ; she had
experienced many Southern avowals of love,
and she had waved them one and all away.
She was not ignorant of love's declarations ;
but there was something in this glance of Mr.
Cantilupe's which held her as the threat of
danger might hold you. She experienced the
oddest sensation she had ever felt in her life ;

VOL. II. C

his glance seemed to draw her heart to the
surface, and hold it palpitating with fear, awe,
curiosity  a mingling of consciousness and
unconsciousness, of new ground and unaccustomed
feet, of pitfalls.

Amidst all this medley of sensations, the round
face and ample cap-strings of Mrs. Battle rose
before her, and the demonstrative dislike which
wreathed her lips as she exclaimed, " Miss
Beau champ, be warned, be warned ; he will
wiiid about your life, and suffocate you." How
quickly thoughts pass through our frames,
thoughts which might compass our lives,
thoughts which hold all our lives in one palpitating
compass !

Mr. Cantilupe saw that Diana was aroused
from her unconsciousness ; he saw the effect he
had produced ; he saw, and quickly withdrew
from the confession which had been permitted
to escape through the subtle yet easily

transferable medium of his eyes, and commenced
in lazily monotonous tones to discourse
on Ruskin, on Gundulf, on anything and everything.


Before ten minutes had elapsed Diana had
forgotten her surprise, and if she remembered it
again it would be to push that thought away
as a mistaken and objectionable intruder. Mr.
Cantilupe had wandered on to a topic which
had a spell for Diana. He was discoursing on
English poets, and describing poesy as the
fragrance of our nation's history. He had commenced
with that '' worshipful man " Geoffrey
Chaucer; then he had skipped two dreary centuries,
almost forgotten of the poets, to Spenser ;
he touched on the " self wrapt " and sohtar}-
shining Milton ; had moved onwards to Shelley
and Keats.

Diana found herself listening, happily enough,
to the very elegant criticisms with which he

C 2

commented on these several poets. Mr. 
could criticize to perfection. He
praised with enthusiasm, and blamed without
too bitter an edge to his knife. His knowledge
of life gave a piquancy to his reviews which
was singularly attractive. He could even
appreciate Mrs. Barrett Browning's flights ; he
discoursed on the passion, if he avoided the
pathos, of her poems.

He went into a careful analysis between
talent and genius  talent which carries a far
greater commercial value in its wake than
genius ; that untaught child, with its wistful
and often indefinable utterances, which can
only reach the fine tissues of its audience,
and seems to fret and chafe between the trappings
of all conventional teaching. Talent
which finds a place on our drawing-room tables
and fills the high posts of our national arrangements
; (genius, which in the very strength

and weakness of its inspirations must find its
glees and its glooms amidst the lonely spots of
earth.

Tell me of our prose authors," said Diana.
"Label them  and when I say our authors, I
mean the world writers."

Scores of talented writers," said Mr. ,
" some few who penetrate you with the
touch of genius. De Balzac has genius ; he
never makes a book  the book makes itself.
Victor Hugo has genius. Genius is ever
prolific  it must be rapid, or it is not genius.
It is like improvisation ; it asks for a Mandoline
to accompany its impassioned utterances, and
the fragrance of swaying limes  nothing more.
George Eliot has talent, so cultivated and exquisitely
garbed, that from tip to toe she is
perfect ; and in the very perfection of her cold
outline escapes the wild beauty of genius, which
has passed her by.

Walt Whitman, the New World singer,
has genius ; though his country is as yet
hardly ' strong ' enough to receive him, he
sings for all  he embraces all. The irresponsive
and the responsive find their exponent in
him. If you protest that his ethics savour too
much of the Aristotelian flavour, I say they
are full of a ' sane sensuality.' And if you
protest I contradict myself, then, with Walt
Whitman, I say  'Do I contradict myself?'
Very well, then, I contradict myself. But
time is passing, like love, and everything
else. Adieu, Miss Beauchamp." And so
Mr. Cantilupe's intellectual wooing ended for
that day.

AX EXQUISITE SMILE.

 Great believers are always reckoned infidels  impracticable,
fantastic, atheistic  and, really, men of no
account."  Emerson.

"/ swear, I think there is nothing hut immortality,
that the exquisite scheme is for it, and the nebulous
float is fur it, and the cohering is for it''  Walt
Whitman.

Diana was back again at Beauchain23 Court ;
the season was over, and she had returned
with a great reputation. All the county had
called upon her now. Lady Masters had met
her in London, at Lady Mary Charteris's ; and,
seeing the ovations Miss Beauchamp received
on all sides, had quickly made her acquaintance.

This was the signal for the county to
follow ; and Diana had received them one and
all with that gracious indifFerentism which
was distinctive of herself; but had declined
every invitation to dinner or tennis on the
plea of fatigue after her campaign in town 
all save one. Sir Blaise had invited the
county to an " At Home " at Whitefriars 
Diana amongst the rest  and Diana was
going.

You are coming with me, Homespun,"
said Diana on that evening. " I think something
strange .is about to happen to-night.
Do these vague discernments of ours, these
dim groping into the future, count for
nothing ? You remember I told you, sometime
ago, 1 thought Sir Blaise was off on a
quest.' Has he attained it yet ? "

Dear heart ! I am sure I can't tell," said
Mrs. Battle. " Sir Blaise has been passing

Strange, it is whispered, since that narrow
escape. What a splendid man he was to be
sure, to be sure ! "

And is," said Diana. '"' I met him to-day ;
in fact, went down on my knees before him 
or, rather, Bess did. She is past work. I must
really get a polo pony."

"Did Sir Blaise pick you up?" said Mrs.
Battle excitedly.

'' Of course, and sent me on my way," said
Diana, laughing ; and then she threw a
shower of rose-leaves from a poi-jjourri on
Mrs. Battle's head, and wandered out into the
garden, leaving . that lady smiling with a
smile which threatened to be stationary  for
that day, at any rate.

Though Whitefriars had been destroyed,
according to the " purists," still, when lighted
up at night, it stood out as one of the
palace homes for which England, thanks to

her Constitutional arrangements, is so celebrated.


Once let Democracy set in, and where would
the ancestral dignity of England be, where
would the entail go ? Thanks to the " eldest
son," we can yet glory in these princely
palaces. With the downfall of entail would

I come the downfall of the unique charm of

\ Enfant.

The dining-hall at Whitefriars was paved
with polished marble, and the walls were
entirely glass. Anything more dazzling than
the appearance of this room would be difficult
to imagine. The white gleaming floors
and the long reflection in the mirrors had a
wonderful effect. The architect had copied
this room from a similar one in the palace of

the Rajah of M .

The drawing-rooms were paved in the same
manner, and the drapery, whether of hangings

or coverings, was all composed of whites
velvet ; chairs, however ancient in
shape  couches, however curious in build 
were alike arrayed in this rich fabric. The
rooms were destitute of colour save for the
splendour of flowers and the deep hues of
Venetian glass.

Curiously enough, Diana had elected to
wear on this particular evening a gown of
white velvet, and the same leafy pattern was
carried out on her drapery as on the drapery
at Whitefriars. Her only ornament was a
necklet of cress which had been twisted in
and out amidst a bouquet thrown at her
during prolonged applause at Cosmos Hall.
The gems were roughly set, and a serpent's
head, formed of large diamonds, composed the
clasp.

You look wonderful in that white velvet,"
Mrs. Battle had said, in her usual admiring

fashion, before starting ; " but is it not too
warm for this summer evening ? "

But Diana shivered, and replied, " You
don't know the meaning of the word Summer
in England."

When Diana entered the drawing-room at
Whitefriars she seemed to have grown out of
the surroundings.

Sir Bkise, as he advanced to meet her, felt
involuntarily reminded of the White Lady
whom tradition associated with Whitefriars.
Was this Miss Beau champ, whom he had encountered
that morning ? Somehow he held
her hand in silence, regarding her thoughtfully
; and Diana was the first to speak.

I have quite recovered from my undignified
tumble of this morning ; Mrs. Battle says I
shall feel the effects in a few days ; shock to
the system, and so on."

Diana's manner was slightly accentuated,

and an indifferent observer might have said
she was nervous. Sir Blaise, too, as he led
her to a seat, continued either absent, or very
much present  extremes are so difficult to
decipher under any form.

'dear, dear!" said Mrs. Battle, as she sank
into the extended arms of a Chippendale near
Diana, " how very oddly Sir Blaise looked at
you ; never a word. What funny creatures
men are  even the pick of them ! But he is
like a statue, and his very silence is handsome."

Mrs. Battle's stage whisper had caught the
ear of Francisca Masters, who was sitting at
no great distance, and who now made her way
towards them.

"I am so glad to see you. Miss Beauchamp ;
let me sit down beside you, and talk. I feel
like a kettle on the point of exploding ;
Fve had nobody to speak to since we arrived.
You see Cecilia is quite occupied with Mr.

Languedoc. Mamma little thought he would
have been here, or Cely would not have been
allowed to come. Oh ! the wiles and ways of
love. How did that man get invited ? how did
he find his way here ? Now, I do beg of you
to glance at his posture ; he is sitting, turning
up his face at Cecilia like a sunflower. And
why should he select a footstool to sit on ?
Audacious, I call it; conspicuous to the last
degree ! Are there no chairs ? No, there is
an aesthetical meaning in all this  I am literally
at your feet. No man should be at the
feet of any living woman. However, we all
know when the season of revolt comes on 
directly the period of imbecility and helpless
confusion (when the afflicted ones are treated
as lion compos mentis by their friends, and are not
quite sure themselves whether such treatment is
not merited) is over."

Francisca's pre Raphael ite hair and sunny

smile seemed to accord with her hadinafje and
Diana gladly swept her drapery aside as she
made room for her on the sofa.

"Mr. Languedoc proclaims himself a
singer of the future. He declares that
all deep thinkers and strong singers have
but a gaping audience at present. Cely
vows she grasps him, but I vow she does
not. I have watched her expression when
he has been reading any MS. to her, and
I assure you, when he throws uj) his eyes at
the last line, poor Cely looks as assiduous as a
French puff. He thinks he is as clever as
Emerson ; but if an America happens to be
cultivated and a genius, you meet with a combination
in him you will not readily meet
with in England  a forward reach, as our
American handles his metaphysics, unknown to
English thinkers. At least, this is my little
theory."

*' You lire right," said Diana reflectively.

*' You are the most delightful urn a kettle
ever let off its steam into  forgive a transcendental
epigram, Miss Beauchamp. And now
to start on another topic. Did you notice how
oddly Sir Blaise greeted you ? I think I know
why. You, perhaps, have never heard the
tradition connected with Whitefriars ? All
old places have traditions ; and even the Revolutionists
can't do away with them. Sir
Blaise, when he looked at you in this white-flowered
velvet, thought of the tradition ; I
know lie did. I have studied his face since I
was a child. Shall I tell you all about the
tradition ? "

Do," said Diana.

Whitefriars was once a monastery, founded
by a Panmure in the reign of Mary.

*' Sir Sholto Panmure, the founder of the
Order of Whitefriars, had been a wild man.

and had done many deeds for which his conscience
upbraided him. In a street brawl he
let off a pistol and shot a man, this man turning
out to be his most intimate friend. However,
the affair was hushed up, for it was done in
the mad frolic of a masquerade ; but Sir Sholto
was inconsolable, and the more so for one
dominant reason  he loved, and was loved in
return, by the sister of the man he had shot.
The name of the lady was Hortense di Cantilupe,
an Italian family who had come over to settle
in England, being connected in some pray with
Mary's Court.

Hortense was inconsolable for the death of
her brother by the hand of her lover ; so much
so, that she said she could never marry Sir
Sholto.

*' Many "and various were the scenes between
the lovers. I have read all about it in old
family records in the library  (before Sir Blaise

VOL. II.

met with the accident, hunting, Cely and I
used to roam at large here). At last Sir Shelton
a fit of despair, founded the monastery of
Whitefriars, and became the head of the Order.
In the old chapel you can still see the stone
worn away by the knees of Sir Sholto as he
agonized over his past misdeeds.

'' Hortense could not live far distant from her
lover. She built a cottage (the remains of which
I will show you one day) at the foot of White-friars,
and, garbed in white, watched and prayed,
only stealing forth at night to wander round the
grounds of Whitefriars.

' When Sir Sholto died, she is said to have
thrown herself, in a passion of despair and love,
on his body, and there died. They were buried
together, like Eloise and Abelard of old ; but 'tis
said, on misty nights, when the pale damps come
stealing over the fields, a White Lady is seen
to glide towards Whitefriars, and a wailing voice

is heard to whisper forth the name of ' Sholto 1
Sholto ! ' YheIl this occurs, Nature seems to
be shaken with emotion, for the trees toss
their arms towards each other, and ' sough '
a dirge in their branches, which terrifies the
listeners."

"Nature sympathizes with us in our sorrows,"
said Diana, " stretches out her arms towards us.
I always feel it to be so. What a strange story
yet how interesting ! "

*' Well," said Francisca, " perhaps 'tis more
sad than strange, though, of course, I don't for
one moment believe about the White Lady.
Still I am glad that in death they were not
divided ; but you gave Sir Blaise a shock, and
he did think of the tradition when he saw
you."

A string band had been playing at intervals,
the instruments being just far distant enough
to make the music exquisitely dreamy. Now

and then, as some strain, more subtle in its
action than others, stole in upon the crowd
of lau2:hintT and chatting men and women
who were moving about in easy conversation,
or wandering in and out of the conservatories*
which led out of the drawing-rooms, a " hush "
crept in, which memory or some divine foretaste
filled.

How marvellously our natures respond to
the vibrations of strings, or the breathing of
instruments ! We are lulled, invigorated,
saddened, or made glad. And so it is with
all Art. *What a witness to our immortality
is the moral influence of some great work
which has sprung from a painter's brush !
Take Munkacsky's Christ ; who can gaze
unmoved before the simple dignity of that
matchless figure clothed in white ? AVho can
look, without  a contraction of heart-pain, at
the calm, yet questioning, brow of the Saviour,

4t the deep pity and infinite tenderness in His
eyes, as He stands before the cowering Pilate,
in whose heart a tempest of fear and desire is
raging ?

'' An extraordinary picture ! " said one, as he
stood before it. He had come into that quiet
room, where it was on view, from the hurry
and bustle of the streets, and he wist not what
to say, as the spell of that grand picture
caught and enchained his eyes. " Verily an
extraordinary picture ! But our planet has
been the scene of an extraordinary enactment,
which the denizens of other planets might well
desire to look into."

What is Sir Blaise about ? " said Francisca
suddenly. "He is moving a table, and taking
his place behind it, as if about to make a
speech ; has he caught the mania for recitation
? But how pale he looks ! What can hebe
about ? "

Various eyes were directed towards Sir
Blaise, and every countenance manifested
curiosity.

Diana's lips parted in an exquisite smile.
How she came to know what he was about to
say, who can tell ? Sir Blaise and she were
almost strangers ; yet are there not spirits
which have known each other long: in some
strange realms of thought who, meeting, meet
as those meet, in an intimacy which is independent
of time or circumstance ? Yes, Diana
knew. The question she had asked that
Spring night not long ago, of the crescent up
above, of the heavens thick with kingdoms,
of the nightingale as it jug-jugged in the
mysteries of song, was about to be responded
to. Sir Blaise had surely found the answer to
his quest.

THE CONFESSIONS OF SIR Plaise.

 Men hare their metal as of gold and silver. Those of
you who (cere the worthy ones in the state of ignorance,
will be the worthy ones in the state of faith as soon as
you embrace it

A MrRMUR of voices, a flutter of drapery, a
focussing of glances, and Sir Blaise had commenced
Lis recitation.

Jy friends, you wonder what I am about
to say ; you will probably wonder still more
when I say what I have to say. I have
anticipated the various censures which will
be passed upon me. I know how I should
once have regarded this entering into inner

experiences, which some hold too sacred to
mention, and some cannot tolerate, associated
with scenes such as this. Bat to every rule
there is an exception ; and I claim this exception
to-night  for, surely, a man to be a man
must act up to the convictions which hurry him
along with resistless force.

'' Such force is urging me to tell the
friends amongst whom I have grown into
maturity  the friends to whom I am linked
by many endearing ties  the ties of a common
interest in this fair Herefordshire, where
our landed interests are vested ; the ties of
college friendship in some instances, and
school-day adventures in others ; of hunting
bonds ; besides those countless other mingled
influences which bind beings together.

'you know that from that morning when
I was carried from the hunting-field I have
lived a life of seclusion. You have commented

on the reason. You have deemed me
discourteous and morose when all your kind
inquiries invariably met with the same response.

I want to-night to tell you ichij I could not
see you. Why I shut myself up within myself
why I became thus metamorphosed.

My friends, I had, like the Knights of
Arthur's Court, gone in search of the Holy
Grnil ; and till I found it I could not rest. I
was prepared to leave all to find it, to shun
past pursuits if they would hinder my quest ;
to forego the smile of women, and the clasp
of friendly hands. There are words we count
ugly words in this world of ours ; we endeavour
to deck them with rhetorical elegances, or to
smother them in rose-leaves, but they haunt us
yet, and must as long as Time endures. The
new philosophy endeavours to do away with
the one but no philosophy can do away with
the other.

*' When Death approached me, it was shrouded
in the robes of night. No orleans of lioht transfigured
its appalling aspect. I am not ashamed
to confess my dread  the great men of the
Ancient World shrank backwards at its approach.
A Cicero * wrung his hands and
wailed ' as he thought of it. A Cato viewed it
with ' calm despair.' My hour had come at
last, I thought ; then my senses quickened as
they never had before. I would have given
many years for the promise of one year in
which to find the Holy Grail.

I . had lived as if I were not mortal  as
if Nemesis could never overtake me. Of the
struggles of that time I can never adequately
speak. I shut myself in the library, and
read all that came to hand of the various
schools of thought ; but still the Holy Grail
seemed as distant as ever. When should I seethe
vision I longed for ? At last there came

before me the half forgotten figure of a college
friend of years ago. I wrote to him ; he came,
and he has helped me.

In the mystery of the Passion, I have found
the key to all mysteries ; and in the Beatific
Vision of the Christ, the answer to my quest.

My friends, I could not endure that you
should think that any motive but one so profoundly
deep could keep me from amongst you ;
so I have grasped this opportunity, when so
many are gathered here, to explain all."

Then Sir Blaise ceased speaking, and, with
a grave yet happy smile playing about his
countenance, moved amongst his guests ; and
once more the strains of music floated in upon
the somewhat startled and wholly puzzled
people.

Sir Blaise should go into Parliament," said
old bluff" Squire Haddington ; " let him talk
politics, not theology. We are not Germans

directly the Germans get together they are
off on theology of some sort. We don't understand
this kind of thing  what is it all about ?
The parson does all my religion for me. I
consider my pew-rent pays my fare to the
other side."

Then Squire Haddington laughed, and absolutely
poked another old squire in the ribs.

"Politics," said Squire Musgrave, 'politics,
I'm done up with them, most thoroughly and
completely done up with them. It's all blame,
whatever party is in power. Who's to blame
for the rising, of the skeleton in the house of
Europe ? The Liberals say Conservatives 
the Conservatives say the Liberals ; whereas
neither party is at fault, 'tis our imperfect
civilization is to blame. If we were all
Christianized we should soon make up our
quarrels. No, no ; I call that little speech of
Sir Blaise about the straightest bit of work

cross-country lie has ever done ; he has spoken
like a brave man  he has silenced all those
absurd reports that have been circulated of one
sort or another."

What will Parson Barry say ? " said Squire
Haddington. " It's a pity he and Madam are
off for their summer trip. I should like to
have seen the old fox-hunter's eye this night.
He will have to trim up his sails a bit. I suppose
Panmure will throw up the mastership
of the hounds. Tally-ho and psalm-singing
don't dovetail."

*' Softly, softly, Haddington, my friend,"
said Squire Musgrave. " Sir Blaise's well-known
Tally-ho has rung out in unmistakable
tones to-night. He has unearthed that wily
old fox, Lucifer, and hurled a javelin at him.
The Confessions of an Augustine could hardly
awaken a greater sensation on a localized scale
than the confessions of Sir Blaise this nitvht ;

those words of his will live on in the memory
of us men and women, unforgotten when
our hour comes. They are words with a young
Spring breeze in them, and the scent of
laurels."

Squire Haddington gave vent to a long low
whistle. He was a buffoon at heart, and a
clown by nature. Circumstances had placed
him where he was in society ; but, though
mounted tolerably high on the social ladder,
he had an eye backwards, and would have
subsided very comfortably a rung or two
lower. Circumstances may dress a man in
ever so gaudy a style ; but beneath the apparel
lurks the man. There he is ; you can't
mistake him.

The buffoon in Squire Haddington was the
bedizened creature he had to subdue ; the
bedizened one had made him wallow in jests,
and hold all that was lofty up to ridicule.

Of the many lords who had held dominion
over him, none were so impotent as this
buffoon. But, perhaps, no nation is so
plagued with the buffoon as the English
nation. He rises to his (greatest heights in
burlesque  the broader the fun the louder the
laughter. Whenever three or four Saxoners
are gathered together in convivial mood at the
corner of the street, the buffoon comes along
with them. How different is the vivacity of
other nations ! As subtle in comparison as the
scent of a rose to an onion.

Persiflage is one thing, buffoonery another ;
but we have digressed too far. Squire Haddington's
long low whistle ended that little
conversation ; and, shortly after, the guests
melted away, and an unexampled evening
amongst the evenings which Whitefriars
had known was chronicled where all is
chronicled.

EIVULET, EIVULET !

Sweet light is round yoii, soft sounds are in your
ears

Mrs. Battle could get no response to the
various comments she strung together during
the drive home that night. The hush of
Nature ever stilled Diana. The sublimity of
distant worlds, the awful grandeur of the
immensity of space, the sweeping darkness
which threw up the ethereal light, the mystic
rustling in tree-tops, the air scented with
acacia, meadow-sweet, honeysuckle, sweet gale,
Spanish broom, lime  all these surroundings
affected her with a sense of the manifestation

of a great working power, not unseen, but
visibly nigh.

Tills" she found herself reiterating, " this
remains always beautiful  as dreamily beautiful
under other aspects as Florence sleeping
by the rushing Arno'' She was leaning her
head half out of the fly, as it trundled along,
for Diana could afford no carriage as yet : she
was deaf to the repeated exclamations of Mrs.
Battle.

Dear, dear ! I must see Mrs. Bovin and
Miss Edwards tomorrow, and tell them Sir
Blaise is about to take Orders, for of course
he will go into the Church. What a handsome
man in the pulpit, to be sure, to be sure !
And what sermons he will preach ! Won't the
ladies run miles ! Dear, dear ! Poor things,
to be sure, to be sure ! Well, well ! it was
a fine sight, a notable sight, to see Sir
Blaise stand up and speak so calmly and

VOL. II. B

SO beautifully. Won't Mrs. Bovin and Miss
Edwards be taken aback when I tell them
all ? I'll go and have a cup of tea with
them tomorrow ; and Oh, Miss Beauchamp,
how fond Miss Francisca Masters is of Sir
Blaise ; it's quite palpable  she does not attempt
to conceal it.

There is not a tithe of that retiring manner

o

in these days which was the crowning perfection
of maidenhood in my day  no eyes
downcast, no blushing cheeks, I'm sure.
Take Mr. Battle's courtship. You should
have seen the bows and little-by-littles with
which he gradually led me to we?' he had
centred his affections upon me. As for me,
I was a timid creature, and nothing upset
me more than the addresses which various
gentlemen paid to me by innuendo and veiled
compliment. Now I received a letter in
poetry, and now a letter in prose, all couched

in terms which would now-a-days be considered
very old-fashioned and extravagant.

But to return to Mr. Battle's courtship.
How punctilious he was when he ventured
to kiss my gloved hand ! He said, ' Martha,
this is a moment of exaltation ' ; then Mr.
Battle ventured on the like ao;ain, and so he
won me. But Sir Blaise does not notice
Miss Masters in any particular way ; he is
courteous to all ladies, but shows special favour
to none.

Oh, Miss Beauchamp, how well the white
marble floors and pillars become you ! If
ever anybody looked like the right lady to
be installed in that place, it is you. The
Beauchamps and Panmures have never intermarried.
Sir Golf used to repeat a queer
tradition about a Panmure who fell in love
with a penniless Miss Beauchamp, and they
were separated through the opposition of the

parents. And some old doggerel is connected
with the story  I hardly remember
the lines  but they were something to this
effect : 

If a Panmure toed to a Beaucliamp be.
The White Lady then to her C'est iv ill flee. ' "

*' The White Lady," said Diana, drifting back
from the confines of those dreamy speculations
she delighted in ; "I heard all about her tonight
; her name was Hortense di Cantilupe."

*' Di what ? " said Mrs. Battle, bending forward
with terrible earnestness.

Di Cantilupe," reiterated Diana.

That is Mr. Cantilupe's name Italianized,
Miss Beaucliamp. No wonder he is like a
wraith, coming from such uncanny stock.
Mark my words, his real name is Di Cantilupe,
and he is a twig off that ill-omened tree : he
looks like a Frenchman or an Italian ; but

these Latin races are all alike  names and faces
and ways."

Then Diana laughed till the old fly seemed
to participate in her merriment, and rumble
and rattle and squeak in chorus.

Mrs. Battle, you have an unduly developed
imagination in one quarter, and a
dwarfed structural arrangement in another.
'Tis monstrous this aversion you have invariably
shown towards a really very pleasant
man  a man in whose conversation I find
pleasure. He unites a cultivated intellect to
a very feeling heart ; for just think how kind
he has been to me."

Measure for measure, grain for grain, he
will have it back again ; he will be paid in
his own way and in his owen time ; he will
make dainty choice of his pay. If it were a
scalp he would have it ; if it were a heart he
would have it. Poor dear Mr. Battle used to

say, ' Martha, I have the greatest confidence
in your eye. I have a hop-buyer coming down
to-day, come you in and see if the man's good
for his money ''

How came it," said Diana, " that hops
turned out a failure ? "

*' How, indeed, Miss Beauchamp ! But, as 1
said before, blight will rot a peach on the
wall or a hop on its pole indifferently. Blight
is a malady for which as yet we have found
no cure  blight and mildew. We are but
dunces yet for all our boasted learning."

Yes, we are but dunces at the best," said
Diana, once more giving herself up to the full
measure of her delight in the scented languor
of the summer air, as it blew the russet-coloured
hair, which waved across her forehead, into
playful disorder.

Sir Blaise will take Orders and perform
the services in his own chapel," said Mrs.

Battle, returning to her months ; " he has
never had a private chaplain, strangely enough.
He will turn as devout as his ancestor, Sir
Sholto, the praying friar, who wore away the
stones."

'' I heard about him," said Diana, waking up
once more.

Miss Masters would tell you all about it ;
a little gossip is she. Yes, Sir Sholto was in
awful earnest about his soul, 'twas said. He
lacerated his poor body, and washed the feet
of beggars. A great saint was he. To think
that grand place was once a monastery, and
crowded with monks ! Sir Sholto was a man
of mighty influence, [any gay fellows from
Mary's Court followed him to Whitefriars. Sir
Golf had the records of the Panmures as
readily at his finger-ends, if not more so,
than that of the Beauchamps. On winter
nights, over the filberts, he would tell me

long stories. He said Sir Sholto was called,
at Mary's Court, ' Beauty Panmure.' I'm sure
Sir Blaise might be called ' Beauty Panmure '
also. Would that he were as much in your
presence, Miss Beauchamp, as Mr. Cantilupe !
Then I should have no fear, but be happy."

Diana was smiling. But Mrs. Battle did not
see that smile ; she had hidden it by drooping
her head into the heart of the bouquet of damask
roses she carried in her hand.

Mrs. Battle paused in expectation of some
sort of answer ; but Diana seemed not to have
noticed her remark. She commenced to talk
about flowers, and said she should draw up a
calendar of them, and present it to Mrs. Battle ;
she should become as learned in botany as
Linnaeus.

The rumble of the fly did not facilitate
this style of conversation, and Mrs. Battle
did not pretend to follow it. Diana had.

however, succeeded in veiling a sentiment
which was as yet but a sentiment, but
which, like a bubbling stream hidden in the
hollow of a rock, had commenced to flow in
one direction, and could no more deviate from
its certain end than the swiftly-flowing river
can be impeded in its onward course by a
heap of stones flung at its naked bosom. Mrs.
Battle's cap, with its white marabout feathers
and crested aigrette, was nodding placidly,
loner before Diana had recovered from that

o

suggestion which had quickened the tiny
rivulet into conscious life, and sent it trickling
onwards, humming as it went.

Oh ! Rivulet, Rivulet, whither are you going ?
Your music will grow deeper, grander, as you
flow ; it will come across many a stretch of
dreary land, perchance, which it will turn into
pasturage, where cattle will graze on the
meadow-sweet, watered by your bounteousness

; it will flow on and on to its great
bourn  on, on, till it rushes into the mighty
embrace which awaits it. Will it be a course
of joy or pain  Rivulet, Rivulet ?

How half-conscious we are of these new
births within us. A word, a deed, and we are
launched on some new expedition. We grope
about within ourselves with a half-knowledge
of ourselves ; we place our hands at the hole of
the babbling stream, and cry, '* I have stemmed
it over " ; and then in childish dismay we hang
our heads with shame as we see we have but
made the streamlet babble forth in louder,
lustier song, as mockingly, mockingly it flows
by our baby impediments to its bourn, to its
bourn. Oh ! Rivulet, Rivulet, can we stay you ?
Is your song a song of joy for Diana, or is ita
song strung to pain ?

TRUE PHILOSOPHY.

There is also the Divined

For once a conclusion arrived at from bap-hazard
surmises was right. Sir Blaise Panmure
would read for Orders, and would be ordained.
Mrs. Battle, for once, had leapt to a perfectly
true conclusion.

On the morning after the " At Home " we
have just described, Sir Blaise and De Quinceyy
sat somewhat longer than usual at the breakfast
table. They had been discussing this very
point together, and looking at it from every
possible angle.

'ris it not too tied-down a life for me ? " said

Sir Blaise. *' Why should I not work away in
my own line ; give drawing-room meetings, if
you will, and open-air meetings likewise ?
Imagine me, my dear fellow, a curate, allowed
to run as far as my vicar permits me, and no
farther."

Organization in all things," said De Quinceyy.
"Now, more than ever, we require such menas
yourself in the Church  men of wealth and
position. I have sought the missionary fields,
because I consider any gifts I may possess are
needed there."

Many would say you are lost among the
heathen," said Sir Blaise.

"Then they would speak ignorantly," said
De Quinceyy ; " one must be a close and subtle
reasoner to argue with a cultivated Hindoo
or an astute Chinaman ; in ftict, a missionary,
to do great work, needs almost as many accomplishments
as an Admirable Crichton. He

should know many languages, be a musician,
a painter, an athlete  then the heathen would
be caught by shoals in the Galilean net. Our
best should be exported. Some of our best
have been exported. Take Selwyn and Paterson
; these men the heathen reverenced almost
as gods."

"True," said Sir Blaise ; "we must not grudge
you, De Quinceyy."

This autumn I am off to South Australia,
to work amongst our own heathen out there.
When an Englishman sinks he is more
utterly degraded than a citizen of any other
nation "

De Quinceyy's countenance was lighted up
with subdued fervour as he spoke. He had a
pure and noble brow ; he seemed to have
attained some inward heights, where the restless
soul sits calmly surveying the hurrying
world below with compassion and desire, yet

with no further contact with its passions, its
hopes, or its fears. What Gethsemane had
brought him so far on the spiritual road, it
concerns us not to meddle with. That hours
of meditative prayer watered his soul and
produced these mystic flowers of peace and
joy, which can only grow to perfection in the
climate of prayer, was manifest  such men
are witnesses in themselves to the truth of a
supernatural power. They are the spiritual
athletes who command our admiration.

In six months I can be ordained," said
Sir Blaise ; "I have taken my degree and
kept my terra. After a lapse of years, it will
seem curious to be back again in the rooms at
Oxford. I shall take a curacy at the East
End, T think ; I want to see human nature in
its ugliest form. I want to feel the wildest,
saddest pulse of the national heart. How can
I preach of the problems of life till I have

sounded, through others, the key-note of these
mysteries ? "

You have spoken truth, Panmure ; with
little knowledge comes the cynicism of this
critical generation ; the preachers of the new
school think they are the finders of a new
philosophy, whereas they are rushing farther
and farther into the mists, which will only
clear away at the touch of Faith. Wagner,
the founder of the music of the future, thought
he had discovered a new Art.

' Jets haven sie eine nee kumt' said he.
What has he said since ? The Ring of the
Nihelungs is a mistake ; in Parsifal he returned
to the old paths-the paths of melody
and perfect harmonies. To the beautiful, simple,
immortal law of real Art.

"So it will be by-and-by with our new
philosophers, when the madness of their unshackled
freedom of speech is over. When

they have drained their philosophies to the
last dreg they will cry out, ' It is a mistake.'

*' After all, the old truths are the best, and
they will begin to build up the old structures,
and once more people will understand what
they preach. The true philosophy preached
by the Christ sinks into your heart, and commences,
like beneficent rain, to break up the
fallow ground ; the false philosophy which
the advanced teachers of the new cult
preach, may get up into your head, and fill
you with the dreams of an opium-eater. It
will act on you after the same method. Ashen
the dreams are ended, come sickness and
death.

Picture the new philosophy striving to
enter into the warp and woof of the lives
of the toiling poor, with its grand phrases
and impossible tenets. Picture the horny
hand of a navvy turning over the pages of a

Schopenhauer. Well might lie turn round
and say, ' I asked bread of you, and you give
me a stone.' The Church has reared us
amidst her rites and pomps. Let us do her
behest in the way she points out  I to
labour amongst the heathen, you to labour
at home."

VOL. II.

PROBLEMS.

"Incident ought not to govern policy, hut policy incident. 

"It is for man to tame the chaos on every side 'whilst
he lives, to scatter the seeds of science and of song, that
climate, corn, animals, men may he milder, and the
germs of love and benefit may he multiplied."

"Dene Close,

'' Thursday, 10 a.i)U
"Dear Miss Beauchamp, 

You seemed so interested in the
legend of Hortense di Cantilupe last night,
that I should like to read it to you from the
MS. at Whitefriars. Sir Blaise has renewed
his permission with regard to my going whenever
I feel inclined to the library  it's worth

running riot in  you can pick up a pretty fair
amount of knowledge amongst his priceless
books. Any little learning I can boast I
gathered there.

Will you drive with me this afternoon at
four o'clock ?

*' Yours sincerely,

Francisca Masters. "

"Yes, I will," said Diana, making instant
and affirmative response.

Mrs. Battle did nothing but smile over
store-closets and cupboards that morning.
She was a romantic old dame, after all ; she
had a notion wedged in somewhere  it was a
pretty notion, she thought  and likely enough
her smiles continued till after luncheon, when
the following exclamations escaped her as she
stood at the dining-room window, puckering
and flouncing her browns out of all harmony.

F 2

Here he comes !  here he comes ! "

Who r' said Diana.

Mr. di Cantilupe (of course that's his real
name), the White Lady's descendant  I was
going to say ancestor  he always puts me into
confusion."

Diana rose, and looked with less serenity
than usual at the figure advancing; the grand
trees embracing each other, and the cloudless
smiling sky, greeted him with more of welcome
than Diana that day.

Ingrat ! " she whispered to herself, as she
entered the drawing-room ; '' how much he
has done for me, and yet "

What did she read in the welcome he gave
her declaration ?

Yes ; Mr. Cantilupe had been twisting about
those three problems which he had found the
most tiresome mathematical calculations, to
bring out satisfactorily after the manner of

other problems. He had come to make a
declaration, and he had decided to veil it in
such metaphorical language that if Diana did
not respond in some fashion, it should be so
abstruse and mistily worded that it could be
viewed as the reflection of a declaration.

I thought I saw Diego behind you," said
Diana, as she withdrew the hand Mr. Cantilupe
had detained a second longer than usual,
gazing abstractedly at the form and sculpturing
and fashioning of it.

"Yes, Diego is staying at the 'Green Man'"
said Mr. Cantilupe ; "he is often in this neighbourhood
now."

Why ? " said Diana surprised.

Is Miss Beauchamp guilty of metaphysical
questionings? Why' Then Mr. Cantilupe
fixed his gaze on the carpet, and was silent.

Yes, why ? " bursting into a merry laugh.
"I think it is so strange. What attraction

can Diego have about here ? Is he, too, a
Herefordshire man ? "

*' Diego's attractions are always connected
with m?/ attractions," said Mr. Cantilupe.
Diego is a description of surplus 7?ie, his
individuality is the overplus of mine ; deduct
some meaning, if you will, from this
speech."

*' Enigmatical and. mystic as usual," said
Diana. " You surely have not sprung from a
bucolic ancestry '? You cannot be English."

' Perhaps I date from the pyramids," said
Mr. Cantilupe.

Perhaps so," said Diana ; ** but more likely
from the Romans." Then she thought of
Hortense di Cantilupe.

'' Should I find increased favour in your
sight if I could proclaim myself an Etruriann ? "
said Mr. Cantilupe, bending forward and smiling
with his best smile at Diana.

* I love the Etruscans' said Diana. " I love
them on such a big scale that I could not
individualize such love  could not." She was
laughing back at Mr. Cantilupe, whose smile
had shifted its costume.

Ah ! love that is so big is not rare enough
to satisfy the Etruriann in me," said Mr. .
" Let me pass beneath your notice asa
member of the ' bucolics ' ; but do not be too
national in your love. May I repeat my question,
and say, ' Shall I find increased favour
in your sight if I proclaim myself an Englishman
i

I admire the English," said Diana ; " I
admire them on such a big scale that I could
not individualize such admiration."

Mr. Cantilupe's smile had shifted its costume
once more  he had many smiles.

"See," said he, "I have brought a pair of
Chinese shoes for the ' golden lilies,' as the

Chinese prettily call their wonderful feet.
"Will you wear them ? "

"I will use them for mural decoration,"
said Diana. '' Everything I possess
of any value I immediately display on these
walls."

The rarest of your possessions, Miss Beauchamp,
is ' power ' ; power to draw to yourself
the passionate attachment of individuals who
are not easily swayed in this form. Does
this knowledge cause you pleasure or pain ?
The very unconsciousness with which you use
this power renders it yet more invincible.
You have the power to draw all that is best ina
nature to yourself, and equally the power to
draw all that is most despicable. Forgive metis
so. Destiny is austere ; but fate  what is
fate ? Food for imbeciles. All is possible to a
mind resolved."

Mr. Cantilupe paused in his enigmatical

speech, and regarded Diana, who sat silent and
somewhat pale, before him.

"Yes, fate is for imbeciles. To be resolved
is to conquer one's fate," he continued. " Some
men ask for much, some ask for little, because
they are so prolific in themselves that out of
the little they can make ' the much.' Give
such men a tiny blade to cherish, and by-and-by
it will blossom and flower into some rare
and perfect fruit. A little love is enough for
them, because ' the little ' with them will become
* the great' There is one description
of love which is rare, rarer than genius itself.
'Tis a love which" can embrace Time, for
Time wins the day, steals the day to itself,
and locks it in its embrace at last. Have
you ever seen Time depicted as both the
slayer and the lover of the day ? There
are some women of whom it may be said,
T have seen the day! To define is to be

philosophical. I will not define. Need I
define ? "

Mr. Cantilupe awaited an answer, more to
dramatize his meaning than to win a response
from Diana. Enigmatical speeches can be
graciously waved aside, and she would not permit
herself to be conscious of Mr. Cantilupe's
meaning ; for the consciousness would confront
her with consequences which would endanger
the goal for which she was working,
and Diana was as set on conquest as any
general at the head of his troops. There was
a remorseless fervency in the eagerness with
which she pursued her enterprise  a remorseless
fervency which was ready to sweep away
impediments even to pain. But such was
Diana.

Mr. Cantilupe read her. He saw the
struggle, and in the struggle he descried hope.
*' She uses me ! In using me I have some

clciim on her generosity ; she will be conscious
of such claims, and then the thin wedge can
be v/ell introduced. She has put aside my
half confession for her own ends, and is not
altogether happy or pleased with herself"
Mr. Cantilupe, strolling leisurely towards the
window, was deciphering, with his usual
accuracy, mental paraphernalia. He was at
home when making an analysis of character,
just as your Worth is at home when he
classifies your external paraphernalia, and
adjusts you with such-and-such a pose in your
niche. From one of the windows in the 
at Beauchamp the towers of White-friars
were visible, and it was at this window
Mr. Cantilupe was standing. Waving his
hand in that direction, he said, " What of your
neighbour. Sir Blaise Panmure ? You were at
his place last night."

Yes," said Diana ; " but how do you know ? "

I, like Napoleon, know most things. Events
are made up of trifles from the little to the
big, everything goes by progression. What of
those confessions of Sir Blaise ? " Mr. Cantilupe
had suddenly turned and faced Diana, and she,
to her great annoyance, had crimsoned beneath
his glance.

You are going to Whitefriars this afternoon ;
I must not detain you," said he, glancing at his
watch.

Napoleon's method of obtaining knowledge
of people's movements, for instance,"
said Diana, half amused and half vexed ; " has
he left it amongst military tactics to be practised
a discretion ? "

Miss Beauchamp, I said just now fate is
for the imbecile. Destiny is austere : written
before me (perhaps I read them on the gates
of Busgrane) I see ' Be bold,' and evermore
*Be bold,' and 'Be not too bold.' Be sure I

shall always mingle a few grains of discretion
in my boldness. But your appointment is at
three o'clock, and the old sun-dial in your
garden keeps, I dare say, better time than our
modern time-tellers ; it's like The Diana to love
sun-dials and disdain watches.

"By-the-by, a jrojos of Whitefriars, did
you ever hear the famous couplet ?  famous in
these parts 

If a Panmure iced to a Beauchamp he,
The White Lady then to her rest will flee ' ?

Why the White Lady should desire a union
between these two houses tradition does not say ;
but tradition invariably wears a lace veil. She
half discloses her charms or half conceals
her blemishes ; she is more interesting than
history, because she appeals to our imaginations :
facts blight the visionary."

I delight in tradition," said Diana ; " there
is something sacred in its wildest extravagance

o o

to me. But is the White Lacey your ancestress,
Mr. Cantilupe ? "

No confessions for me, Miss Beauchamp ;
let us have to do with real men and women,
and not with * skipping ghosts.' " Then Mr.
Cantilupe held Diana's hand gracefully for
half a second, and was gone.

THE SONG OF THE EIVULET.

Given absolute perfection in a tcorld death-stricken, then,
not merely as Plato said, ' Must the good man suffer
at the hands of sinners hut the ideal must he perfected
hy submission to the common doom of death's

Mr. Caxttlupe had left Diana in a very uncomfortable
frame of mind. If she could
have put off the drive with Francisca Masters
she would gladly have done so. She wanted
to think. She could no longer blind herself
to the disagreeable truth that Mr. Cantilupe
regarded her with the love of a lover. But
would it be well to think ?

Diana had no vanity ; she had no lust of

conquest  no desire to make a physiological
study of this man's heart. She was not like
some of her sex, who thoroughly enjoy this
branch of scientific phenomena, and who
can trace a passion from its commencement to
its close, watching it in every stage of its development
with the cool discriminating glance
of a practised investigator of the ethics of
love. She enjoyed the friendship of intellectual
men ; but she had no desire to win them
from the consideration of these abstract things
to a personal consideration of her own attractions.


What should she do? Do? AVell, the only
thing possible  push aside this disagreeable
consciousness, and work on till the Court
was redeemed. Mr. Cantilupe had, after all,
garbed his speech so oddly, and darkened his
meaning so cleverly, that he had given her a
lead.

She need be in no way embarrassed by the
consciousness of his meaning ; if she desired not
to understand him, he was perfectly prepared
for her inability to understand him. :

"This ambition," she thought, "is it harmful?"


But who can pause to weigh and measure
when a coveted goal lies straight before them ?
And then it was such a laudable ambition.

Diana's musings had landed her at the
window, and Franciscans Shetlands were already
in sight, so further thought on this
subject must be kept in abeyance ; and then,
with a sudden revulsion, Diana was glad of it
glad of the drive, glad to get away from the
recollection of the dynamic power of the
glance with which Mr. Cantilupe had regarded
her, as, pausing for one second at the door, he
had again bowed as he left her presence.

"After all," she thought, as she greeted
VOL. II. a

Francisca with an absolute unconsciousness
which can make our words and the words of
others as void as space,  " after all, it may
not be love he feels for me ; it may be a
description of ambition to add me to his Art
collection."

And then Diana took her place beside Francisca,
and tried to feel as if in this matter she
was moving onwards without any volition of
her own, as if the intermingling of her destiny
with Mr. Cantilupe's was a possibility not to
be regarded. Her path lay straight before
her. One object filled it. If there was to bea
garden in her life, a delightsome garden, she
would walk in it with other than Mr. Cantus


Diana's eyelids had drooped. A dream-like
sense was about her ; but at last the repeated
question of Francisca aroused her.

'' How do you like my Cyprus cart? 1

cannot lay claim to the possessive pronoun asa
rule ; few are my possessions, but these four
Shetland ponies and these rough pieces of
wood slung together do really belong to me."

It is perfection," said Diana, as she took
her seat beside Francisca, and they drove off.

If Sir Blaise would give me his three
Skyes ' the turn-out would be unique," said
Francisca. " Did you go to the Dog Show at
the Alexandra Palace this season ? There was
a good entry of * Skyes,' and there was one
Newfoundland set me ' a-thinking.' "

*' Is that a rare occurrence ? " said Diana.

"Well, somewhat," said Francisca. " You
see I'm not particularly clever, though I
ought to be with the run of the library weare
going to this afternoon. My thoughts
are like the twigs that float down streams, or
the leaves that are blown hither and thither ;
as yet they have taken no root in the soil, so

G 2

there is no outcome. But to return to the
Newfoundland that set me a- thinking. He
was not a dog ; but a king. He held out his
Royal paw, and compelled obeisance. It was all
very well, to say to oneself you are only a dog.
He made you feel to the tips of your fingers
his magnificent condescension. I felt myself
to be a little yelping human creature dressed
up in clothes, while he was some great imprisoned
Monarch entered at a so-called Dog
Show."

Diana leaned back, and laughed ; she was glad
of Francisca's babbling stream of easy-flowing
words. Mr. Cantilupe's interview had altogether
unstrung her, and she felt for the first
time in her life a desire to escape from herself.
The treatment of one human being on
another was making itself felt. She had
enjoyed his intellectual conversation ; she
had experienced much pleasure in his society.

and now he wished to bind a chain about her.
Must she forego her dearest desire ? Must
she resign her cherished hope ? Must Beauchamp
remain in the hands of the Je\YS ?
Diana felt like a leader who sees a short cut
to victory, and yet feels it were better to
forego that victory, because the particular
road that leads to it may lead also to reproach.
However, for this afternoon she would put
aside the consideration of the subject, and
give way to the delicious wooing of Nature,
Nature, with its sweet, external touch.

You are grave, Miss Beauchamp. Gravity
of this description hardly becomes you."

Francisca was gazing intently at Diana ;
the gracious carvings of her moulded lips and
chin, the glad yet shifting light in her eyes,
seemed to be replaced by a mute sternness.
Was this Diana ? Diana straightened her
lithe form, and smiled a little forcedly.

** I ought to wear a mask if my thoughts
are so easily read." Then she laughed, and
the last cloud cleared.

Now I will tell you a secret," said
Francisca, lightly touching up her gay little
team. '' Do you remember meeting Felicia
Novello in London this season ? "

"I believe I did see her at Lady Mary
Charters," said Diana.

Just so. Well, she and I are going to
start a Limited Company, like Besant and
Vice, and write a novel. We shall take all
our characters from life, and write what we
know and see."

Shall you be afraid of the critics ? " said
Diana. " I know I am."

No ! " said Francisca decidedly. " We
shall have no matter-of-fact people in our
book, so we shall require a little imagination,
a little freedom from bias, a little abhorrence

of sectional lines, and a little dressing of
originality to be brought to bear on us."

"Your demands are so modest, that I think
you will easily find what you require," said
Diana amusedly.

I have seen a little character about here
I intend to work into my book."

Who is he ? " said Diana lazily.

You do well to count character as a male
prerogative," said Francisca; '''he is a dwarf,
a very clever-looking little dwarf; he has a
happy facility for climbing trees, and he
haunts these roads, and talks to the lodge-keepers.
I dare say we shall see him today."


"Are you quite sure he is a dwarf?" said
Diana hastily.

"As sure as one can be of anything. Men
of science tell us that our imagination clothes
the world as it is. Things are not what they

seem ; perhaps my dwarf is a giant. There
he is, I declare. Now, is he a dwarf?"

Strolling leisurely along the dusty road,
with his head bent and his arms clasped
behind him, was Diego. As Francisca tooled
by, Diana endeavoured to catch his eyes, but
he did not look up ; so checking the words
that flew to her lips she said nothing, and
Francisca, who never remained more than a
few seconds on one subject, had darted ofi*
to another.

"We may see Sir Blaise this afternoon.
We will go straight to the library, and about
five o'clock Vizard will peer in, and if he finds
us there, in another few minutes tea will
appear. Dear Sir Blaise ! I confess I love
him hopelessly ; it 's very shocking to love a
man who has no idea you love him, and has
no idea of loving you; but so it is. I'm not
like Elaine  sweet Elaine ! No barge will

float down ye Herefordshire Ever bearing me
oa its bosom. AVho but Tennyson, the most
refined of singers, could touch a woman's
confession of her love without alloy to spoil
the gold ? Who but Tennyson '?

Yes, I love Sir Blaise ; have always so loved
him, for I have known him since I was
a child. I used to bring my doll and sit
in the library window at Whitefriars, and
he would dress and undress it ninety times in
an hour for me. I used to run away from my
governesses, nurses, and paraphernalia, and
secrete myself in the grounds. I was a
naughty little girl, the despair of everybody 
a wild creature, hating gloves and boots, and
longing to boil a kettle by the wayside, and
commit depredations. And now an immeasurable
distance has come between Sir Blaise and
me ; he has entered a field of thought of which
I seem to know nothing  experimentally."

"You allude to last night," said Diana
dreamily.

He is an impassioned man  once in
earnest, and indifferent to public opinion,"
said Francisca, " I think he might become like
Savonarola.

"What wonderful men there have been in
the world ! None wholly good, but still
great lights, pointing out in the darkness, and
beckoning. These men have burning within
them red flames ; not the flickering pale
attenuations which spring from waxen
candles, but great lurid lights which blaze
down the ages. They are power-loving men,
if you will ; they seek great ends, perhaps they
are not too particular as to the means. The
end obtained, the very means throw a reflected
grandeur.

Think of Savonarola ! '* continued Francisca,
kindling with her theme. " See the

power he exercised over men. See them
brinorinor their vanities to burn them in the
cleansing fires. They brought the mad frolic
of the Carnival, and laid it at his feet ; their
joys henceforth were to be pure joys. Did
this man do a great work ? In so far as he
taught the people the law of self-sacrifice, he
did a noble work. He was filled with a
passionate faith, was he not ? I desire to see
Sir Blaise a great 'slight" From the moment
he made those confessions last night, which
sounded so strange to our conventional ears 
ears which only respond to the tinkling bells
of modern platitudes  my love was swamped
to a great extent in ambition. I could have
cried, ' Go forth with a clearer message than
Savonarola, and deliver it.' "

With these words, Francisco's little team
swept in at the grand entrance to Whitefriars,
the gates of which to-day were thrown wide open.

'' This is something new' said Francisca.
What does this mean ? Are the Jacks and
Fills of all classes to disport themselves in the
grounds whensoever they will ? Is Christianity
the great Republic ? "

Francisca led the way to the library sans
ceremonie, passing swiftly through one or two
splendid corridors, from whose walls Pan-muses,
in every style of dress and period of
history, smiled or frowned down upon the
pair.

The Panmures had evidently a mania for
being canvassed' said Francisca ; '' there is
one gallery given up entirely to them ; but
that's not sufficient, they look out from every
nook and corner as well. Stop a minute," she
said, as Diana was passing on somewhat hastily,
here is a portrait of Sir Sholto before he
turned friar. Is he not like Sir Blaise \ "

Diana stood long, gazing reflectively at the

gay Cavalier of Mary's Court (he looked more
fitted for Elizabeth's). Yes ; there was Sir
Blaise, the same fond gaillard lighting up the
eyes and playing about the strongly marked
features, and the same enthusiasm irradiating
the brow, which misjht lead him to the heights
or the depths.

*come a step farther, and you shall see
Hortense," said Francisca, lowering her voice
mysteriously, and advancing on tip-toe as if
approaching an altar.

They had passed down a flight of steps, and
entered a deep recess, which stood to the left
of the central staircase ; a full-length portrait
filled it, and before it hung a curtain of deep
azure velvet.

Sweeping aside the drapery, Francisca displayed
the wonderful beauty of Hortense di
Cantilupe  beauty so ethereal and spirit-wrapt
that, even in the somewhat conventional robes

of a maid-dishonour, she seemed more the
child of the mists and the clouds than of
earth.

There is no beauty to me without a sense
of mystery," said Francisca. '' In Hortense
my meaning is explained. The shadow of a
great thought is in her face. You looked like
this last night, Diana. Indeed, you resemble
the White Lady. Could you love like this
Hortense 1 "

Without awaiting an answer to her pertinent
question, Francisca dropped the curtain
over the picture once more, and said, " Let us
hasten to the library ; IVe so much to show
you there. How do you like me as cicerone
Confess I'm not so awful as those awful men
who do guide at abbeys and celebrated places.
When we were looking over Grossly Chapel
last year, one of these terrible birds of prey
picked our intelligences clean away. How he

tapped his foot on hollow ground, and croaked
of tombs beneath, and pointed with a forefinger,
armed with a cruel nail, at the prentice
pillar !

What do you think of this library ? No
room for pictures here. Books, books  nothing
but books. All the record that is left of nations
and peoples is crowded here."

Diana had taken a seat in the window, and
was looking silently round.

Yes ; it was a room in which to think, and
after thought had germinated, to bring forth
some grand crowning action, and hurl it into
the seething cosmos to work its end.

Greece is here  the living Greece of the past,
not the dead Greece of the present. Italy is
here  the Italy that Dante knew, and that
Angelo turned into a colossal Art garden.
Here lies the thought, too, of ancient man 
the thought of the Pagan, childlike, worshipful

seeing a God in the mountains, streams,
lakes  seeing something so supernatural in
Nature that they must needs fall down before
it in adoration. A blind worship, if you will ;
but, perhaps, less blind than the worshippers
of the reign of law.

If we had lived in a coal - cellar all our
lives, and were brought out one summer day
to see sunrise over an Alpine range, who
knows but we might fall down and worship
that sun, thinking it some glorious god travelling
through the heavens in garments spun
in light ? We grow materialistic by the very
familiarity of supernatural surroundings. We
live midway 'twixt heaven and earth, but our
thoughts cleave earthwards by the force of
gravitation. 'Tis not till the strings that bind
us are cut one by one that we can mount and
soar, and cast off our heavy clearings. Paganism
is an allegory ; but an allegory is the

forward-thrown shadow of the truth which
lurks behind. Paganism has truth at the
bottom of all its rubbish, like Hope at the
bottom of Pandora's box. Better Paganism
than Materialism ; better something to worship
than nothing.

It's no use, you are in a silent mood ; and
if Miss Beauchamp chooses to be silent, she
will be silent," said Francisca.

As she spoke, the door swung wide, and Sir
Blaise, followed by Mr. De Quinceyy, entered.

I saw the Shetlands," said Sir Blaise, ashe
greeted Francisca with much cordiality,
and Diana with a distinction which Francisca
would have craved.

De Quinceyy and I had intended running
up to Oxford to-day, but we changed our minds.
It's too bad of us to interrupt your studies,
though."

But for this library," said Francisca, " I

VOL. II. H

should never be known to posterity as the
exponent of nineteenth century savagery.
But for these elegantly-bound sometime rags
which crowd these shelves, I should be a
greater dunce than I am. I have brought
Miss Beauchamp to see the spot where genius
took fire."

Have you shown Miss Beauchamp some of
the most valuable MSS. ? " said Sir Blaise.

Then he fetched one or two old vellum-bound
treasures, and handed them to Diana.

'' The work of monks," said he. "Is not the
handwriting curiously cramped ? "

Mr. De Quinceyy was talking to Francisca,
and Sir Blaise stood facing Diana as she again
sat down on the oak window-sill, with her back
against the wainscoting. She was dressed ina
white fabric, much trimmed with some old
lace she had found in that cherished lumber-room.
A few roses were clasped in the

Eoman belt she constantly wore  it was a
gift from the Pope to her ; for the fame
of Diana's recitations had even entered into
Pontifical ears, and at his request she had
recited privately before himself and his Cardinals,
and the old man had given her this
gem-set belt with his blessing ; and Diana,
prizing his gift, constantly wore it.

Looking at her as she sat there with her
head bent over the ancient MS., and the perfect
grace and pose of her figure bathed in
the sunlight. Sir Blaise, whether consciously
or unconsciously, felt what he had never felt
before, felt what Adam felt when God gave
him Eve  a great love for her.

Thus twice within the last few months had
Diana struck on a mine ; for chat is love but a
mine ? You may dig and find the purest gotha
ever passed the doors of the Mint, or you
may dig and find little but gold-dust. The

H 2

mine may yield you its rich wealth all your
life, or it may blow up and scatter you to
a thousand bits. Oh ! it's dangerous work is
this digging in the mines.

Looking up from those mouldy yellow sheets
of crabbed writing, hard to be understood,
Diana met her  destiny, if you will ; met the
0)16 man who could whisper life's grandest,
deepest, sweetest mystery to her as the days
go by ; met the one man at whose touch the
divine music, the first note of which is struck
in Heaven and found on Earth, would henceforth
steal about her heart-strings, and ring
out the entrancing strains of life's most sacred
harmonies, or the wild dirge of a chant which
lead ended in woe  the One man.

Diana handed back the MS. in silence, and
Sir Blaise took it as silently. Not a word had
passed between them which would awaken
consciousness in any onlooker that a babbling

stream was flowing onwards to its bourn,
babbling and gurgling, as it went, of Love, of
Love, of Love. Yet so it was !

TWO YEARS.

WJnj do you speak so much to the ]jurjJose of that lohich
is nothing to the interpose ? "

Our friend, the dwarf, once more ! " said
Francisca, as they passed out at the Gates of
Whitefriars. " He must have been lingering
about the roads all this time. He is a person to
inspire alarm. I'm glad we are in England  not
Ireland."

This time, as they drove swiftly by, Diego
looked up, and fixed his small twinkling
eyes on Diana, touching his cap at the same
moment.

You know who he is ! " said Francisca

excitedly. " He touched his cap, and looked
so strangely at you !

Who ? What ? When ? Where ? I'm too
excited to gather my thoughts into words. He
has such an evil eye''

Diana was occupied with the fastening of her
parasol, and when she did speak, she said somewhat
coldly 

He is the servant of Mr. Cantilupe."

Mr. Cantilupe owns Cosmos Hall ? " said
Francisca.

I believe so, or has considerable interest in
the speculation. Anyhow, he has been particularly
kind to me ; in fact, 1 owe him much,
as it is through him I hope to redeem Beauchamp.
Of course you know, what everybody
here knows, that it is mortgaged heavily ? "

Of course I do," said Francisca, " and
nobody admires your enterprise more than I
do. This little dwarf, then, is Mr. Cantus

servant, and Mr. Gantilupe is your
friend ? "

Francisca paused. She longed to say more
she longed to know if Felicia Novello's
report were true. But there is something in
caste ; and Francisca was sufficiently well bred
not to venture into the private rooms of Diana's
history.

When Diana reached home she found a letter
from Mr Gantilupe awaiting her ; it had been
written shortly after leaving her that afternoon.
It ran thus : 

'the Green Man,

"4.30 P.M.

"Dear Miss Beauchamp,

In the hurry of our interview to-day,
I forgot to ask you to sign the enclosed document.
I have calculated exactly how long it
will take you to fulfil the aim for which you
are working with so much enthusiasm. In

two years the goal will be reached ; but I cannot
make my plans with regard to a fresh lease
of Cosmos Hall, without your signature. I must
know that you bind yourself to appear (unless
illness prevent) during the period assigned.

You will not marVel that I make such
conditions binding, when you consider that,
as matters now stand, you may see fit, at any
moment, to cease all connection with recitations
; and as you are the chief attraction at
the Hall, and likely to continue so, I cannot
incur the responsibility of renewing the lease,
which the absolute owner now demands, unless
I am sure of your continued attendance.

I have admired from the first your determination
to redeem Beauchamp, and I feel sure
that no butterfly pursuit will drag you from
a great object. In two short years, those
glorious trees will be absolutely yours, and
the ancient fabric rid of pestilent mortgages.

After carefully perusing the enclosed with
your lawyer, sign it, and return it to me.
I am, always yours,

"Cantilupe."

Mrs. Battle, finding Diana did not respond
to the gong which had sounded at the usual
hour for dinner, went upstairs and knocked at
her door.

*' I will not dine this evening, thank you,
Mrs. Battle," Diana responded from within.

x4re you quite well, Miss Beauchamp ? "
said Mrs. Battle anxiously ; and then she
ventured to try the handle of the door, which,
however, she found locked.

"I am quite well, Mrs. Battle; q/tife well.
Only I don't want any dinner to-night," said
Diana again.

Dear, dear ! " Mrs. Battle repeatedly
ejaculated as she descended the staircase.

When people turn against their food there
is something the matter with them, thais
clear. Heart, or head, or digestive organs 
one of the three. Now, which of the three is
it ? Oh ! dear, dear ! What a puzzle life is !
One is always hitting odc's head against something
one can't understand. Heart, or head,
or digestive organs, these swell the doctors'
bills between them. If we had no hearts, we
should do well ; if we had no heads, we should
do better ; and if we had no digestive organs,
we should do best. That's my poor opinion ;
but my opinion is of no account  I'm only
Martha Battle."

Diana sat at the window of her bed-room,
her head leaning on her hand. She sat in the
same attitude for long. Nature was busy at
her work. Night was softly approaching.
Now a world revealed itself, and now a constellation
of worlds. Now the moon looked

down with a rosy face. Harvest was close at
hand  Nature's jubilee. The moon's round
stare was full of questionings. The children
of earth have their harvest, too. What of the
harvest ? The blind flap of bats' wings made
dull vibrations in the air. A fragrance of
roses was carried by a passing breeze. Sound
and sight and sense were all, doubtless,
passing within as Diana sat there. For, however
pre-occupied we may be, we are never
impervious to impressions ; they are stealing
about us with certain steps, and long, long after
they may stir us to a madness of recollection.

This absolute stillness which had crept into
Diana's soul  what was it ? Was it not the
prelude to an awakening, such as Nature feels
when the spring sun has kissed it into such
fervency of bliss that the flowers wake into
being, and the trees into bud, and the birds
into an ecstasy of song ?

At last she rose, and, clasping her arms
above her head, looked out into the night,
and with one long, dreamful sigh, turned
away. Then lighting a swing lamp which
hung; from the ceilings, she re-read Mr.
Cantilupe's letter carefully, questioningly ; then
paced the room with slow, measured steps
several times, as if counting the cost of each
syllable of that letter.

Two years  two little years, and my goal
is reached. Two years  two little years, and
the ' Beauchamps, of Beauchamp,' are out of
the hands of the Jews. Ashy should I
hesitate ? "

This time she paused in her pacing to and
fro before the escritoire ; blotting-book, paper,
ink  all invited her. She sat down and wrote
her answer.

Beauchamp,

'' 10 P.M.

"Dear Mr. Cantilupe,

Two years will seem like two days,
with such an end in view. I have signed the
document, without consulting any lawyer. I
have mastered the contents, and am perfectly
satisfied with those contents.

"Many thanks for your continued liberality
and kindness.

Always yours sincerely,

"Diana Beauchamp."

Then, after folding and directing her letter,
Diana unlocked the door, and descended the
staircase, with a step so buoyant, that Mrs.
Battle, sitting in the drawing-room, pretending
to read, felt that she was hitting about in the
dark more helplessly than ever.

Neither heart, head, nor digestive organs were

the words she found herself reading on the pages
of her open book.

Miss Austen had not composed them ; they
found no price in '' Emma." which Mrs. Battle
was construing.

Emma " might marry anybody she liked.
Mrs. Battle had lost all interest in her. She
was puzzling out Miss Beauchamp's unusual
behaviour.

When the beings with whom we live become
inscrutable to us, when we feel that they are
drifting: away in some strange bark, and that
somehow they are foro-getting to stand and wave
to US as they float farther and farther into the
distance, we stretch out our hands, if we love
them, with a mute cry  a cry which in its very
minuteness can never recall them.

Mrs. Battle was incapable of such sentiments.
She was eminently practical, and
practical people are never imaginative. She

was disturbed because Miss Beauchamp had
shown an indisposition for any dinner. This
was her grievance. Any deviation from the
routine of meals seemed to her like opening
the floodgates to every kind of evil. She shut
up Miss Austen's " Emma," and peered into the
dimly-lighted hall.

The hall door stood wide open. Miss
Beauchamp had probably gone for a stroll
in the flower garden. Evening damps, and
no dinner ! Mrs. Battle must use remonstrance.
She took her coup hat from a peg,
and, tying the strings, determinately sallied
forth.

' Homespun, Homespun, you have yet to
find me out," said Diana, as they met in the
untrimmed walk which still went by the name
of the * Rosary.' " I have mes nights blanches,
like Heller. I want to walk miles to-night. I
would choose a wild, desolate wilderness. I

think such a scene would discipline me. I
feel so luxuriantly gay, I want to remember
that life has two faces : the pale face, full of
haunting fears, and the rosy face which has
caught the reflection of the sun."

Walk miles with never a morsel of food
since luncheon to support you, Miss Beauchamp,
and the clock on the stroke of eleven ! What
next, what next ? "

*' Come," said Diana, ' let us go in, and tomorrow
I will show you I can still appreciate
platr

VOL. II.

A TRIANGLE.

*' We keep each other in countenance, and exasperate hy
emulation the frenzy of the time."

While the finely-spun webs which make up
the rare clothing of inner experiences were
being deftly woven into the pattern which
would henceforth mark them off distinctively,
a very different style of weaving was going
on in the drawing-room where Mrs. Bovin
reigned supreme amongst the upper townsfolk.
Mrs. Battle had found her way thither,
accompanied by Miss Edwards, upon whom
she had looked in en route. For a downright
gossip, three is better company than two :

the triangle, after all, has a very perfect
finish.

Miss Edwards, backed by ' Bee ton's Universal,'
could ' throw in ' and ' throw out ' when
Mrs. Bovin's and 'Mrs. Battle's intelligences
had become somewhat too diffusely intermingled.


Mrs. Bovin's china was proverbial. If the
county folk had their jewels and lace, she had
her Crown Derby and Dresden ; and. furthermore,
she did not display her kettles on the
wall, nor her cups in ealjinets : she kept her
china in constant use, only washing every
separate piece of it with her own capable
hands.

The generations before me were capable-handed
people," she would say to Mrs. Battle
and other admiring friends, '*' not afraid to
dust a piece of mahogany, or show a round
arm now and again ; and because Mr. Bovin

I 2

has a trick of turning the colour of a silver
piece by a glance at a title-deed, do you think
I am going to fancy myself  a Jersey Lily, for
instance ? '

On this particular afternoon, Mrs. Bovin
was quite prepared for visitors. A bunch of
gay roses, on whose petals a great bee was
making desperate onslaught, and a cluster of
dewdrops which no sun-rays would gather,
decorated the left side of an arrangement in
blonde and muslin, which for puffing and
plain tings could hold itself unrivalled this side
of the Channel.

Miss Edwards had a trick of running forward
to greet you, and then accomplishing her
retreat with a succession of hops. Mrs. Battle
was always the same in and out of society 
slow of movement ; but those movements
complete, and once set in motion, bounding
on in full sail. She sailed down the

Ion Of narrow drawing-room of the Limes
now.

Delighted ! " said Mrs. Bovin, as she greeted
her ; and then she repeated her exclamation to
Miss Edwards, only pinching it somewhat. She
was not so sure about triangular gossips as
Mrs. Battle ; but Mrs. Battle was cleverer than
Mrs. Bovin, if a just measurement of brains and
brain-forming matter had taken place.

It's some time since I was in Leominster,"
said Mrs. Battle, taking off her gloves ; for the
golden hands of the French clock were approaching
five, and the aroma of tea was in the air, and
also of a very crisp and uncommon little teacake,
the receipt for which had descended for
many generations in Mrs. Bovin's family ; a
tea-cake which was equally welcome in Summer
and Winter, having certain properties which
made it rise to an inconceivable lightness under
a Summer sun.

You have not been to see me since your
return from London," said Mrs. Bovin ; " and
I must complain. Complaining, Mrs. Dampyy
says, pay the doctors' fees."

Oh ! Mrs. Dampyy," said Mrs. Battle and
Miss Edwards, lauohino in Wagner-like discordances.
" That's just like Mrs. Dampyy,"
continued Mrs. Battle. "How is she ? "

*' Have you not heard ? " said Mrs. Bovin.

Heard what ? " said Mrs. Battle, looking at
Miss Edwards, who was perhaps studying a
problem Breton did not enter upon.

The relict of the late Lieutenant is about to
throw off her weeds," said Mrs. Bovin, playing
with the sugar-tongs ; for tea had entered, and
the hereditary cake too.

Mrs. Battle drew out a snowy handkerchief
and placed it on her lap ; it was folded in the
square which laundresses approve, and Mrs.
Battle shook it before she spoke. Then she

said, what she always said when collecting the
scouts and followers of her great army of
thoughts, '* Dear, dear ! "

Oh ! it's true enough," said Mrs. Bovin.
'' Mr. Bovin is attending to settlements now.
I hear there is to be a big settlement, both
ways. Mr. Wimple is a very different man to
the late Lieutenant. I remember, Mr. Bovin
had all the arrangements of her first marriage,
too ; and the poor dear Lieutenant remarked,
Bother the settlements ! ' "

*' Dear, dear ! " said ]\L"s. Battle, who was still
collecting her scattered forces.

'*Mr. Wimple does not so express himself,"
said Mrs. Bovin. *' He is an underwriter at
Lloyd's ; so we shall lose Mrs. Dampyy altogether."


Wimple is the name," said Mrs. Battle, " at
last. Well, I am surprised at Mrs. Dampyy ; I
thought her a superior woman."

There are few superior women now-a-days,"
said Mrs. Bovin. " Superiority is not marketable,
I hear. However, there it is  the settlements
are drawn up, and the banns published
for the first time last Sunday in the parish
church, Mrs. Dampyy and Mr. Wimple sitting
together in the foremost pew beneath the reading
desk, listening. Now, what do you say to
that ? "

I say, what I am constantly saying," said
Mrs. Battle, helping herself in absent fashion
to the hereditary cake, "it's all of one piece.
I was telling Miss Beauchamp all about my
courtship, the night before last. Courtship, in
my day, was like the steps of a minuet. Was
it not so, Mrs. Bovin ? '*

*' So it was' said Mrs. Bovin emphatically.

Miss Edwards, looking down, murmured,
Yes, yes," and then hurriedly presented her
cup for replenishment. So many courtships.

past and present, had been narrated to her, of
so many and various forms, that she felt quite
sure that she had come through the wear and
tear, and vows and bows, and whatnots, of
the entire arrangement.

I should like to describe Mr. Wimple,"
said Mrs. Bovin, 'only I have no faculty for
description."

"Not at all surprising, dear Mrs. Bovin,"
said Miss Edwards, who saw her way to score
a point. " Not at all surprising ; it is distinctive
of the Saxon race. We bugle our
descriptions of people, places, and things.
Ask anybody to direct you somewhere in
England, and I have illustrated my meaning.
In the first place, they are strangers ; in the
second, they point in the wrong direction ; and
in the third, they really do know the spot,
only, what with the first to the left, and the
third to the right, and the second to the left

again, you somehow fail to grasp their map of
locomotion.

True," said Mrs. Bovin ; " still I will
attempt to describe Mr. Wimple, because Mrs.
Battle may then recognize him, if she meets
him by chance. He has a neat foot  it looks
as if it must dance ; such pointed, skipping
toes ; and a big nose  aggressive nose  Mrs.
Dampyy will have to give way ; and grey
hair, and a black moustache."

*' Black and grey, an odd mixture, except asa
tweed," said Mrs. Battle. '' What does that
mean J

Means what it looks," said Mrs. Bovin,
smiling.

Ah ! " said Mrs. Battle, '' poor Mrs. Dampyy !
The late Lieutenant was a very superior man
vastly superior to Mr. Wimple, I suspect."

Fm afraid so," said Mrs. Bovin. "Is it
true," she continued, throwing herself back in

the little sandal-wood chair, which creaked
and groaned beneath her weight ; " is it true
that Miss Beauchamp is about to be married
to the gentleman who has introduced her to
notice ? "

Miss Beauchamp required no introducing
to notice," said Mrs. Battle, panting a little ;
she is Miss Beauchamp, of Beauchamp."

*' True," said Mrs. Bovin ; '' still she has
stepped down from her pedestal when people
pay their money to hear her recite. She
stands, as Mr. Bovin says, in an isolated and
peculiar position."

Talent often lands people in peculiar positions,"
said Mrs. Battle, whose pan tings were
accentuated. " Talent turns a world upside
down sometimes, and talent is not to be
hemmed in by walls so high that their neighbours
can't see over them. Talent will have
an audience, Mrs. Bovin, and maybe the

world is its audience. Miss Beauchamp will
soon have paid off the mortgage. We shall
see what she will do then. Will you allow ita
grand achievement to set the estate free ? "

Grand, if she does not pay too dearly for
it," said Mrs. Bovin, pursing up her lips ; " but
hearsay, hearsay  after all it's worth nothing."

"You may contradict hearsay," said Mrs.
Battle ; " there is nothing whatever between
Mr. Cantilupe and Miss Beauchamp. I have
my own views for her ; whether or not I shall
see them realized, I cannot say ; but a pretty
little love-tale does not take long to spin, and
is a pleasant pastime. Ah ! I've a spinning-wheel
of my own, and the thread I use is fine
and rare as Miss Beauchamp herself."

Then Mrs. Battle untied her bonnet-strings,
and sent them flying. Exasperating hearsay,
and the day so warm, too 1

Outside, hidden away in some corner of the

trim o;arclen, a wild bird was whistling: his
long low notes, and linking them here and
there in a chain of broken melody  a song of
mingled Earth and Heaven ; but the three
ladies did not notice these wondrous harmonies,
which are amongst the pure joys our earth
distils ; harmonies of sound and colour were
lost on them  like all subtle things, they may
pass by unseen. Many are the subtle forms
of joy that pass us by because of our dulness
and our dimness. We are but half conscious
yet, the most delicately organized of us.

You have heard about Sir Blaise Panmure
? " said Mrs. Battle suddenly.

Mrs. Bovin was silent  silence means so
many things.

He will be a great preacher," continued
Mrs. Battle. " He will be a great man. He
astonished us all last night. He explained
why he has shut himself up for so long. He

knew all sorts of absurd reports were circulated.
He silenced all the silly talk last
night. He is a great man  a brave man. But
no living man, in my estimation, could ever
approach Sir Blaise, unless it was my poor
dear Tricks" (another of Mrs. Battle's pet
names for her husband).

This was too much for Mrs. Bovin ; the bee
on the rose began to flutter. She relinquished
the gleam of wrath she had felt in the
consciousness that Mrs. Battle had been at
Whitefriars, in the absurdity of a comparison
which affected her like a caricature, and
commenced to laugh the easy laugh which
Mr. Bovin found so soothing and restful after
the crackles of parchments at his offices.

But Mrs. Battle had risen in some warmth,
and Miss Edwards had followed her example.
Even a triangle can get terribly out of tune,
and have disadvantageous sides.

PLACID SYMPATHY.

** To he a-cockef, or talkative, is the humour most natural to
women."

What of our fair ex client ? " said Mr.
Bovin that evening, as he faced Mrs. Bovin at
dinner.

The table was bright with flowers and fruit,
and Mr. and Mrs. Bovin looked the typical
English couple, situated midway in the classification
of class with class. Florid with a
stationary floridness which was the natural
product of the soil from which they had
equally sprung  a soil which yields these

substantial and representative couples by the
gross.

The union was a happy one. It was a
union of placid sympathy. Mrs. Bovin had
not a grain of combativeness in her disposition,
and Mr. Bovin made up for this deficiency,
for there was a cyclone within him now and
then. The laziness of his summery aspect
seemed to give a flat denial to such choler ;
but because a leaf scarcely stirs during an
Eastern summer, is this a guarantee against the
rao-inPf dust which will come whistling across

o o o

the plain by-and-by, carrying in one wild
tempest all before it ? Mrs. Bovin had never
witnessed the cyclone ; but a dim consciousness
is sometimes as full of conviction as a further
demonstration. This grain of fear was wholesome
; it kept her just there.

Mr. Bovin repeated his question, as he
slipped first one well-covered member into one

pocket, and then the other ; and lowering
himself a few inches in the well-stuffed chair
which, in consort with Mrs. Bovin's chair,
tinged it over the mite by virtue of certain
bars and extra adornments  and spreading his
feet beneath the table, thus prepared himself
for the hour of the day when he could enjoy
a mental stretch.

Mrs. Bovin leaned her left arm on the table,
and with her right hand stroked a curl into
position. She liked to toy with an answer to
this question. She liked to show herself equal
to a little lawyer-like parrying. It is impossible
to consort with documents without profiting
thereby.

Besides, she knew a certain smile with
which Mr. Bovin greeted these little attempts
of hers  a smile at once playful,
promising, and productive. She could get a
tiresome importunate little bill paid when he

VOL. II. K

looked like that, and she had been a beetle
extravagant that summer ; for Mrs. Dampyy's
gros grain was quite too presumptuous, and
leading ladies in county towns have to keep
up their position ; the rustle of Mrs. Bovin's
silk, as she swept up the aisle of the
parish church on Sunday morning, must
be a deeper, louder rustle than Mrs.
Dampyy's.

Mr. Bovin knew what was coming perfectly
well ; and Mrs. Bovin also knew that he
understood her. Placid sympathy between
married couples is not such a bad foundation,
after all  this perfect prescience of one another
on these very ordinary lines, and these little
playful results. Matrimony, under such circumstances,
will hold a few grains of lover-like
reminiscences to the end.

What of your fair ex-client, Mr. Bovin ?
Mrs. Battle was with me to-day."

"Mrs. Battle is not my fair ex-client," said
Mr. Bovin, smiling.

Mr. Bovin, I am leading up to your
question, by informing you of the medium
through which I have had my information."

'' Bravo I " said Mr. Bovin, removing his right
hand from his pocket, and lazily helping himself
to a little dry biscuit, which was supposed
to be endowed with certain unrivalled digestive
properties, if you happened to believe the
advertisements which heralded its appearance
as the Panacea Biscuit ; " sometimes I begin
(only begin) to fear you are about to become
a clever woman."

Mrs. Bovin smiled ; Mr. Bovin was in high
humour. She would not only get the gros
grain bill paid, but she would have another
and richer gros grain to obliterate the recollection
of Mrs. Dampyy 's gorgeousness from Leominster
recollection.

K 2

Mrs. Battle called, accompanied by the
doctor's sister," continued Mrs. Bovin ; " and
they had tea with me."

"Tea," said Mr. Bovin; "why do ladies
invariably gossip over tea ? I daresay you all
three gossiped."

You would rather not hear about Miss
Beauchamp, then ? " said Mrs. Bovin, glancing
up at the ceiling in apparent forgetfulness.


This glance at the ceiling was well known
to Mr. Bovin ; it carried a long procession of
such playful marital interviews in its wake.

"Mrs. Bovin," said Mr. Bovin, "if this
piece of mahogany did not divide us, I might
pat your hand. Consider I have done so, and
proceed."

Mrs. Bovin smiled again, and her eyes
slowly wandered from the consideration of a
fat Cupid playing with a ball in an obscure

corner of the ceiling, to a further consideration
of the shining baldness of Mr. Bovin's

o

head.

Mrs. Battle looks well," she said, " very
well. Living with Miss Beauchamp agrees
with her. She is much attached to her."

Ho ! ho 1 " said Mr. Bovin ; '' I wonder if
Mrs. Battle told you whom JVIiss Beauchamp
intends to employ as her lawyer when I finally
hand over all the documents connected with the
estate."

Have you ever regretted that afternoon's
work?" said Mrs. Bovin, placidly.

Regrets, my dear, have not a legal profile,"
said Mr. Bovin, helping himself to yet another
Panacea Biscuit.

I asked if the report of Miss Beauchamp's
approaching marriage to Mr. Cantilupe were
true," said Mrs. Bovin.

Well ? " said Mr. Bovin.

Mrs. Bovin again glanced upwards at the
never-ending game at ball on the ceiling.

'' Well ? " reiterated Mr. Bovin.

"There is nothing whatever in it, and Mrs.
Battle has authorized me to contradict such
reports."

Well done," said Mr. Bovin. " I'm unfeignedly
glad to hear it. I am sufficiently
interested in the niece of Sir Golf to wish her
to marry a man, not a charlatan. That 
will come down like a sky-rocket on a
damp night, some day. He is a mountebank
"

Stop a bit," said Mrs. Bovin ; " don't travel
quite so fast."

Mrs. Bovin gave her cap a forward pull ; she
was much pleased with herself. She began to
think she had as good a head as Mr. Bovin ;
but supposing it was so, would he pay her bills
so readily ? As the question was doubtful, it

had better remain so ; for the result of such
knowledge might open the floodgates to combativeness.
And is not placid sympathy
infinitely preferable ? Unquestionably it is.

Mr. Bovin looked up over Lis spectacles at
his wife.

Take care " to a lawyer, and " Don't travel
quite so fast " ; such developments, taking place
after years of uninterrupted sympathy, were
hardly welcome.

Mrs. Bovin, with one eye on the gros grain,
and the other on Mr. Bovin, hastily explained
herself 

I mean that I do not altogether credit
Mrs. Battle's contradiction, because she was so
agitated, and I think such agitation appears to
denote that there has been something  leastways
it hardly denotes nothing."

Miss Beauchamp is placed in a very isolated
position," said Mr. Bovin. " Endowed, I suppose

remember, Mrs. Bovin, I have injected that
insignificant or profoundly significant word supposed,
and therefore carefully guarded the
approach to jealousy "

Mr. Bovin was in high good humour.

*' Endowed, I suppose, with considerable
powers of fascination ; endowed also with 
yes  endowed with considerable personal attractions,
she is placed, as I have said before,
in a very isolated position. She has no gentleman
to represent her. She has shown a decided
will, and a determination to handle her own
affairs, when I attempted to advise her as to
the proper outlay of the considerable sum that
mountebank, for some ends of his own, obtained
by the sale of a supposed Vandyke  for who
is to prove it is a Vandyke ? Why, the entire
collection of a bric--brac hunter turned out
worthless the other day at a grand sale in Paris.
I said just now, regrets have not a legal profile.

In office hours I do not regret that I informed
her she must seek another lawyer ; but when
I am sitting in the position in which I now sit,
I may give way to such regrets."

'leave the affair to me, Mr. Bovin. I
will call on Miss Beauchamp, and arrange
matters  a reconciliation, if you will."

Mr. Bovin threw a crumb from the Panacea
Biscuit at Mrs. Bovin ; it was sportively done,
and hardly became the dignified baldness of
his years ; but perhaps, like the Greeks, he was
always a boy  out of office hours anyhow."

What will you exact as your payment ? "

Oh, nothing," said Mrs. Bovin.

" Come ! come ! That would be hardly fair,"
said he.

Mrs. Bovin helped herself to a peach, and sighed.

Mr. Bovin knew what this meant ; also he
knew, by the depth of the sigh, the amount of
the bill. This was a somewhat heavy sigh.

I hope you don't feel unwell, my dear,"
said he, his eyes gleaming merrily under the
rather hirsute eyebrows.

"Only a little harassed, Mr. Bovin"; and
then the third sigh had come and gone.

Say no more about it, my dear. You shall
have a check tomorrow morning which will
do away with all harassing sensations."

Sign it now' said Mrs. Bovin, looking
down; and he did.

Mrs. Bovin thought that peach the most
luscious peach she had ever tasted, and Mr.
Bovin an incomparable husband. She had
always thought so ; but a judgment becomes
none the less rooted and impregnable for receiving
further demonstration. Mrs. Bovin had no
objection whatever to the constant repetition
of such demonstration.

FLIGHT OR AVOWAL?

1st Gent.  "All times are good to seek your
wedded home,
Bringing a mutual delight''

2nd Gent.  " Why, true :
The calendar hath not an evil day
For souls made one by love, and even death
Were sweetness if it came like rolling waves
While they two clapped each other, and foresaw
No life apart''

While Mr. and Mrs. Bovin were carrying
on their own little conversational tactics, Sir
Blaise and Mr, De Quinceyy were also sitting
and exchanging thoughts on many interesting
topics of this and past days, in the huge

dining-hall where the figures of the two menas
they faced each other from the north and
south of the long table, looked hardly provocative
of intimate discourse.

When the servants had left, Sir Blaise rose
and took a seat close to De Quinceyy. Between
these two had sprung up a perfect understanding.
Sir Blaise felt he could wholly trust his
friend ; and De Quinceyy, whose character was
moulded in sterner lines, found a sense of
relaxation in their intimacy, which rested and
refreshed his spirit.

*'Do you think it would be contrary to
Church discipline that I should take a wife,
De Quinceyy ? " said Sir Blaise, smiling.

De Quinceyy, looking reflectively at Sir
Blaise, did not answer for several minutes.
At last he said :

Miss Beauchamp is singularly attractive.
Whether such attractiveness would draw you

nearer or farther front the purpose of your
life is a question which stretches away over a
long piece of country."

I knew you would connect my remark
with Miss Beauchamp," said Sir Blaise ; " and
you are right. She has affected me differently
to any other living woman. Two courses lie
before me  flight or avowal. I am speaking
unreservedly to you, as my custom is."

* Extreme courses are not, as a rule, the
best," said De Quinceyy, "though there are
circumstances which call for them. Why
should you fly from some, perhaps, good and
precious gift that may be destined for you ?
On the other hand, why should you not
use that temperatures which God has meted
out to you, and curb that desire for rash
speech ? "

I feel," said Sir Blaise, " a great and unreasonable
love for a girl of whom I know

absolutely nothing, except that she is carrying
on a conspicuous career to redeem a heavily
mortgaged estate. I have no desire to hide
my sentiments. I feel like a boy  utterly
simple concerning her. I would give much
to throw myself at her feet and tell her all.

De Quinceyy, love is indeed a mystery. I
do not like Miss Beauchamp's public career.
I detest the knowledge that a hundred lorgnettes
are directed at her I 'would call wife.
But in this matter I feel myself to be urged
impetuously onward. I chafe at the thought
of consideration. 1 love her. Already she
has made herself indispensable to me. I long
to tell her of this love.

If she rejected me, I should 'feel no
bitterness  no rancour. I should know that
a clumsy fellow like myself could hardly
expect such condescension, for it would be
condescension on her part. Miss Beauchamp

is far removed from me  I know it. Wealth
will not atone for this, or position. The
balance could never be correct. I appreciate
her in every fibre of my being, though we
have hardly spoken to each other.

Now, what shall I do ? Shall I hie me to
Beauchamp,' and without further ado, and
without picking and choosing my words, tell
her how she has struck upon me ; and then,
gathering all the eloquence I can together,
try to make her take the same view of the
subject as I do?" Sir Blaise was smiling, but
nervously, for him.

"Tell me," he repeated, 'shall I hie me to
Beauchamp,' or shall I order ' Lurline,' and
ride away  away, a million miles away ? " The
smile had deepened into laughter.

De Quinceyy also laughed. Perhaps there
was reflected sadness in his lauofh, the shadowy
outcome of a shrouded past.

*you are only exemplifying the will-olive
principle of Schopenhauer," said he, dreamily.
"As long as the world endures, so long
will men love, and continue to love. Though
Socrates says, 'Whether we marry or not, we
shall repent it.' "

"I think if Socrates had seen Miss Beauchamp
his philosophies would have taken
another hue," said Sir Blaise. *' There is in
her beauty a reticence which half discloses,
half reveals, the spirit. This is the charm
which awoke me."

I know what you mean," said De Quinceyy.
Not one in a thousand would discover what
you, guided by Love's mystic insight, have
perceived. Half-hidden beauty is unsuspected
by the million, and discovered with great
joy by the few. 'Tis so in every form of
Art also."

"Miss Beauchamp," continued Sir Blaise,

*' lias just such an expression in her eyes as
Hortense di Cantilupe. I'll have that picture
removed from its present position, and placed
in the entrance hall. My mother had a curtain
hung before it ; she said the face was
too full of metaphysical subtlety, and it made
her sad''

When people get into that line of thought,"
said De Quinceyy, "they may as well don the
philosopher's cloak, and live in obscurity.
Such people converse with shadowy forms ;
and flesh and blood are quite too obtrusively
vulgar, after high talk with phantom problems,
which are endowed, too, with such
powers of attraction that they can hold you
indifferent to the crash of Empires while they
flute to you of Phenomena."

I suspect you of temptations in that direction,
De Quinceyy," said Sir Blaise.

'* There lay my temptation," said De

VOL. II. L

Quinceyy ; *but in these days when torpedoes
are being hurled at the Church, one requires
action, not dreams. Thought has run riot ;
it has drunk the cup of freedom till it is like
a horse without bit or bridle. I have, for
some time past, given all my spare hours to
the mastery of logic. I find it a powerful
weapon in dealing with modern thinkers, for
they are mostly badly schooled in logic. We
could beat them off the ground they have taken
up, by mere force of logical reasoning, if a band
of gifted men would give themselves up to the
study of a logical method such as Saint Thomas
A aquinas 

' Fides habet majores certitudinem,
quantum ad imitated adhesions quam sit
certitude scientist vel intellectus, quamvis in
scientia et intellect sit major evident forum
quibus assenting.'

Reason and faith are at present like a

divorced couple in some parts of the Church
militant. Truly it might be said of them 
What God hath joined together, let no man
put asunder Reason is only the handmaid to
Faith. Faith has a supernatural birthright to
mark her superiority."

Thomas is an exaltation of the Pope," said
Sir Blaise. *' How could such a pure reasoner
fall into this error ? "

I can adopt his logical method without
touching the infallibility question," said De
Quinceyy. " Sip the honey out of every doctrine.
A pearl is none the less precious for being
enclosed in a worthless shell."

Assuredly not," said Sir Blaise. And then
both men simultaneously rose, and strolled out
on the terrace.

But their walk up and down was silent, for
Sir Blaise was meditating on Miss Beauchamp,
and wondering if she could return his love ; and

L 2

De Quinceyy was watching the rags of clouds
which were chasing each other  now to meet,
and now to part, and now to meet again  and
musing on destiny.

ABC.

Love his its nature claims the colour of infinity, and therefore
the true measure of its intensity is death."

"Sir Blaise Paxmuue," said Mrs. Battle,
rising from her seat in the dining-room
window, a few days after the conversation
between De Quinceyy and him, which we have
just narrated.

Miss Beauchamp, dear heart, it is Sir
Blaise ! and so beautifully mounted on a
white horse  like Lord Lovel, I declare ! 'Tis
the old ballad over again. Let me smooth
your hair, it's a little bit rough. And, oh !
what of John's hands ? he is such a fright

to open the door ; he was helping Jane to
stow away jam all the morning. Well,
never mind ; race is race, and you are Miss
Beauchamp."

Diana did not look up from the consideration
of Coss and Carducci. " What singers those
Italians are ! " she said ; " 'tis a pity they are
suck pagans'

Sir Blaise is dismounting, Miss Beauchamp,"
continued Mrs. Battle, who was
peeping behind those Venetian curtains Diana
had rescued from the lumber-room. " How
can you care to read about those stupid old
poets when here is a fact to look upon ? Away
with fiction ! "

A fact in flesh tints," said Diana, who still
bent her head over the pages of the ' Edinburgh
Review.'

I know you don't see one line of that
rubbish," said Mrs. Battle ; " nor should I,

if I were in your shoes. E-un up-stairs, and
put on that pretty Venetian gown ; do, dear
heart ! "

Mrs. Battle had left the window, for Sir
Blaise's footstep was heard in the hall.

*' I think I like Coss better than Carducci"'
said Diana, glancing at Mrs. Battle amusedly.
Well, adieu, pour le moment. I dare say Sir
Blaise won't notice my dress."

Trust him for noticing," said Mrs. Battle.

Sir Blaise, like Mr. CantUupe, was standing
at the mantelpiece when Diana entered the
room. Perhaps the natural spot for mankind
is the hearth rug ; anyhow, they instinctively
make for it.

The charm of Sir Blaise, when talking to
women, consisted to a great extent in the grace
of deference  and perhaps no form of court
pleases a woman so much. Some women would
rather receive homage than love. There is a

charm in the former which may be wholly
lacking in the other. You may madly love an
individual, and yet pay no homage ; for homage
may have a dignified element within it, which
is, perhaps, alien to mad love. It is slow of
step, and watchful of eye. There is nothing
discomposing and crumpling in its movements.
Perhaps Sir Blaise could perfectly reconcile the
two elements.

I think we ought to knov/ each other better,"
said he, looking down on Diana with eyes
which strenuously endeavoured to hide a secret.
*' Sir Golf and I were great friends ; many an
hour we spent together discussing salmon, and
the best bait to hook them."

Tm so glad to see you," said Diana simply,
and then they both sat down like two children
mutually pleased with each other.

Whenever the veritable old love story
begins to spell itself out, it begins in

alphabetical form  A, B, C, and so on : this
description of love, adding syllable to syllable
through the years, has the true primitive
caste about it. 'Tis as primitive as Odin's
runes.

I envy you this place," said Sir Blaise ; '' it
is ever so much nicer than Whitefriars. I've
had no finger in the restoration business."

It's a tumbledown old spot," said Diana ;
'but I'm very pleased with it for all that."

"Tell me of your present life," said Sir
Blaise.

The question was abrupt, but the manner and
tone made it endearing.

I'm content, because it's so far successful,"
said Diana.

'but the publicity?" said Sir Blaise.
You are cuttings against nature, I feel
sure."

I don't know," said Diana, colouring

slightly. " There is in publicity some excitement
; I think, when once you have faced a
great crowd of upturned faces, you would
never care to sink into obscurity again. At
first, it was painful to me, very painful ; but,
as I grew conscious of my power, I grew
fond of using it. I have now an absolute
delight in facing an audience, and feeling that
/ am without myself, as it were ; that for
the time being I live in another's joys or
sorrows, and realize the experiences of another
form of mind. Yes," she added simply, " I do
love my Art."

Sir Blaise grew redder under his bronze skin ;
he could not endure that this rose should be on
exhibition.

*' Would you not gladly abandon this particular
field for other and less conspicuous ones ? " he
said abruptly.

Without answering his query, Diana continued

the train of thought he had set in
motion ; for Sir Blaise already seemed to have
asked from her an analysis of her own feelings
concerning her career.

Perhaps, with this sense of power came
ambition,  that eager, restless, striving, never-silent
desire to reach a certain goal. To you,
Sir Blaise, such an ambition must seem narrow ;
perhaps it seems hardly quite so wedded to a
high purpose now to me as it did ; after all, the
sustaining principle of to-day is the phantom food
of tomorrow. Yet, it is well, surely, to have
some one ambition, some one aspiration "

She paused, with her head bent slightly
forward, her hands clapped tightly together,
and her lips parted, as if waiting for some
response from Sir Blaise.

There are ambitions yet more suited to
you," he said ; then he checked himself, and
added 

Were you interested in the few words I
spoke the other evening ? "

I was never so interested before,' said
Diana.

Again Sir Blaise reddened, and his grey eyes
darkened.

I shall be ordained shortly," said he.
I have been such a selfish fellow. I
never thought that all I have I hold intrust.
Now I see everything differently.
I've miles of land : how can I utilize it
so as to benefit the poor 1 Will you help
me?"

It was very foolish, doubtless, but Diana's
eyes grew hazy. Why should this man ask
her help in so great an undertaking ?  She who
had never considered the poor except to thrust
her hand hastily into her pocket, and draw out
a coin, when an importunate cry had entered
into her ears.

You will," said Sir Blaise eagerly. " I
knew you would."

At any rate, I can tliiDk out the question
with you," said Diana ; " but I am so ignorant
of philanthropy."

*' AYe"  Sir Blaise paused on the word "we."
It was a dear little word for the first time.
"AYe might draw out a plan for building
a number of cottages, where delicate children,
the waifs and strays of society, can be
reared."

What a delightful scheme ! " said Diana
enthusiastically.

"We will get our recruits from St. Giles's,"
said Sir Blaise. " I shall be working there
soon ; but I have a few rough sketches of
plans with me ; if you don't like them,'
we can alter them. May I show them to
you ? "

Y'ith alacrity Diana rose, and drew a little

table, gay with a many - coloured Turkish
cloth, towards the sofa where they were
sitting, Sir Blaise rising hastily to help her.
Already they seemed as if they had known each
other long. There was the confidence which
springs from subtle kinship of spirit. Then
they sat down side by side, and fell to
examining the plans.

Each cottage should be presided over by
a matron," said Sir Blaise, " and each child
must have a little garden to trim, and a pet
of some sort to take care of. All this will
civilize the little savages."

When your scheme is in working order may
I visit the cottages ? " said Diana eagerly.

Sir Blaise, looking down on the plans, felt
stirring within him the wild desire to tell out
this love which had over-mastered him  to
fling the reticence of all strangeness away.
Words were thrusting themselves upwards,

words bier with those magical forces which
can change the stale, flat, dry details of an
every-day life into a phantasmagoria of
brilliant surroundings. He longed to possess
his desire now. He declared vehemently within
himself, it would be well he should strive
to possess his desire now, get some response
from Diana. But even in the midst of his
reasonings a restraint loss about him  the
restraint of De Quinceyy's advice.

Neither flight nor avowal ; but wait and see
how matters go.

In the strain that it cost him to curb his
impetuous speech (for Sir Blaise had never been
one to weigh and balance and measure his sentences),
he did not reply ; and Diana now rose
rather hurriedly, and rang for tea. Had he
not liked her proposition ?

Mrs. Battle, entering the room at this
moment, and catching the expression of

Sir Blaise, began to hit about wildly in the
regions of wherefore.

"If it's love, icliij does he look so? 
it's not love, why does he look so ? " She
might have added with Montaigne, Que
sais je ? Ah ! there is wonderful knowledge
in that simple phrase, Que sais je ? The
deepest philosophy can still cry, Que sais je ?
Ignorance may cloak itself with authority, but
wisdom will stand apart and humbly confess
Que sais je ?

'* Look at these delightful plans, Homespun,"
said Diana, drawing Mrs. Battle towards the
table. "What do you think of these model
cottages ? "

Mrs. Battle found her spectacles, and, taking
the plans in her hand, withdrew to the window
to consider them. She continued at the window
an unconscionably long time. She must have
known every separate outline of those several

sketches, though she was hardly taking in their
proportions.

Bid Sir Blaise intend to propose to Miss
Beauchamp ? Had he proposed to Miss Beauchamp
? Surely, there loss some confusion
in the air when she had entered the room ; that
indefinable something which is as impossible
to define as the law of gravitation (not that
Mrs. Battle had gravitated quite so far in her
speculations as this).

Was Sir Blaise, the perfection of manhood,
going to beat about the bush, and drive Mrs.
Battle distracted with alternating hopes and
fears before he did propose ? There was no
need for such beating about the bush, for was
he not enormously wealthy ? What if Miss
Beauchamp's happiness should be endangered ?
Love  worse a million times than a blight among
hops  was a love-cross.

The plans shook in sirs. Battle's square and

VOL. II. H

very fresh-coloured hands. This thought was
distracting. But then Miss Beauchamp, for all
her careless ways, could take very good care
of herself ; she would never allow her heart
to go out to Sir Blaise unless Sir Blaise first
let his heart go out to her, or that both hearts
simultaneously went out in the same direction.


Mrs. Battle's stout wrists resumed their
wonted firmness. Admirably executed drawings
! The waifs and strays would be better
housed than many ladies and gentlemen.

There was no need for fear here. Miss
Beauchamp would surely be Lady Panmure,
and that odious Mr. Cantilupe would be sent to
the righteous  undulating movement and all.
Mrs. Battle commenced to smile, and, smiling
still, moved across the room with the plans, and
placed them on a table, with an emphatic 
'' Ca:pitair'

Meanwhile Sir Blaise had wandered to a harp
which filled a corner of the room.

Do you play ? " said he to Diana.

Without replying, Diana drew the instrument
towards her, and swept the strings into
one wild melody of song. Beneath her touch
the chords seemed to fill the air with a
thousand vibrations  every harmony to which
life beats was here, and every sad minor
wail, too.

Mrs. Battle was accustomed to such melody,
for Diana loved her harp, and not a day passed
but the old Court was filled with the sound of
strings.

Sir Blaise stood in wonderment. Perhaps
he was thinking of the angel who plays so
divinely, that all the other angels gather round
to listen.

Looking up as she replaced the instrument,
Diana met and interpreted that glance ; and

M 2

once more the rivulet went on its course ; but
somehow a deeper tone had mingled in its
music, for Life and Death were harmonizing
with its note.

AM I WICKEDLY AMBITIOUS ?
Obstinate questionings of self and outward things'

Mr. de Quinceyy had left Whitefriars. He
had several visits to pay before starting for
Australia, and Sir Blaise was entirely alone.
In a short time he would go up to Oxford ;
meantime, he would read at Whitefriars ; if
the proximity to Diana had anything to do
with the decision, it was only natural.

The plans for the cottages gave a very sufficient
reason for frequent calls, and Diana
looked for his visits with an ever-increasing
delight.

Intellectual wooing was much less disjointed

and broken than the primitive utterances of
Odin's runes. Sometimes Sir Blaise and
Diana would sit silent for many minutes ;
but it was a silence which poets call
"golden."

On one of these afternoons, Diana was
embroidering a spray of passion-flowers on
a tawny-coloured velvet, and Sir Blaise was
watching its creation reflectively. They had
been discussing faiths and faiths, and creeds
and creeds.

I think, when we Christians really stretch
out our hands towards God," he said, breaking
a long silence, " we have to become as simple
and childlike as the world was in ancient days.
I think, at no distant date, this weary and
sceptical old world will return to its childhood,
and babble of truth and eternity. There
seems to me to be one law for man and
Nature."

Is it a sceptical world ? " said Diana. " How-crowded
our churches are ! "

*' Scepticism has a thousand faces," said Sir
Bhiise ; "it makes itself very comfortable iu
many a well-cushioned pew. You know St.
Chrysostom's saying, ' the true Shechina,h is
man.' One needs some illumination to believe
it. Yet it is so. The Novalis expresses himself
hardly less finely  ' There is but one temple in
the universe, and that is the body of man.' "

I should like to string such sentences
about me," said Diana. " Anything that adds
dignity to our race  that exalts it  I hold as
so precious ; for when we look out on the baseness
and meanness and smallness of mankind, in
despair almost one turns round and cries out for
some garment to twist about the race to beautify
its shabbiness'

You are not inclined to hero-worship ? " said
Sir Blaise.

*the splendid exceptions in our race do
really predispose me towards that species of
worship," said Diana ; " but I only care to
approach these master-minds in their writings.
I would not know them ; the spots on the sun
would vex me. Take Carlyle's ' Reminiscences.'
How I delighted in that man till I read those
petty personalities ! "

"Directly we become personal, we become
petty," said Sir Blaise. " You see even culture
won't prevent pettiness."

"The true Shechinah is man," said Diana,
and the human race the miracle of miracles.
I am working out this mystery, and gathering
up the ends of my theological belief through
you. Sir Blaise."

Through me ! " said Sir Blaise. " You are
determined to humble me."

But I do understand better that ' the true
Shechinah is man ' when I think of what you

said at Whitefriars on that evening not long
ago," said Diana, half to herself.

All their talk was of this description, doubtless
very misty to people who claim to be
matter-of-fact concerning all things in heaven
and earth, and whose religion is so very sacred
that they can never speak of it ; or so very
plain-sailing a matter that it is needless to
waste precious time over such practical and
simple matters as a future state, and our insignificant
departure from one resting-place to
another ; and who deliberately misinterpret all
such talk into some wild conception of profanity
or irreverence.

One day Sir Blaise asked Diana if she still
intended, at all costs, to continue her recitations.

For two years  two little years  I have
bound myself," she said hastily.

'' But if some one else freed your property,
would this not please you as well ? "

All the devotion of his manhood was gathered
in his face as he spoke.

Are there not moments on which a destiny
hangs, and that destiny seems placed in human
hands, or left to human lips to answer  these
clumsy human hands and faltering human lips
which make such havoc of their powers ?

Long; after Diana wondered  reading; that
question with the instinctively of love  at the
calculating reply she was able to give  at the
pride and ambition which swayed her.

** Two years  two little years ; and no one
but myself could I permit to free the estate.
A Utopian dreams has become almost a fact.
Ah ! it will be a grand day when Beauchamp
gets from under the heel of the Jew.
What arches I will have, and festoons ! For
centuries we Beauchamps have been of no
account. There was a time of sowing, I suppose
; all I have known is the reaping.

Perhaps I am proud, yet my pride almost
seems a righteous sort of pride. I must see
Beauchamp an unencumbered estate once
more. Do you know, I would not let a great
love turn me from my enterprise. Yes, I
could thrust myself aside to reach this goal,

and then "

"Then, what?" said Sir Blaise. He had
risen, and was regarding: Diana with visible

emotion. " Then " but he did not wait

for the answer ; he had caught Diana s hand,
and held it like a vice. " Then I may tell you
all."

TIME.

Dare you aicait the event of a felo minutes' deliberation ?"

'' What news, Diego ? "

Mr. Cantilupe was pacing up and down his
library. Diego had just returned from Herefordshire,
where he had been carrying on his
observations, by fair and foul means, of the
movements of Diana.

' Sir Blaise Panmure is in constant attendance
on Miss Beauchamp," said Diego, whose
small eyes roamed restlessly round the room,
as if in search of something.

Anything further ? " said Mr. Cantilupe,

pausing in his walk to sweep Diego's countenance
with one comprehensive glance.

Miss Beauchamp goes tomorrow on a
visit to Lady Masters, and Sir Blaise goes to
Oxford."

You have fulfilled your duties, as usual, to
my entire satisfaction, Diego, and 3'ou will
receive your reward in the way you like best 
gold. Tills is a love game, Diego ; you have
never been so employed before. It is not a
simple affair ; but with all your philosophy,
can you aver that life itself is a simple
affair ? "

Mr. Cantilupe was smiling his worst smile,
a mere spasmodic movement of the lip, and a
slight display of teeth.

Diego did not smile in return ; he was
thinking how many more golden coins he
would have to caress that night. ' He was
thinking of the precious "pieces," and wondering

what a man should want with wife, or
child, or creature-love, when he can have the
handling of something which the dust-bin
cannot devour.

Mr. Cantilupe, regarding him as he stood
there, remembered that the eagerness of desire
was upon him. So he went to the cabinet at
the end of the room, and touching the spring
of a secret drawer, drew a heap of sovereigns
therefrom, and thrust them into Diego's extended
hands.

With a guttural chuckle, and the gleam of
that strange light which avarice evokes, Diego
withdrew from the room. The pieces ! the
pieces ! the hard metallic stare of them was
dearer to Diego than aught on earth. He
kept that stare bright with much cleaning, for,
once stowed away in the various odd receptacles
to which he apportioned them, they never
saw bank or mart.

Let them increase and multiply,, like the
bulbs of a plant," be would chuckle to himself
as he handled them two and three times
in the day, with locked door and curtained
window. " Put them out to nurse, and I might
wake up childless one morning ; besides, what
would I do without them ? what would I
have to play with ? These pretty toys, that
can distance all the world, are they not
worth the keeping  the pieces, too, that always
minor out the same note ? Ah ! o-ive me the
pieces." It was thus Diego constantly apostrophized
his gods.

Mr. Cantilupe, as he continued his restless
pacing, communed with himself in broken
sentences,  " Two years to play out my love
game  two years to separate a pair of turtle-doves.
Diana rose to my bait, her master
passion is the redemption of that Court  pride
and ambition. Miss Beauchamp's only flaws.

She will inform Panmure of her decision, and

he will wait ; and while he waits  Ha ! Ha ! "

Mephistopheles might laugh as Mr. Cantilupe

laughed. Time  what will not time do ? It

will mellow the corn and rot the fairest fruit ;

it is a paradoxical force, it completes and

destroys.

Tout vient a ceux qui savent attendre  good

and evil. Time holds death and life in its

grip, which will it shuffle out here ?

 If a Panmure lived to a Beaucliamp he,
The White Lady then to her rest loilljfee."

"No rest for the White Lady will there befor
a Panmure to a Beauchamp will never be
wed as long as the Duce di Cantilupe is an
inhabitant of this upper region. If Diana is
not to be my wife, she may follow in the footsteps
of Diana of the bow and arrow ; for the
bride of another she shall never be ! Come,
Time, and seal the bargain."

Mr. Cantilupe's hands waved the air ; the
role of Mystic, which he had so long played,
had become second nature ; to act had become
as natural as to breathe.

No stilettos or foul deeds, if we can avoid
such means ; rather a slow and stealthy
march, by insinuating means ; rather here
a little and there a little, till the love that
is sits and mocks the love that was. One
need not be a knave to separate a pair of
lovers. Sometimes something less pronounced
will do as well ; the babble of a child, or the
interference of a coxcomb.

She is caught by the vesture of this man 
the * grand air ' of a Panmure. I read him ashe
passed me the other day on the road ; the
old ' man and the ' new.' What would Fichte
have said to him, with his transcendental
philosophies % "

Mr. Cantilupe's inward sneer was so deeply

VOL. II. N

engraved, that it was impossible but that it
should occasionally show outwardly. His
cynicism was, however, carefully veiled; it
had never budded into profligacy. Mr. Cantus
was not going to forget his supremacy
over men and matters for the sake of a sneer ;
for your cynic, what is he but a world-weary
philosopher, who has tasted those grapes which
the sun forgot to kiss ? The world believes in
its vineyards yet, and would rather listen to
the preachers of good things. Miserable
philosophers have their disciples ; but their
workshops are not crowded.

What though Mr. Cantilupe held that
human nature was rotten to the core, that
faith and truth were empty words, and love a
mere madness ? to which, alas ! he had fallen a
prey. Let the world believe in faith, and truth
and love, because it is better for its moral
health it should. He had even continued in the

faith of the Romish Church, which faith had
been entailed upon him ; for are not our faiths
more heavily entailed upon us than our estates ?
He even felt some measure of sympathy with
that Church. The more superstitious you keep
the masses, the more easily will you work
upon them ; flood them in the exquisite allurement
of sight and sound, and terrify them with
the Confessional and excommunicating Bulls.
Then, with regard to the cultivated sections,
if you desire a really high flight in the ozone

of ethics, I commend you to Cardinal M

and Monsignor C . These men breakdown

the barrier between music and language ;
they can discourse with the elegance of a
Christianized Plato.

Such were the beliefs of Mr. Cantilupe ;
but he had broken away from his meditations,
and commenced to mark certain passages
in the ' Divina Commedia,' which Diana

N 2

purposed reciting in the Autumn ; and he
cunningly inserted a running commentary on
some of the finest passages ; pitting Dante
against Shakespeare, and placing them in an
intellectual arena, to display their prowess and
see who would lay down his arms first.

Mr. Cantilupe knew this blackening of
great men together was peculiarly interesting
to Diana ; he knew, in thought, he called her
to his side to listen. And so far he was right.

Trundling along the country roads on her
way to visit the Masters', Diana gladly turned
her eyes away from the distressing poke the
driver of the fly had obtained, to the consideration
of those brilliant comments of Mr.
Cantilupe's which were scribbled on every
available margin in the divine Commedia.'

COUNTY SOCIETY.
Words hove a great force, this way and that way."

There is something so complete in English
life, if you are not hopelessly difficult to
please. You must surely own that, for all-round
comfort and the harmony of surroundings,
English life (among the Jeunesse Donee at
least) is unrivalled ; but this completeness has
another aspect : for those whose pockets are
empty it is a walled-round completeness.
Better the gay skies of Italy for such, for
there your wants are few and easily satisfied ;
you are so filled other ways. Like Cato, you
can throw the luscious figs, which grow for

everybody, from beneath your mantle, and say,
"Here is my excuse for turning my back on
England, which shows but a churl's brow to
the poor'*

The Masters' home had this all-round completeness.
Lady Masters had lost her husband
early in their married life. The blow had
struck her but lightly, for she had no
tenacious heart-roots ; or, perhaps, the roots
lacked soil ; anyhow, the plucking up of a tie
was like the plucking up of* a weed. She was
an amiable, docile woman, a little timid about
public opinion, and a little anxious for a good
settlement for Francisca and Cecilia ; but
should such settlements not accrue, there
would be no biting disappointment.

Very happily constituted was she, for the
friction of life could emit no danger sparks. She
had followed public opinion in the matter of
Miss Beauchamp. The elite of London society

had gone mad about her ; if Francisca went
mad about her  well, she was only following in
the footsteps of other social magnets. Lady
Masters had written the sweetest of invitations
to Diana, to spend a few days at Dene Close,
and Diana had accepted ; tor since the departure
of Sir Blaise to Oxford she had found
less pleasure in her solitariness.

"You are rather late," said Francisca,
as she greeted Diana ; ." the dressing gong
has sounded a quarter of an hour. I will
escort you to your room, and Marcia will
make your toilette. You do not go in for
maids ? "

Nor any other luxuries," said Diana ; ** I
am independent of all Marcia."

"Well, Marcia is no artiste, I must allow'*
said Francisca ; " she could no more arrange a
toilette like you can, than 1 could ; she turns
us all out alike. We have a number of people

staying here  a humdrum, toujours perdrix, lot
all save Felicia and Languedoc.

By-the-bye, mamma has yielded about Cely
and Languedoc, and they are to be married.
He has written a poem on his bliss, and it's so
transcendental that it might have emanated
from some poet in a planet. Languedoc is
more than a rising man ; his last book has
created quite a furore. He has been massacred
and calendar at the same moment, and
during the process he has been quietly gathering
up the ducats, and marriage is more than
permissible. The covey of partridges are looking
considerably startled ; Languedoc's poetical
firings are quite too much for them.

Felicia and I are intensely amused at the
matter-of-facts' round stare. Good gracious !
what a daring and button-holing race wx
Saxoners are. Well, well, I must be off to
my philosophy of clothes. Carlyle thought

he made something out of the subject, buta
future race will doubtless find out what
he was shooting at. I really don't think it
was the French Revolution ; do you ? But we
can but appreciate according to our intellect.
I hear Originality can only be appreciated by
the original, Wit by the witty, Art by the
artistic.

Now I am oroino; to make a scramble
toilette. I'm exactly like a wayside spout
which adorns the roadside near here. Whenever
I pass by, I think there is Francisca
Masters materialized ; it pours on and on in a
melancholy drip, drip, as much as to say, Tve
no audience, no audience ! ' Then, when it
gets a watering-cart as a listener, you should
just hear the torrent that rushes forth  pour,
pour, pour. I'm the spout, and you are
the watering-cart. What dependent creatures
we are after all ; none can say to the

other, / dont need you. Well, au revoir  I'm
off."

Are you ready ? " said Francisca, shortly
after, as she stood at Diana's door in a dress
strewn with roses.

Diana was leaning out of the window, her
arms clasped across the sill, and one hand full
of the starry clematis which was trailing
everywhere in wild luxuriance. Her head
was bent over the blossoms as if they held a
secret. But do they not ?

More like the White Lady than ever
to-night," said Francisca ; " you look spiritualized.
Of what are you thinking ? But that's
a clumsy question."

I am thinking how God makes everything
both for beauty and for use," said Diana.
"Then from this thought another took shape 
how God was in all that wonderful Greek Art ;
how He must be in all that is beautiful''

What would the matter of facts say to such
talk before dinner ? " said Francisca. " Would
they consider it good for our digestions ? Mrs.
Boosy is great on this subject. You will see
her in a few minutes. She really ought to go
through a course of sestheticism."

Even the aesthetics must confess, Homo
sum ; humani nihil a me alienum puto' said
Diana laughing.

Good gracious ! " said Francisca, '* I never
came across that quotation ; but for the desolate
appearance of Whitefriars, now Sir Blaise
is away, I would look it up. We have no
books worth reading.  ' My Grandfather's
Tales,' and so on." Then Francisca caught
Diana's hand, and they descended to the
drawing-room.

Lady Masters was sitting on a sofa, with
Mrs. Boosy on one side and Lady Ashburnham
on the other.

Mrs. Boosy was Lady Ashburnliam's daughter,
and she had married a leading physician, because
he was the only man who understood her tiresome
constitution ; so, as she said,

Better marry him at once, and so escape the
fees " ; and Lady Ashburnham, being very poor
and Scotch, said, " There is wisdom, Maggie, in
your remark ; better so."

After greeting Diana with much languid
cordiality, and introducing her to some of her
guests. Lady Masters returned to her friends
on the sofa. Mrs. Boosy was making an almost
inarticulate little grunting noise  she so very
much disliked anybody or anything out-of-the-way
; and Miss Beauchamp was very
much out-of-the-way. Some people do stand
out like special creations. There is less of the
animal (we won't say monkey, for it's a great
mistake to limit the race in that direction)
and more of the spiritual about them.

You have forgotten your fan, Mrs. Boosy ;
let me give you one," said Lady Masters kindly,
thinking those small grunting were caused by
the sultry evening.

*' I never carry a fan  too much trouble,"
said Mrs. Boosy. " Tfy, Lady Masters, do
some people look so different to others  so
unpractical ? "

I don't know," said Lady Masters, smiling ;
for she saw the direction in which Mrs. Boosy
was aiming.

I don't suppose any sensible man would
look that way," continued Mrs. Boosy.

I don't know," said Lady Masters, still
smiling.

Lady Ashburnham meantime was silently
arranging her lips into problems : she was
wiser than her daughter. At last the problem
came to birth and broke out in broad
Scotch ; for no amount of clipping and pruning

could prevent those rolling R's and striking
rationalism.

"Men, men, men are we ether Q,OQk. They
turn about and twist about with every wind
that blows. Sensible men go daft with love, and
it's impossible to say what direction love may
take."

Mrs. Boosy grunted again  Lady Ashburnham
should really subdue her accent ; it had worried
poor Sir Frederick terribly  killed him in the
end, she believed.

There is much purpose in the face," said
Lady Ashburnham, breaking out again, "much
forcihility ; but the dress is too out of the
ordinary for me."

Men don't like that sort of thing," said
Mrs. Boosy ; "at least, I'm sure Mr. Boosy
does not." As this was likely enough. Lady
Ashburnham's lips again took the form of a
problem, and only the "annie" light in her

eyes showed that she did not accredit all men
with the same taste as Mr. Boosy.

As long as I am neat, Mr. Boosy is perfectly
satisfied," continued Mrs. Boosy. "He
demands nothing more. I am neat. I don't
attempt to look like a picture. I consider anybody
lacking in common sense who looks like
a picture, and I'm quite sure men dont admire
that sort of thing."

"Ay, Maggie," said Lady Ashburnham,
*' men are queer creatures. The more, my
dear lambie, you see of life the more will you
become convinced of the truth of this statement
 women don't know their own husbands,
poor things, half their time, how should they ?
nor do men often understand their wives.
If we each of us could read what was in the
heart of the other, I verily believe there would
be but little calling of banns in the churches.
At any rate, our flemings and feathering

would hardly be so satisfactorily carried on, I
take it."

Lady Masters sat silent and smiling. This
northern shrewdness amused her.

Mrs. Boosy gave another inaudible little grunt,
" Lovely women are provocative people. You
must pick them to pieces, and then put them
together again, and all this is so very exhausting
; and, all said and done, they look as lovely
as ever."

Mrs. Boosy grew very cross, and commenced
a long story of the offers she had before she
accepted Mr. Boosy ; ending up with, * I think
it must have all been because I am so neat."
And then the sotto voce relating of the old
loves acted like a narcotic on Mrs. Boosy 's
original and sinful yielding to cruel jealousy,
and the little grunting had become little
*cooing," as she described the hardheartedness
of Sir Frederick, her father, as he had

nipped this opening bud and that ; and how,
at last, she had yielded to the persuasive
wooing of Mr. Boosy, who, like all pet
physicians, seemed to know how to regulate
the heart-pulse as well as the other pulse or
pulses.

Mutual advantages," she went on to explain.
*' I had the position ; he the money. And, after
all, to keep men at all in their place, we must
have something "

Beyond neatness' Lady Masters said ; and
then drew herself up with a little gentle horror
at being surprised into a sarcasm  which was
alien to her.

'' Is not Miss Beauchamp lovely ? " said
Cecilia to Mr. Languedoc, who now sat in
triumphant ownership in his favourite attitude
at her feet.

** Sweet innocent," he murmured, "how can
I have eyes for any other than you % "

VOL. II. o

Would you say so some years hence ? " said
Cecilia pensively.

Will the same waves break on the same
shore, some years hence ? My Cecilia, there
is just such a changeless monotony in my
love."

'' Monotony I " said Cecilia ; " monotony ! "

"Now for a lovers' quarrel," said Mr.
Languedoc delightedly. "My lady frowns;
my lady pouts ; consolations await me in the
making up. Monotony, Cecilia, is the soul of
true joy. Will that do ? "

"That's better," said Cecilia, still pouting a
little.

Monotony is the order of creation, and a
love that is worth having will have for its
foundation monotony. Now, is that better ? "

"Worse and worse," said Cecilia. "I won't
marry you ! "

Mr. Languedoc now raised his eyes, and

looked so submissively devoted, and so devotedly
submissive, that Cecilia lost that ]Out in a
smile.

Felicia Novello took possession of Diana as
soon as she entered the room.

*' It's usual to feel rather woebegone when

o

in the vicinity of lovers, is it not ? " she said, as
she sat down with that air of entire approve
nation with which she lent herself to the
examination of species. " I am vivisecting the
pair before us  the poet, who is mellowing into
matrimony ; and the pre-Eaphaelite Cecilia, who
is the first cause of the mellowing process. Miss
Beauchamp, shall you ever condescend to such
foibles ? "

I should be sorry to say where my condescension
may begin or end. Is not destiny
painted deaf?" said Diana.

How dreadful it would be if we were not
partially blind as well as deaf ? " said Francisca.

O 2

For if the certain end of all beginnings
could be seen, what helpless limpets we should
become I "

If we would escape mental pain, we had
better forego love' said Felicia. "I am now
speaking of the higher natures ; to such
natures, love and pain are exquisitely connected.
I could prove it, but I won't ; for a
proof is an argument against an existing fact."

You shall write the love-scenes in our book,
Felicia," said Francisca.

"I've my heroine already,' said Felicia,
*' and I am watching her with sublime interest.
I seem to see the meshes enclosing about her,
and the Fates spinning their webs deftly.
Some people have destiny written on their
brow, a kind of foregone conclusion. Some
people don't look heroic enough for a destiny,
though of course we all have our round and
finish.

Back to our ' sweet lovers ' again, how will
it go with them? I saw Cecilia pout just now.
Love-making, however much it endeavours to
hide its divine traits, has always an interested
audience watching the byplay. When Cecilia
pouted, Mr. Languedoc beamed like a million
suns. What of the phenomena ? Why did that
pout provoke sunshine ? Let us look into this
matter."

Why, of course he saw how much she loved
him when she pouted  wily old fox I " said
Francisca.

Oh," said Felicia, puckering up her level
brows in amused perplexity, "some old law
is at work here. Extremes meeting, and acting
and reaction, and fertilizing into irradiations
from solar systems."

I need not say site will write all the
scientific bits," said Francisca. *' Good
gracious ; won't the critics cut us up, and the

public, with tender sympathy, join our fractured
members together, and send us on our way 
skipping !

Miss Beauchamp, you are to be taken in to
dinner by a gentleman of some weight and
standing ; here he comes, sidling towards you 
brass buttons and blue swallow tails ; rather
'by-gone,' but he is very much avoir dunois

Diana accepted Squire Musgrave's arm with
pleasure, for she remembered having noticed
him at Whitefriars on the evening of the
"At Home," and she hoped he might speak of
Sir Blaise.

Silently emphasizing disapproval of those
endless entrees, Mr. Musgrave did at last open
fire, and his first words happened to be of Sir
Blaise.

Fine fellow my friend Panmure ! Do you
know that he is setting up a village home on
his estate?  a fine fellow. Ashen religion

turns a man's pockets about, I call that
practical demonstration ; I call that Faith,
Hope, Charity, and any other virtue you may
like to tack on."

Diana turned such a delighted face upon
Mr. Musgrave, that he felt sure his reputation
for fascinating the ladies had by no means
declined.

Of course, you know Sir Blaise," he continued
; " he is a popular fellow."

Yes, I know him," said Diana.

'the village homes are commenced. I saw
the woodcutters busy clearing away timber
to-day. Those old trees are dear to Panmure ;
but he is going to rear another description of
tree. Won't these sickly saplings bless him
through the ages ! for a good deed multiplies
like the spawn in a river.

Next thing Panmure must do is to introduce
a Lady Panmure amongst us. I saw him before

he went up to Oxford, and more than hinted
his duty as a landlord. I said, ' The common
custom and use of life will have it so ; you must
be guided by example, not choice Upon my
word, he coloured like a schoolboy, and laughed
most heartily. I began to question whether
there was a lady in the case ; he is so changed.
Though, now, I hardly know whether we could
suit him about here. What is that about the
unbelieving wife, in St. Paul ? But that is
different eh ? "

She need not be a heathen," said Diana.

It's a difficult question," said Mr. Mus-grave.
'' A pull-back in the shape of a Lady
Panmure would be a real pity. I don't
suppose he will hunt, as a parson. Kingsley
did you know ? Are you an admirer of
Kingsley ? "

Diana's expression deepened like a landscape
which gathers more thought as the tone of

the clouds and the lengthening shadows give
intensity to its form.

'' I think he is one of the most sympathetic
characters I have ever read of, and his
imagination is as exuberant as Nature herself.
There can be no genius without imagination.
Kingsley has genius."

He is dead, you know," said Squire Mus-grave
surprised.

He lives in his works," said Diana. " He
is not dead to me. Neither is Emerson nor
Longfellow, nor any great prose poet or singer,
dead to me ; the test of them is living."

Mr. Musgrave looked a little confused, and
cleared his throat, and said " Ahem ! " and
then tried the tone of his sherry, and said
Ahem ! " aojain. If in discoursing on Sir

o o

Blaise he had drifted out of his usual currents,
he was still only held up in such currents by
a description of Boston's belt; he was nervous

and no expert, and was inclined to keep other
swimmers at bay. This young lady would
have him, out of all human aid, on the limitless
ocean of speculation before long, and
after all he was a matter-of-fact old gentleman
in a blue swallow-tail and brass buttons,
nothing more.

What do you think of our neighbourhood ? "
he said. " To my mind, Herefordshire is the
pick of counties."

*' I think it is the pick of counties," said
Diana.

*' The harvest this year has been exceptionally
good. My harvest home is coming
off next week, rather later than we have it
usually ; but the dancers will shuffle up and
down the middle none the worse for that.
AVill you do me the honour to come, Miss
Beauchamp ? I'm an old bachelor, as you
can doubtless perceive, so I have no lady to

express my desires. You will probably say,
Why should I attack Sir Blaise when I have
carefully avoided my own duty as a landlord ?
But I'm an old gentleman with a history  a
history which, like old vintage, is none the
worse for keeping. AYe all have our histories.
You will have yours in time."

Then Squire Musgrave laughed crisply ; he
had taken the most distinguished-looking lady
of the whole party in to dinner, and it was
only fitting that he should show his cheerful
appreciation of kind fortune.

Felicia Novello, who had run out the adolescent
youth whose budding moustache and
small smile had commenced to pall upon her,
now turned a listening ear to the stentorian
utterances of Mr. Musgrave on her other side,
and joined in, to the complete extinction of
the budding hopes to which adolescence is
equal as well as maturity.

Mr. Musgrave has a history," said she, as
she assumed the puzzled air which was one
expression of her individuality ; " I have seen
nothing historic about you. Now, I shall
look for the Ivy  cruel, beautiful Ivy, that
destroys as it decorates. Tell us of the Ivy.
Who was she ? Miss Beau champ and I will
protect you from all comments, if emotion
overpowers you."

But Squire Musgrave gave his white waistcoat
a pull down, ?vnd then leant back somewhat
heavily in his chair, and showed a very
stout defence.

Don't you think," said Felicia, glancing
slily across at Diana (the long sweep of her
eyelashes rendered such a glance inexpressibly
comic), " that the English owe something
of their constitutional attitude to climacteric
influences ? "

I have had as yet very little opportunity

of judging of the constitutional attitude," said
Diana.

"You are a naturalized Italian," said
Felicia. "Now, / am just the most horrible
mixture that can be  half Irish and half
Scotch. What with the pigs and the thistles,
I am a very afflicted member of society, I
assure you."

The Irish," said Mr. Musgrave sententiously,
*' are thorns and pricks in our side. It's
said the Celts crave a king. I would not
care to be an Irish landlord. Our friend.
Sir Blaise, has considerable properties over
there. Whenever he visits them, I'm glad to
see him back. One never knows who they
will 'pellet' next."

At this moment there was a general move,
and if Squire Musgrave's joking words had
caused a tightening of Diana's heart-strings,
nobody was the wiser.

How many strings have snapped, or are
false in the myriad human harps ? How many
can respond to the human touch with one
complete chord ? Oh ! mended strings, and
lost strings, and false strings, and dumb
strings, no wonder the old instrument must
be replaced by one strung on fairer shores
before we can find a seraph's note to mingle
with earth's discordancies.

Sing something, Diana," said Francisca,
as silence fell in the drawing-room after an
intermittent and random volley of small-talk.
You will remind the gentlemen below the
gangway that we are in existence. It's surprising
how soon they forget all about us.
We are getting to a stage of dreamy consciousness,
like vegetables. Some of us lead
a vegetable existence. Take Mrs. Boosy, for
instance. Do you think she is more vegetable
than matter ? "

Francisca had drawn Diana into the conservatory,
which was in reality a large glass
room crowned with lounges and plants and
birds.

*' I think she has the fly-catching and fly
devouring power of the Dionysia. Human
beings are a very interesting study."

I would rather study a tree," said Diana ;
I really would. ' Planted in the earth,
bathed by the air, tended by the sun '  to
what perfection it grows ! Do we attain such
perfection ? "

Diana, I will tell you what you are  you
are, ' cas rastbose ursach either!  Go and sing."

QUESTION DE Jour.

All moods may he safely tried, and their loeiglit allowed to
all objections ; the moral sentiment as easily outweighs them
all as any one"

We are going to have a pic-nic to-days'
said Francisca, the following morning, to
Felicia and Diana, as they all three stood at
the open casement which led on to the lawn
from the dining-room. " A pic-nic is a self-imposed
affliction, and therefore comfortably
tolerated. Won't Dionysia enjoy herself, lacking
condiments ! for of course, to carry on the
torture successfully, we must leave heaps of
things behind."

Where are we going ? " said Diana.

Question de jour  where?" said Francisca.

I have thought of Whitefriars ; you see
it's one of the most interesting places about
here, for the ancient chapel is intact, and
most of our guests are from London  Mrs.
Boosy and Lady Ashburnham and Mr. Thynne
anyhow ; Colonel Trelawny and Major
Clintock from Aldershot. Herefordshire is
new to them all, I believe ; even Languedoc
has seen nothing but Cecilia during his prowls
down here."

He won't see much more now," said Felicia.
*' He is not married yet."

petticoated cynic, where have you picked
up your philosophies?" said Francisca; "you
are a female Montaigne."

I have not sat under the shadow of Igdrasil

without making observations," said Felicia.

How shall we arrange the party ? " said
VOL. n. P

Francisca ; " our military must be divided.
Though they really do better together, the
one sets off the other. I call them Castor and
Pollux. Suppose you take Castor, Felicia, and
Diana take Pollux, and I'll take the adolescent
youth Thynne, and the three dowagers
can drive together, happily and bodily. As
for poor Cely and Languedoc, we will put
them into an outlandish old curricle which
has been handed down to us Masters asa
washed-up tribute of respect from the
Flood ; they wont * notice how the wheels
creak."

Let me drive with the dowagers," said
Diana ; '* I feel so stupid to-day."

** The very reason why Colonel Trelawny will
be charmed with you. He will haw-haw, and
you can wee wee  that's all we need say or do,
to vote each other perfectly charming."

Soon after the party were ready to start, and

Colonel Trelawny found time to whisper to his
inseparable friend.

"What on earth shall I talk about to The
Beauchamp ?  she is out of my beat."

I commend you to the weather' said
Clintock ; ' there are the American storms,
the tidal wave ; then get on to yachting and
Southsea, where we spent half our long leave ;
compare Southsea girls with other girls, incline
your head gracefully, and look powder and
shot. Now I think that's vettj good advice
from a junior officer."

My dear fellow, you are twice as knowing
as I am," said Trelawny despairingly. *' If
The Beauchamp commences a recitation, ten
to one if I know who she is quoting."

Say  * Ah ! what a clever fellow /le was.'
All the authors of any note have been men.
So that's safe."

I quite forgot to mention that Miss

P 2

Edwards, familiarly known as Pectoris Universal,
is coming," said Francisca, running upto
Felicia with mock consternation. " She must
go on the car with you and Major Clintock.
She is certain to study her toes, and so you
will leave her by the roadside."

** Won't you come with us ? " said Clintock,
insinuatingly.

Not I," said Francisca. " I'm going to
study Mr. Thynne. I want to put him in our
book. He runs on ordinary lines, and will
therefore please some of our readers. Felicia
will look into you."

"I shan't come," said Clintock, colouring
furiously. " This is the first time I have heard
of this book."

*' It won't be the last," said Francisca.
Felicia and I are the oncoming fry. We
shall measure our successes by our reverses,
and advertise our book by quoting all the

dreadful comments that are made upon
us."

At this moment Miss Edwards appeared,
neatly arrayed to correspond with the fall of
the leaf, wearing a pair of field-glasses king
across her shoulders, carrying a waterproof
over, one arm, an umbrella hanging by a ribbon
on the other arm, and a small camp-stool,
which contained an entire apparatus within its
compact little seat.

* Did I not say pic-nics are a species of
screw-rack ? " said Francisca, as she retired to
take possession of Mr. Thereafter

about an hour's ride, the whole party
found themselves in the grounds of White-friars,
which, in the mellow light of autumn,
seemed to invite speculations with many
a minor query wrapped in their shadowy
garments.

Diana's moods always took the colour of

Nature's  the very gaiety of the party oppressed
her. Colonel Trelawny found it difficult to
believe that this was the impassioned Miss
Beauchamp, of Cosmos Hall, who could sway
her audience as she would, to tears or laughter.
But are we not a Trinity ? and the three
creatures which make a whole often put on a
thousand disguises.

The first thing to do when pic-nicing is to
eat," said Francisca. " There is exhilaration
in the process. We all hope to add to our
dignity thereby, for fat and dignity go hand
in hand, according to Cetewayo/'

The derivation of the word pic-nic," commenced
Miss Edwards, screwing up her eyes,
and stammering with haste, " springs from "

Scraps," said Francisca. " Let us pitch
our tent."

*' Surely you are not thinking of luncheon
yet ? " said Languedoc. " Let us go and look

at the sunflowers aud hollyhocks in the gardens.
The sunflower's eye  what a velvety
glance !  and the surrounding nimbus,"

*' You will enjoy the sunflowers twice as
much after luncheon," said Francisca, as she
merrily commenced to help the servants unpack
the various baskets. " You may despise matter,
and treat your body like a weed, but I shall
not follow on in your school. As for sunflowers,
one may look at them till one carries,
their reflection,"

Mr. Languedoc smilingly regarded his
Cecilia, who, in turn, smilingly regarded
him ! Poor prosy-feeding mortals, let them
be!

Mrs. Boosy had grunted approval of Francisca's
promptitude with regard to luncheon.
She was sitting on a tiger skin, with her
back resting against the huge belt of an oak.
She thought absorption was the aim of life.

She was conscious of a vacuum, and held that
a vacuum required instant replenishment  as
hunger degenerates into an absolute turning
aside from food, if kept too long waiting,

Now, Miss Edwards, your camp-stool can
be utilized," said Francisca. " Mr. Languedoc,
our poet, has a right to be elevated a few
inches above us. When ' the stroke of action
has ceased' and Hie pause for reflection has
set in,' he will educate our gross and vulgar
souls ; he will translate our dreams, and show
us how to reconcile poetry with the appearance
of ourselves and our world ; and will
show us the superiority of intellect over
Nature. Poets must see two sides in everything
 we only see one, luncheon."

Major Clintock managed, by a strategical
movement, to secure a seat next Francisca.
Her rattle exhilarated him like the rattle of
the regimental drum. He wished he was

under orders for Egypt  a little sympathy in
that direction would be pleasant enough.

"Are you determined," said Francisca, regarding
him as he sat down beside her, "to
be handed down to posterity in my three-volume
work ? Remember, I'm a classic, and
there is no fear of classics ever getting out
of print."

Quite determined," said Clintock, looking
across at Trelawny.

'NTj well," said Francisca resignedly, " I
shall examine you with judicial calm after
luncheon ; at present I'm rather hungry."

"Why is gluttony called a mortal sin in
the Roman Catholic Church ? " said Felicia,
as she helped herself to a truffle.

I have come to that peculiar stage of
learning when I answer all inquiries with
this trenchant sentence, * I don't know,' "
said Francisca.

"I've heard of the ' Doit You Know'
school," said Felicia ; " but the ' I Don't
Know ' is rare."

Major Clintock had helped himself along
during the drive with a great many " ,"
and he suspected there was malice
prepense in Miss Novello's remark.

Eat your truffle, Felicia," said Francisca ;
there is something about a truffle which
tends to the amelioration of irritable matter."

Major Clintock looked what he meant
at Francisca, and Mrs. Boosy, catching the
.look, sighed  'one pair of lovers was surely
enough."

*' Irritability, so says Tindal," commenced
Miss Edwards.

Good gracious ! Miss Edwards," said
Francisca, *you surely don't read Tyndall ; he
really does not know what you are made of ;
he confesses you are a mystery."

I don't think he knows mel' said Miss
Edwards, who had lost a derivation twice
now, and felt exasperated.

He' thinks," continued Francisca gravely,
that you are a succession of homogeneous
extended atomic solids."

Miss Edwards's horns retired within her
shell. This was too much.

That is what you are now," proceeded
Francisca ; '*' but before that you were (we all
were) anthropoid apes. AVill that take the
conceit out of us ? We were four-handed
in those days  capital people for pic-nics.
Then there was a n:ian-like animal prior
to the anthropoid ape. The clever fellow has
left a little implement of some sort behind
him, and my informant has conjured up a
picture of him too, too

Seriously, though, why don't our scientific
friends puzzle out an improvement on the

present race ? we have not progressed very
rapidly. Why don't we take another form ? "

Of what are they talking ? " said Lady
Ashburnham to Lady Masters.

*' Journeying atoms and primordial wholes,"
said Francisca. " Let me pass you the
mayonnaise."

Out came Miss Edwards's horns again. " I
think I remember the concluding line "

But poor Colonel Trelawny's woebegone
moustache, which had lost all its fine-pointed
excellence within the last few hours, so
enlisted Francisca's sympathy, that she implored
Miss Edwards to spare them.

These scientific people are mad, perfectly
mad," said Lady Ashburnham, whose whirling
r's made one giddy. " I hear some of
them say ogres and so forth are no myths 
that such people existed."

And do exist," said Francisca.

'' Science materializes a man, and renders
him perfectly wretched," said Lady Ashburn-
ham. " I always forbade Sir Frederick to
dabble in it. ' It will burn your fingers,' I
said ; and he invariably followed my advice."

I wish I could find such a sjjoso,'' said
Francisca. " If ever you come across a plastic
unspecialized placental mammal (eocene age)
let me know, Miss Edwards."

*' I wish I was a placental mammal," said
Major Clintock, as he picked up a white
chrysanthemum, which had fallen from Francisca's
dress, and decorated himself with it.
*' As it is, I want classifying."

You represent the British growl," said
Francisca.

I'm o'ettino; too civilized to fioht," said
Clintock.

'' That's the first sensible word I've heard
since we sat down to luncheon," said Lady

Asliburnham. " Imagine civilized, Christianized
people going and sticking one another
like you would stick wild boars : it's awful !
I agree with John Bright, and I say, if we
must fight, let there be a representative
fighter for each nation, and let the dispute be
settled by single combat. I think Sir Garnet
Wolsey would soon have settled Arabs."

The bloodless combat of brains," said
Felicia ; " that's the material I would use ;
we shall come to it in time. We are cultivating
the animal off the globe."

I'm not so sure," said Francisca maliciously
; for Mrs. Boosy was still looking after
her commissariat department as if a siege were
imminent. 'matter is matter and very troublesome
matter."

*' Look at John Bright," continued Lady
Ashburnham, folding her hands and settling
her back more comfortably, and thus preparing

for an oratorical display  for years ago she
had been a light in Edinburgh salons in her
own way  " a man of brilliant intellect, and
a man of peace. I have studied his grand head
by the hour."

In ' Democracy ' the Yankee eyes seem
to betray intellect more than the form of
the head. After reading the description of
the reception at White House, I positively
feel contemptuously about Republics," said
Francisca.

That ' book ' did Francisca much good ; she
was a Radical a short time ago' said Lady
Masters.

Lady Ashburnham, at this juncture, discovered
the grass was damp. " Such rich pasturage,"
she added. .

'That's why the monks liked it," said
Fl-ancisca.

*' Rich pastures and still lives," said Felicia,

rising and placing lier hand on her hip in the
last approved attitude ; " were they so much
to be pitied ? "

The monks kept a good table, I believe,"
said Mrs. Boosy, looking lively. " I've heard
of the most extraordinary costly dishes appearing
at their table."

I should have been sorry to have been a
monk," said Clintock, looking at Francisca.

' How funny you would look in a cold,"
said Francisca, surveying him with her leisurely
stare.

'' V\ij ftmni/ ? '' said Clintock plaintively.

Keep humble," said Francisca. " IJhf/
should not you look funny ? A touch, and you
can caricature anybody. How I have laughed 
at Lofti/ in 'Vjiity Fair'; did you happen to
see him ? "

All the party had now risen, and in the
midst of indeterminate counselling as to their

movements, Diana slipped away, and wandered
up to the house alone. The first thing she
noticed on entering was the picture of Hortense
di Cantilupe. The curtain, which had hitherto
draped it, was gone, and there it hung, taking
an immediate and imperious grip on the
imagination. Pass it by you could not ; be
you as unappreciative as you may, you must
look, and looking, speculate ; and speculating,
turn away with an indefinable sensation that
there was in this Hortense something e3rrie,
something different to most. Diana stood so
long before the picture, that the housekeeper
bustled up, to her disappointment.

Lovely lady, is she not ? Though not to
the taste of all ; some can't bear the face, and
yet they stand and stare, and turn away and
go back. You would hardly credit the remarks
of one sort and another that are passed on this
picture  since it has been removed to the

VOL. II. Q

hall Sir Blaise allows visitors, you know
(even when he is here), at certain hours 
one of the most liberal gentlemen, is he, that
ever trod this earth. But, as I was saying,
the remarks passed on this picture would fill a
catalogue ; the public know how to criticize,
and that pretty sharply. Sir Blaise is very
partial to the portrait  very partial of late.
I witnessed the placing of it here. Sir Blaise
was that fidgety, so to speak. I never saw him
so before. Worrying himself over lights and
cross-lights, and the exact height for hanging ;
twisting his handsome head this side, and that
side, till it made my neck ache watching
him. At last he got it fixed up to his liking,
and then he looked as pleased as pleased,
and there he stood as quiet as a mouse,
looking and looking at it, for I should not
like to say how long ; and every evening,
before he went up to Oxford, be it ever so

late, Sir Blaise would come and have a look at it
before going to his bed. Oh ! he is particularly
partial to it, is Sir Blaise."

The housekeeper's volubility was so great
that Diana did not attempt to get away till the
inevitable pause came, and then she expressed
a desire to go to the library, and there the glib
tongue of this estimable woman was silenced
by the impressive quietude of those vast shelves
of books ; curtseying, she left Diana to their
consideration .

Some of the books Sir Blaise had been
recently reading lay open on the table, some
with a paper-knife to mark the page, some with
the page turned down in anything but a careful
fashion. These marks which betray us, are they
not welcome to "love"? What "sublime attraction
" they discover to us ! A glow suffused
Diana ; she felt " at home."

Opening one which treated of theology, she

Q 2

found a slip of paper inserted ; mechanically
she read it, without pausing to question
whether it were right or wrong. In pencil
she found these words, which seemed to lift
her into another atmosphere  '' Is it according
to Thy will, God, that this most blessed
of earthly gifts should be mine ? Should I
lose, in a creature love  my love for Thee ?
Let Thy will be perfectly worked out in me,
God ; and if it be Thy Divine will to give
or to withdraw, still let me serve Thee withall
my heart."

Diana's eyes were riveted on the slip of
paper. All things seemed to be slipping
away, and she herself, for once, brought face
to face with this mystery of a soul's absorption
into Deity. How poor her pride and
ambition seemed, how poor everything, in
comparison to this ! Already, in Sir Blaise,
she apprehended the passion of a soul to

reach what it exists to find  God. Human
love is but a faint foretaste and prelude to
this awakening. Sir Blaise had apprehended,
however faintly, the true dignity of his manhood
 for is not man in his perfect form
Heaven," according to ethical laws ?

How immeasurably spirit is distanced from
spirit, what oceans and continents divide limitless
thought ! Here were the chatterers jabbering
of time, and here was Diana brooding over
the mysteries of eternity ; and yet so admirably
concealed are our spirits in the fine armour
which protects us, that, though the hemispheres
may divide us, it is only apprehended
of the subtle.

Miss Beauchamp," cried Felicia, as, followed
by the rest of the party, she entered
the library, " we have all been wondering what
had become of you  at least, those of us," she
added, sotto voce, " who have any powers of

wonderment left. I tumbled out of that starveling
ago."

Here come the ' Skyes,' " said Francisca ;
'* now, not one of us have such a deep expression
in our eyes  not one. We all look perfectly
vapid beside them."

*' I will send you half a dozen such dogs," said
Clintock ; " I have a splendid breed."

Felicia sighed, and glanced at Diana. The
Besant and Vice Limited Company had received
its coup de grace. Francisca would never resist
this.

*' And Fve a couple of deerliounds up at
my place in Scotland, the envy of all the
ladies about there ; and I have never given
them away yet, but will not  will you have
them ? "

Felicia and Diana's moving drapery swept
unheeded by the pair. Skye terriers and deer-hounds
were quite too much for Francisca's

little citadel. There was a triumphant beam
in Clintock's small and rather hardened eyes
as he glanced at Trelawny, who was caressing
his moustache into fine-pointed excellence once
more.

SANCTUARIES.

* Love that hath us in the net
Can he pass and we forget ?
Many suns arise and set,
Many a chance the years beget.
Love the gift is love the debt;

Even so.
Love is hurt with jar and fret,
Love is made a vague regret ;
Eyes with idle tears are wet,
Idle habit links us yet.
What is love ? for we forget.
Ah no ! no ! "

Diana, may I come in ? " The voice was
Franciscans and the hour was late.

Of course' said Diana, as she opened the
door.

"You are utterly unlike other girls," said
Francisco; "and I don't know whether you
will be pleased with me ; but I am come
to have a sanctuary talk. Now you, Diana,
without being manly, have manly ways'*

I've always led a solitary description of
life," said Diana, whose burnished hair was
streaming down her back, and "golden lilies"
thrust into a pair of Chinese shoes.

"Men never let you into their sanctuaries,
but I am going to let you into mine," said
Francisca.

You will make it a vulgar place," said
Diana. " Only the feet we love best, and trust
to the death, should tread our sanctuaries."

"It's not my way," said Francisca; "any
roadside beggar may turn over my treasures,
and steal them, for all I care. Human nature
is as various as snow-flakes ; thanks to the
-variety, we are saved monotony. When I'm

wearied of Plato's patrician polish, I can
embrace Socrates' plebeian ugliness. You remember,
I told you that I loved Sir Blaise.
At eighteen, one is allowed to express one's
sentiments frankly. That my mind is formed
for my years, I don't deny ; but I am shrewd
enough to take the minor advantage of my few
summers."

*' Yes," said Diana, sweeping a tress over
her eyes.

'' Now, I am going to love somebody else.
What do you say to that ? Is it poetry or
prose ? "

Diana shivered slightly; but so did the
swaying limes outside, for a breeze, which
carried a message of storm, had swept by.

Let me shut the window ; you are cold,"
said Francisca.

**No, don't," said Diana.

** Sir Blaise will always be to me the goodliest

man I ever saw," continued Francisca ;
but am I to dress St. Catherine's hair because
there is none so goodly ? How do all
the ordinary little couples we see strutting
about in a description of dough-cake happiness
get on ? Have they no aspirations ? Is dough-cake,
after all, more beneficial than one of
Gunter's elegant creations ? 1 see Sir Blaise
in every glorious old tradition and legend
which can charm and captivate the fancy.
He has caught my imagination, but the vision
is not for me."

Francisca paused for several seconds, and
Diana remained silent.

'* Mrs. Boosy," continued Francisca, " married
Mr. Boosy because his prescriptions allowed
her a further absorption of dainty meats  that
and the fees together. You know what a Court
darling's fees are ? "

Oh ! don't," said Diana, laughing.

** Quite true ; if we were to dive into the
motives which prompt the greater part of
matrimonial arrangements, our hair would
hardly set so meekly on our brows as at present.
Mr. Busy married Mrs. Rosy because she is
Lady Ashburnham's daughter ; and this adds
lustre to the social standing of the study
of medicine. Now, / should never condescend
to such small motives."

Diana's shoulders were shaking beneath her
thick tresses. She was thinking of the Skye
terriers and greyhounds.

After all," said Francisca, " what is so
pleasing in a woman as a yielding nature %
And even if I had not a yielding nature,
I'm no Helen of Argos  I have no * universal
beauty.' I have summed up my best points ;
I know exactly where I am. All women
should occasionally take a glance round
themselves and classify their charms, and

discover inhere they lie ; half the miseries
of life are caused by omission to take this
glance round. Each separate one of us can
be an Orphee on some point. You, Diana,
are like Helen of Argos ; for you  no matter
you must always consort with demi-gods.
Your spirit will seek them out ; but hobbledehoy
Francisca Masters has no universal radiance
about her, or exceptional radiance either,

hence "

Francisca paused, then said abruptly 
"How do you like Major Clintock ? But,
I won't await an answer ; I know you too
well. I will tell you all about him. During
our drive home this evening I thoroughly
examined him. He is a little tired of life ;
a little anxious for a settlement in life. The
lady must have a little money to add to his
little. He never quite decided where to
settle till to-day ; he is more heroic than

he looks, and his hands (for a careful man)
take very kindly to his pockets, which sign
I consider favourable ; for I really do abhor
a screw. Marry a screw, and your life will
be rendered a procession of ghastly deeds  a
description of sliding board from one gaucUerie
to another."

I suppose Major Clintock is Scotch ? " said
Diana.

Yes ; and here comes the worst part of
the story. There are six Misses Clintock,
and they are living on the estate ; and, of
course, if he marries, the six must leave ;
and, he hinted, it would be like tearing up
Scotch firs."

Again Diana shivered. There is a terrible
cruelty in life. Our unthinking feet are terribly
metallic in their tread. We crush out human
life as easily as the tiny insects beneath our
heel, after all.

This sounds cruel," said Francisca ; " but the
weak must give way to the strong  according
to Darwin."

What says Buddha ? " said Diana, breaking
her long silence : " ' There is nothing but
sorrow in life ; sorrow is produced by our
affections ; our affections must be destroyed
in order to destroy the root of sorrow ; ' and
that he could teach mankind how to eradicate
all affections, all passions, all desires "

Impossible ! " said Francisca. " Each new
cii-constance of our lives creates a fresh root.
We should spend all our time with a spade in
our hand."

Perhaps," said Diana, pursuing her own
train of thought, "out of a death-throe may
spring up some flower which will fit us for
Paradise. Life feeds on death ; death animates
life. Mystery upon mystery surrounds us."

Six Misses Clintock," continued Francisca,

notching them off on her fingers ; " and all
rooted in the soil. The thins niust be done
in a bustle, or it will never be done. Sometimes
a whirlwind is needed. There is such
confusion and smash and havoc, all round, that
somebody is sure to get their own way in the
middle of it."

'have you known Major Clintock long?"
said Diana.

*' I met him this season  he had no personality
 leaning against Rotten Now railings ;
but everybody has a chance of being discovered,
with a background of pasture land
and grazing cows. We are tired of the serene
landscape and the grazing cows, with their
occasional glance of placid wonderment at our
indifference to herbage. We say, 'Here comes
a man I a woman ! a child ! Hurrah ! ' Major
Clintock has gained a personality from mere
package."

And then Franciscans eyelids began to droop
rather heavily over her saucy eyes, and pulling
herself together with a certain military
erectness, which was natural to her, she
bade Diana a prompt good-night, and went to
her own room.

Blowing out the wax-lights, Diana threw
herself into a chair by the open window.

The moon looked out from its veil of
massing clouds, and the wind had commenced
the long low whistle which is significant of its
most cancerous mood  that whistle which stirs
the sap to a very madness in the trees, and
makes them ready to battle ; so that, by-and-by,
as the whistle is lost in the shout and the
scream, they throw up wild arms, and meet the
rough embrace of this mysterious force with
exultant.

Now the massing clouds parted for a moment,
and again the troubled face of the moon was

VOL. II. R

visible as they fled hither and thither like a
vanquished foe ; and now they massed again,
and all was thick darkness.

To Diana, the impending storm fitted her
mood ; she felt oppressed with a vague sense
of fear, and yet she could find no satisfactory
answer to the wherefore she sedulously asked
herself.

That Sir Blaise loved her she was conscious.
Blessed consciousness, how often did she con
over this treasured secret with exultant joy !
That he made excuses for her ambition, she
had also divined ; his generous nature would
clothe even a foible with some reflex virtue.
He loved her; and love, like the sun, decks
a weed with some beauty. Love is so prolific
in itself that it quickly yields a rich harvest.
Love has a royal mantle, and grace and
dignity follow in its footsteps. Yet the two
years, which had seemed as nothing yesterday,

loomed out like the rolling centuries to-night.
What if she freed Beauchamp, and some intervening
shadow came meantime between Sir
Blaise and her ?

Diana rose ; the thought was unbearable.
What shadow could come? Only the shadow
of death. And, in the strength of her love,
Diana felt almost as if she could parry that
grim visitant, should he hover overhead.

Diana felt her whole being strung to such
tension that she longed for the relief of
tears ; for fears find their best outlet in this
form, and the next moment may find us smiling
in happy disdain at our own superstition
or stupidity; but to natures capable of the
highest pitch of suffering, tears are no gracious
visitants. They associate with the lazy,
smiling, sanguine temperaments  natures
which, though deprived of everything, and
cut up into pieces, yet crawl comfortably

K 2

together, and are found in the broad ways
and frequented paths, sunning themselves,
and fraternizing with their kind.

To such, anguish is as mysterious and
unknowable as the phenomena with which
they are surrounded The phenomena are
outward ; they see, but have no part in them.
So is suffering.

Looking out into the darkening night,
Diana's cry went forth  " Keep me from any
great trouble ! " But, like Agamemnon calling,
not only on the gods, but on rivers and stars,
she felt no assurance of an answer.

A WILD NIGHT.

'' Fhir a bhata {na hero mile).
Fhir a bhata (na hero mile).
Fhir a bhata {na hero mile).
Cheat sire slain led ge thorp a iheid m;."

We can never overcome a feeling of awe at
the boom of thunder, at the bright shining of
lishtoinoj. All the fine words in the world
about electricity, and cloud meeting cloud,
and accruing results, cannot rob a storm of its
awful majesty. Ancient man cowered before
the blast of the tempest, and dreamed of
extirpating vengeance. Modern man may
smile philosophically ; but he is none the less

glad to have a roof over his head and a few
crossway beams to protect him, withal.

Not often is peaceful England visited by such
a storm as swept over her shores that night.
The breeze, which had ruffled the swaying
limes but a short time before, had kindled
into a raging whirlwind, which moaned in the
chimneys and dashed against the windowpanes
like the rattle of musketry. Nature's
most awful passion had come and gone in the
throes of thunder and lightning, and now its
wild fury was passing away in the blinding
rain and the whistling wind. Felicia Novello
and Francisca had both fled in wild alarm
into Lady Ashburnham's room.

"Give me a Scotchman in times of
danger," Felicia had said as she tapped at
Francisca's door, and dragged her along the
corridor. 'i've tried all nationalities in
storms and whatnot, and for a stout defence

give me the Scotch. You Yill see Lady
Ashburnham, probably, comfortably tucked up
in bed, swathed in a multitude of flannels and
fast asleep, just as if Nature was not longing
to sweep away man and beast off the face of
the globe."

Felicia's words proved true. Lady Ashburn-
ham was slumbering peacefully  and Cjuite as
happily in a storm as in a calm.

Wake up, Lady Ashburnham," said
Felicia, giving her a gentle shake. " Everybody
is up and about."

A storm, is it ? " said she, arising with
every sense in capital working order. "And
what's a storm, to make you afraid? Put
your trust in Providence, and go hack to your
sleep."

'* Sleep, with thunderbolts as a narcotic!"
said Felicia. " Who but a Scotchman
could?"

'*x\nd it's out of bed ye are determined to
get me," said Lady Ashburnliam (now giving
way to her native Highland, to discourse
on Gaelic courage). "You should see a storm
over Fladda and StafFa ; after that, you would
think nothing of this. What sights and
sounds and daft laughter ! Hut I my lassies,
this is like the love hit shrill of a new-born
babe. 'Tis nae like the mad passion of our
Hieland storms, which begin with a moan and
a wail, and end up like the tread of ten
thousand Icelanders as they march to their
death.

Aye ! it's a wild shore that mothered
me. I was nursed to the chant of the
wild music of Mull ; and is it fear she
taught me ? Na  na ; I was born and bred
among the granite of her coasts. It's a
wild shore that mothered me, but she nurtured
me to have nae fear. Often and often

I've been out in my father's yacht in the
Sound of Mull, with the sea running as high
as the Atlantic can run ; not a star in the
sky visible, and all black around. Aye ! the
Sound can be awful rough  for all the pretty
colours she can show when the sun lightens
on her.

It's a wild coast that mothered me, and
the lesson she taught me was, ' Have ?hae
fear Often and often, lassies, I fall asleep to
the wild music of the waters of Mull ; dear
is its music to me. As a child, I would
make my grand collections of seaweed, for
there the hues of it are wonderful. Your thee
bits of brown stuff and green stuff, at your
English watering-places, what are they ? "

'' What is Miss Beauchamp about ? " said
Felicia, suddenly interrupting Lady Ashburn-
lias's reminiscences ; which, indeed, were
never far distant, for the Scotch are as

tenacious of their recollections as of their
pedigrees.

Her door is locked," said Francisca. '' T
went to call her a few minutes before you
came to me, but she begged me to leave her
alone."

Aye, aye,' said Lady Ashburnham, " did
I not say there was much sociability about
the face % Maggie has nae discernment ; but
she takes after poor Sir Frederick ; he liked
nothing out of the ordinary but that tallied
with his politics ; maybe Miss Beauchamp has
some of the Gaelic in her."

No, no," said Francisca ; " you Scotch
people sprout out as Premiers, Archbishops,
and Commandants ; for the thistle is to be
seen in the most conspicuous places in England
; but Miss Beauchamp is English, purely
English r

'* Well, so was my husband. Sir Frederick,"

said Lady Ashburnham. " But what matter
what race we be when the end comes, and
Providence claims us ? Providence won't ask
us whether we be Celts or Saxons ; Providence
will ask us, * Have you done your
religious duties ? ' And now go away to your
sleep, lassies, and have nae fear."

Miss Novello and Francisca, having caught
the Gaelic mood, did so, and, when morning
broke in, like the calm which succeeds a storm,
wondered why they had been so frightened.

UNREST.

To thine lion self he true''

To the consternation of all the party, Diana
announced her intention of returning to Beauchamp
on the following clay.

She had received a letter from Mr. Cantus
by the early post, to say that the first
recitation for the season at Cosmos Hall was
announced for a week hence, and her attendance
was needed in town : as, however difficult
it may be to transcend perfection, still there
were passages in the ' Divina Commedia '
which he trusted Miss Beauchamp would do
him the honour to recite in his presence.

You know the interest I take in you," he
added, ** and the jealous care with which I
guard the very great reputation you have
gained. The fame of your transparent renderings
of the inspirations of our poets will soon
penetrate from continent to continent. Gain
London, and you gain the world."

But his praise failed to stir Diana's pulse.
She had given her word to Mr. Cantilupe that
for two years she would appear duly at Cosmos
Hall, and she never thought of going back
from it ; but, nevertheless, the glow of enthusiasm
was gone  at any rate, for the time being.
Why a grey morning had come and shaded
down all the glory colours from her art and
enterprise, she knew not ; but she could
hardly have spoken about the garlands and
flags with which she would decorate Beauchamp
 two years hence  to-day.

She only felt a yearning desire to let Sir

Blaise tell her all now  to gather his love to
herself 7iow ; and let mortgages and everything
else do with themselves as they liked best.
What was pride or ambition in comparison to
love ? What though Miss Beauchamp with a
rent-roll was other than Miss Beauchamp without
dower ? Sir Blaise was indifferent to all this.
He would beckon her to his side, though she
stood bereft of all the world accounts  yes,
even as Cophetua the Beggar Maid. But she
had chosen her path, and she must walk in it.

But when these two dreary years had run out
ah, then ! The colour sprang to Diana's
cheeks, and the light to her eyes

You might stay over to-night, at any
rate," said Francisca, as Diana was explaining
her hasty departure to Lady Masters. " Weare
going to try Thought Beading ; and it
would be so interesting to * experimentalize ' on
you. At the touch of our fingers on your

shoulders, you would be certain to move in
the right direction. We have some bonbons
for Mrs. Boosy,  of course she sill waddle
towards them ; and for Mr. Languedoc, a
volume of De Musset's poems, which, if he
makes a dash at, he is to receive as a present
from Felicia and me. Do stay and join in
the game ! "

But Diana was longing to be back at Beauchamp,
even if the study of the ' Divina
Commedia ' did not imperatively demand her
attention.

Mrs. Battle's comely face was bathed in
smiles, as she stood on the hall-steps watching
the fly which was bringing ]\Iiss Beauchamp
up the avenue. For Francisca had well said,
when she declared that Diana's beauty was of
the " diffusive order."

Mrs. Battle had missed this '' Helen of
Argos," whose nature, though she understood

it not, had ca wonderful fascination for her ;
and to Diana, the little kindly deeds and
homely touches which sprang from the
simple heart of Mrs. Battle were sweet as
water from some wayside spring.

Sometimes it was a little bunch of flowers
that greeted Diana, waking  haphazard combinations,
of Mrs. Battle's own peculiar selecting,
and placed on the toilet-table amidst many
costly nicknames, with stealthy steps, for fear
of disturbing Miss Beauchamp. Sometimes it
was an impossible-looking collar, which she
had spent many weeks in embroidering,
that Diana found amongst her * confections ' 
little services of affection, which were none
the less sweet for their unconsciousness of all
incongruity.

*'I am so glad to come hume, Mrs. Battle,"
said Diana. " I will never pay another visit ;
the restraint galls me, and the discipline

makes me feel like a cao-ed bird. You see I've
never been disciplined."

** I've been dismal without you  dismal
indeed ! Miss Beauchamp," said Mrs. Battle.
Yesterday, Mrs. Bovin was over here, trying
to cheer me up, on the one hand, and doa
stroke of business on the other. She made
many excuses for Mr. Bovin's choler, and
says he wants to continue your lawyer. I
knew he would come to himself,  a practical,
sensible man like that, giving way to his
imaginations 1 "

Oh ! Homespun, you do me good," said
Diana, laughing, and glancing round the
dining-room with a gratified sense of return
to familiar objects. " So rage is all imagination
! That's something to keep in ambush
for a lovers' qual-el ! "

'* Joseph and I never quarrelled," said Mrs.

Battle.

VOL. II. a

'I have always been fond of salt," said
Diana mischievously. "So is the sea. It's
the salt that makes the sea so full of moods.
But I'll tell you a legend about that some
day. It relates to a mermaid."

"What of Mr. Bovin?" said Mrs. Battle.
He is a peppery man, I must allow."

"Tell Mr. Bovin that I am delighted he
has reconsidered his decision," said Diana ;
and I hope he will continue my lawyer."

"That's all right," said Mrs. Battle, sighing
comfortably.

Then Diana threw herself into Sir Golfs
arm-chair, and sighed too. She could not
shake off the indefinable fear which had
shrouded her spirit last evening. " In Italy
I never felt so," she thought as she watched
Mrs. Battle bustling about the room.

Once I did, though. Yes, once, when I
thought surely I was going to have the pernicious.

That was because I had been out on the
marshes, many, many leagues from home, to see
those old Etruriann tombs ; and the sadness and
the silence of those tombs filled me with awe,
and the vaporous breath of the marshes seemed
to sicken me.

How thankful I was to get back to Some,
and to hear the sound of the strings, as Giulio
sat in the courtyard, singing to her mandoline.
I remember I said, * Giulia  sing.
Sing something gay. I've been amongst
those old tombs in Etruria, and though the
bees were humming as they flew past me in
companies on those wild marshes, and making
music that I love, and there were starry
flowers everywhere, I had neither eye nor ear
for sight and sound which charm me at other
times ; for, oh ! Giulia, I have been among
the tombs."

"And then Giulia took my hand and kissed

S 2

it, and said that I Lad surely seen some one
with the evil eye, and that she would go and
put up an Ave Maria for me. How well I
remember it all ! and since last night I've felt
like that." And again Diana sighed.

END OF VOL. II.

BY

CONSTANCE MacEWEN.

TWO VOLS.
CHAPMAN & Hall (LIMITED).

Aims at philosophy of the highest order. . . . Her
personages all talk in philosophic strain, and talk lyell.
. . Some of her aphorisms are worthy of a place in a
book of metaphysical dissertations. In short, ' Gin a Body
Meet a Body ' is one of the deepest works of the present
moment."  Court Journal.

"Carlyle style of language . . . clever and amusing."
Daily News.

''A very powerful writer."  Ladies' Pictorial.

May be empowered to take a very high rank as a writer
of fiction. It is as a metaphysical analysis perhaps that
this work is entitled to a very high consideration. The
authoress has well seized on the peculiar erratic, and, at the
same time, voluble thoughts that distinguish the ' waking
dreams' of the educated man. . . Should devour this
tale. We hope to read much more from the pen of this
gifted authoress."  Public Opinion.

"A remarkable book. Agreeably written."  Life.

Metaphysics."  Queen.

Will well pay penal. She has shown us she is capable
of good literary work."  Hampshire Telegraph.

She has placed her finger wisely and firmly on many of
the social problems of the day."  Liverpool Mercury.

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS


y-3

MISS BEAUCHAMP

A PHILISTINE

 VOL. Ill

A PHILISTINE.

BY

CONSTANCE MacEWEN,

Author OF
"GIN A BODY MEET A BODY," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES. VOL. TIL

Sucli a Lord is Love.

LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL

(Limited).

1883.

\ All Rights reserved']

Clay AND TATLOE, Painters.

CONTENTS.

II.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX,

X.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

FINESSE

THE POPPIES .

FROM THAT MOMENT

AGGRESSIVE LANDLORDS

A SHEFFIELD LADY

ON THE FLOW .

FICTION BECOMES FACT

WHAT WORLD IS THIS*?

GOLDEN MOMENTS

DIEGO's LOVES .

SUBTLETY

EGYPT

THE "SERAPIS"

A whisper's FRUIT

PAGE




























CONTENTS.

CHAP.

XV. WANDERINGS

XVI. REALIZATION

XVII. SHALL l1

XVIII. MRS. battle's DISCRIMINATION

XIX. COUNSEL

XX. WHAT Now . .

XXI. INFANT VOICES .

XXII. THE Duc DI Castille .

"We came to the silent Isle that we
Never had touch'd at before,
Where a silent ocean always broke
On a silent shore."

A PHILISTINE.

CHAPTER I.

FINESSE.

It is easy fo sugar to he sheet, and to nitre to be salt."
'' A sound apple produces seed ; a hybrid does riot."

Diana and Mrs. Battle were in town. There
were yet a few colourless leaves on the trees
in the Parks, and but few people had returned.
Mr. Cantilupe had inaugurated a series of recitations
at a dull time ; but he had motives.
Almost every afternoon he was to be found

in the drawing-room at M Street ; but

never a word of love, or a hint of love, since

g VOL. HI. B

that interview at Beaucliamp, lead passed his
lips. Had he not embraced time ?

Diana grew accustomed to his presence, and
so long: as his conversation ran on intellectual
lines, it was as pleasant as studying Greek
Art.

Airs. Battle's lips had taken a depressed turn ;
the drooping corners were expressive of some
inward annoyance. She spent many Saturday
afternoons at the *' Zoo," studying serpents ;
and, shaking her head, '' Symbols of sin " washer
refrain. Mrs. Battle never informed Diana
of these visits to the " Zoo." She had grown
more reticent with regard to Mr. Cantilupe,
and the expression of her opinion concerning
him ; but none the less watchful.

He vvon't put me easily off my guard," washer
constant thought. " That he has designs on
Miss Beaucliamp, as surely as the serpent had
designs on Eve, I, Martha Battle, would lay

my head on a stock to endorse ; but whether
those designs be love or hate, I don't pretend
(not being endowed with supernatural discernment)
to affirm ; but designs are none the less
designs for not parading themselves in black
or scarlet.

'' All this Art talk and Greek worship, what's
at the bottom of it ? I'm tired to death of
Homer. If I'm old-fashioned, I'm sure so is
he ; and making such a fuss over a heathen
too ! I suppose Sir Blaise Panmure himself
won't get into the Church without having some
parley with him. I know Greek and Latin and
theology all dovetail. Wait till Sir Blaise
comes to town ; we shall see who will have
the best of it then. I wish Miss Beauchamp
would be warned ; but, there  there."

Entering the drawing-room one Saturday
afternoon after her periodical visit to the Zoo,
she found Mr. Cantilupe murmuring of " Jupiter

B 2

of Elis." As he was in the middle of his story,
she sat down without a word.

Phidias," he had commenced (and here he
bowed to Mrs. Battle, who returned the bow
with her best nod ; she never could bow ;
never had learned to dance and bow and oolite

o

never), " when he projected his ' Jupiter
of Elis,' found no grouping of thought 
found only chaos. He endeavoured to bring
order out of chaos. He paced the streets
restlessly ; he wandered up and down his
room ; but no help came. Wonderful visions
were there, but all so confused and involved,
that they could not spring forth clear and
fair.

One night he lay tossing on his couch,
struggling to arrange his thoughts, when he
fell asleep and dreamed ; and this is what he
dreamt  Groups of Grecian maids approached
him, and on their shapely heads (which have

been the model of every artist and sculptor)
they carried pails of water, and as they
walked they sang a song of praise to Jupiter.
Then a wonderful lightness and brilliancy,
like the herald of dawn, flowed into the
soul of Phidias, for the sun of poetry had
looked upon him ; and the image he had
chased in his waking dreams, and in his
sleeping thoughts, came forth, and took its
perfect form.

"It is ever thus with genius. Proteus
finds his own in this fashion. Think you
Shakespeare, Homer, Dante, had not their
visions in this fashion also ? Talent may
sit with its quill pen in its hand, and with
eyes fixed on the MS. before it. It may so sit
for years, clipping and pruning and turning
its fine phrases ; but genius labours till Proteus
brings the winged form to its side, and
crystallizes it into symmetry ; and then Shakespeare

thunders and pipes, till lie draws a
world to listen ; then Dante paints his ' Inferno
and Homer sings his ' Iliad ' : 'tis thus Proteus
bestows his inspirations.

"Miss Beauchamp, Proteus has not passed
you by. Your creations have yet to come, butin
your delineations of the creations of others
I declare the ' sun of poetry ' has looked upon
you*'

Do you know," he continued, " that I
am about to build a house ? I can leave it
to the nation when I die. A childless, relation-less
man must needs find something colossal
to adopt ; in the very grandeur of his adoption
he wait find some consolation." Mr. Cantus
eyes were sedulously fixed on Mrs.
Battle's rounded cheek, which was turned,
with some assumed intelligence, towards the
window.

'' Every detail," he added, " of the house

will partake of the spirit of the so-called
Pagans. Beneath the myths and fables of
those bygone days, I shall enter more and
more into the spirit of the fine arts."

*' I am peculiarly delighted with the Renaissance
school of thought," said Diana. " Their
grotesque and weird effects fill one with
laughter. It's good to laugh; and the exuberant
imagination of the Renaissance period
relieves the tension that one feels, as one is
lost in the sublimity of those perfect creations
of the ancient Greeks."

Let me tell you how the Renaissance
period came about," said Mr. Cantilupe. " The
gods were holding high converse one day.
They had conceived the idea of throwing off
their divine garments, and coming down to
wander among the tragedies and comedies of
mankind. The idea met with unanimous
approval. They descended to earth.

Now, ill invisible form, they entered the
studios of painters and sculptors, and filled
them with strange fantasies. Visible life came
before them in a new and fantastic form ; for
all visible life had gathered in invisible form, todo
homage to the gods as they walked upon
our earth. Grasshoppers curtsied by the side
of fine dames, and toads croaked of love and
homage. Seals rose up from the unfathomable
depths, and walked on terra Jirnm, with
plaintive, upturned eyes. The period was one
of mingled humour and pathos ; and the artists
and sculptors, filled with a very frenzy of
delineation, covered the walls and ceilings,
the doors and chimney-pieces, with the extraordinary
images that the gods, in their
mingled amusement and sorrow for the strange
earth that they were treading, had put into
their minds. Well, Miss Beauchamp, shall I
fit my house up in the Renaissance period ? "

"By all means," said Diana; "and in
the midst of these incongruities paint a
full-length portrait of a ' Sage Here you
will have a perfect picture of life ; for is not
real life full of incongruities  everything so
mixed and so blended, that, whether you will
or not, you can but look out upon it as a
huge curiosity shop  full of value and
rubbish ? "

Excuse me. Miss Beauchamp," said Mrs.
Battle. " I know I'm not clever ; but, all the
same, I know the dust-cart makes use of all
rubbish."

Mrs. Battle, for all I know, you are the
sage whose portrait should be painted in the
middle of the Renaissance grotesquely. You
have your common-sense well unadulterated ;
in fine, you might be the instructress of a
million sages ! "

Mrs. Battle has the manners of * Loo,' "

said Mr. Cantilupe. " She makes the stupid
intelligent. I quite forgot, in listening to
Miss Beauchamp, that there was such a thing
as rubbish, or such a receptacle as a dust-cart.
'Tis thus with all imaginative talkers ;
they set a light to other people's imaginations,
and immediately we feel bounding onwards,
through the never-ending infinities. AYe are
set free by the enchanting touch ; before, we
were spell-bound. There is no problem we
would not make a dash to unravel ; no mathematical
calculation we feel we could not at a
bound scale. Catch the spirit of your narrator,
and you are immediately fused into one."

Mrs. Battle pursed up her lips, and looked
down. This was a species of matrimony.

*' Did you ever read Plato's ' Republic,' Mrs.
Battle ? " said Mr. Cantilupe.

'platonic, Mr. Cantilupe, I have heard of,
and platonic I disapprove of most thoroughly,

completely, and determinately. I have never
entered into one of those friendships myself;
and I have, on my own and late husband's
authority, given in my veto on such intimacies.
I believe Plato wore a round cloak
with a double hood. I have seen him so
garbed in a picture. His p] atones, with
regard to the sexes (for I've always heard of
his platonic in relation to this question), are
so hooded. According to these maxims and
views I have founded my walk in life, Mr.
Cantilupe."

For once Mr. Cantilupe laughed. This
narrowing of the sublime theories of Plato
down to those narrow limits was enough to
produce some faint reflection of the passion of
laughter, which can only be procured by the
glaring, and the impression of something
exaggerated, either in speech or appearance.

* Your very language is tempered with

Plato' said he. " Even Miss Austin, whose
works I often see in your hands, did not
project her ' Emma ' without his aid. He is
the universal man, from whom poets, orators,
authors, statesmen, get their style in some
measure. Miss Beauchamp is a disciple of
his."

I like his vast mind," said Diana meditatively.
'' I reverence him ; because you
could not say. Here comes this or that. He
gathered a ray from every philosophy and
every school to himself; so Plato never turns
a frozen exterior on you."

'Tm glad genius is rare," said Mrs. Battle.
Life, as far as I can see, abounds in pots,
pans, and kettles, and the makers of them.
You can do without your genius, but you cant
do without your breakfast."

Mrs. Battle's remark was addressed to Mr.
Cantilupe, for Diana had left the room.

Sometimes we have to wait long for some
desired moment to fall in our way. We have
to sit midway in our scheme or plot, waiting
for the circumstance we need. Napoleon
called himself the ** creature of circumstances'

Not so Mr. Cantilupe ; he considered himself,
in some measure, the artist who had embroidered
his own circumstances ; he had not
looked to any supernatural aid, though he
belonged to the Romish Church. Collectively
speaking, he believed in that Church, because
it traded on the imagination  because it allured
you with its jewelled altars, and overpowered
you with its constantly ascending incense.
Colder forms of worship seemed impossible to
him, and then  absolution. Mr. Cantilupe
had an eye forward always. Father Marine
knew much ; he might know more some day ;
and the altar to " Our Lady," in the marvellous
Church of the Annunciation, might flash

a few more gems before her crowds of worshippers.


Mr. Cantilupe had for long desired to have
a few minutes' conversation alone with Mrs.
Battle. Not that he wanted to know anything
further with regard to Miss Beauchamp
and Sir Blaise ; he perfectly understood
the relationship that existed between them.
Armed with his own divining powers, and
Diego's certain utterances, he was independent
of further revelations ; but he desired to bewilder
Mrs. Battle as to his own interest in
Miss Beauchamp. If once he could silence her
suspicions, it would be all the better for the
part he had to perform ; and surely a Saxon
dame without imagination, and guided by
little more than a dim instinct encased in some
outward wrappings of shrewd common sense,
was to be blinded by a little judicious dust-throwing,
or mystified, at any rate.

Miss Beauchamp exerts herself unwittingly,"
he commenced ; " sometimes I fear
periods of mental exhaustion must accrue.
Not that I have ever witnessed such signs,
but sometimes I apprehend them."

Mrs. Battle glanced suspiciously at Mr. .
'' What form of platonism was this '? "

As they sat there, facing each other, they
reminded one of the homely fable of the spider
and the fly. Be sure, the spider will get the
best of it ; though, if you have ever watched
a real encounter between these two opposing
forces, you might perhaps doubt it  the spider
seems so blind, the fly so careful. Ugh ! what
a sudden bound the spider has made, as he
lets himself down his tight rope ! What a
death-clasp about the fly ! Life is ugly enough,
even among the spiders and flies.

In two years, Miss Beauchamp informs me,
her project will be accomplished," said Mrs.

Battle with some dignity. " I believe she
considers herself much indebted to you, Mr.
Cantilupe ; and gratitude is one of Miss Beauchamp's
many virtues."

None are more conscious of Miss Beauchamp's
graces than myself  no one more
zealous for her interest and comfort. I think
I have proved it."

Mr. Cantilupe paused, and Mrs. Battle
looked down and interlaced her hands.

If Eve had paused when the serpent stood
beside her, with beguiling voice, would she
have eaten the accursed apple which brought
us knowledge, and, with knowledge, death ?
What did this subtle man want to " draw " from
Mrs. Battle ?

'men are supposed to be' practical," he
continued, " and in comparison with women
they are so. Women are supposed to be
romantic, and in comparison with men they

are so. Doubtless, living, as you do, in the
constant presence of so beautiful and gifted a
girl as Miss Beaucliamp, you find the materials
to hand out of which to construct a story
more thrilling than the loves of Eloise and
Abelard.

You, indeed, need not go far from Beauchamp
to find your Abelard. Is not Sir
Blaise Panmure a man to fit the mood of
most women ? The Panmures have been
famed for their beauty and their wealth.
Some women are slaves to this sort of worship.
They cannot love unless they can cry out, ' Here
comes my hero!' What majesty of mien!
what proud grace ! Surely, these are the
men who tread the earth by right. If such
an one beckons, they follow ; they are caught
by the spell of physical beauty ; and if there
is added on to this other and higher forms of
attraction, the case from the outset is hopeless."

VOL. III. c

Mrs. Battle continued silent. Regarding his
immovable listener attentively, Mr. Cantilupe
said slowly 

*' I think this marriage, which you have
doubtless romantically projected, and I have
practically considered, will be the likely termination
of Miss Beauchamp's brilliant success ;
for a Lady Panmure could hardly lend herself
to dramatic impersonations as a professional,
even if Sir Blaise, with an invisible mitre
probably awaiting him, could approve such
exhibition."

Was Mr. Cantilupe sneering ? Mrs. Battle
was too taken aback to think even ; his words
were penetrating brain and mind ; she would
meditate over it all by-and-by ; meantime,
enough to listen. Some people can absorb
the material which is being proffered through
the medium of another's language, and use it,
and turn it out in shape and form as rapidly

as a machine makes a fabric, and knits it into
folds, ready to be displayed in glass windows.
Others absorb slowly, and brood over their
valuable information long before it takes any
symmetry.

Sir Blaise is a large landed proprietor in
Ireland, as well as here'' continued Mr. Cantus
" As Lady Panmure, what benefits on
those unhappy peasants Miss Beauchamp might
bestow ! Well, Mrs. Battle, we are in sympathy,
I feel sure, in our desire for Miss
Beauchamp's welfare ; and if I have lost a
practical view of matters in a romantic hope,
I am sure you are equally foolish."

*' Foolish ! " cried Mrs. Battle, flaming up.
** I see nothing foolish in a more than likely
ending (if marriage is the end) of affairs. Miss
Beauchamp, if Sir Blaise had his way, would
be Lady Panmure now, I know. Nevertheless,
if she thinks fit to keep him in abeyance

C 2

till she can meet him on equal grounds, she
knows best." Mrs. Battle was panting, as well
she niiglit ; she was tight in the spider's
embrace.

Just so," he said slowly. " Two years
will only make a strong love stronger ; she
will have seasoned lier knight  eh, Mrs.
Battle?"

But Mrs. Battle was ready to cry. W/iat
bad she said ? Jesuit had she done ? Had
she committed herself, or Miss Beauchamp,
or Sir Blaise ? Alack ! alack ! What could
a daughter of Eve do, when a serpent came
and whispered at her ear ?

We are in sympathy. Airs. Battle," said
Mr. Cantilupe again.

I don't believe in sympathy so much as
in antipathy," said Mrs. Battle. " I know
there is something in antipathy." Then she
waited for a moment and balanced her next

remark as best she could, turning it over both
sides. " I have no authority for saying what
I have said about Miss Beauchamp and Sir
Blaise Panmure. Miss Beauchamp has no
confidantes."

AYe are a romantic pair, Mrs. Battle," said
Mr. Cantilupe ; " and, like all romantic people,
we breathe such life into our little romances
that wee look upon them as matured facts at
last. We have had a pleasant little talk,
purely platonic ; and now, good-bye."

Mrs. Battle had a tossing night, but she
was not projecting a " Jupiter of Elis," neither
was she a Phidias ; therefore she did not
receive anything in return for such restless
tossing, except a headache, which she denominated
" splitting " the following morning.

THE POPPIES.

We are tendencies, or rather sijmijtoms. . . . We touch, and
go, and sip the foam of many lives'

Six months had passed, and Sir Blaise had
seen nothing of Diana. He had remained at
Oxford without once coming down, promising
himself future rewards, when from his curacy
in the grimy East End he entered the earthly
paradise of her presence ; nevertheless, baskets
of costly fruits and groupings of rare flowers

came regularly from Whitefriars to M

Street.

Mr. Cantilupe was great on botany, and his
marvellous gift of language easily flowed into

picturesque channels, when describing the
different attributes of the rare specimens for
which Whitefriars was famous. He never
seemed conscious of the donor; and though
sometimes, when he caught Diana arranging
them in groupings which struck one as a
farther revelation in the mystic blending of
colour, and knew that for her those flowers
must carry a sweeter message than their
fragrance distilled, he would take a book,
and read silently.

One day she was banking the mantelpiece
with poppies, cultivated to such perfection
that they distanced their country cousins by
many leagues.

*' Did you ever hear the legend of the
poppy ? " said Mr. Cantilupe.

I believe those legends are all your own
coining, Mr. Cantilupe," said Diana ; *' for,
certainly, I have never come across them."

Mr. Cantilupe caught one of the gay
lovers up, and, glancing curiously at it,
commenced 

*' Flora was one day wandering up and
down our earth, followed by her maidens, and
scattering her seeds here and there, and
bending down to whisper to this flower her
message, and that its secret, when one of the
maidens said,

' Great Goddess, to-day, as we were
passing through a glade, I stayed behind
your train to speak to a maiden who was
weeping bitter tears. " Can I help you ? "
I said, bending over her ; "I am one of
Flora's Court. All who belong to her train
bave learnt the language of Love, and not a
flower but is related to this theme, which is
hymned by the gods above as well as by
mortals below." Then the maiden replied, " My
love has gone to the wars ; perchance he will

die. Oil ! well were it if I could die with
him." " The great goddess Flora will help
you," said I ; "in the form of a flower you
shall attend on him if wounded, and heal him."
And now, Goddess, what wilt thou do ? '

Then Flora turned her about, and smiled as
only Flora can smile  a smile which seemed
for you alone, and yet penetrated each one
with the same sense of the glad and gracious
beauty of this earth.

' What will I do 1 Why, thou hast said.
Call the maiden to our presence.'

' So, weeping bitterly, the maiden approached
the radiant Flora.

' Poor child of earth, what are these bitter
pains that you endure ? The love we wot of,
has nothing but ineffable bliss in its ascension
higher and higher ; for we are always going
on into a further understanding of its divine
essence.'

' If my love die, let me die responded the
maid.

' 'Tis a sad thing, is this earthly love,'
said Flora, addressing her maidens. ' Fora
few days the passion-flowers can breathe
into those poor children a glimpse of heaven ;
but how soon can those passion-flowers fade
and die ! It would be well if we could create
some blossoms which would blind these children
to all wounds gotten here, so that whatever ill
befall, if they carry this flower they will realise
but dimly their sorrow.'

Then all the Court answered, ' It were well,
Great Goddess ! ' So Flora struck her rod upon
the ground, and up sprang the beauteous poppy.

' Hidden in its scarlet leaves, haste thee to
thy lover,' said Flora to the weeping maid,
and lay these seeds upon his wound, and,
whatever ill from henceforth befall thee, never
part thee from the poppy.'

And so we see the poppy cure still
operating," said Mr. Cantilupe. " My Diego
has his poppies ; he is greater than his deformity.
Socrates had his poppies ; he could
jump upon all the fine speakers of his day,
though he was such a ' perish ' fellow.
Napoleon had his poppies when chained to
the rock ; he was so big a fellow that it had
taken all Europe to catch him ; but, assez de
Buonaparte''

Have you any sympathy with him % "
said Diana. She had arranged the poppies,
and had now stepped back to view her work
with the air of a connoisseur.

*' To be in sympathy, there must be a
corresponding channel of thought," said Mr.
Cantilupe. " He carried out his ambitions by
making a great noise ; a great noise acts like
wine on the masses."

He stuck at nothing to obtain his ends,"

said Diana. " He could sink to the key-hole ;
he was detestable."

'sit will take many centuries to make
another Buonaparte," said Mr. Cantilupe.
These men are not made to order. He was
a splendid actor, and actors should have no
hearts ; they should place a firm foot on the
fragile flowers which are the offspring of that
hot-house and charnel-house and receptacle for
dry rubbish  all in one."

Diana shivered. She had never come into
direct contact with the powers of evil. This
man understood the heart, as he understood
the head. He could investigate the evil that
was in him, and label each separate tendency
with appropriate names. She wondered if he
needed the poppies worse than Buonaparte.

From THAT MOMENT.

'* What comes from God to us, returns from us to God."

Sir Blaise was in London : he had accepted
a curacy at the East End.

'* Dear ! dear ! " said Mrs. Battle, as she
laid down the paper  " Dear ! dear ! Father
Yenables is one of the great preachers at St.
Veronica's. I have heard Miss Edwards
speak of him. She does the round of the
churches when she comes to town  half an
hour here, and a quarter of an hour there 
three churches in a morning. However, in
these matters I say every one must follow
out their own theological feelings  each one

lias to answer for themselves. Miss Beauchamp,
are you uot glad Sir Blaise Panraure
is ill town 1 Now he will come as he did at
Whitefriars. Now we shall be happy ! "

Diana clasped her arms above her head in
her favourite attitude when in repose, and
looked as Mrs. Battle had not seen her look for
six months.

'' Not so often as that, Mrs. Battle ; but we
shall see him."

"Maybe he will come and hear you recite,
Miss Beauchamp."

No, no," said Diana hastily. " I shall
be a prosy Philistine in a year and a half
now. Sir Blaise has nothing to do with this
Bohemianism."

Sir Blaise would be a proud man if he
heard you," said Mrs. Battle insinuatingly ;
as I said to j\lrs. Bovin, talent can t be hedged
in or walled round."

'sir Blaise does not like it," said Diana,
crimsoning ; "' but he is too generous to say so.
Still, in a year and a half it will be all over."

"So different to Mr. Cantilupe," said Mrs.
Battle, " who would have you exhibit yourself
in every capital in Europe. But he is a
foreigner, I know."

*' It's the difference of race, I dare say," said
Diana. " The Italians are born actors ; they
must act, it's a part of them ; they live in
public  they have no home-life. An Italian
dramatizes every common incident of his life.
If he buys a cabbage, he gives one the notion
he is enacting some great historic part ; he
buys his cabbage before the world. The very
dancing of the same man, a moment hence, to
the sound of the viola or mandolin, is the
expression of his poetic soul. There is a pose
for an artist, every second. Mrs. Battle, yon
and I will go to Italy some day."

"You won't want me when you go to Italy-next
time, I expect, Miss Beaucliamp," said
Mrs. Battle, looking as arch as it is possible
for a lady, without either eyelash or eyebrow,
to look. But Miss Beauchamp's reply was
lost ; for the door opened, and Sir Blaise
Panmure was announced.

We were talking about you, Sir Blaise,"
said Mrs. Battle excitedly ; '' we were reading
about you in the papers but a minute ago."
Her garrulous joy covered any agitation Diana
and he may equally have felt after so long
an absence ; and then she bustled away on
some imaginary errand ; for, as she kept on
repeating to herself as she pattered downstairs
in high glee, " In tact and discernment, I,
Martha Battle, am not lacking. '

Looking at him as he sat down, facing her,
Diana felt a sudden sense of strangeness. Sir
Blaise in shooting-coats, and Sir Blaise in a

stock and a coat to his heels, seemed so
different: she yearned for the shooting-coat.
She felt as if he were set apart and unapproachable,
in that very orthodox and demonstratively
appropriating garb. Sir Blaise, with
the quick sense of love, discerned it.

*' I seem strange to you," he said ; " but I'm
just the same erring man. Touch my hand,
and then you will feel my humanity."

He was laughing joyously.

It's a good thing to love and to be loved,
and to feel that the world has retained some
faint fragrance of Eden days yet about it.
It's a good thing to be sure that there is a
God above us, who is looking down upon us
with delight, and telling us that His joys are
with the sons of man.

It was thus Sir Blaise felt on that afternoon.
It was all very good. Joyous day,
known to many. There are few who can say,

VOL. III. D

I never had one joyous day ; one day, when
I knew it was good to be born, and that it
was a gracious thing to taste the sweetness
of life, to feel and know that immortality is
ours, and that all the joys of the world of
Art, and the world of Nature, and the things
of sense and sound, are ours by right of gift."

*' Do you remember, some months ago,
saying to me, ' Tell me of your life ? ' " said
Diana, catching the gladness of his eyes, and,
in the ineffable joy of seeing him again, losing
the first sense of strangeness. " This is now
what I am going to ask you. What of your
life ? How do you like your vicar ? And is
it not appalling to visit among these uncultivated,
unwashed people ? "

In the flesh, intolerable. In the spirit,
most blessed," said Sir Blaise, answering the
latter part of her question. " But you must
know Father Enables. I am workings under

him, because the rare nature of the man so
attracted me that I could not do otherwise.
I met him by chance at Oxford, and we
seemed mutually drawn to one another."

"Tell me all about him," said Diana.
Sketch him first outwardly, and then inwardly.
I have not yet attained those heights
when I can reverse those questions."

Picture Fra Angelica then," said Sir
Blaise, " mixing the pigments from the juice
of flowers to paint the Christ. He has just
such an expression. But then the constant
meditation on all that is pure and holy must
transfigure a face. He has done more to raise
the tone of public worship in our National
Church than any living Englishman. He has
brought all the influence which rank, wealth,
and culture inevitably bestow upon a man,
to beautify our churches, and to help us, by
the symbolism of a splendid worship, to enter

D 2

into the spirit of adoration with which the
Church triumphant, as they veil their faces
and bow their knees, enter into the majesty
of their surroundings.

Never, till I attended one of the services
at St. Veronica's, had I entered into the
depths of humiliation which the Christ bore
for us, in the mysterious robing of His transcendent
beauty in the form of man. As the
blending of voices rang out in one grand
harmony, through the beautiful fabric of St.
Veronica, the Nicene Creed, which has descended
to us in all its primitive simplicity,
and those mysterious sentences fell like a
message from the unseen world in our midst,
And was made man', I did not wonder that
each worshipper should fall upon his knees
at such abnegation.

Visit the haunts of sin in some thickly
populated parts of London, and then let that

sentence take possession of you, ' And was
made man.' I wondered I, too, had never
prostrated myself before in thankful amazement
at His feet, as tltis awful yet blessed
truth was repeated in our churches.

I know no man who makes you apprehend
whose presence you are in so marvellously as
Father Enables. Each worshipper seems lost
in the service, and helped by these external
aids to enter into the mysticism of our Faith.
Yet, for all this, no party can claim Father
Enables ; for he abhors, as surely we should
abhor, party spirit. His preaching is very
simple. One great fact seems always before
him when in the pulpit  eternity. So at St.
Veronica's we have a combination rarely met
with. Preaching which, in its sincerity and
simplicity, draws you to the Cross ; and yet
a beautiful service, which is, after all, but
one of the outward expression of our Faith."

What is the church like ? " said Diana.

It is beautiful In the midst of surrounding
squalor it stands up to witness
of heaven. It is rich with pictures, not only
in stained glass, but on canvas. We have
in niches some copies, which, though they
cannot catch the ' something ' which was
breathed into Fra Angelica or Raphael as
they painted their conceptions, still are admirably
good copies ; and often. Father Yenables
tells me, men and women, hopeless and tattered,
during the daytime creep in and stand
wondering before them, as some faint notion of
what Christ is as very Man, is represented
to them. Tis a sermon more potent than
words to them."

"The village homes are progressing towards
completion' said Diana. " I went over to see
them when I was last at Beauchamp."

Assail Sir Blaise looked at Diana with that

sudden revelation of a great love, which needs
no words when this revelation through the
spirit throws poor words into the cold shade.
And this time he would not let go the hand
he had caught, as he said 

Diana ! may I tell you all now ? But
what have I to tell ? You know it fall.
From that moment in the library at White-friars,
when you sat so still before me with
the old vellum-bound MS. in your hand, and
the sun playing about your hair and burnishing
it with gold, you have been to me the
embodiment of those dreams which, until I
met you, had never taken shape, but which
had haunted me as the vision of the one
woman whom I could call * wife.' But words
fall away from you ; for words cannot express
you."

Bending down, Diana's lips touched the
bronzed hand of Sir Blaise, which yet held

hers. It was an act of homage ; but this was
Diana. Minslinoc with her love was a oreat
reverence ; had she not seen and believed that
the true Shekinah was man ?

But she did not answer. She was drinking
in the full measure of her joy, and such
moments do not come again. Other moments,
perhaps, of joy in the ripeness of completion,
but not the same moment.

Nothing in circumstance can really repeat
itself ; for we of to-day are not as we were
yesterday. The sun weill rise tomorrow and
kiss the same sea, but not the same man.
He has gathered fresh thoughts and nobler
impulses, or baser desires and retrograding
tendencies. We are approaching nearer to the
spring-time of our eternity, or stealing back
to the mire of our far-off country.

At last Diana spoke. " It won't seem long
now  it did before. In one year and a

half my promise will be fulfilled, and until
then we will hold our precious secret in our
keeping."

A shade had crossed the brow of Sir Blaise ;
but Dianass wish on this point must be his.
He said no more.

AGGRESSIVE LANDLORDS.

Womcm is the lesser man, and all thy passions matched with
mine
Are as moonlight unto sunlight , and. as later unto wine."

LocKSLEY Hall.

Diego' said Mr. Cantilupe one day, in a
jocular tone, " you must be quite a rich man
by this time. The ' pieces ' multiply, like
everything else, pretty quickly in good keeping.
But there is not much to be learnt from the
consideration of the ' pieces.' A monied man
is not necessarily a well-read man. Now, I
think you ought to commence to read some
subject, always with a view to the increase

of the ' pieces.' You follow me, Diego 'i But,
bah !  you outrun me.

Shakespeare, you are aware, Diego, had a
good part of his plays written by those who
had caught his spirit  this is my belief ; and
as for the great painters, it is hard to know
who rounded the limbs of their extraordinary
conceptions.

Take the  Venus de' Medici ' ; how many
sculptors may have moulded that form, which
is the wonder of the world ? You remember
the * Venus de' Medici ' in the Uffizi Gallery,
Diego ? I think I showed you every Apollo,
Bacchus, Mercury, and Faun of note in
Florence.

*' You have a thought beyond the ' pieces,'
Diego. Though I suppose if I could see you
at your games, when I, for instance, am fast
asleep, I should be inclined to think that old
Pluto had bewitched you. Those antique

sculptors understood the beauty of form. Then,
Diego, do you remember Michael Angelo's
Fates.' Very grim and pitiless they looked,
did they not ? But sympathy won't do when
we are cutting into fate. I feel in a talkative
mood to-night, Diego. Come and sit down
opposite me. Pooh ! Diego, sit down comfortably
 we are brothers."

It was evening, and Mr. Cantilupe turned
the full glare of the electric globe (which was
fixed on a movable stand) on the sphinx-like
features of the dwarf, and himself withdrew
into the shade.

Think you, Diego, if a living woman
appeared before one, the counterpart of the
Venus de' Medici,' with a form shaped like
a flower (poetic license, Diego), think you a
tussle with those grim ' Fates ' of Michael
Angelo's would be a likely result ?

"The 'Venus de' Medici' is unlike all the

other ' Senses,' remember, Diego. Bah !
What leering, odious creatures they seemed
after the intellectual purity of this Venus, who
stands aside, apart from all other creations !
I remember well that I stood before her, with
my hat in my hand ; she seemed a living
woman cut into chaste marble.

' Well, we will leave this Venus in the
Uffizi Gallery ; we won't interfere with her.
Let the sculptors try their best, there will be
but one ' Venus de' Medici ' in marble ; perfect
creations don't repeat themselves. These antique
sculptors understood the beauty of form ;
the sculptors of to-d-xy are cutters of stone or
moulder of clay  nothing more.

Then, Diego, do you remember our ditto
the Bartering Gallery, and how long we
stood before the ' Beatrice Cenci,' wondering
what secret those eyes strove to hide ? You
have seen the masterpieces of the world.

>

Diego, and have doubtless profited by them ;
and now I want to enlarge your mind yet
further.

'' Art is wonderful, even when it expresses
what is sinful to look upon. It brings us in
contact with the supernatural, for some dark
angel stood by to guide the chisel or brush 
white-robed as Lucifer when he clothes himself
in light.

After our visit to Italy, Diego, some five
years ago, you remember we went to Ireland,
and how destitute of artistic conceptions, for
all its green, that unhappy country looked tous,
with its gaunt buildings and bare streets.
Our interest in those people was superficial,
for we knew nothing of the ills which drove
them to desperate deeds. There was anarchy
then in the bud, but we have it in the flower
now.

I think, Diego, you should study this

subject of Home Rule, Land League, Parallelism,
Fenianism, and Agrarian outrages ; know the
entire lingo, and be able to enter as intelligently
into the spirit of these Celts as into the ethics
of Art-talk.

I am ambitious for you, Diego ; you are
not half rich enough yet. I dare say those
money-boxes of yours will hold a great many
more pieces yet. You won't have anything todo
with our fifty per cents., so the 'pieces'
don't run the same chance with you as they
do with us ; still, it's pleasant to keep what
we love close at hand  eh, Diego ? Pleasant
to the touch and eye. You understand me,
Diego "? But, bah ! As I said before  you
outrun me."

I understand you," said Diego with an
ugly leer.

'' It's pleasant to be understood," said Mr.
Cantilupe, stretching his hands before the

wood fire. The flame seemed to leap upward
more gaily at the sight of those long,
thin, 'transparent fingers of his, as if such fuel
looked dainty. '* Pleasant not to have to say
what one has to say, in bald, staring words,
without a background of foliage to set them
ofi". Pleasant to know one is conversing with
an intelligence which outruns your own.

It was a fortunate day when I met you,
Diego. Many years ago now since we met,
and were mutually pleased with one another.
That little organ of yours had a sweet tone,
for all its huskiness, and the pathos of your
friend Petterini's face I shall not soon forget.
You always addressed Petterini in the lingua
Toscana. You brought him from Siena, you
said. You were very unhappy when Petterini
died, Diego. I really think you liked him
better than the pieces. We grow attached to
even a monkey, sometimes ; don't we, Diego ? "

'' I liked Petterini because lie picked up the
scud," said Diego, chuckling. " Petterini was
oft' with his cap to the ladies like any cavalier,
and he had a way of puckering his brow  the
cunning; one  that sent them off* a-lauorhino- :
and get a laugh out of a lady, and the scud
are sure to follow. Yes, yes, the chattering
one ! I would give him warm shelter when
he did his work well. And he would look up
in my face so anxiously to know if he had
gathered enough for that day. And if I smiled,
he knew, the clever one  he knew and would
off" with his cap three times, and the puckers
would all smooth out, and the weight of the
world seemed lifted oft' his shoulders. No
Premier could look more worried than Petterini,
over a last Budget, if the scud did not flow in.
I liked him well, the cunning one."

'' You buried the organ and Petterini together,
I think, Diego ? " said Mr. Cantilupe. " It was

VOL. III. E

a strange fancy of yours, that Petterini should
rest on the top of the old organ he had sat and
danced many a year upon  a pretty conceit, I
call it."

"Yes, I buried them together," said Diego.
I've a bit of ground not quite so extensive as
an Irish landlord's " (here he leered), '' but a
bit of ground I can call my own, out of London,
some distance. There lies Petterini and the old
organ."

Well, Diego," said Mr. Cantilupe, rising
and pacing the room, '' that old organ of
yours had many a tune in its lumbering old
case. I remember one now  it was out of
some opera, and first called my attention to
you, as you stood with the snow falling all
round you in Regent Street. It was a love-song.

"We are in the midst of a love-game
now, as I said before. We want to carry off
the ' Venus de' Medici,' not from the Uffizi

Gallery, but her like in flesli-tirits ; and the
game plays itself out slowly, all too slowly,
for an ardent lover such as the Duce di
Cantilupe.

But we must not quarrel with our friend
Time. Remember, Diego, 'tis the gracious
beauty of this living Venus we are to possess !
We have always coveted the rare, the difficult
to obtain  all here is rare.

Look at these amber goblets. How many
months, think you, before I obtained them ?
Seven  seven months of . strategy, not ill
spent. See here, Diego, when this ' Venus de'
Medici' is mine, I will charge you in a
bumper of red wine out of this amber goblet.
I little thought when I obtained them I
should drink to a bride. Most things I've
obtained with less difficulty ; most things I
can obtain as quickly as electricity operates.

' But Cleopatra drank to Antony in one of

\\\\

RS\1

oT \a\<*o\s

these goblets. Bewitchment lurks in the
amber  an indefinable spell. Poor Antony-held
the one, and Cleopatra the other. Picture
the scene, Diego ! War, conquest, duty,
all buried in the red wine in the amber
goblet, as he drank that draught which wrought
his ruin.

'seven months' strategy to obtain a pair
of amber goblets, and two years' strategy
to obtain this modern Diana ! Now, Diego,
I won't keep you longer from the ' pieces ' ;
it's getting late, and you have to count
over your scud. Begin your study to-morrow
You will find a number of books and pamphlets
on the subject awaiting you ; and, thanks to
my training, you know English more grammatically
than your native lingua Toscana. We may
never need all this political lingo to come to our
aid ; on the other hand, we may not be able to
win our love-game without such a comprehensive

grasp oil the ills and woes of Ireland as will
compel us to assist them from the iron heel of
their aggressive landlords.

"And now, Diego, good night. Sleep welland
here are some more ' pieces ' to build
up the golden god."

Chuckling and leering with equal vehemence,
Diego shuffled from his master's
presence.

A SHEFFIELD LADY.

'the flower
That blows a globe of after arrowlets."

London had become Diana's home now. She
only resorted to Beauchamp during vacation.
Her recitations at Cosmos Hall drew larger
audiences every week.

Theatres seem tame after one has been to
hear The Beauchamp " was the oft-repeated
opinion of Mr. Savage.

Study Miss Beauchamp, if you would
know how to dress, how to speak, how to
move, and how to cover sestheticism with
glory ; she is the exponent of the Beautiful."

And his obedient disciples thronged the
doors of Cosmos Hall, and: sate drinking in
this knowledge of how to dress, how to speak,
how to move, and how to robe asceticism
in a garment less ostentatiously green and
yellow.

One morning, Felicia Novello, accompanied

by Francisca Masters, appeared at M

Street. Diana was deep in thought, as usual,
studying the " Faerie Queen " ; for there was
to be a selection from " Ye Ancient Poets "
that evening, and Diana always threw herself
into the spirit of the times, as well as the spirit
of the author.

Olde English mood," she had said to Mrs.
Battle that morning at breakfast, and Mrs.
Battle had glanced over the urn at her, and
said, "That's right, Miss Beauchamp ! Be
thoroughly English. There is no nation can
beat us in poetry, or what not."

Francisca Masters, after embracing Diana,
held her at arm's-length and regarded her.

Miss Beau champ ! subtle Miss Beauchamp !
So you have run ofi' with our bonnie Panmure.
The papers are full of you again. It was
Mr. Cantilupe last time, and now it's Sir
Blaise. Don't betray me when you are Lady
Panmure, and tell Sir Blaise how I loved
him ; it will be very naughty of you if you
do ; and I'm getting my trousseau ready, for
I really have succumbed to the protestations of
Major Clintock, and am going to be married
next month."

Now, Francisca," said Diana, calmly surveying
her from her position at arm's length,
did I not tell you once before. No sanctuary
intimacies for me ? I am in no way interested
in any information which I do not directly
authenticate."

Francisca coloured to the roots of her hair.

' I have tripped and gone backwards, but
I believe our blue-blues was crossed somewhere
a century or two ago. There was an
intermarriage with Sheffield cutlery ; so forgive
me. I lay all the blame on the lady
from Sheffield. Bless her steels and bones."

Felicia gave way to laughter, and Diana
followed on, whilst Francisca threw herself
into a chair and extended her foot ; whether
for admiration or the reverse, she soon let
her observers know.

*' The lady from Sheffield also handed me
down this foot. Now, poor dear Clintock has
one accentuated weak point, and that is a
good foot ! He began to talk, soon after I was
engaged to him, about old Greek feet, and of
course I saw he was a connoisseur. He said : 

' Take statuary  the first toe is as long
as the big toe in a Greek foot proper ; the
ankle is exquisitely sleider,J:liifoot long.'

Looking at him as coquettishly as my
Wellingtonian nose would allow, I said :

I'll order my trousseau dresses to be made
to cover my toes then, Clinton, for there is
nothing of the old Greek proper about my
feet."

' Don't wear high heels,' he said, ' and
don't attempt anything with them. Get a
good broad heel and a flat sole, and then
anybody who may chance to see them will
consider that you are going in for hygiene,
and it will be all right.'

And that is the boot ! Now what do you
think of it ? "

My dear Francisca," said Felicia, *' a little
friendly advice is not a bad thing ; take mine
You will be a perfect object, before two
months are over your head, if you give way
to these crude suggestions of uninformed men.
Thei wear inverted chimney-pots and fussy

frock-coats and bushes, and squaw feathers,
and goodness knows what. And tve say nothing
to them, but bestow our unlimited admiration
on these dignified appurtenances to the art of
Peace and War. Major Clintock has commenced
at your feet, he will ascend to your
crown by-and-by. Come to ' Papillon's ' at
once, and be chausseed properly."

I really think I will," said Francisca,
thrush all the same I wish I had those
Greek toes and slender ankles. I stepped
out in happy ignorance till Clintock took the
dash out of those inherited members. It's
really cruel to let a Sheffield lady get into
one's family  there's no end to the mischief
she will entail upon one. Mamma never
mentions her without tears  she was something
dreadful, I believe."

What of your book," said Diana ; " is the
partnership dissolved ? "

'* Felicia will make a much better book
than I shout," said Francisca ; " with her
the book will make itself  she is oroinff to
Italy to Write it. I tell her she had far
better stay in England and take what comes
to hand. Study Betty, the cow keeper, and
write of her. Look at George Eliot, how
she weaved her grand sentiments into the
commonplace lives of most of her heroes and
heroines. We associate with them quite happily.
She was a fine etcher, exquisitely fine. You
must look into her sentences and peer long,
before the deep meaning and widely branch -
ino thought, which characterize each one of
her finely worked up figures, come to be appreciated."


I think she wrought her books much as
Cellini wrought his wonderful designs in
gold," said Diana.

She was not prolific," said Francisca.

*' In comparison with other well-known writers,
her books are few."

I contend that genius is prolific," said
Diana, " and talent is not. Talent produces
more mellow fruits. There is often an autumnal
luxuriance about the fruit of talent,
while genius has glaring defects and yet
possesses something, that in its unsearchable
beauty allures you to follow after it through
untranslatable regions of thought. It's ."


I wonder," said Felicia, standing up, and
assuming her favourite pose  hand turned
upwards on the hip, " whether I have talent,
or genius, or perseverance ; whether I shall
live to enjoy my fame, or whether I shall
look down from a planet and see the fruit of
my labour ? I was caught by the mystery of
the planets the other night.

I was staying with some friends in Hampshire,

and escaping from the inanities of the
drawing-room, I went out into the dark. The
trees stood so still in the perfect beauty of
their nakedness (leaves cover up the beauty
of their proportions, however good for shade
and lovely for the play of light they maybe),
and the stars, set in deepest blue, were
shining down upon me with their strange
meaning, which no sage has yet deciphered.

'' I thought, ' All is mystery, inside and out.
How is it that poets, authors, or philosophers
have the enterprise to try and decipher either
the anatomy of the spirit, the anatomy of the
body, or the anatomy of a tree ? '

Elevated and dispirited, I crept back into
the drawing-room, and found the party waltzing.
They really looked, as they hugged each
other round the room, like a number of
marionettes jumping about to the strings that
pulled them. I washed we could dance as

Corne danced before her audience, with the
supple grace which showed to what a wonderful
range of thought in motion these supple
bodies of ours can be trained. Any way and
any how, rather than this hop, glide, or bob,
which conveys a notion of heat without fire,
or smoke without flame, if such anachronisms
are possible."

It's all very fine, Felicia," said Francisca ;
but I can give you an instance to prove
how much good a spin round a room can do
you. I was very low after Clint rock's discourse
on the old Greek foot  I looked at my little
short stump with the Sheffield ankle, and
hated it. In the evening I went to a dance.
In the whirl, and in an attempt to keep my
feet on the most slippery piece of wax I ever
danced on, I came down with a crash, and felt
so pleasantly exhilarated that I recovered ray
equanimity. Nevertheless, we will go to

Papillon's, and see what can be done with
our ' poor feet.'

By-the-by, Diana, in two years or less,
I hear that you are going to quit the
platform. I don't suppose it's a stage,
though you are as full of the drama as the
earth is of electricity. It is said that you
have signed an engagement. Naughty Mr.
Cantilupe ! It's well known that Cosmos Hall
is this own, every niche and stone of it. Do
you think that he would lay the floor with
lapis lazuli (a fortune in itself) for somebody
else's benefit ? Your stage is arranged exactly
like a room in an old Italian palace. But it
is said that Mr. Cantilupe is a duce, only
won't owen it, for some reason or other. He
has helped you amazingly, my dear, though,
and it will seem rather hard to him to see
bonnie Panmure gather the rose we can all
see he covets.

No doubt he will throw himself into a
trance, and mesmerize his grief into the land
of oblivion. But here I am slipping backwards
again. Oh, that Sheffield lady, who
did destroy our breed, to mamma's consternation
and to my unhappy experience."

Good-bye, Francisca," said Diana, taking
up the '* Faerie Queen " with unruffled brow.
Take care of the Sheffield toes when
you come in contact with the six Misses
Clintock."

But Francisca had vanished in her own
noise, and only Felicia turned round to say
smilingly : 

Major Clintock can t keep her in order a
bit ; he won't try, I suppose, until he is
married. He does nothing but smile and
say, *' Haw, don't you know ! ' except when he
gets on to the Greek foot, or coaches Colonel
Trelawny, who believes in his superiority ;

VOL. III. F

and nothing sharpens one up so much as
another person's belief in one's superiority.
You believe in me, I will conquer the
world."

ON THE FLOW.

*' I said, what better home shall this heart seek ? Here let me
dwell for aije

' Prais'd he the fathomless Universe,
For life and joy, and for objects and knowledge curious,
And for love, sweet love. But praise ! praise ! praise !
For the sure enjoining arms of cool enfolding deaths

Every Saturday afternoon Sir Blaise found

his way to M Street ; but his appearance

there in no way kept Mr. Cantilupe from
displaying his long and slender person on
the lounge, which occupied one corner of
the room, and invited an elegant ease of
attitude possible only for one of Southern race,

F 2

when it would have been truly ungraceful,
and even impolite, if attempted by the burly
proportions or vigorous asceticism of a
Sooner.

** He had better lie down on the hearth-rug,"
Mrs. Battle said one clay. " He is an
actor, if ever there was one. He has not a
bone in his body, I feel sure. Perhaps he
was a tumbler in Italy, a fellow who went
about with half a dozen other fellows on his
head and one on the palm of each hand ; and
if he happened to take a spite against one of
his troupe, he would topple him over  by the
merest accident, of course."

'' Mrs. Battle, I am weary of endeavouring
to curb your sinful expressions and unmitigated
resentment," said Diana.

It is useless," said Mrs. Battle, " for my
dislike is on the increase.

 He knows very well that Sir Blaise comes

on Saturday afternoons, from the midst of Lis
work, to see the apple of his eye ; and will he
allow such pleasure to Sir Blaise ? No !

There he half sits, half lies on that couch,
like a panther ready to spring. It makes me
nervous. But I really do grow more nervous
every day, Miss Beauchamp. Those eyes of
Mr. Cantilupe, for ever fixed on either you
or me ; and seeing, as I can see perfectly
well, that he is not taking this tremendous
interest in you for nothing.

I know little enough about men ; I don't
pretend to be up to them, or up in the ways
of the world. Poor dear Mr. Battle was a veri
simple sort of man, wedded to his ' hops ' and
me ; it was not in him to be unfathomable.
The few people with whom I have been
thrown (till lately), have been all of this type
thoroughly English."

*' And now," said Diana, " you are beginning

to extend your experiences  to discover that
everybody is not turned out after the same
pattern."

Then she continued, half petulantly 
You know I have signed for two years.
You are aware of all the kindness Mr. Cantilupe
has shown me ; and it does seem really too
bad, when I am trampling down my own
inclinations, to upset me with these constant
forebodings. You have goaded me to speak
at last, and I icill speak ! Do I not long for
the day, when, with Beauchamp free, I can
welcome the dearest hope of my life, to take
its abiding place in my heart  when I can
translate the sweetest dream that was ever
whispered to a mortal ear, into the sacred
charm of fruition ! "

Diana's tone had risen, the floodgates were
open, and in the onward sweep of passion the
tension which had at first shown itself in

petulance was merged in the utterance of her
hitherto pent-up but dearest desires.

"Is it nothing twice to have laid aside my
love for the attainment of an object which,
having dedicated myself to achieve, I have
striven at all cost to clings to ? Is it nothing
day by day to long to give expression to my
love, in the only way I would care to, and yet
to forego it ? Two weary years stand between
my joy and me. Is it nothing ? "

Tears had welled up in Diana's eyes  tears
of mingled sentiments. She had laid aside
for the time being her love for the carrying
out of a purpose ; and Mrs. Battle must befor
ever crying out that Mr. Cantilupe would
do her some ill. And beneath the petulance
caused by her remonstrances was the warning
note that he himself had sounded, when he
had told her in those words which had often
recurred to her memory  that not only could

she draw all that was best to herself in a
Nature, but all that was worst. ,

What did he  could he  mean ? Had love
on its other side, hate ? Was it a reversible
thing this sweet yet terrifying love, on which
in some sort the very world revolves on its
axis ?

Diana had never shaped the impressions
which in an indefinite spectral form lurked at
the bottom of her outburst ; none the less, she
was conscious it would have been well for her
if she had never signed the paper  if she had
given up her ambition, and yielded to the higher
dictates of her love.

Never, perhaps, had Mrs. Battle looked better
pleased than at this moment. She rose from her
chair with widely-spread arms, and caught Diana
in her ample embrace.

Dear heart ! dear heart ! you have made
me glad. You are attached to Sir Blaise.

How could I doubt it ? You will he Lady
Panmure, You will live at Whitefriars. You
are sure of his love  the love of the noblest,
most perfect man that the world has seen since
the days of Adam I guessed it all, it's true ;
but guesswork is like poking about for your
spectacles in a dark room. I have knocked
myself against this piece of furniture and that,
and at last I have found my ' specs.' I can
see. And now let me tell you what I ventured
to say to Mr. Cantilupe, and ever since have
been so frightened for fear I said too much.
He came and sat down beside me, and commenced
his clever talk, all about you. And at
last I said how I thought it would be ; and
he pretended to be as pleased as myself. Test
his pleasure, by getting him to permit you to
rescind his engagement."

Gently disengaging herself from the ample
embrace in which Mrs. Battle yet detained

her, Diana rose aud paced the room. For, like
Mr. Cantilupe, she, too, found a quicker outlet
for thoughts of action in rapid motion.

Pride was weakening, ambition paling ;
whilst love, like a rosy cloud, hovered overhead,
only waiting to catch her up into the
mystic dreaminess of those well-trodden, yet
ever untrodden, lands.

He professed to be truly interested in her;
there were doubtless mutual advantages in the
compact. But, then, Mr. Cantilupe was rich.
Would he let her, after all, forego the recitations
?

When some cherished scheme is being
relinquished, even for the attainment of one
yet more cherished, there are moments
needed for reflection  for studying each well-known
feature of the scheme that had claimed
us, before it pales off the canvas of our lives
and passes away into the mists of memory.

She had told Sir Blaise that not even a great
love would make her forego her ambition; and
now she was ready to forego anything to enter
into the full measure of this longed-for union.

The triumphs of her career, the throb which
she could awaken at the heart of her audience
by the force of those dramatic impersonations,
which had broken in upon the dead level of
their conventional existences, and often set free
a hundred sentiments which had hitherto lain
dormant or unheeded in the mental cells of
their experiences,  this she could cast from
her, without one backward glance, for one beat
from the heart of Sir Blaise as she gave way to
her desire to tell him all he was to her.

"Test his interest in you," reiterated Mrs.
Battle. " He will be here this afternoon, as sure
as the clock ticks."

'' So will Sir Blaise," said Diana, half smiling.

To-morrow, then," said Mrs. Battle ; '' I

get SO confused now-a-days that I forget the
days of the week. I thought to-day was
Friday. Just as if Mr. Cantilupe could not
leave the field clear for Sir Blaise one day in
the week. I've taken such a dislike to that
lounge over there, Miss Beauchamp, I assure
you, that when I am coming into this room
sometimes in the dusk, I'm ready to scream
out like the paper-boys. I fancy I see Mr.
Cantilupe sitting on it."

What news ! " she continued, breaking out
in broken sentences expressive of her great
contentment  "what fulfilment of unspoken
wishes ! For I don't think I have even hinted
my hopes, Miss Beauchamp, always fearing
the influence of that serpent-like man, with
his Nero-like tendencies and his artist nature.
He is enamelled with poetry and connoisseurship,
and a high state of cultivation, if
you like ; but break through the enamel,

and you would say, * I like not his complexions'"


But Diana turned round in some warmth.
*' It seems so ungrateful to listen to such
suppositions  I cannot hear them." And then
the momentary blaze vanished in a smile, as she
said :

Nero is added on now to the various
disguises in which Mr. Cantilupe appears
before you. However, I suppose your imagination
must run the length of its tether. It has
taken you back to the days when you were
finished off with a rap on the knuckles."

I've heard so much about Art since I have
lived with you," said Mrs. Battle. " 'Tis a
part of you. It is like the perfect finish of
your toilet. It decorates you like a rose in
your hair. tis like the beautiful carving on
a stately building. But on him 'tis a mere
cloak to hide deformity."

I don't tliiuk even Mr. Cantilupe could
excel you in metaphors," said Diana. " We
shall see what he says to my proposition."

And then both ladies stopped speaking ; for
Sir Blaise, followed by Mr. Cantilupe, had
entered the room.

FICTION BECOMES FACT.

Our being is no shadow of tim all',

No vacant dream.
No fable of the things that never were,

But only seem.
'Tissue of meaning as of mystery,
Tht strange and solemn may that meaning he

They had met at the hall-door, and as they
had stood exchano-inor the common civilities
or courtesies of life, how difficult to any
ordinary onlooker it would have been to
believe what ties in reality linked these two
men to each other  the tie of a common love,
and on o?ie side the tie of a deadly hate.
Yet Mr. Cantilupe smiled, and made way

for Sir Blaise up the staircase, and even
insisted on handing him tea, persistently
putting aside the offices of Diana's black
page  another of Mr. Cantilupe's importations.


There is twice the style in a black skin,
Miss Beauchamp," he had said ; ' don't have
an English buttons. I know of the very boy
you require."

And Diana, to the dismay of Mrs. Battle,
had yielded  partly because she agreed about
the black skin, and partly to save trouble.

"You look tired. Sir Blaise," Mr. Cantilupe
said, furtively watching the sudden droop
of Diana's eyelids* at this haphazard remark.
Love, on the flow of its passion, finds the
thought of the Nemesis unendurable. It is
garbed with perennial strength  it has plucked
the fruit of the tree of life  it will live forever.


I think Sir Blaise could have a round
with Goliath this minute," said Mrs. Battle
brusquely. " Run at him, jump on him, and
cut off his head' 

"Now don't abuse the Philistines," said
Diana. "My soubriquet, Francisca Masters
tells me, in Leominster, is 'Miss Beauchamp :
a Philistine'"

"That's Miss Edwards's doing," said Mrs.
Battle. " She reads Matthew somebody or
other a great deal, and these clever men give
the edge to her tongue."

Father Enables was coming with me this
afternoon," said Sir Blaise, " only at the last
moment he was detained,. He desires to
make your acquaintance, and now he won't
be able to come till I return from Ireland.
I have to go over there for a couple of
months. It's particularly awkward  just as
I had commenced work. But I can't

VOL. III. G

avoid inherited responsibilities. The only-thing
to do is to make a good use of
them. Father Enables is full of schemes,
and we are going to lay them all before
you.

Sir Blaise's tone had a proprietary ring
in it that was intoxicating Mrs. Battle ; she
caught up a piece of embroidery and commenced
to stitch furiously, and glanced furtively
at Mr. Cantilupe, who had assumed
his actor pose on the lounge, apparently
indifferently interested.

*' Father Enables," continued Sir Blaise
enthusiastically, " has gigantic hopes. He
reminds me of one of the Crusaders  nothing
daunts him  nothing."

If he would only not call himself Father,"
said Mrs. Battle. *' 1 don't like that ; it's
contrary to my theological training to like it.
I don't like it  fathers and Sisters and Brothers.

I closet like it. I can't like it. AVliy should
I like it ? "

"Why, indeed?" said Diana, looking at Sir
Blaise, and smiling.

I wonder," said Mr. Cantilupe, glancing
at Sir Blaise, '' that you have not become a
friar, like your ancestor. Sir Sholto."

These are not the days for monasteries,"
said Sir Blaise, turning round and facing Mr.
Cantilupe, with vigorous purpose animating
the massive beauty of his features. "These
are the days for rallying round a standard,
which, though battered and in fragments from
the great fight which she has fought, yet waves
over Christendom with her ancient glory, and
defies the world."

Mr. Cantilupe turned the leaves of the book
he held. Sir Blaise was animated with zealand
blessed with a human love. Mr. Cantus
was neither.

G 2

It's easy to talk, and talk well, when things
run smoothly with us  when we inhale the
fragrance of life  when we find it good to
be born. A true faith will yet rally round
the standard, though the ground bears nothing
but thorns and thistles, and such flowers as
grow in the path seem to distil no fragrance.
Yet the animation, the glad light in the eye,
the vigour, is lacking.

I used to think it such a shame when
flowers Averse never seen in our churches,"
said Diana. " I find such moral teaching in
them. Mr. Cantilupe is a great believer in
them, too. He thinks they are things full of
life  living, growing, and ever changing with
ourselves. He can relate legends by the hour
about flowers."

But Mr. Cantilupe for once avoided Diana's
eyes, which were seeking his with a friendly
smile in their expressive pupils.

You know," said Sir Blaise, *' that De
Dance says, ' To love Nature with an infinite
tenderness is the characteristic of a pure mind ' ;
and St. Bernard insists on the association of
the love of Nature and the love of God ; and
maitre Mullet says, live with flowers  ' Et
vous sentirez saisi du plus tendre interest pour
cette charmante famille des fleurs dont les
auteurs, dont les passions, dont les involon-
tares et innocentes fastnesses, dont les sentiments
vous sont derouills.' "

De Dance was an interesting man," said
Mr. Caatilupe, suddenly rising ; " he was oneby
himself. When he was young, he was old ;
he had great ideas, and great ideas will make
the youngest older than the oldest ; besides, lie
had a past  the skull of the woman he loved
so well was found in his cell at La Trappe.
Here was love in one of its strange forms. De
Eanc you see, was satisfied with a skull. I

think I should hardly care for such an anatomical
study. But I must be off. I hope you
will have a pleasant visit to Ireland, Sir Blaise ;
keep out of the way of bullets. Poor Lord

F , how fresh that affair is yet in our

memories ! "

Smiling; and bowing;, he closed the door
equally on himself and l\Irs. Battle.

Ah ! Mrs. Battle, I think our little romance
works well. I think fiction is moulding into
fact. Not often the case, for fiction is, as a
rule, such a j)ut-together-out-of-one's-head sort
of thing."

But Mrs. Battle only smiled as she trotted
past him up the staircase  smiled quite lovingly
on him, for her.

As the door closed, Diana rose, and holding
out her hands towards Sir Blaise, said 
I cannot bear it. You must not go to
Ireland ! "

At the sound of her voice, and, more, the
fright in her eyes, Sir Blaise sprang to his
feet, and caught her out-stretched hands in
his, and their lips met

WHAT WORLD IS THIS ?

Felice ter et amplius
Quos irriipta tenet cojmla"  Horace.

The hours sped, but neither Diana nor Sir
Blaise took note of time. Surely love must
be for ever foreboding an eternal parting, or
why this covetous counting up of minutes as
if tomorrow would never dawn, and they two
sit side by side, telling out the story which
has been spoken in every language, and strung
to every instrument, and transcribed in a
thousand ways since the world began ?

You tuo/il go to Ireland then, Blaise ? "
Diana said at last.

She had come back to her fears, though the
substance of them seemed gone, while her hands
were held in that powerful clasp of Sir Blaise.

Yes, I will," he said, laughing ; " but we
will oro together. Will this do, Di ? "

Diana laughed back. Tlds was to live : had
she ever really lived before ?

After all, existence is only grasped at all
but by contrasts. Perhaps we could never construe
Divine Love properly unless we had
dimly apprehended it in some human form.
We should never thoroughly enter into joy
unless we knew something of misery. Contrast
is the strange mirror in which we trace
out the lineaments of our experiences.

'' I can easily put off my business there fora
couple of months," he continued ; " and then
I can introduce my wife to the tenants, and
they will run and kiss your shadow, Di. You
can't think how really warm-hearted they are."

"But, Blaise, the recitations ! Mr. Cantilupe
counts on my attendance at the Cosmos fora
year and a half more. He counted on my
ambition when he made his proposition."

"We have slain Goliath," said Sir Blaise;
Mrs. Battle's words have come true ; " and
they both laughed, looking into one another's
faces joyously.

If he insists, what shall I do, Blaise ? "

He won't insist. But even if he should,
you shall carry on the recitations as Lady
Panmure, and never mind what the world
says. After all, you are only putting higher
thoughts and nobler ideals into the minds of
your audience."

You do love me, Blaise," she said, stooping
to pick up a flower which had fallen from her
belt. She did not want him to see the gathering
tears.

Is this the way to prove it ? " he said.

turning lier face towards him, and fondly

regarding it. *' I wish I could prove it some

other way. What would I not do for you ? It

seems too great a gift to have your love. I

am such a stupid fellow in comparison with

such a man as Cantilupe. He can talk to you

of hundreds of things I know nothing about ;

but, Di, 1 have been studying all those topics

which interest you. My wife shall find I can

talk about Art, too. I constantly say to

myself, ' Di is an artiste ; I shan't forget

this.' "

You will forget everything about her,

Blaise, except this one thing  that she loves

you ; and that her love is not limited by

time or eternity, for there will never be an

end to it."

*' No, darling," he said reverently. " There

will never be an end, for true love is immortal.

Sometimes I wonder if there ever was a

becjininnc; to our love. I seem to have
known you all my life in dreams ; and when
I was first conscious of my love, it seemed
like waking up to find that this dream was
no dream, but a living, blissful reality."

You won't mind the recitations, Blaise ? "
said Diana, again going back to her fear of
Mr. Cantilupe.

I won't mind anything," said he, ruffling
her hair over her brow fondly and laughingly,
"so long as you are Lady Panmure. Now,
are you satisfied ? "

And as Diana's lips met his, she thought
she was indeed satisfied.

GOLDEN MOMENTS.

Days come and go,
In joy or ive ;
Days go and come,
In endless sum."

I KNOW I'm a tiresome person'' said Mrs.
Battle, at last appearing in the doorway ;
'' but the gong sounded some time ago. I
thought, perhaps, you did not hear."

'' Hear ! of course we did not," said Diana,
flying up to her and dragging her towards
Sir Blaise. " We are deaf and dumb, and
everything else that's stupid ; and the extraordinary
thing is that, notwithstanding all

our afflictions, we are so happy  so happy
that the world seems altogether too lovely."

"What does Mrs. Battle say to it all?"
says Sir Blaise, rising and standing before
her with glad eyes. " Is she pleased 1 "

*' How can she be pleased, Blaise ? " said
Diana mischievously. " You are, in the first
place, the worst possible match for me. You
have nothing to recommend you in any way.
You are dreadfully poor, and dreadfully
stupid, and dreadfully ugly. Wliij I am so
infatuated about you I caiit think. Perhaps
that naughty Puck has squeezed some of
those love-drops of his into my eyes, and I
shall wake up some day, and say to myself,
Why did I love him ? '

*' Is Mrs. Battle pleased ? Blaise ! Blaise !
that's just like you. Now I will tell you
a secret. She is so romantic that she has
projected this alliance for months, and kept

it all to herself, or nearly all. She would
not be so essentially feminine as she is if she
did not show a glimpse of her private desires
to an inquiring mind such as mine."

''No wonder Miss Beauchamp is happy,"
said Mrs. Battle. '' If I am so happy about it
all, Sir Blaise, what must she be ? "

*' Do you remember," said Diana, placing
her hands on Mrs. Battle's shoulders and
holding her playfully, " that evening at Beauchamp
when I made you vow you would never
leave me ? I think it would be as well to renew
it before Sir Blaise. You knew him before he
had ever seen me. Does it not seem odd to
think there was a time when we had never
seen each other  a time when I carried on
my recitations in Italy all by myself, and did
not know anything about him ? "

It was too bad of Mrs. Battle not to tell
me all about you," said Sir Blaise. " I should

have gone to Italy and brought you back to
Sir Golf. I can't think what he was about."

I believe," said Diana, laughing, " he was
catching salmon, and we all know how they
tug. Is it likely he should remember my insignificant
existence ? Besides, I was poor, and
the poor slip out of everybody's memory. The
only poor relations to whom the world pays
any attention are the monkeys. Now let's
come and dine. Mrs. Battle thinks the loss of
dinner a serious matter. She never allows
any latitude in that direction. I assure you,
Blaise, she was in a terribly perplexed state of
mind one night, not so very long ago, when I
shut myself into my room, and pondered over
my agreement with Mr. Cantilupe."

'' I'm a practical person, Sir Blaise," said
Mrs. Battle, " and I don't think it's seemly we
should 0*0 about like ghosts before our time.
No human being can stand up without food, and

look the same. Poor Mr. Battle, when  hops '
went wrong, refused food. I said, ' You will betaken
in more than ever now, Mr. Battle. You
will have no physical strength to combat your
difficulties.' "

Happiness feeds," said Diana, " nevertheless.
Let us come and dine."

Happy day ! blessed day ! If there were many
such days, could any one feel that a change
would be better ?

No. As Nature has her moments of entrancement
when the sun gilds the mountain-side till
it glows with a rapture no brush can adequately
paint ; when the bees are busy amidst the
dreamy heather ; when the breeze is whispering
its amorous tale to the budding trees, and the
birds hush their songs to listen to the throb of
an awakening earth  so surely must the chill
days follow when the same mountain-side knows
no summer kiss  when the breeze moans in the

VOL. III. H

same tree-tops, and the birds fold their wings
in fear. For the Nemesis, Death, is abroad,
with his haunting cry and his blasting touch.

Oh I sin-dashed world, even Love, which
finds a place in your economy, must pass
through the gloomy portals. Yet, carrying
the shade of its regeneration amidst its ashes,
it shall rise in its purified beauty in God's
own Paradise.

Diego's LOVES.

Our riches will leave us sicJi,
There will be hitteiiiess in our laiiyhtery

When Mr. Cantilupe received a note from
Diana the following morning, requesting him
to call upon her that afternoon, he was immediately
in possession of the announcement
she had to make to him.

With head bent in his hands, he sat for fully
an hour in profound thought  the moment for
crystallizing action had come, and he was busy.

A hideous crew of demons formed his
company. He inclined his ears to their
whispers  he besought their aid.

H 2

Diana was about to slip from his grasp, hut 
hideous hut .

Even to himself he would not deliberately
name the deed which should shroud her days
in gloom.

Italian blood is not the sweetest to play
with," thought he. " History proves it.

How can I help my hereditary failings ?
What I desire, I will have.

*' I desired this Diana ; she fits me as no other
woman could. The hours pass like minutes in
her presence ; her beauty is of the genus Cultivated.
Nothing less could have charmed meo



A form of grace  lips of persuasion.' She has
penetrated me.

I warned her she could draw all that was
worst to herself, for the very violence of the
love she evokes, if thwarted, is sure to turn
to hate.

And now, how shall it be ? She will

ask me to let lier give up the recitations,
and if I say * No,' she will smile sweetly, yet
haughtily, and say, ' Then must I appear as
Lady Panmure.'

My plan has failed ; I deemed Panmure too
proud a man to permit this. But I mistook
him ; his love has outlet pride.

'' How he, too, loves her. One might envy
the streams of such a love, for the sources are
pure. Oh ! I can appreciate all that is high
in the ethics of a passion as well as I can
appreciate the outline of a perfect form.

None the less can I be remorseless in my
purpose ; and that purpose shall be carried out,
though I wait lone: for it."

Then Mr. Cantilupe went up-stairs to find
Diego.

Entering the room after repeated trappings
(for the Duce was as scrupulous about disturbing
the private moments of his servants

as they could be about bis), a strange sight
met his view ; though to Mr. Cantilupe, who
knew the habits of Diego, the exhibition afforded
no surprise.

The dwarf was seated on the waxed floor,
surrounded with crockery and earthenware.
An ancient kettle, such as gipsies might use,
formed the centre-piece to the motley assemblage.
It was filled to the brim with coins of
all nations  some of the cups were full of gold,
some of silver ; whilst others were emptied of the
money, which lay in little heaps on the floor.

Diego had been at his old game ; he was
richer than he had thought.

He had been enjoying a " field-day " amongst
the sovereigns. In fact, he went in for some
sort of military manoeuvres in this oft-repeated
pastime ; for he would spend the first hour
in marshalling the coins into rank and file, and
then arranging them into squadrons. He had

a grim sort of humour of his own : the attacking
party ahvajs consisted of the sovereigns,
the defensive of the smaller coins. He would
build up strong fortifications of the silver metal,
and then commence the attack by taking aim
with the gold. So he would continue, till
down came the great ramparts, and sovereigns
and crowns lay in helpless disorder on the
supposed battle-field.

Then he would pick each one up separately,
chuckling long and low, and hold each piece
in his hand, and rub the coins with a piece of
chamois leather kept for the purpose.

Nay, he would go further ; he would place
them to his lips, and even murmur inarticulate
expressions of tenderness over them, always
ending up with  '' The pretty pieces ! the pretty
pieces, that distance all the world ! Give me
the pieces ! Let me live and die clutching
hold of the pretty pieces ! "

** Well, Diego," said Mr. Cantilupe, stroking
his moustache reflectively ; ' the pieces are
accumulating, what will you do with them when
you return to the universal dust-bin '? "

Take them along with me, master. I
could not sleep well without them. I want
to have them round me like a shroud. I've
not enough to cover me yet  to cover me
thickly."

How gets on the political jargon, Diego ? "
said Mr. Cantilupe, playfully taking uj a coin
and aiming at the kettle.

All the terribly earnest movements of this
man's life  all his ugliest deeds  were carried
out "playfully." Is it not old Horace dio
says, " Joking decides great things ; stronger and
better oft than earnest can ? "

"Do you understand the easy little lesson I
set you ? "

I could set a flame to Ireland tomorrow,"

said the dwarf, stretching out his hand. " I
could set Paddy mad. I've got hold of the
right strings, misshapen though I be."

"Diego, you are a clever fellow. Your
spirit laughs at your body. You shall sow
the ground with sovereigns ; bear one thing in
mind  instigation is a harmless amusement. In
this world a more pleasing pastime could hardly
be found. Whisper, and watch for the result.
Every icldsper brings about a hirtli. A motley
crew of deeds we will allow ; nobody knows
their parentage. We must take care of your
little neck, tho', Diego ; I like it well. It's
the only neck I have to care for now. One
must cherish an affection for somebody, or one
grows so inhuman and that's a sure way to
lose caste."

"Is the Missy going to be married ? " said
the dwarf, looking up quickly, his small keen
eyes scanning Mr. Cantilupe's features.

Mr. Cantilupe did not reply for several
seconds, but picked up another and yet another
coin, and aimed aeain and aain at the
kettle ; his thin lips were curved in a smile 
the smile that Diego had learned so well to
decipher.

Charming old kettle," he said at last,
speaking slowly. " See how it receives the
impression of the coin  indentations, indentations,
nothing but indentations ! Some women
are as easily impressed for good or evil as this
pacific and civilized creation in brass. Miss
Beauchamp in no way resembles your kettle."

*' So the Missy is going to be married ? " said
Diego ; but this time he did ?iot look at Mr.
Cantilupe, but down on the ground.

*' Come, Diego, don't be so direct in your
questions ; did I not tell you T would yet
charge my bride in the red wine, out of Cleopatra's
goblet ? These direct questions of yours

are not civilized  to be direct has a trace of
savagery. I thought I had trained you better."

Then he chucked the dwarf under the chin,
and said 

* Pull you the strings when the moment is
ripe. Meantime here is another little bag of
toys ; and, once more, don't forget instigation
is a harmless amusement which never gets a
man swung too high ; tis a subtle thing, only
comprehended of the subtle ; it does the world's
work, though it has kindled the flames for
martyrs, and brought down revolutions. Remember
that. Ah ! Diego, you will be among
goodly company."

SUBTLETY.

A poetic anatomist in our own day teaches that a snal'e
being a horizontal line, and man, being an erect line, constitute
a right angle ; and between the lines of this mystical
quadrant all animated beings find their iDlace

That afternoon Mr. Cantilupe and Miss Beauchamp
had an interview so long, that Mrs.
Battle thought the deadly serpent must surely
have stung Diana, and she would die of the
hurt.

So long, that she even pressed her ear
against the door, excusing herself with the
thought that she had heard bliss Beauchamp
say Napoleon had done so ; and if this were

so, surely she might, for Iter motives were
honest, whatever Its might have been.

A little logic went a long way with Mrs.
Battle, and even if it happened to be logic
upside down, she was not likely to discover it.

The murmuring of voices was all she heard,
and the even flow of those murmuring suggested
no emotional interview, no dramatic
incidents.

'heightened voices always go with honest
rage," she thought; "the true passion is, maybe,
loud and vulgar, but it's not dangerous ;
this murmuring on his part, I like it not."

'' I know all about it, Miss Beauchamp'
Mr. Cantilupe had said, as he advanced to
meet her, and playfully pressed her back on
the couch, from which she had half risen ashe
entered the drawing-room. *' Yes, I know
all about it ; and now, what would you have
me say ? Offer you my warmest congratulations,

and tell you that you will be far happier
as Lady Panmure than as the artiste, Miss
Beauchamp ? "

He had placed himself on the couch beside
her ; but he did not look at her, his glance
was bent on the carpet.

Then I have nothing to tell you," said
Diana ; " I mean, nothing you do not know.
But I wish to say, that if you find it in the
least inconvenient, I can carry on the recitations.
Sir Blaise has set me at rest about
his feeling in the matter."

' Happy Sir Baise," said Mr. Cantilupe ;
"if I feel the least bit envious. Miss Beauchamp
will think I, am but a human, fallible,
erring; man who needs much absolution."

"You are wedded to the sciences, Mr. Cantus
said Diana hurriedly.

'' Don't make me out an abnormal person,"
said Mr. Cantilupe, still playfully; "it is

quite true I am not like most people ; but
I have a human touch somewhere  at
least, I have discovered that there is not the
immeasurable distance between myself and
other men I had thought. The discovery has
been an unhappy one. I am very unhappy.
Men, as a rule, will not avow their unhappiness
; but when I feel that your sympathy
would help me, can I resist asking you to feel
for me ? "

He paused  and Diana murmured, " You
have always been so generous to me, I don't
know how to thank you enough."

"You see, you could only thank me in one
way," said Mr. Cantilupe, shaking off the
dejection of a moment ago ; " and that way
is not to be. The only possession I have ever
coveted to an extent, I may say, without
bounds, is evidently unattainable."

Colouring slightly, Diana dared to give

vent to her belief that she had been right in
her surmises. If Mr. Cantilupe were disappointed,
it was only because he had failed to
acquire some human bric--brac he chose to
account as ultra rare.

'' You have such costly surroundings," she
said. " No one has such a collection of
curios  no one

"I see what you mean, Miss Beau champ,"
he said, in a half - bantering tone. "Very
ingenious  very. I see what you mean. But
I am not going to defend myself. If it
pleases you to think I cannot pipe and hymn
after the fashion of the human race, that I
am beyond the reach of that often poisoned
arrow which inflicts such deadly hurt on its
victims  well, well, you shall think so. It
would be unbecoming in me to speak to the
affianced bride of another of my capabilities,
both to love and to suffer ; besides, while such

ii suspicion as escaped you just now has been
bearing all kinds of blossoms, it would be
useless."

Mr. Cantilupe's manner had drifted again.
His tone was cold, almost severe. He had
affected Diana exactly as he desired.

She leaned forward, and said, with real
feeling,

"I cannot bear to seem ungrateful to
f/ou, of all people in the world. But what
can I say ? "

"What, indeed?" he said, resuming his
bantering tone. "Tell me to look out for
another Diana. Tell me I shall find a
hundred more rare than she. Tell me to
forget, or to. remember to forget. Tell me
there are more faces of the Burne-Jones type
in the world than one; more forms moulded
after the Grecian type, than one. Tell me
anything and everything. And when you

VOL. III. J

have said all tins, say it all over again and
again, and leave me just where you found me.

Such is love."

Reason may well hate love. Love has
no logic. What can well - equipped and
admirably versed reason have in common
with this wild sentiment, with its extravagance
and its freaks ? What ? Don't answer
me, how can you ? I should dread to hear
those lips of } ours frame the pretty speeches
women are prone to make to us unhappy
men, when they will or can ' have none of us.'
The claptrap, colourless insipidity which
spring uppermost, the hackneyed phraseology
of the young lady who has come through this
sort of thing so often  no, no !

Besides, you have nothing to answer.
What have I said ? Have I ventured further
than I should ? 1 think even Sir Blaise
could hardly find fault with me."

Sir Blaise would feel as I feel about it
all," said Diana, half to herself.

'' Ah ! that's how it should be," said Mr.
Cantilupe. " Sentiments shared in common.
The ive and the us in full and perfect
working order. Why should such bliss be
denied to me ? I vow I could appreciate the
full flavour of this description of thing,
though I am such a bric-a-brac hunter, such
an abnormal person."

I hope yet, Mr. Cantilupe, you will
find '

Miss Beauchamp, I protest ; you shall
not vex me with that mocking hope. I
shall demand backshish. Come, you see I amin
high good - humour, notwithstanding the
nature of our tete-astute. I have some claim
on you. I need hardly crave your forbearance."


You have a great claim on me," Diana

I 2

said impulsively. " I am full of faults, but I
am not ungrateful. It shall never be said by
you that I am ungrateful."

Mr. Cantilupe rose and went to the window.
He stood looking out on the narrow, wind-swept
street for several seconds ; then he crossed the
room, and stood before Diana.

If you had never seen Sir Blaise, would
3'ou, coM you have loved me ? " He had
modulated his voice almost to a whisper, yet
there was a dramatic simplicity (if such
a paradox is permissible) in the manner
of his query, which impelled some sort of
answer.

Several seconds elapsed in silence ; Diana
paled, then reddened.

The great tub of orange-blossoms, which was
planted in one corner of the room, sighed in a
languor of seductive fragrance. Why do flowers
at some moments fill the air to intoxication

with their one form of lanc/iiage, and at others
remain silent ?

The macaw gave way to his one and only
sentence, "Where is the parson?" A canary,
hanging between two flowering baskets depending
from the ceiling, burst into a sudden ecstasy
of song.

Flowers and birds were at ease ; and Diana,
who could have thrown off this mal a propos
question with happiest insouciance if she would,
remained in the utmost discomfort ; because
she held this man in such high estimation that
she could not bear to answer hmi with a displeasing
No.

Mr. Cantilupe saw the great discomfort into
which he had plunged Diana  saw and rejoiced.
She would not throw off* his question like a
Season young lady, who, having curtsied at
her first Drawing Room and come through her
first campaign, is already a practised hand at

the oeiitle art of " fencing." iVo, Diana was as
true as Nature ; for is not Nature awfully true,
whether in her fierce rage or her prolific love ?
She has no treachery that she does not make
you perfectly cognisant of. She is not civilized,
like her offspring  human nature. Mankind,
after all, can but pay court to her. He can
plant his seed, and hoe up the fallow ground,
and do his best to cultivate her ; but he is at
her mercy ; for wind and rain may make a
mock of him.

Mr. Cantilupe left Diana just as long as he
pleased, turning about that ugly word No, with
its uncompromising aspect, which, do our best,
we can't dress up into anything but an awkward
and malhonntte little syllable, which should
have no place in our elegant vocabulary.

He saw the exact moment at which the
frightful little word " No " was about to precipitate
itself from her lips. He divined and

waved her answer back to the regions where
unfinished thoughts and unspoken words remain
crowded together in the mental studio, which
every human being possesses,  a studio more
interesting than any artist's. For here are
formed the deeds that make us great or little ;
here spring into birth the thoughts which, when
acted out, shall form the drama or the tragedy
of our lives.

' My question was ungenerous  unfair, the
question of a schoolboy  of a tart-consuming,
plum-pudding-eating schoolboy. It was a
question for which I shall require much
absolving ; it sprang from me impulsively.
Look upon it as unspoken," he said, hurrying
his words before him as if he had no control
over them ; his attitude one of entreaty 
head bent, shoulders slightly drawn together,
hands clasped.

Diana's expression shifted from embarrassment

to a great relief ; this also lie noted.
He had only added a little more gratitude to
the already heavy bill she owed him.

When is the wedding to be ? You must
allow me to give you away. This is the only
request I have to make. Is it (j ranted ''

Diana's eyes sought the ground. She felt
painfully this heaped-up magnanimity. How
wrong Mrs. Battle had been in her base
suggestions. This mystic man, with his readiness
for self-immolation, was sublime.

Is my request granted ? " he said, bending
towards her as she still sat in silence.

How can you doubt it ? " she answered, and
her admiration for his generosity gave impetus
to her tone.

Mr. Cantilupe's lips parted in the smile with
which he had smiled at Lord B ; a pregnant
smile. But Diana saw nothings of all
this  she was thinking what nobility is sown

We will have one farewell recitation at
the Cosmos," he said. " Miss Beauchamp shall
blaze forth like a comet in the intellectual
skies. And you have emboldened me to ask
yet one more favour. I should like you to
wear the dress you first appeared in  the
dress you told me you bought at a festa in
some Etruriann village ; the Eoman belt, with
its flashing gems encircling your waist. * Sir
Blaise will surely not grudge me these requests."


** Sir Blaise shares my sentiments for you,
Mr. Cantilupe," said Diana eagerly. '' He knows
how your considerate care has smoothed away
all the disagreeable of public life ; he knows
how you guarded me in m} then isolated
position from all unpleasantness."

I suppose Sir Blaise will take you to

Ireland with him, two months hence ? " said
Mr. Cantilupe meditatively. "These are your
plans."

Who told you ? " said Diana, in her surprise
meeting Mr. Cantilupe's eyes, which she
had avoided before ; conscious that, however
generous he might be, her ambition had greatly
aggravated the unhappiness he evidently felt.

Mr. Cantilupe was silent for long.

At last he said  "Love will outrun the
fleetest messenger that ever winged his way
With his bag of information strapped about
his shoulders. But I must not mention the
word love in your presence ; I vow myself to
platonism. I suppose you will spend a few
months in each year at the Isle of Saints, as
wee call Ireland, and the rest at Whitefriars ;
but plans that lovers make lose half their
charm if discussed boldly by other lips.

"Now, good-bye; I must return to my

lonely study  the study in which Miss Beauchamp
has recited ' Eizpah.' I must get out of
my body to think'

Raising Diana's hand to his lips with the
grace which never, under any circumstances,
deserted him, Mr. Cantilupe bowed, and left.

No sooner had the hall-door shut, than Mrs.
Battle came panting into the room, with an
expression of blended curiosity and fear in her
countenance.

Ah ! Mrs. Battle," said Diana, regarding
her half sorrowfully, " how ignorant we are
of each other ! Mr. Cantilupe has been well
tested ; he has been passed through a sieve,
and nothing but pure gold have I shaken out.
He is kindness itself. He has made but two
requests  one that he gives me away, the other
that I wear that dress threaded with silver, on
my last appearance at the Cosmos."

Even Mrs. Battle sat down, and was silent.

"We all have our good points," she said
at last. " Mr. C'autilupe is not all poison ; I
suppose there is only a trace of arsenic. The
serpent has a deal of wisdom. I've studied
their peculiarities at the Zoo."

 * * #

If she could have studied Mr. Cantilupe's
eyes, as, staring fixedly before him, he was
at that moment walking towards Bond Street,
and meditating, she would have rushed off to
the Zoo for a further investigation of that
most subtle " beast of the field." Of what were
his eyes full ? Triumph ? Surely of vengeance.
AVhat !

EGYPT.

H makes a great difference to the force of any sentence,
whether there he a man behind it or no''

Meantime the days sped on for Diana with
such a radiancy on the hours, that she often
found herself musing how she had existed at
all before she had met Sir Blaise.

To find herself suddenly surrounded with
every sweet alluring attention and care which
the most perfect foresight could desire  the
exquisite outcome of a nature at once so manly
and so gentle as his  sometimes she would
retire to her room, and leaning her head on

her hands, think of it all with a joy that was
almost pain.

And then a mute cry would escape her, to
be kept from isolating herself from human
beings altogether, in the knowledge that she
had attained all that she could possibly wish
or desire on earth. Yes, the world seemed to
contain but one man  Blaise ; and it seemed
as if it never had contained but one man 
Blaise.

it was this consciousness that made her take
herself to task, sometimes severely ; for was
not this the narrowness of an exclusive love
which had swept her heart clean, and tenanted
every chamber ?

So few get all they want. I have. 1
have all the more need, therefore, for watchfulness,"
she would say to herself at these moments
of inward reflection.

One afternoon, shortly before their marriage,

Diana was sitting with Sir Blaise, when she
said suddenly 

I saw Francisca Masters yesterday, and
she is in great trouble. Major Clintock is
under orders for Egypt, and starts in the
Serapis ' next week, and she begs me to go
with her to Portsmouth to see him off. Her
marriage will not take place till his return ;
she says I shall be some support to her when
she watches the trooper off. Felicia Novello
is in Italy, and her own people have not the
rallying powers required for such a trying
moment, though Lady Masters will accompany
her. What shall I do ?"

Go, by-all means," said Sir Blaise. " I
know what a comfort you will be."

How thankful I am it's not you, Blaise,"
said Diana, flinging her arms round his neck.
I could not let you go ; I should die of
grief. Do you know, one evening, when I was

Staying with the Masters at Enclose, i felt as
if I should have a great trouble some day, and
I held up my hands to God, begging Him to
avert it. But no answer seemed to come 
rather a stillness, as if I should have to pass
through it. I suppose we all have presentiments
now and then  not that I am superstitious ;
but promise me, Blaise, that you will take me
with you wherever you go  promise me at all
costs."

This is wdiat comes of being imaginative,"
said Sir Blaise fondly. ' When you are my
wife, Di, I shall people your life with such
real living facts that you will have no time
to dream dreams''

Promise me, Blaise."

Promise what ? " said Sir Blaise, laughing.

That you will go nowhere without me ;
then, if anything happens, it will happen tous
together."

It's not very likely I shall find much
pleasure in going about by myself, when I can
take you with me, Di. Why, I never enjoy
anything now without you, and I hope
matrimony won't tone down my sentiments."

I hope not, Blaise."

Then they both laughed like a boy and girl
at their modest hope, laughing for pure joy.

Each day drew them nearer to each other ;
for who can deny that love must grow ? There
is no standing still in Nature or human nature ;
we are adding to or taking from whatever we
possess, mentally, or morally, or spiritually ;
each moment something lost or found to increase
our store.

If to outsiders Sir Blaise was charming, not
only in person, but in the higher attributes
which raise one man some inches above another,
and make one feel that in the nature and
aspirations of the man there is something

VOI,. III. 

infinitely high yet lovable, what was the effect
of a close intercourse with such a nature to
Diana, who shared already his nearest and most
cherished thoughts, and possessed in its entirety
his earthly love ?

No wonder, again and again, each day she
repeated to herself how blest she was  how
blest beyond her deserts.

Blaise, we have not had a quarrel yet,"
said Diana; 'let us just have one little
quarrel, to be like other people. Let us
squabble like the two old men who lived in
the cell"

"Very well," said Sir Blaise; "I will
begin, if you will tell me how those old
men squabbled."

The first old man said, ' Here, I will exit
a brick between us, and say that it is mine,
and you shall say that it is not mine, and over
that let us have a contention and a squabble.'

But when they put the brick between them,
and one said, ' It is mine,' the other said, ' I
hope it is mine ' ; and when the first said, ' It
is mine, it is not yours,' he answered, 'If it
is yours, take it So they could not find out
how to quarrel after all."

That's how it will be with us," said Sir
Blaise ; " when the brick is stuck up between
us, we shan't know how to quarrel about
it."

*' We will never grow prosy, Blaise. How
husbands and wives snap at each other, as a
rule ! One feels quite sure that if they did not
happen to be married, they would not remain
together. It seems very dreadful to say so ;
but, of course, I am talking of the bulk of
married couples."

Sir Blaise took Diana's face between his
hands, and regarded it long and fixedly. There
was worship in the look, you might have said :

K 2

tliroiigli all the years some faint reflection of
such worship will yet be found.

Diana paled, and said 

Blaise, I'm thankful you have no relations ;
no one who can interfere between us, and
make mischief and destroy our bliss. I'm
glad  yes, glad, that you can't introduce me
to those generations Mrs. Battle loves to thread.
Nobody who dare to come up to you with
the familiarity of close kinship, and say, ' Miss
Beauchamp is this or that.' Oh, I'm glad 
downright dad."

Why, Di, suppose they had," Sir Blaise
said, laughing ; "I should have said, ' My very
good people, you are adding fuel to my love ;
pray keep your remarks to yourselves ; I need
no more fuel.' ]\Iy orthodox garb (which you
say makes me seem so unapproachable) would
not have hindered me from ' reminding ' on
them, and making; them look rather foolish."

Then Sir Blaise looked again at Diana, and
perhaps the fondness of his look had deepened.

'' I'm glad all the same, Blaise. To been
with, you never liked the recitations, and they
could have worked on that ; and then I led a
very Id dependent life in Italy, all by myself,
and they could have worked on that ; and
then I've a great many flagrant faults, and they
could have worked on that."

*' Poor things ! " said Sir Blaise, who was
laughing; "what a fearful amount of work
they wotdd have had to do, and all to end in
sending me to your feet ; for really, Di, I used
to think a fellow who went down on his knees
before anybody, must be a very aesthetical
fellow, given to walking in jerks and moving
in the manner of that school ; but I think they
would have worked me up to that pitch at
last. How absurd I should have looked ! and
I should have made my mother, father, brothers.

sisters, aunt, grandmother, grandfather, and
distant cousins, as Mrs. Battle says, all come
and look at me too. Now, are you still
glad ? "

Yes, Blaise, still glad." But Diana was as
red as the red rose which Sir Blaise had put
in her belt.

Then with the varying charm which made
his face so interesting a study, he continued 

Do you know, Di, some time ago, before all
this had come to pass between us, but when
I knew I loved you, I was sitting in the library
at Whitefriars  in the window-sill where you
sat, sweet Di, on that memorable afternoon
when Francisca Masters brought you over,
and a glorious rainbow spanned the heavens
and straight into its very midst flew a
pair of doves ; I thought, ' Diana and I will
mount as fearlessly into the glorious lights
as these emblematical birds, and let the reflected

rays from His presence beautify our daily
lives'"

I shall never be like you, Blaise," said
Diana ; " but I have always had yearnings
after God. Nature taught me to love God
first of all. I thought how beautiful the
thoughts of God must be when I looked out
on lovely scenery, and read this living poem ;
but I never loved God in a human being till I
met you."

Don't look at me, Di," said Sir Blaise, a
contraction of pain crossing his brow. " I feel
as if a life spent in the very dust cannot atone
for the years I have wasted. I can quite
understand the monks and hermits and friars
fleeing into the wilderness to escape from Sin.
The course is one hard fight."

I will be a hermits, if you turn a hermit,"
said Diana.

"Di, we will spend our time to some

purpose," said Sir Blaise, throwing back his
head, and his whole countenance lighting up
with the glow of the enthusiasm which animated
him. "We know but little of the
future state, but we know a great deal about
the present. It's a time of sowing  we will
sow, and one day together, darling Di (always
together), we will share our true harvesting."

 Love is com2Kdihle ivlfh universal wisdom.''

The song is to the singer and comes back most to him;
The teaching is to the teacher, and comes hack most to

him ;
Trie theft is to the thief, and comes hack most to him ;
The Jove is to the lover, and comes hack most to him ;
The gift is to the giver, and comes lack most to him  it

cannot fail."

*' I KNEW you AYould come," said Francisca, as
she greeted Diana at the Portsmouth Station ;
*' I knew I could count on your sympathy. As
for Sir Blaise, he was always the most unselfish
man living. Besides, you are going so
soon now to spend your lives together, while
I ''

Francisca's eyes absolutely filled with
tears as they trundled along in the fly

which was to take them to the Q

Hotel, at Southsea, where Lady Masters wis
staying.

"The 'Serapis' starts tomorrow at six
o'clock," continued Francisca, " and, of course,
Clintock is in the highest spirits. Why do
men like fighting ? I am sure they never
look so delighted as when a fishy is ofoinor
on. I 2cis/i I was a man : for them, all the
action of life ; for us, all the passive sitting
down ; for us all the tears, for f/iem all the
smiles. Look at my eyes  that is, if you can
see them  how I have wept. And Clintock
only laughs and says, ' High art eyes  varieties,
and very too too.' "

That's the way he keeps you up," said
Diana.

'' Men can't suffer," continued Francisca ;

THE " SERAPIS. 139

*' it's not iu them to suffer. Emerson talks of
brute youth ' ; Clintock has not this excuse.
I am always puzzling out these life problems.
I wish I could be like other people, and
take everything I see and hear as a matter
of course. Here is Clintock," said Francisca,
suddenly poking her head out of the window
and waving; "he has just been dovvn to the
Docks."

Major Clintock now joined them, and
Francisca's complaining were silenced for the
moment.

The poor little woman is in an awful
state of mind," he said, looking delightedly
at Francisca. " But now you have come, Miss
Beauchamp, you will soon put her all right,
don't you know."

'' Another of mankind's delusions," said
Francisca. '' Everybody is put all right de
suite"

You are so awfully clever," continued
Clintock, addressing his conversation to Diana
and this glances at Francisca. '' I put my foot
into it. She wants me to go about in a
very melancholy style, and, upon my word,
I can't, don't you know. I've a chance of
distinguishing myself. I fluted a Y.C. in the
last little war."

How dreadful war is ! " said Diana.

She felt she could only sympathize in
melancholy fashion, for she threw herself into
France sea's place and thought.

Oh ! if it were Blaise. Surely to love
passionately is not a gain  few can. For
those few a very crucible of suffering is often
in store. For a higher love is claiming them,
and there is the danger of being so perfectly
satisfied with the lower that the soul's training
is hindered. 'Tis mostly these passionate
natures that get the scourging in this world."

"Dreadful, but necessary," said Clintock
decidedly. " We shall have in ore and more
war, I suppose, till the end comes ; the parsons
tell lis so."

"You shall leave the army directly you
return from Egypt," said Francisca.

Poor little woman," said Cliirtock, tuomnor
his moustache, and looking more and more
triumphant ; " she really is dreadfully cut upmost
awfully cut up ; and she did not care
a bit for .me till I was under orders, don't
you know. Miss Beauchamp."

How can you say such things," said Francisca,
colouring furiously.

Tltafs in the constitution of things, if you
like", said Clintock.

"You are getting spoilt," said Francisca;
a very little attention goes to your head ;
you were in capital discipline a short time
ago. I shan't cry any more ; I believe the

war will be all over before the ' Serapis ' gets
out. It lias just flashed upon me. Sir Garnet
will strike one tremendous blow, and the
Egyptians Avill throw down their arms."

At this Major Clintock looked so truly
disconsolate, that both Diana and Francisca
burst out lauo'hino.

' You will come steaming back as you
went," said Francisca.

Nevertheless, when from the Southsea Pier
on the following evening they watched the
ti-cooper, which was bearing Major Clintock to
the East, come sailing along like a beautiful
white swan, its deck sown with red like a
field of poppies, and heard the strains of " Auld
Lang Syne," Francisca's tears flowed freely ;
and not all the enthusiasm, as cheer upon
cheer broke from the assembled crowds, and
answered back from the " Serapis," could
drown her sorrow in sentiment.

It was a graceful, beautiful sight, the stately
ship bearing our brave men to that land
so full of interest ; carrying the British flag
where the children of Israel had cried out
against their task-masters ; and Diana felt
strangely stirred as she waved her handkerchief,
and watched till the "Serapis" was buta
dim white spot on the ocean.

You will keep the little woman up," had
been Clintock's last words to Diana, and Diana
had promised to do her best.

So that evening, when Francisca said, " Do
have some sanctuary intercourse," she had
said, '' Say on."

It's not about Sir Blaise I have come to
talk," Francisca said, twisting her hair about
her shoulders ; for she had come into Diana's
room as she had on that evening at her own
home some time ago, when she had discoursed
on her prospects ; '* it's about Mr. Cantilupe.

You know lie is a Duce ; but if a man won't
own a title because lie carries on a queer
trade, I suppose he can do so.

Diana, he is a strange man, and Felicia
says, on the night of your farewell at the
Cosmos Hall, he looked at you with some
dreadful meaning in his face. As surely as
one can see love in an expression, one can see
/laie.

"You know, Felicia left for Tome the next
day ; but she wrote me a long letter, and
described the whole this. She said 

o

' Why do people draw characters in their
books out of their heads, when they can have
living people to come and sit to them every
hour in the day ? '

Then she went on to describe the modern
Diana standing up in the midst of the jbn-
trees on the lapis lazuli flooring, with her
silver-threaded gown draped about her, and

the gem-set belt at her waist, and Sir Blaise
standing in the doorway like a knight in mail
(Felicia says she garbs everybody far more
realistically in her imagination than in sober
fact they appear), and looking at you as only
Sir Blaise can look ; and the Duce di Cantus
with his shadowy figure and old young
face, leaning against the marble pillar which
flanks one side of the staircase from which
you ascend and descend to your stage, smiling
as he bent his mystic glances on you, was a
notable sight to be retained in the memory when
much has vanished.

"You were reciting * Evangeline' at the
particular moment when Felicia, glancing
from Sir Blaise to the Duce, felt herself carried
along with the strong undercurrent of feeling
which was in the air. Gabriel passes Evangeline
in the boat, and she does not know it ;
and Felicia says she shall never forget the

VOL. III. L

intensity of expression, both in your face and
voice, as with Longfellow you marvelled
some angel had not breathed the passing of
Gabriel into Evangelic e's ear. You were
wrapt and lost to the crowded audience, which
in breathless silence was listening to this ever
lovely idyllic poem ; but all this is merely
leading up to the question I want to ask.
What does our Duce say about your marriage ? "

''He is very kind about it all, simply because
he is so unselfish."

Then Diana's brow contracted, and after a
moment's pause, she added, '' But I don't pretend
to understand the race, for I have had
so few friends. I know far more about Nature
with her subtle manners, than human nature
with its vagaries. Once I had an exaggerated
fear of our race  this was when 1 lived in
Italy  but lately have felt a universal love
for it."

We pass through so many stages' said
Francisco musingly.

*' One thing I know," continued Diana, " I
am hugely indebted to Mr. Cantilupe (as I
suppose we must still call him), and Sir Blaise
likes him very much."

Sir Blaise would not apprehend Mr.
Cantilupe," said Francisco, shaking her head.

You are as bad as Mrs. Battle," said Diana,
*' she is for ever frightening me about him ;
sometimes I think it is because he is so cultivated,
that people less cultivated fear him.
I can't make it out.

Culture and cruelty are a combination to
be dreaded, and Mr. Cantilupe impresses both
Mrs. Battle and me after the same fashion."

** Don't have ' the Duce ' to stay with you at
Whitefriars, he will mesmerise you ; he does
mesmerise people  he is odd, he is like nobody
else. Confess, Diana, your knowledge of life

is derived from no hand-to-hand dealing with
the race. You have scaled the walls of friendship
at a bound, but you have not climbed up
the little narrow crooked steps one by one
like other people, and found out what a fallacy,
and what a hollow sham, encompass inmost
friendships. The Duce is no friend to you now.
Friend! He a friend? at no time a friend.
Something else, if you will  something to
which I suspect the love of other men, even
Door Clintock's for me, looks a stunted
blossom. I want to warn you. I vowed to
Felicia I would warn you. Will you be
warned ? "

Once more, as on that evening when a foreboding
of impending evil had attacked Diana,
the same nerve vibration made itself felt.
She leaned back amidst the cushions of the
couch on which she was resting, and turned
deadly pale.

Francisca rushed frantically to her side,
pausing in her movements to deluge her handkerchief
in eau vinaigre : 

Why did 1 speak ? How stupid, how
owlish, I am ! "

But Diana was half smiling again, and
said,

*' I don't know why your words frightened
me. You surely cannot think that Mr. di
Cantilupe would work me harm. Why, he is
going to give me away ; he has always seemed
so kind, so generous ! "

I have been an owl to frighten you like
this," said Francisca remorsefully, " a perfect
owl. What harm, after all, can he do ? These
are not the days when people dare openly intrigue
against you. If he does intrigue, he will
do it smiling, not frowning ; that's the style in
which people intrigue now-a-days. He might
make mischief between yourself and your

husband. The insinuations would be so
smilingly carried out, that Sir Blaise would
probably think he was joking  nothing more
pronounced than that ; but if we know
anything of life, we learn this,  that half the
wretchedness of life is caused by insinuations."


Sir Blaise would never listen," said Diana
proudly. *' Sir Blaise would deeply resent
"

'' It would be too cleverly done for Sir
Blaise to perceive it. Diana, I have known
your future husband all my life ; so I may
say that, for all his sagacity, he is absolutely
blind to machinations, or intrigue, or finesse
of this description."

How is it you are so well versed in this
description of thing ? " said Diana, half severely,
half wearily.

*' I matured rapidly. I suppose," said Francisca

; " but 1 find that I am, generally
speaking, right. Don't think I set up for
being clever ; it's not that. It's perhaps
nothing more highly developed than  what
shall we call it  ' instinct ' ? I'm willing to
share my sagacity with the * canines,' if you
will. Instinctively I fear this person, and
trust that person. I am prepared to trust
poor Clintock. I always call him poor Clin-took,
because I think he is much to be pitied
in caring for me. I see over his little head,
and that's what he likes, and I'm not sure
whether / do or don't."

Diana was laughing now, and the colour had
returned to her cheek.

I like him when he says ' Don't you
know ' ? and looks so helplessly about for his
universal knowledge. At that moment he is
the most likable mannikin in the world. Oh !
Diana, you may laugh ; you think me as

shallow as a river at low tide on a summer's
day. What will you have ? Have you not
captured the hand that could have evoked,
perhaps from even poor me, some deep chords.
I shall * tinkle ' alone;  nothing more.

'* Perhaps, by-and-by, Clintock and I shall
change about, and he will see over my head,
instead of me over his. Nothing more sensational
than this will occur. You know, a
woman always sinks to the level of her husband.
I shall only become a ' don't you know '
style of a person. I shall be quite as happy as
all the rest of the ' don't you know ' school of
married couples, and I don't envy you in the
very least, Diana, though my words sound as
if I do. For, though, as I said before, you have
captured the hand that might have struck deep
chords in me  I fear those tense chords. I am
almost ready, sometimes, to throw up my hands
and thank God that I've escaped them ; that

I shall be humdrum  placid  that my pulse will
never stir  my senses quicken  my nerves
vibrate ; that for me there can never be those
great crisis moments when one's very life seems
to hang on a word, on a look, on a touch ;
when one life is lost, nay, submerged in another,
and only lives in the life of that other. The
alternations of hope and fear  the wild joy, the
craven fear,  some people, for one such moment,
would endure a whole lifetime of pale days ;
they have touched with their lips the maddest,
gladdest pulse of life ; and it will leave them,
not as it found them. On to the end they
will carry the reflection of such moments,
somewhere ; like the scent of a flower, it will
cling about their garments ; or, like the bite
of an adder, you may perceive its mark. Yes,
I can throw up glad hands, and can selfishly cry,
I've escaped the tense chords of life."

Diana's eyes had darkened as Francisca's

words flew from her lips, and found their place
ill her heart ; she hid her face in the cushion.
She coukl not answer Francisca, for her feet had
touched this strange shore, and her soul was
lapped in silence.

A whisper's fruit.

The song the wondrous chant of the grey-brown bird,
And the tallying chant the echo arous'd in my soul,
With the lustrous and drooping star, ivith the countenance

full of 'Woe,
With the holders holding my hand, Clearing the call of the

bird,
Comrades mine, and I in the midst, and their memory

ever I keep for the dead I loved so well ;
For the sweetest wisest soit of all my days and lands  and

this for his dead sake.
Lilac and star and bird twined with the chant of my soul,
There in the fragrant pines and the cedars dusk and dim"

Two montis had passed since the very simple
ceremony which had been performed by Father
Yenables at St. Veronica's had merged Miss
Beauchamp in Lady Panmure  two perfect
months  as we count perfection here.

Sir Blaise had touched the fine issues of
Diana's being, and she had drunk that satisfying
draught which is the portion of the few ; she
had tasted the one great human love which so
fills the entire being that the whole nature
blossoms out  'tis the mystic touch which
wakens a note as wild and sweet as any
swallow's  'tis a song of ascension.

o

The pleased contentment of the ordinary-hundreds
and thousands of newly wedded
couples with the ordinance which keeps the
world " going," was as different to their happiness
as Mrs. Jackson's pleasure in finding herself
possessed of a bunch of keys and a staff of
servants, a hoop of gold and a protector, is to
the joy with which a soit finds another soul
to comprehend its virtues and its failings, its
yearnings and aspirations,  a soul which translates
all its unspoken thoughts into the language
it has dreamed of, but never till now awoke to

find mingling in every detail of life, and
making the most commonplace duty eloquent
with a hundred tongues.

In the mythological world, one would imagine
Venus sitting on her throne, and passing before
her the various votaries who wished to be
initiated into the rites of the Court of Hymen.
As each one bends before her, she throws down
a golden coin and rings the changes. With a
smile of disdain she waves this one and that
from her presence. " Counterfeit ! counterfeit
! " she cries ; " only the coin that will ring
through the ages can open the gates of my
kingdom."

In the world of Fact, we can imagine much
such a scene. Of love, with its self-sacrifice,
self-abnegation, and faithfulness in storm and
sunshine, through change and chance, how few
can pass and yet ring out the same glad note
of the coin which the Mint approves.

Passion, like a summer's day, may glance
across the landscape of a life, and, with intoxicating
whisper, make a garden of a wilderness
in a night ; but tomorrow you shall find the
flowers that it bore all withered and gone, the
herbage scorched and blasted, the birds which
had sung in the beautiful bowers sprung up at
its touch, all fled, and no voice left to tell the
tale of its blighting hand but the silent records
of a forgotten grave, or the scarred and sorrow-haunted
life which it has left to inhabit the
wilderness it made.

For Diana, love had come in its most perfect
form. In Sir Blaise, she found at once the
tenderness of a woman united to the strength
of a man. Eare combination ! Yet manliness,
in its truest, deepest sense, seems never to be
reached till the two apparently opposing forces
are combined. Has not the ideal man this
marvellous blending ?

Monklees, where the Panmures had been
staying since their marriage, was one of Sir
Blaise's properties a few miles out of Dublin.
And on the next day they were to return to
London, where Sir Blaise purposed spending
a year, before returning to Whitefriars, and
officiating in his own chapel, which was then
to be thrown open to the public.

It was a dull afternoon. Autumn had crept
stealthily into the heart of summer, and given
its own blighting kiss to trees and flowers  
whispering of death and change.

There was to be a meeting between landlords
and tenants in Dublin, on this the last day
of the Panmures' stay in Ireland, and Sir Blaise
was to attend it.

I irish you would not go, Blaise," Diana
had said. The only rift in her lute during
these two happy months had been the dread
of anything happening to her husband.

"The most popular landlord in Ireland, Di,"
Sir Blaise had said, laughing. He was not
troubled with any fears. But Diana whitened
visibly, and in a moment he said 

'' I will go into the subject of selling over
the properties to Government, and then your
fears will all vanish. Anything better than
causing you a minute's pain. You are too
precious, and life is too short''

The colour came back to Diana's cheek, and,
as he handed her into the landau shortly
after, she said, " You have made me at rest,
Blaise ; these properties have been my only
trouble."

You will have to look about for a
grievance, Di," said he, laughing, as he took
his seat beside her ; and they were bowled
along at an exhilarating pace down the long
straight road which led from Monklees into
Dublin.

Autumn used to make me sad, Blaise,"
lie had said as he wrapped the bear skin rug
more tenderly about her. " Now, do you know,
I absolutely enjoy the wild whistle of the
wind as it hurries the leaves down from the
trees, and laughs at their timid expostulations,
as they cling to the belief in their decorating
beauty still."

And his answer had been a look and a
tightening of the hand which Diana had poked
into his, with her usual remark, " Nobody
sees."

The meeting was a crowded one. All
Dublin seemed out. This burning question of
landlord and tenant was under discussion, not
only in public halls, but at the corners of
the streets and at every dinner-table.

I don't care how long I wait," Diana had
said, as they drew up at the entrance of St.
Patrick's Hall.

VOL. Ill, M

Would it not be better to take a drive,
and fetch me an hour hence ? " Sir Blaise said ;
and then he added meditatively, ''I hope I
shall speak to the point."

He was standing with his hand on the door
of the carriage, looking half abstractedly at
Diana ; the next moment he had fallen forward
on the pavement shot through the heart !
*****

Of the indescribable confusion which followed,
no words could convey any adequate
description.

Diana, at the report of the pistol, had
started up with one long terrible cry, and
had thrown herself out of the carriage on the
prostrate body of Sir Blaise. Ashen tender hands
lifted her up, she was mercifully unconscious.

Meantime, the murderer or murderers of Sir
Blaise were tracked in all directions ; but, as
usual, no trace could be found.

How such deeds can be done in broad daylight,
and the perpetrators escape, seems one of
the enigmas left to solve with other enigmas.

Some declared they had seen a car drive
furiously up to the Hall with four suspicious-looking
men on it, and they had observed
them talking earnestly to each other, and
pointing in the direction of the Panmures'
carriage, which, with its magnificent bays and
perfect appointments, was provocative of attention
amidst the ramshackle conveyances
which are mostly seen in Dublin.

Others vowed they had observed a man with
a slouch hat and a long cloak, such as the
priests wear, standing at the corner of the
street, and looking attentively at Sir Blaise
as he stood talking to Lady Panmure.

But amidst all the evidence adduced of one
sort and another, and the various people who
were examinjjPESnumerous steamers

which were ransacked as they put into various
ports, no truth as to the real murderer of Sir
Blaise was come at.

The perpetrator of the foul deed remained
hidden in mystery.

Wanderings.

* Eai'Ws joys are but a dream, its destiny
Is hut decay and death. Its fairest form,
Sunshine and shadow mixed. Its brightest day,
A rainbow braided on the wreaths of storms

'blow! blow! blow!
Blow up sea hinds, along PaiomanclhS shore ;
I wait, and I loait, till you blow my mate to me.

When a great sorrow comes, surely the best
gift God can give is death or unconsciousness.
There is heroism in fighting a life-sorrow ; but
if even the Holy Jesu requested that if it
were possible this cup might pass from Him,
is it to be wondered at if the riven heart of
poor humanity cries out for deliverance from

its anguish in one or other of these forms ? For
Diana came this blest unconsciousness.

Mrs. Battle (who had been telegraphed for)
stood by her bedside for weeks, and listened
to her wanderings with a riven heart.

"My lamb! my lamb! if I could have
spared you the shock of returning consciousness,"
she repeated over and over again to herself,
as she hung over Diana's pillow, with her
eyes full of tears. " When you wake up to find
you have lost Sir Blaise, what icill you do !
What will become of you ! "

Meanwhile, Diana lay babbling of her love
and of her joy. Blaise and she were at White-friars
; they were standing together in the hall,
and looking at the portrait of Hortense di
Cantilupe.

Just such an expression between the eyebrow
and eyelid as you have, Di," Sir Blaise was
saying.

No, 110, Blaise ; she was so unhappy, and I
am . so happy. She never married Sir Sholto ;
she died when he was laid on his bed of ashes.
Who says she wanders about our grounds crying,
Sholto! Sholto!' Oh, Blaise! I'm not like
her ; I'm so happy ! I'm your wife."

' Too happy did you say ? "

Too happy for it to last ; so happy, that I
shall never care to die. Well, Blaise, I will
never feel secure of my happiness ; is that how
it should be ? I will think this joy must betaken
from me ; it must go, but not yet  not
yet. My nest must be disturbed. . . . Come
here, Blaise. Do you see those eagles teaching
their young to soar ? What ! can't you see
them ? Give me your hand, and I will describe
the scene ; I can talk twice as well with your
hand in mine. . . . What strong supple fingers
you have, Blaise ! What a human hand !
Dear, kind hand, always ready to give, my own

Blaise. . . . But the eagles  oh ! it was very
long ago, I saw those eagles. Where was I i
somewhere, I can't remember where ; I've lost
the name of the place. . . . Never mind, I
will describe the scene.

It was a bleak wild spot  a spot where
no man dwelt  a spot given up to Nature.
There were great towering rocks, all crimson
and cloud capped ; the jagged peaks stood out
against a stormy sky ; and at night they looked
like giants snivelling the sea, which was
stretching far away with its strange grand
lessons of God and His bounds. There were
seagulls lying on the crested weaves, and a great
red sun shining down from a bank of clouds
overhead.

Suddenly, I heard a rush of wings, and
far above I saw two eagles soaring upwards,
bearing on their wings some almost invisible
things. I looked more closely, and discovered

they were bearing their young on their wings.
Now they dropped them, and the little eaglets
essayed their own powers ; and now the parent
eagles swooped down and caught them up
again on their strong swift pinions, and bore
them up as it seemed to the very gate of
Heaven.

So, little by little, they gave them their
first lesson. They had stirred up the nest and
taught them to fly ; that's like God, Blaise,
you say. But I loll not settle in my nest.
I'm always dreading it may be stirred up. I
will learn to soar without being taught." . .

And then Diana started up in bed, and threw
up her arms. " What loss that? A 'pistol!
Some one fired ! Don't you see the smoke ?
What noise is that ? Blaise will tell me. . . .
My Blaise is the most popular landlord in
Ireland. He is safe." . . .

Mrs. Battle wrung her hands when Diana

approached the fearful tragedy, for she longed
yet dreaded this returning consciousness. But
Diana was babbling again, and this time it
was of Beauchamp Court.

Homespun, do you see the rabbits how
they love me '? . . . See, they don't move out
of my path. There are no traps here. Did
you say there were poachers about ? What
should poachers do at Beauchamp ? . . . Blaise,
come here ; I want to whisper to you. I did
not quite redeem Beauchamp  not quite. I
loved you too well. I was proud and ambitious ;
but my love withered it all up. Love scorches ;
it either destroys or blesses ; it's like the sun
it has two actions. . I always have done
what I said ; yet I did not quite redeem
Beauchamp ; but I married my bonnie
Panmure. . . ."

Francisca says, " Hush ! "

Then Diana laughed softly.

*' It's the only secret I have kept from you'*
she says  " Blaise, Blaise, do you remember,
the first day you called upon me you were
riding Lurline, the white horse. Why does
Death ride a white horse ? I'm to ride Lurline.
. . Poor old Bess, I never could do anything
with her ; she had no paces. Blaise laughs
at Bess. . . . My love, the scent of the turf
in the autumn beneath the horses' feet is sweet.
The leaves will be hurrying before us, and the
whistling wind will try to make us sad as we
scamper for miles over the bracken. But
nothing can make us sad, for we are together,
and so happy, my Blaise and I. . . . Who said
autumn was sad  that the earth was big with
her mournful cry as she gathers her fruits, and
then sinks to sleep beneath her shroud ? Sad !
Each day is glad to me, for Blaise and I are
together. . . ."

Realization.

'' That time times !
I would not Hue alivay."

That is the whistle of the tvind, it is not my voice ;
That is the fluttering, the fluttering of the spray ;
These are the shadows of the leaves.
0, darkness ! in vain !
/ I am very sick and sorrowful ! "  Walt Whitman.

Mrs. Battle "  the voice was Diana's own
voice ; not the strange, highly pitched, or
mysteriously lowered voice of her unconsciousness.


What has happened ? Am I ill ? Where
is Sir Blaise ? "

"You have been very ill  very, very ill,
dear heart ; and the doctor says you must rot
talk yet."

But I am quite well," said Diana ; *' and
I want to see Sir Blaise. Where is he ?
Blaise not be with me when I am ill I
Oh, where is he ? " Diana's voice was
rising, and she was seated up in the bed,
looking with widely-opened eyes at Mrs.
Battle.

Oh, where is he ? " Diana reiterated
piteously.

Sir Blaise will be with you by-and-by,"
said Mrs. Battle soothingly ; *' he has been
called away, dear heart."

"Mrs. Battle, tell me what it is there is
something wrong. Is Sir Blaise well ? You say
I have been ill."

You have been very, very ill," said Mrs.
Battle, clutching at anything to save her from

the awful disclosure, " and you must not talk ;
the doctor says so."

*' When will my Blaise come and see me ? "
said Diana anxiously. '' I think it so unlike
him not to be with me when I have been so
ill  tJiafs not my Blaise, now is it, Mrs. Battle ?
Oh ! I've had such dreams  such hideous
dreams. I dreamed I was seeking for Blaise,
all through the weary earth ; I wandered on
over marshes and waste spots ; I sank in
mire, and scrambled over mountains which
frowned upon me. I wandered on, stretching
out my arms and crying, ' Where is mi
Blaise ? ' But nobody made me any answer ;
not even Blaise. Could there ever come a
day when Blaise would make me 710 answer 
when T should stretch out my arms to clasp
the empty air ? Oh, save me from these
dreams ! "

*' You have been very, very ill," reiterated

Mrs. Battle tremulously, and at her wits' end
between fear of saying either too much or too
little.

But I am well now  quite well. Go and
tell Blaise so, and bring him here ; and doit
say he has hurt me by his absence. But it's
not like Blaise."

No, verily this silence of the dead was not
like the tender touch of the living.

To-morrow," said poor Mrs. Battle, not
knowing what to say.

To-morrow  not tomorrow," said Diana,
jumping up with violence, " but to-day ! "
The damask silk of the baldacchino over her
head cast a pale pink reflection on her
colourless cheeks, and seemed for the moment
to lend some of the old animation to her
features. " Will you have me seek him
myself ? "

Sir Blaise has been called away ; but you

will see him soon," Mrs. Battle murmured
soothingly.

Nothing is soon but the present. You
are keeping something back from me ! " Then
Diana commenced to sob and to wail out,
Oh, tell me all r'

Sinking on her knees, Mrs. Battle, for the
first time, prayed a real prayer. When overwhelming
trouble comes, each soul cries out
to God. She called out for help to deal this
blow to one who had but just returned from
the brink of the shadowy land.

You are praying," Diana wailed. '* Something
dreadful has happened. My Blaise prayed
at all times. Tell me the worst." And once
more she flung up her arms in the anguish
of her fear, as she said, " But, God, let
it not be about Blaise. In my dreams I
heard a pistol go off". In my dreams I saw
my Blaise fall forward  shot ! I've heard

shouts of fiendish laughter. My dreams are
about me yet. Oh, tell me what is real and
what is unreal ! "

Then Mrs. Battle, with streaming eyes and
a voice almost inaudible from emotion, said,
'rit is not all a dream. Some cruel earthly
fiend has taken the life of Sir Blaze."

And this time no blest unconsciousness
came to hide Diana from the awful truth.
She had to enter into the mystery of suffering
; she had to drink her cup of deadly wine
alone. Human hands and human hearts, beat
they never so kindly, or draw her to their
side never so fondly, could not succour her.
Their touches were external. In the inmost
depths of her being she was alone.

Surely sorrow, the handmaid of Death, has
learnt its isolation from its grim master. Yet
to senses quickened, there might have been
heard a rustle of angels' wings hovering about

VOL. III. N

Diana as she lay, and bearing a message of
comfort, as they whispered that for her there
was yet to be a new sweet link with time, 
a link which would bind her more closely to
the blessed dead, and in whose life she might
live again.

SHALL I ?

Doing is activity, and he will still he doings
Where's thy conscience nowV

*' Well, Diego, think you that I shall yet
charge my bride in the red wine out of the
amber goblet ? How does Lady Panmure bear
the loss of her husband ? "

Mr. Cantilupe lingered over the utterance
of the last word, and drew his thin lips together
as if to taste the flavour of his hideous
and accomplished purpose. He had been
thwarted, and the thwarting had cost him
instigation to a deadly deed. Diego had just
returned from Ireland, where he had been

N 2

whispering and watching for the last two
months,

** Lady Panmure lies unconscious," he said
in his guttural tones. *' I saw five doctors
enter Monklees in consultation ; and I made
inquiries at the lodge, and the woman wailed
after the manner of the Irish, and said, ' My
lady is dying.' "

That's the description of love I covet,
Diego ; few women are capable of a great love ;
they are slenderly constructed, I take it, in
every way. The widow consoles herself with
another husband a year hence. She is so
stricken down with grief that she must bury
her sorrow in the distractions of a new love.
Like cures like.

"So Lady Panmure is likely to die of
her grief ? She will be an exception to her
sex. Granted, though there are more ways
than one of dying ; and The Diana is exceptional

 that is why she made herself desirable
to me. I fear she will never console herself
after the manner of other women, though
Bombazine and Cupid agree remarkably well.
Forgive me laughing, Diego. A little knowledge
of life makes a man laugh  a great
knowledge makes a man sneer ; still the sneer
must never show up. The more you know
of life the greater your desire to hide your
sneer in the Stoic's calm.

** You have done your work well, and you
will be well paid. You are this day a rich
man. You have only hissed in the ear of a
disloyal and maddened people, and the hiss
did the deed  not you. Ireland is saturated
with the burning fluid of rebellion. A match
is thrown down here and there, and nobody
sees, or knows, or cares who throws it. Instigation
is the soul of intrigue  intrigue is
full of resources, versatile as tact itself. Intrigue

rarely gets found out. Our success in
this instance has been won at the cost of a
life; but Pouf !  to attain an object, you
must have no dainty scruples.

*' I have attained one end, I may lose the
other. Diego, believe me, it is hardly likely
that I shall charge my bride in the red wine.
I think, though I went down on my knees
before her, and entreated her to be mine, she
is so alien to our bombazine widows and our
easily consoled young ladies, that she would
say with a tremble of the lip that I know,
I am waiting to rejoin my husband.' She
stole a ray from eternity, I think, when she
loved Sir Blaise. Still, one day I will ask
her. At any rate, the Alps are levelled ; I
can walk over a plateau to her."

Master, what can you want with a
wife when you can have the pieces ? " said
Diego, at last breaking silence and chuckling ;

the pretty pieces, which are our best
friends."

Mr. Cantilupe hushed strangely.

Look here, Diego. I'm a bad man ; but
at the root of my badness lies a desire to
secure perfection. When I beheld The Diana,
I desired her because she had the blended
beauty of mind and body which masters me.
As I said before, I'm a bad man ; but not all
bad, because I worship perfection. Yet is
not this the worst desire that can afflict the
human mind ?

My bride must be rare. I must look into
her eyes, and read untranslatable regions of
thought. Every gesture must be full of
cultivated meaning. My bride must be rare,
rarer than the exotics which crowd our
conservatories. You must say, What flower
is this ? From whence does it come ? You
will 'cavil at it, if you have no imagination,

or an imagination which cannot reach out
farther than the length of your arm, if you
are a person yet living in the dark ages when
fingers were forks ; for the race has not progressed
so rapidly as the use of forks might
have generated.  You will say of this flower,
It is fantastic ; I do not understand it ; I
cannot make out the meaning; or the lano;uao[e
of this flower.' That is the bride for me 
this is The Diana.

How profoundly uninteresting are the
mass of women !  how dull !  how commonplace
!  Mediocrity ! Think you I would
mate with mediocrity  the mind of a cook or a
housemaid in the trappings and caressing
of a duchess ? Think you my bride shall
cackle her ' toujours perdrix ' in my ear ?
Bah ! I am talking to you, Diego, with ease,
because the Alps are levelled. Tm a bad man,
but I talk at ease.

I must have excellent points in my bride.
Take her hands and feet. The rosy colouring
across the palm of Diana is like the inside of
a shell which some old sea-god has kissed in
sport beneath the waves. Each finger curls
upward exquisitely. Her wrists are fine.

Then her form. What outline ! Her
lips ! Perugino might have painted them
With some of his vermilion, but 'tis Nature's
rich, rare red. The Duce di Cantilupe can
discover all this at a glance ; but then our
unhappy Duce was born in Some ; and Rome
is not London  eh, Diego ? No wonder
Englishwomen, as a rule, walk badly, and
are graceless and stiff, or jerky and floppy,
when they have no lessons in marble in every
street and house to train their eyes''

The Diana can so walk across a stretch of
ugly pavement, that she turns the very stones
into accessories. But I rave. I am an

ardent lover. Yes, I will give her one year
to wear her bombazine  one year to wipe
away her tears ; and then I will pipe to her
of such love as the old gods summoned their
instruments to relate. I will show her how
the Italians can love and hate with equal
vehemence."

*' Love the pieces, master," said Diego.
They will do you no harm. Love the pretty
pieces, and make them your bride."

But Mr. Cantilupe waved Diego from his
presence, and sat down to write.

MRS. battle's discrimination.

Thai ivhich is added to the troubled 2')nst
Is tall en from the future, loose sad store
Grows less and less each day, till soon the last
Dull leave of woe shall break upon our shore'*

What is it that we seek ? Enjoyment 1 We have cut the
way short to it, and riot gone tracking it through pitman
ashes."

I MUST see Father Enables."

It was thus Diana showed her return to
everyday life. For weeks, after the realization
of her loss, she had sat propped up by
pillows in an armchair in her bedroom at
Monklees, watching the clouds chasing one
another, and taking no interest in her surroundings.

Mrs. Battle was sitting beside
Diana's chair. She had dispLayed far greater
tact and discernment than Job's comforters,
never venturing to intermeddle with this
grief, which seemed to her so awful and so
unfathomable in its silence.

When her Joseph died  dear, dear, the
condolences, the crape, the deep-edged paper,
the choosing of the tombstone, the selection
of an appropriate text, the call from the
clergyman, the reading of the will, the pressing
of refreshment upon her from kindly neighbours,
the refusal of all refreshment, and
the gradual giving way to their solicitations,
the tear-shedding in common,  all this had
been a very tonic to her, and kept her up,
had been a description of excitement to her ;
for to uncultivated natures, however kindly,
there is an awful excitement in death ; the
details of an illness are eagerly discussed,

and tears, sighs, excitement, and gossip are
mixed up in a strange medley. Among the
very poor this peculiarity of human nature
is beheld in its most flagrant aspect.

Poor bedridden Martha Blossom was seen
to jump from her couch to the window,
exclaiming in a voice which had lost all its
minor key, " There is a funeral, as I'm alive ! "

'Tis only to the finely strung and highest
caste that the Nemesis, with its attendant
train of silent witnesses to sin, is awful, and
the details appalling.

Yes ; I must see Father Enables," repeated
Diana. "Mrs. Battle, I shall leave
Monklees for London tomorrow."

Mrs. Battle wisely did not gainsay her ;
and, when the doctor said action of any sort
was the best possible cure for Lady Panmure,
she gladly made all the necessary preparations
for their departure.

When Diana found herself once more in

the little drawing-room at M Street, she

gave way for the first time to a flood of tears.
The fearlessness of her grief had made her
seem unapproachable to Mrs. Battle ; at this
sign of naturalness, her kindly arms were about
Diana, and words of ready sympathy flowing
from her lips.

** You were his wife. Think, if he had gone
to Ireland alone, and you had been carrying
on your dramatic recitals as Miss Beauchamp,
how far, far worse it would have been ! Now
you can have a mausoleum day ; if you 'will,
you can stand up before your dead, and meet
the world's sympathy  your trouble is before
the world.

'' Dear heart, I'm not clever, but I can
find out where comfort lurks. Believe me,
there is comfort in this  the worst sorrows
are those for which the world has some disdain

and some pity  sorrows which wisdom
demands shall be fought out in silence, which
shed tears in secret and smile before society.
This you have escaped ; you are Lady Panmure.
You can carry on his noble work 
you can make the name* of Panmure glorious
for its charity. Believe me, terrible as your
trial is, it is gilded with some blessed days of
comfort."

T/iis is how I will dedicate my life," said
Diana, sobbing  " it shall be lived out in
carrying on his work. My beloved Blaise will
say I have fulfilled all his desires when we meet
again. But, oh ! if only I could find some clue
to the "

Yes," interposed' Mrs. Battle hastily, '' I am
always wondering what motive there could be,
when Sir Blaise was so popular."

'* All his tenants blessed him," said Diana,
sobbing on Mrs. Battle's shoulder. " The Irish

are wonderfully warm-hearted and grateful when
once they attach themselves."

We shall never find out," said Mrs. Battle ;
for this is only one instance among many ;
the wretches get off to america, or some remote
country, and disguise themselves. Ireland is
as bad as Russia  it's a conspiracy ; only, I
suppose, the Irish want a king and the Nihilists
want to get rid of theirs. What would the
Irish do with their king if they had one ?
Crown him with shamrocks, and feed him on
potatoes ? How would it be to hand over
Ireland to one of our princes ? The thought
has just struck me." 

But Diana made no reply. Her sorrow was
green ; no grass had grown over its grave.
'Tis when life begins to assert itself on its old
lines, and outside talk begins to clang around
you, that yet another blow is hammered on
the faithful heart. To go on as if there is

nothing when for you the gladness of life is
gone  when for you a very madness of recollection
is strewn in every word and deed.
No wonder grief is shrouded in a hundred
forms, according to its intensity.

Your sorrow is before the world," said Mrs.
Battle, going back with wonderful tact to the
solace Diana had not rejected. "The world
applauds a faithful heart. Look at our Queen ;
but then, on the other hand, look at Prince
Albert. I think ladies who marry again show
some discontent with their first husbands.
Meet with your ideal, and no second marriage
is likely to accrue.

Mrs. Dampyy, I hear, is married to Mr.
Wimple. She will live to regret the late
Lieutenant more and more. When I was
last in Leominster, Mr. Bovin told me that
Mr. Wimble had been something dreadful
over the settlements  insuring poor Mrs.

VOL. III. o

Dcampy's life the day before the wedding, and

dragging her about all over the place to do

so. A bank broke, and some of poor Mrs.

Dampyy 's eggs were lodged in it. Of course,

she did not put all her eggs in one basket.


Wise woman !  wise in most things, but not

wise as regards Mr. Wimple. These underwriters
are a very shrewd, hard-headed set of
people, I believe.

I heard all about Miss Masters, too,
and Major Clintock. He is back again from
Egypt ; never, fortunately, having seen a
shot fired. However, he joined in the festivities
at Cairo ; but that was like a schoolboy,
who has done no work, munching plumage
at the break-up feast with the best of
them."

I have not read Francisca's letter," said
Diana. " Is she married yet ? "

"Yes," said Mrs. Battle; "but there cire

some who would rather have the memory of
a perfect union, however short, than long
years of that sort of thing."

Mrs. Battle's little efforts to cheer Diana
were quite pathetic. She was straining after
sentiments she had dimly grasped in Diana,
and now this terrible sorrow, in which she,
in as far as she could, shared, was quickening
her intellect. " Even I can enter into this for
you, and there never was a more unimaginative,
every-day, practical person than myself."

Diana did not reply ; her sorrow had
reached another stage. The babble of a voice
at her ear seemed to lull her. She had a past
to live in, a future ; to brave but the present
moment was one of cessation from pain. The
exhausted mind was stilled ; the mental
anguish was dulled. The bright shining of the
wood fire, the glowing background of shadows,
the delicate beauty of the half - disclosed



flowers which decorated the room, the faint
fragrance they distilled,  all these things of
sense and sound were creeping about their
own department of her being, and appealing
to their own portion of the strange combination
of spirit, mind, and matter which forms
our whole.

Beneath the window an organ struck up.
Here was a direct link with past and present.
The air was one of lazy grace ; the last time
Diana had heard it, Blaise and she were sitting
side by side at Monk lees, and had discussed
their mutual pleasure in the existence of organ-grinders.


We will have one of these piano organs
at Whitefriars, Di," Sir Blaise had said, "and
you shall turn the handle ; " and then he had
gone on to picture scenes which would knit
them still nearer to each other  a very sacrament
of recollection was entwined about the

tune, and now she must listen to its plaintive
strains alone.

'* Let me send the man away," said Mrs.
Battle anxiously.

*' No, no ; give him this purse, and let him
play on," said Diana ; *' he, too, must have
many recollections mingling with those melodies
to which his struggling existence is set.
Keep me from selfishness, the worst product
of grief''

COUNSEL.

' Thou art amid the deathless; I still here amid things
mortal in a land of graves"

'aloud! loud! loud!
Loud I call to you, my love !
High and clear I shoot my voice over the icaces :
Surely you must know who is here, is here ;
You must know) who I am, my love"

Father Enables had soon made his way

to M Street ; he had been horror-stricken

at the terrible news of the murder of Sir
Blaise, and felt deeply interested in Lady
Panmure.

Why Father Yenables had not become a
*Vert' was a question many people asked

themselves. He had been one of Cardinal

M 's most intimate friends. Yet he had

remained in the Church of England, only
carrying out a splendid service, which never,
however, infringed the law.

He had an appearance which at once singled
him out for the contemplative life. Sir Blaise
had said he was like Fra Angelica's conceptions
of " The Christ ; " but most observers
were startled by his extraordinary likeness to
the supposed original portrait of our Saviour 
the long hair, and eyes with their starry fixity,
born of long vigils, the delicate profile  all
were here.

When Father Enables had made the
acquaintance of Sir Blaise, he had penetrated
into his character ; he had seen exactly
where he stood in spiritual life,  full
of energy, full of enthusiasm, ready to
sacrifice himself and all that was his in

his devotion to the cause. The inward
comment of Father Enables had been  This
man must join me. No medium course will
do for him  no medium course of a man of
his form of mind is possible. And he had
spoken to Sir Blaise something after this
fashion :

"We inculcate a severe discipline a watchful
guard on the lips, and on the life. We
preach the hidden life with Christ ; and,
above all, we preach humility in the service
of Acid."

I sometimes think I should find faith
lost in sight if I join you," said Sir Blaise.
"And surely to exercise faith it should essay
its powers without props. Your perfectly
conducted service will seem like a prop tome."


This is the Puritan creed," said Father
Enables, smiling. "The Puritans, in the

extremity of their zeal, would have robbed
the flowers of their glory of hue and fragrance
; birds of their gay plumage and
wonderful songs ; the sky of its shifting
beauty of light and shade ; and decked
Nature, as they did human nature, in the
grey garment of perpetual mourning. Does
music charm you ? "

Yes," had said Sir Blaise ; *' my whole
being responds to it ; it uplifts me, and
purifies my senses according as it is conceived
in purity."

You shall have music," answered Father
Yenables ; " not only the organ, with its sublime
breathing, but stringed instruments, all
so sweetly modulated, that sometimes you may
fancy that already the pearly gates have opened
to receive you, and you are treading the streets
of gold.

Does symbolism teach you anything ? does

it appeal to you ? is there in its mysterious
spirit teaching something which touches the
delicate fibres of your being, and makes you
enter more fully into the deep sayings of
Him who delighted to reveal His attributes
by the approximation of symbols as His own
insignia ?

You shall have symbols ; every pillar of
our churches shall be full of teaching ; every
nook and crevice shall have some hidden meaning
; on our altars fresh flowers shall uplift
themselves each day, and speak of Him who
gloried in likening Himself to these fair creatures
of His hand.

"The Church has more than doctrines to
inculcate ; her divine mission extends throughout
every form and sacrament of life ; she must
refine and elevate, and give the tone to the
manners of her members ; she must soften rough
ways, and, like the Kindly Light, lead on and up

by drawing the weapons of all fine arts and
graceful accomplishments to herself, and turning
them to her own use.

*the Church must truly mother her children,
and bend a gracious and glad ear on the genius
which now bursts forth in poesie or painting,
or music or sculpture. She must teach her
children to dedicate all their glorious gifts
to her service ; so shall she gather to herself
more and more devoted lives, as we tread her
happy courts, and feel the beneficence of
her smile. I would press our modern painters
into the service of our churches ; I would
say:

' ' Go, beautify our walls ; go, show your
gratitude for the gift that has made you famous
to Him who has thus endowed you. Is your
brush to make the canvas speak only for the
world, and never for '' the Christ ? " '

I would say to our modern sculptors : ' Go,

carve a pillar for us ; go, build us a bell
tower, which shall be the wonder of the world.'

The Finish Church pressed all her gifted
children into her service. Why should the
English Church do less ? '"'

When the Christ comes, do you think He
will look to His altars ?. will He not rather
look to the hearts of his people ? " had said Sir
Blaise.

'' Yes," answered Father Enables, a pale
illumination making his face seem yet more
unearthly in its spirituality ; " yes, He will look
to the hearts of His people ; and He will look
at all the works they have wrought for Him, and
the delight and gladness they have shown in His
service."

As he spoke, Sir Blaise had laid his hand on
Father Enables's shoulder, and said, '' Let me
come under your influence, and be built up in
this aspect of our faith."

Such was Father Enables, who was carrying
on an extraordinary work in the East End,
and was now about to be introduced into the
life of Diana, under these altered circumstances.


He found her sitting on a tabouret close to
the fire, her face buried in her hands ; so lost
in thought that she neither heard him cano



bounced, nor was conscious of his presence till
he spoke.

Lady Panmure."

Something in the modulated yet penetrating
tone of his voice touched a new spring in Diana.
She felt as if the bearer of a message from her
own Blaise had come to her. This man had
exercised a powerful influence over him ; he
doubtless would also over her.

Elinor lie looked at him through a mist of
tears, and said simply, ' You have come to
teach me Stow to bear my grief. You will

show me how it can be made bearable tome."


And, sitting down beside her, Father Enables
brought more comfort and sweetness to
her soul than she had experienced since her
sorrow.

WHAT NOW?

There is the power of complexions, obviously modifying the
dispositions and sentiments.''

Mr. Cantilufe, who vigilantly watched the
movements of Diana, was soon in possession of
the turn events had taken in her life. Father
Enables was constantly with her, giving her
his counsel, and helping her to bear her
sorrow, in as far as one human being can help
another.

Whether or no he should call and offer his
condolences at the present moment, was the
question he was constantly revolving. At
last he decided to call, and the role he would

play was so perfectly sketched in his mind,
that he had but the impromptu filling in, and
this to a man of his intrigue was no difficult
matter. He was not likely to falter and breakdown
in a love-game which was so nearly played
out.

"I could not bear to witness your grief,"
he said, as he gently clasped Diana's hand, on
his first interview. " But, believe me, I have
lived in your sorrow, though I have made no
sign. I have been in daily communication
with you by those subtle means which despise
the bond our bodies would hold us in. Sir
Blaise, from the moment I saw him, exercised
a fascination over me. I was ready to sacrifice
myself for him, the moment I saw how far
happier you would be with him than in carrying
on your dramatic recitals. And the sacrifice
cut deeper. Ah, Lady Panmure, all great
love is unselfish ! If I have been unselfish.

you have taught me to be so. All I ask of
you is this, let me come and share in your
sorrow ; let me come and talk of Sir Blaise."

Then he sat down beside Lady Panmure,
unutterable dejection in his attitude ; he went
on to explain how he had hurried from the
Western Highlands at the news of Diana's
trouble, merely to be near her.

Diana felt it to be a terrible strain to sit
and listen to-Mr. Cantilupe now. She had
lived her life since they had last met  for we
cannot count out the living of our life by
years, but by events ; still gratitude prevented
her showing any touch of weariness, for she
believed him to be sincere in his admiration
of Sir Blaise ; and certainly he had shown much
generosity of sentiment regarding herself  and
grand traits much impressed Diana.

I shall carry on my husband's work at

Whitefriars," she said. " The village homes
VOL. in. . p

%4g\ ,,

\.

will be completed shortly, and Father Enables
has a friend who will be my private chaplain.
My time is all marked out now."

Great sorrows," said Mr. Cantilupe meditatively,
" always take one of two effects 
drive people into or from the world. On a
nature such as yours, the latter result would of
course accrue. ' The devotional life has always
had attractions for me."

Mrs. Battle, who was never absent when Mr.
Cantilupe was present, at this drew her white
knitted shawl more closely about her shoulders,
and shivered.

"If I am a sinner, I might have been a
saint," he said, smiling at this expression of Mrs.
Battle's sentiments. " The greatest sinners lave
made the greatest saints. Shall I prove it ? "

Again Mrs. Battle shivered. Was this man
about to appear as an angel of light next, and
still twine himself about the life of Lady

Panmure '? At that moment she felt herself
prepared to accept any theory about the
emissaries of the Evil One darling themselves
as human beings, and walking about the
earth. She would have grasped the German
theory of vampires. She would have listened
to any doctrine, however extravagant.

And yet she could prove nothing against
him, as he sate there with his singular appearance
and unruffled calm ; only, if it were
a matter of evidence, she could prove things
in his favour. Yet, does instinct go for
voting ? Why should not instinct be as
faithful in its teaching as any other of
those subtle guides, which whisper of immortality,
and quicken our spiritual apprehensions
?

Clever people can prove anything, Mr.
Cantilupe," she said slowly ; '' even their own

goodness."

.P 2

A slight smile hovered about Mr. Cantilupe's
lips, the curves of which were just visible beneath
his iron-grey moustache. He had found some
amusement in Mrs. Battle's dislike to himself.

*' I can enter into the spirit of those men
and women who, sickened with life, fled into
monasteries and nunneries, and passed their
days in preparation for death : the highest
natures are sometimes tempted to such
extravagances now."

Mr. Cantilupe was watching Diana ; this
mood would fit hers.

*' I have a friend. Lady Panmure," he
continued, "my most intimate friend a priest
who, in the midst of a brilliant career, suddenly
threw up all earthly prospects to lead
a monk's life ; he is my father confessor. It
was in the middle of the revels at a masquerade
ball in Rome that a sense of the deeper
significance, indicated by the dress of the

masqueraders, swept across him. He declares
he had a vision ; whether it was really so,
who can say 1 People are sceptical about this
vision ; anyhow, the whole course of his life
was altered. He joined the Jesuit Fathers, an
order I esteem highly."

Are they not unscrupulous men ? " said
:\lrs. Battle. " I know I fear them."

Their motto, ' The end justifies the means
may sound alarming, Mrs. Battle ; but do
not some ends justify the means ? Your
English Church has been built upon the
stake ' ; your English Constitution bought
at the price of a series of blood-shedding
rebellions. Have the ends justified the
means '? Perfection is only attained at awful
sacrifices in the world of Art and Nature,
and human nature "

What was the vision of your friend ? "
said Diana.

Mr. Cantilupe drew his chair an inch
nearer to the couch on which Lady Panmure
was half reclining, and said  " It was a vision
of self-sacrifice ; I have learnt something of
this."

Diana made no answer ; she wished Mr.
Cantilupe would go away. Perhaps he saw
the desire in her half-closed eyes, for rising,
he said  " You are not strong. Mrs. Battle
will take great care of you ; she must not
allow you to be reckless of yourself. I think,
as an old friend, I have a rirht to beo- her todo
SO."

Mrs. Battle made no reply ; she was too
angry for speech ; and Diana, thinking again
of his generosity, murmured  " You are always
so kind ! "

And with this consolation Mr. Cantilupe
left ; but after the door had closed behind
him, Diana gave way to a paroxysm of tears.

Should she ever overcome her weariness of life ?
Should she ever feel as if it was yet sweet to
breathe the breath of life ?

To have sunned herself in a love so perfect
as that of Sir Blaise's ; to have found in him
a combination so extraordinary  that in the
love he had bestowed upon her, all elements
seemed to be combined ; and then to be robbed
in one fell moment of her joy by the hand of
an assassin !

How could she ever again find any interest
in the things which had once interested her ?
Every intellectual aspiration, every response,
even to the voices of Nature, had died within
her.

INFANT VOICES.

past ! happy life ! songs of joy !
In the air, in the hoods, over fields.
Loved ! loved ! loved ! loved ! loved !
But my mate no more, no more with me /
We two together no more."

Valt Whitman.

The crowning joy of a love marriage should
consist, surely, in the delight with which a
mother finds that the child has the stamp of
his father's individuality. Diana, as she had
honor over the cradle of the infant Blaise  God's
best gift to her  was never weary of discovering
some fresh expression in those baby features
which foreshadowed that the father would live
in the son.

Five years have passed since this precious

child had been priced in Diana's outstretched
amis ; and in the clinging of those baby hands
about her neck, the life which had died down
in her had commenced to pulse once more. She
must smile for baby's sake. She must forget
herself in his dependence on her.

In the library at Whitefriars, in the deep
window-sill, Diana is sitting ; and the little
Blaise is as usual by her side, with his small
dimpled hand thrust into hers. He is talking
of his father. Diana and he are always so
talking. His long, dark, curly hair is streaming
down his shoulders ; for Diana cannot make up
her mind to have it cut yet.

T am like papa," he is saying ; and his
words are as perfectly pronounced as if he had
long been an inhabitant of these regions. But
Diana had never talked to him with any difference
of tone or accent, as most people do when
addressing children.

111 Leominster, to-clay, mammy, a lady
stopped Mrs. Battle, and lie said, ' The boy
features " his father.' What did she mean ? "

Diana smiled, and said, " That was Mrs.
Bovin's remark." Then Diana kissed his little
upturned face, and said, " Meant, darling, that
you are like papa ; and so you are."

I want to see papa, mammy. Shall I see
him soon ? Can't we go up in the clouds to
him now ? .Do you think, if we prayed, God
would send an angel to take us ? "

Perhaps God wants to keep us here, Blaine
darling, for a little time ; so that you may
grow up to be a man, and do all papa left you
to do."

I will be a good boy, mammy. I will be a
great man. I will read all these books. Shall I
be a great man then ? " He had jumped down
from his seat in the window-sill, and was sweeping
his baby hands along some of the lower

shelves, crammed with books. '' 1 can 'spell out
long words now."

You can. You are mammy's own Loy,"
said Diana proudly.

*' Then when I have read all these " (he
clasped his little arms as if to embrace all
those mighty works), "then I will go and
fight for you and the Queen. Yes, I Avill
fight "  and now he doubled up his fists,
and threw himself into attitude  " I will fight
every Frenchman and German 1 come across."

Why, Blaise, you wanted to go up in the
clouds a minute ago ; and if you are going to
fight everybody, you won't be fit to be where
there is no fio-htino:."

Mammy, sometimes I want to fight, and
sometimes to pray. I feels so naughty and so
good." The only baby trick the little Blaise had
in talking, was the adding on of an " s," and
Diana had vainly tried to correct this peculiarity.

Some Frenchman, looking at the child, had
said, in Diana's hearing, *' Tres diahleou ires an(/e"

I don't care for toys," he went on, his upper
lips curling in scorn ; " bits of glass Joss
Clintock plays with, and cries if he can't hit
one marble against another. Give me books ;
don't 2:ive me marbles."

I wish you would play at marbles, and be
more like other boys," said Diana, passing her
fingers through his long curls. *' I keep you
as much a baby as I can. I think you are too
much with mammy, though."

But at this, the proud sensitive lips of the
child trembled, and the next minute he was
sobbing passionately, as he flung his arms round
his mother's neck, and cried out,

Oh ! keep me near you always. Never leave
me, mammy ; I will play marbles with Joss.
I will, indeed I will. I'll be like other boys."

And it was long before Diana could pacify

him, and bring him back to his defiant desire
to fight everybody and everything for herself
and the Queen.

Many changes have taken pLace at AVhite-
friars ; the village homes are complete and in
happy working order. Diana visits each
cottage once a week, and the children veritably
kiss her shadow as she moves amongst them.
In the chapel stands the tomb of Sir Blaise.
A life-size figure in marble surmounts it, and
the mornings and evening sun streams down
each day on Diana's kneeling figure, as she
joins in the glorious services of our Church
at matins and evensono*.

o

Two years after the death of Sir Blaise,
Mr, Cantilupe had played the last bar of his
love-song. He had thrown himself at the
feet of Diana, and had entreated her to become
his wife. He had spared not an argument ;
he had thrown off every disguise in which.

before her, lie had hitherto cloaked his love.
He had shown her how it is possible to conceive
a great passion, and to carry it on for
years against frightful odds ; but he had not
added, smiting down every impediment in his
way  he had some reserve on this point. Mrs.
Battle had been an unwilling listener to that
interview.

On a bleak November night, when Diana
and she were sittings in the drawings-room at
Whitefriars, Mr. Cantilupe had been announced,
and Mrs. Battle, for once desiring to escape
from the presence of which she had now lost
all fear, had made a frantic rush to the porters
which draped a door usually left open, but to
her infinite vexation she now found locked ; so
behind the curtains she had to remain, ashamed
to come out and confess the failure of her
attempt.

It would be as well to narrate her description

of that interview, during a confidential chat
with Mrs. Bovin, over one of the hereditary
tea-cakes, which seemed to have a happy
facility for letting loose the tongue of all Mrs.
Bovin's circle. Mrs. Bovin had suggested
the probability of Lady Pan mure marrying
again.

*' ' Mr. Bovin says she is more charming
than ever,' she said. But a rent-roll such
as hers would make anybody charming. Not
but what you will remember my remark of
long ago  as to her being a very taking
young lady. But money  money is the
great god with most men. [Here Mrs.
Bovin's long '' crow " came in with admirable
effect.]

I don't hesitate to say Mr. Bovin had an
eye to my thousands when he married me. I
do?i't blame 1dm, Mrs. Battle. A lady without
money has ofttimes a hard life with her

liusbciiid. Slice has no commercial value in
his eyes. And a husband can make you feel
it Ashen his temper gets up. Thanks to my
modest income  which is laid out to great
advantage ; no two or three per cents, for
Mr. Bovin  I have seen nothing of the
temper said to exist, and the existence of
which I doit deny  I have seen nothing of
his temper."

"Apprehension is nearly as bad as realization,"
said Mrs. Battle, shaking her head.

"Maybe," said Mrs. Bovin. "I dont draw
my own cheques. This I consider rather
hard. But Mr. Bovin says he has sunk my
funds in landed property. I have not seen
the landed property, but it's unbecoming in us
waves to be too curious. We must give the
men the strings, and let them drive. I know
my place, and keep it.

"The other day Mr. Bovin hinted the

Chatham and Dover were about to run a line
of railway in the direction of this property,
and he said, ' If we sell it, I need hardly say
you shall feel the benefit When a husband
says so much, he is an excellent, worthy man."

Another cup of tea had by this time been
poured out for each lady, and Mrs. Bovin
repeated her query, '' Will Lady Panmure
marry again ? "

No," said Mrs. Battle. " She is rare she
is faithful ; she will not marry again."

The reason for my asking," said Mrs.
Bovin, now placing her teacup on the small
table at her side, and clasping her capable-looking
hands in front of her, " is this-Mr.
Cantilupe has been in the neighbourhood. Mr.
Bovin went to London in the same train a few
days ago, and, to use his own words, which I
prefer employing to my own, ' The charlatan
looked distracted.' "

VOL. III. Q

Then Mrs. Battle sipped her tea, smiling ;
and looked out of the window, still smiling,
and finally burst out 

Talk of love, Mrs. Bovin ! I was the
unwilling witness of his mad attachment to
Lady Panmure. If I look pale to-day, 'tis no
wonder; for the last two nights I have been
unable to sleep. I thought of Mr. Battle's
calm ways when he offered to me ; but I see
now men are various in every way. Calm ! 
he twas calm. Cool !  he was cool. He said off
his proposal like a verse of poetry. Never
faltered once  not once."

Then she went on to describe her capture
between the curtains ; and made Mrs. Bovin
laugh till the tears streamed from her eyes.

*'I dreaded that man," Mrs. Battle had
continued, " till I found he had no hold on
Lady Panmure; when the intellectual spell
was broken, I ceased to fear. He threw

himself at her feet, and this time he was not
acting ; he appealed to her intellect ; he
appealed to her gratitude. The passion in him
made the passion of the wind and the rain
outside as nothing."

Good gracious ! Mrs. Battle," said Mrs.
Bovin suddenly, " do you think he had
anything to do with the murder of Sir
Blaise ? "

* Why, no," said Mrs. Battle, whitening ;
' serpent as he is, I don't think he is so
bad as that. These murders in Ireland are
not the work of one or two, but of a community,
I take it. If Lady Panmure thought
this, it would kill her."

Never breathe it then," said Mrs. Bovin ;
but it has flashed across me."

*' You know the opinion I have always
entertained of Mr. Cantilupe, and yet I never
thought of this," said Mrs. Battle.

Q 2

It is dangerous even to suggest it," said
Mrs. Bovin ; "as a lawyer's wife, I know
this. Do let the idea escape you as quickly
as possible. Have another cup of tea."

'' Dear, dear," said Mrs. Battle, " you have
frightened me. I always said he would
work Lady Panmure some harm, but I never
thought of tlds, especially when he was so
amiable over her wedding  even gave her
away ; and his presents on the occasion were
magnificent."

** Lawyers would call that a bad sign," said
Mrs. Bovin ; " the quiet people are always
the most dangerous ; but take my advice,
and never mention the subject to Lady
Panmure."

"When Mr. Cantilupe left her on that
evening, he said he should go to Italy," said
Mrs Battle. "I wonder has he done so?
He confessed he was the Duce di Cantilupe,

and of the same family as Hortense chi
Cantilupe, whom Sir Blaise thought so like
Lady Panmure. When Mr. Cantilupe mentioned
this Hortense, Lady Panmure began
to cry ; and then, do you know, the evil
spirit seemed cast out of him, for he gave
up his wild speeches and wilder gesticulations ;
and, peeping behind the curtains, I saw him
stand and look at her as some one might look
for the last time on the ' destiny ' of their
lives, and he said 

* Forgive me ! '

'then he caught her hand, and pressed it
to his lips, and was gone. He loved her ; I
must own he loved her. It was a description
of love, Mrs. Bovin, that people like you and
me can't quite understand. We see something
strange, but we don't know what it
means ; anyhow, Fve learnt this, love is
various. Mr. Cantilupe, or the Duce (which

even we may call him), was as deep as those
ancients he was always quoting ; deep every
way  in love and in the details of life."

Mrs. Bovin nodded. She hardly cared to
be linked with Mrs. Battle with regard to
the understanding ; but they were dear friends ;
and, of course, there was a mystery encompassing
some people which it was not easy
even for a lawyer's wife to decipher.

That night," continued Mrs. Battle, " Lady
Panmure never retired to rest. T know she
did not ; for, after repeatedly going to her
door, and listening, I at last went in, and I
found her kneeling on her prie-dieu, looking
as white as the lily in that vase.

There was no rest that niojht for Lady
Panmure. She said the wind moaned so in
the trees, and that sometimes she felt frightened
at life, it was full of such masked
people, and there was in everybody such a

frightful power for good and evil ; and then
she added, ' I wish I had never seen Mr.
Cantilupe ; he is so subtle, and so strange.'
We have never seen him since'

Come, come," said Mrs. Bovin jocularly,
" you look quite low. I must make
you laugh. I've a piece of news for you.
Guess ! "

A marriage, I suppose," said Mrs. Battle,
twinkling. " Is it the doctor 1 "

"The doctor, no," said Mrs. Bovin. "The
wonder is doctors ever do marry. They seethe
frail side of the body, and the clergy
the frail side of the spirit. It's enough
to dispirit both parties ; but you are not
so far distant. What do you say to Miss
Edwards ? "

Oh, my good gracious ! " said Mrs. Battle.

Yes, and stop a bit. Who do you think to ?
In with the county will she be at last ; she was

always a kite-flier. What would you say to
Squire Musgrave ? "

"Oh, my good gracious ! " again reiterated
Mrs. Battle.

It came about in the oddest way in the
world. I believe Miss Edwards got hold of
the right derivation of some word at a
luncheon party, and Squire Musgrave said,
That's the woman for me ; she will find out
the derivation of everything that puzzles me,
for I get more foggy every day of my life.'
He has a sense of humour, has the Squire.
He asked her the derivation of the verb to
love, and out she came with a Ion or strings of
Greek and Latin, and goodness knows what ;
and the Squire found such sport in her old-fashioned
ways, that he asked her to head his
table."

This time, Mrs. Battle went back to her
favourite surprise valve, " Dear, dear ! "

THE Duc DI Castille.

*' These particular griefs and crimes are the foliage and fruit
of such trees as lue see growing.'

Only that good profits which ive can taste with all doors
open, and which serves all men."

Yes, we mme pause in sorrow and silence over the depths of
darkness that are in man, if hoe rejoice in the heights of
purer vision he has attained to such things lore and are
in man, in cl men, in us too''

In a monastery, a few leagues from Kome, lay
a man dying : that man was the Duce di Cantus
! It was the eve of the New Year, and
before it had entered he would have passed
away.

Diego was standing at the head of the

small wooden bedstead on which he was reclining,
and several monks were gathered at the
foot.

For one year the Duce had lived in their
midst as a guest, promising to join their
Order at the expiration of the year. Of his
past life he had never spoken, and they had
asked him no question ; but now, in the face
of his departure, he expressed a desire to make
a confession.

One of the brothers advanced and held a
crucifix to his lips. After kissing it, he raised
himself with an effort, and in a low voice
commenced to speak :

Only to such as you would I make my
confession. I would ask no mercy from the
world ; I know it too well to crave its pity.
From my entrance into life, I may say I
despised the race to which I belonged. As a
boy, looking up at the stars, I wondered

whether the inhabitants were nobler and better
than the inhabitants of the world in which
I found my lot cast. I looked out on the
shifting phantasmagoria in which I was to
play my part, and decided that the race I so
profoundly despised should be my tools and
playthings ; I would trade on their weaknesses,
and make the money I needed out of their
foibles,

"I consulted the mirror, and found the
person it reflected would aid me in my life
role,

I put myself through a rigorous course
of learning  I knew that knowledge was
power.

"I set up a secret society, to ferret out by
constant watching and various intrigues the
private histories of individuals who held leading
positions in the capitals of Europe. I found
the means of introducing myself to their

presence ; and, by hints and innuendoes, managed
to get all I required from them. I
gained an ascendency through fear. I pretended
to have a prophetic eye. My country-people
thought I had the evil eye, and they
would shoot out their fingers behind' their
backs when I passed  after the manner of our
race. I discovered for myself that my glance
was singular in its effect on people ; I used it,
by the study of mesmerism.

'' I added music to my accomplishments.
 A man who plays so divinely must be good,'
said some.

I was a welcome guest at many houses by
this means alone. I made my fingers, as they
pressed the keys, tell out life's tale  now in
the mad frolic of unlicensed passion, and now
in the wailing dirge of the penitent.

* Your fingers are bewitched,' some said ;
and I let them think so. If to be sold over to

the Evil One is to be bewitched, then, indeed,
I was bewitched.

*' Yet, can you believe me, I had yearnings
after better things. I had the makings of a
saint within me, for all this. I had a restless
craving after perfection ; I surrounded myself
with the rare, the curious, the beautiful.
Sometimes, in our churches, the figure of the
Christ stretched out on the Cross appealed
strangely to me ; and I thought, could I
reverence the race through this dying Saviour ?
But these were my better moments.

Then the love of women came to me
unsought. They found something singular in
me. I traded on their love ; I used them as
pitilessly as I used every person and thing
that came in my way, tossing them from me
when wearied, as you would a scentless flower.
I thought I could not love ; I knew too much
about women  false and selfish, stupid and

uninteresting. I was callous to their charms.
I thought I could see farther than most, only
to use it to my own advancement.

I grew rich. I could have retired from my
role ; but this game had become interesting.
To play the mystic was second nature. Besides,
human foibles had made me rich, and now I
could use them as playthings. I could add to
my curious collection each day. This human
race, to which I had the honour to belong,
with its unctuous smiles for the prosperous,
and its pitiless frowns for the poor ; with its
cold stare for those a rung lower on the social
ladder, and its winning smile for those a step
higher  how I despised it, as I braved to it,
smiled at it, and traded on it by turn !

Then was brought to my notice a beautiful
and gifted girl, for whom at once I felt a
subtle sympathy and an intoxicating love.

/, who am dying, yet feel as I think of

her the same strange longing for her presence
near me ; even this grim foe which is
beckoning me hence, this masterful Death,
cannot quench the deep passion I entertain
for her.

"Most men are iron to-day, brass tomorrow,
some other metal next day, but I

Like steel was my love, and like a man in
steel did I fight through a deadly sin to win
her.

I could not sacrifice myself for her. I
could not see her Panmure's wife and breathe
the air of life.

I felt within me the impulse of a wounded
tiger ; T felt  God !  that he must be got
out of the way. I watched, I waited, I was.
remorseless as  eh ! as Death itself. I felt
that if he were out of the way, I might winsome
sort of love from her  some attenuated
spectral love if you will  some mild intellectual

appreciation, which would link her tome.
But I have anticipated the sequel.

I wooed her ; she, for long, did not perceive
my drift. I disguised (as it has ever
been easy for me to disguise) my real sentiments.
I masked my passion ; I had but one
enemy, and that was Mrs. Battle ; simple soul,
she yet found me out ; she  with her clumsy
apprehensions of all that is subtle  she discovered
my passion ; and she, I know, constantly
warned Miss Beauchamp against me.

"I wooed her. At last The Diana saw what
I meant ; she could not bear her ambition to
be thwarted. She is not faultless yet she is
peerless; she blinded herself as best she could,
and rushed on to win her goal. And I, finding
I could gain no hold on her except the hold
of gratitude  let it be so  and set to work to
raise, if I could, a mountain of gratitude
upon which to build up my unquenchable

desire to win her yet. I, who had used the
race before, must now be used in my turn.
I wooed her ; but it was of no avail,  she
married Panmure.

'* And now, draw nearer, for all my other
sins  sins I have no time so much as to sketch
seem as nothing in comparison with the
evil I did her. Tell me  to instigate, to whisper,
to incite  is that as bad as murder ? Does that
make a man guilty ? "

The shadowy hands of the Duce were thrust
forward towards the monks as if to catch their
answer.

According to the law of Jesu, it is as bad,"
said the monk who held the crucifix  advancing
and again pressing it to the lips of the dying
man.

The Duce lent back, and groaned.

I am guilty, then. The death of Panmure
must be laid at my door. I caused a whisper

VOL. III. R

against him amongst his tenantry. / did no
more. Who shot him, I know not. The
whisper was insidiously dropped ; little by
little I had their minds poisoned against him
so that in the state of the country it was
like throwing down a match. Diego, here,
was the agent I employed, and he did his work
well."

You paid me for it, master. I am ready todo
anything for the scud!'

The law could not deal with you,
Duce," said one of the monks, who had
been a notary before he had joined the
brotherhood. " The world is full of whisperers
and instigators, and they go unpunished.
The matter rests with your
conscience, and with the Blessed Virgin.
She will plead for you with the Holy
Jesu, and we will pray for the rest of your
soul."

Would Lady Panmure forgive me if she
knew ? " said the dying man.

If she loves the Holy Jest, yes' said the
monk who held the crucifix.

She is devout, now," said the Duce. " She
spends hours kneeling in the chapel where Sir
Blaise is laid."

Take comfort, then, she will forgive you ;
and as she is at peace concerning her husband,
I would not let her mind be disturbed with
communications which can only cause the buried
past to rise again."

The Duce sighed as if relieved, and whispered,
Pray for me."

Kneeling round the bed, the monks commenced
a monotonous chant, which now mingled
with the tolling of distant bells, and now floated
out and onwards, breaking the still air with the
fervour of their souls, as they sang of the healing
virtues of the Holy Cross.

Meantime the Duce lay in an apparent state
of unconsciousness.

j, * * *

It was not till the great bell of the chapel
swung out an imperious call to Mass, that the
monks rose from their knees, and, bending
over him, whispered to one another  " He is
dead ! "

