CHAPTER I.

MARIE



CHAPTER II.

Prob

MADAME BOBINEAU 84

CHAPTER III.

AT THE hotel BEAUREGARD . . . .111

CHAPTER IV.

CAPTAIN LOIGEROT INDULGES HIS CURIOSITY . 132

CHAPTER V.
Marie's lodging 146-

CHAPTER Via
morning walk 159

J3art 11. Jttabam Carxrugc.

CHAPTER I.
AT breakfast 175

CHAPTER II.
his faint heart 193

CHAPTER III.

Page

BOBINEAU LOSES HER SUPPER . . , .208

CHAPTER IV.

HOPE AND FEAR 227

CHAPTER y.

THE BEAR-PIT 243

prologue.

CHAPTER I.

BESIDE A Mountain.

It is noonday in June in one of the old
towns of Southern France. A girl stands
beside a fountain in the middle of a grass-grown
square. She is tall, and although
her shabby old clothes are badly made they
reveal a beautiful figure ; her face and head
are hidden by the bright orange kerchief
that shields her from the scorching sunshine
; as she places her tall brown pitcher
beneath the spout of the fountain, her
movements are full of languid grace.

VOL. I. B

Mon Dieu ! " she says impatiently, " the
heat is insupportable, it stifles, me."

The square is indeed like an oven ; she
leans against the fountain and closes her
eyes ; its very stones smell as if they were
baking, the persiennes of the houses that
border it are all closed, and there is not a
sound or a movement, not so much as a cat
stirring. Surely every one is asleep !

No ! behind one pair of green barred
shutters two small keen eyes greedily
note the perfection of the girl's figure
and the indolent grace with which she
leans against the old fountain. The owner
of the eyes thinks she must have fallen
asleep, she is so still.

Her orange kerchief casts so deep a
shadow that the concealed observer cannot
make out her face, but he feels sure it
matches her figure. At last she slowly
rouses, and he watches her lift the

brimming pitcher away from the slender
silver thread of water she had set flowing;
he sees that she rebels against her task,
for as the heavy pitcher strains her wrists
she stamps impatiently on the burning
pebbles, and tilts the pitcher so that a
third of the water flows away.

The unseen gazer smiles ; the action
has told him something about this fair
creature ; he knows well how scarce water
is in the old southern town, and he
stands watching intently till the girl places
the pitcher on her head and moves slowly
out of sight.

The big, full-fed-looking man who has
watched her rubs his hands slowly together;
his small eyes are twinkling with
satisfaction. He turns away from the
window of the eating-room, where the
flies buzz noisily in the pane, and rings
for the waiter.

B 2

That worthy is fast asleep, his napkin
over his head to keep the flies away, but
the sharp tinkle of the bell rouses him
from his nap. He whisks the napkin
from his ugly face, and in a moment
he stands blinking and obsequiously bow-inch
before Monsieur Carouse.

You are noted in Abeyron here for
beauty among your women'' he says, 'ris
it not so ? "

Ma foi, monsieur," the waiter shrugs
his shoulders, '* this is the first time I
have been made aware of the circumstance."


'' You do not use your eyes, my lad ; a
girl was here just now filling her pitcher
from the fountain. I did not see her face,
but her figure is admirable. I have no
doubt there are many like her in the
town."

The waiter grins.

' There are many girls in Abeyron  ah
yes, without doubt monsieur is right,
there are plenty of girls  and there are
many also who come to our fountain,
the fountain of the ' White Swan,' monsieur,
to fill their pitchers; but," here he
flicks his napkin and throws it again
on his shoulder, ' monsieur must excuse
my ignorance, I do not call to mind
much difference among them as they stand
laughing and chatting together."

Monsieur utters a small private imprecation,
then he puts his hand in his
pocket and pulls out a couple of francs.

*' Look here," he says, " sharpen your
memory, my lad ; it will possibly be to
your advantage to do so. Who is the
tall, well-formed girl that comes alone
to the fountain at this time of day ?
She wears an orange-coloured handkerchief,
and, judging by her manner, I

.should say she has not always been
obliged to can her own pitcher to and
from the fountain."

The waiter's eyes twinkle, but he turns
them up and then down, as if he were
still chasing his memory for an answer
to his customer's question.

"There," growls Monsieur Carouse ashe
holds out a five-franc piece, "try if
that will help you."

It is really extraordinary to see the
rapidity with which the waiter's dirty
brown hand grasps and pockets the
coin. His manner changes as rapidly,
and he bows almost to the ground,
for although Abeyron is visited now and
then by wealthy French and Swiss traders,
it is quite out of the track of tourists,
and gratuities are rare at the " White
Swan."

Can it be"  the waiter's greasy, clay-coloured
face begins to show a gleam of

intelligence  " that monsieur has seen

Mademoiselle Elvire "

' Yes' says Monsieur Carouse,  I have
no doubt that's her name  a tall, fine
girl, I tell you," he adds, so impatiently
that a grin comes again into the waiters
face.

"Yes, yes," he says, "it is no doubt
Elvire, she lives with her mother herein
Abeyron ; and monsieur has guessed
right when he said Elvire had not always
carried her own pitcher to and from the
fountain." He puts his head on one side,
and looks admiringly at Carouse. An
impatient movement, and a fiery glance,
however, that is shot out of those small
black eyes, make him hurry out his next
words. "She lived in plenty once, monsieur,
for she is well-born, her father was
noble  Marquis or Count, ma foi," he
shrugs his shoulders, "I forget which,
but I think  yes, monsieur, he was Marquis

che the title, however, escapes me.

Well, monsieur," he whisks his napkin
at the flies, "years ago, before Elvire
was born, this gentleman came and took
up his quarters in a large farmhouse in
the environs. It has been said that he
ruined himself by gambling, but no one
knew. Well, monsieur, one day he was
married at the village church to the
farmer s daughter ; they were also married
at the Mairie. Oh, yes, monsieur, it was
a regular marriage''

Confound the marriage," Carouse says
brutally, " is the father alive or dead ? "

The waiter bows.

Monsieur, he is dead ; when Elvire
was ten or eleven years old, her whither
took a fever, and in a few days they
buried him. And when the girl was a
few years older, the farmer had an
apoplexy, and he died also ; and then the

truth came out, he was no better than a
beggar. He had been raising money on
his farm and his stock till he owed more
than the sale of the whole would repay ;
and there was nothing left for the widow
and her child but a very meagre sum
that Monsieur le Marquis had designed for
his daughter's education when she became
twelve years old. It was, however, decided
by the notary and the Maire that the
widow must be allowed to keep it ; it
was all she had, and therefore Elvire
could not go to school ; her grandfather
had refused to send her while he was
alive, because he said he could not part
from the girl, but people know now that
he had no money to pay for teaching."

*how do they, then, live?"

'* Well, monsieur, that fine girl you
admire, and Madame Fontaine, must find
it precious hard work to get along when

provisions are as dear as they are now,
and sugar a franc and a half the kilo. Mon
Dieu, many a beggar, who has not a
roof to cover him, fares better than
they do."

Why do you call the woman Madame
Fontaine ? You said you could not remember
the father's name."

Pardon, monsieur, I cannot recall his
real name. He called himself Monsieur
Fontaine after he came to these parts,
though I am told he signed his real name
at the Mairie on his marriage."

Carouse sits thinking.

'* Don't they try to earn a living ? " he
says.

Pardon, monsieur. What will you ?
They have not been brought up to work,
for the farmer kept servants till he died ;
and besides, they are proud, they will
not mix with those who are poor like

themselves. I have been told that not
long ago, a restaurant keeper from Marseilles
 he is the brother of our landlady
here' he jerks his head towards the
bureau  ' well, monsieur, he was staying
here, and he saw Elvire, as  as  monsieur
has seen her. He wished at once to
secure her as demoiselle de comptoir, and
he made, through our madame, his sister,
as monsieur remembers, a quite superb
offer for the services of the girl, and he
said, too, that he would find a home for
the mother. Pouf ! '' he snaps his fingers.
' They refuse, they are even indignant ;
and the mother has told our mistress
that she has sworn to her husband Elvire
shall never work for her living, shall never,
indeed, do any servile work. Mon Dieu,
monsieur," he adds with a laugh, ' the
girl, I am told, keeps her mother to her
promise."

I don't know about that," says Carouse,
** I saw her drawing water at the fountain
just now."

The waiter gives a sly, sleepy smile ;
he is tired with telling Elvire's story, and
he longs to go back to his nap.

Elvire will do that, oh yes, monsieur ;
it gives her what women love, a little
change and the chance of being seen ;
indoors she is lazy. But her mother
has said to me : ' Elvire will not cook or
clean, I do everything,' and when I have
answered : * You should make her help,
madame,' she says to me : ' You do not
understand, my good man, it is the good
blood in my child, it cannot lie ; she will
marry a gentleman one of these days.' "

Here the waiter jerks his thumb ina
contemptuous fashion, and Monsieur
Carouse smiles.

* You interest me in these poor women.

As you seem to be acquainted with Madame
fontaine," lie says, "you may tell her that
a gentleman wishes to call on her this
evening, on business matters."

The waiter looks knowing: and inquisitive,
but Monsieur Carouse turns his
back on him and begins to light a fresh
cigar.

AT NUMBER Twenty-five.

When dinner at the '' White Swan " was
over and the few other guests had departed,
Jean the waiter approached Monsieur
Carouse and told him with an air
of mystery that Madame Fontaine would
be pleased to see him.

Carouse waited to finish his cigar, and
then having arranged his whiskers and
moustache in the glass, he gave himself upto
Jean's guidance.

They crossed the square and the principal
street, and then after two or three turns
entered a narrow, dirty lane, with an
unsavoury gutter in the middle and old
rickety-looking houses on either side.

Here Jean came to a stop.

Monsieur," he bowed, '' I beg pardon,
but I am wanted at the hotel ; if monsieur
will have the complaisance to remember
that Madame Fontaine lives at No. 25
aic quatrieme. I have the honour to wish
monsieur good evening."

Carouse went on, looking carefully at
the numbers, some of which were nearly
obliterated on the decaying doors, and
when he reached what he fancied must be
No. 25, the door stood open, and he had
to pull it forward, for he could not make
out in the gloom of the passage what the
number really was.

It was not dark when he had entered
the street, but its narrowness and the
height of the houses, and then the absence
of a staircase window, made the entrance
of No. 25 very dismal-looking.

Pah ! " Carouse said, and he put his

handkerchief to his nose, for the close air
of the house disgusted him. "I have
heard that choice flowers will bloom on
dunghills ; certainly my blossom may well
wish to change her lodgings. Pah ! "

He had to spit by the time he had
climbed to the fourth landing of the unsavoury
staircase.

He knocked against the wall without
troubling himself to find the door. He
heard footsteps, and then a door opened
and a flicker of light showed itself.

Will monsieur come in ? '' a voice said.

*' Good evening, madame and mademoiselle,"
and he entered.

Carouse found himself in the poorest,
most comfortless-looking room he had ever
been in. A table, a few chairs, and some
boxes were the sole furniture, besides a low
bedstead which had not even hangings, ina
far-off corner of the gaunt, dismal garret.

A glance, as he bowed on entering, showed
him that Madame Fontaine had opened the
door, and that she had a hungry, eager
face, sharpened out of all beauty, though
her dark eyes were still bright.

He looked for Elvire ; she stood beside
the table, apparently as indifferent to his
presence as if she were some beautiful
statue. Even when he bowed she only
bent her head slightly.

Madame Fontaine was striking a match,
and when she had lit a candle on the table
Carouse stood gazing in breathless admiration
at Elvire. He saw a perfect oval
face, glowing with rich colour ; the girl's
splendid dark eyes were half shadowed by
their long lashes, and her heavy eyebrows
drew together in a slight frown as he continued
to gaze at her ; he saw, too, that her
lovely lips had a disdainful pout on them.
He forced himself to turn from her to

VOL. I. C

her mother. She had placed for him one
of her wretched-looking chairs, and Carouse
sat down on it, feeling as if it might give
way under him and send him sprawling
on the dirty floor. There was, too, something
repulsive in the torn, greasy-looking
cushion ; but he sat down on it.

'madame'* he said, "pardon my intrusion.
My name is Carouse. In Paris, I
had the great good fortune of knowing
monsieur, your father ; he was kind tome,
and I should be glad of an opportunity
of returning his kindness to me.
I am now on my way to Paris ; can I
have the pleasure of executing any commission
with which you may honour me ? "

He gave a side-glance at Elvire, and was
glad to see that she listened and that she
had left off frowning.

The mother stared at him, and then she
stretched out both hands.

*Ah, monsieur, you are kind. You
who knew my father can tell me what he
would feel to see us now, in the abject
misery in which you find us; there are days,
monsieur, I vow to God and the blessed
Mary, when the child and I have scarcely
bread enough to eat."

The woman had not seated herself, she
stood before him at a little distance swaying
herself to and fro.

Something dark swept past Carouse, and
then he saw that Elvire's shapely hands
were grasping her mothers shoulders and
forensic her into a chair.

Do not, for pity, if not for shame," he
heard her whisper, and then the girl went
back to her place and stood as much like a
statue as ever. Carouse waited to see what
would happen, although he already guessed
that he should not find Madame Fontaine
hard to deal with.

c 2

Monsieur," lie whined, '* you are kind ;
but is it likely that such as we have money
to spend in Paris ? Ah, monsieur, may you
never know what it is to be poor '*

She stopped so suddenly that Carouse
guessed some gesture of her daughter's had
checked her.

*' Perhaps," he said, "madame will permit
me the honour of bringing her a keepsake
from Paris, as monsieur her father would
have done."

Madame poured out her thanks vociferously
; but Carouse felt, without looking
round at Elvire, that he had best make his
visit as brief as possible.

He rose and made a low bow to Madame
Fontaine.

Then, madame, permit me to say Au
revow" he said, and he took her hand and,
shaking it, left something in her palm.
"I will repeat my visit on my return

from Paris, with the permission of madame
and of mademoiselle." He had turned
round as he spoke and he bowed profoundly
to Elvire, but though she bent slightly in
return, she neither spoke nor smiled, and
Carouse felt a little afraid of her.

She looked like a disguised princess,"
he said to himself as he went down the
filthy staircase. ' Splendid creature ! I
must have her at any price."

When he reached the street he breathed
more freely; even the unsavoury gutter was
less sickening than the foul air of that
stifling house.

It's all right," he thought ; " she is not
angry with me, she is only mad that I
should see her in such a hole and in such a
gown  only fit for a rag-picker. We shall
see how she looks in the gowns I shall buy
in Paris. She will let her mother sell her
only to get out of that disgusting house ;

but the mother will ask a good price."  He
rubbed his fat, ringed fingers together as he
went along.  "Elvire is worth any money."

It was quite by chance that he had
stopped in this old town, and he had
originally had no intention of returning
to it.

The sight of this girl had altered all
his plans.

He hurried on to Paris next morning ;
when he found that business would keep
him there a fortnight he could hardly
bear the delay. He bought dresses,
bonnets, trinkets, lace, shawls, all that he
thought likely to please Elvire ; and when
at last he was able to return to the ' White
Swan," he sent the boxes containing his
gifts to Madame Fontaine, with the compliments
of Monsieur Carouse.

TEMPTED.

Elvire had been to the fountain, and she
had remained longer than usual. She had
not forgiven her mother for exposing their
misery to Monsieur Carouse. There had
been a violent quarrel after his departure,
and the girl had been ever since
more sullen and silent than before. She
felt very cross to-day as she toiled up
the steep staircase with the pitcher of
water, to her wretched home.

She turned the handle of the door and
kicked it open with her foot. Then she
stood still, stood with parted lips, staring

at the fairy spectacle that gleamed in the
midst of those squalid surroundings. All
the old boxes and chairs were placed in
the centre of the room, and on these were
lying the most beautiful things that the
girl had ever seen. Seen ! She had never
even dreamed that anything could be so
beautiful. Beside them her mother looked
a beggar. Elvire set down her pitcher
and came forward slowly, for she thought
she must be dreaming.

** What do you say now, spoiled child ? "
Her mother had the accent of a peasant ;
she spoke quite differently from Elvire ;
her gestures even were quite unlike her
daughter's. 'these are gifts from your
grandfather's friend, the kind, good Monsieur
Carouse you have said such hard
things about."

Elvire had taken one of the bonnets
in her hand ; at this she let it fall.

'mother," she drew up her head, and
stood looking very tall and proud, " I
am ashamed of you ; put all those things
back into their wrappings, and send them
back to that hateful man. Oh ! " she
stamped her foot, " I hate him worse than
ever. I was not happy, but I did not
know what I wanted, I did not know
there were such beautiful things ; and
now," she said passionately, *' I shall long
for them." She turned away, and leaned
her head against the wall.

Her mother stood looking at her.

She had found out long ago that it
was easier to deceive her daughter than to
soften her, so now she took an injured tone.

What are you making this noise
about ? " she said with a sneer. ** Why
may I not have luck sometimes ? These
are my gifts, not yours ; you have only
to read the address on the covers."

Elvire hesitated. She began to look
again at the treasures, and as she gazed
and then touched the dainty, soft stuffs,
and fingered the lace and the ribbons,
she softened. There was nothing very
valuable among them, but to her savage
ignorance all these lovely things seemed
priceless.

Madame Fontaine pushed forward a
quiet gray gown, evidently meant for
herself. " I will try it on," she said,
'and you, too, can put on that white
one, and if it fits you you shall have
it."

She unfastened Elvire's gown as she
spoke and quickly slipped the white one
over her beautiful shoulders.

Madame Fontaine was ignorant, but
her natural cunning helped her now.
Carouse had sent a mirror among his
gifts. She rapidly fastened up the graceful
dress, and then placing the bonnet,

which Elvire had admired, on her coils
of dark hair, she set the glass in front
of the girl.

Elvire was usually self-contained ; she
had lived loner enough with her father
to notice his ways, and she had an unconscious
contempt for her mother's lack
of reserve  probably she had inherited
this also from the dead marquis  but at
the sight of the radiant creature in the
mirror, whose nectarine-like skin contrasted
so vividly with the pearly tints of her
gown and the cloud-like lace near her
face, she laughed out loud.

Am I like that ? Oh, mother, is that
really me ? "

She j&xed her sparkling eyes, roused
out of their sombre, downcast beauty, on
Madame Fontaine's face.

*' Yes, yes, you are like that," the
woman said ; " have I not always told
you, that if you had patience to wait

some rich gentleman would come and see
your beauty and give you everything you
wished for ? "

The girl started and then stood thinking.
Presently she said :

But you told me," her voice had gone
back to its discontented tone, ** that it
was to be some one young, and gay, and
bright ; your friend is old and ugly  he
only stares at me, he does not talk to me''

Her mother patted her shoulder.

For how short a time you saw him,
child ! "

Elvire shrank away.

"Be careful, mother, you may soil the
lovely dress."

Madame Fontaine did not seem offended,
she only wiped her hand on her old gown.

He will talk to you when he comes
again ; a young man ! bah ! a young
man would not be so generous. See
here," she drew out a string of beads.

*' you have not seen half his gifts ; you
must see them, or you will not thank
him as you ought."

Elvire stared at her. The smile had
died out of her face, she began to frown
heavily ; she set the bonnet down on a
chair, and unfastened her gown at the
throat.

Stop ! do not take it off, child.
Monsieur Carouse will be sure to pay usa
visit, and I should like him to see how
nice you look."

Elvire's answer was to tear off the gown,
and to stand in her coarse under-skirt,
her beautiful bosom heaving with passion,
a bright flush on her face.

I knew you were foolish," she said
angrily, *now I know you are wicked
too ; you forget that Jean gives me newspapers,
and that I have read what
happens to poor girls who take presents
from rich gentlemen. You cannot think

that this man has given you these things,
and that he expects nothing in return ! "

But her mother was a match for her
now. She looked shocked.

Ciel 1 Child, how can you talk so ?
He expects to marry you. Are you going
to say No to him ? "

Elvire still stared doggedly, but she
was appeased ; she breathed more quietly,
and presently she began to examine a
small lace tie that her mother had spread
out for her inspection.

A student of human nature would have
been interested by this indication of
Elvire's natural taste ; she had never
before handled any fine lace, and her
mother would not have known whether
it was good or bad, for although doubtless
in the family of " the marquis " there
had been hoards of these costly cobwebs,
all had been swept away in the wreck

that overtook him before he made his
appearance in Abeyron.

' Marriage is different," she said at last ;
are you sure, mother, he wants to marry
me''

Madame Fontaine in her heart was not
scrupulous, she was keenly, hungrily anxious
to make some profit out of Elvire's remarkable
beauty, but she was superstitious also :
she had sworn to her husband that the girl
should never work for her living. This
rich man had appeared like a providence,
and she was determined he should be her
daughter's husband. It seemed to her that
a rich marriage was the only secure provision
for Elvire. She wanted to be rid of her,
and spend the rest of her days in idleness.

'you are not obedient, my child," the
woman said with a half-laugh ; *' but if
you do what I tell you, all will happen
as you wish. Put that gown on again,

and sit down quietly while I fold up the
rest of the things."

Monsieur Carouse came, and he was
simply infatuated with Elvire's appearance :
the girl was even more beautiful in
daylight than he had believed her to be ;
and a certain self-respect that came to
her in her new attire took away the
brooding cloud of discontent which had
marred her expression. She received him
graciously, and she smiled while he talked
to her of all he had seen in Paris, but she
did not thank him for his gifts, he had
offered them to her mother, she said to
herself, and she might thank him.

Madame Fontaine was busy at the other
end of the room till her visitor rose to go.
When he had taken leave she followed
him out on to the dirty landing, and then,
spite of remonstrances, down-stairs. There

was a somewhat prolonged conference, and
when Carouse came out into the narrow
street, he looked savage, and muttered hard
words against Madame Fontaine until he
reached the *' White Swan."

At the end of a week Elvire left Abeyron
as the wife of Monsieur Carouse. When
it came to the point her mother cried at
parting from her beautiful child, for she
had promised Carouse that she would never
seek out or even make inquiry for Elvire ;
certainly she was in return to be paid
every month the sum of one hundred
francs. There would be no more hunger, no
more work in the life of Madame Fontaine.

She had gained her pension easily.
Elvire was as indolent as she was by
nature luxurious. She had craved ardently
for ease and comfort, as well as for all
that makes life beautiful, and though she

VOL. I. D

was only nineteen, she was already aware
that money could give her what she
wanted. To her half-savage, undeveloped
nature, poverty meant all that was hard,
hideous, and disgraceful, and she felt grateful
to Monsieur Carouse.

When Carouse and his bride started for
Berne he was a little troubled by the
joy with which Elvire said good-bye to
her mother and her squalid home. But
he soon forgot this. He loitered on the
way to give time for his commissions at
Berne to be executed ; and when he brought
his beautiful wife to the dainty nest he
had provided for her, a few miles out of
Berne, the girl's delight in the fresh glitter
of her surroundings charmed him. It
seemed to Elvire that she had found all
she wished for in these showily furnished
rooms, where she could see herself reflected
from head to foot in tall mirrors, and

lounge away the day on soft couches ; or
if she wished for air, there was a charming
garden full of flowers to wander in.

But there was more than this ; there
was a steady, silent, middle-aged woman,
half companion, half maid, to relieve her
of every trouble, and Carouse constantly
brought home some new present to his
beautiful idol.

She was to him a lovely doll, who
amused him by her fresh, pleasant talk,
pleased him by her gratitude, and charmed
his eyes by her beauty and the supple
grace of her movements. He did not
trouble himself about anything more.

He told her that he was the proprietor
of a hotel in Berne, but this only interested
her in connection with the dainty dishes
and excellent wine he constantly brought
home from this Hotel Beauregard. For
the present, Elvire seemed utterly ind

2

curious about the world beyond her
garden ; Carouse congratulated himself on
having secured such a prize, and as weeks
rolled by the peace and pleasure of his
life seemed secure.

The truth was, that Elvire had already
tired of his idolatry ; but in spite
of her selfishness she was grateful ; she
felt that she owed this new life entirely
to her husband ; and she resolved not to
lose her position by her own fault. She
felt that her quiet, self-controlled housekeeper
watched her closely, and something
warned her that Carouse would
be very severe if she disobeyed him in
the smallest matter. So she kept within
the garden, which was large enough to
afford her a good deal of exercise, and
by nature she was too indolent to care
for long walks.

Meantime, Madame Carouse was growing

every day, both in face and figure, more
beautiful.

Twice her husband drove her into
Berne, but he took care to choose a
dull time of year for these visits, and
after the second Elvire said Berne was a
stupid, uninteresting place, and that she
did not wish to be taken there ao-ain.

o

But all transition periods must come to
an end. Her first ambitions were satisfied
she had become accustomed to be well fed,
to be elegantly dressed ; other desires began
to germinate in Elvire, and their growth made
her restless. Instead of lying for hours on
her delicious sofa, she paced up and down
with impatient steps. The room seemed to
have become small and confined ; she felt in
it like some poor caged bird. She spent
much of her time in the garden, peering
through the bars of the iron gate, while she
wondered what was happening in the world

outside, and stared curiously at the few
passers-by. She was ashamed of her
discontent, and she said nothing to her
husband ; but he soon remarked that she
had lost her spirits. Her silence troubled
him.

He questioned the duenna, for he could
see that Elvire was not ill.

She wants change," the woman said ;
"the sameness of the place mopes her.
Take her away for a week or so."

Carouse shook his head.

'you are imbecile," he said. 'how
can I give her change ? I cannot leave
my business at this time of year. Why
don't you get her some fancy needlework,
something that will interest her ? What is
the use of you," he added savagely, ''if
you cannot keep a girl like that amused ? "

The remedy was tried, but it failed.
Elvire amused herself for an hour or two

in examining the work, and admiring the
colours of the embroidery silks, but soon
rolled it up again.  I do not like needlework''
she said, and she became more
and more silent and absent.

One evening Carouse called out abruptly:
*' What ails you, child ? "

Elvire fixed her dark, liquid eyes on
his face, her cheeks glowed till he thought
they looked like nectarines.

Shall I tell you ? " she said gravely.

Yes, little one, tell me ; " but he was
startled by the new expression he met
in her eyes, as she placed herself in front
of him.

Elvire had already rehearsed this scene;
she knew it must come, and she knew what
she wanted to say, but now it had come it
was not easy. She could hardly get her
words out ; but she saw that his foot beat
impatiently up and down, while he waited.

At last abruptly, almost harshly, her
words came: *' I am tired of my life. I
want to live in Berne  to see other people,
to do as they do  every day is alike in
this place."

An oath burst from Carouse, but the
girl turned so pale that he saw he must
control himself. He poured out some wine,
and when he had drunk it he forced a smile.

"Why, my angel, do I not make you
happy here ? "

She looked at him gratefully, with tears
in her eyes.

"I am not complaining of you, Jean.
You have been very good to me, but
you are not always here, and I am alone
and dull all day. I"  she looked at him
shyly  " I want to see other ladies ; I
want to see if I am like them. I can
only read and write, I think ladies can
do many other things."

Diable ! who has put this in your
head ? Ladies do many things best left
undone' he said harshly.  You are
quite clever enough for me, my girl, and
I like you as you are." He drew her to
him as he said this, but she struggled
away from him and stood silent an instant,
her eyes flashing, her bosom heaving, with
roused passion.

I belong to myself as well as to you,"
she said at last. " I am not clever enough
for myself, I know nothing. How can I
know anything while I live cooped up
like a slave ? "

Carouse swore fiercely.

*A wife has only got to please her
husband," he answered doggedly ; "it is
my pleasure that you stay here. You
must make yourself happy the best way
you can."

He expected she would burst out crying

and that he should pacify her by the
promise of a new gown or a trinket, but to
his surprise she turned away proudly and
in silence, and went out of the room.

For a whole week she sulked and pouted
in his presence, and cried passionately when
she was alone ; but Carouse remained
obstinate. At the end of ten days his
young wife had become pale and thin,
and there was a desperate look in her
eyes. He became more frightened than
he cared to own, and he proposed a compromise.
He told her she must continue to
live at the villa in the same secluded way
as before  this was necessary as a matter
of business, he said  but an old professor
should come out from Berne and teach
her all she wanted to learn.

Elvire's gratitude was as vehement asher
passion had been, and she delighted her
husband by her renewed sweetness.

When the old professor came she received
iii kindly ; she took a liking to him, and
for about two years she worked hard at the
studies he marked out for her guidance.

The new occupation kept her from
brooding. He brought her books and
showed her how to use the books of
history and travel, and some carefully
chosen biographies.

Carouse had been firm on one point ;
he had forbidden the professor to give his
pupil any love-stories. It never occurred
to him that such subjects will occasionally
trespass into history, and that a woman
may love an idea.

A NEW LIFE.

Elvire proved wonderfully apt. She
learned to speak and to write correctly ;
she took pleasure in the old-fashioned
knowledge her master could teach ; her
spirits revived, and Carouse congratulated
himself on his management.

But there was one great drawback he
had not counted on, and this was fatal
to the happiness produced in Elvire by this
mental cultivation. Although love of books
and of study had subdued her restlessness
and had filled Her mind with new thoughts.

it revealed to her that her husband was
coarser and less congenial than she had
thought him. He had no real sympathy
with her studies, for he yawned when
she spoke of them, and she soon felt ita
hardship to be obliged to put away her
books when he came home of an evening.

Carouse was not sensitive, but her indifference
to his presence mortified him,
and when the old professor died he openly
rejoiced.

**ril have no more teaching here," he
said; sphere's been too much of it. You
can teach yourself if you want to learn anymore,
but I think you know quite enough."

Elvire was very angry ; she flew into
a passion with her husband, but this time
Carouse remained obstinate.

"Then I will give up my studies," she
said in the hope of making her husband
provide her with another teacher; but it

was a dangerous experiment. She soon lost
her love of study and she went back to her
indolent, do-nothing ways again.

*' I wish I could sleep life away," she said
despairingly. The house was no longer
in her eyes a daintily furnished nest, it
had become a prison, and Carouse was her
jailer.

Usually she was quiet with him, answering
only when spoken to. Twice lately,
however, she had shown her husband that
she had a violent temper and a stubborn
will.

He had brought the first outbreak on

o

himself, by a rough remark on her silence.
The man had had a worried day, and
he had looked forward to a cheerful
evening ; he brought home a large bouquet
of rarer flowers than those in the garden,
and also a basket of fine peaches and figs.
When he offered his gifts Elvire thanked

him, and for a while she hung over her
flowers with delight. In the evening,
however, she was as silent as ever, and
then Caroline told her, with a good deal
of unnecessary bluster, that she was
ungrateful.

*' I no longer owe you any gratitude,"
she said passionately ; " you treat me worse
than you would dare treat a servant. By
what right do you shut me up here like
a nun ? Let me out, I will see the
world!"

He answered her brutally ; and for some
days after that he stayed in Berne, in
the hope that complete solitude would
bring her to her senses. But when he
next saw her, she was just as silent and
indifferent, and although he had sworn
to himself that he would never give her
another chance of attacking him, his
patience failed at last, and he burst into

a volley of reproaches as they sat at
dinner together.

It was autumn ; the light above her
flashed on her glowing face, and on the
fire that burned in her eyes, and in spite
of his anger, Carouse thought she looked
superb as she rose from table.

*'I do not suit you," she said, in such
a harsh voice that he started, it was so
unlike her own ; " very well ; you have
tried me, and I have failed to suit you.
I was weary enough before you began
this persecution ; I will not submit to it,
Jean Carouse ; I shall go back to my
mother. With her, at least, I was free ;
here I am only a slave, a prisoner in a
gilded cage, and when I ask for natural
freedom, for the opportunity of seeing my
fellow-creatures, you give me a harsh
refusal. You think that gifts can soften
tyranny. Never, never, Jean Carouse !

I belonged to humanity before I belonged
to you, and I ask for my right, the right
of every free-born woman."

This time Carouse did not swear, her
tragic manner quieted him ; he looked at
her with puzzled eyes, for he knew that if
the beautiful, vehement creature chose to
run away, he might find it difficult to
trace her. Something in her eyes told him
that coercion, or any detected vigilance,
would only hasten her flight.

When he was alone, he sat plunged in
thought. His cunning suggested that
there must be a reason for this change
in his wife; at first he suspected that
she had found a lover, but he knew that
this was impossible without the connivance
of the housekeeper, and she was always
disposed to speak unfavourably of her
mistress, whose reserve and haughty
manner made the woman's life irksome.

VOL. I. B

Still he questioned her minutely, but
he could find no ground for such a
suspicion.

On his way back to Berne, it occurred
to Carouse that he had been a fool to
interfere with her studies ; he had seen
none of this violence and sulkiness while
she took lessons of the old professor.
Why had he not found her a new
teacher? He had certainly reaped no advantage
from leaving her to herself. He
began to see that idleness did not agree
with his wife's temper, for he considered
the unpleasant change in Elvire mere
temper, now that he had assured himself
that he need not fear he had a rival.

He could not all at once replace the
old professor, but he could try the effect
of some new books, and he went into a
bookseller's and purchased several volumes,
having first specified to the showman that

he wished for travels or history. He
smiled as he told himself that he was
not going to trust his wife with novels.
He rarely indulged her with a newspaper,
though she often asked for one.

But the books met with an indifferent
reception ; Elvire looked at them carelessly
enough. 'thank you," she said,
** they come too late ; my taste for reading
is over."

Fortunately for Carouse there came a
spell of rainy weather, and one morning,
after walking up and down the room for
an hour, Elvire flung herself on a sofa
and opened a book of travels. She soon
became interested, and at the end of a
few weeks, when she had read some of
the other volumes, she asked her husband
to bring her more books, and thanked
him for the pleasure these had given.

He was delighted. She had become

E 2

gentler, and the sombre, clouded expression
had left her eyes.

Carouse was wise enough to understand
that this newly awakened taste
must be encouraged if he wished to keep
wild ideas out of his beautiful wife's head.
He need not, however, have feared that
Elvire would have attempted to riiu
away. She had only threatened it in
the violence of her indignation. Even
when such a fancy suggested itself, u
double motive checked it. She saw that ii
would be foolish to risk so much comfort
and ease for a mere whim. Something
warned her that her husband would never
forgive such an act of disobedience. Withal
his fond worship Carouse had inspired
her with a very restraining fear. If she did
anything to make him cast her off she knew
that she must either go back to her mother
to her shabby clothes and scanty food, oi

she must work to earn her living, and
this last idea was almost worse than
the other. Also, to do her justice, she
still felt grateful to her husband for his
kindness and his constant gifts.

If Carouse had been a reader he would
have stuck to his first idea in catering
for his wife. Unluckily he had a great
admiration for Englishwomen ; he thought
them simple and modest, the books they
read could not surely hurt Elvire.

So one day he came home in a very
gay mood.

See, my angel," he said, " I have
brought you a present. When I was
young, a good many years ago, these pretty
gilded little books were left at the Beauregard
by an English Meet. My father
told me to keep them till they were
claimed ; but they have never been asked
for. I found them to-day in a box, so

there they are ; they are yours, my
beauty."

Elvire admired the dainty little volumes ;
she looked at their titles: 'paul et Virginie,"
''Mathilde/' " Tala."

'' Ah, what is this ? '' .

She took up two tiny books in white
vellum bindings : '' Caroline de Lichfield."

"Thank you," she said. ''I believe
this is a story, and I have read few
stories. I shall be sure to like this one,
the outside is so pretty."

Carouse did not guess the poison to
his peace that lay between those covers.
As she read the little old-fashioned love-tale,
a new sensation wakened in Elvire.
What was this love, so tender, and yet
so passionate  this strange power which
produced in one character self-sacrifice,
and in another self-love, and yet which
seemed to be felt by all ? She knew it

had never come to her. She was troubled,
fevered, absorbed, , but she could not take
her eyes from the little dainty pages,
over which hovered a faint perfume of
heliotrope.

Carouse came home earlier than usual,
but Elvire did not appear at the door
in answer to his summons.

He hurried into the garden, and found
she was lying on the grass absorbed in
her book.

She started as he came up. Her
face was flushed and excited; she stared
at him with dreamy eyes.

Carouse burst out laughing.

*shave I roused you from sleep, my
child ? I'm afraid the book isn't a lively
one, if it sends you to sleep ; let me see
it."

Elvire smiled, but she held the book
fast.

I like it," lie said.

All through the evening: Carouse was
charmed by her gentle, pensive manner.

Next day, and the next, and the next,
Elvire was full of sweet, languid melancholy
; she looked more charming than
ever, her husband thought.

On the fourth evening Carouse came
home in boisterous spirits. The change
in his wife was a great relief, and when
dinner was over he began to tease
her about her books. She had finished
Caroline '' and was reading: '* Matilda."

They may be pretty to look at, child,
but they don't make people merry." He
chucked her under the chin.

She frowned, and pushed his hand away
as if it stung her. " Merry, indeed ! " she
said, with such intense scorn that he
looked up in surprise.

What is the matter, little one ? " he
asked.

Elvire looked at him, then she burst
into a passion of tears, and hurried out
of the room.

Carouse was struck dumb ; he felt at
the end of his resources ; but he thought
seriously over the matter. He had known
a good deal of women, but he had not
met with a woman like Elvire, and he
began to watch his wife. He saw that
she was again becoming pale and languid,
and he noticed too that she had lost
her appetite.

Once more he consulted the housekeeper,
but she only frowned and shook
her head.

It is worse than ever, nothing pleases
madame now," she said. '* She scarcely
eats or drinks, monsieur, and she cries
every day ; monsieur does not like me
to say so, but I think madame wants
change."

Yes, Elvire wanted change, but not

the sort of change meant by her housekeeper.
Carouse called in a doctor to see
his wife ; but when he had paid a long
visit, he shook his head.

** Madame is not ill," he said, "she is
low and nervous ; the mind is not at rest.
Give her change, and as much variety as
you can."

Carouse felt angry and unbelieving.
If Elvire was not ill, he considered that
it was her duty to appear well and not
to give way to nervous fancies.

'she could get over them, if she
tried," he said angrily.

I fear she cannot, unless she has some
variety in her life. Good-day, monsieur."

Elvire became daily more languid, and
she shrank from her husband more and
more. She seemed to be afraid of him.

At last Carouse followed the doctors
advice ; he took her to Thun and to

Interlaken, when these places were nearly
empty of visitors. Elvire was pleased,
she brightened up ; for a week or so she
was smiling and cheerful, and went into
raptures about the snow mountains.

But she soon relapsed into her silent,
abstracted state. There was, however, one
new feature in it. Every now and then,
without any conscious provocation on his
part, Carouse met her eyes filled with
passionate indignation ; but when he asked
how he had offended her, she refused to
answer.

He tried to make her angry-one of
the fits of passion of which he knew she
was capable would have been a relief
from her dreary indifference ; but she
was utterly indifferent.

So after a while Carouoe drew tired of
home life : his bower of bliss had chased
its character, and he began to stay later and

later at the Beauregard ; he often drank
so much wine, that on these occasions
he found it advisable to sleep there.

So the months and the years slipped
by. Elvire had as many books as she
chose, and saw all she could of the
world that walked out as far as her
cottage.

But one day a decided change came 
Carouse died.

The news was brought suddenly to
Elvire, and she could scarcely conceal her
joy. She was free  free from the husband
she had grown to hate, and from the
bondage which had become intolerable !
She had hated Carouse ever since she
had longed to love ; she had loved, in
fact, in his place, a dream-lover. She
was free to go out into the world and
seek for this ideal.

Before many hours went by, she learned

that she was rich as well as free.
Carouse had no near relations, and he
had bequeathed all he possessed to his
wife.

''Ah! but after all I do not owe him
much," the beautiful woman said ; " he has
wasted my youth. I am eight-and-twenty,
and I have not yet begun to live."

Marie.

Hail, ye small, sweet courtesies of life, for smooth
d'ye make the road of it ; like grace and beauty which
beget inclination to love at first sight. 'Tis ye who
open the door, and let the stranger in."  Sterne's
Sentimental Journey.

Take your places I take your places !
The train is just going to start." Then,
in a louder voice : " The train for Lausanne
! " This on one side of the big
station.

On the other side was heard, in yet
harsher tones : " A stay of lyq. minutes
Berne ! Berne ! "

Out of this train, which had just arrived

VOL. I. p

from Lucerne, were pouring scores of
travellers  English, American, German,
and others  their arms full of rugs, and
bags, and parcels. At first they did not
hurry, but went about with their burdens
in search of porters with whom to deposit
them. But when the warning cry was
heard from the other side, they hurried
on, staggering under the weight of their
varied impedimenta.

A tall official at the top of the steps at
the end of the platform shouted out to
them to make haste, and pointed to the
train about to start for Lausanne, quite
on the further side of the wide area ; but
greater haste was impossible for many of
the travellers.

A tall, gray-haired man, encumbered
with bags and sticks, limped along with
a look of despair on his high-bred face.
A young, simply dressed girl was standing

near him on the platform ; she saw his
troubled face, and looked compassionate.
Presently she caught sight of a porter
with a truck, and she pounced upon him
like a hawk.

Do you not see ? " she said eagerly ;
'Hie gentleman is lame, and he will not
be in time for the train to Lausanne.
You are going across to the other train
with those boxes ; can you not also take
his luoforaore ? "

While she spoke, the Englishman had
flung his load on the truck, and then,
taking off his hat, he thanked the girl in
bad French and asked if he could help her.

No, thank you, sir," she said, in a
fresh young voice. ' I stay at Berne."

He bowed again, and went on.

The girl looked wistfully after him  his
gentle face pleased her  then she gazed
round the station. All was bustle and conf

2

fusion, as she turned to follow the stream
of travellers going towards the vay out.
Here they had to run the gauntlet of a
line of omnibus conductors, each bearing
the name of his hotel on his cap ; some
were silent, only holding up their fingers,
but others clamoured for passengers.

The other travellers were soon relieved
of their burdens, but the young girl only
hugged her bag more closely when an
officious conductor tried to take it from her.

She was tall, and although young and
fair, seemed far more capable of carrying
a load than many of the pale, worried-looking
English women she had seen
starting on their second journey. She
too was pale, but evidently this was a
natural tint ; there was no sign of ill-health
or feebleness in her face. Indeed,
her pale, clear skin matched well with
the light brown hair that waved over

her forehead, and with the gray eyes
below ; these eyes darkened and brightened,
and a faint rosy colour showed itself, as
the omnibus conductor again tried to take
her bag from her.

Give it me ; you must be going somewhere
in the town," he said. " Come with
me. See ! I have plenty of room." And
he pointed to a little omnibus, the shabbiest
in the row drawn up in front of the station.

The girl bit her lips. She felt confused,
the noise and bustle had made her head
spin, and she would gladly have taken
shelter from it ; but she remembered the
directions she had received. She pulled
out a bit of folded paper from her glove,
and held it for the man to read.

Spitalgasse," he said, " Madame Boileau
; that's the glove shop, * The Need
Glove '  oh ! " His interest vanished, and
he turned away.

* You are close by, my girl," he said,
over this shoulder. 'ego straight on ; you
will see the shop under the arcade, a
little way beyond the corner of the Place
yonder ; a large red glove hangs over
the door."

"Please stop," the girl said, in a
frightened voice. " I was to ask someone
 you, perhaps  if your omnibus goes
past Madame Boileau's house."

'' Yes, yes  what then ? Make haste ! "
he said, but he was less surly now.

'then I am to give you this"  she
gave him her luggage ticket  " and I was
to ask you to bring my box to Madame
Boileau's, in the Spitalgasse."

He shrugged his shoulders and grunted.
The girl, without another look at him,
darted out into the street, and then
stopped, bewildered by the movement
around her.

It was market-day in Berne, and besides
the crowd of small vehicles, there were
groups of peasant women in sober costume
of black and white, varied by flower-crowned
hats, and silver chains hanging
from each shoulder of their bodices. Also
it was the last week in July, and Berne was
full of tourists, either just arrived or just
departing in search of health and amusement.

Marie Peyrolles, fresh from her quiet
convent home near Lake Lucerne, felt
dazed rather than amused by the lively
scene. She had no link of sympathy to connect
her with the bustle in the street. The
stalwart milk-carriers, bending under the
weight of their wooden milk cans, or walking
beside the huge yellow dogs that drew
their milk-barrows, had no word or message
for her ; these men nodded and joked
with the women at the fruit-stalls beside
the road ; with the girls at the fountains ;

or with others who had come in to market ;
the comers in from the villages made little
groups and told their bits of gossip or did
their marketing as they went up the long
crowded street toward the Clock Tower.

The sun shone hotly on the round
stones of the street, and birds in their
cages sang merrily among the flowers at
the blind-shaded windows ; while here and
there a cat sat blinking its eyes in the
open doorway of a shop.

Marie did not see sorrow anywhere,
but her heart was heavy; she felt a forlorn
stranger amid all this life and bustle,
and she stood fairly scared when she
reached the corner of the large Place,
and looked up and down the four ways
that met there.

Was it left or right I had to turn ? "
she asked herself; and her eyes grew
larger still with terror and sadness.

She had that morning said Good-bye to
all she loved  the good sisters of St.
Esprit, who had brought her up ever
since she was a little girl  and now,
before her tears were dry, she had lost
her way in seeking her guardian's house.
Marie tried hard not to prejudice herself
against this guardian, her father's old
cousin, Madame Boileau. She knew
that she had no claim on her, for the
good sisters had said it was very kind
and generous of her cousin to come forward
and offer to provide for her. Marie
had often felt a longing to see what the
world was like beyond the little village
near the convent ; but this sudden launching
into the bustle of town life chilled
and frightened her  she thought Madame
Boileau would have met her at the station
and now she feared she might have
lost her way. She stood still and tried

to keep back some fresh tears which were
scalding her eyelids.

While she stood in this bewildered state
she became aware that a short, stout, very
upright man, with a round, whiskered face,
was staring hard at her. He seemed to
have stopped for no other purpose. There
he stood, his legs wide apart, his small black
eyes and his mouth wide open, surveying
her with steady complacency.

At first Marie frowned : she thought it
was rude of him to stare at her so. Her
second thought was that he looked good-natured,
and would perhaps help her.

"If you please, sir," she said, growing
rosy, for she felt much shyer in speaking
to this stranger than she had felt in
helping the wearied Englishman, *' can you
tell me if I am near the Spitalgasse ? "

The stout man had raised his hat at
the first word ; he bowed profoundly and

thereby showed the bald, shining top of
his head. *' I am at your service, mademoiselle,"
he said. " This is the Spital-grasse"
 he pointed to the arcaded street
on the left : then seeing* the tears hansino:
on her eyelashes he divined some of her
uneasiness. "Mademoiselle is perhaps a
stranger ; if mademoiselle will have the
goodness to tell me where she is going,
I will gladly show her the way."

He looked hard at her and pushed up
the tuft of hair on his chin with a fat,
stumpy finger.

But the nuns had bade Marie beware
of strange men, and she remembered the
direction the conductor had given her to
find the glove shop.

I thank you very much, monsieur," she
said, shyly, *but I know my way now."

Her grateful glance completed her conquest
over the stout man. He stood

looking after her, hat in hand, with his
feet still set widely apart, as she tripped
down the Spitalgasse.

She is a dainty morsel'' he said to
himself, *' fresh as a bunch of flowers. I
have never seen anything like her in
Berne. My friend Loigerot,"  he patted
his padded chest with his broad hand  " if
you do not find out where this pretty bird
is going to perch, you are not worthy to
have been a captain in the Forty-fifth
Regiment of the Emperor Napoleon the
Third."

He had put on his hat, but at the
Emperor's name he uncovered again, and
glanced at the decoration on his coat.

No one looking at him could mistake
his profession or his country. One sees
such middle-aged warriors by the dozen,
in their blue frocks and sword-belts and
red breeches, parading the streets of any

French garrison town : and although he
had quitted the army, and wore plain
clothes, Monsieur Loigerot had a way, ashe
walked, of putting his hand now and
then to adjust the sword which no longer
hung beside him. His broad, cheerful face
looked serene and untroubled ; no lines
furrowed his brown forehead, though it
must be owned that the hair had receded
from it, and was even a little gray.

The captain had lately inherited some
property  a little country house near
Strasbourg and a bit of land had been
left to him by an old relative, whose affairs
would take some months to settle ; and
so, after thirty years of army life Captain
Achille Loigerot had decided to give up
soldiering and to settle down as a quiet
citizen. In a few months' time he should
come into possession of his property. He
had always been happy as a soldier, and

he meant to be happy as a proprietary,
he also meant to marry ; meantime he
had come to Berne to look up an old
acquaintance, one of the few he could
lay claim to. His friend, Monsieur Ca-rouge,
kept a hotel in Berne,' but on
arriving in that city, Monsieur Loigerot
found that Jacques Carouse, whom he
had not seen for twenty years, was dead,
and that his young widow was left hostess
of the Hotel Beauregard.

This very morning he had reminded
Madame Carouse of the " Beauregard "
that he wanted a wife : not too young,
he said  a sensible, pleasant woman, who
would manage his house with discretion,
and make life agreeable.

The handsome widow had smiled and
nodded.

So," she said, " we are then going
to lose the pleasant society of Monsieur
le Capitaine. Believe me, monsieur, you

will find plenty of ladies willing to listen
to your proposal."

The captain had felt a little troubled by
this assertion ; he knew that he was neither
young nor handsome, he was also conscious
of his bald head and rotund figure,
at least he always became aware of these
personal defects in the presence of his
beautiful hostess.

'madame,"  he bowed so humbly and
looked so much in earnest, that Madame
Carouse felt impressed  '' I am only a
man and I may be easily deceived, will
you do me the favour of aiding my choice ?
I  aw"  he had puffed out his words  ''I
shall esteem such a favour a lasting obligation.
She must be quiet, madame, you
understand, and amiable, and about  about
thirty-five."

Then he had drawn a deep breath,
and had looked much ashamed of his own
boldness.

Just now the sight of this fair young
country girl had scattered these sober
visions ; a much warmer sensation took
possession of him. He did not follow
Marie closely, but he determined to keep
her in sight ; and Monsieur Loigerot
crossed over, went up the Spitalgasse on
the other side of the way, knowing well
that under the arcades, crowded as they
were to-day, it would not be easy for the
girl to see that he was following her.

Both sides of the street were so full
that it cost him much vigilance not to
lose sight of his prize, every shop window
had its group of gazers, and in the
street between was a double line of fruit
and vegetable stalls, so that vehicles coming
up or going down found it difficult
to pass between the stalls.

All at once a horse turned restive,
backed against a pile of plums and pears,

and sent the ricli-liued fruit rolling over
the stones. Captain Loigerot stood still,
laughing heartily at the promptitude with
which a score of urchins flung themselves
on the spoil, while the owner, a shrivelled
old woman, scolded and grumbled and
chattered through her toothless gums,
and frowned till the lines in her brown
face looked inky, and her small eyes became
like a pair of shining black beads.
It was all over in a moment. The subdued
horse was led off, the old woman's
stall was righted, and Monsieur Loigerot
looked across the street to see whether
his country girl had also enjoyed the
little scene.

She had vanished.

Opposite him was the Stork fountain,
gray-green with age, and just behind
this was the glover's shop, over which he
lodged, its sign, a plump, huge, scarlet

VOL. I. G

82 AT TEE BED GLOVE.

glove hanging over the doorway. Beyond
was a confectioner's, and its windows
were extra gay to-day ; there was a brave
show of delicate cakes, frosted with sugar
or brown with chocolate, cream-tarts, and
many-coloured fondants.

The captain crossed over and peered
curiously in, for it seemed a likely place
to tempt a young girls appetite. The
shop was empty, and Madame Weber
herself stood behind her counter.

She and the old Boileau are dear
friends," he said ; " they are always gossiping.
I do not choose my landlady to
hear that I have been looking after a girl ;
it might make her less civil."

The captain little knew how near he
was to the object of his search, when he
forbore to question Madame Weber.

He went on, looking curiously into
the shops, but at last he turned back

to resume his walk, which his meeting
with Marie had interrupted. A twinkle
came into his quiet eyes.

It does not matter. I will keep a
good look-out, and we shall meet again.
After all, I do not think that Boileau
would trouble herself about me." He
gave a chuckle. " The old woman is
blind to the ways of a first-floor lodger
who pays his rent every week. That
poor devil on the top storey, or even my
tall friend the bank clerk, over my head,
might find her more clear-sighted."

He walked on smiling ; his adventure
had put him in rollicking spirits. Why
should he not amuse himself before he
settled down quietly into matrimony with
the pleasant domestic wife he had asked
Madame Carouse to find for him ?

"Yes, yes," he said to himself, ''I will
find that pretty little creature."

G 2

MADAME BOBINEAU.

Yes, sir," replied my son ; " but travelling after
fortune is not the way to secure her."  Vicar of
Wakefield.

Marie Peyrolles passed by the glove
shop, and gave a timid knock on the
house door beside it. She was too much
agitated even to notice the plethoric-looking
red glove that seemed to point
either a warning or a welcoming finger
towards her. Presently the door opened,
but the passage was so dark that she
could only see dimly.

Come in," a voice said, in the darkness.
** Is it you, Marie Peyrolles ? "

Yes/ the girl answered ; and then the
door shut behind her, and she followed
the short fissure she began to make out
in the dim light to the end of the narrow
passage.

A door was opened on the left, and light
streamed through.

Then Marie saw that she was following
a small woman in a shabby gown of
brown stuff into a shallow oblong room
surrounded by shelves, on which stood
paper boxes ranged closely one against
another ; on two sides these shelves reached
the ceiling ; at the back a small window
intervened, and opposite this was a glass
partition between the room and the
shop. The panes of this partition were
frosted, except those four which made
the upper part of a door of communication
; over these panes hung a green
curtain, which at this moment was tucked

tip on one side so as to command the
entrance of the shop.

Marie's eyes had strayed from her conductor
to take in these details. Now,
looking down at her, she met the piercing
gaze of two small, narrow dark eyes. It
seemed as if some one had drawn the
face belonging to these eyes on each side
till it had taken a sort of Chinese expression,
which the paucity of eyelashes
increased ; the face was certainly more
broad than long, and the loss of teeth
had brought the nose and chin nearer
together than nature had originally meant
them to be. The small woman's skin was
thick and yellow, and looked older than
her hair did; this was still brown, and
was strained in flat braids into a little
round knot behind her head, the knot
being crowned by a black comb with five
points, each surmounted by a large black

knob. She wore a black silk apron, and
some folds of white muslin showed between
her throat and the top of her shabby
gown.

Marie thought as she looked at her,
that the nun's garb at St. Esprit was
far more attractive than this dull Puritan
costume ; she supposed that this ugly old
woman must be her guardian.

Finding that her conductor did not
speak or smile, but went on gravely with
her scrutiny, the girl smiled timidly.

I hope I find you well, cousin. You
are Cousin Boileau, are you not ? " she
said.

Yes, child ; I am always well," was
the brisk answer. *did you find your
way easily ? ' and raising herself on tiptoe,
Madame Boileau tried to kiss Marie's
forehead.

The girl's constraint vanished ; she bent

clown, hugged the old woman in her
strong young arms, and kissed her lovingly
on both cheeks.

Madame Boileau gave a little gasp
when released, and looked yet more
attentively at her visitor.

'you look much older than I expected,"
she said, in a cold voice. *how old are you?"

*' I am just eighteen."

Can it be true ? Berthold's child
eighteen ! How time runs on ! "

'you knew my father, cousin, did you
not ? "

Yes, I " Madame Boileau checked

herself. " Sit down, child, and listen tome.
I do not mean unkindly, Marie, but
it is better to begin as we are to goon.
You can call me Madame, or Madame
Boileau. I dare say the sisters told
you that you were coming here to help
me in my shop." Marie bent her head.

"Well, then, you are to be my assistant,
not my relative, remember  it sounds
better in business."

She gave an uneasy smile, and the girl
thought she looked less friendly.

"I am afraid you will find me very
ignorant'' Marie said, timidly. 'I can
embroider and do plain sewing, but I
cannot do much else ; but I will try to
be useful, madam e," she added, earnestly.

Yes, yes, of course," said the old
woman. " Are you hungry ? Come this
way, and eat something."

They went again into the dark passage,

then down some steps and across a bit.

.
of yard to a kitchen. Here the cloth was

laid for two on a round table ; a hideous

old woman, with a throat that Marie

could not bear to look at, took the cover

ofi" a little soup tureen and also from a

dish of veal and macaroni.

"Madame will find the tart on the
shelf," the hideous creature said, and she
went away.

Marie was very hungry after her journey,
she also felt forlorn ; Madame Boileau
took a little soup, and she ate a few
mouthfuls of the ragout ; then she stopped
and watched her visitor eat, and her face
grew longer and her eyes hard and eager.

Ciel ! she eats like a wolf. Will this
happen every day ? " she said to herself.
Then, after a pause of silent watching,
It shall not, I shall not set so much
before her ; young animals never know
when they have had enough. Already
she has eaten a plateful of soup and two
helps of meat. It is too much, she will
have indigestion. Her services will hardly
be worth her food till she has been sometime
with me ; she is sure to make
mistakes with the customers. She looks

strong-willed ; strong-willed and a large
appetite ! Ah ! she must not be allowed
to get her head. Poor Boileau used to
say, 'Keep young girls under, and they
will never know that they have wills or
fancies He always said luxury was bad
for the young. Ah ! he was wise."

In old Boileau's lifetime his wife had
called him a tyrant and had groaned under
his miserly despotism; but ever since he
had freed her by his death she had quoted
his opinions, and tried to act them out,
utterly unmindful of her own suffering
under his suspicion and niggard ways.
This was the first time that she had been
able to put herself entirely in Boileau's
place. She had had assistants, but these
had been girls with homes of their own ;
they had come in the morning and had
gone away at night, and they had brought
their dinners with them. The old woman

who cleaned the house only came for half
a day, and was quite independent of
Madame Boileau.

As she sat blinking her narrow eyes at
the fresh young creature who had brought
a touch of summer into the sunless room,
Madame Boileau groaned.

I have been over generous to have her
here," she thought. " I believed from
what those sisters wrote of the girl that
they were willing to have kept her, fed
her, and clothed her as long as she chose
to stay. Yes, I have made a mistake.
Well, as I have been a fool once, I must
be as wise as I can to make up for it."
She took a small tin box from her pocket,
and from it a huge pinch of snuff.

Just at this point Marie left off eating
and helped herself to a draught of water
from the carafe on the table.

"You do not seem hungry, cousin," she

said. 'you make me ashamed to eat so
much ; but I was so very hungry ! '

Madame Boileau smiled grimly. 'there
is a tart." She looked at the shelf behind
the door. She hoped Marie would refuse
this luxury ; at any rate she would not
tempt her through her eyes by setting it
before her.

Thank you." Marie . rose up to get the
tart. " You are very kind," she said as
she placed it on the table.

She could easily have finished the small
dish of meat, and this slice of flat plum
tart did not look satisfying. She cut it
in two, and offered a portion to Madame
Boileau.

Her cousin shook her head, and pressed
her lips closely together. " I have dined ;
soup and meat make a dinner fit for a
countess," she said coldly,' and she folded
her shrivelled hands in patient resignation

at such a consumption of food and at the
time that was being consumed over such
a worthless employment as eating.

"The tart is excellent' said Marie, "I
never had such a nice one." She was
accustomed to liberal fare, and she helped
herself to the remainder.

Madame Boileau chafed inwardly, but she
had learned to control any show of feeling.

' When you have quite finished," she
said, with an emphasis that made Marie
redden as she swallowed the last mouthful
of pastry, "I will tell you what your
duties are."

Marie jumped up briskly. *' Shall I
clear this away first, madame ? "

By no means  leave it. I wish you
to understand that you come into this
kitchen only three times a day, for your
meals ; you have no other business here.
You will spend the rest of the day in
the shop or in my parlour."

Where am I to sleep, madame ? " the
girl said.

Her dinner had given her courage, she
felt less forlorn, and her cheerful tone
irritated Madame Boileau ; she could
not understand the fearlessness begot by
a long course of sympathetic treatment.


'' I will show you, later," she said.
There is no room for you here ;
my rooms are let to lodgers. I have
taken a room for you close by. Now
come."

She led the way back to her parlour*,
and telling Marie to leave her hat there,
she went into the shop, and drew back
the bolt on the street door. She then
called Marie in and began to teach the
girl her duties. She showed her the places
of the gloves in their boxes below and
behind the counter, told her how to find
the sizes and the prices, and also gave her

instructions relations; to the embroideries
and the other articles she had for sale.

Marie listened attentively. So far, her
work seemed to her easy enough, and
she began to think it would be amusing
to see so many different people in the
course of a day, for Madame Boileau
told her that sometimes she had as
many as six customers at once in her
shop.

Presently the old woman took Marie's
hand and held it in her skinny fingers.

*eyes"  she looked carefully at the
plump hand  " it is not a bad hand ; it
will do ; though sunburned, it has not
done rough work, I see. So much the
better. To begin with, I will show you
how to put on your gloves."

Marie grew rosy to the wavy curls on
her forehead :

I have not any gloves," she said, ina

mortified voice ; " we never wore them
at the convent."

"That does not matter," Madame Boileau
said coldly. *' What you have to learn is how
to fit them on the hands of my customers."

She gave another look at Marie's hand,
then reaching a box down from one of the
shelves, she took out a dull pair of slate-coloured
gloves, spotted in two or three
places with mildew :

"These will do," she said. "Now
observe how I fit you."

Marie stood wondering and smiling while
the glove was being fitted. It seemed *to
her that Madame Boileau was wasting so
much time and trouble, and when she took
from the counter a pretty little steel hook,
and buttoned every one of the four buttonholes,
Marie wondered still more, while her
round, firm wrist ached at the squeezing to
which it was subjected.

VOL. I. H

*' There "  Madame Boileau smiled with
satisfaction  "if it had been made for
your hand, that glove could not have
fitted better. Yes, yes"-  she put her
head on one side, nearly closing her
narrow eyes  "I know by looking, but
you must be content to measure until
your eye has got practised. Now, watch
me carefully while I measure  so "  she
took the fellow-glove from the counter and
measured it across Marie's knuckles  " and
so'' as she tried it from the thumb-tip
to the point of the forefinger. '' Let
me see you do that," she said gravely.

Marie began to laugh ; she thought
such child's play as this could not have
an earnest meaning, but she measured
the glove very exactly, and, as Madame
Boileau saw, with a simple grace of
manner that was very attractive.

"There is nothing to laugh about."

The old woman gave a dry cough. ' In
business jou must smile and look pleasant,
but you must never laugh at a customer :
laughing would be quite out of place ;
it might give grave offence. I think I
have told you all that is necessary. You
have only to select, measure, and then
try on the gloves ; if they seem a little
small, here are stretchers and here is
powders She stopped and illustrated her
meaning with the help of one of the
spotted gloves. *' You are to do exactly
as you have seen me do  exactly," she
added severely, " let the customers be
whom they will ; and above all, make no
mistake in the price."

'' I am to do to strangers all those
things ? " Marie asked slowly, with a surprised
stare ; and then the absurdity overcame
her shyness, and she laughed out
again merrily.

H 2

"Chut! be quiet," said Madame Boileau.
I tell you I cannot allow you to laugh
in the shop. See now. The best way
is for you to begin at once : go behind
the counter and fit me on this glove, or
take ofi* the one on your hand ; it will
go on mine easier."

Marie obeyed in silence ; but she found
that glove-fitting was not so easy as it
looked ; the colour flew into her face,
and she panted a good deal before she
succeeded in drawing the glove over
Madame's bony knuckles.

She was too rough here, or too gentle
there, and the old woman said : " You
must benin all over aoain."

The third attempt was pronounced better,
and Marie hoped that her probation was
over, and that she should be allowed to
oet cool again.

Enough, enough, that will do now, here

comes a customer," said Madame Boileau
; and she seated herself behind
the opposite counter.

The shop door opened slowly, and in
came a tall, gray-haired woman, with a
long, inquisitive nose, and lips that showed
her gums when she smiled. She was so
simply dressed that Marie thought she
could not possibly care about the fit of
her gloves.

Good-day, neighbour," she said ; and
then she looked at Marie ; "I came to
tell you that there is a sale of needlework
at Thun next week ; you might
pick up bargains there." As she spoke
she went close up to Madame Boileau.
*' You have got a new assistant, have
you not ? " she said, in a low voice.

Madame Boileau shook her head. ' I
have no money to buy bargains with,
Madame Eiesen. I have to feed and

clothe the fatherless." She turned up her
eyes, and drew down the corners of her
mouth. *' Yes," she went on, so that
Marie could hear, " that child is the orphan
daughter of my cousin Berthold Peyrolles,
and I am the only relative she has in the
world."

"And she has come to help you," said
Madame Eiesen. '* Ah ! I like to hear
that. It will be pleasant for you to have
something young about you ; " and Madame
Eiesen giggled, and put up her
hand as if she thought the movement
would prevent Marie from hearing. '' She
is attractive, too, mon Dieu ! I should
think so. She will be a good show card
ha ! ha ! neighbour." And taking away
her hand, she giggled unrestrainedly.

Madame Boileau looked stolid.

"Come in and tell me about these
bargains," she said ; and she led the way

into her den. Then when the door was
shut, and she had tucked up the curtain
over the little glass window that looked
into the shop, so that she might keep an
eye on Marie, she turned a wrathful face
on her visitor. *for the love of Heaven,
neighbour," she said, in a low voice, " be
more careful. Is it not enough that the
child has a taking face and taking ways,
but you must needs come and put into
her head what will, I fear, be a burden
to me ? When I first saw her face I was
minded to send her back at once to her
convent ; and then "  she turned up her
eyes again  '' I felt that I had promised
to be as a mother to the orphan, and
that I could not go back from my word."
Why should you, my friend ? " Madame
Eiesen patted her on the shoulder, but her
mischievous smile showed her gums almost
to the last tooth in her head. She is

pleasant-looking and attractive, but she
is not beautiful  not, for instance, like our
widow at the Beauregard  and nothing
can happen in the shop without your
knowledge." She gave a sly look at the
tucked-up curtain. "You have only to
keep her out of the way of your lodgers
ah ! by the way, that may be less easy."

Madame Boileau looked yellower than
ever. She always ranked her chattering
townswoman a fool, and to be instructed
by her was intolerable ; at the same time
the glover prided herself on giving offence
to no one. She pressed her colourless lips
still closer, and bent her head with a
reassuring smile.

There is no fear on that score. I have
no room to give Marie in this house.
Captain Loigerot has both rooms on the
first floor. Monsieur Engemann has
the second floor front; the room behind

that is not furnished, and one of the upper
rooms I let to a student."

*' But you have a floor above that ? "
Madame Kiesen looked inquisitive.

** That is not mine ; it belongs, with the
grenier over it, to my landlord. My staircase
only goes to the third storey."

Madame Eiesen clapped her hands.

' Well, to be sure ! "  she gave a sigh of
relief. 'how often have I wondered and
asked Eiesen to tell me what you could
possibly do with so large a house ! and I
knew that you had only three lodgers."

How kind you are ! " Madame Boileau's
smile was very grim. "I did not
flatter myself you thought so much about
me. Well, you know now, and you see
that I have not a room for Marie, even if
it were fitting to introduce a girl into a
house occupied by single men. I have
taken a lodging for her."

Where is that ? " said Madame Eiesen.

'Notfaroff." Madame Boileau spoke
carelessly. There was no occasion to let
this inquisitive gossip know that she had
got a miserable garret room for Marie from
a poor man in a back street. She had lent
this man money at a high rate of interest,
and some of the loan remained unpaid ;
it had seemed to her a golden opportunity
to place her j'otegee without the need of
paying rent.

"That is thoughtful. Well, I hope all
will go right, and that you will be rewarded
for your generosity." Madame Eiesen felt
that she could ask no more questions. '* If
she does encourage young men," she said
laughing, 'you cannot find fault ; girls will
be girls. I wager that there will be a run
on the * Red Glove ' when it becomes known
that there is a very pretty girl behind the

counter. I congratulate you, neighbour ;
but you'll have to keep a sharp eye on
the shop. Why'  she gave a start as she
looked at the clock on a little marble shelf
on one side of the room  " mon Dieu !
how late it is ! I must say good-day  but
perhaps your clock is fast "  she shook
hands  "I have heard Lorenz say that
you do not employ him to look after it,
you regulate it yourself."

It keeps the time of the big clock on
the tower' said Madame Boileau  her
face still wore the same mask of indifference
' and I believe Madame Carouse's clocks
keep that too."

Madame Risen was on her way to the
door ; she stopped and turned round.

*' Ah ! that beautiful Madame Carouse,
is it not wonderful to see her taste ?
Before she came to the place, I have

heard Lorenz say the hotel was a desert ;
and now when you go in there are flowers,
tropical plants, a fountain  ah ! one might
fixncy one's self in Paris."

'your husband is very fond of Paris,
I believe ; it reminds him of it, no doubt,"
said the old woman dryly.

Madame Kiesen was quick at making
discoveries, but she was not sensitive.

"It gives me pleasure," she said, "even
to look at that beautiful woman ; and only
think, we are going to have her all to
ourselves on Sunday."

AVhat is going to happen on Sunday ? "
said Madame Boileau, taking a pinch of
snuff.

We have asked Madame Carouse to
go with us to Thun. Lorenz says we shall
spend the afternoon on the lake. It will
be heavenly. Lorenz has asked some one
else  Monsieur Engemann, I fancy."

<t

Aha

checked inquiry shone for an instant
in the narrow eyes of Madame Boileau.

Yes "  her visitor gave her irritating
little giggle  " are they not a handsome
pair ? Made for one another, I say ; but
Lorenz thinks Monsieur Eudolf too young
for her ; he says our beautiful widow might
do better. He is as poor as a rat  a bank
clerk, you know."

"Your husband wishes, perhaps, that
madame should keep as she is."

This time Madame Kiesen did wince a
little at the dry voice of her neighbour.
She nodded and went out.

The old woman glanced like a spider
through her spy-hole ; then she smoothed
her apron with her withered hands.

"Chattering fool," she said. "You
came to pick up my secrets, but you
leave behind more than you take away,"

Madame Boileau took a long pinch of
snuff, and nodded her head. " I had not
thought it had gone so far between the
widow and my lodger."

AT THE HOTEL BEAUREGARD.

"Now a widow, an' please your Honor, always
chooses a second husband as unlike the first as she
can."  Sterne.

Madame Carouse had been sitting still,
with an expectant look on her facefor
more than half an hour. Occasionally
her eyes had turned from the clock on
the mantel shelf to the large staircase.
She could see this between the fronds of
palms and ferns that almost hid the
glass front of her little room, and gave a
pleasant aspect to the inner hall of the
Hotel Beauregard.

Madame Carouse's eyes were as handsome
as ever, large and dark, with
drooping lashes ; the broad black eyebrows
might have been thought heavy
on any one else  on her ripe nectarine-heed
skin they were perfect; but, indeed,
when one had gazed fully at Madame
Carouse's faultless figure and superb face,
one only thought of her eyes and of her
lovely mouth, its upper lip like the
crumpled leaf of a damask rose. Perhaps
the admiration she invariably created
could hardly bear to dwell on detail ; one
brought away from her a vision of jewel-like
brilliance and velvet softness. She
moved with perfect grace, but she looked
perhaps a little proud ; yet in a woman
whose head was so divinely placed, and
who walked as if the world belouoed to
her, one expected a little extra dignity.
And then the quiet mystery in which she

had lived  for, as we know, Monsieur
Carouse, till he died, had kept her in
his country villa beyond the Enge  had
doubtless increased the reserve that now
characterised her.

Carouse had been dead more than two
years, and yet the beautiful widow was
little known in Berne. Though she had
spent a month in Paris each winter,
she did not seem to have picked up
acquaintances there. She kept herself
apart, and had little intercourse with her
customers ; they did their business with
the head waiter, Moritz, the man with
sunken cheeks and a hectic colour, who
presided over the bureau on the right of
the door as you entered.

Madame Carouse's room was further
on, on the same side, and communicated
by a door with the bureau aforesaid, but
it had its special entrance round the

VOL. I. I

corner, so as to face both the staircase
leading to the saUe-danger, up-stairs, and
the inner hall, which looked very pleasant
on this warm evening, with its tiny fountain
screened by the surrounding foliage.

A slight frown drew the heavy eyebrows
together, and Madame Carouse's
beautiful bosom rose and fell with impatience.
Next moment she smiled, and
her smile was what Monsieur Eiesen, the
clock maker in the corn market, called
"adorable;" then one saw how sweet
her eyes were, and how exquisite the
curves of her perfect lips.

Presently she rose up and shook out
the folds of her trailing black silk gown
as she moved like a queen to a birdcage
hanging against the glass front of
the little room.

Cherii 1 " she said, and placing a bit
of sugar between her full red lips, she

offered it to the little golden bird in the
cage. As she bent her head you saw
how round and firm was her throat in
the ruff of black lace that set off its rich
brown tint. You felt instinctively how
warm a tide flowed beneath this golden
brown skin, and just now, as a tread
sounded on the stairs, it revealed itself
in the flush on her cheek and the added
glow in her dark eyes. The look in her
eyes this evening had never been seen
there in those long years of existence in
the little villa beyond the Enge.

Cherii took the sugar, but his mistress's
lips lingered beside the wires. Could she
be trying to hide the blush which she
felt on her cheeks ?

Her lips parted while she listened 
some one was coming down the stairs.

The steps came down as far as the mat at

the foot of the stairs. In the pause that

I 2

followed, her heart throbbed so strongly
that instinctively, and as it were to calm
it, she put one hand on her bosom 
not a small hand, but one proportioned
to her tall, well-developed figure, with
round, long, tapering fingers, a lovely
dimple at the root of each. As the fellow-hand
hung down beside her, it showed
a rosy-cushioned palm that would have
gladdened the eyes of a hand-reader.
This hand contracted nervously as the
steps moved on, not down the passage to
the street, but leftward to her room. And
now she could sec between the palm
leaves the tall figure of Monsieur Rudolf
Engemann. In another moment he was
at her door, which stood open ; but he
did not come in.

Good evening, madame," he said.
** What delightful weather, is it not ? "

The smile of Madame Carouse was

beautiful at that moment. She looked
radiant with happiness ; and as she fixed
her eyes on the young man, he thought
he had never seen so handsome and
attractive a woman.

' Will you not come in ? " she said.

The tall, broad-shouldered young Swiss
bent his fair head, and came into the
pretty little room.

He was evidently not a stranger therefor
he walked up at once to the 
hansino amonoj some ferns and

o o o o

flowers. 

"How are you to-day, my friend Cherii,
eh ? " he said.

The bird put his head on one side and
looked inquisitively out of his sharp black
eyes at the friendly blue ones bent on him.
'aha, my friend," said Monsieur Eudolf,
"I often hear you as I go up-stairs ; you
let us all know that you can sing."

All this while madame's eyes had been
fixed on him, and now as he suddenly
looked up, she did not turn away.

*' Can you really hear him ? " she smiled
up at Ler tall visitor. " I have to give
you a message, monsieur," she said.

He Lent his head ; he wondered, while
he listened to her pleasant voice, mellow
as her complexion, if any woman ever
stood so gracefully before. Her exquisite
figure, spite of its rich womanly development,
was full of the lonfj curving lines
that so rejoice an artist. But then
everything was harmonious with Madame
Carouse, from the soft grace of her movements
to the downward sweep of her long
eyelashes, as she began to speak.

Monsieur Eiesen, our good neighbour
I think you know Monsieur Eiesen "
(the young Swiss nodded)  " has asked
me to go with him and his wife to spend

a Sunday at Thin. We are, I bereave, to
spend most of our time on the lake. He
says the boat will hold four. Will you
condescend to be of the party ? "

She raised her eyes, and as she met
Monsieur Rudolf admiring gaze, she
blushed ever so little.

Thank you so very much, madame ! "
he said impulsively. '* I know I owe this
invitation to your kindness."

Madame Carouse looked unmoved. *'Ah,
no, monsieur," she smiled ; "I deserve no
more thanks than the postman who brings
you a letter. I have only given you a
message from Monsieur Eiesen. He will
be so pleased if I may say that you
accept for next Sunday."

I have much pleasure in accepting
such a kind offer," he said ; and then he
saw Moritz, the waiter, at the door, and
there seemed no excuse for lingering.

Au revoir, madame.' He bowed, and
was going.

*' You can come to me presently,"
Madame Carouse said to Moritz. Then
to Engemann : *ewe have not fixed anytime,
monsieur ; that, I believe. Monsieur
Kiesen will decide. I think, however, weare
to start soon after noon, but whenever
we go. Monsieur and Madame Eiesen are
to breakfast with me, and if you will dome
that honour "

She paused ; her timid, uncertain manner
made a curious contrast with her attitude,
full of dignity and repose.

Engemann bowed low. '' You are very
kind," he said. ** It will give me much
pleasure to join you at breakfast. I
suppose Thun is an old story to you."

I have been there "  she looked grave
"but I have not been on the lake. I
have never in my life had that pleasure."

It seemed to Monsieur Engemann, as he
watched her animated face, that something
very like a tear glistened in her
eyes.

Your presence," he said, in a low
voice, " will give the day a charm it
could not otherwise possess." A sudden
kindling in her eyes made him remember
that Moritz was waiting to see his mistress.
But I must not detain you," he said.

The change in his tone seemed to rouse
Madame Carouse out of a dream. She had
leaned forward a little, while her eyes and
her sightly parted lips had been drinking
in the expression that had gone with his
words. Now she stood erect, and her
bow, as she said *' Good evenings," might
have been addressed to any ordinary visitor.

Monsieur Engemann went past the
bower of leaves that circled the fountain,
and then along the passage that led to the

entrance. Here he saw Moritz, the waiter,
standing with his head bent on one side,
listening with deep attention and hardly-concealed
amusement ; the short, burly
figure of Captain Loigerot stood on the
mat, talking to him with much emphasis
and gesture.

You must really look to it, Moritz,"
the captain was saying. " When I wish
to give a friend a bottle of Liebfraumilch,
I mean to have it ; it will not do
to give me Diedesheimer, and to charge
me twice its value."

Moritz," said Monsieur Engemann,
'madame Carouse is waiting for you."

The waiter bowed his thanks to the
right, and his excuses to the left.

Pardon me, monsieur," he said ; '*! am
very sorry, I do not know how it can have
happened,  it shall be seen to ; " and he
hurried back to the glass-fronted parlour.

Captain Loigerot's voice had been decided,
and his gesture earnest ; but when
Engemann looked at his fleshy, high-coloured
face he saw a smile on it of the
most placid kind. This expression broadened
into actual pleasure at the sight of
Eudolf Ensjemann.

' The very man I wanted to see. Let us
walk home together," he said, *' if you are
going that way ; if not, I will go yours."

I am going home," Eudolf said, but
he did not seem delighted at the prospect
of a companion. Just then he
wanted solitude, he wanted to think only
of Madame Carouse's eyes, and of all
that they had been telling him.

All ! As he walked on in silence by the
side of his short, round-faced companion,
who rolled along the street like a plaster
mandarin, Eudolf Engemann began to
feel that there was something he did not

understand in the glances of the beautiful
widow  beautiful was a poor word
for her seductive charm. Did she look
at others in the same way ? . . . It was
wonderful that such a woman could care
for his friendship. . He felt unusual
impatience to see her again. It seemed to
him that he had not thanked her nearly
enough for her goodness  well, he would
mend that fault tomorrow.

Eh, don't you think so, my friend ? '*
the captain was saying.

*' I beg your pardon."

Engemann looked round ; he felt as if
he had waked up from a glowing dream.
On each side of the street were tall houses,
arcaded along the lower storeys, and he
and the captain were just passing the
quaint Clock Tower, which, with its
pointed red-tiled cap and little magical
figures, seemed like an old necromancer

presiding over the destiny of the city.
Eight o'clock was just going to strike,
and a group of people stood open-mouthed,
watching to see the little sears come out, and
the toy Duke of Zahringen strike the hour.

The ex-captain's eyes twinkled with
mischief.

I was saying how handsome our
hostess is. You are a lucky young fellow,
Engemann, if I may say so''

Kudolf laughed uneasily.

You can say what you please, my
good friend. Madame Carouse is not an
acquaintance of yesterday. I have been
boarding at the Beauregard for some
months past."

Again the stout man's eyes twinkled,
and he twirled his moustache as if he
thought by that means to hide a smile.

What a thing it is to be young " 
he broke into a hearty laugh  " and " 

he recovered himself and looked admiringly
at Eudolf  " and other things ! /
have been en tension at the Beauregard
for about two years ; I was a friend of
our fair hostess's husband, and yet she
rarely gives me a crumb of notice, or a
chance of looking at her  eh  eh " 
here he winked, and Rudolf felt irritable
assail. " / never receive a message during
dinner to say that Madame wishes to seeme

in her bureau as soon as I have dined.

Ah ! you are indeed a lucky fellow."
For a minute or two Eudolf looked

annoyed ; then he too laughed.

** You do me much honour, captain.
.Madame Carouse had a message for me

from Monsieur Eiesen, the clock-maker.

He is always telling me I want change,

and he offers me a place in his boat the

next time he goes to Thun  that is all."
All ! ' that is all ' ! " the captain laughed

till he actually rolled, as he walked, from

one side of the pavement to the other ; then
he took out a huge red silk handkerchief
and wiped his eyes. " I ask pardon," he
said. " I had thought you were  what
shall I say ? too young to see your way ? 
in short, that you might stand in the way
of your own good fortune by not idling
aware of your advantages. I see I was
mistaken."

He nodded with a very satisfied and
significant look, and walked on in silence.

Engemann felt nettled, but he was
puzzled how to answer. He could not
deny his admiration for Madame Carouse,
and yet, if he confessed it, there was no
knowing what use the captain might make
of his avowal. Perhaps he had been
too shy with her, had not gone to see her
as often as he might have done, and yet he
did not feel he was to blame ; he shrank
from being hurried into words which would
pledge him to anything definite.

The two men had been walking for the
last few minutes in the middle of the street,
for it had grown dark under the arcades,
except where a shop was brightly lighted ;
now they passed a gray-green fountain ;
upon it was the coloured figure of a
knight with his lance, standing on a
fluted column.

Suddenly the captain broke out with :
' Engemann, near the station this morning
I saw such a pretty girl ; she was clearly
a stranger in Berne."

Ah," said Engemann, without interest.
He had not much opinion of the captain's
taste in beauty.

Loig:erot had decided not to tell Enoje-
mann, or any of the Bernese young fellows
who frequented the Hotel Beauregard, of his
adventure with the girl ; but after what
he had seen to-day, with regard to Madame
Carouse and the young Swiss, he felt there

could be no risk in telling him. There
were two things absolutely necessary to
Captain Loigerot's happiness : lie must
have a companion, and if he had anything
to tell, he must have a confidant.

They were now close to the Stork
fountain, behind which, in the gloom
cast by the arcade, hung the huge Red
Glove over Madame Boileau's shop. The
Glove seemed to glower portentously in
the dim lisjlit.

One of the shop windows was already
cleared ; the other still showed embroidered
handkerchiefs, lace ties, and other colifichets.
As the two men stopped opposite the house,
the shop door opened, and a couple of
women came out into the gloom. One
of them  unmistakably Madame Boileau
closed the door behind her, and the captain
and his companion stared curiously at
the girl left standing under the arcade. She

VOL. I. K

looked a tall, well-made young woman ;
her fixce could not be distinguished. In
an instant the old glover joined her, and
they passed together out of sight.

"Who the devil has old Boileau got
with her ? Is she a new shop-girl ? "
said Loigerot. "I could make out she
is young, with a good face and figure."

Engemann laughed.

"Come, come, my friend, you are
drawing on fancy. I saw a passable
figure. I could make out nothing else."

The captain gave his companion a dig
in the ribs.

That, for your making out, young man !
Would you pit a civilian's eyes against a
soldier's where a woman is concerned ? I tell

you that is a handsome girl, and " He

checked himself, for Engemann, surprised
by his excitement, was looking at him with
an amused smile. "Never mind," said

Loigerot quickly ; '* I will ask old Boileau
all about it when she comes back."

Good-night," said the younger man.
*I have work to do to-night."

He nodded, and going to the private
door of the Ked Glove, he let himself in.

K 2

CAPTAIN LOIGEROT INDULGES HIS CURIOSITY.

We live in a world beset on all sides with mysteries
and riddles."  Sterne.

Captain Loigerot  he jealously clung to
his title  lit a fresh cigar; and then he
walked resolutely up and down between
the corner house and the first break which
came among the shops beneath the arches.
Every now and then on the stone buttresses
which divided one house from the
other, and helped to support the arcade,
a name was painted in large black letters.
On the stone pier beside the glover's shop
appeared the inscription: 'La Veuve

Boileau. Gants de Paris et de Neuf-chatel,
Broderies, etc. ; " and beneath was
painted a huge red hand, nearly as large
as that which hung in front of the
shop.

Gloves ! " The captain looked meditatively
at his thick bronzed hands. '' It
makes little difference to me whether the
shop-girl is pretty or ugly ; but still it
would be refreshing to know that there
was something younger in the house than
the shrivelled old Boileau and the hideous
witch she employs. The girl may be a
grand-daughter."

He took another turn, and reflected that
last time Lenoir, the hair-dresser, had
shaved him, he had said that Madame
Boileau had never had a child. Some one
else had told the captain that Boileau himself
was a fiction, but Lenoir said this was
not true ; he and Madame Boileau had both

come from Bale, and he had seen Boileau
in his youth. The glover had been, as-has
been said, a miser, and it was to free
herself from her husband's grasping relatives
that Madame Boileau had followed
Lenoir's advice, when he wrote from Berne
and told her of a good business for sale
in the Spitalgasse.

"But I certainly heard that the old
woman was wanting help in the shop,"
Loigerot said to] himself. *' She shall tell
me all about it, and whether the girl came
this forenoon, because "  he laid his finger
on his nose  *the two facts fit. They
jump to one conclusion. If it should be
as I hope  ma foi ! "

His face broadened into a beaming
smile, and he rubbed his hands together
with satisfaction.

It has been said that the ex-captain was
forty-five. When he first came to Berne

he was charmed with his well-furnished
first floor at the sign of the Red Glove,
and with the way in which his meals were
served at the Hotel Beauregard, but of
late he had found life a little dull. He
had been a good soldier and he had liked
active service ; but he had risen from the
ranks, he was uncultivated, and he shrank
from society. It was this awkwardness
that had kept him so long a distant
admirer of his beautiful hostess ; she had
seemed to him a superior being. Now he
besan to blame himself for this reticence.

"But where would have been the use,
my friend Achille ? " he said. ' You are not
blind, and you are susceptible ; you would
only have destroyed your peace, she is beyond
you : moths that fly too near a light
end by singeing more than their wings ; but
the liszt burns on and cheers some one else 
not a whit the worse for the poor moth

it has shrivelled out of life. No, the
widow would never have looked at me ;
but Engemann is another affair. If I were
he, I would go in and win."

He snapped his fingers as he reached
for the third time the turning down which
Madame Boileau and her protegee had
disappeared.

** If I were a young man," he went on,
' I could not shilly-shally over her as Enge-
mann does. I have certainly not seen them
together lately ; but it strikes me he has
only got to propose for the widow, and she
will accept him. She is constantly sending
him a message about something or other ;
and then I meet him coming out of that
parlour of hers looking as pleased as if
he had been made a general; if he is
spoken to, he has to wake up out of a
dream, as he did just now. Ma foi,"
said the honest captain, 'have I not

gone through it over and over again in
my time \Yith the young sub-lieutenants ?
poor young fools, how shy some of
them are, as if the women are not always
dying to listen to them, when they are
young and handsome. Ah ! if the young
fellows only knew their power."

He sighed. Presently turning sharply
round he found himself face to face with
his landlady.

Madame Boileau gave an obsequious
courtesy, and the captain bowed as if she
were Madame Carouse herself. Though

o o

he had no advantages in the way of
breeding Monsieur Loigerot had a natural
deference for women even when they were
old and ugly.

** You are out late, madame," he said.

"Yes, yes, monsieur, it is late." She
was hurrying on ; but he placed himself
beside her, and suited his pace to hers.

"You have had an arrival to-day,
madame."

The captain spoke boldly and pompously
; shy as he was with women in
general, he was not one bit afraid of old
Boileau in the gloom of the arcade.

She started with surprise, but then she
remembered gossiping Madame Kiesen,
and she cursed her indiscretion.

'eyes, monsieur."

The young lady is your niece, perhaps.
Ah ! I congratulate you, madame, on so
charming a relative. It was perhaps she
whom I had the honour of directing to
your house this morning when I met her
outside the station ? "

Madame Boileau was taken aback, she
hesitated how she should answer. She intended
Marie to be considered as her shop-girl
; but as she felt sure that the captain
would speak of his meeting with the girl to

others, it might save trouble in some ways
if she let him know that Marie belonged
to her.

"Monsieur is very kind," she said
deprecatingly, "but I think he mistakes.
My cousin is not a young lady  only
an overgrown child, fresh from her
convent."

"Fresh  exactly," said the captain; "I
have then had the pleasure of seeing her
this morning. She is fresh and as dainty
as a blossom of edelweiss. You will have
to take great care of her, madam e, in
this town and in this bustling time of
year ; those tourists are insufferable sometimes
in their behaviour to young and
pretty women."

"Yes, yes, monsieur; I will be careful."

"You see, you have also  two young
men  in the house," Loigerot went on,
pausing between his words. "You must

pardon me, madame, eh ! " he half closed
his eyes and looked significant.

Madame Boileau felt irritable.

"Yes, monsieur, but my cousin will
only be in the shop, not in the house,
and she will have plenty to do ; she will
not have time to think of young men."

It is not that, madame ; " he looked at
her with compassion for her dulness. *' It is,
I mean, the young men who think of the
young girls quite as much as  as  the other
thing. But," he cleared his throat, "for
that matter "  the captain was talking to
himself as much as to Madame Boileau 
so stir as regards Monsieur Enofemann
(this is between ourselves, madame, you
understand), I think you will soon have to
seek a new inmate for your second floor."

He winked and nodded, but though
Madame Boileau could not see his face
in the darkness, she was sharp enough to

understand, and she was troubled. This
was the second warning about Monsieur
Engemann and the landlady of the
Beauregard that had fallen on her
ears to-day, and the change suggested,
meant to her more than the loss of a
quiet, regular lodger.

Would Madame Carouse, who, in her
desolate, widowed state, had shown herself
so full of sympathy for other widows 
would she, Boileau asked herself, be
as generous when she became a remarried
woman ?

The shrewd old glover guessed that
a large part of the beautiful landlady's
kindness to her arose from her connection
with Kudolf Engemann ; he often
brought her a note or a message from
Madame Carouse, and sometimes he was
the bearer of a reply. Madame Boileau
had felt no appetite for the viands she

had set before Marie, but, for all that, she
could eat greedily in private, and many
a dainty dish was smuggled home when
she had called, by madame's request, at
the hotel, on her way from mass. Already
she felt robbed in the prospect of such
a marriage, and yet she was bound not
to thwart it, lest Madame Carouse should
find her out.

She looked stolid as she answered :
'monsieur Engemann has said nothing
to me about leaving the Eed Glove, and
he would surely give me notice of his
intentions if he meant to leave me."

Ah, my good friend," the captain said
gaily, 'you forget the old song." He
beean to whistle :

'tj'

Oh, c'est Tumour, rumour, Favour ! "

"Love, you know, is apt to affect the
memory."

'* So ! " she exclaimed. " Does Monsieur
Engemann think of marrying ? Is that
your meaning, monsieur ? "

They had reached the Red Glove, and
Madame Boileau was watching her opportunity
to slip away.

But Loigerot put his hand on her arm.
"You forget," he said; "it is not so long
ago that you agreed with me that Enge-
mann and our fair widow would make a
fine couple."

But then," she said sweetly, " I could
have said that of monsieur himself in
regard to Madame Carouse."

Loigerot reddened, and poised himself first
on one foot, then on the other. He was not
much accustomed to personal compliments,
and the old woman's words excited him.

Well," he said, " the truth is that our
friend Engemann is in love with the beauty,
and I fancy she favours him."

"Mon Dieu" Madame Boileau folded
her hands and turned up her eyes  she
had a way of doing this before uttering a
virtuous sentiment ; the action seemed to
help out her words  " can it be possible
that so honourable a gentleman as Monsieur
Engemann, who is as yet but a clerk
in the bank, can think of offering himself
to a woman of fortune ; for, monsieur, by
your leave, it is, I fancy, not only the
beauty of Madame Carouse that makes
marriage with her desirable, is it ? "

This shaft told ; the captain stood silent
and open-mouthed, his feet wide apart,
plunged in a deep reverie.

Good-night, monsieur ; '' and Boileau
disappeared through her doorway.

*' Great heavens ! "  the captain slapped
his thigh  'achilles Loigerot, you have
indeed been a blind mole. An old toothless
woman has discerned what has beeii

for so long a puzzle to you ! Boileau
is right ; there is the key to the mystery ;
Engemann is in love, but he is too proud
to propose to a rich woman, and the pair
will go on pining for one another. Well,
I am not handsome or clever, perhaps, but "
he put his finger to his nose  *rit is
yet possible I may be able to help these
lovers to an understanding. Ha ! ha !  a
hint to one or the other may smooth
matters. Yes, I will manage to give a
hint. I like to see people happy."

He took his cigar from his lips to enjoy
a laugh, and then walked on to the point
at the corner of the Spitalgasse where he
had met Marie. He stood there thinking
how charming the girl was. He sighed ;
he certainly had let her slip through his
fingers ; but now he knew where to find
her, aha ! Then, turning back, he went
Lome and to bed.

VOL. I. L

Marie's lodging.

I own my first sensations as soon as I was left
solitary in my own chamber were far from being
flattering."  Sterne.

'o*

Marie groped her way up the narrow,
uneven staircase of her lodgings. In front
of her, leading the way, was the man who
had opened the door, and she knew that
the woman who had stood beside him was
behind her. She felt like a captive
between these two dirty jailers, who, in
the dim light, had looked to her like some
of the beojffars who came to ask alms at
the gate of her convent home. She could

not see anything as she went upstairs excepta
glimpse of the man's dirty neck showing
above a greasy brown coat, the dark walls
absorbed all the light of the little hand-lamp
that he carried ; the smell of the
oil was intolerable.

"Take care, mademoiselle, at the topa
hoarse voice said behind her ; " the
railing is broken away."

Marie had just reached the landing,
and she saw, as the man turned to open
a door, that there was nothing to prevent
any one from slipping down stairs from
the narrow ledge outside the room into
which he had carried his unsavoury lamp.
She felt anxious to get rid of the sickening
smell, and so intent was she in feeling in
the basket that she carried for the candle
and matches provided by Madame Boileau,
that though she saw a bare, comfortless
chamber, she did not notice anything in

L 2

detail. She found the matches, and hastily
struck a light.

I will not take your lamp, thank you,"
she said to the man. " Good-night."

The door closed on her squalid hosts,
and then, as the candle flickered into
stronger liszt, Marie looked round her.
The flame led her eyes to a black zigzag
line above it  a crack in the wall, which
a little way higher yawned into a hole.
The wall was so dirty and loathsome in
aspect that it seemed to the girl as if some
fever or disease lurked there, and that the
discoloured blisters she saw upon it were
the outbreak of this.

She snatched up the candle, and looked
all round. Madame Boileau had said
that she had sent bed-coverings, and Marie
saw that these lay in a corner near
the dingy bed. There was a rickety table
against the wall, with a jug and basin,

and over it was a little cracked mirror
ia a tarnished frame ; close to her was a
wooden chair. Setting down the candle,
she sank into the chair in a sudden burst
of tears.

It is cruel, it is wicked, to send me
to a place like this. Oh, what shall I
do ? " Then pulling her skirt angrily
away from the dirty floor, she sobbed
out her grief and indignation. " What
shall I do  oh, what shall I do ? "

For the first time in her life, there was
no one to whom Marie could go for comfort,
and this was much worse to her than
the dirt and the discomfort.

Since her mother's death she had lived
in long whitewashed rooms with bare
floors, and certainly the plainest of needful
furnishings ; she had never known
luxury at the convent of St. Esprit in
her surroundings or her food ; but in

spite of the plainness and of the frugal
fare, the cleanliness and order of the
place had been dainty, and Marie had
there enjoyed the greatest of luxuries 
love.

The other girls brought up among these
kind, simple sisters had homes to go to
in holiday-time, but Marie Peyrolles had
come to the convent a bright orphan
child of twelve years old, and had stayed
there ever since her first arrival.

Her godmother had loved Marie's
mother, and had promised her, when she
died, to take care of her child ; but this
benevolent woman was soon taken awiy
from her charge, not, however, before
she had bequeathed a sum of money to
the convent to provide for her little Marie
till she was sixteen years old. Then the
girl was cither to become a sister or to
earn a living by teaching.

But Marie at sixteen was still o very

childish, and the sisters loved her so
dearly, that they had no desire to give
her up. In holiday-time she was their
pet, she was so sweet and bright ; her
very sauciness gave a charming variety
to the quiet, uniform life they led ; but
although she loved them in return, she
expressed no wish to adopt their life.

At eighteen the girl became restless
and dissatisfied. She did not wish to
become a sister, and, indeed, not one of
the gentle community sought to point out
such a life for her ; but she had at last
begun to think, and when she saw how
many claims the convent had to meet,
and how in the long snowy winters, poor
as the sisters were, they fed and clothed
their yet poorer neighbours, she revolted
against her own idle life, and one day
she begged the superior to write to her
father's old cousin, and ask her-to find
work for her to do.

'* You know, mother," she said, *' I
could never gain my living by teaching.
Sister Joseph has given me up ; she
says the children will not mind me ; they
only laugh. But I am strong, and I can
work, and I think I ought to earn my
living. I need not be the burden to my
cousin that I am to you and the dear
sisters."

At first the superior refused to listen
to her, and Marie had to withdraw her
petition ; but she confided her wishes to
the sisters, and little by little a feeling
grew up in the convent that Marie
Peyrolles wanted to leave it.

Perhaps she did. She loved her kind
friends as dearly as ever, but something,
a vague restlessness that as yet took no
shape, began to trouble the young girl's
dreams at night and her waking thoughts
by day.

Often when she roused from her day-dreams
she found she had been wondering
what Berne was like, wondering, too, about
the glover's shop in the Spitalgasse, and
about the unknown cousin who sent her
every New Year's day a box of sweetmeats.

And then the next time she asked to
go away from the convent the superior
told her that she had written to Madame
Boileau, and she was expecting a reply
to her letter.

For an instant a chill fell on Marie ;
but there quickly followed such a thronging
in of fluttering hopes and shy expectation
that she felt scarcely able to eat
or drink, or to fix her attention on anything.
One morning, soon after, she was
summoned to the superior's room to hear
her fate.

This had happened so few days ago
that it appeared to her like a dream.

Only, out of the excited feelings which
made this episode seem so unreal, there
stood out in her memory the superior's
last words  a little sermon Marie had then
called it, tender wisdom she now felt it
to be  and her tears began to flow again
as she repeated the words to herself.

We grieve to lose you, my child,
because we love you. I hope you will
meet with love in your new home ; but,
Marie, you must try to love those with
whom you have to live ; it is not always
easy, for love, to be perfect, demands all
the powers of the souL" Marie remembered
that she had looked up questioningly
at this, and the mother had added:
Yes, my child, love to God does not
interfere with, though it purifies and
elevates earthly love, to which it sets a
pattern. As you shrink from all that would
pain those you love, and strive by word,

look, and action to give happiness to
others, you will be helped by love to
grow careful about your faults. You must
love something, Marie, and love of those
we live with keeps the door of our hearts
shut against the love of money and the
love of self."

It is beautiful advice," poor Marie sobbed.
"It is just like them all. How could one
help loving them ? Ah ! the very sight
of them helped me to be good; but how can
I love Madame Boileau when she puts
me in a place like this ? " she said, with
an angry shiver of disgust, as she looked
at the dirty floor. '* I cannot love her,
and I will not," she went on ; " she ought
to lodge me in her own house  she is horribly
unkind. The mother could not know
that I was going to be lodged in a dirty
garret, or she would not have sent me. I
am sure of it. I have a great mind to go

back to Lucerne tomorrow. Ah ! if I had
not been a monster of ingratitude, I should
never have left St. Esprit."

And then she cried again bitterly. It
seemed to her that she was justly punished.
If she had never asked to leave, the sisters
would never have sent her away, and she
mioht have worked harder for them if she
had tried. It was her own fault : she had
wanted to see what the outside world was
like, and she had got her wish. If people
in the world were all like Madame Boileau,
then indeed the convent was the
happiest place to stay in.

It had grown late while she sat thinking
and crying, and at last, worn out and unhappy,
Marie determined to go to bed.
She thought it was possible that life
would look less gloomy next morning.

When she lay down it seemed impossible
to believe that she had only left the convent

that morning. She did not go to
sleep at once. All her little escapades and
follies rose up before her, and in the darkness
took exaggerated importance. No
wonder, she said to herself, that the sisters
were all glad to be rid of such a tiresome,
teasing girl as she had been. How often
she had plagued Sister Monica. Oh, how
could she have so tormented them ! Her
cheeks grew hot with shame, and it began
to be evident to her that only their goodness
had tolerated her : in their hearts they
must have been glad at her departure.

She could not sleep, her heart felt so
heavy. She turned restlessly, and tried to
cool her hot cheeks on the wretched pillow.
The movement let light in upon her trouble.
The sisters had not seemed glad to let her
go ; they had said they were sorry, and they
always spoke the truth. Perhaps, instead
of being glad, they would miss her tomorrow.

Then she let her thoughts dwell
on the leave-taking : the tender kisses, the
mother's pretty gift  a daintily-furnished
work-basket  the kind, loving looks of all,
except perhaps Sister Monica.

At last the tired child fell asleep.

A MORNING WALK.

Above me are the Alps,
The palaces of Nature, whose vast walls
Have pinnacled in clouds their snowy scalps,
And throned Eternity in icy halls
Of cold sublimity, where forms and falls
The avalanche  the thunder-bolt of snow !
All that expands the spirit, yet appals.
Gather around these summits, as to show
How Earth may pierce to Heaven, yet leave vain man
below.

Cliilde Harold.

Morning sunshine came streaming into the
dirty little room, showing more horrid
cracks in the soiled wall, and also showing
that the window which admitted this warm
brilliance had a sufficient blind of cobwebs.

Soon the brightness travelled across
Marie's coverlet, and reached the dark
eyelashes which almost touched her flushed
cheeks ; the lashes clung together, and parted
into clusters, telling tales of last night's tears.

Sleeping there, one soft cheek resting
in her pink palm, Marie looked like a
peaceful child ; care had left no trace on her
fair, soft skin. . . . The sunshine reached
her eyes, and she opened them ; a gaze
of unrecognising wonder showed in their
gray depths as she looked round her.

She started up, and then, with a grimace
as her feet touched the dirty floor, she soon
washed and dressed herself. She heard
the clock strike five ; opening her door,
she heard sounds in the house that told
her some one was awake. While dressing,
she had decided to ask the woman of the
house to clean her room, and she went
down-stairs to find her.

*' Come in' a voice called out from a
den under the stairs, and then the woman's
miserable face showed  a pale patch in the
gloom.

Marie thought she looked much dirtier
than she had looked last night. It seemed
to the girl that cleanliness could not be
expected from this poor creature ; she
would not know how to practise it. The
girl stood thinking. Presently she said :
*' Can I have a pail and some water ? You
will, perhaps, show me where I can go to
draw water?"

Yes, I weill show you."

The woman brought her a pail, a cleaner
one than Marie expected, and then opening
the house door, she pointed out to the girl
a small fountain against the high wall opposite.
Marie found herself in a paved
court, below the street, with this wall in
front of the houses ; at one end was a

VOL. I. M

very narrow passage between the walls, at
the other the steep flight of steps she had
come down last night.

Some girls in picturesque Bernese
costumes were filling their pitchers and
chatting merrily by the fountain. Marie
felt amused ; the fresh air revived her
spirits.

The girls nodded and smiled at her and
said good morning ; then, as she went
back slowly to the house with her full
pail, they wondered who she was.

Marie was doubtful whether she should
be able to clean her floor. "There is the
dirt of months upon it, but there is nothing
like trying," she said, laughing to herself.

At the convent she had been taught to
cook and to sew and to embroider, but
she had not been allowed to do housework,
even when she grew too old for
school lessons. There was no need, the

kind sisters had said, and it would spoil
her hands for embroidery.

She felt like a child with a new toy as
she tucked up her skirts and bared her
white, well-shaped arms. She had only a bit
of flannel to scrub with, and a sponge. It
was not easy work. She had to go over
the floor three times before she could
clear away the dirt. Her face became
very red and hot, and her loosened hair
fell over her eyes, before she had finished
cleaning the floor and the window.

She had used up the bit of soap bestowed
on her by Madame Boileau, and she had
several times emptied and refilled her pail.

More than once she longed to give up,
but she persevered, and at last all was
done. Marie felt sick and exhausted, but
at least her floor and her window were
clean ; so was the table and chair, and
everything else that could be washed.

M 2

It must be owned that there was a good
deal of damp in the room, but there was
also a wholesome smell of soap and water ;
the close mustiness of the atmosphere had
been banished, and the warm sun, streaming
in through the open window, would,
Marie hoped, soon remove the general
dampness.

Then she looked ruefully at the long
black cracks in the walls.

**If I could only get some paper and
paste," she said, " I would hide away those
gaping cracks ; I am afraid I can't clean
the walls."

She smoothed her hair, tidied herself,
and then went out.

Madame Boileau had told her to come
to the Red Glove at half-past seven. She
heard seven strike  she had still time fora
walk. Going up the flight of steps,
she found herself on a level with the rest
of the town, and she knew that if she

went straight on she should reach the
big clock-tower which Madame Boileau
had pointed out last night as a landmark.
She need not go yet to Madame Boileau's,
this half-hour was her own.

Marie had never gone out alone till
yesterday, and even then an old priest had
conveyed her as far as Often. There was
a delicious sense of freedom in this ramble
in the freshness of early morning. She
turned round, and went along the street
built on the top of the high wall which
faced her lodging. There were pretty
little houses here, with flowers in every
window, making a glory of scarlet and
orange in the sunshine. At the end of
the street she came to a sort of circular
terrace with a tree in its centre ; some
working-men stood leaning against the
parapet of this terrace. Marie looked about
her to see what they were gazing at.

The platform looked down a high, steep

bank on to the blue-green river ; on each
side through the trees she could see the
houses of Berne, and across the river the
green banks again rose steeply ; but the
men were not gazing at the river or the
houses.

Marie's eyes followed their looks upward
to the horizon. She gave a little
cry, and an old gray-headed workman
turned and nodded at her with an
approving smile.

'aha!" he said, "you have luck; it
is not often like this."

Before her in the distance was a long
line of glittering light  one after another
the peaks of the snow giants glistened in
silver brilliance high up in the sky. No
threatening clouds dimmed their grandeur ;
the air was bright and clear ; it seemed
as if silver fire burned within the range
of mountains.

Marie foro-ot all about her miserable
bedroom and her employer. She was
entranced with the scene before her. Once
more she felt at home again ; for at
St. Esprit she had called the snow
mountains her friends. These where not
the same, they were farther off, even more
lovely, she thought, than at Lucerne.
They sent a thrill through her. Ah, how
she wished they did not look so far off !

"Ahem!"

A discreet cough made her turn to see
who stood next her.

A hat was being raised in her honour,
and a broad bronzed face was beaming
with pleasure till the small eyes in it
narrowed. In a minute she recognised
the stout gentleman who had spoken to
her yesterday in the Spitalgasse, and she
smiled in answer to his greeting.

Good morning, mademoiselle'* said

Captain Loigerot. " I need not ask if you
have slept well, for you look as fresh and
bright as the mountains do. I heard of
your safe arrival at the Eed Glove from
my good friend Madame Boileau."

** You know her ? " said Marie quickly.

'* I have that honour." He bowed again.
' Mademoiselle, it is my good fortune to
lodge in the house of Madame Boileau.
Our meeting is a singular coincidence." He

o o

held his head very stiffly, and made a pause
between each sentence, as if he looked back
at it, and made sure that no correction
was needed. '* Mademoiselle," he went on,
finding that Marie's eyes were again fixed
on the mountains, *sis perhaps on her way
to the Eed Glove. May I have the
honour "  he took off his hat and remained
uncovered while he finished his sentence
*' and the pleasure of walking so for
with mademoiselle ? "

There was a certain military swagger
about the captain in spite of his humility,
and he had taken up so much space in
bowing to Marie, with his feet planted
widely apart, that the working-men leaning
against the parapet turned round to look,
and they were now smiling at the stout,
middle-aged man's admiration for the young
girl, who seemed so unconscious of it.

The captain did not heed them, he only
saw Marie ; but the girl felt a little annoyed
at the attention he had drawn on her.

You are very kind, monsieur," she
said, 'but I am late, and I shall have to
go much faster than perhaps you would
care to go ; so I had better go alone.
Good morning, monsieur. I thank you
very much."

She bowed and turned away, while the
captain stood with his mouth open, trying
to form a new sentence.

Confound it ! " was the next sentence
he produced, and he stood, with his stumpy-legs
wider apart than ever, staring after
her. 'she flits away like a butterfly.
Well," he added philosophically, " it does
not signify ; I shall certainly see her again
away from the shop ; Berne is not very
large and I am often in the streets, and
when I determine to do a thing, usually I
do it. She is prettier than I thought."
He paused, and a sudden idea made his
eyes twinkle. "I believe after all I do
want a pair of gloves," he said to himself.

And this was evidently such a huge
joke that he went rolling along the pavement,
laughing, till his face looked like a
copper full moon, with its eyes closed.

At the angle of the street, however, a
big yellow dog, that had just been unfastened
from a milk-cart, flew at him.
The captain opened his eyes and promptly

grasped it by the collar, then he shook it
and threw it from him as if it had been a
puppy. He turned to the owner, a stalwart
young peasant, who stood bending over his
tall, flat wooden milk-pails, without an
attempt to call off his dog.

Eh I my friend," said Loigerot, ' how
is it your dog has slipped his muzzle, ordo
you forget that we are in August ?
Attention, my friend ; for this time I let
you off."

And then he went smiling: along the
street, thinking of Marie. Berne had
shaken off its dulness for him ; it held
within it the possibility of a very pleasant
adventure.

AT Breakfast.

"A man might lead such a creature as this round
the world with him."  Sterne.

EuDOLF ExGEMANX was breakfasting at
the Hotel Beauregard.

The dining-room opened from the
spacious landing at the top of the first
flight of stairs ; the breakfast-room was
on the ground-floor, on the left of the
stair foot, and it faced the green inner
hall where madame's palms and ferns,
lighted by the lantern at the top of the
well-staircase, made such a pleasant screen
to her parlour, which, as has been said,
was glass-fronted at the end facing the

staircase. Madame Carouse could see, if
she chose, every one who came down the
broad well - staircase without being seen
herself; but there was no window in
her room on the side which faced the
double doors of the breakfast-room.

Captain Loigerot came briskly into the
hotel this morning, with the intention
of seeing Madame Carouse; but just ashe
reached the corner leading to her
sanctum the folding-doors on his left were
flung open by Moritz, Captain Loigerot
had time, while the waiter answered someone
over his shoulder, to see into the
breakfast room, and to recognise his acquaintance,
Rudolf Engemann, busily engaged
in eating at one of the small tables
placed about the room.

This sight changed the ex-captain's intentions
; the chance of a gossip was
not one to be given up easily, and

although he never breakfasted till much
nearer noon, he rolled into the room, and
nodding to one or two dinner-table acquaintances
in different parts of the room,
he seated himself at Rudolf little table.

' Good morning, my friend," he said.
I have something to tell you."

*' Eh ! " the young man said gaily.
*rare you going to change your habits,
captain, and breakfast with the rest of us ? "
Loigerot shook his head, and laid his
hand on the front of his tightly-buttoned
coat.

"Not if I know it"  he leaned back
and laughed in the deliberate manner
that seemed to give him so much enjoyment.
" I respect my digestion and 
my figure, do you understand? Ba!
you laugh, my young friend. Wait till
you are forty or thereabouts, and then
see what weill be the result of these

VOL. I. N

cups of boiling cafe cm lait that you so
freely imbibe in the early morning. If I
so indulged my appetite, mon Dieu ! I
should soon resemble the glass ball in
the garden at the Schanzli, and I should
be able to roll along the streets of Berne
without making use of my legs."

He leaned back at this, and laughed so
heartily that the men at the other tables
joined in chorus ; even the girl who gave
out the coffee, who happened to be crossing
the room, stopped to enjoy the
captain's merriment.

Kudolf grew a little impatient of it ;
he wanted to get a few words with the
charming widow this morning before he
went to his office ; but he felt obliged to
wait for the captain's communication.

At last Loigerot stopped, pulled out a big
red pocket-handkerchief and wiped his eyes.

'' Oh dear, oh dear ! " he said. 'well, my

friend Engemann, what I have to say is, most
haste is not always best speed. If you had
staid behind last night and kept me company,
yoii would have heard something."
Monsieur Loigerot had by nature a loud
voice, and his effort to lower its tone
as he made this communication only
served to make the other breakfasters
listen for what was to come.

Well, captain ? " said the tall Swiss.

I was right  you know what I mean."
The captain leaned forward, winked, and
looked important; Engemann did not
answer ; and he went on : "I tell you I
found out I was right. The  the young
person I had seen in the morning is the
cousin expected by Madame Boileau, and
she is the new shop-girl. Aha ! what say
you now, my boy? Am I not a shrewd
guesser ? " He patted Eudolf s shoulder
with his stumpy brown fingers. ' It was

N 3

she we saw, and you pretended that she

was not pretty. Mon Dieu ! she is "

He nodded his head and closed his eyes.
Wait till you have seen her."

Kudolf was amused. Glancing across the
room, he saw that two of his fellow-clerks,
also boarders at the hotel, were stifling their
laughter, and were evidently listening to the
captain's story. Engemann looked at his
moon-faced, rotund companion, and decided
that his taste in beauty would not be refined
or hard to satisfy.

"I forget where you saw her," he said,
''or what she was like  tall and stout, I
fancy, a fine figure, eh?"

His mocking smile was, however, lost
on the captain.

'stall  yes, she is tall and upright asa
pole ; but she is, in a word, graceful too
and well-proportioned, everything that a
young woman should be. Listen, she "

He stopped abruptly ; he was about to
relate his morning adventure when he
became aware that Moritz, the head waiter,
was standing not far off, and was probably
listening.

"I congratulate you, captain. You will
no longer complain of the dulness of Berne
if this charming creature stays in it," said
Engemann.

Loigerot flushed up to his little eyes.
He went on in a lower voice : " Did I not
tell you ? Of course she stays in Berne.
She has come expressly to help our friend
Madame Boileau to sell her gloves. She
is not to lodge in the house ; madame says
there is no room ; but "  here the captain
put his finger beside his nose and looked
knowing  "but I agree with our hostess,
lodgings are better for her cousin ; besides,
the going to and fro gives opportunities 
eh, what ?"

He became so very red, and looked so
suddenly discomfited, that Engemann could
not help laughing, and his two fellow-clerks
joined in chorus. Loigerot got up from
his seat, and stuffed his hands into his
pockets as he walked to the window.

*'I Leg your pardon, captain'' Eudolf
laid down his napkin and followed him ;
*' but you don't seem to have lost time :
she only arrived yesterday, and you talk
of opportunities already."

I did not say / had lost time," said
Loigerot gravely. *'I only said you had
done so. I have told you all I had to tell
you, young man."

He turned his back and looked out of
the window ; he was vexed with himself ;
he did not mean to have said so much,
and yet he must have told some one ; and
Engemann was so evidently infatuated with
Madame Carouse, that he was the best confidant

he could have chosen. The other
men had laughed, but he did not think
they had understood him  no, he felt sure
they had not. Still, Captain Loigerot
felt that his enthusiasm had carried him
too far : he did not want to surround this
sweet girl with a crowd of foolish admirers,
and he thought the safe plan would be tolet
Engemann leave the breakfast - room
before he did, so that his young friend
might have no temptation to repeat what he
had heard to the other fellows.

Loigerot stood still, therefore, at the
window. There was always something going
on in the street just below it, and to-day
he was charmed by the sight of three
buxom peasant girLs, who stood gazing at
the showy mock silver chains, medals, and
brooches in a glass case in front of a shop
across the way.

*' Pretty, unwise creatures," the captain

thought : *' they are like moths round a
candle, they wish to have these trinkets
because they shine. Bah ! they shine now,
but in a few months they will be tarnished
and dull, if indeed they do not show they
are but brass or worse. It is the way
with the young ; the outside look, that
is all they care for, whether it be in a
husband or a bodice-chain."

Then seeing that Engemann had departed,
he too went out to say a few
words to Madame Carouse. The door of
her room stood open, and Loigerot heard
her voice. She was speaking so very
earnestly that he did not like to go forward.
He knew that she could see him
if she looked that way, so he stood
watching the trickle of the fountain, many-coloured
as the sunshine fell on it, and the
moving reflected light on the palm fronds
near it.

"Ah, monsieur," the rich full voice
went on within the room, 'you are too
kind in your thanks ; it is I, on the
contrary, who have to thank you for the
pleasant talks which brighten my monotonous
life."

Loigerot was too discreet to turn his
head : he could not, therefore, see the sweet
expression that filled the widow's dark
eyes as she raised them to look at Rudolf
Engemann.

The look thrilled through the young
fellow, and seemed to draw his heart out
of him. He felt perplexed and agitated
as his eyes met that deep liquid glance,
at once so tender and so beseeching. He
had heard people say that Madame Carouse
had flashing eyes, but now the fire was
quenched by a subdued sweetness in
harmony with the careless grace of her
attitude, as she leaned back on her little

sofa ; one smooth hand lay in her lap,
and Rudolf found himself looking at her
wedding-ring, and wondering whether she
had been happy with her husband.

'* Is your life monotonous, then ? " he
said. " I should have thought it had variety
enough."

Loigerot could not help sniggering at
the change in the young man's voice.

'mon Dieu ! he would do for a stage
lover'' he thought over the palm leaves ;
but he did not like his position as listener,
and as it was evident he had escaped notice
in the preoccupation of the two within
the parlour, he went softly back to the
corner, and then down to the entrance
door of the hotel, where he saw Moritz
talking to some new arrivals.

Rudolf question was not answered at
once : Madame Carouse sat thinking. She
put up one hand and let her soft, rounded

chin nestle between an outspread thumb
and finger, thereby showing exquisite
curves from the round, supple wrist to
the pointed little finger, and the rosy,
hollowed palm. Kudolf thought how
nectarine-like her cheek glowed against
her dark lashes as she sat thinking, her
head bent a little forward.

"You are right, ' she said at last. "Men
who think can always supply the right
word. I meant to convey the feeling which
my life gives me. Ah, yes ! you are right,
monsieur ; there is plenty of variety in my
days, and I ought not to complain. Complaint
is always useless; besides, it is disagreeable
to others."

She spoke, very sadly.

Pardon me, I do not see how one can
get on without complaining sometimes," he
said simply, and with a consciousness that
somehow he had reproved her. " I think

people are foolish who keep all their
grievances to themselves."

She looked up with a bright smile.

And yet," she said, *' you never speak
of yours ; and in this life no one can hope
to escape them. You have troubles, I am
sure."

A cough, and then a loud scraping of the
throat disturbed her, and checked Eudolf 's
answer.

Madame Carouse rose up from the sofa,
and came forward to the door. Captain
Loigerot stood outside, beaming with satisfaction
; he bowed as low as the construction
of this figure would permit.

I had the honour of receiving a message
from you last night, madame," he said,
conveyed to me by Moritz, that you
wished to see me to-day."

Madame Carouse bowed and smiled, but
she felt very angry.

"Monsieur is too kind," she said gravely;
"I had not dreamed of disturbing him so
early as this. I told Moritz that if you
could spare me five minutes before dinner,
I should be very glad ; it is to ask you to
be so kind as to tell Madame Boileau
to call in tomorrow as she goes home from
mass. It will be a great kindness, monsieur,
if you will convey her my request."

Loigerot put his hand on his heart. " I
am always at your service, madame," he
said exclusively. "Morning or night, I am
only too happy to execute your commands
whenever you honour me with them."

His bow was something to see.

Involuntarily Madame Carouse took a
step back, as his bald crown bent itself into
her view.

"Ah, monsieur, I do not know how
to answer you," she said softly, " unless I
say. See what it is to be a soldier ! "

Eudolf Engemann had been impatiently
awaiting an opportunity of taking his
leave.

I must say good-day, madame," he said.
I did not know it was so late."

Madame Carouoe chanced back at him
with a smile.

As Eudolf passed him, Loigerot looked
up and winked his right eye. " Aha !
Time passes quickly when we are pleasantly
enofaofed."

o o

Then he rubbed his hands and chuckled
so loudly that the sound followed Engemann
to the entrance door, and made him hurry
up the street at a much quicker pace than
usual. Madame Carouse remained silent ;
and Loigerot suddenly remembered with
confusion that she had perhaps enjoyed her
tete-tete as much as Engemann had.

He became grave in an instant.

"Then madame wishes me to say to

Madame Boileau that she is to have the
pleasure of calling here tomorrow."

"I thank you, monsieur."

The widow court espied ; she drew back
into her room as if to say that the interview
was over. She was surprised when
Loigerot followed her in. Coming up close
beside her, he said, in a low voice :
"Pardon me, madame. Have you heard
about Madame Boileau's cousin ? "

The widow's heavy eyebrows drew nearer
to one another ; Monsieur Loigerot did
not often venture . across her threshold.
Monsieur Engemann was the only male
guest who came further than the doorway asa
right, unless, indeed, it was Eiesen the
clock-maker ; but then he was a neighbour,
and he regulated all the clocks of the hotel.

"No, monsieur," she said stiffly; ''I
have not seen Madame Boileau lately."

Loigerot was too much bent on telling

bis news to care for the stiff tone in which
she spoke, though at another time it might
have caught his ear and checked his speech.

' Ah ! "  he lowered his voice still more
'When you have something to see. A
young girl arrived yesterday at the Eed
Glove, she "  he stopped suddenly ; for ashe
looked up at his hostess he saw that
her lower lip was full of scorn. The
captain was rather obtuse in perception,
but he could not fail to see that Madame
Carouse had no interest whatever in the
young girl he had been about to describe
to her in rapturous words.

"Indeed!" she said. "Then I may
count on your delivering my message.
Thank you, again, monsieur, for your
kindness and courtesy."

She was too polite to seat herself at
her desk, but the captain felt that he
was expected to go away.

HIS FAINT HEART.

Besides, she uses me with a more exalted respect
than any one else that follows her, "What should I
think on'tV'Ttvelfth Night.

Rudolf Exgemann had walked on very
quickly from the Beauregard till tie reached
the bank. As he approached the clockmaker's
shop he saw that Monsieur Risen
was standing in his doorway, ready to
exchange a morning greeting, but Rudolf
did not want to speak to any one and he
looked another way ; his thoughts were
full of Madame Carouse. He had been
joked about her lately by Loigerot and

VOL. I. o

some of the other regular boarders of the
hotel, and these jokes at her expense had
ruffled his simple, loyal nature.

Rudolf was a fine, tall young fellow,
and he was twenty-four years old ; but he
had lived very quietly at Fribourg with
his father and mother, and since he had
lost them last winter he had not felt much
inclination to seek out friends. As yet
no woman's coquetry towards him had
tarnished the reverence he felt for women.
He was very grateful to Madame Carouse
for her friendliness  that was the name he
gave to her incessant kindness to him ; it
had seemed to him an impertinence that
these common-minded talkers should thus
freely discuss his relations with so perfecta
woman.

She was to him all that a woman of her
age should be, and he felt an indescribable
pleasure in looking at her and listening to

her full, mellow voice. But to-day he felt
troubled, there had been a change in her
manner towards him.

He knew very well that Madame Carouse
rarely admitted Loigerot into her sanctum ;
the captain and Rudolf fellow-clerks did
all their business with Moritz at the bureau
on the right of the entrance ; unless, indeed,
as had happened to Loigerot this
morning, Madame Carouse had sent a
special message to request his presence in
her own room.

"Loigerot does far more for the Beauregard
than I do," Engemann thought. " He
drinks plenty of wine, which I cannot afford
to do, he deserves more of her than I do ;
her friendship for me is simple kindness.
She has a good heart."

He had often gone through this formula
during the last two months, but today,
and indeed once or twice before, ito

2

had not satisfied him ; her manner, even
her looks to-day had changed ; something
beyond her usual kindness puzzled him now.
Madame Carouse had become so grave and
quiet ; her manner was perhaps kinder than
ever, but she seemed less at her ease.
When he recalled her sweet downcast confusion,
and then the melting glance he had
met in those beautiful eyes of hers just
now, an odd sensation that was chiefly
pleasure, but which had yet a thread of
perplexity interwoven with it, kept him
absorbed, even after he had reached the
bank and was seated before his desk. Ashe
went in he had met one of his fellow-clerks
who dined daily at the Hotel Beauregard.


"I congratulate you, Engemann," he
said. *have you got the widow to fix a
day for the wedding ? '

Kudolf merely raised his shoulders and

passed in, but the words went with him.
When he began to write, it seemed as if
he saw on the paper the dark glowing
face of Madame Carouse.

All at once an answer came to the puzzle;
a warm feeling of pleasure filled his veins ;
life seemed to open before him a broad,
smooth path golden with sunshine. Eudolf
asked himself why because he was poor
he should not grasp this pleasant portion
which almost, he believed, might be his
for the asking. It seemed foolish, unmanly,
even to hesitate. The doubt and self-rebuke
which had so often checked him kept silence
now while he asked himself whether the
change he had noted in Madame Carouse
was not meant to encourage his hopes.

The young fellow was too simple to
believe in the extent of the widow's love for
him. He told himself that his admiration
had not displeased her, and that she had

attributed his slowness and coldness to the
real cause  his want of means. In her
generosity she had tried to take away this
barrier in his path, to show him that he was
not to be hindered by it. Still apart from
this he did not like the disparity between
them. She was some years older, but her
perfect beauty would make up for that ; his
independent nature still revolted from the
notion of a wife so much richer than he was.
When the jokers had begun their raillery,
he had not considered the matter seriously,
or he would have shrunk from the idea
of marrying a widow. Living with his
parents, who had told him they had in
their youth married for love, he had grownup
with old-fashioned ideas, one of which
was a fancy that he would like to be the
first and the sole possessor of his wife's
affections, supposing that he ever took a
wife. He had lived so much alone that he

had had more time for reflection than most
young fellows have, and as he was by nature
silent and reticent, he often dreamed about
the future, while his companions enjoyed
the present.

His dream to-day was very distracting.
He found himself sitting idle before his
desk ; but as idleness was not one of his
characteristics he roused himself, and compelled
his attention to fix on the business
of the day. When this was over, he
lingered at his desk till the other clerks
departed, and then he started for a walk.
He often went down to the platform in
front of the Cathedral to look at the franc
view of the blue-green Aar foaming over
its weir, with the far-off background of
snow mountains ; but on this platform on
Saturday afternoon there was a certain
risk of meeting acquaintances ; among them
the stout ex-captain was sure to be found,

chatting with the nurseries who brought
their charges to pLay on the grass ; and
Eudolf especially wished to keep clear of
Loigerot till dinner-time. He, therefore,
found his way to the river-side, some way
from the Monster platform, and then he
walked out towards the country southwards.

He was impatient to see Madame
Carouse again, and yet he shrank from
their next meeting. His pleasant visions
of a love-marriage with a simple girl came
back, and he asked himself whether he
was sure that this beautiful fascinating
woman was really the life-long companion
he coveted.

He knew so little about her ; he had had
no opportunity for long conversations; just
as they began to talk on something more
interesting than usual, Moritz was sure
to bring an interruption ; it seemed as
though they were perpetually checked on

the verge of becoming intimate. And the
young fellow felt that this was likely to
go on ; and with his old-fashioned ideas,
he shrank from venturing; on such an important
affair as marriage on mere liking.
He felt, too, that his present position with
the widow could not continue. Sooner or
later one of these jokes so freely circulated
would reach the ears of Madame Carouse,
and she would feel herself compromised by
his attentions.

A sudden light came to him as he walked
disconsolately along the dull road. The
promised day at Thun would at least be
free from interruptions ; he should get more
talk with her ; he could then judge for himself.
But here his manliness cried out that
he was unworthy to win a woman if he
could consider her in this cold-blooded
fashion, while more worldly promptings
whispered him not to be unwise, not to

allow a romantic scruple to stand in the
way of the prosperous future that lay
before him as the husband of Madame
Carouse.

When he realised her position, he
winced a little ; he thought he should
not like his wife to sit where any strange
idler might, if he chose to take the
trouble, gaze through the window at her,
even speak to her, and then he laughed
and told himself not to be premature.
One of his perplexities had, however, left
him ; without owning his conquest to himself
in any boastful manner, he seemed
to-day to have lost doubt and fear about
Madame Carouse's feelings for him.

*'I must leave it all till Sunday comes,"
he thought : 'that day at Thun will be a
deciding point." His mind was more at
ease, and turning back by a cross-road
he soon came in sight of the town-gate

flanked with the stone bears, that seem
to defy intruders to enter Berne.

He looked at his watch. He was surprised
to find how late it was ; he had
scarcely time to go to his lodgings before
the table cVliote.

He went rapidly along under the quaint
arcades. Just as he reached the Eed Glove his
two fellow clerks who frequented the Beauregard
came laughing out of the shop. They
saw Engemann, and blocked up the way.

I say, Engemann, the captain has not
such bad taste after all. Go into the shop
and look at the girl'' one of them said.

'she is too pale and slender for
Engemann," the other said. " Don't you
make any mistake, he will see no beauty
in her ; he likes something more full-blown
; he's fond of colour."

The last speaker was a mere lad, and
Kudolf looked sternly at him.

Look here, Wengern," he said, " that's
enough ; a joke is well enough in limits,
but a joke carried too far is very bad and
offensive. I wish you good evening."

He looked calm and determined ; the
clerks walked away ; but when they got
to a safe distance, they sniggered about
the airs  the young giant " gave himself.

Till this meeting with his companions,
Kudolf had forgotten the captain's adventure.
Now he looked in through the
glass door of the shop and caught a
glimpse of Madame Boileau's cousin.
She stood behind the counter with her
handkerchief to her eyes. He heard the
old woman's harsh voice, and glancing
towards the desk, he saw that his oily-speaking
landlady's small eyes gleamed
with anger. Kudolf gave another backward
glance at Marie.

Poor crirl ! It's a shame," he thought.

'that she should be made to cry. I
dare say she laughed when those fellows
talked to her ; probably she could not
help it, and the old woman is a dragon.
Well, she should not have a young girl
in her shop in a town like Berne."

This was evidently not an opportune
moment in which to make acquaintance
with Madame Boileau's cousin, though
Wengern's observation had made him a
little curious about her. *' There is plenty
of time for that," he thought, as he
opened the house door. Before he reached
the staircase his landlady's shrill voice
made itself distinct.

I tell you it must be done : a customer
is a customer, and his gloves must be duly
measured. Do you suppose, you vain little
hussy, that a gentleman thinks who it is
that measures him ? He thinks of his
gloves, that is all."

Eudolf hurried upstairs, and so lost the
end of the scolding.

The bell had rung for table d'hote before
he reached the hotel ; he found every one
busy eating soup, except a few late arrivals
who sat tucking the corners of their table-napkins
into their waistcoats up to their
throats. Presently two clerks began to
tease Loigerot about the pretty shop-girl
at the Eed Glove.

** Ah, yes, Engemann, did you see her
after we left you ? " said one of them.

The captain looked sharply at Rudolf
as he answered. " I only got a glimpse
of her through the window."

'did I not tell you?" the young one
began ; but a nudge from his companion
silenced him, and as Captain Loigerot at
once started a fresh subject, no more was
said about the Red Glove.

When dinner came at last to an end,

Eudolf took care to leave the hotel with
the others. He resolved not to give fresh
food to these gossips on the subject of his
interviews with Madame Carouse.

BOBINEAU LOSES HER SUPPER.

There be that can pack the cards, and yet cannot
play well."  Bacon.

In all negotiations of difficulty, a man may not
look to sow and reap at once ; but must prepare
business, and so ripen it by degrees."  Bacon.

Madame Boileau never failed in lier
attendance at early mass on Sundays and
on Church festivals, and as the Hotel
Beauregard lay in her way home, she
sometimes called in to see the widow.
Madame Carouse was sure to be in her
bureau, for it must be confessed that she
had a horror of early rising, and preferred
high mass to the services that preceded it.

Madame Boileau said it feasted her
eyes to get even a glimpse of the beautiful
widow  certainly she managed to combine
this kind of refreshment with the hope
of a more material feast ; and in this
prospect of carrying home an excellent
Sunday dinner it had become a habit with
the old woman to take occasionally a small
flag-basket to church. She contrived to
fasten this under her ample skirt, and she
only produced it when she saw that Madame
Carouse had some dainties to offer her.

Sometimes a half chicken or a tempting
sweetbread fell to her lot, or a dish of
cutlets or stewed kidneys would be ready
packed for her in a little covered tureen,
and to this Madame Carouse often added
a half-bottle of Macon or of Diedesheimer.
Yesterday, however, a distinct message
had been sent to the mistress of the Eed
Glove, through Captain Loigerot, that she

VOL. I. p

was to call without fail next morning at the
Beauregard. But though Madame Boileau
felt her appetite quicken at the prospect of
sundry possible dainties, she did not intend
to share them with Marie, and she resolved to
deny herself the enjoyment of them till after
supper; her former shop-girls had spent their
Sundays at home ; but she was Marie's only
friend in Berne, and the girl of necessity
must dine and sup with her. It was, however,
possible, she reflected as she drew near
the hotel, that her liberal friend, in consideration
of Marie, might bestow a double portion
of good things on this especial Sunday.
Madame Boileau smacked her thin lips
with expectation as she went along. " So
much the better for me, and for Marie too, if
I keep all for myself," she said; "it is not
well to pamper a young girl, and run the
risk of upsetting her stomach. Marie cannot
have been used to dainties at the convent."

With this reflection she stepped cheerfully
into the entrance of the Beauregard.
Moritz's pensive, consumptive-looking face
showed at the door of his bureau, but when
he saw Madame Boileau, he bowed and
grinned and retreated, in spite of the elaborate
courtesy and smile with which she
greeted him. The old glover was one of the
visitors at the hotel Moritz did not like.

She went round softly to the glazed end
of the widow's parlour; the door stood
open ; but her cat-like tread made no
sound, and Madame Carouse gave a little
start when she found the old woman's eyes
fixed on her in intense scrutiny.

The widow was sitting on her sofa in
deep thought, and she had to force a
smile, for the interruption came at a
wrong moment. She was trying, for
about the twentieth time, to give herself
a reason why Monsieur Engemann had

p 2

not lingered to speak to her after dinner
yesterday. She felt chilled and disquieted.
And yet he had often before gone out in
this way with his friends ; but then, she
argued to herself, yesterday morning's
interview had completely changed their
relations to one another ; he had never
looked at her as he had looked yesterday
morning. Love had shone in his eyes, and
who could say but for that tiresome Captain
Loigerot he might have declared his passion.

She frowned a little as this idea presented
itself, and looking up found herself face to
face with Madame Boileau.

The mistress of the Red Glove looked
at this moment so like an old witch
that Madame Carouse shivered and turned
slightly pale. She felt as if the inquisitive
old woman had been reading her secret
thoughts. But she spoke to her pleasantly.

Good morning, neighbour ; you are

earlier from mass than usual. How have
you been lately ? "

Madame Boileau kept the widow's soft,
golden-brown hand in her lean grasp, and
gazed admiringly in her rich friend's handsome
face.

*' Much as usual, I thank you, madame.
There is no need to ask how you are,"
she said. " You look like a newly-opened
rose, with your eyes as bright as diamonds."

Madame Carouse turned away with a
perceptible shrug of the shoulders ; there
was little variety in the old woman's compliments,
and she was not in a mood for
such flattery this morning.

The bead-like eyes of the old glover
looked keenly round the room, but they
could not spy any parcel likely to contain
the dainties she longed after.

"You were so good, madame," she said
humbly, '* as to send me word by Captain

Loigerot  ah, what an excellent gentleman
he is !  that you wished me to call in on
my way from mass this morning."

Ah ! so I did. I had forgotten ; yes."
Madame Carouse spoke with studied carelessness.
She saw the greedy eyes furtively
searching every corner, and she
enjoyed Madame Boileau's anxiety. " Let
me see  what was it ?  I remember : Captain
Loigerot told me that you have
adopted a young relative ; that you have
her in your shop-madame

Boileau's hopes sank ; but
then this question might bear on the extra
supply of dainties she was hoping for.

I was coming, dear madame, without
your summons, to tell you about her. You
are always so kind to me that I have
ventured to believe you would take some
interest in my little cousin."

Ah, then, it is a child that you have

adopted. But will you not find it a
troublesome charge ? You will have to
send it to school, my good Madame Boileau
; you cannot keep a child in the shop."

It is not so bad as that ; she has been
at school at Lucerne," the old woman
answered. ' It is indeed a heavy burden
on me," she went on in a whining voice ;
' but what could I do ? I could not leave
my poor Berthold's child to be a burden to
strangers, and I  I want help in the shop."

Madame Carouse looked grave.

Help in your shop ! How old is the
child ? And what is she like ? "

Madame Boileau's eyes became keener
than ever.

*'Oh,madame, after all she is very ordinary
to look at  a girl of sixteen or thereabouts 
a simple child fresh from her convent."

In that case "  a slight frown contracted
the widow's smooth forehead, and

her full, rich voice became hard and dry 
"I do not think a glove-shop is a good
beginning for her. She would be safer
at a dressmaker's, or even in a draper's
shop. In your shop she will get stared
at, and perhaps be taught to flirt."

Madame Boileau was at once aggrieved
and alarmed.

I am also in the shop, madame, or
at worst I can see all that passes through
the glass door. But I assure you Marie
is more inclined to prudery than to
flirting. Why, only yesterday, when two
of your boarders came in, the little chit
actually let them choose and measure
their own gloves themselves ; and when I
scolded her, ' she did not care to touch
men's hands she said."

What did you expect her to do,
then ? " The widow could not help
smiling at Madame Boileau's indignation.

'* Well, my dear madame, I had bid her
measure the customers ; and you will, I
am sure, agree with me that a girl of
that age should do as she is bid, and
should not take up ideas of her own."

Madame Carouse was so amused that
her pearly teeth showed plainly.

"Actually, madame," the old woman
went on, " she had the face to tell me
that the gentlemen stared at her, and
that she considered them impertinent."

Perhaps they did stare rudely," said
Madame Carouse thoughtfully. " I tell
you young men will stare at shop-girls,
they consider it their right. AVho did
did you say they were ? "

'two of your boarders, madame 
young Monsieur Wengern and Monsieur
Christen. I am sure they are very civil,
quiet gentlemen."

'they may have been too civil, my

good woman "  the widow's manner was
still constrained  'but this young cousin
of yours must be pretty : those are not
young men who would care to look at
a plain girl."

Yes, madame, the girl is passable."
Then remembering that Madame Carouse
would probably go to the Red Glove
and form her own judgment of Marie,
Captain Loigerot indeed says she is
pretty ; " she shrugged her shoulders,
'but "

Good heavens ! Do you mean to
say," Madame Carouse interrupted so
sharply that the old woman's eyes and
mouth opened simultaneously, " do you
tell me that you have this young and
pretty girl to live in your house, so
that she makes acquaintance with your
lodgers ? "

Madame Boileau cringed and trembled.

She felt almost scorched by the fire that
blazed in the widow's usually soft, velvet-like
eyes.

"No, no, indeed, madame. I ask a
hundred pardons ; but madame has altogether
mistaken me. Marie does not
sleep at the Red Glove  dear me, no ;
I could not have dreamed of anything so
improper. She has a lodging in the
Cour du Puts, and when she is at the
Eed Glove, by no chance does she go into
the passage reserved for the lodgers."

"Then in what way has Monsieur
Loigerot made acquaintance with her ? 
He is not a man to buy gloves."

The widow looked stern and unbelieving.


"Madame is right, as she always is."
Boileau spoke fawningly, and put her
lean, hooked fingers on the arm of her
beautiful friend. But the widow freed

herself by an impatient movement. " It is
true that the captain does not buy gloves ;
but on the morning of Marie's arrival he saw
the girl near the station, and showed her the
way to my house. The captain is a kind,
fatherly man, madam e. Only last night,
when I was talking to him and to Monsieur
Engemann  ah, is not that a beautiful
young man ?  the captain said I ought
to  to interest you in my little cousin."

She stammered over the last words, for
another scorching glance told her that her
speech had given offence.

Madame Carouse's broad eyebrows knit,
she raised her head proudly, and seemed
to the frightened old woman to look
grander and more beautiful than ever.

Do you mean me to understand,
Madame Boileau, that at your age and
with your experience, you allow yourself
to talk to your gentlemen lodgers about

your shop-girl ? You must excuse me if
I say that your young cousin would have
done well to stay in her convent ; you have
proved to me that she would be safer there
than she is likely to be under your care."

She spoke haughtily, her words seemed
to stab her listener, who almost choked with
alarm  there was no hope of supper now.

Pardon me ; you mistake me, madame,"
she said. " It happened this way : Captain
Loio:erot came in last night with Monsieur
Engemann, and as I happened to be in the
passage, the captain asked me after the little
girl he had met near the railway station."

"The captain is not young, there is
not so much harm in speaking to him
about the child," Madame Carouse spoke
very severely ; " but I am shocked that
you should talk about a young girl to
Monsieur Ensemann "

She stopped suddenly, as if she had

said too much. Madame Boileau sighed

o

with relief.

"Ah, dear madame, I did not indeed'
she spoke in her most fawning tone ; ' but
of all the gentlemen in Berne, I consider
Monsieur Engemann the safest  as safe asa
married man." Here she gave a rather
cynical smile, as if her assertion amused
her. "How could it be possible for a
gentleman to worship you, madame, and
to have eyes for any other woman ! No,
madame, believe me Monsieur Engemann
will not even look at my little cousin."

If Madame Carouse had been standing:,
she would have stamped with impatience
at the old woman's indiscretion.

"You are making a great mistake,
Madame Boileau." She spoke with chill
dignity. " You have been listening to
gossip, I fear. I am not thinking about
Monsieur Wengern, or Monsieur Enge-

mann, or any gentleman in particular.
I am trying to show you how best to take
care of your little cousin, and to keep
her out of mischief. It seems to me I
am a fitter counsellor in the matter than
Captain Loigerot is."

Ah, madame'' the old woman rose
and courtesies ; she literally quivered
with the fear of having lost her supper,
'you are as wise as you are beautiful.
Advise me, I beg of you ; I will follow
your advice in all things''

'* Then," said Madame Carouse, smiling,
'* my advice is  the best thing you can dois
to find a husband to take care of this
young girl as soon as possible."

Madame Boileau clasped her skinny
hands, and turned up her little black eyes.

A husband ! But, dear madame, she is
a little beggar, she has not a penny ; and
although I am willing to feed and clothe

her, I am not able to provide her with
a marriage portion. Heavens ! I should
think not, a poor old woman like me ! "

Madame Carouse gave her a smile full
of scorn.

I see you do not want advice, Madame
Boileau ; your mind is made up. Good !
go your own way ; but when you come
to me in a few months' time to complain
that your little cousin is impertinent, and
that her head is turned with flattery,
or perhaps, even  there are plenty of bad
people in Berne  that she is ruined, I
shall have no pity for you  none."

She rose up, and shaking out her skirts
as if she dismissed the subject and her
visitor, she went slowly to her desk.

Madame Boileau followed her and
touched her arm. The old woman's lean
fingers trembled ; had she actually offended
her best friend for the sake of a chit
like Marie ?

Madame will Lave the goodness to pardon
me. I should be an old fool to set
my judgment up against hers ; indeed, I
did not mean to do so. If madame can
find any one who who is able to maintain
a wife, and is willing to take Marie without
a portion, she shall marry him. I will see
to that."

Madame Carouoe smiled. ' That is right.
Now you show your sense. Leave it then
to me ; I will find your little Marie a
husband. And now, my good friend, I
must ask you to leave me, or I shall
be late at mass."

There was plainly to-day no forthcoming
supper for Madame Boileau,
and after prolonging her leave-taking as
long as she dared, she departed, smarting
with vexation and disappointed greed, of
which she considered Marie the primary
cause.

VOL. I. Q

Marriage for the little chit ! How
could Madame Carouse be so foolish ?
It would be much better to leave the girl
alone. Just as she had had the trouble
of teaching Marie her duties, the child
was to be distracted with this notion of
marriage ! And the worst of it was, there
was no way out of it : the beautiful
widow always kept her promises.

HOPE AND FEAR,

Methinks I feel this youth's perfections, with an
invisible and subtle stealth, to creep in at mine eyes."
Shakespeare.

Madame Carouse stood still for sometime
after the old woman's departure. She
was so absorbed in thinking that she failed
to hear a tap at her door  at first timid,
then smartly repeated.

Madame Boileau had left the door
of the room partly open  and the widow
started when she heard a familiar voice
say, * May I come in ? "

Madame Carouse opened the door fully.

Q 2

How do you do, Monsieur Eiesen ? " she
said. *' You have something pleasant to
tell me, I am sure."

She seated herself on the sofa, and patting
it, smiled graciously at her visitor.

Monsieur Eiesen took the seat indicated,
making a remarkable contrast to his hostess.
He was a tall, large-boned man with a
sickly complexion, gray hair, and large,
deep-set gray eyes. His face was so thin
that his eyes had sunk back, and seemed
to peer suspiciously through his dark,
shaggy eyebrows, as he stooped forward
to listen.

\Vell, madame," he said, '' as for pleasant
news I am not sure whether you will
think mine so. Here is another fine Sunday,
and I regret to say I am still obliged to
defer our excursion to Thun ; and who
knows ? next Sunday may bring torrents of
rain with it. But it is always so, is it not ? '*

He looked so melancholy that lie
laughed.

That Sunday always brings torrents of
rain ? Xo, my good friend, and to-day
gives you contradiction. Look at the
sunshine on my palms and ferns. But
then is it really settled that we go next
Sunday ? Ah ! I am glad."

She clapped her hands, as he nodded
assent, with a gaiety that scarcely harmonised
with the intense expression in her
eyes or with the grand lines of her figure.

Eiesen was enchanted. He had not
expected his news to be received so
pleasantly.

* You look divine to-day, madame." He
bent his long back as he sat beside her, and
spoke in an insinuating whisper. ' After all,
it will not matter what sort of weather we
have for our excursion : we have only to look
at you to feel sure that sunshine is with us."

prettily said, monsieur." She gave
Lin a radiant smile. 'But I prefer real
sunshine. It is a pity we could not go
to-day."

*eyes, it is a pity," he sighed, "but then
life is full of these vexations for me '  he
put his hand on his chest. " I am old, and
life is now always vexing ; but to you,
young, rich, and beautiful, all vexation
should be spared, every wish ought to be
fulfilled. It is grievous to me that I should
in any way cause you disappointment."

She turned suddenly and faced him.

*' Is it, then, quite impossible we can go
to-day ? "

'* I grieve to say. Yes, dear madame.
Various reasons have concurred to make it
out of the question."

This seemed to Monsieur Risen the
safest answer he could make. He felt
sure that the fact of his being more than

usually dyspeptic to-day would not be
accepted by Madame Carouse as a
sufficient reason for his refusal.

'you must really try not to disappoint
me again, monsieur'  she pouted a little,
and thereby looked more charming than
ever. 'but how is it that you have come
to see me ? 1 thought you were a devout
Protestant, Monsieur Eieseo, and were
always in church at this time of day ? "

"Well, yes''  he drew a long face, and
got up unwillingly  "but it is so pleasant
to get a talk with you, and also I feared you
might be making some other engagement
for next Sunday. If we have a day like
this, it will be delightful, though it is
not I who shall enjoy the excursion to
perfection."

He sighed and raised his eyebrows with
an envious look.

Of this Madame Carouse took no notice,

but she shook her head in rebuke of
his words. '* You ought to enjoy it thoroughly,
monsieur ; you will have the
benefit and the pleasure of an open-air
holiday in the society of your wife. I often
hear her say she gets so little of your society,
your business takes you much away from
her. Now on Sunday it will be your
business to be with her  duty and pleasure
will be combined." She smiled, but there
was a spice of mischief in her eyes.

Kiesen made a grimace. *duty and
pleasure," he repeated, then he shook his
head. " Do you enjoy things because you
ought ? " he said in a tender half whisper.
''No, no, dear friend, believe me, true
pleasure and duty were never yet mated ;
and yet," he gave her a look of warm admiration,
" I could fancy a case where this
might well happen. In mine, life is all
duty, pleasure is an unknown quantity."

Hush," Madame Carouse smiled, but
she spoke imperiously,  you are talking
treason, and you know it."

She looked so scornful that Eiesen winced.
She rose up before he had found an
answer.

You will, I know, excuse me, neighbour,"
she said politely ; '* the truth is that I am a
little hurried this morning."

He got up from the sofa and she held out
her hand with a winning smile that took
the sting out of her previous words.

*' Au revoir," she said.

I look forward to that happiness,"
the clock-maker answered. And he was
obliged to depart.

Madame Carouse opened the door communicating
with the bureau.

"Moritz!" she called.

In an instant the thin-faced waiter appeared
before her.

If any one wants me this morning, say
I am gone to church."

'eyes, madame."

Moritz returned to his desk with a
pleased smile, and Madame Carouse went
to her bedroom. But she did not get
ready for church.

She placed herself before her looking-glass
and stood there several minutes earnestly
gazing at the reflection she saw in it.

Yes, I must be beautiful," she thought.
*' I cannot remember the time when I was
not made to know it." She turned from
the glass with a look of disgust. *' If
they only guessed how sick I am of hearing
their flattery ! What do I know ? It
is perhaps because Kudolf has never paid
me a compliment that I love him  love
him. Ah ! dear fellow, how I love him ! '*

She hid her glowing face between her
hands and sat down in an easy-chair.

Presently she let Iter hands fall in her
lap ; her lip curved upward and showed
her lovely teeth.

'how little one knows one's self ! How
often through those long dull years I said,
Ah ! when I get my liberty, I will never
lose it again. I will be free  free as a
bird  for the rest of my life ! ' " She
laughed a little at the thought her words
called up. 'poor little Chdri singing in
his cage down-stairs would be wiser than
I have been, if he found his cage door
open. Carouse has been dead only two
years, and I am already tired of my
liberty. I have none left." She struck
her closed hand on the marble shelf below
her mirror. "My married life was only
imprisonment, bodily imprisonment  at
least my heart was free, but now I do not
seem to belong to myself. What a weak
creature I am ! I only feel really living

in Rudolf's presence  all the space between
our meetings is like a dull dream that has
to be got through somehow."

She sat thinking. It was such a chance
that she had known him ! If she had
followed the suggestion of Carouse's man
of business, Eudolf Engemann would still
have been a stranger to her. At the time
that she learned that her husband had left
her all he possessed, she was advised to
live for a while in retirement, and it was
suggested that Moritz, the head waiter of
the Hotel Beauregard, was capable of carrying
on the business for her benefit.

Even now she smiled as she remembered
her answer, and the surprise it had elicited.

She had looked steadily in the ftice of
the sleek, stolid man of business, who she
knew considered her a pretty doll, for
whom everything must be arranged.

"Monsieur," she said, *I am eight-and-twenty

 quite old enough to take care of
myself and the Beauregard. Moritz can
manage, I am sure, better under me than
he could without me."

And the lawyer had been obliged to
own at the end of the first few months
that the hotel was far more flourishing
since the beautiful young widow had established
herself there. She gave all her
orders through Moritz, and the waiter washer
slave. Although she had remodelled
the household, and made changes in the internal
arrangements which gave him much
trouble, he had never murmured, but had
striven to soften the ill-will shown by some
of the older servants towards the new
mistress.

Now as the widow sat musing she was
half-ashamed of, half-amused at, the excitement
which Madame Boileau's visit had
awakened in her ; and, growing calm again.

lie asked herself what had been the use
of her studies in these past years if she
could be made jealous and suspicious by
a mere idea. Had she not taught herself
to believe that true love could not change ?
If this were so, she was unreasonable to
doubt Rudolf Engemann. She knew she
had lived on in the hope that one day
she should go out into the world and find
the other half of her soul which she had
dreamed of.

Captain Loigerot had some time before
introduced himself to her as her husband's
friend, and one day, six months ago, he
had solemnly presented to her Monsieur
Rudolf Engemann, a gentleman newly
arrived from Fribourg, who was about to
take up his residence in Berne, and who
wished to become a boarder at the Hotel
Beauregard.

"When she sat alone in the evening after

that short interview, Madame Carouse knew
that she had seen the realisation of her
dream. The conviction came to her with a
certainty which left no doubt of its truth.

Since her husband's death  about two
years ago  she had lived in as much
seclusion as her position would allow, and
yet she could not help seeing the universal
admiration her beauty excited among the
visitors at the Beauregard. She had
not been aware that Eudolf Engemann
admired her. He had looked at her attentively,
but as she met his gaze, instead
of thinking of herself, her thoughts had
at once occupied themselves with him ;
indeed, he had ever since held them captive,
ceaselessly filled with his image.

A strangely new life had begun for her.
Instead of the haughty self-reliance she
had so diligently striven to cultivate  for
intercourse with her fellows had taught the

keen-witted woman that as she esteemed
herself so would others esteem her  she
had lately felt timidly anxious about the
impression she made on this young Swiss.
His manner and his attentions almost satisfied
her when she was with him, but in his
absence fear and harassing doubts attested
the strength of her love. Every day she
sought anxiously in her glass for a trace
of the years which she knew made her
older than Monsieur Engemann, but her
love-fraught eyes only made her look more
attractive ; she could not see any mark of
Time's fingers.

"I wrong him too much," she thought,
by these silly doubts : if Eudolf loves me,
he could not easily give me up ; and if he
does not love me, can I wish to keep his
attentions ? "

But she could not answer this question.
She rose and looked once more at herself.

Her face and figure seemed to her very
attractive, but if her beauty did not satisfy
Eudolf, she felt that her pride in it was
over; she would cast it all away if she
could become that which he desired.

* Nonsense ! he loves me," she said softly
to herself, the light of hope shining in the
dark beauty of her eyes. " They cannot all
be wrong; he does love me: see how the
captain stands aloof when Eudolf is with
me. Kiesen and his wife and Madame
Boileau, and others also ; they all think
that he loves me, for they hint at it often ;
they cannot all deceive themselves. I am
faint-hearted, that is aU."

Then she remembered that true love was
rarely self-confident, and this truth might
apply to Eudolf as well as to herself. In his
case the knowledge that she was wealthy
would, if she judged him rightly, revolt
his independence and tie his tongue.

VOL. I. B

Once more she told herself blushing,
that when Sunday came, she should have
her longed-for opportunity, and she must try
to give her lover decided encouragement ;
she must study his feelings instead of her
own dignity.

It is too late for mass to-day," she said.

THE BEAR-PIT.

Love is such a simple thing when we have only
one-and-twenty summers and a sweet girl of seventeen
trembles under our glance, as if she were a bud first
opening her heart, with wondering rapture, to the
morning. Such young, unfurrowed souls roll to meet
each other like two velvet peaches that touch softly
and are at rest."  Adam Bede.

Last Sunday had been rainy; the bright sunshine
of to-day put all the holiday-makers
in good-humour, and they came trooping
along with gay, expectant Sunday faces.
They flocked out of the tall houses on each
side of the honor street that stretches from
one end of the town to the other till it

R 2

readiest the Nydeck Bridge ; they came,
too, in merry groups from the side streets
and alleys, till the long street seemed filled
with the wearers of straw hats and bonnets
trimmed with knots and garlands of flowers.
The women and girls wore chiefly sombre-coloured
skirts, but many of them had the
dazzling white sleeves and chemisettes and
the 2[litterin2: silver chains and brooches
of the canton.

A buzz of talk went on amonsf the
holiday-makers ; there W' ere plenty of children
in Sunday garb, and with round,
festive faces, their eyes big with anticipation
; they where going to the Cathedral
platform to cat cakes and play on the grass.
There were few men in the crowd. Most
of them had lounsfcd ofi" in the direction of
the Engc or of the bastions. A few, however,
with stolid, patient faces, went on
with their women and children, but these

kept on past the turning to the Minster,
along the street, till they reached the bridge
which unites the long promontory on which
the city stands to the country beyond it.
Many of these people were of the poorest
class, and they were going to pay their
Sunday visit to the living legend of their
city, the famous bears of Berne.

Marie and Madame Boileau were in
the crowd. The old woman looked cheerful ;
her feelings had been soothed soon after she
reached home by the arrival of a basket
from the Hotel Beauregard. Inside it she
had found so ample a repast that she had
actually given Marie some cutlets for her
dinner. She was looking forward to a
luxurious supper when the girl went home
to her lodging.

Marie was in ecstasy at all she saw ; as
she walked along she thought Berne was
the most beautiful place she had ever

dreamed of ; and indeed there was a succession
of brilliant pictures. To-day the bright
sun-glow brought every point into high
relief; the quaint fountains looked more
quaint and many-coloured ; the gay stripes
of the red and orange window-blinds had
never seemed so vivid ; and the dazzling
effects of light and shade in the arcaded
streets, with the happy people, made constant
pictures. The girl's eyes seemed to
dance with happiness as she moved airily
along beside her slow-paced old companion.
They have reached the end of the street.
On the right is the bridge, and in front
of them is the beautiful blue-oreen river
shimmering in the warm sunshine. Close
by is another of the gray-green fountains ;
this one is guarded by an armed warrior,
and Marie's delight increases. A group of
merry little ones are dancing and singing
hand in hand round a woman, who bends

over the fountain while she fills her
buckets.

Ah, the dear little children ! " the girl
cries out ; " how pretty they are ! "

Have a care, there ! " the woman cries.
*Lieschen, Aline, and you, Wilhelm. The
water will fill your shoes and spoil your
Sunday clothes. Have a care, there, you
little plagues ! " But the little ones go on
dancing.

"Ah, the dear little children, how happy
they are ! ''' sr.ys Marie. She longs to join
hands with them, but Madame Boileau will
not stop ; she plods slowly on to the bridge.

Come, come along, Marie ; you must
never loiter in the street, child ; come'*
for Marie pauses again to look up the
river. "You were loitering, no doubt,
when Captain Loigerot spoke to you.
Ah ! " she sighs, " well for you that you
met with so honourable a gentleman. It

is most improper for a girl to speak with
a transfer." She shakes her head and

o

frowns.

When Madame Boileau frowns and
scolds her very much, Marie is strongly
tempted to go back to the Sisters ; but
to-day this feeling does not last ; she likes
the consciousness of independence ; she is
earning her own living while she remains
with Madame Boileau, and it seems
cowardly to give up in despair because an
old woman, who in other respects treats
her fairly, has a trick of scolding. The
sunshine and the fresh air, the moving
crowd, the smiling, happy faces, the genial
holiday spirit that seems to fill the air,
have taken possession of the girl ; her
spirits rise ; they are as gay as they used
to be at St. Esprit ; she laughs out, and
looks at Madame Boileau.

'pardon me if I laugh, madame'' she

says shyly, for lie sees rebuke in her cousin's
face. "I did not feel afraid of that old
gentleman, the captain ; he could not eat
me up, as the ogre on the fountain eats the
children. Do not fear; I am very strong.
I would not let any one steal my purse ;
and if any one did steal it, he would not
find much in it'' the clear young voice
goes on merrily. "Ah!" she cries, 'this
is delightful ! Thank you so much for
bringing me here. Oh, madame, you cannot
think how happy I feel ! "

She looks at Madame Boileau with
sparkling eyes. Her gaiety is infectious,
and it softens the old woman a little. In a
few minutes they reach the platform in front
of the bear-pit, and are standing under the
shade of the trees, among the chattering,
merry groups who have come all this way
to see the bears of Berne. Men, and women,
and a crowd of little children loiter about

the stalls near the pit. These stalls are
very showy, covered with toys and nick-nacks,
"souvenirs de Berne " in the shape of
small carved wooden tokens  bears, white,
and brown, and black, and in all kinds
of attitudes ; boxes, and trays, and inkstands,
and Swiss chalets innumerable ;
albums of dried Alpine flowers, and photographs
of the town and environs. Beyond
are tables on which heaps of buns, and
cakes, and carrots are exhibited ; these are
propitiatory offerings for the shaggy idols
in the dens below.

Marie cannot yet see the bears ; it is
early, and they have not come out to
greet their friends. The crowd, however,
having duly inspected the stalls, and made
some purchases, is now moving away
from them to the bear-pit, and in a few
minutes it has formed itself into a thick
screen along the edge of the deep pit.

Marie is not in a hurry to see the bears ;
this concourse of happy people and the
gay stalls glittering in the sunshine make
for her a spectacle she has never before
witnessed.

''Do but see, dear madame"  she pulls
Madame Boileau s shawl to make her stop
" do but look at the toy bears. Ah, the
pretty little beasts ! and I thought bears
were huge, ugly monsters ! See, here are
white bears, and here are brown ones ;
and oh ! here are some who carry parasols,
and some smoke pipes, and some  ah ! "
here she laughs aoain  '' but these are
droll beyond belief; here is a bear who
teaches his little scholars. See them ! seethe
dear little beasts ; there are eight, and
they sit on a bench side by side, and
he, the teacher, has spectacles ; and oh,
madame, here is another bear who paints,
and his picture is the Lake of Lucerne ! "

She claps lier hands and cries out joyfully
: '' Ah, my beloved lake ! "

'* Chut ! " says Madame Boileau ; ' we
shall have a crowd round us, child.
Heavens ! you must learn to behave yourself;
people will think you are a savage,
Marie."

But Marie leaves off laughing ; her
mood is suddenly changed. Close beside
her on the stall she sees some dried white
flowers. Her lips part in wonder, for she
recognises them ; they are edelweiss blossoms,
and she knows that they must have
been feathered on the heights of the snow
mountains she so dearly loves.

"See, madame," she says, but her voice
is hushed and grave, " these are the lovely
snow-flowers, the edelweiss." She looks at
them with reverence. "Is it not as if
the snow itself had budded into blossom ? "

Madame Boileau turns quickly away ;

she thinks the girl will follow her ; but as
Marie looks up from the edelweiss to the
faces of the people near her, she meets a
pair of blue eyes fixed intently on her own.
A tall young man is standing close beside
her. Marie moves on after her cousin, but
the owner of the blue eyes has taken a
shorter way, and when she reaches Madame
Boileau, she finds the same pleasant-looking
stranger speaking to her old cousin.

' You did not see me just now, madame,"
says Monsieur Engemann. " Have you
come to have a look at the bears ? So
have I ; and this is your cousin, is it not ? "

Marie has been gazing at him ; she thinks
he is nicer than any one she has seen in
Berne  he is so tall and so handsome. She
feels taken by surprise, when he pulls off
his hat and bows to her.

His fair hair is golden in the sunshine, and
there is a happy, peaceful look on his broad

forehead and in his blue eyes, Marie thinks.
Though he is so very tall, she does not feel
afraid of him, he looks so kindly at her.

Madame Boileau makes another courtesy
to her lodger. *'I am your humble
servant, monsieur, and I thank you for
your condescension. Yes, we are going to
look at the bears. I wish you good-day,
monsieur, we will not intrude on you."

She takes Marie's arm, and is proceeding
to the further side of the bear-pit.

'pardon me"  Engemann places himself
before her  " but it is perhaps the first
time that mademoiselle has seen the bears,
and she cannot see them so well from that
side ; the people feed them there "  he
looks over his shoulder. *' If you will
allow me, madame, I will find a place for
mademoiselle here in the front. Be so
kind as to follow me, mademoiselle."

He looks so kindly at Marie that she

follows him ; the crowd falls away before
his massive figure, and he soon finds a
place for her in front beside the low wall
which circles round the edge of the den.

Down below, a monstrous brown bear
and a smaller black one are walking on
their hind-legs round the paved circuit of
the pit above which Marie stands. The
bears seem much too lazy to climb the tall
tree in the midst of the den, and the surface
of the wall round their prison is too
smooth to osier any foothold, yet Marie
draws away shuddering, she thinks they
look so strong and savage.

Do not be afraid," her companion says
kindly ; '*' the bears cannot reach you here,
nor can they escape from their den. Look,
look, mademoiselle, that comical brown
beast bows to you."

He laughs heartily, and as Marie listens to
him she feels reassured. She has forgotten

Madame Boileau for the moment ; and that
old woman is in the friendly grasp of her
old friend and compatriot, Monsieur Lenoir,
the chief hair-dresser, and, it must be confessed,
the chief retailer of gossip, in Berne.

Madame Boileau is thankful that the
crowd has made Marie invisible to them. Monsieur
Eugemann's fair head towers above the
rest, but it is impossible to see his companion.

This is, indeed, a pleasure'' says Monsieur
Lenoir, and he is polite enough to
add, " the pleasant for being unexpected,
eh, my friend ? "

Lenoir puts his head on one side, and
his pointed chin digs into his collar. He
is a little, dapper man, with small, thin
legs, and he is irresistibly like a tomtit ; his
black eyebrows seem almost to encircle his
eyes, and he is always in movement ; even
when his restless body is still, his head is
bent verily from side to side.

*' I should have remembered," he says,
before Madame Boileau's answer is ready,
*' it is for mademoiselle your cousin's sake
you came here. Yes, yes, it is like your
kindness," and now jerks of complete satisfaction
go through his restless body ; the
jerks have not far to go, but they denote
intense enjoyment. ' Now you will present
me to the charming cousin. There, there " 
he puts up his hand to silence Madame Boileau's
attempt at deprecation. " She is charming,
I hear ; a little bird has told me so ; "
he touches his left ear and looks inscrutable.

Madame Boileau is on thorns ; she
longs to get rid of this Argus-eyed chatterer
; however, unless he sees Marie and
Monsieur Engemann together he cannot telltales
; and she begins to walk slowly toward
the outer fringe of the crowd, in the hope
of getting rid of him.

Where do you say the cousin is ? " says
Lenoir, still hungry for information.

VOL. I. s

Madame Boileau offers a thanksgiving
that he has never seen Marie. " I do not
know," she says ; " she is somewhere in
the crowd, I suppose, or she may have
gone home. She left me a while ago. You
must come to the " Ked Glove," and see
her there."

The mistress of the 'seed Glove" is at her
wits' end ; she knows the hair-dresser's pertinacious
curiosity too well to dismiss him
abruptly, and so she walks on beside him, ina
tremor of fear lest Marie and Monsieur
Engemann should suddenly appear together.

Marie is enjoying herself; with such a
powerful-looking protector she feels that it
is childish to give way to terror about the
bears. It is of course true that they cannot
reach her up there. She laughs at the
unwieldy, awkward monster who stands
with one huge paw laid beseechingly on
his hairy chest, while he leers up at her out
of his small red eyes. His shaggy hide is

quivering with excitement, and to all appearance
he is laughing as he opens his
mouth and begs. All at once Marie draws
back aorain and shudders. She has remembered
something she saw on one of the stalls,
a print representing a man who has fallen into
the bear-pit and is struggling for his life with
these horrible monsters while they try to
hug him to death. It is wicked, she
thinks, to pet and play with wild beasts
who only want opportunity to repeat this
cruel tragedy. At this moment a woman beside
her flings the brown bear a large carrot ;
he catches it dexterously in his mouth,
and crunches it amid the loud plaudits of
the spectators. A shower of carrots now
falls into the den, and everybody laughs
at the fawning antics of the bears. But
Marie can no longer enjoy the sight; the grotesque
contrast between the comic gambols
of these monsters and their repulsive,
savage aspect, is horrible, she thinks ; she

cannot forget the tragedy of the poor
Englishman.

"Mademoiselle does not care for the bears?
They are favourites in Berne." Engemann
had been watching her serious face, and
he had seen that she shrank back.

Marie felt ashamed. It seemed ungrateful
not to be pleased with the sight
which this kind gentleman had been at
the trouble of showing her. She had
disappointed him. She raised her eyes with
a protest in them ; but her new friend's
expression soothed her fears : no, he was
not looking vexed. He was, on the
contrary, smiling and looking satisfied
with her, Marie thought, as the Superior
of. St. Esprit used to look ; and besides
this, there was something in his smile
that drew her liking out to him in return ;
she felt trust in him, and at the same time
she hoped very much she should see his
frank, manly face again. Strong feelings

were new to Marie ; there had been nothing
to elicit them among the gentle Sisters,
who had never thwarted her, and who
had by their example taught her content
with her daily lot ; but this strong hope respecting
her new friend came so naturally,
that the girl yielded to it without distrust ;
it was part of the pleasure of this delightful
afternoon.

"Does monsieur then consider that the
bears are handsome ? " she said merrily.

Handsome ! " he said.

Engemann was so much absorbed in
gazing at her, that he forgot an answer
was expected of him ; and when Marie
looked up and met his eyes, he smiled so
pleasantly that she at once reflected his
expression, and moved by a sudden impulse
they both laughed. This somehow
set them at ease, and, indeed, it was quite
natural to laugh at such a grotesque idea
as the beauty of the bears of Berne.

"No, mademoiselle," Engemann said,
*they are not handsome, they are ugly
enough. Are they the first bears that
mademoiselle has seen ? "

No, monsieur." And then her sweet
eyes grew pathetic, and she told him how
a poor Frenchman had come to the convent
leading a sick bear, which the man
said had danced to earn a living for him
and his wife and his little boy  she ended
by telling that the bear had died in an
outhouse.

She told the story so simply, that
Engemann had become deeply interested,
and when she came to the bear's death
and his poor master's sorrow, her eyes
were full of tears.

"It must have been very sad for him,"
said Engemann.

Suddenly a cry of 'marie! Marie!"
came shrilly from the back of the crowd.

Engemann, who had been transported to

the convent of St. Esprit by the tale he
had heard, started ; then he recognised
the voice of his landlady.

"Your cousin is calling for you, mademoiselle,"
he said, and he pushed on before
Marie so as to open a passage for her.

They found Madame Boileau fluttered
and frowning, but she bestowed a smile
on her lodger.

'you have been too kind and condescending,
monsieur," she said quickly.
I am sure the child is greatly honoured
by your consideration." Then, with a
nervous look round her, '* Thank monsieur
for his goodness to you, Marie ; we
must be going home'*

Marie looked grave. She felt disappointed
at this sudden collapse of enjoyment.


'thank you, monsieur," she said, and
then she turned to Madame Boileau ; " it
is early yet, madame, and it will not rain,'

she began. *'0h, please do not go away
madame ; " and she looked up at the blue
sky, over which, however, a few snowy
clouds showed like fragments detached
from the Blumlis Alp.

'eyes, yes, I know that. You think of
the weather, my girl ; I, on the contrary,
think of my legs. There are no seats to
be had here ; the place is getting overcrowded.
Come away, Marie, we will go
somewhere else." But she did not frown,
she courtesies to Monsieur Engemann with
a smile. 'adieu, monsieur, I return you
many thanks ; " then she caught at Marie s
arm and walked away with her.

CHAPTER I.

A PAIR OF GLOVES 1

CHAPTER II.

Page

UNEXPECTED IN ALL WAYS 52

CHAPTER Il

THE CAPTAIN SURRENDERS . . . .72

CHAPTER I.
Marie's new gown 93

CHAPTER II.

THE SOIREE 116

CHAPTER III.

A MORNING CHAT 147

CHAPTER IV.

THE captain's NOSEGAY 171

CHAPTER V.

RUDOLF HEARS NEWS 19

part F. Enchantment.
CHAPTER L

YOL. II. B

CHAPTER YI.

A SHOCK.

*' Something perhaps more than friendship, less than
love."  Sterne.

Monsieur Lenoir had left Madame Boileau
to take a walk, he said, but she trembled
lest some other gossiping neighbours should
see and report to Madame Carouse Monsieur
Engemann's attentions to Marie.

Marie murmured her thanks as she
passed Monsieur Engemann. She felt
vexed with Madame Boileau.

' I wish you had stayed, madame. I
wanted to stay," she said. *look, there

B 2

is one empty scat under the trees, if you
like to go back. I can stand."

Madame Boileau hurried out into the
road. " No ; no, child. Come, we must
be cfoinc: home."

What is the name of that gentleman,
madame ? " said Marie presently.
*' He has been very kind to me ; I like
him so much."

The old woman gave her a keen
glance, but Marie's eyes looked simple
and unconscious.

*' That is Monsieur Engemann, child.
He is a grand gentleman. I hope you
treated him with great respect. I will tell
you a secret  He is going to marry the
beautiful lady who sent the cutlets to-day,
Madame Carouse, of the Beauregard."

Marie felt shocked and surprised. " I
thought you said Madame Carouse was a
widow, madame."

*eyes, she is a widow, but what of
that? Why should she not marry again?
She is young and handsome, and, besides
" She paused. Then, with a

twinkle in her eyes she said, drily, 'She
Lias, child, what a young man like Monsieur
Engemann cares for more than
youth and beauty  she has plenty of
money, Marie. Ah, there's nothing like
money ! " She smiled and smacked her
colourless lips as if the thought was appetising
; really, the mention of Madame
Carouse had set her thinking: of the sweetbread
with rich brown sauce, and the cornet
d la creme, put aside for supper when
Marie should leave her to-nisht.

The girl walked on silently. The day to
her had lost some of its brightness, she was
thinking : something very pleasant had been
snatched away from her. She felt, too, the
chilling shock of a first disillusion.

This tall, noble-faced man had seemed to
Marie a hero, like some one she had read
about, but he could not really be at all what
she had thought him, if he were going to
marry a widow for the sake of her money.
She gave a little sigh as they walked on
beside the river. She had been wondering
when she should see him again.

All at once Madame Boileau noticed
her silence, and looking up at her, she saw
the flush that made the girl's pale cheeks
glow like a China rose under the long
lashes that almost touched them. The old
woman thought that perhaps Marie had
got some vain ideas into her head.

eyes, yes, little girl," she said, "I
should have gone after you, if I did not
know all about Monsieur Enoemann."

"As if she could have made her way
through the thron[ ! " thought Marie.

I should not have let you go away with

a stranger, but I have known Monsieur
Engemann for some months. Oh yes,
I know him well, he is quite a grand
gentleman, he deserves his good luck."

'Ah!" Marie said.

They were following the path beside the
river, under the tall straight poplars that
fringe the foot of the high green bank on
which stand the houses of Berne. Marie
looked about her, and tried to admire what
she saw, but it seemed dull and flat to walk
here alone with Madame Boileau. It had
been so amusing while she was with
Monsieur Engemann in that merry chattering
crowd by the bear-pit ; the girl
thought it would be better to So back
into the town and stare into the shop
windows than to saunter on here alone
with her old cousin ; her spirits had got into
dancing time, this sudden lull irritated her.
Her holiday had made Marie discontented.

After a while they came to a flight of
stone steps in the side of the steep green
bank. Madame Boileau gasped before
she reached the top of these steps and
clung heavily to Marie's arm.

'Ah, mon Dieu ! my legs ache, so does
my back. I do a great deal for you,
Marie ; but then I never shrink from a
duty."

'*I am very much obliged to you,
madame," the girl said; we can sit down
here, and you can rest."

**No, no, never mind; I am tired, but
we have still far to go."

Madame Boileau did not intend to
take Marie past the Hotel Beauregard ; so
instead of making for the main thoroughfare,
she kept in back streets, and went
even a little out of her way, till finally
they emerged under the arcades beside the
Kafir Thurn.

Marie did not at first see how near they
Averse to the '' Eed Glove." She looked round
Tier, and backed against some one who was
coming up the street.

"A thousand pardons, mademoiselle."
And there was Captain Loigerot's bald
crown shining as he bowed to her. '* Good-day
to you, ladies. Aha, Madame Boileau !
You have been showing mademoiselle the
beauties of Berne. That is right." He
rolled from one leg to the other. He was
thoroughly pleased by the sight of Marie,
and he was glad to find that his landlady
had been so considerate to her cousin.
*' Mademoiselle will tell me what she has
seen, I hope. Permit me, madame"  and
lie placed himself between the two ladies 
*' to have the honour of walking with you.
You have, perhaps, been to the Schanzli,
and you have been looking at the
mountains, eh ? "

*ewe have been to see the bears, monsieur'
Marie said.

She liked the captain, but she felt inclined
to laugh at his round, good-tempered
face, which looked always the same.

Aha ! you have seen the bears. That
is right ; they are clever, droll beasts. And
did you like the bears, mademoiselle ? "
He looked up at her admiringly.

**No, monsieur. I don't like them, they
are so ugly and they look cruel. I was
afraid of them."

The captain smiled and drew up his head.
' I wish I had been there. Mademoiselle
should not have been afraid if I had been
there  I would have given mademoiselle
courage." Then he turned to Madame Boileau.
"Did you meet Engemann at the
bear-pit ? He was going, for he asked me
to accompany him there."

Madame Boileau hesitated, but she felt

that Marie was looking at lier across the
-captain. She was obliged to speak truly.

Yes, we saw him there," she said.

The captain turned quickly to Marie ;
he felt a little sorry that he had refused
-Engemann's invitation. " I greatly wish
I had been of the party, mademoiselle.
You would not have been afraid if I had
been with you."

Thank you, monsieur, you are very
kind." This good-natured old man, as
Marie considered him, seemed quite an
intimate acquaintance since her meeting
with the tall young Swiss. " And Monsieur
Engemann was very kind too ; he
made way for me to get to the front, so
that I might see the bears, and he stood
by me and told me not to be afraid."

"Come, come, child," said Madame
Boileau ; " what can you be thinking of
to keep the captain from his walk listening

to your chatter ? Here we are at the door.
I pray you, monsieur, to excuse us for so
detaining you. I am ashamed to think of it."

The captain had been looking grave
since Marie spoke of Engemann, but at this
she rallied into a broad smile.

Not at all, madame ; I am delighted to
'have met you. Will you not walk a little
longer with me ? "

Monsieur will excuse us ; wee arc very
-tired."

I am sorry. Good evening then,
madame. Mademoiselle, I have the honour
to say farewell  to our next meeting,
madame and mademoiselle."

Madame Boileau waited till his sturdy
legs had carried the captain some way
up the street. Then she shook her head
-angrily at Marie. " Mischievous little
chatterton," she said harshly, 'you have
done harm that you cannot undo."

IN A Mirror.

"Barbers are either mad or garrulous."  Spanish
Proverb.

Captain Loigerot walked on ; he blinked
and winked his eyes, he chuckled as he-moved
in his rolling walk from one side
of the pavement to the other. What
mischief he had it in his power to make
between the widow and this lofty young
fellow, who seemed so careless about his.
conquest !

I cannot make him out," the stout
man thought. 'Why is he so backward
with the widow ? Is he cold or is he afraid

to propose to her, or is it after all the money
question ? In some ways it might help to-bring
things to an upshot if I told tales
about this flirtation with Mademoiselle
Marie. But no ; I prefer a quiet life, and
Engemann would never forgive me. Nos
I will not blab if I can help it."

At dinner-time Engemann was silent ;
but as he went downstairs he fell into
talk with ]monsieur Eiesen, who always-dined
at the Beauregard on a Sunday.
They were in full talk when they reached
the foot of the stairs, and they passed
out into the street together.

But the captain lingered behind them.
He felt unusually chatty, and as Engemann
had deserted him, he thought he would go
round to Madame Carouse's window, and
have a chat : it would be pleasant to get her
all to himself. He coughed, as a warning
of his approach, and then glancing in, he

saw her sitting on her sofa, with a look of
weariness on her beautiful face.

Good evening, madame," he said
*' Have you been out this bright day ? "

She shook her head. *' No ; I was not
inclined to go, monsieur'

The captain's shyness deserted him ; it
seemed to him that, beauty though she
was, she was, after all, a lonely young
woman in want of advice, and he felt like a.
father to her. He actually went in beyond
the threshold and looked her full in the
face. '* My dear lady, pardon me," he said,
'* but how is it that I never see you enjoying
yourself abroad ? It cheers the spirits
to take exercise and get the air."

Madame Carouse gave a languid smile.
I have so few friends to go out with,
monsieur; and it is dull to be alone in a
crowd."

"Pardon me, madame, you never need

want an escort ; I am sure that Engemann "
she raised her head proudly, and he went
on in a hurry  '* or I  should only be too-happy
to be permitted to accompany you.
Believe me, madame," he expanded his
chest, "recreation is as necessary as food
is, and air and sunshine are as necessary
as recreation. Why, even old Madame
Boileau has taken holiday to-day."

Indeed ! " Madame Carouse spoke
languidly, she could hardly suppress a
yawn. She was mortified by Engemann's
avoidance of her to-day, and she wanted
her visitor to understand that his presence
was undesired. " She took her little cousin
out, I suppose ? " she said.

Yes, she has been with her cousin ta
the bear-pit "

Loigerot stopped abruptly ; it seemed to-him
that he had gone too near the subject
of Engemann. But he would not say anymore,

as lie might be led on to blab, and lie
repeated to himself that he was resolved not
to blab. And yet the longer he thought of
it, the more unnecessary it seemed to him
that Engemann should have paid attention
in public to a young girl like Marie, when
he must surely be on the eve of proposing
for Madame Carouse  if, indeed, he was
not already her accepted lover ; for the
captain fancied sometimes that the young
fellow's indifference was assumed.

' Did you escort these ladies, monsieur
? " the widow asked. " Ah ! that was
Jiind of you, the true gallantry of a
soldier."

The captain rolled from one leg to the
other. He would not blab about his friend,
but he was too honest and humble-minded
to accept praise he had not earned. He
was troubled, for he could not find a way
of explaining himself, and, looking up, he

VOL. II. c

saw in the widow's fixed gaze that lie had
betrayed uneasiness.

"No, madame, it was not I  I mean I
had not the pleasure of escorting them,"
he stammered, and looked at her more
boldly, his round, red face full of alarm.

Madame Carouse returned his gaze fully ;
she already divined that something was kept
from her. " They went alone, then ? " she said.

Yes, madame, I met them after." Then
with an effort he went on : *' Mademoiselle
Marie told me she was afraid of the bears.
She is timid, but she is very attractive.
Have you seen her, madame ? She is truly
a charming girl."

 Is she ? "

Madame spoke dryly, so unpleasantly
indeed that Loigerot felt the only thug
left for him was to wish her good evening,
and to escape. It seemed to him as if the
floor was sinner under his feet as he

stammered out his farewell, and he hardly
knew how he reached the street.

'amon Dieu, Achille, what have you done?
she suspects something. You should mind
your own business." He took out his handkerchief
and wiped his perspiring face.
'This is what comes of mixing one's self
up in the affairs of others. Heavens ! I
am becoming a gossip like Madame Eiesen,
Ah, ma foi, that shall never be said of me.
I believe the widow suspects about that
meeting this afternoon ; and a woman who
suspects is the devil for finding out. What
do I know ? She is, perhaps, capable of
making old Boileau tell her the truth ;
sand if she sees Marie after that, it will be
all up with Engemann. Great Heavens !
I do not envy him. I am convinced that
our beautiful widow has a temper. I
should like to know if it was always plain
sailing between her and Carouse  poor

c 2

old fellow ! Ciel ! women arc a great
puzzle. They make life uneasy."

The captain went home that evening
very crestfallen. Even the walk he had
taken to smooth his ruffled spirits had
proved a failure. He had a consciousness
that things where going wrong, and that he
was to blame. But for all that, when he
had smoked his last cigar he went to bed,
and slept so soundly that Rudolf Engemann,
who slept overhead, had a fearful dream, in
which an avalanche came sweeping down
on him as he tried to climb the Jungfrau ;
he roused up in alarm to find that the
noise that had so disturbed him was created
by the snoring of Captain Loigerot.

Madame Carouse was less fortunate.
She did not snore, but her sleep was
harassed by sad, tormenting dreams. Something
in the captain's manner had made her
uneasy, full of suspicious doubts and fears.

*' Suspicious of what ? " she asked herself.
It was too absurd a feeling to confess, and
she laughed and blushed as she told herself
it was absurd to be jealous of a girl whom
she had never seen, who was perhaps a
commonplace child ; for Captain Loigerot's
taste was not likely to be refined ; besides,
she had no proof that Engemann had seen
the girl. Even if he had seen Marie, her
thoughts went on, she wronged him by this
doubt. But in spite of this wisdom she
had never found self-mastery so difficult.
The thought seemed banished  laughed at ;
it was impossible it should return ; and
then, all at once, there it was, stronger than
ever.

At last she fell asleep ; but when she rose
next morning her eyes looked heavy, and
she was paler than usual.

Sharp-eyed Lenoir, the hair-dresser, who
came to her every morning as soon as she

had drunk her chocolate, saw at a glance-that
something ailed his beautiful customer,,
and while he combed out the long strands
of fine soft hair before he plaited it intO'
the rich braids which gave her head such
an artistic finish, he pondered what could
have happened to disturb the lady. He
had had the daily care of Madame Carouse's
hair ever since she came to the Hotel
Beauregard, and he was attached to the
splendid wealth of tresses, and identified
himself with their beauty ; he patted them
softly as he divided the glossy lengths that
lay stretched out over the white wrapper
she wore ; but while he did this, he resolved
to know what Jiad happened ta
trouble Madame Carouse ; his curiosity was
his strongest passion, and he would take
any trouble to gratify it.

Was madame out yesterday ? It was
a beautiful day," he said in a fawning tone.

''No, I did not go out."

Madame Carouse always felt dreamy
while her hair was being dressed, and
she was entirely unconscious of the keen
watch Lenoir kept on her face as she
sat before a long mirror in her bedroom.

Madame had a loss ; it was indeed a
beautiful day. I never saw so many people
out in all directions, at the Enge, at the
Schanzli, at the bear-pit  there where crowds
everywhere."

Madame Carouse moved her head ever
so little, and Lenoir's attention was more
keenly roused. He too had heard much
gossip about the beautiful widow and
Monsieur Engemann. He did not approve
of the idea of such a marriage, and he
declined to believe in it ; but there was
nothing like certainty.

*' Really ? " she said ; and then, unable
to restrain herself, she asked a question

she wished unspoken as soon as it hall
passed her lips. " By-the-bye, did you
see many people you knew at the bear-pits
Monsieur Lenoir ? '

Before he answered she felt her face-flush
with shame at her own want of
dignity : she considered curiosity and
greediness such very low feelings. Happily
Lenoir was feeling at the moment for
hair-pins in the pocket of his apron.

*' Oh yes, madame "  he spoke indistinctly
; for it is not so easy to talk
intelligibly when you have put several hairpins
in your mouth  " I saw more than one
yes  more than one." His attention could
not brook disturbance, for at that instant he
was creating a new arrangement in the knot
of plaits, and for the time his art was all-absorbing.
" A little to the left, madame
if you please. Ah  " with a long-drawn
breath of admiration, "that is perfect." Just

then, as he contemplated the new arrangement
in profile, he discerned a subtle
anxious expression in the widow's beautiful
eyes which before had looked to him so-heavy.
It was enough ; he left off
admiring his handiwork; his curiosity
blazed into full flame. "Yes, madame,"
he was keeping a devouring watch now
on the glowing face in the glass, serenely
triumphant in the knowledge that it had no-means
of hiding its secret from him  " Yes
yes, I saw many friends yesterday ; friends
of mine and of yours too." He emphasised
the last words, and Madame Carouse looked
up suddenly at the glass before her. She
shrank back from what she saw, for it was-impossible
to mistake the expression of
the sharp, dark eyes in the little face
perked on one side as it gazed over her
shoulder. She gave almost a sigh of
self-congratulation as she pulled herself

together and then sat motionless as if
her face had been carved in stone. Lenoir
went on: *I saw Monsieur Kiesen and
Madame, also Madame Boileau and a
young girl  a pretty creature, a relation,,
she tells me, who has come to live with her'

**Ah, yes ! I have heard of her,"
Madame Carouse spoke very languidly.

** I saw also Monsieur Eneremann." Leo



noir felt impatient of her indifference, and
he jerked his last words out sharply, certain,
that they would arouse her interest. But
even this announcement failed to produce
any effect on the beautiful, still face.
** What a good young fellow that is ! He
is so kind and amiable." She did not even,
smile, and Lenoir felt spiteful as he went on.
*'He was taking charge of Madame Boileau's
cousin, showing her the bears. I fancy the-old
woman could not make her way through,
the crowd to the edge of the pit."

*' Probably not," said Madame Carouse
in a weary tone.

Lenoir had grown desperate. He had
begun to suspect that her indifference was
assumed. He knew very well that his
services were indispensable to her ; even
if he gave offence, he must try a last,
chance. 'sit was a new character for
Monsieur Engemann to assume. He does
not generally seem much of a lady's man.
But then one can never tell, and the girl
is so very attractive."

He had shot his last arrow, and without
result. The only change in Madame Ca-rouge's
face was that she looked bored,,
and now she put one shapely hand to her
lips to hide a yawn. Lenoir brought down
his eyebrows into a frown that made him
look spiteful. He drew the loeignoir from
madame's shoulders, folded it, and then
rolled up his apron.

I have the honour to wish madame a
good mornbg," he said stiffly.

"Good morning, thank you," said
Madame Carouse.

Lenoir was very angry, he muttered more
than one oath as he went down-stairs.

V

A PAIR OF GLOVES.

The beautiful grisette looked sometimes at the
:gloves, then sideways at the window, then at the
gloves, and then at me. I followed her example  so I
looked at the gloves, then to the window, then at the
gloves, and then at her  and so on alternately." 
Sterne.

EuDOLP ExGEMAXx had been awakened
-during the night by the supposed avalanche,
but his morning dreams must have been
pleasant, for when he opened his eyes it
seemed to him that the sunshine ought to
have streamed in at his windows, to match
the bright freshness of his sensations. He
did not trouble himself to inquire whence

the feeling came, but lie was sensible of a
new and pleasant anticipation. Life had
suddenly opened itself, at a page which
suggested other pages of keen interest beyond
it. The puzzled vexation of the past week
had fled  it seemed to be blotted out ; he
felt once more simple and self-possessed,
and he told himself that if there were time
he would stop this morning, as he came
out from breakfast, and have a few minutes'
talk with Madame Carouse before he went
to the bank.

It was hardly in pursuance of this end,
however, that he turned back from the
house door of the " Red Glove " and looked
in at the shop window.

Marie was in the shop alone. She had
evidently been dusting the counter, for a
feather brush lay on it, and she was giving
the last touches to a tasteful display of
embroidery in the farthest window.

Enoemann looked hard at the sweet,
unconscious face.

"I believe I want a pair of gloves," he
thought, and he pushed the shop door
open.

Marie went back to her place behind the
counter as the door opened. She smiled
and blushed when she saw Monsieur Eno-e-
mann bowing to her ; then she gave a
quick glance at the green-curtained window,
and she saw, with a feeling of relief, that
Madame Boileau was not yet at her post
of observation.

Engemann thought, as he looked at
Marie, she was much prettier without her
hat ; her head was so well placed, and her
hair was so bright, it seemed to be glowing
with prisoned sunshine. There was such
an indescribable atmosphere of youth and
dainty freshness about her that at once she
became part of the spring-like joy that

VOL. II. D

had awakened with him. He felt very
happy at the sight of her.

** Can 1 do anything for monsieur ? "

Marie gave him a grateful glance. She
had been thinking of his kindness to her
yesterday, recalling every word and every
look : she had forgotten his engagement to
Madame Carouse, and the mercenary views
which her cousin had attributed to him.

"Yes, if you please, mademoiselle. I
want some gloves."

What kind of gloves does monsieur
wish for ? " said Marie demurely. ** Dark
gloves or light gloves ? '

Kudolf Engemann was not ready-witted,
and he had not prepared himself for this
question. He looked into Marie's soft,
gray eyes, while he sought for an answer,
with so bewildered a gaze that she smiled.
He reddened a little.

It does not signify  any sort," he said

hurriedly ; and, indeed, this was the truth.
He was aware that he did not want gloves; he
only wanted a pretext for talking to Marie.

His answer chimed in with the girl's
gay humour ; it sounded so absurd that
she began to laugh, while she placed a box
of gloves before him. Then, meeting his
troubled eyes, she remembered Madame
Boileau's warning against laughter, and
she became grave in an instant. Somehow
the little flush that had come with her
repressed look encouraged Engemann.

I fancy that something amuses mademoiselle."
Marie bent down her head
ashamed, she was afraid she had vexed him.
Engemann affected to look round the shop.
There is nothing else," he said, as if to
himself; 'rit must be I, then, who have
caused mademoiselle so much amusement."

Marie felt compelled to raise her eyes
to the gaze so strongly fixed on hers.

D 2

I beg monsieur's pardon."

She said this so penitently, and looked
so winning in her humility, that Engemann
felt his enjoyment deepen ; it seemed as
if all kinds of possibilities lay before him
in the way of pleasant talks with this
bright girl. He*felt gay in the fresh young
sympathy that had so quickly established
itself between them ; it might have existed
for years, it was so serene. He did not
trouble himself to analyse his feelings ; he
simply enjoyed them, and felt purified and
freshened by them. Marie, too, felt her
spirits rise with a rebound, for she saw
that he was not vexed.

All this time the two young creatures
had been studying each other's eyes. Marie
looked back to the gloves ; the flush on
her face had grown deeper; her manner
was a little hurried.

** Does monsieur like these ? "  she held

up a pair of yellow-brown gloves  "are
they the right size ? "

She darted another glance toward the
green curtain ; she knew very well that
she was not fulfilling her instructions.

''Ma foi," said Engemann, *'I  I"  he
looked at his large hand, and then at
Marie  "I am not sure about my size,
they are perhaps too small."

He wanted her to measure the glove
across his knuckles ; but he did not say
so. He hoped that Marie would offer todo
this, and as the thought showed itself
in the appealing look in his blue eyes, the
girl was touched and amused. It gave her
confidence to think that she could be of
use to this tall gentleman.

"Allow me, monsieur,' she said gravely.
Her hands trembled a little, but she measured
the glove across his knuckles with
a dainty grace ; her soft, warm fingers

gave him a thrill of exquisite pleasure ;
it seemed to him that she was absolutely
fascinating ; it also seemed a pity that she
did not measure the left-hand glove too.
*' Shall I stretch them for monsieur''
*' If you please, mademoiselle."
He wished her to do anything which,
might prolong this pleasant time. He
stood looking at Marie with delight while
she was manipulating the pretty little pair
of stretchers with which Madame Bobineaii
had entrusted her.

Marie felt that he was looking at her.
She was not quite sure whether she ought
to like his admiration  she had been
taught that vanity was a sin  but she felt
notwithstanding that she did like Monsieur
Engemann to look at her ; her heart began
to beat in a most unusual fashion.

She was putting the gloves in paper
when a bright idea came to Eno-emann 

lie saw an easy way of prolonging this
delightful time.

I will have another pair of gloves,
not this kind  lighter ones, if you please."

He thought that if he chose the gloves
out of the same packet, Marie might consider
the fit certain, and he should lose
the pleasure of having them measured.
He had no use that he knew of for light
gloves, and certainly he had no superfluous
money to spend on them. But
while Marie carefully replaced the box out
of which he had made his purchase, and
took down another from the hioh shelf
behind her, it occurred to Eudolf that it
might be proper for him to wear light
gloves when he went to Thun with Madame
Carouse.

** Which colour does monsieur prefer ? "
Marie was trying to remember her lesson.

"It does not signify," said Rudolf. "1

will leave it to mademoiselle to choose-the
colour for me. She knows more about
gloves than I do." He smiled at her.

Marie laughed. " No, monsieur ; I am-very
ignorant about them, I have never
even \vorn loves. I have lived atones
Sisters, and they do not wear gloves."

'* But you will wear gloves now ? " he-said.


"Yes, perhaps, monsieur." Here she
looked a little grave, and opening two
packets she spread before him a heap
of delicate shades of colour  pink, and
primrose, and lavender.

*they are very pretty," he said ; but he
was looking at her instead of at the oves.

"Yes, monsieur, I think they are very
pretty." Marie wondered whether she-should
ever possess anything so dainty.
Here are some of a sweet colour." She
drew a pair of pale citron colour from the

heap. "I think these will do, if monsieur-will
permit me to measure them'

Engemann put out his hand only a
little way. She had looked so pretty bending
forward, and he knew she must do it
again to measure across his hand.

"Ah!" he said as she finished, "I fear-they
may be a little short. Will mademoiselle
have the goodness to measure the
fingers ? "

Marie had not practised this art, and'
she had to do it twice before she succeeded,
for at first she put the thumb tip
to his finger-tip, and vice verse. She
looked up smiling at Engemann.

*' Pardon, monsieur ; I know I am
stupid," she said ; and then she felt a
little troubled, for something in the glance:
she had met made her heart beat fast,
and her fingers had become suddenly limp
and awkward.

Engemann, too, was silent ; he was looking
fixedly at Marie ; he wished to make
her raise her eyes to his.

And in a moment more she would have
done so ; but while she stood in this disturbed,
nervous condition, there came,,
grating harshly into the soft silence that
had followed her last glance, the voice of
Madame Boileau.

*' Good morning. Monsieur Engemann
I hope you have found what you want''

Engemann felt a little foolish, and he
turned a solemn face to his landlady. It
was vexing that the pleasant time was
over.

Yes, thank you, madame ; " and then it
occurred to him that Madame Bobineau'
arrival was in a way opportune ; it had
removed from him the necessity of paying
Marie for the gloves ; this would have been
disagreeable.

"Monsieur, then, will have this pair-also?"


Marie held up the citron coloured gloves.
She, too, had looked at Madame Boileau,
and she saw that though the old woman
had smiled at the customer, she had next
minute given a reproving glance in her
direction ; she felt that she could not bear
to be scolded before her new friend. She
folded the gloves, and after putting them
in paper she placed them on madame's.
desk, and then began carefully to set in
order and put away the delicately tinted
heap which she had scattered on the
counter for Rudolf's choice.

Monsieur Engemann went to the desk
and paid madame for his purchase; he felt
suddenly sobered and brought back into-ordinary
workaday life. He wished Madame
Boileau good morning ; then he came back.
to the counter.

"Good morning, Mademoiselle Marie""
lie said. *I thank you for your kindness."
He wished to shake hands with
her, but he felt that this would be unusuaL

The old woman came forward and opened
the shop-door. She stood looking down
the street after her lodger. She was very
angry, and yet it was difficult to find a
scapegoat to bear her wrath. Marie had
succeeded in selling two pairs of gloves
a man who had rarely bought anything
in the shop ; clearly it would be both unjust
and impolitic to scold Marie, and yet
her wrath burned fiercely against Monsieur
Engemann.

"That young man will be late at the
bank ; he has not yet breakfasted," she-muttered.
" Such a time of day to choose
for buying gloves!" (young fool," she-said
to herself, " wasting his money and
turning that little chit's head by his notice.

I'll be bound") *' You must not expect
every customer to thank you, Marie," she
said sharply. " Monsieur Engemann is a
grand gentleman, but he is young, and,
besides, he is not much in the habit of
buying gloves."

Almost as she spoke, Madame Boileau
felt that she had made an unwise
admission. She looked at Marie, and she
-saw that she had begun to smile, for Marie
had expected a lecture ; she had grown
accustomed to undeserved scolding; it
seemed to her, indeed, that each time she
had spoken to a gentleman she had evoked
a storm, and now, relieved at being let off
so easily, she laughed and clapped her
hands gaily.

Oh, I am so glad," she said  " so glad
he bought them of me. I like him so
much  oh, so very much. I hope he will
come again."

Chut ! nonsense ! Like him, indeed !
How often, then, must I ask you, child,
to have a little common-sense ? You are
not wanted to like the customers. Do
you suppose that customers think about
you ? Do you think a gentleman like
Monsieur Enoemann notices the difference
between one shop-girl and another ? Perhaps
you think he likes you ? "

Till to-day Marie had tried to remember
the Superior's advice, and although she
bad inwardly rebelled, she had taken
Madame Boileau's scolding in silence ;
but to-day, at the bitter, sneering tone,
her tongue seemed to move without her
guidance.

I am sure he does," she said.

Madame Boileau looked at her, but
Marie met her angry eyes fearlessly ; a
bright spot of red burned on the girl's cheeks
and there was a confidence in her manner

that was almost triumphant. She felt
that she was no loDger friendless in Berne,
Monsieur Engemann liked her, she was
sure of it.

Madame Boileau only understood one
side of human nature  its weakness and its
double motives  and she at once assumed
that harm lurked in the girl's frank courage.

"Upon my word, you make me
ashamed of you," she threw her head
back and surveyed Marie from head to
foot, " you are as vain as you are silly,
and I am afraid you are not fit to stand
behind a counter ; I fear you stare
at gentlemen, Marie, and try to make
them look at you. I wonder what the
Sisters would think of you." Then seeing*
that the girl still smiled, "You little fool.
Bah ! Do you suppose men are what they
seem ? " she said in a fury. " Do you think
they mean what they say ? Why, at this

very moment, if lie thinks of you at all,
Monsieur Engemann is turning you into
ridicule with his fellow-clerks ; or, if he
ventures to mention such a subject to her,
he is perhaps telling Madame Carouse
what a vain little puss I am plagued with
as shop-girl."

Marie stood leaning against the counter.
As she listened she grew rosy, the rich
colour even glowed beneath her fair hair;
but when the old woman spoke of Madame
Carouse, scorching, angry tears fell sparkling
on her hot face.

I do not believe it ; Monsieur Engemann
would not do such unkind things ; he is not
double-faced. He is good  I am sure he is ;
he would not do such false, mean things."
And then, overmastered by the sudden
fear the old woman's words had called
up, she flung her arms on the counter, and
burying her face in them she sobbed loudly.

Madame Boileau was alarmed, she had
relieved her temper, and now her sense
of propriety came to Marie's help.

Great heavens, child 1 How can you be
so violent ? Nicely the Sisters have trained
you, I must say. Hold your tongue, I tell
you. Have done, will you ? A customer
will come in." But the sobs went on vehemently.
" There, there, child, I did not say
it was certain Monsieur Engemann would
laugh at you ; I said perhaps ; for, as you
say, he is good and kind. I only mean
to warn you, Marie, to show you to what

your vanity may expose you, if you

Come, come ; " she patted the girl's shoulder.
* Some one will arrive and find you
sobbing. Come, come, child; if you must
cry, go into my room, and I will mind
the shop till you come to your senses."

Marie seemed to feel the force of this
appeal. She tried to check her sobs, and

VOL. II. B

lifting up her swollen, tear-stained face,,
she went slowly into the little room, and
shut the green-curtained door behind her.
Then she dropped into Madame Boileau's
easy-chair, and hid her shame-stricken face.
Her sobs had ceased ; she was alarmed at
the tumult which had broken out in her.

' What would the Sisters say to me ?
They would not know their little Marie,
they would not believe I could be so
wicked and passionate, and yet it is
true''

She got up and went to the little
dingy mirror at which Madame Boileau
smoothed her hair before she went into
the shop. Marie gazed mournfully at her
own reflection. Certainly she did not
look like the Marie who had just now
laughed so merrily ; her eyes were glazed
with tears, and her lips where swelled and
pouting.

'eyes, I am changed. I look cross and
horrid, and if I stay here I shall grow
wicked. . I cannot like Madame Bobi-
neaii, there is no use in trying ; directly I
begin to, she says something cruel, and
makes me feel stuns all over and oh !
I do hate Madame Carouse  What would
the dear Mother say if I told her that?
But I will go back and tell her everything.
When I am once more at St.
Esprit, I shall soon forget that I ever
came to Berne."

E 2

UNEXPECTED IN ALL WAYS.

Love is merely a madness, and, I tell you, deserves
as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do." 
Shakespeare.

Dinner was just over at the ' Red Glove ; "
it had been a very silent meal, for
Marie still felt sad and ashamed of her
vehemence. She had gone back to her
place behind the counter; and Madame
Boileau had returned to the little room
behind the shop. After pulling the curtain
across her spy-window and bolting
the door, she had taken from a little
cupboard the remains of her last night's.

supper  a cornucopia of almond pastry
sued with whipped cream ; while she
swallowed it, she sat thinking over what
shad happened.

The old woman had had a sleepless night,
pondering what might come of the unlucky
meeting with Monsieur Engemann, and of
Marie's indiscreet revelations to Captain
Loigerot. And then after breakfast when
she came into the shop, she had actually
found Marie and Monsieur Engemann looking
for all the world like a pair of lovers 
she thought the young man looked the
most conscious of the two. And while
she was still trembling with the dread
that this folly might reach the ears of
Madame Carouse, Marie had chosen to
behave in this shameful manner  most
shameful, most ungrateful ! She had not
by any means forgiven Marie, and she
Lad scarcely spoken to her; now, as she

greedily crammed the cream into her
toothless mouth, she wondered if it would
be the last dainty she should receive
from Madame Carouse.

As she finished the last mouthful a
loud knock at the street door made her
start and almost choke. She got up
spluttering and coughing. A knock was
most unusual ; her lodgers knew that
they had only to turn the door-handle
to let themselves in, and they never had
visitors ; their letters and parcels were
delivered in the shop, and this knock
was at the private door of the house ;
besides, parcels would not come with an
authoritative knock like the one just given.

By this time Madame Boileau had
reached the door, and turning the handle,
she opened it.

She shrank back and tottered, she
literally shook with fear, and leaned

against the wall for support at sight of
the vision before her.

It was Madame Carouse, pale and grave,
but looking beautiful as ever, in a charming
little bonnet ; she was, as usual,
dressed in black, a rich lace scarf
-carelessly draped round her graceful
shoulders.

Madame Carouse walked forward into

o

the dark entrance without waiting to be
invited to enter ; her beauty and the
costly silk and lace about her, made
an incongruous contrast with the mean
surroundings. It was as if a graceful
swan were to sail proudly along some
muddy ditch by the road side.

But Madame Boileau's wits quickly
came back to her. She stood upright
sand then courtesies.

This is indeed an honour, madame'
she said.

Madame Carouse had sailed up the passage
without speaking ; the old woman
hurried after her guest, and pushed wide
open the door of her little sitting-room.

*' Mon Dieu ! " she said to herself,
what a mercy that I had eaten up the
pastry ! "

There was the empty plate on the table,
but the room was perfectly neat.

Ah ! madame, this condescension is
adorable." Boileau drew forward her one
easy-chair. '* If I had only known I was
to have the pleasure of this visit, I would
have been better prepared."

She kept her keen eyes fixed on her
visitor, and she saw that although Madame
Carouse smiled, there was a constraint
in her manner that the old glover
was not accustomed to in her beautiful
benefactress.

'this visit is not to you, Madame

IBobineau ; I come to see your little cousin.
-I am interested in Yhat I hear about
her' Her lip cursed with scorn at the
-alarm that showed for an instant in the
sold woman's face. '* Shall we go into
the shop, or will mademoiselle come tome
here ? " she said politely. ' I wish
to see her'*

Madame Boileau put up her hand in
"deprecation.

I will go and fetch her," she said ;
*she shall come directly if she is not
serving, madame."

And if she is, you can go and take
lier place," the beautiful woman said.

She looked round the mean room with
repugnance rather than with pity. She
had only called once before on Madame
Boileau, and then she had seen her in
the shop. The pinched, bare aspect of
the meagre room vexed her ; it took her

back to the time when she too and her
mother lived in one poor room ; when they
were alarmed at the rare advent of a
visitor, and suffered dire shame afterwards
at having been seen in their shabby-gowns.
Carouse's first visit was strongly
present to her mind  she shuddered.

But in a moment or so Madame Carouse
ambient her brows and smiled at her own
mental disturbance. She wondered  as if
she were some one else  why this fresh idea
should have dawned on the trouble she had
been strusorlinor with ever since last nisht 
a trouble which for a brief space in morning
light she had told herself was a folly ; and
then had come Lenoir's story confirming
the warning her fears had given. While
she had sat statue-like, listening to the
barber's gossip before her glass, Madame
C-irouge had told herself that the only way
to end such a folly was to uproot it.

She did not doubt Kudolf Engemann.
It was an insult to him to suppose his love
for her so light that a chance meeting with
another woman, or rather a mere child,
could turn it away from her. While Captain
Loigerot had spoken of Marie, an idea
had come to her ; now it returned, and
she resolved, if possible, to act upon it.

' If possible ! "  she smiled at herself 
'They are all much the same. Do not I
know what young girls are ? Of course
they want liberty and ease, pleasure above
11, as much pleasure as money can give
them ; though a girl who has been brought
sip in a convent will have fewer desires than
I had, she will have youthful cravings ;
she will consider me a benefactress if I
marry her to our captain."

Still, the expression on her face was not
that of perfect content as she sat looking
at the glass door. It was, however, the

'tatler door that opened, and Madame
-Bobineau came in, followed by Marie.

The girl was impressed at first sight by
the grand-looking lady sitting opposite her.
Madame Carouse did not rise, she bent her
head slightly in acknowledgment of the
girl's deferential bow, and then they looked
at one another.

There was a striking contrast between
them. Marie's cream white skin, with a
faint tinge of pink stealing into her cheeks,
was like a pale Malmaison rose, while the
rich colour that spread over Madame
Carouse's golden complexion at sight of
the girl's beauty was like the flame tint
of a pomegranate blossom : she felt as if
some one had struck her, so utterly unprepared
was she for Marie's remarkable
appearance ; she had expected at best mere
'Childish prettiness.

There was no contrast in the feelings of

the girl and the woman  each felt an instinctive
dislike to the other. It manifested,
itself, however, in different ways. Marie
felt oppressed and ill at ease. She hung
her head and became self-conscious, almost
awkward, standing there under the fixed
gaze of those brilliant eyes ; she longed too
back to the shop.

Madame Carouse forced a smile, and
strove to be extra gracious in manner.

*' I hope you like Berne, mademoiselle,
and that you wish to remain here. It is a
charming; town, is it not ? "

Her courteous yet patronising tone made
Marie feel very far off indeed from her
questioner.

Yes, madame, it is a very beautiful
town."

Madame Carouse smiled assail. She saw
that Marie was not fascinated by her, and
yet she felt that if she wished to influence

lier it was necessary to be friendly with the
girl.

'dear Madame Boileau," she said
we must all try to make Berne as pleasant
as possible to your cousin. Will you bring
her to see me tomorrow evening ?  I shall
have only a few friends. I hope mademoiselle
will give me the pleasure of including
her among them."

It was so pleasantly said in that mellow
voice that Marie softened.

"Thank you, madame, you are very kind:"
she tried to look pleased. Then she remembered
that she had only the brown linen gown
she had worn yesterday. She looked hopelessly
at Madame Boileau ; the old woman
was staring inquisitively at Madame
Carouse ; she had no belief in this sudden
kindness to Marie ; she felt that there
was some hidden purpose in it. She was
puzzled and taken by surprise ; but if

the widow had asked her just then to
go lip in a balloon, she would have consented.


' Madame is indeed kind  kindness itself.
You had better go back to the shop, child'*
she said to Marie. " I know madame will
excuse you, it is a busy time of day."

Madame Carouse held out her hand.
Then I will say au revoir, mademoiselle,.
till tomorrow. We will say eight o'clock,,
if you please."

Marie put her cold hand into the widow's
exquisitely-gloved one, and she disappeared
with a sioh of relief through the curtained
entrance into the shop.

Madame Boileau was bursting with
curiosity to know what her visitor thought
of Marie. Madame Carouse had left off
smiling ; her beautiful eyes were terribly
angry as they looked straight at the old
woman. Madame Boileau actually

crouched under this mute rebuke, and sat
huddled in her chair.

'you wished to give me a surprise, I suppose,
you deceitful woman  a child indeed t
You must know as well as I, Madame-boileau,
that the young woman is very
handsome  that she is not fit to be in such
shop as yours is for a day. What can
you be thinking of ? What did you meanly
telling me she was only passable ? "

Her voice was no longer mellow ; it
struck sharp and ringing on the reddened
ears of her companion. The old woman
pressed her dark, skinny hands together.

'what can I do?" she said abjectly.
What can a poor old woman like me do ?
How can I help the child's looks ? If
madame will only have the goodness to
advise."

I did advise you  I told you what I
would do, and, instead of keeping the girl

quiet till I had found a husband for her,
you took her that very day to a public
place, and allowed her to walk about with
a young man. Madame Boileau, you are
not fit to guide a young girl. You must
have lost your senses."

It was surprising to see how the
widow's beautiful face cleared when she
had poured out her wrath in this pelting
fashion ; she had somewhat got rid of, in
words, the vexation which oppressed her.
She thought that the old woman deserved
to suffer for her deceit and ingratitude.
Madame Boileau pulled out a snuffy
pocket-handkerchief, and hid her frightened
face.

'' Oh, is it not too hard," she whined,
that gossips should tell tales, and try to
rob a poor old woman of one of the few
friends she possesses ? Indeed, madame " 
she gave a sob  *'I thought I was doing

VOL. II. F

a Christian duty in giving the child amusement.
I only took her out for a walk, and to
see the bears, and when we met Monsieur
Engemann I turned away, I pretended not to
see him, and tried to avoid him. How could
he or 1 help it, madame, when that little forward
chit looked up at him and asked him to
put her in front, that she might see better'*

Madame Carouse sat brooding, her eyes
fixed on the ground, while the old woman
kept dabbing her face with her handkerchief.

*' If she is so forward," she said at last,
very gravely, *' I cannot help her. I am afraid
it will not do to propose her to Captain
Loigerot. A man of his years will require
very circumspect behaviour in his wife."

*' Captain Loigerot ! Do you consider
him a man likely to marry, my dear lady ?
Ah ! what a charming bonnet you have onto
be sure ! No need to ask if it comes
from Paris,"

But Madame Caroiige would not unbend
nor be turned from her purpose. Her voice
continued to have a dry, sarcastic tone in
it to which her listener was unaccustomed.

Captain Loigerot has asked me to find
him a wife, and he is certain to accept
any person I propose to him. Of course,

if you have other plans for the girl "

She stopped, rose from her seat, and looked
at the old woman.

Madame Boileau's face did not show
the acquiescence she expected. The old
glover hesitated ; she was not sure that she
was willing that Captain Loigerot should
marry Marie. His money paid the rent of
her house, and he was always satisfied with
her management. If he took Marie away, she
should lose him as a lodger, and she should
have to pay a shop-girl in Marie's place.
On the other hand, she should not have to
make a provision for Marie. This last con

2

iteration had, however, little weight with
her. Madame Boileau could no more help
hoarding than she could help breathing,
and Marie was already provided for by the
savings she had accumulated. Of necessity
she must leave those savings behind her, but
she would not yield up a centime of them
towards Marie's marriage portion ; the very
thought of doing so made her hair rise on
her forehead. But she dared not offend the
widow. She rose when Madame Carouse did.

'* Did I not say I would follow your
advice, my dear, kind friend ? If you will
only have the goodness to sit down again,
I will tell you what I think. I am only a
poor, stupid old woman, and such a grand
proposal as this has taken my wits away."
She looked caressingly at her friend, but
Madame Carouse remained standing.

No, you are not stupid, Madame
Boileau, and you must see the advantage

of such a marriage for Marie. Listen,"
she went on impatiently. ' The captain
tells me he has a house and two corn-fields,
and several vineyards, and he has money
enough to live on besides these sources of
income. What more can you want in a
husband for this girl ? "

Madame Boileau's eyes glittered, and
she licked her lips in a stealthy fashion,
and then she took a huge pinch of snufF.

"He is some years too old for Marie,
is he not, madame ? " she said dryly. She
meant to yield, but she wanted to tease
the haughty woman for the way in which
she was treating her.

*' Great heavens ! "  Madame Carouse
tapped the floor impatiently with her foot 
*' if people suit in other ways, what can age
signify ? An old husband often makes a girl
happier than a young one does ; he is more
easily satisfied ; besides, the captain is not

old. But I forgot myself"  she looked
fixedly at Madame Boileau's shifting, bead-like
eyes  '' if the girl is forward I cannot
advise Captain Loigerot to marry her. I
promised to find a discreet wife for him.
I am sorry, for indeed I felt I was doing
you a good turn."

Madame Boileau shook her hands in
affected despair. " You mistook me,
madame," she said ; ''I only meant that
the girl should have waited her turn. I must
be just to her, she is not bold. Did I not
tell you she refused to measure those gentlemen
for the size of their gloves ? No,
no ; that cannot be brought against her.
My fear is that a gentleman in the position
of Captain Loigerot will require a marriage
portion ; and how can a poor old womanlike
me find one ? "

The widow stood thinking ; her impatient
look had faded into melancholy. *' I will

-see about that' she said ; ' I will talk
to the captain this evening, and propose
the matter to him. I do not think he
will insist on a marriage portion. If I
arrange matters I can then present him
formally to you and to Mademoiselle Marie
tomorrow evening. You had better not
speak to the girl beforehand ; let things
happen naturally ; let the captain plead
for himself." She smiled faintly. *' Now
I must wish you good-day."

Yes, dear madame  I offer you many
thanks."

The widow affected not to see Madame
Boileau's offered hand. With a graceful
nod she gathered her lace scarf round
her, and walked down the dingy passage
into the arcaded street.

That is settled," she said as she went
-along, and her beautiful face looked serene
again.

THE CAPTAIN SURRENDERS.

"I am in love, Corporal," quoth my Uncle Toby.
In love ! " said the Corporal. " Your honour was
very well the day before yesterday."

 

I wish I may manage it right," said my Uncle
Toby j " but I declare I had rather march up to the
edge of a trench."

*'A woman is quite a different thing," said the
Corporal.

I suppose sOj" quoth my Uncle Toby.

Sterne.

Captain Loigerot had felt dull when he
awoke that morning. He had certainly
slept soundly ; but as he opened his eyes
he was aware that all was not riofht
with him ; there was a weight on his

spirits, and lie soon became conscious that
it was caused by the remembrance of his
indiscreet words last night.

*why in Heaven's name did I go and
chatter to Madame Carouse ? I might
have known that it is never safe to venture
too near the edge of anything. See,
friend Achille, what foolhardiness has led
you into. That widow's eyes blazed up
like a torch, and then I knew that I
looked like a fool  I who all these years
have kept clear of any quarrel with a woman.
Well, I have done it now. Who knows
what she may not say to Engemann ? I'll
swear she made a guess at the truth. A
woman like that is the very devil."

The captain went every morning to be
shaved by Monsieur Lenoir; usually he
enjoyed the bright talk of the little birdlike
hair-dresser, who had a way of hopping
from one subject to another in a brisk and

airy manner that carried out the likeness to
a tomtit that his face suggested. But today
Lenoir's talk, instead of weighing so
lightly that Loigerot had forgotten it by the
time he had finished his cigar, hung upon
his listener like a bag of heavy stones which
the captain was forced to carry away with
him, for Lenoir went on repeating the
substance of his morning interview with
Madame Carouse ; and as he still felt very
angry at the baulk she had administered to
his curiosity, the little hair-dresser described
her evident vexation with much exasperation,
and declared that there was no hope
that she would forgive Kudolf Engemann's
flirtation with Marie Peyrolles.

Serve him right, too. I always said
that he had no serious intentions ; he is
too young, and  and uninformed to be the
husband of such a woman. She would be
completely thrown away on him."

And the captain had answered, sighing :
** Yes, yes ; there is no one in Berne who
is worthy of her ; but I hope she will
forgive Eag-emann."

Lenoir stopped in the act of stropping
the razor with which he had been shaving
the captain's chin.

'* Ma foi, monsieur "  he drew up his
little body  " Madame Carouse need not
have gone far to find a suitable husband
if she really wants one ; for my part I do
not believe she had any real attachment
to this silent young giant. Women are
sometimes weak enough to admire carcase "
  he put his head on one side and stuck
out his peaked chin.  *' What else, I ask
you, could have persuaded a comely womanlike
Madame Kiesen, with a head of gray
hair such as you seldom see  what could
have persuaded her to take up with that
raw-boned, cadaverous, bald-headed "

He caiiolit sicilia of Loiojerot's astonished
face, and checked himself. *' You understand,
monsieur, I speak of the outside
qualities only. Monsieur Risen is my
very good friend and customer  so far, at
least, as a man can be called a customer
who wears a mass of gray, uneven stubble
which he calls a beard." He shrugged his
shoulders and released his patient.

Good-day, monsieur." This was in
answer to the captain's farewell.

Loigerot wanted to get away from the
splenetic hair-dresser ; he was accustomed
to consider Lenoir as gay as a butterfly,
but to-day he had found him as stinging
was a wasp.

His digestion must be out of order ;
there is perhaps something amiss with the
weather," the kind man said, " and it disturbs
Lenoir as it has disturbed me. I
shall walk off these fancies."

After breakfast the captain took a

long walk out of the town, his usual
panacea when anything had gone amiss
with him, and he came back much more
cheerful than when he had started. He
kept away from Berne as long as he
could ; he did not want to see Kudolf, or
Madame Boileau, or even Marie until he
had dined ; any one of the three would
remind him of the vexation that might
still be reserved for him in the shape of a
quarrel between the widow and her young
admirer. He felt annoyed too ; Rudolf must
have shown unnecessary attention to Marie,
for it appeared that Lenoir had watched the
young couple, and he had dwelt at length to
the captain on the animated nature of their
conversation.

Still, that might not have been 's
fault," the good-natured captain
thought. " Marie, I believe, is always
animated. Ill be bound, when she gets
at her ease, she can be as frisky as a

young lamb  and young people will talk
to one another."

This last was a pleasant reflection, and
it helped to keep up his spirits through the
dinner at the Beauregard till the end of the
first course.

As Moritz handed him a dish of stewed
peaches, he whispered that madame wished
to have the pleasure of a few minutes' talk
when monsieur should be quite disengaged.
Loigerot shivered ; he at once lost his appetite,
his indiscretion came back vividly,
and he felt sure he was going to be mixed
up in the quarrel.

'* Women are the devil," he said again ;
*sand I certainly knew that long ago. I
am in for it." He left the table before the
others, and hurried down-stairs.

Madame Carouse received him very graciously.
Then, after a few words, "Monsieur,"
she said, with the rare, sweet smile

which so fascinated Monsieur Ensfemann,
' some time ago you honoured me with a
confidence. You said if I could find you a
suitable wife, you would like to marry."

'eyes, madame, I said something; about
it ; " but though Loigerot felt relieved and
spoke politely, there was no alacrity in his
tone. Since he had seen Marie, the idea of
the *' suitable" wife had lost its interest for
him, had become a something for which he
could wait another year or so. It would be-much
pleasant, meanwhile, to walk and
talk with this bright girl, who had at
present eclipsed, in his estimation, the
prettiest nursemaid on the Munster Plats.

Madame Carouse saw that he was in*
different, but she had not time to indulge
in questioning. She went on calmly :

I have not forgotten your wish, monsieur,
though it is possible I may have
seemed to you slow and neglectful."

Ah, madame

Pardon me," the widow went on : "I
rejoice to tell you I have found some one
to whom, I think, only one objection can be
made : she has no marriage portion."

The captain was a liberal soul ; he had
not expected money with a wife ; but ashe
had changed his mind about marriage,
this objection seemed to offer him deliverance
from the widow's proposal.

Well, madame, I am not, I believe,
mercenary "  he cleared his throat  '' but
I fancy it is desirable that the lady should
not be without a portion. I have a little
property, it is true, and I hope by economy
to increase its value ; but  aw  on the
other hand, I might die soon after marriage,
and then a lady  aw  who has been
used to her comforts, and so on, would be
in a better position if she had also some
money of her own, and  and "  puffing out

his cheeks  " in short, pardon me, but she
might have more than herself to provide
for."

Madame Carouse felt mischievous ; she
had studied her companion carefully during
all these months, and she understood his
weak points.

"It is true, monsieur ; you are wiser
than I am. I fear I must try again.
Perhaps I was altogether wrong in my
choice. If you had passed over the want
of a marriage portion, you might have objected
to my choice on the score of age.
You desired, I think, a lady about thirty-five
; now I fear the lady I am thinking of
would not fit that age by seventeen or
eighteen years."

Loiserot reddened and stuffed both
hands into his pockets, till he looked more
like a ball than ever.

Madame," he bowed, " but  but  " he

VOL. II. G

stammered with indignation, "I  I named
that age because it is not likely that a
younger woman would bring herself to 
to take me as a husband, but it is the
limit, the extreme limit ; I will not marry
an old woman, madame. Ciel ! "  his
little eyes were fierce as he stared at the
widow  ' the wife you do me the honour
to suggest to me must be over fifty."

He stopped  his voice had been thick
with anger, and now that he had blustered
it out, he felt conscious that this was not
quite the way in which he ought to have
spoken to Madame Carouse. He looked
at her shamefacedly out of the corner of
his eyes.

Though her eyes sparkled, the widow did
not seem affronted ; she was pressing her
handkerchief against her lips ; but she took
it away, and answered pleasantly :

** Ah, monsieur, you wrong me. How

would it be possible that I should fall
into such a nervous mistake as that ? Yoic
married to an old woman 1 Mon Dieu !
that would be a catastrophe. No, no ; the
difference of age to which I fear you may object
is the other way. The young girl I am
thinking of does not come up to your standard,
she is but seventeen or eighteen ; but
then, as she has no money you say she would
not suit. But it is no matter ; it was a silly
fancy of mine, I had the idea that she would
please you ; you must pardon me. I am
tender-hearted sometimes, and I only thought
you would make the poor child so much happier
than  than Madame Boileau does."

The widow had been attentively watching
the captain's face, and the change in it as
she ended was so startling that once more
she hastily pressed her handkerchief to
her lips to hide a smile. His expression
had changed from anger to perplexity, a

G 2

sort of shamefaced wonder ; but as she
finished, a sudden look of delight broadened
his face, his eyes closed till they were mere
slits, and every hair of his moustache and
imperial quivered.

I beg a thousand pardons, madame. Is
it  is it possible that you can be speaking
of Mademoiselle Marie ? ' he stuttered
with eager haste to get his words out.
** But no ; I cannot flatter myself that
one so young, so beautiful "

The look of intense scorn on Madame
Carouse's face stopped him.

"Monsieur," she said gravely, "Mademoiselle
Marie is not beautiful, nor is she
so very young. I was not much older than
she is when I married your friend Carouse."

Loigerot stared, open-mouthed with
wonder. Sitting erect on her sofa, the
widow looked, he thought, like a queen
to whom even a noble might rightly offer

liomasre ; then lie thousbt of loud-voiced
Carouse, with his red nose and clumsy
figure  he must surely have been thirty
years older than his beautiful young wife.
Loigerot had been puzzled about this when
first he saw his friend's widow, and now
he felt very inquisitive.

"Pardon me, madame, but did you
marry Carouse to please yourself ? "

** Certainly, monsieur," she said sharply ;
"and little Marie will marry you for the
same reason. In your case," she said, with
emphasis, " she will find in her husband an
indulgent protector who weill give her
liberty and luxury to which she is not
accustomed, and she will also gain a
pleasant and affectionate companion. Think
what a contrast you offer to Madame Boileau.
Bah ! "  she smiled gaily at him 
have no fear, monsieur, the little girl
will adore you when she is your wife."

The captain grew red under his bronze
skin, his little eyes shone with excitement ;
he could not control his delight ; he licked
some stray hairs of his moustache off his
lips, and rubbed his hands softly together.

I do not know how to thank you,,
madame "  he put one hand on his broad
chest. "You have chosen well indeed,
Mademoiselle Marie is charming  will you
may I ask you to add to your goodness
by taking the first steps in this matter ?
The girl is timid  she might be alarmed
if  if it was put to her too suddenly.'

Madame Carouse put her head on one
side, and looked at him curiously.

"I thought, dear monsieur, you said just
now you were not in a hurry to marry ;
you seemed indifferent about the matter 
now you are all impatience."

The captain laughed. *' You are right,
madame ; but pardon me, that was with

regard to some one nearer my own age,
I am not old, madame ; I am not fifty yet ;
but I feel that I cannot be too young for.
the charming bride you propose to me, and
I should like to lose as little time as possible
in making her my wife; but  but it is
just possible she may not be so willing*

Madame Carouse leaned back and laughed
heartily : it must be confessed that her
laughter had been kept back for several
minutes past.

*' Bravo ! it is delightful to see so ardent
a lover." Then she held up a finger and
shook her head reprovingly. ''I am not
sure that you have not been acting for
yourself, monsieur, and while you pretended
to be waiting for my guidance, you have
actually chosen your wife ; I see plainly you
are in love with the little Marie. Well,
I forgive you ; men are born deceivers, you
know. Now listen, for Moritz will be herein

a moment : I propose to ask you and a
few other friends to meet Madame Boileau
and Mademoiselle Marie at a little soire
tomorrow evening. I hope you will honour
me with your company ; you will have a fine
opportunity with the young lady ; if she
suits you, you will let me know, and I will
tell you how to proceed."

The captain's jocund face lengthened.
** To-morrow, ah ! what a pity ! " he sighed.
* I have promised to go to Bale for a day
or two on business connected with my
inheritance."

Madame Carouse was silent. Presently
she said : *' I am superstitious about delays ;
but I suppose this cannot be helped. Today
is Monday : can you not be back by
Thursday evening ? "

*eon Thursday I am at your service,
madame, and I tender you my thanks irk

advance. But do you think Madame Boileau
will consent to this marriage ? "

He looked grave, for it had occurred to
him that the old woman mioht demur ta
the double loss of her first-floor lodger and
her assistant.

"You had better leave Madame Boileau
to me," said the widow confidently.
I answer for her consent ; my only doubt
has been whether you would condescend to
marry this portionless young girl. You are
an excellent man, Captain Loigerot, she
ought to be very grateful. Have no fear of
winning her."

The captain stared, he did not feel that
he deserved praise, and he began to think
he had been very impulsive ; but the
fascination of Madame Carouse's manner
had, figuratively, carried him off his feet.
After all," he said to himself, as he stood

reflecting, *' I cannot be held bound until
I have actually proposed for the girl."

"Madame' he said aloud, *I return you
my most devoted thanks "  he took the
hand she offered and brushed it with his
coarse moustache. ** I have been thinking
however that it will be better to say nothing
to Mademoiselle Marie herself until after
your soiree."

The widow was in excellent spirits, her
scheme seemed to be progressing smoothly.
"You are as wise as you are kind, monsieur,"
she said. *' I see how well you
understand the feelings of a shy young girl.
In my opinion a formal presentation of you
as her intended husband might only flutter
and alarm Mademoiselle. Let her become
accustomed to you, and then choose your
own time for speaking of the marriage."

Marie's new gown.

I could shake them off my coat ; these burs are in
my heart."  Shakespeare.

I never saw a better-fashioned gown."

Shakespeare.

Before Captain Loigerot left Madame
Carouse she gave him a message for
Madame Boileau, informing her that the
soiree to which she had been invited was
deferred until Thursday evening. The captain
hurried at once to the '' Red Glove*
and acquitted himself of this commission.
The news was a relief to the old
woman. She had felt that Marie must be

properly dressed for such a great event,
and she had trembled at the prospect of
having to buy, at least a ready-made skirt.
She had intended to sally forth that evening
to a cheap drapery shop at the farther
end of the town, so as to make as economical
a bargain as possible. This was now
unnecessary. She possessed, hoarded away
up stairs, a piece of soft gray cashmere
which she had never had courage to make

o

up for herself till she had become too old
to wear so light a colour. It had come to
her husband in the way of business, and
he had given it to her. There would now
be time to make it into a gown.

She had scarcely spoken to Marie after
Madame Carouse's visit, and the girl had
been unusually silent, partly from a shame-stricken
consciousness of her own vehemence
in the morning, and partly because she wanted
to avoid any talk about the beautiful widow.

At supper time, however, the old woman
praised her visitor, and dwelt much on
Madame Carouse s condescension in including
Marie in the invitation to the soiree.

Marie was silent for a while ; she did
not want to provoke a fresh dispute. At
last she said : " I do not wish, madame,
to go to this party''

Madame Boileau looked at her severely ;
then she checked herself; there was no
use in irritating the girl when so much
depended on her docility. The old woman
took a pinch of snuff; 'you are thinking
of your dress, child," she said. " You maybe
easy about that, Marie ; I intend to give
you a new one."

Marie's eyes brightened. She was never
obstinate, and it would be very pleasant to
have a new gown, she thought ; the prospect
reconciled her to the idea of the party.

Thank you very much, madame."

She began to wonder whether Monsieur
Engemann would be at Madame Carouse's
soiree. She hoped he would not be there ;
she could not look in his face or feel at
ease with him, after the cruel things
Madame Boileau had said.

As Marie left the house that evening, it
seemed to her that the Red Glove hanging
in front of the shop looked swollen and a
deeper red than usual ; she almost fancied
the thumb pointed at her, and she hurried
away shivering.

What a goose I am ! " she said.

She did not go to bed when she reached
her dingy little room. She felt at once
oppressed and tired by the multitude of
events and of feelings that she had passed
through. For a moment she thought she
would let them wait till next morning.
They will perhaps come straight while I
sleep," she said. But Marie's simple, direct

way of looking at things made her sure that
she could not sleep until she had unravelled
the puzzle that had tormented her. What
was it that had made her so very angry
with her old cousin ?

After all she was afraid that vanity had
been the cause of it. Why had she felt so
excited while she talked to Monsieur Enge-
mann ? Her face had grown hot, and yet
her hands had been icy cold ; why had she
felt so upset by his presence ? It was not
because he was a man, and she had only
been accustomed to deal with women, for she
had sold gloves already to three other gentlemen,
and they had all looked at her in a very
different way from Monsieur Engemann.

She liked his way the best, so much the
best, she thought ; no one had ever looked
at her quite like that ; and once more she
wondered if it was really vain to like the
look she had seen in his eyes.

VOL. II. H

It was so kind, and yet " she paused

to think  the dear Superior's eyes had
always been kind  " and yet the look was
not the same as hers," the innocent girl said
to herself. Was it perhaps the difference that
there must be between a man's eyes and a
woman's ? And then, unconsciously, she
put up her hand over her eyes as if there
were some one by to see the pink flush that
deepened on her cheeks as she tried to recall
that sweet, delightful look, and all the talk
that had passed between them.

She did not think she had said anything
she ought not to have said ; then why had
she felt so taken by surprise, so guilty
when she heard Madame Boileau's voice ?
Her cheeks grew hotter and rosier still at the
remembrance  ah, yes ; she knew now it was
that last admiring look he gave her while she
measured the gloves which he said were too
short. The poor child was deeply conscious

of her ignorance in the ways of the world,
and she remembered that the Sisters had
warned her to beware of flattery : they had
said that if she listened to it, she would
begin to think too well of herself, and
certainly she had never felt so brave with
Madame Boileau, so self-confident as she
did just before her old cousin made that
cruel accusation.

Could it really be possible that a man
who looked so true and honest could first
flatter her until she felt vain, and then, as
Madame Boileau had predicted, go away
,nd turn her into ridicule ? A wave of
bitter mortification swept over Marie, she
hung her head and large tears rolled over
her hot cheeks.

No," she cried out, " I will not believe
it  it is better to trust than to suspect.
The Sisters always trusted ; and besides, he
is good  he must be, or he would not have

H 2

SO true and noble a face. Well, then, it is
wrong. I am not sure that it is not a
mortal sin to doubt a good person, and I
will not believe that Monsieur Engemann is
deceitful. I am sure he is quite good."

For a moment she felt so happy that she
tossed off her hat, took off her gown, and
began to take out the pins that fastened
up her long plaits of hair, for Madame
Boileau insisted on her wearing them
coiled closely at the back of her head ;
but as she brushed out the long fair hair,
till it covered her shoulders, and fell in a
broad stream of gold over the back of
her chair, another remembrance awoke, and
a sharp pain at her heart came with it.
Could it be true that he was going to
marry Madame Carouse, a widow, older
than he was ? Marie's heart beat violently.
Well, why should he not marry her ?

She went on brushing her hair very

fast, causing thereby a tangle in the golden
mass ; she could find no reason for the
intense dislike she felt for this marriage ;
but as she let her thoughts stray from
Monsieur Engemann to the beautiful widow,
Marie believed she had found a good and
sufficient cause in the haughty manner she
had noticed in Madame Carouse.

*she is not good-tempered, I am sure;
she would not make him happy."

Still, after all, it might only be an invention
framed by her old cousin ; and then
it struck her suddenly with a chilly feeling
that if Monsieur Engemann really did mean
to marry the widow he would be present at
the soiree. She wondered why she felt that
she could not bear to see him look at Madame
Carouse in the friendly way in which he
had looked at her ; she hoped earnestly that
he would be absent from the party.

But what can it signify to me if I am

not going to stay in Berne ? I shall never see
him again, never." She sighed and her eyes
filled with tears. *' He has been very kind tame,
and I am now so little used to kindness
that I am silly, and think too much about it."

She wiped her eyes, and confessed to herself
that she had not left off thinking of him
since he left the glove shop that morning.

It is time I went back to the convent,"
she said sadly. *' Actually, I can hardly
leave off thinking about him, and I want
to say my prayers."

Next morning was dull and cloudy.
Marie felt there was no use in going to
the platform beyond her lodging ; her beloved
mountains would be invisible, and
she seated herself before her little table
and tried to begin a letter to the Superior
of St. Esprit. She was determined to leave
Berne ; but she would not do anything hasty
or foolish  anything that might grieve her

kind friends in the convent. Her plan was
to tell the Superior she wished to return to
her, and then to submit to the advice she
might receive. But when she had written
the date at the top of her paper she put
down her pen, and a warm blush rose in
her face. Was she doing right ? She had
actually not been a week in Berne ; she
had not given four whole days' trial to her
new life, and already she wanted to give it
up ; she had reached the " Eed Glove " on
Friday morning, and this was Tuesday.

* I am only a great, impatient baby." She
tried to smile, but her lips quivered so that
she felt tears were not far off. She struggled
for self-control. " Yes, I am sillier than a
child. Because it is not all at once as nice as
I expect, I want to change to something else."

She looked round her room ; even this
might be worse. She had told Madame
Boileau about the ugly cracks in the walls.

and the old woman had routed out some odd
pieces of wall-paper, and had given them to
Marie, with a jar of paste and a brush. It
was wonderful to see the improvement
which this somewhat parti-coloured but
fresh-looking decoration had produced.

Marie replaced the cork in her little ink-bottle.


I will wait a whole fortnight, and by
that time perhaps I shall be happier. It is
very kind of my cousin to give me a gown,
and perhaps I shall enjoy the party."

After all, although she shrank from
Madame Carouse's patronage, she had never
been to a party, and it would be delightful
to have a new gown ; it was a long time
since she had had one. She turned resolutely
this morning from the remembrance
of Monsieur Engemann.

I hope my gown will fit," she said. " I
wonder how it will get made ? "

By this time she was due at the 'red
Glove," and she set out quickly on her way
thither. As she drew near the shop she
saw Captain Loigerot issue from the house.
He carried a bag. Marie checked her pace,
but the captain turned in the direction of
the railway station. There was no fear of
meeting him, so she went on again quickly
to the shop entrance.

She had just reached it when Monsieur
Engemann came out of the house door.
He stopped and held out his hand, and
Marie placed hers in it. She felt her
cheeks flush as she met his eyes : it was
very annoying.

Good morning, mademoiselle ; I hope
you are well," he said, with a bright
smile that made the girl feel ashamed of
her angry doubts respecting him.

She returned his greeting, but she was
not at ease. The simple confidence of

yesterday had gone from her manner, and
Engemann saw that her eyes looked onto
the shop as if she were anxious to leave
him.

"She is late, I suppose'' he thought
and he bowed and passed on,

Marie was not late ; she was thinking
whether Madame Boileau had seen her
meeting with Monsieur Engemann. She-sometimes
found the old woman in the
shop when she reached it. She did not
want to open the day with a quarrel, and
she felt that Madame Boileau might
fancy this meeting had been arranged.
"And I would rather not have met
him," she said ; " now my head will be
full of him assail." She was relieved to
find the shop empty.

Her entrance, however, was noticed : the
spider was on guard.

"Marie, come in here," cried Madame

Boileau from the curtained door of her
room.

Marie went in. The old woman pointed
to a roll of cachemire on her table.

What do you say to that, child ? " she
said. Her face was puckered with excitement,
for indeed it seemed to her that
she was bestowing on Marie a gift of great-value.


'sit is very pretty' Marie said.

"It is lovely, child; it is for you
Madame Carouse sent last night to say
that the soiree is put off till Thursday.
Can you make yourself a gown of that
stuff by Thursday if I mind the shop
now and then, eh ? "

'* Oh, thank you ! " The girl's eyes
glistened. She was ready to kiss Madame
Boileau, but the old woman had turned
away. '* It is very kind of you, madame.
Oh, yes, I can make it. I made this one"'

Then she looked troubled. " It is true that
Sister Monica cut it and fitted it, but I
did all the sewing."

Her under lip dropped, she felt nervous
as she looked at the pretty stuff.

The old woman raised her eyebrows.
riiose Sisters only turn out machines-after
all. Long before I was your age,
Marie, I could cut, fit, and sew everything
I wore. Why, Boileau never went to
a tailor after he married me." She thought
a minute. *' Stand still, child, while I
measure your skirt. There, that will do.
You can slip off the gown presently, and
I will measure the body  or, stay, I will
do it at once, and then it will be done.
There is little chance of a customer so
early."

Marie took ofi" her gown : she made a
sweet picture as she stood wondering at the
old woman's rapid dexterity. It seemed to

lier that in less than half the time that
"Sister Monica had taken to cut out the body
of her gown, Madame Boileau had got both
T)ody and skirt ready for working on.

Come to breakfast now," the old woman
said, " and then you can take this into the
shop," giving the body to Marie, with needle
and thread. *' I will cut the lining, and after
breakfast you can tack the pieces together
ready for fitting, while I sew at the skirt."

Marie went back to breakfast in a flutter
of pleasure. She was so surprised she
could hardly believe that the old woman
had been in earnest, and she felt ashamed
of her discontent and ill-humour. She was
soon back in the shop, eager to begin on
her gown, and she smiled as she touched
the soft, fine stuff, and again admired
its colour. Certainly she had wronged
Madame Boileau. Her cousin had a bad
temper, but she must be very generous.

Well, I wonder what sort of a temper
I should have had if I had not had the
example of good and gentle people. I
was angry enough yesterday."

Marie hung her head penitently over
her work, and tacked as fast as she could.
For the time the delight of the beautiful
new gown effaced the remembrance of her
meeting with Monsieur Engemann.

He had gone on to the Beauregard thinking
of Marie, and wondering at the change
in her manner. After breakfast he strolled
up to the little fountain in the hall ; he
meant to have a chat with Madame Carouse.
Loigerot was away, and Kudolf had left his
two fellow clerks still busy at breakfast.
There was no fear of gossip this morning.
But when Engemann looked in at the glass -
fronted parlour, there was only Cherii hopping
from perch to perch and chirping loudly.
Madame Carouse was not to be seen.

Five minutes ago the young man had
not been quite sure that he wished to seethe
widow. Now that he could not see
her, he felt a pang of regret. All at once
it occurred to him that he had been very ungrateful
in his recent avoidance of Madame
Carouse. He had begun it from a praiseworthy
motive, but yesterday he had
been sensible of a change in his feeling
towards the widow. He had then passed
the turning leading into the fern-shaded
space beside the little fountain without
any wish to feast his eyes on the beautiful
picture her charms used to offer to his
fascinated gaze. The spell she exercised
over him had seemed broken. To-day,
however, he reproached himself for his
indifference, and he longed to see her
again.

"She knew nothing about those fellows'
gossip," he said. " She must have wondered

at not seeing me ; she does not understand
my avoidance, and is thinking me capricious
and unfriendly; and so I am. Well, I cannot
wait to see her now, but I will makeup
for it this evenings

And then, as he went on to the bank, he
wondered whether Madame Carouse was ill.
This was the first time he had ever missed
seeing her in her parlour. Why had he
not asked Moritz ? He had behaved like a
brute.

The truth was, that the widow had heard
his footstep  she well knew the firm tread 
and she had retreated. She had not quite
determined whether she would ask him to
her party, and she was afraid of trusting
herself with him till she had finally decided.
It might cure him of any fancy for Madame
Boileau's cousin, she thought, if he understood
that the captain meant to marry
Marie.

The sight of the old glover's *' little
cousin " had given the widow a sharper
pang than she chose to confess to. On her
way home she had told herself that her own
love for Eudolf Engemann made her attach
undue importance to the little anecdote of
his kindness to Marie. He was so good
and amiable it was but natural he should
try to be of use to this young stranger.
He would be kind to any one.

When she recalled Marie's shy awkwardness
it seemed as if the best cure for
Engemann, supposing that he had taken a
fancy to the girl, would be found in seeing
Marie beside her. But this thought was
only momentary. Madame Carouse loved
Eudolf too dearly to have undue confidence
in her power of pleasing him. Besides, it
was possible  probable even  that this
country girl might have been fascinated by
Engemann, and that the younger man's

VOL. II. I

presence might interfere with Monsieur
Loigerot's success with her. When this
view presented itself, her hesitation about
asking Eudolf ended. She had promised
to help the captain, and she had no right,
she told herself gravely, to do anything to
hinder the progress of his wooing.

Still it was a disappointment not to ask
the young Swiss. She knew how greatly
she should have enjoyed his society ; but
she must be self-denying for Captain
Loioerot's sake. At the same time it must
be confessed that she recollected her invitation
to the Kisses  they were comines 
and although she snubbed the clock-maker,
she dreaded his penetration ; it would be
safer not to expose Monsieur Engemann to
the risk of meeting Marie under his eyes.
She had asked the ex-captain not to speak
of his own invitation to the soiree. ' She
wished to have only a small, quiet

gathering," she said, *sand there were justa
few acquaintances who might feel aggrieved
by being left out, etc." This would keep it
secret from the young Swiss.

Still, although there was little chance
that Kudolf Engemann would hear of the
soiree, she preferred to avoid him till it was
over. She could not bear that he should
think her deceitful. But she felt sore and disappointed
at having to do this, and it added
to the jealousy she already felt of Marie.
She had contradicted the captain's assertion,
but Madame Carouse owned frankly to
herself that the girl was handsome.

"She might even look beautiful if she
were properly dressed," she said. " When
she is Madame Loigerot, not before, I will
be kind to her, and teach her how to dress.
Yes, I mean to be very kind to her."

I 2

THE SOIREE.

I hope I shall be sufficiently understood in telling
the reader my Uncle Toby fell in love. . . . Let
love be what it will, he fell into it."  Sterne.

Marie had worked well at her gown till it
was finished ; Madame Boileau had even
praised her industry. To Marie's great satisfaction
the gown fitted admirably, and when
Thursday evening came she carried it home
to her lodging, and dressed herself with some
exultation before the little cracked mirror.

When she went back to the '* Red Glove "
Madame Boileau bade her take off her
shawl. The old woman walked round her
and surveyed her critically.

*eh, eh, that is well, that will do," she said.
** It is certainly a beautiful gown," she added
dryly. " Come along, child, and remember
you have got to follow me. Don't look about
you ; and do exactly what you see me do."

'' Yes," Marie said.

But when she reached the Hotel Beauregard
she could not help looking about
her. The old woman went on quickly ;
she did not see the admiring glances which
Moritz and a gentleman who was coming
down-stairs bestowed on Marie, as the girl
lingered for a moment to look at the persuaded
fountain.

Up-stairs, ladies, if you please," said the
waiter.

Moritz went on in front, and when they
reached the great landing he opened a door
opposite the dining-room, and ushered them
into a pretty sitting-room lighted up with
wax candles. There were bouquets of flowers

on the tables, and on a dumb-waiter in one
corner there were plates of pretty little
cakes, some iced with chocolate, and some
frosted with coloured sugar. Marie thought
everything beautiful.

Madame Carouse was alone. She had told
Madame Boileau to come early; she smiled
as she rose from a sofa, and came forward
with graceful dignity, her rich, black silk
skirt trailing behind her. While she stood
shaking hands with Madame Boileau,
and receiving the old woman's flow of
compliments, Marie was gazing at her with
delight. She had never even dreamed of
such beauty as this woman's.

Madame Carouse's dress was simple
black silk, but she had put on some of the
ornaments her husband had lavished on
her ; she had chosen the most simple among
them  a necklace and bracelets of plain
golden scales lapped one over the other

like the scales of a serpent, and these sent
out, as she moved, tongues of brilliant
light. There was such a supple grace in
this beautiful woman's movements, and in
the curve of her neck as she turned her
head to welcome Marie, that the girl felt
subjugated. It seemed to her that velvet
could not be richer than the exquisite glow
on the widow's cheeks, and how wondrously
lustrous were the dark eyes bent smilingly
on her own.

In truth, Madame Carouse's vivid beauty
showed like some rich jewel in the dusky
setting of her dark hair and sombre dress ;
not a mere blaze of splendour, but a living,
glowing radiance.

If Madame Boileau had watched the
two women gazing into one another's eyes,
she would have noted that both expressed
the same feeling.

Marie had done as her cousin did, and had

put lier hat and her white shawl  the only
bit of finery she possessed  on the table outside.
She also was a striking figure in her
simple, pale-tinted gown, only relieved by lace
frilling round her white throat and wrists.

Madame Carouse admired the firm,
round throat, and then her eyes travelled
over the pure, serene face, the limpid, gray
eyes, the creamy white of the temples, from
which the soft, brown hair was gathered in
careless waves to a little knot at the back
of the head. The fair widow sighed. She
knew that Marie's tresses could never compare
with her own magnificent wealth of
dark hair, but there was an unstudied simplicity
and freshness about the young girl
which she envied.

She gave Madame Boileau an approving
smile as she placed Marie on a sofa beside
her old cousin.

I congratulate you," she said, lowering

her mellow voice. ** She is perfectly dressed;
that soft, clinging stuff suits her exactly."
Then, going up to one of the nosegays, she
pulled from it a small bunch of flesh-coloured
carnations. " Will you permit
me. Mademoiselle Marie ? " she said. ** If
only I had a pin. Ah ! thank you, Madame
Boileau."

And just as the opening door gave warning
of fresh guests, she had fastened the
knot of carnations against Marie's whitethroat,
giving her dress the tinge of colour
it needed.

Moritz announced Monsieur and Madame
Risen, but his voice was drowned in the
gushing greeting with which that lady
entered ; it so coincided with her appearance
that it seemed as if she must have begun
her speech before the door opened. And
when she had at last yielded up Madame
Carouse to her husband, she hurried over

her greeting to Madame Boileau that she
might get at Marie.

' I am delighted to see you, my dear
young lady." She kept the girl's hand in
hers, beaming at her so approvingly that
Marie's eyes drooped under such open
admiration. "Well, well, you look charming
to-night ; you are indeed a salve for
sore eyes  as fresh as a fountain in full
play. Kiesen, look here." She turned, and
seeing her husband still bending over
Madame Carouse's hand, she frowned, and
spoke in a louder voice. ** It is not often,
is it, Madame Boileau, that one sees 
what shall I say ?  two planets shining at
once in Berne ? I love pretty faces, and
you know, my dear mademoiselle, we Swiss
are not famed for our beauty. Are we,
Madame Boileau ? "

She glanced down as she made this remark,
and thereby became aware that her remarks

were not giving universal satisfaction.
Madame Boileau's head had sunk into
her neck as a turtle's sinks into its shell.
And, indeed, except that her face was flat
instead of pointed, she did look at that
moment like a turtle ; her small, glittering
eyes were quite expressionless, and her
dark skin looked tough and creased, as
she stared stolidly before her, quite deaf to
her friend's appeal.

A gleam of malice shot into Madame
Eiesen's pale eyes. She bent down and
whispered to Marie, so loudly, however,
that the mistress of the "Red Glove"
could not escape hearing.

Never mind, my dear child, your
-cousin knows you are a beauty as well
as I do, but she is afraid I shall turn
your head. Ah ! my dear, heads are not
so easily turned, are they ? Besides, there
is another thing," she nodded her head.

*she is afraid the empress over the way-may
dislike that any one except herself
should be flattered. But I for one have
too good an opinion of Madame Carouse
to suppose that she could be so vain."

She left off whispering, and there came a
pause in her husband's talk with the widow.

Chut ! " said Madame Boileau. She
looked at Marie, then, in a tone of
fawning politeness, " Will you come and
sit beside me, Madame Kiesen ? " And she
made room at the end of the sofa.

Madame Eiesen's last sentence had
reached the quick ears of her hostess and
the clock-maker. He was gazing in rapt
admiration into Madame Carouse's beautiful
eyes, and he saw that she had heard his
wife's words.

Shall we have the pleasure of seeing
Monsieur Engemann this evening, ma-dare
? " he said quickly.

"Well, no, I think not." Madame
Carouse did not know what to say in
answer to the question which she saw
in the clock-maker's face. She knew so
well that he would not shrink from
asking the reason of Engemann's absence,
that she said, rather hurriedly by way of
changing the subject, '' but I am expecting
Captain Loigerot, and, by-the-bye, I want
to give you a hint respecting our
captain  in perfect confidence, you understand."


The last words reached Madame Kiesen.
She was in the act of making Madame
Boileau laugh by a mischievous imitation
of Lenoir the hair-dresser, but she stopped
at this.

Confidence, indeed ! " she muttered.
"I am, perhaps, a little in the way,"
she said aloud to the old woman, and
her glance pointed her words. * Confess

now, do you not think Lorenz and our
hostess would make a fine couple ; they
look well suited, don't they?" She
winked her eyes to get a tear into
them. ''I often feel," she sighed, "that I
am the only obstacle."

Madame Boileau smiled grimly. Such
talk as this in Marie's presence irritated
her more than the flattery which had
gone before it : it might put all sorts of
things into her head.

I fancy there is another obstacle, madame
; you forget Monsieur Engemann."
She knew that the jealous wife wanted to
be told that she was unreasonable, and
that she had an excellent husband ; but
she was displeased with Madame Eiesen,
and she was not inclined to indulge her.
''I fancy matters are arranged between
my lodger and Madame Carouse."

The clock-maker's wife had recovered

herself. The old woman's cynical manner
had had the bracing effect such a manner
is apt to have on excitable natures, and
while wishing she had been less expansive,
Madame Eiesen registered a grudge
to be paid to her neighbour with interest
on the first opportunity.

"Yes, yes, Kudolf Engemann is a charming
fellow," she said ; " but between ourselves
"  she put her hand beside her
mouth, speaking quite loudly enough for
Marie to hear if she chose  " do you
know I should have thought him suited
for something younger "  here she nudged
Madame Boileau with her sharp elbow 
'* something not so far off neither."

But Madame Risen was not a match
for the mistress of the " Red Glove'' She
was less clever, and she had more feeling,
and her affection for her husband offered
a quivering exposed spot which her cynical

old gossip was aware of, and could aim
at directly.

Madame Boileau opened her little eyes
to their fullest extent.

Dear me ! " she said. " I thought
equality of age in marriage was quite
an old-fashioned idea, as much out of
date as long gowns are. It seems to me
that suitability of temper is far more
necessary between husband and wife'*
Madame Kiesen winced, but the old
woman went on steadily. '* Believe me,
if a young man marries an inexperienced
girl'*  she looked at Marie  *they are
sure to quarrel and to be miserable. He
has always been accustomed to have
everything done for him, and he looks
for it ; she is in the same case : they
are both spoiled children, ignorant of the
world and its ways. I assure you,
madame, that if there is to be happiness

in the household, there must be experience
on one side or the other."

Madame Eiesen looked at her admiringly.
*' You speak like a book' she
said. *' I dare say you are right, butin
my opinion the experience should be
on the side of the husband."

*' Chut ! " said Madame Boileau again,
for Madame Eiesen had gone on talking,
heedless of the opening door; and while
Marie timidly wondered whether the newcomer
was Monsieur Engemann, the short
round figure of Captain Loigerot rolled
into the room and stood bowing before
Madame Carouse as if she were a
queen.

"Permit me, monsieur," the widow
rose from her seat. '* I wish to present
you to some old friends, and also to a
new one."

The captain's round face expressed un-vol.

II. K

limited satisfaction as he followed his
hostess to the opposite sofa. She wished
to take him at once to Marie, but Madame
Risen stopped her progress.

Ah, Monsieur Loigerot," she said,
"you have no eyes for me, and indeed
who can wonder in such a presence ?
Gray hairs are not attractive  are they,
Madame Boileau ? " She nudged her
neighbour, and then glancing at the old
woman's flat brown head, Madame Eiesen
slightly shrugged her shoulders. 'eh,
mon Dieu, you have no gray hair ; I
had forgotten."

Captain Loigerot might have repeated
the hairdresser's compliment, and this
would have secured Madame Risen's alliance
; but it must be owned that the brave
ex-soldier was in such trepidation when he
saw Marie's lovely face, and also at approaching
her under these changed circumstances,

that the room and Madame Kiesen seemed
to be going round, and he had to press his
feet firmly into the carpet to convince
himself that he stood upright on his legs.
Madame Boileau rose and made him a
deep courtesy, and in his bewilderment this
was really helpful ; her homage restored his
self-respect, and the very action of shaking
hands with his landlady recalled to him
Madame Carouse's assurance that he was
doing a kindness in becoming Marie's
husband. He turned to the girl, and he
was completely dazzled by her beauty. He
had not summoned up courage to go into
the glove shop, and as yet he had only seen
her under the shadow of her straw hat ; he
was not prepared for the distinction which
her well-placed head and her delicate skin
lent to the girl's other attractions. The captain
grew red, while he bowed as low to her
as he had just now bowed to Madame Carouse*

K 2

'' Mademoiselle Peyrolles/' said the widow,
will you permit me to present to you my
distinguished friend, Captain Loigerot, who
wishes to make your acquaintance ? "

Marie took courage at this. She looked
up and smiled, first at the widow and then
at the captain ; she gave him a little pleasant
nod of recognition.

I "  the captain was purple under his
bronze skin  *' I have already had the
pleasure  the honour, I should say  of
becoming acquainted with Mademoiselle
Marie." He puffed out each word more
than usual.

eyes, monsieur."

Marie did not find anything else to say.
Madame Carouse's fixed gaze was making
her feel awkward and self-conscious. She
was more shy of her hostess than she was
of the captain. To her relief, after saying
a few more words to Loigerot, Madame

Carouse moved on and addressed herself
to Madame Eiesen.

*' Dear madame," she said, " I want to
show you my new photograph ; you must
give me your opinion about it." Then she
moved gracefully across the room, so that
Madame Eiesen was obliged to rise and
follow her.

The mistress of the " Eed Glove " smiled
approvingly. " How cleverly she manages
it all 1 " she said to herself, *' nothing comes
amiss to her." She watched the two ladies
without turning her head ; presently she
saw Eiesen go up and join them in discussing
the merits of the new portrait, and
then she edged herself away from Marie
and slid quietly into the place just occupied
by the clock-maker's wife.

She noticed that Marie and the captain
both seemed shy, and it appeared to her
they would get on better left to themselves.

It is sometimes a fact that the
motive power of serving one's own interest
quickens one's perception.

'you must be tired, monsieur," she
said in the humble tones she always used
to her first-floor lodger. " Will you not
take this place on the sofa ? '* She pointed
to the space now left between herself and
Marie.

' I return you many thanks, madame."
The captain made two more bows  one to
Madame Boileau and one to Marie  giving
them each a full view of his pink crown,
and increasing the dusky-red colour in his
face by the exertion.

As soon as he was seated he turned to
Marie. He felt in a measure screened
from observation now that his broad back
was towards the room. This surrender of
her seat had recalled to him Madame
Carouse's hint that he need not look for any
opposition on the part of Madame Boileau.

He heaved a sigh of relief, but as he
looked at Marie he became aware that he
felt timid and hopeful of success. His
tongue felt stiff, and words did not come,
though he was trying hard to find them.

'' Courage, Achille ! " he said to himself.
*why should a woman be more difficult
to win than a town ? And I never felt
like this when I led a storming party. I
used to feel extra brave."

At that moment the refrain of a song
in which he had often joined at the caserne
flitted through his brain and gave him
courage :

Vive le vin, rumour, et le tabac,

C'est le refrain du bivouac, le refrain du bivouac."

It seemed to assure him that soldiers are
famed for success in love, and that love-making
is no more difficult than smoking
or drinking  Courage, then !  There was
an air of refinement about this oirl that

awed him ; but she looked wonderfully-sweet,
he resolved not to be faint-hearted.

Is mademoiselle  fond  of flowers ? '*
He glanced at the knot of carnations at
the girl's throat.

"Yes, I am very fond of flowers, monsieur
; " and as she loved flowers dearly,
Marie's eyes lighted up with enthusiasm
as she glanced down at the carnations.

The captain pulled at his imperial.
*' Mademoiselle  aw  will then allow me
to bring her some flowers," he said.

A smile had begun to curve Marie s lips.
The captain's manner seemed to her extremely
comic, and she wondered why he
puffed out his words so much more than
he did at their last meeting ; then she
reflected that she had never been to a
party before, and that perhaps this was
the way in which people talked at parties.
Still she did not like it ; it made her feel

strange and nervous ; but when the captain
offered to bring her some flowers her
eyes again shone with pleasure.

Oh, thank you, monsieur," she said ;
* you are indeed kind."

The captain was delighted ; he felt that
this was progress. How sweet she was, how
kind ! He half closed his eyes with ineffable
satisfaction, and sat blinking at Marie.

Mademoiselle would like to have flowers
in a garden of her own," he said presently ;
*' would she not ? " After all, he began to
see that if he could make the girl's life
very pleasant to her, she might be brought to
prefer him to the glove shop, or even to a
younger man.

But at this Marie smiled gaily and shook
her head. ** Yes, monsieur, I should like
it, but] [that is what they call ' a castle in
Spain'"

She showed her pretty teeth as she

laughed, and the captain felt inclined to
kiss her  he liked every one to be merry.
"Eh, mon Dieu." What a jocund life he
should lead with this lively young creature !

"There is no reason why mademoiselle
should not one day possess a garden," he
said pompously.

Ah, no, monsieur "  Marie shook her
head  " I shall never have a garden. I
think it would be like heaven to have a
garden of one's own ; " and she gazed pensively
at the nosegay on the table near her.

Eiesen had been watching the pair for
the last five minutes. " I see that Mademoiselle
Marie shakes her head at our friend,"
he said. " I fear that does not promise
well for the captain's success. What do
you say, ladies  am I right ? "

He was growing weary of his position.
His wife had monopolised the talk,
and his wife's presence always effectually

destroyed the pleasure of his conversation
with Madame Carouse. Eiesen
considered himself an excellent husband,
but he also considered himself necessary to
the handsome young widow ; he was her
mentor, the pilot who helped her to steer
her course safely among the rocks and
quicksands of flirtations and greedy suitors.
Yet he knew, although he turned his eyes
away from the knowledge, that the pleasure
of his talks with Madame Carouse was much
like that of a schoolboy in a forbidden
topics tree ; certainly this evening all the
special charm that usually characterised
such talks was absent.

*' Is it not so, ladies ? " he repeated, for
his hostess did not answer, and his wife
stood scrutinising the couple on the sofa
out of her pale gray eyes.

At this fresh appeal Madame Carouse
Said, with a smile that he felt to be sarcastic

: *' Captain Loigerot is both discreet
and judicious, monsieur; you are hasty in
your conjecture, I fancy. Captain Loigerot
is hardly likely to say anything that
Mademoiselle Marie can refuse this evening.
I am sure you wish him success."

She raised her eyes to his, and Eiesen
Alas conquered.

** I wish whatever you wish."

He spoke almost in a whisper, but still
his wife heard him.

The captain is surely too old, madame''
she said ; " he might easily be that child's
father. One or other must be unhappy in
such a marriage as that will be."

Eiesen shrugged his shoulders and moved
away. He was disgusted at his wife's want
of tact, but he never rebuked her in public.
Madame Carouse, on the contrary, smiled
caressingly at her offending guest, and
patted her arm.

'you are so romantic, dear Madame
Eiesen. You must please remember that
all the world are not so fortunate as you
were. We cannot all make love marriages
on both sides, you know." Her listener
shrank away a little. " Believe me, the
captain is not old, and he is very fresh and
young for his age. Moreover, you have
only to look at him to see that he is in love ;
and it is a great chance for a poor little
shop-girl to attract a man in his position.
There is no doubt of her willingness. See
how pleased she looks ! ''

As the widow met Madame Eiesen's eyes,
the triumph which the captain's success had
brought into her own faded. The clockmaker's
wife had also a triumphant expression
; but there was malice in it, and the
malice of a feeble nature is always alarming.

To look at her "  Madame Eiesen gave
a careless glance across the room  " you

would never imagine Mademoiselle Marie
to be a shop-girl, would you ? She is the
finest girl I have seen for many a day  so
fresh and youthful. And what a white skin
she has ! "  fixing her eyes on madame's
brown, shapely throat. " How the men
must admire it ! And they do. There
has been plenty of talk about her already,
and I hear she is considered very handsome.
Indeed, between ourselves, I have reason to
know that she has a younger and far more
suitable admirer than our friend the captain
there."

She looked eagerly at Madame Carouse,
but the widow's face was expressionless;
that look of malice had instantly put heron
her guard.

"Really," she said, 'you increase my interest
in the poor child ; but is this young
admirer as well able to keep a wife as the
captain is ? '*

'' I do not know "  Madame Kiesen spoke

crossly. *' As you say, I am romantic, my
dear friend ; I think of love before money
in a marriage."

Then we are agreed," said Madame
Carouse, with her fascinating smile, and
she moved nearer to where Marie was
sitting. She felt curious to know what
the captain had been saying to bring that
warm glow of pleasure to the girl's cheeks.

Loigerot could hardly take his eyes from
Marie ; the delicate flush of excitement
added so much to her beauty that he felt
enslaved. But he was obliged to turn at
last to Madame Boileau.

I have been asking mademoiselle if she
has visited the Schanzli, madame, and she
says No, but that it will give her pleasure
to go there. I  aw  therefore propose,
with your leave, to escort you both thereon
Sunday evening."

Madame Boileau turned away from
Eiesen, who was offering her a glass of sirop

from the tray which Moritz had just placed
on the table.

"Monsieur is goodness itself," she said,
in her fawning voice ; ** it will be a great
treat to go there."

I thank you, madame." Loigerot was
conscious of his power over Madame Boileau,
and he puffed out his words with
extra force. "Then  it is arranged  that
I call for you and for mademoiselle  aw
on Sunday evening."

Eiesen, who had stood by a silent listener
to this arrangement, turned to Madame
Carouse.

"The idea of pleasure is infectious," he
said, with a fatherly glance at Marie. "The
bright anticipation I see in mademoiselle's
eyes makes me feel that we too, madame,
should try to have a happy day on Sunday.
Shall we agree to go to Thun ? "

By all means," and Madame Carouse

for a moment looked almost as young and
gay as Marie did ; " I am quite willing to go."

It gets late, Lorenzo said Madame
Risen. She tapped her husband's arm
smartly with her fan.

"Yes, indeed, it is late," chimed in
Madame Boileau. "Marie, it is time to
say good night."

While Marie shook hands with Madame
Carouse, the captain whispered to Madame
Boileau,  I may walk home with you ? "
and the old woman nodded.

A word with you before you go, monsieur
le capitaine," said Madame Carouse.

But the gallant captain was already outside
the door fingering Marie's shawl, so
that he might have it ready to put it over
her when she came out on to the great
landing, after saying good night to the
Riesens. Having done this to his satisfaction,
he rolled back into the room and

VOL. II. L

caught Madame Eiesen sniggering at a joke
she had just made at his expense ; Madame
Carouse, however, came forward gracefully.

You will excuse me, my kind friend " 
the captain was almost breathless with impatience
 '' I must go, the ladies await me.
Good night, dear madame. She is perfect.
Thank you a thousand times for the happiness
you have given me."

She held out her hand, and the captain
raised it to his lips.

I congratulate you," she said. '* I had
intended to give you a few hints, monsieur,
as to the conduct of the affair, but it seems
to me you are quite able to manage for
yourself. Au revoir, and good success."

He kissed his fingers to her, and then
nodding to the Siemens, he rejoined Marie
and Madame Boileau in such a state of
excitement that he missed his footing on
the staircase, and but for Moritz's timely
aid would have rolled to the bottom.

A MOEXIXG CHAT.

There are certain combined looks of simple
subtlety, where Yhim, sense, seriousness, and nonsense
are so blended that all the languages of Babel,
let loose together, could not express them; they are
communicated and caught instantaneously."  Steele.

So far Eudolf Engemann's female acquaintances
in Berne had been limited. He was
only intimate with the beautiful widow,
and circumstances had brought him in
contact with Madame Boileau, Madame
Risen, and one or two others.

It is true that the heads of the bank in
which he was a clerk had in turn asked him
to dine with them in their chateaux some

L 2

way out of the town, and he had been introduced
to the ladies of the respective households
; but the young fellow felt that these
had been mere kindnesses shown to him,
and that the gulf between him and these
wealthy personages was too wide for free
intercourse.

Eudolf was not ambitious, and he did not
care to strain his ideas so as to force sympathy
with people who looked at life from
a different stand-point. Perhaps the key to
his sudden interest in Marie Peyrolles,
apart from the glamour created by her
looks, was the fact that he met her on
equal ground ; she was only an assistant
in a glove shop, nothing about her, however,
recalled any faults or shortcomings
connected with the position of a shop-girl ;
she was as modest and as gentle, Eudolf
thought, as if his own mother had reared
her, and this was the highest praise the

young fellow could have bestowed on any
woman ; thou-li the thought had never
occurred to him in connection with Madame
Carouse. Between him and Marie there
was another point of equality ; she had no
fortune ; she depended on her own exertions
for her living. Madame Boileau
had taken good care to make this known
to every one, and it gave Engemann a sense
of sympathy which he could not feel with
his other female acquaintances.

It was doubtless owing to this paucity
of female friends that Engemann had remained
ignorant of the soiree on the
previous evening at the Hotel Beauregard.
He had looked in at the " Ked Glove " shop
on Wednesday, but he only saw Madame
Boileau, as Marie was sewing hard at
her gown in the room behind the curtained
door.

Last night when he came out from

dinner lie saw that Madame Carouse was
again absent from her little room ; lie had
also remarked that Captain Loigerot had a
flower in his button-hole, and was singularly
silent spite of his cheerful aspect.
Engemann had noticed, too, that Moritz
drove the dinner on in a very hurried
manner, and that there was far less delay
than usual between the courses.

The young Swiss had spent his evening
at a caf, and then he had gone home
early. He had, in fact, begun his night's
rest before Madame Boileau came back
from seeing Marie to her lodging.

The morning after the party he waked
early with a feeling of pleasant anticipation,
for over-night he had resolved to get
another chat with Marie before he went to
his breakfast at the Beauregard. Looking
through the shop window of the "Red Glove'*
when he came out, he saw that she was alone.

Marie started when tie entered : she
had been thinking of the party, and as
she remembered the captain's bows and
his pompous talk, she had laughed softly
to herself.

Good morning ! '' Engemann said ;
'mademoiselle is very gay this morning's

** I, monsieur ? I was thinking " she

stopped in confusion ; she could not bring
herself to talk to him about Madame
Carouse, and yet she could not speak of
the party without doing this.

Will you not tell me your thoughts ? "
he said. " I do not feel very gay, and they
might cheer me."

He spoke like an old friend, Marie
thought, it was impossible that he could
look at her in this kind way and then
turn her into ridicule : she would not
believe it, and she raised her eyes to his
full of sweet confidence.

Engemann was thoroughly fascinated ;
those gray eyes were surely the purest
and the truest he had ever looked into,
his own seemed to be caught in the
depths of Marie's liquid glance, he could
not take them away.

*will you not tell me what you were
laughing at ? " he repeated ; and then
Marie roused  and her eyes drooped under
his gaze.

I am not sure that monsieur would
think I ought to laugh at my thoughts.
They were mischievous."

She looked up half ashamed, but
smiling. 

*but I like mischief, I am sure there
can be no harm in your mischief."

He leaned on the counter till his face
was near hers.

"Ah, but ' she stopped and put

her finger on her lips as she listened 

her head turned towards the curtained
door.

Heavens, how charming she is ! " the
young fellow said. *' Her little ear is like
a sea-shell, and what a delicious little
grimace she made at that curtain when
she thought I could not see her ! "

'but what. Mademoiselle Marie?" In
her sudden alarm  for she thought she had
heard Madame Boileau  Marie had forgotten
her unfinished sentence.

Pardon me, monsieur ; I forgot," she
said, looking up perplexed, and yet with
the same trusting look that had already
quickened Engemann's pulses.

No, no, I am not going to let you oil"
He shook his head at her, but his happy
laugh reassured the girl. 'you said you
were laughing at your thoughts, and that
you were not sure that I should approve
of them."

"Ah, monsieur"  she looked up at him
did I say all that? Well, then, I
meant that I had been amusing myself in
laughing at some one who had been kind
to me  that is wrong, is it not, monsieur ? '*

Engemann felt suddenly inquisitive.

I have not yet had the honour of
being kind to mademoiselle"  he laid a
stress on kind  "or I might perhaps fear
that I was the subject of her ridicule."

You, monsieur 1 " And then, as the
contrast between this tall, handsome young
fellow and the short, round, bald-headed
captain forced itself on her, Marie burst
out laughing.

At first Engemann joined in her laughter,
but when he found that she did not cease
he stood looking gravely at her. Marie
made an effort to be serious, but it was
useless ; she could only see the captain's
pink crown as it had bobbed and bowed

round the assembled company in Madame
Carouse's salon. " Oh, if Monsieur Enge-
mann had only seen it, he would laugh
too' she thought ; but she must not tell
him, for she believed that the captain was.
his friend. She tried to stop her laughter,
and then another glance at the young fellow's
puzzled face was too much for her ;
she leaned back against the shelves, and
pressing her handkerchief to her lips, she
laughed till she cried.

Engemann wondered at her  he was-beginning
to feel uneasy ; he did not
know how very little she had seen of the
outside world  it seemed to him that she
was very easily amused, and he had an
uncomfortable doubt that it might after
all be at his expense.

At last, after many efforts which seemed
at first only to increase her laughter, Maria
stopped suddenly and wiped her eyes.

Then she drew a long breath, and looked
in a shamefaced way at Engemann.

"Monsieur will have the great kindness
to pardon me  that is to say, I hope he
will be so good. I am very sorry ; I
have been silly." His silence made her
timid, and she looked up with quivering
lips. Could it be possible that she had
really vexed this kind friend ?

Her pleading eyes were too much for
Engemann ; he forgot his suspicions ;
Marie looked once more like the innocent,
childlike girl he had met at the
bear-pit.

It is not silly to laughs and he smiled
again till she felt once more reassured.

Does monsieur go sometimes to the
Schlinzli ? " she said. It seemed to her
that a fresh topic would make her safe,
she was so afraid of another fit of laughter.

I have been there, but not often. Are

you going there next Sunday, Mademoiselle
Marie ? ''

I think so ; yes, if it is fine, we are to
go there." Her voice shook a little, for she
could see the captain's face as he had proposed
the expedition. She wished so very
ranch that she could tell the whole story
to Monsieur Engemann ; but then she must
also talk of Madame Carouse and her
soiree ; besides  no, it was not possible 
she could not laugh openly at the captain
to his friend.

Engemann mentally decided that if he
did not go to Thun, he would meet Marie
t the Schanzli.

"There will be no bears there to alarm
mademoiselle," and he gave her an expressive
look.

Marie blushed.

*' But, monsieur, I could not be really
frightened, because you told me there was

no danger. If monsieur had not been there,
then "

Engemann interrupted her by a low bow;
but she looked at him so frankly that the
next minute he was ashamed of having
turned her words into a compliment.

*' I was, then, of some use to mademoiselle.
I rejoice to hear it. But"  he
still felt inquisitive as to the subject of
her laughter " perhaps that assertion will
only afford amusement to mademoiselle, or
what do I know ?  it has, perhaps, already
afforded her amusement."

"Ah, monsieur," Marie exclaimed, "am I
not yet forgiven my silly laughter ? "

Marie ! Marie ! " The sharp tones
reached their ears before Engemann could
answer. He reddened, for he had not
come in to buy gloves, and he knew
that he should have been the first to
blame Marie if she had encouraged any

other young fellow to stand talking to
her in the shop ; but as he looked at her
sweet, beseeching eyes, he felt confident
that it was all his own fault ; he had led
her on to talk, gentle, simple child that
she was, and she looked on him as a friend
whom she could trust.

And while the thought came to him,
he shook her hand heartily. ' Au re voir,
mademoiselle," he said, and he was gone
before Madame Boileau entered the shop.

Marie was thankful for his hasty departure.
It saved her from a scolding ;
and when, after a previous spy through
the glass-door, her old cousin came in, the
girl was diligently dusting the counter.
Marie's cheeks glowed and her heart beat
quicker than usual ; she was ready to
dance with happiness, and yet she could
not have said why.

Eudolf hurried up the Spitalgasse. He,

too, felt in a strangely happy mood ; and
as he reached the hotel he looked across
at the street which opened on the other
side of the way.

Just beyond the hotel, at the corner of
the opposite street, was a flower shop.
There was little show of flowers in the
broad window  a plant or two, some dried
grasses, and two or three wreaths of immortelles
; but even a comparative stranger
like Kudolf knew that this shop had a reputation
for bouquets, and he had more than
once thought whether, in token of gratitude
for her kindnesses, he ought not to order
a nosegay there and present it to Madame
Carouse.

He was about to turn into the hotel to get
his breakfast when he saw Captain Loigerot
coming out of the flower shop. The captain
stood for an instant, with a certain
swagger in his attitude, balancing himself

on the door step, his legs wide apart, and
a hand down deep in each pocket ; a smile
of perfect but indescribable satisfaction
broadened his face, while it narrowed his
eyes into slits.

Kudolf felt inquisitive. In a quiet town
a small occurrence serves to arouse curiosity.
Had the captain been ordering a
bouquet ? What could Loigerot want with
flowers ? the young fellow wondered. And
then it occurred to him that possibly the
captain, too, wished to make an offering to
Madame Carouse.

He was inclined to cross the street and
ask Loioerot what he had been doings, but
his reserve made him hesitate ; after all it
was not his business. Presently Monsieur
Kiesen came up and spoke to the captain,
and then, seeing Engemann in the hotel
entrance, they both crossed over to him.

The clock-maker was lausjhins: heartily,

VOL. II. M

but Loigcrot looked confused and even
redder than usual.

"Well, well, my friend," said Kiesen,
''I admire you immensely; such promptitude
is only to be expected from a soldier,
and no one can say you are faint-hearted.
You have the courage of a hero''

Mon Dieu ! why should I be fainthearted
? " the stout man drew himself upas
he answered. He felt annoyed ; he had
not made a confidant of Monsieur Eiesen,
and he did not care to be ridiculed in this
way before Engemann. '' I  I "  he pulled
at the tuft of hair on his chin  " it seems
to me that it would be ungrateful on my
part to have any hesitation or doubt in
the matter. I do not understand you."

Eiesen burst into another hearty laugh.
Great heavens ! I beg pardon," he said.
"I had no notion of your rapidity; that
walk home last night"  he lowered his

voice  " that gave the affair a lift, I fancy.
Well, I congratulate yon. Ha, ha ! "

The captain nodded, but he still looked
grave ; and as he turned away, Madame
Carouse's parting request came back to the
clock-maker, and made him feel foolish.

'spray keep this affair secret, dear
friends," she had said, holding Eiesen's and
his wife's hand in each of hers. *' People
might laugh about it, and our captain
would not submit to ridicule, I fear ; do
not tell any one until I announce it
publicly."

And Monsieur Kiesen had solemnly
promised over that soft hand that no
one should learn anything from him, and
now he had joked the captain on this
delicate subject before Engemann. Already
he saw a question in Engemann's honest
blue eyes. He must endeavour to prevent
this from being uttered.

M 2

''I am fortunate this morning," he
said to the young fellow, " I had been
planning how I could see you."

Kudolf smiled. *' I am easily found.
I am at the bank every day till four,
or I am to be found here at this hour,
and at dinner."

Yes, yes, I know ; but during the
day I have my business to see to, and
I hear when you leave the bank you
take prodigious walks into the country."

*eyes, I am fond of a walk. I get
an appetite ; and it gives me something
to do."

Risen gave him a smile that puzzled
Engemann, it was so incredulous.

*' I should have thought you might find
plenty to do here."

There was the slightest movement of his
eyes toward the hotel.

It seems to me that as you wanted to

speak to me, you have something to tell
me?" Engemann said; he had often listened
to the clock-maker's talk with Loigerot
and others, and he was on his guard against
Kiesen's fashion of extracting a confidence.

The young Swiss was too simple to be
irritated by ridicule ; he had not self consciousness
enough to apply it personally ;
but he still shrank from any comment
on his friendship for the widow.

"Yes, yes." The clock-maker smiled at
the check  there was no obtuseness in
Monsieur Risen ; he was fully conscious
of the force of every blow which he either
dealt or received. '' I was about to propose
to you that, as the weather now seems
settled, there is, I fancy, no hindrance to
our holiday at Thun. Why should not our
boating-expedition be fixed for Sunday ?
What do you say ? Are you able to go
with us ? "

"Thank you, yes; I shall enjoy it of
all things. At what time do you propose
to start ? "

Kiesen looked at the tall young fellow
with an inexpressible air of self-satisfaction.
"Ah, I have arranged that with our fair
hostess. We are to breakfast with Madame
Carouse about ten o'clock, and afterwards
we can all go together to the station. I
will order a boat to be in readiness at
Scherzlingen to take us as far as Gunter.
On our return Madame Carouse wishes
to land before we reach Thun, and to
walk back through the woods. We will
dine at the Freienhof  they feed you well
there  and we can come home by train in
the cool of the evening. Do you approve
of this programme ? I flatter myself it is
an admirable one."

He said all this smilingly, but his voice
sounded stubborn. It galled him to think

that, although he would be at all this
trouble, this young fellow was really master
of the situation ; for, on making his arrangements
on the previous evening with Madame
Carouse, she had more than once said that
it must depend on whether Sunday would
suit the convenience of Monsieur Engemann.

Engemann's face was sufficient answer
to Eiesen's question, and it is possible that
the glow of pleasure it expressed was an
extra cause of irritation to his companion.

*' I think your programme is very good,"
the young fellow said. Then, although
he was not very observant, he noticed
Risen's constrained manner. " It is very
kind of you," he added, with a smile genial
enough to sweeten a cynic, " to take so
much trouble to give others a pleasant
holiday''

"It is not altogether for others, my
friend ; I also intend to get some pleasure

out of it, though "  Eiesen went on in
his mocking way  " I do not expect to
reap from it the profit to which you aspire.
Pardon me, I am keeping you from your
breakfast."

The sudden colour in the young fellow's
face showed him where Engemann was
vulnerable. Eiesen smiled pleasantly, ashe
nodded his farewell.

"After all," he said to himself, *'if he
has any sense of honour, he will not
propose to Madame Carouse. He is such
a boy, young for his age, too, he must
know what will be said of such an unequal
match. The worst of it is, she may make
it impossible for the young fellow to help
proposing to her. Those eyes of hers are
omnipotent  and if she means it "

He arched his eyebrows at this till they
nearly reached his hair, and bending his
head forward till his gray beard sank into

his waistcoat, he walked thoughtfully
home.

Meanwhile "the young fellow" had
walked up to Madame Carouse's parlour
in a happy frame of mind. He loved
boating, and it was some time since he
had had a real holiday. These were not
quite the reasons he had given himself
last Saturday, but he was not aware of
that. Kiesen's programme had sounded
to him almost fairy-like, for he knew
well how beautiful was the scenery of the
Lake of Thun. He was impatient to
thank Madame Carouse for the pleasure
she had procured for him.

The glass-door was closed, and when
he looked through the window he saw
that the room was empty.

It was still early, and Madame Carouse
had been tired out on the previous evening.
This morning, instead of rising as soon

as she had drunk her chocolate, she turned
round and was now fast asleep.

Before she came down - stairs, Kudolf
Engemann, seated at his desk at the bank,
had remembered that it was now out of
his power to meet Marie at the Schanzli.
But he had made no promise to the girl,
and he had already accepted Madame
Carouse's invitation.

THE captain's NOSEGAY.

A good heart is the sun and moon ; or, rather, the
sun, and not the moon ; for it shines bright, and never
changes, but keeps his course truly. If thou would
have such a one, take me : and take me, take a
soldier."  Shakespeare.

Captain Loigerots excitement must certainly
have kept watch over him during the
night after the soiree, for as soon as he
opened his eyes he had been conscious of
the delightful event in store for him.

He rose, dressed himself with extra care,
stared at himself in the glass to see if he
looked as young as he felt; he was tolerably
satisfied with the result, for the good captain

was not fastidious about small details ;
and the fine network of creases at the
corners of his eyes escaped his notice ; his
bald head, too, was invisible as he looked
into his mirror on the wall of his bedroom.
After this he had gone to pay his daily visit
to Lenoir, whose shop was in the Korn-
market, just opposite the Ogre fountain.

The hair-dresser was in a sulky mood.
He had learned all about Madame Carouse's
soiree, and although he did not venture
to rank himself with the other guests, he
thought he was quite as good as Madame
Boileau or her cousin. Madame Boileau,
forsooth ! the old scarecrow ! why, she would
never have come to Berne but for his
intervention.

While Lenoir shaved him, the captain
was as gay and chirp as a bird. He softly
rubbed his hands, and, smiling as he did so,
he narrowly missed receiving a mouthful of

lather. "We had a charming entertainment
last night at the Beauregard," he said.

'' Will monsieur be good enough to hold
his face still ? " the hair-dresser answered
grimly. **My razor is very sharp this
morning, and "

Then, while his victim sat motionless as
marble, he went on securely :

'* Yes, yes, monsieur ; I have heard of it.
I heard that the gentlemen enjoyed themselves
more than the ladies did. You
wanted another man or two, a more lively
spirit among you, I fancy ; ladies like
variety, you know, monsieur."

Loigerot longed to say that he was sure
some of the ladies had enjoyed their evening
very much ; but his words never came to
him quickly, and under present circumstances
he reflected that silence was his
most prudent course ; a gash on his chin
might make him unpresentable to Marie.

So he held his peace, and Lenoir relapsed
into sulkiness. In the humour he was in,
it would have given the barber a savage
but sincere satisfaction to shave the captain's
moustaches.

Loigerot did not stay to talk when the
shaving was over, he was impatient to
order the bouquet he had promised himself
to give to Marie. He had resolved not
to present himself at Madame Boileau's
without the flowers.

When he reached the shop, it was disappointing
to hear that he would have to
wait for the gratification of his wishes ; the
garden belonging to the shop was at some
little distance from the town, and although
there were plenty of ordinary flowers at
hand the showman said, that as monsieur
desired choice roses and carnations, and
some hot-house blossoms besides, it would
be necessary to send to the garden for them.

It had been a relief to the captain's
fidgety impatience to get that chat with
Kiesen and Engemann when he left the
flower shop ; but the clock-maker's badinage
had greatly annoyed him. He had an
uneasy dislike of ridicule under present
circumstances ; and he especially wished
that Engemann should not learn his engagement
until he himself had seen Marie
again. When he remembered her friendliness
and her smiles last night he felt
tolerably safe ; but still it seemed wiser
not to put himself into competition with
a younger man till the affair had taken a
step in advance.

If she accepts my flowers," he thought,
*' that will be a clincher. Little darling, she
is too young and innocent to take presents
from one man while she smiles on another ;
yes  yes, I think she will take them."
When he left the flower shop he actually

walked off to Zimmerman, and breakfasted
there, timing his return so as to reach
Berne soon after four o'clock, the time at
which the flowers were to be ready.

He was a little tired with his twelve
miles' walk, for the road had been hilly
and the sun hot, and he sat down to rest
in the outer shop while the young woman
behind the counter went into the greenhouse
beyond to fetch the nosegay. There
was a look of conscious pride in her face as
she held out an enormous bouquet for his
inspection.

It is beautiful, is it not, monsieur ?
I am not sure that we have made so fine
a bouquet this season. These carnations
are unique pot flowers, Monsieur Dunelloy's
own seedlings, and the roses are choice
blossoms, and these delicate sprays between
are very rare. Monsieur may be sure that
the bouquet will give satisfaction." Lie

turned it slowly round, as she pointed out
the various flowers. '' Will monsieur have
the kindness to say where it must be sent ? "

The captain blushed, and stuffed his
hands into his pockets.

"Nowhere," he said solemnly. "I intend
to carry it myself."

The young woman looked at the captain,
and then at the bouquet ; she was amused
but she was too polite to smile.

"Monsieur will wish me to put some
paper round it ? " she said.

Loigerot held out his hand, and taking
the nosegay from her, he surveyed it with-satisfaction.


It seems to me," he said pompously,,
"that it has already some pretty paper
round it. If you wrap it up, you may
injure the flowers, mademoiselle, and
crumple the lace edging. No, I think it
is beautiful, and I will take it as it is."

VOL. II. N

He handed her the nosegay to hold
while he felt in his pocket for the price
he had arranged to pay for it, and then he
bade her good morning ; and swelling with
the pride he felt in his new possession, he
came out of the shop. He kept on the
opposite side of the street from the hotel.

The woman who had served him came
to the door, and stood there indulging
her laughter as the short, broad figure
stumped along the street with the huge
nosegay carried carefully in front of him.

Loigerot was not at all ashamed of what
he was doing, but he wanted to avoid
Eiesen's shop, and also to avoid the chance
of a meeting with the hair-dresser. The
gallant captain went on quickly, he was
impatient to reach the *' Red Glove," he
wanted to see Marie's delight and to receive
her thanks. He felt too that the
occasion was important.

*' Madame Carouse says it is the right
thing to give a nosegay." He puffed out
his cheeks. '* I  I like to do the right
thing. I always did the right thing in
the army, and I mean to do the right
thing in courtship."

Just as he reached the bank, Eudolf
Engemann came out of it, and seeing
Loigerot's nosegay, he stopped short.

Hullo, captain ! " he broke into a
hearty laugh, *what a splendid nosegay!
ril wager it's on its way to a fair lady,
and yet you are turning your back on the
Beauregard, eh ? Can I guess for whom
these flowers are intended ? "

Loiojerot reddened, and moved first one
foot and then another.

*' You need not guess ; I will tell you.
I am carrying them to a friend." He
spoke with dignity, and he planted his
legs wide apart, and stared defiantly at

N 2

Engemann. The young fellow's broad
smile had made him feel ridiculous.
"There is nothing for you to laugh at,"
the captain's words came out quickly.
*' I am carrying these flowers to the lady
who is to be my wife."

Engemann took off his hat and made
a low bow.

"You must pardon me, captain," he said.
Please accept my congratulations ; this is
news indeed, I was not aware that you had
any such intentions. I wish you success."

He was going to ask the lady's name,
but the captain's impatience would not
brook further delay; he returned the
young fellow's bow, and then crossed the
street in a hurry and disappeared under
the arcade. He had no wish to let
Engemann surprise his secret. Until he
and Marie appeared together in public
the captain thought there was no occasion

to speak of this engagement to any one
except Madame Carouse.

I must do something for that good lady
by-and-by," he said slowly. " She has
been very kind and helpful to me. Well,
I might offer her a bouquet  not such
a one as this, of course'' He looked
lovingly at his treasure, and pulled at
the tuft of hair on his chin. " It would
be too pointed an attention. Engemann
might not like it. Ha ! ha ! I need not
trouble myself about him ; he will not
interfere with my little girl, he can only
have eyes for his widow. I cannot for
the life of me conceive why he was not at
the soiree. If he does not look sharp, my
wedding will take place before his is settled."

But here he was in sight of the Ked
Glove ; the sun fell upon it through the
archway in front, and it looked redder
and more plethoric than usual.

If the captain had been imaginative
he might have fancied that the scarlet,
burly emblem was ready to burst its
three gilt buttons in giving him a grip
of friendly welcome ; but it was the old
story of eyes and no eyes. The captain
saw no change in the glove, while to
Marie this morning it had administered
a shock. To her the Eed Glove had
seemed more scarlet with anger than
ever, and she could hardly believe that it
had not again pointed at her in mockery.

Last night Madame Boileau had
signed to her to enter the house with
her, and then, when the captain had
shaken hands with them both, and had
gone up-stairs to his own rooms, the
old woman had escorted Marie to her
lodging.

*you must never go out at night by
yourself, child," she had said; *rit ruins a

girl's character if she is seen out by herself
in the dark so late as this."

Marie had been very absent-minded today,
and had made more than one
mistake in her duties, yet Madame Boileau
had only smiled to herself. Once she
had shaken her head at her, for Marie had
shown kid gloves to a customer who
asked for gants de Suede ; but on the
whole the girl was relieved to have
escaped the scolding she had felt to be
inevitable. She thought that the party
must have sweetened Madame Boileau's
temper.

**If she enjoyed it as much as I did,
no wonder. What a mistake I had
nearly made ! I thought I should be
miserable and frightened, and that good-natured
old captain was so kind ! The party
has given me something to think about."
She blushed; she knew that she had

been thinking far more about Monsieur
Engemann's visit than of the party. If he
had been there, it seemed to Marie that she
should have been too happy. She liked
the captain, though she wished he would
not stare at her so much ; but then the
Sisters had always told her that she must
never take up a prejudice against any one
because of a special manner  a manner of
which the person was perhaps completely unconscious;
and he was so absurdly amusing.

In the case of Madame Carouse, Marie
felt that she had made a mistake. The
widow certainly was patronising, but her
kindness in giving Marie the carnations had
proved that she did not dislike her. She
had a haughty manner, that was all.

It is possible that the happy feelings
which Engemann's visit had caused had
made her feel indulgent to every one.

The shop-door opened, and Marie rose,

ready to receive a customer. Her eyes were at
once attracted by the flowers wMcli Captain
Loigerot carried. They brought an exquisite
fragrance into the shop. She saw them
almost before she recognised him. He
stood still, and made her a low bow.

I hope I see mademoiselle well," he
said. Then to himself : '' What a little
darling she looks 1 " He went up to the
counter, and shook hands with Marie. " I
am sure mademoiselle slept well, I see without
asking." He stopped abruptly; he began
to be nervous. How was he to give her the
flowers? This idea had never occurred to
him. '*I should have asked Madame Carouse,"
he thought, and cleared his throat with an
effort. At the sound the door of communication
opened, and in came Madame Boileau.

*' Good day, monsieur le capitaine ; it is
so very kind of monsieur to call," she said
fawningly. " Mercy, what beautiful flowers ! "

Loigerot gave a sigh of relief, and
turned to Marie. *does mademoiselle  aw
also think these flowers beautiful ? " he
said, pulling out his words, and keeping his
eyes on her face, which was now full of
admiration of the nosegay.

'* They are lovely," the girl said. " I did
not know that there were such beautiful
flowers in the world. Ah, how sweet the
scent is'' She bent forward to smell them.

The captain held out the nosegay.

"Mademoiselle, such as they are, they
are yours, if you will do me the great
honour of accepting them."

Marie did not take the flowers ; instead,
she pressed her hands nervously together,
and looked at the captain to see if he were
in earnest ; it seemed to her that he must be
joking, then she looked at Madame Boileau.

"They are yours," he repeated, and he
pressed the nosegay into her hands.

*' Oh, monsieur, how kind, how very
kind I "  her eyes swam with tears as she
looked at him. *' I don't know how to
thank you for such goodness ; " and then
she hid her face in the flowers. She felt
ashamed of herself for having ever laughed
at this kind man.

Loigerot was delighted. "Sweet, innocent
creature 1 " he murmured. He had an
idea that the correct things mioht be for him
to kiss Marie ; but at the same time he was
not at all sure about this sort of etiquette,
and the girl looked so unconscious that he
feared lest such a proceeding should alarm
her. He glanced appealingly at Madame
Boileau.

** Monsieur is indeed kind," said that
worthy woman. '' You owe monsieur le
capitaine many thanks, Marie."

I am very grateful to monsieur," the
girl said.

The captain drew himself up, and planted
his feet still farther from one another.

Mademoiselle "  he spoke extra slowly ;
he felt that this was a pregnant sentence
''I should say, Mademoiselle Marie
Peyrolles, I am delighted. I have been
thanked in the most marked and also in
the best possible way by mademoiselle's
acceptance of this small offering. Mademoiselle
has gratified me more than I can
say."

He had been drawing out a huge 
silk pocket-handkerchief, and
now he buried his nose in it.

Marie "  Madame Boileau spoke in
her most caressing tones  *' will you go to
the kitchen and get some water ? You will
find a glass vase there which will hold your
nosegay. It is a shame to keep such flowers
a moment out of water."

Marie went away with her treasure, burying

tier face in the flowers as site went.
She longed to kiss them every one, they
were such lovely, living companions. She
could not yet realise that they were her
own.

Madame Boileau came so close up to
the captain, and smiled so amiably in his
face, that he felt just a little nervous.
Great Heavens ! Could it be part of the
programme that he had to kiss the guardian
of his future wife ? He looked at the grim
face, now very near his, and he retreated a
step.

Diable ! " he said to himself : " Vd as
soon kiss a toad."

Madame Boileau's humility being only
skin-deep, she was quite unconscious of his
repugnance.

Monsieur," she whispered, '* I beg pardon,
but monsieur should be very cautious ;
Marie is not prepared for  for the honour

in store for her. She is very shy, very
childish, she has not been used to men ;
monsieur's face is expressive."

Confound it, madame ! "  he spoke
quickly enough now  *'a fellow can't help
his looks at such a time. If I had kissed
the sweet child you might have "

She put her skinny fingers on his arm.

"I hear her coming, monsieur; I
entreat monsieur not to weaken the
good impression he has made by an
imprudence."

''I may kiss her, I take it?"

Madame Boileau raised her hands ina
sort of gasping protest ; she was alarmed
at such a premature proposal ; then, as
Marie pushed open the glass-door, the old
woman looked meaningly at the captain,
kissed the back of her own brown, shrivelled
hand, and shook her head.

It seemed to Marie that she had not

thanked her benefactor enough. She
placed the glass with the nosegay in it
carefully on the counter, gave it a loving
look, and then she turned to Loigerot.

"Thank you ever so much, monsieur; I
never had such a nosegay before. Ah,
monsieur"  her shining eyes were so full
of gratitude that Loigerot drew nearer;
he thought he might at least take her
hand  " I am very thankful ; monsieur is
so kind," she said, *ras kind to me as if he
were my father."

Loigerot started, and then bowed stiffly
to hide his confusion.

*' Mademoiselle is  is easy to please."

Morbleu ! this is harder work than
storming the Malakoff," he thought. ** I
must go and fortify myself at the cafe."
He bowed low to Madame Boileau and
to Marie. "Au re voir, madame et mademoiselle,"
he said, and he left the shop.

Tonnerre ! " he said when he got
outside. " It came like a pistol-shot,
but perhaps it is all innocence. Her
father was doubtless the only man she
has ever been fond of. I need not have
run away ; but a petite goutte will give me
courage to return to the charge."

RUDOLF Heads NEWS.

By heaven, I would most gladly have forgot it !
Thou saidst  Oh, it comes o'er my memory,
As doth the raven o'er the infected house,
Boding to all."  Shakespeare.

The bright summer afternoon had become
more beautiful, fleecy clouds had softened
the hardness of the blue sky, but the sunbeams
shot volleys of brilliant light between
the tree-stems, and their long shadows fell
across the avenue, and gave a parti-coloured
effect to the three young men who walked
along it in the direction of Berne.

His two fellow-clerks, Christen and

VOL. II. o

Wengerii, had met Engcmann at the Enge,
and were walking home with him. As they
came down through the slanting shadows,
sometimes Rudolf would be almost eclipsed
by the gloom, while the two others were
revealed with startling distinctness as the
clear sunshine lit up their red, good-tempered
faces and straw hats. Then,
in turn, they sank into obscurity, and
Engemann was clearly revealed, tall and
strong-looking, but with just now a
perplexed expression on his usually serene
face.

It would seem as if big men, as a rule, have
little talent for intrigue or contrivances.
The young Swiss wanted to get rid of his
companions, and yet he could hit upon
no device by which to do it. He shrank
from showing his desire to part company
; it might vex them, he thought ;
also he feared to make them suspicious.

*' Somewhere hereabouts," said young
Christen, whose slight, boyish figure was
a strong contrast to that of his tall, robust
companion, "is the Bower of Bliss, in
which our fair widow lived in old Carouse's
time. I believe the fellow was a regular
Turk, and kept her shut up here with a
duenna."

"He was not a Turk, then," said
"VYengern ; " that's a confusion of ideas,
he would have had a choice of wives if
he had been a Turk. But where is this
blissful retreat ? One ought to find it out."

He gave a furtive look at Engemann,
but he was staring at the river far below
the green bank and the road which lay
between. He seemed not to have heard
Wengern's suggestion.

He had, however, heard it distinctly,

and it had taken his thoughts at once to

Madame Carouse. In these last days she had

o 2

almost faded out of his reveries. Her glowing
beauty, and the dark, bewitching sweetness
of her liquid eyes had been replaced by a
pure, pale face, with a colour as faint as
the blush on an early rose. Instead of
those splendid dark eyes of hers, clear, gray,
truthful ones seemed to look at him, full
of the shrinking candour of childhood.
But in thinking of Marie, Engemann had
become conscious of a different kind of
contemplation from that evoked by the
glowing image of the widow. Till this
last interview with her he had not thought
only of Marie's looks. Although he did
not remind himself that the question of
sympathy in companionship had been one
of the obstacles that had held him back
from the beautiful widow, he seemed to
know by instinct that this young girl fully
realised his ideas on this question. Enge-
mann did not consciously think about love

for either of these women ; but he felt that
if he could afford to marry, he could go
through life most happily with Marie.

Christen's words now brought back
vividly a vision of Madame Carouse,
and Kudolf felt shocked by a sudden sense
of ingratitude towards her. One sometimes
receives a mental shock in finding that a
quality on which one has prided one's self
is wanting, or that a defect especially distasteful
is present in one's mental constitution.
Engemann despised caprice, and yet
he felt convicted of it. He could give
absolutely no valid reason for the sudden
slackening' of his interest in his beautiful
friend. Only a week ago her image had
pursued him so persistently that he had had
to banish it by a strong effort, so that it
might not interfere with business, and

now He felt much self-contempt as he

recalled the occasions during the last twO

days when he had been glad to talk to
Kiesen or to some other acquaintance as he
came down the hotel stairs, so as to give
himself an excuse for shirking an interview
to which, only a short while ago, he had
looked forward with eagerness.

He did not attempt self-deception ; he
knew very well that it was the sight of Marie
gazing at the edelweiss, and the impression
since made on him by her sweet, innocent
ways, her charming simplicity and frankness,
that had chilled his warm feeling for Madame
Carouse. But he told himself sternly this
was mere caprice, as unmanly as it was contemptible
in any man. This new fancy
ought not to interfere with his friendship.
His head sank with shame on his breast ashe
remembered that in his own case the
ingratitude of this caprice was aggravated by
the kindnesses which this beautiful woman
had shown him.

He had known her for six months, and
he had not yet seen Marie as many times.
When he came, a stranger, to Berne, it was
Madame Carouse who had found him his
comfortable lodging at the ' Red Glove"; and
when he had told her that his means were
limited, it was again Madame Carouse who
had arranged the price for him, and had
induced Madame Boileau to abate her
charges.

Indeed, the widow had taken all the
young fellow's troubles on herself. She
had lent him books ; she had asked him asa
favour to use the free admissions sent to
her for concerts and other entertainments,
on the plea that the retirement in which she
lived prevented her from using them. Last,
but certainly before all the rest, he had
esteemed her kindness in admitting him as a
specially favoured visitor to those quiet talks
in the glass-fronted parlour. Lately these had

been meetings rather than talks. Engemann.
remembered, and he reddened at the recollection,
that he had stood gazing at Madame
Carouse, wondering at and enjoying the
sight of her beauty, as she leaned back
with languid grace on her sofa, her dark
lashes resting on her velvet cheeks, then
raised suddenly with a wonderful glance
from the brilliant eyes beneath them, a
glance whose fire was at once quenched in
liquid softness as the bewitching widow
met his eyes fixed on hers. The young
fellow could only liken the eyes of Madame
Carouse to those of the Princess in the
fairy tale.

Yes, he had behaved heartlessly to her,
he had been most neglectful. He would
certainly go and see her this evening, and
try to make amends.

"Engemann"  he started, and both the
young fellows laughed, for they had been

watching his troubled face with some amusement
 " why were you not at the party ? "

What party ? "

*' What ! you have not even heard of it ?
This is capital ; you do not even know
what you have lost, my fine fellow."
'Christen rubbed his hands. " Why, your
beautiful friend Madame Carouse gave a
party last night. What have you done to
the fair widow that she should not invite
you with the rest of her friends ? Have
you quarrelled with her ? ''

Engemann was surprised and amazed,
but he answered quietly : " I suppose
Madame Carouse is at liberty to invite
whom she pleases. Who told you of this
party ? Were you present ? "

No ; we do not come in for such
honours. We heard of it from the hairdresser,
Lenoir, He says it was but a small
affair. Kiesen and his wife and Captain

Loigcrot were the only guests, except your
old witch of a landlady and her pretty
cousin. I think the widow might have
asked a young man or two, if it was only
for the sake of talking to that pretty little
girl ; she must have been dull."

Engemann stared ; then he laughed.
The idea of Madame Boileau at a party
was ridiculous.

*that chatterton Lenoir was joking,"
he said ; "he was stuffing you to see how
much you would both swallow."

Aha ! " Christen laughed. " The grapes
are sour, my friend; you must find them
very sour, I am sure. What has happened,
eh ? We all considered you as good as
betrothed to madame. When I first heard
of the party I thought it had been given to
introduce you as the new master of the
Beauregard."

"I have already told you. Christen" 

Engemann spoke sternly  "that I will
not have this nonsense talked about me and
Madame Carouse. There is nothing between
me and that lady. You have no right to
couple any woman's name with mine. I
tell you you are altogether mistaken ; you
had best mind your own business."

He fixed his blue eyes sternly on the
young fellow, and Christen shrank from
the gleam he saw in them.

Wengern, however, came to his rescue.

' Come, come, Engemann," he said coolly,
' it is all very well to look as sulky as a
bear, and to say I will and I will not, when
the fellow you say it to is half your size.
Christens is only a bit of chaff; a man
must pay for what he gets, whether it is
success with a woman or any other kind of
success. Every one in the town knows
that the widow favours you among us all.
She has always favoured you from the time

you first came here. I don't lame you for
winning her, but why should you be angry
and blame Christen for chafing you ? Come
along, Heinrich ; Engemann would rather
be alone."

They both pulled off their straw hats,
and, walking quickly on, they turned into
a road that led them down beside the river.

Kudolf Engemann stood still. He was
very angry for some minutes ; then, as the
fumes cleared, his judgment asserted its
presence, and he felt like a fool.

What does it matter ? But I have
offended her, then, by my neglect, and she
would not ask me to her party  no, I wrong
her ; she is too kind and gentle to be angry.
She did not ask me because she thought I
should not care to go."

He set his teeth hard as he went briskly
into Berne. Walking up the Spitalgasse,
in cool shadow now, for the tall houses

made it impossible for the setting sun to
reach it, he remembered that the flippant
young fellow had said Madame Boileau
and Marie were at the party. How was it
that Marie had said nothing about it to him
this morning ? As he passed the " Eed Glove'*
he looked once more in at the shop window.
Marie was there, but he could not see her
face ; it was hidden in a bouquet of flowers
that stood on the counter. She was leaning
over them ; she seemed to be actually
kissing the blossoms.

Poor little thing ! how she cares for
them, one sees she has been bred in the
country," he thought ; and he entered the
house and went up-stairs to his rooms.

He took extra care in dressing himself
to-night; if he had not kept his hair
pretty closely cropped it would have curled
all over his head, not in close woolly rings
but in sculpturesque curves ; as he brushed

it, its rich gold-colour glowed, and his blue
eyes were almost black, the pupils had so
dilated with the eagerness with which he
thought of seeing Madame Carouse  he
was piqued about the party.

He reddened while he told himself that,,
after all, he had never affected any warmer
feeling than friendship for her. It had
been a very pleasant friendship, and he
wished their acquaintance to continue on its
present basis. She had always acted like a
friend towards him, and he ought to try
and show his gratitude.

It was a relief to find that Wengern and
Christen were not at the table d'hote.
There had been a crowd of new arrivals,
and Engemann found his usual place occupied.
He was moved too far away from
Captain Loigerot to give an opportunity of
talking to him.

The young fellow left the table early. He

was anxious not to miss Madame Carouse, and
it was possible that some of these new-comers,
many of whom were ladies, might wish to
speak to her as soon as dinner was quite over.

Madame Carouse on her part was anxiously
waiting for the young fellow. She felt certain
he would come, and, although she had
resolved to receive him coldly, she could not
banish the gladness that sounded in her voice
and smiled at him from her eyes and lips.

I am glad to see you, monsieur." Then
she straightened her lips, and tried to
remember his avoidance of her, and to
show that she remembered it.

** You can not be more glad than I am,
madame." He kept the soft hand in his
warm clasp an instant. '' It seems so long
since I have seen you. I have come to look
for you twice, but you were absent."

This news relieved her; she was so
glad, so very glad, to be able to forgive

him at once. Engemann felt that he had
never seen so lovely an expression in her
as in the look she gave him now.

** I am very sorry I missed you, and I
feel guilty respecting you, monsieur. I
owe you an apology."

There was, he thought, a touching penitence
in her rich voice.

** I can hardly fancy that, madame, you
can never owe me anything ; the debt is, I
assure you, on my side."

She had been standing while she talked
to him, and he had remained near the doorway.
Now, with a rapid glance at the
clock opposite her, she pointed to a chair
just behind the door which opened towards
her sofa.

I am going to tell you my crime "  she
seated herself, and smiled with happiness
when she saw that he followed her example
** the truth is that I invited a few friends

last night. I feel you may justly wonder
why I should leave you out." She paused,
and swiftly glanced at him, but his face
only showed deep attention. 'The truth
is," she went on, '* I had a little plan in my
mind with which your presence would have
interfered."

Really ? I am interested."

Engemann felt puzzled, troubled too,
without finding out the reason ; for, it has
been already said, his perception was not
rapid.

*you have, I think, seen Mademoiselle
Peyrolles, the young relation who has come
to live with Madame Boileau ? "

Engemann felt it a little difficult to
keep his eyes steady under her gaze, she
looked at him so keenly ; he merely bent
his head in answer.

** Have you seen her lately, monsieur ? "

The tone of her voice roused him, it was

VOL. II. P

so metallic, so different from lier usual way
of speaking.

Yes," he said. " I got a glimpse of her
just now as I passed the shop, but I can
hardly say I saw her, her face was buried ina
nosegay," he added, with a smile ; somehow
it seemed to him unnecessary to tell
the widow about his intimacy with Marie.

Madame Carouse got up quickly and
went to the window, as if she thought someone
was waiting for her there. She could
hardly restrain herself, she felt stung almost
to an outburst of jealous anger by Kudolf's
avowal that he actually cared to look at
Marie.

In a moment, however, she saw that his
confession had made it easier for her to tell
her news. She turned on him with a bright
smile  the clock warned her that the table
d'hote was nearly over ; she must not delay.

You met Captain Loigerot with a nosegay,

I think ? " she said, fixing her eyes on
his face.

Engemann laughed. " Yes ; I saw him
making a sight of himself, carrying an enormous
nosegay ; he looked ridiculous." But
as he spoke he remembered Marie bending
over the flowers, and his laughter suddenly
ended.

''Ah! do not laugh at our captain. I
admire his simple devotion; it is so rare;
but I forgot that you are not in his secret.
Did he tell you to whom he was carrying
those flowers ? "

She grew pale and then red as she spoke,
while she kept her eyes intently fixed on him.

Engemann's troubled look had changed,
his blue eyes gleamed with anger  yes,
anger  there could be no mistake about
the expression that darkened them.

"Do you mean to say ' he began.

Madame Carouse raised her eyebrows

p 2

slightly; she was listening to the slam of
the doors above ; the footsteps of diners
were coming down the stone staircase.

I will tell you, because I am sure you
are discreet. I mean that Captain Loigerot
greatly admires this poor little girl, and
has, in short, declared to Madame Boileau
his wish to marry her. I need hardly say
that the young person is very glad and
very grateful. Surely you will not now call
this attention of the captain to his fiancee
ridiculous ? "

'rit is much worse than ridiculous ; it is
monstrous," Engemann said, rudely breaking
in on her speech. " Old fool ! he is old
enough to be her father."

Though his words stabbed her, she did not
betray herself; she gave him a pitying smile.

That is how it looks to you and to me ;
there seems to be too much difference of
years between them ; but it is not surprising

to find that things appear quite differently
when viewed under a different light. I
could tell you, monsieur, how, once upon
a time, a young girl"  a buzz of voices
sounded outside  " no, not now, monsieur."
She sighed and went on quickly. " It is
plain, however, that this poor little shop-girl
does not feel the disparity of age ; she
does not think our friend at all ridiculous,
I assure you. You should have seen how
pleased she was last night at my little
party ; she looked charming, though, indeed,
she had not a word for any one else
but her admirer ; she sat beside him, apart
from us all, and they were talking and
laughing all the evening. I heard him
ask her if he might offer her some flowers,
and when they went away he took her home."
Kudolf rose ; he could not trust himself
to answer. He heard steps coming nearer
and nearer along the passage ; next moment

the round, beaming face of Captain Loigerot
appeared in the doorway.

Congratulate him," the widow whispered.

Not now," Engemann answered, in the
same tone ; *' I will take another opportunity.
Good evening, madame." He
nodded to Loigerot and passed out of sight.

"Well, madame, it goes well  very well."
The captain was rubbing his hands, and
looking broader and more beaming than
ever. Then, recollecting himself : *' I hope
you have recovered from last night's
fatigues, madame."

"Perfectly, I thank you." She looked
over his head ; she was thankful to see
Moritz advancing to her window with a tall,
high-nosed elderly English spinster, who
looked capable of walking over the captain.
'monsieur," said Madame Carouse,
pardon me, I will not detain you. I have
the honour of wishing you good evening."

THE Captain TO THE Rescue.

* Oh, how this spring of love resemble
The uncertain glory of an April day ;
Which now sheds all the beauty of the sun,
And by-and-hy a cloud takes all away ! "

In nature there's no blemish but the mind,
None can be called deformed but the unkind.
Virtue is beauty ; but the beauteous evil,
Are empty trunks, o'er flourished by the devil. '

Shakespeare.

Captain Loigerot had returned to the "Ked
Glove " later, and had chatted pleasantly to
Marie and to the old woman ; but when he
took his leave he bent over the girl's hand
and kissed it with effusion.

At this Marie grew red till her eyes

seemed scorched by her flaming cheeks, and
then she looked at Madame Boileau ; but
the old woman turned her back on her, and
quickly followed the captain out of the shop.
She stood talking to him on the doorstep ;
and then she went in next door to pay a
visit to her friend Madame Wengern. When
she came back she presented Marie with
two frosted cakes which, she said, the mistress
of the cake shop had sent her. She
made no remark about the packet of sweets
under her arm, which had really been given
her for her "little cousin," but which she
intended to appropriate. Madame Boileau
considered that Marie was getting more
than was good for her  there was no need
to spoil her. She had intended to give the
girl a few hints when she came in with
regard to her behaviour toward the captain ;
but as she looked in Marie's face she changed
her mind, and at once retreated to her parlour.

Marie had been so used to sympathy that
if Madame Boileau had shown her any
affection she would now have gone to her
for counsel ; but the girl was so young and
inexperienced that she had a dread of ridicule,
and she had not been long enough
accustomed to her old cousin's repelling
ways to have overcome the timidity they
had created.

By the time they met at supper, Marie
had decided not to confide her vexation to
her cousin.

I must depend on myself'* she thought ;;
**I am old enough. After all, the old captain
meant no harm. It may be a way he has.
I dare say it is only because no one ever
kissed my hand before that I mind so
much ; but I did mind ; " she ended with a
little shiver of disgust.

Next morning she would not go out ta
the Mtinze Terrasse to gaze at her beloved

mountains, she so feared to meet the
captain there.

The flowers, which she had left by
Madame Boileau's advice on the counter
of the shop, seemed, when she reached the
Red Glove," to give her a loving welcome
and, at the same time, to reproach her for
her ingratitude.

She wished now she had gone out to look
at the mountains. The morning was so
bright and clear that they would have been
plainly visible. She dusted her counter
and Madame Boileau's desk and the
shelves and boxes, and then she sat down
and enjoyed the sight of her nosegay
Some of the roses had opened since yesterday,
and were yet more beautiful, while the
fragrance of all seemed to turn the dull,
commonplace shop into a sort of paradise.

Marie drew one half-opened pink rose
gently from the rest, and fastened it near

her throat so that she could smell it. She did
not realise the sudden brightening it gave to
her poor brown gown, and how charmingly
it matched the delicate colour in her cheek.

When Madame Boileau came to call her
in to breakfast, she exclaimed loudly :

How beautiful those flowers are still !
How sweet they smell 1 Mercy, Marie, you
are fortunate, it is not every girl who meets
with such attention; but then he is wealthy,
the captain is'' she went on, as she saw
Marie listening. '* He has a country house,
and a garden, and an orchard, and cornfields,
and several vineyards besides."

** And is his garden near Berne ? " Marie's
eyes sparkled. *' Do you think, madame,"
she went on timidly, '' that those beautiful
powers came from his own garden ? "

Madame Boileau shrugged her shoulders,
and pushed out her lower lip. " You
little simpleton ! Come to breakfast," she

said, in so derisive a tone that Marie shrank
into herself with conscious ignorance.

As soon as she was seated at breakfast,
Madame Boileau went on, with her mouth
full of roll : ' Why, child, you must begin
to learn the value of things. Such flowers
as those the captain has given you are not
ever grown out of doors ; the roses may be,
but the delicate ones come from a glasshouse,
and I will be bound the carnations
grow under shelter. Out of his garden !
You have only to look at the arrangement of
the nosegay to be sure that the captain paid
a pretty price for it  five or six francs, I'll
wager. I do not consider you thanked him
half enough," she said, plunging her spoon
into a brown-looking mass, which she called
pear marmalade, but which Marie thought
tasted very nasty. It was, however, reputed
wholesomeness itsavedbutter and honey, and
Marie had learned by this time that she was
expected to eat it. She did not answer the old

woman's reproach ; she sat trying to decide
whether she had been wanting in gratitude to
the captain, for she was not disposed at once
to take Madame Boileau's view of a subject.

By dinner-time she had come to the
conclusion that she would not thank the
captain again, but that she would be extra
kind to him on his next visit. She did not
like the thought that he had spent so much
money on her ; but, all the same, it was
extremely kind of him to have tried to give
her pleasure.

No one she knew came this afternoon to
the " Red Glove." Marie had her flowers to
look at, and a few strangers came in to buy
gloves ; but the girl was happy and full of
pleasant anticipation, for ]madame Boileau
had promised to take her tomorrow to the
Schanzli. That too would be a pleasure
suggested by the kind captain. It seemed
to Marie that his influence must have had
something to do with the extraordinary

change that had taken place in Madame
Boileau. She was certainly not lovable,
but she had left off scolding and frowning ;
she did not say the cruel, bitter things
which had at first frozen the girl into a dull
silence foreign to her nature. Just now the
old woman had even smiled when she came
into the shop.

Go and get me some snuff with this,
there is a good child," she said, and she put
-some money into Marie's hand.

Marie bought the snuff, and coming back
she wondered whether Monsieur Engemann
would go to the Schanzli tomorrow. She
had not seen him since yesterday morning,
and she had thought of him all day. His
absence from the soiree had convinced her
that Madame Boileau had made a mistake.
She was so glad he was not going to marry
Madame Carouse. In a very short time
the girl had discovered that her cousin was

careless about truth, and smilingly she told
herself that Madame Boileau had perhaps
got up this little deception to prevent her
from becoming interested in the young
lodger. Certainly, as Marie had owned to
herself, the idea that Monsieur Engemann
was going to marry a rich woman older
than himself, had disturbed the opinion she
had formed of him last Sunday at the bear-pit.
But since then, each time she had
seen him, his manner had been kinder ; and
yesterday there had been in it something
special, quite different from the manner of
any one else, and certainly she liked him
better than any one she had ever seen.

And he does not think me a child, as
the Sisters did. He is my friend, my first
real friend."

She blushed with pleasure as she opened
the shop-door, and stood stUl. It seemed
as if her wish had created its fulfilment.

VOL. II. Q

Monsieur Engemann was standing beside
the counter, looking fixedly at the captain's
nosegay.

Marie's heart beat quickly ; she did not
know how tell-tale her face was. In truth,
her heart was looking out at her eyes, and
if Rudolf had not been blinded by jealous
anofer, he would have read truth and seen
love in them. But he was beside himself
with anger, and he attributed her smiling
welcome to vanity, to a mere desire to
attract. Madame Carouse's news had
torn a veil from his consciousness, and
his own anger had taught him that he
loved Marie. Never before had he felt
towards a woman as he now did for this
callous, mercenary girl, who was going to
sell herself to Loigerot. He had felt an
absolute need of self-restraint, he had not
slept, and he had scarcely spoken to anyone
all day. His companions decided that

the widow had '' given him the sack," and
that 'the disappointment had upset his
liver ; " for he could not eat his breakfast ;
and when he reached the bank he looked
wretchedly ill. At last reaction came ; he
made up his mind that he was a fool to
believe in the report of others. He resolved
to q;o to the " Red Glove " and ask
Marie if she really had promised herself to
the captain ; but when he reached the shop
his resolve lost its firmness.

By what right could 'he ask such a
question ? He had given Marie no cause
to suppose he loved her  if, indeed, he had
really loved her before he heard this news.
He had felt without owning it that there
was a singular sympathy between them, and
that she understood him ; and it was his
faith in her liking for him that had made it
so impossible for him to believe that she
could promise herself to Loigerot ; he went

Q 2

into the shop which the old woman had just
quitted, and the sight of the nosegay in its
place of honour on the counter was a shock
to him. And then came Marie smiling at
him in the sweet, frank way which he had
considered so fresh and innocent.

*' I have the honour of saying good day,
mademoiselle ; " and he pulled off his hat
ceremoniously.

Marie wondered why he did not shake
hands. The sudden glow that had come
at sight of him turned cold, and left her
timid. There was a change in him, but
she could not guess at its cause. She
thought the best way would be to ask if
she had vexed him. She looked up, and
then, before she could speak, she saw that
his eyes were fixed angrily on her nosegay.
In her fear she uttered the worst words she
could have chosen :

"Are not my flowers beautiful, monsieur'*

She looked conscious and shy as she held
up the vase that he might smell the roses.

'beautiful! Oh yes  beautiful." He drew
away. *' I do not care much for them," he
said, and he walked across the shop.

Marie stood pale and disconcerted by
his abruptness, and Madame Boileau came
bustling forward from the inner room.

Eudolf did not see her at first. He stood
battling with his answer : in his heart he was
callings Marie an artful flirt, nothing better
than any other ordinary shop-girl. If she
did not mean to encourage the captain, she
would not cherish his gifts. He longed to
unmask her, and tell her what he thought
of her conduct. Heavens ! he saw now she
was wearing: one of those accursed roses at
her throat.

Good morning, monsieur," the well-known
harsh voice said at his elbow.
How well you look to-day ! Do you

think we shall have a fine day tomorrow,
monsieur ? I hope so, for I nm going in
the evening to the Schitnzli with Marie, and
then we shall see the sun set on the Alps."

I hope the weather may be as fine as
you wish, madam e." Engemann did not
look at Marie, but he saw that she was
bending over the obnoxious nosegay ; her
face was actually hidden by the blossoms.
By Heaven ! she is kissing those flowers
under my eyes," the angry young fellow
said to himself, *' little coquette."

Marie had begun to cry with vexation ;
she was sure now that Monsieur Enoemann
was angry with her, and she should never
know the reason of his anger. She could
not ask him before Madame Boileau, she
had lost the chance of an explanation with
him ; he would go away still displeased
with her. She felt desperate.

You are very kind," she heard ]madame

Boileau say, in answer to his wish ; '* but
1 think, you, monsieur, have also a special
reason for wishing it may be a fine Sunday."

Marie saw how slyly the old woman
looked at Monsieur Engemann.

** I, madame ? Oh, yes ; I am going to
Thun with Monsieur and Madame Kiesen."

The girl again bent her face into the
flowers, and listened intently.

Madame Boileau laughed. "Aha!
monsieur, pardon me, wee have heard all
about it : wee know who besides Monsieur
and Madame Eiesen, is going to Thun with
you, and we wish the happy pair a happy
day ; do not we, child ? "

Marie looked up, puzzled, while Enge-
mann, moved by a sudden impulse, turned
and fixed his eyes on her.

She forced a smile.

Yes," she said simply. " I hope you
will have good weather. I have heard

that Thun is beautiful ; is it not,
monsieur ? "

Eudolf asked himself what she meant
by this.

Madame Boileau stood fidgeting, with
an anxious look on her face ; then she
looked out of window and she saw the captain
pass ; she moved quickly to the shop-door
and beckoned eagerly to Loigerot. She
guessed that he intended to go up to his
rooms before he presented himself.

*come in, monsieur; come at once, you
are wanted."

It seemed to the mistress of the " Eed
Glove " that Monsieur Engemann was
looking at Marie in a way she had not
expected, and that the captain's presence
at such a juncture would help to put
matters on a right footing. Something
seemed to be going on that she did not
understand.

Meantime Monsieur Engemann answered
the girl's question.

"Yes, mademoiselle, Thun is beautiful."
His voice was hoarse, and he stopped to
clear his throat before he went on, then
he looked at the nosegay as he spoke :
'I wish you happiness also," he said
bitterly. "You love flowers, I see."

His tone frightened her again. "Why
is he so severe ? " she thought. In a timid
voice she said : ** Monsieur, I "

She raised her eyes to his just as
Madame Boileau came back with the
captain at her heels.

Loiojerot bowed all round : then he
went and stood between his tall friend
and Marie, and the girl felt that her last
hope was over. A sudden feeling of dislike
made her turn away from the captain, but
to Engemann this appeared natural confusion
at the sight of her lover.

"Aha, my friend," the captain said,
smiling, " I have heard news about you,
great news ; I congratulate you." He
shook his head, and tried to look roguish.
I hope you and your charming widow
will have a fine day at Thun tomorrow.
You are a lucky fellow,
Morbleu ! you have thrown double sixes.'
He laughed. Then he edged himself
closer, and said in a lower voice: "And
I too  am / not a lucky fellow ? Do you
not congratulate me, my friend ? "

He pointed to Marie, and laid his finger
on his coarse moustache.

Nonsense ! nonsense ! I don't know
what you mean."

Engemann pushed past him impatiently
and walked out of the shop, while Marie
stood pressing one hand on her heart. She
felt bewildered ; she could not understand
the meaning of the talk she had heard,
unless, indeed, it meant that Madame

Boileau had been right after all about
Madame Carouse and Monsieur Engemann.

The captain laughed loudly.

"He's off like a shell, madame. Well,
well, he cannot stand a joke about her. But
it will be an excellent marriage ; he and
our beautiful widow will make a fine
couple. I knew fast enough what all those
private talks over Madame Carouse's desk
would end io. From what Kiesen says,
I fancy the matter is as good as settled."

Marie stood violently trembling. She
could not tell what ailed her, but she
longed to run away and hide herself. She
scarcely heard Madame Boileau say :

*' Yes, they are well matched  could not
be better."

The captain walked across the shop, his
hands stuffed into his pockets, while Madame
Boileau regaled herself with a large pinch
of snuff.

I am not quick in a general way,"

Loigerot said, 'but I have had my suspicions
for some time past. I have always had a
keen eye for this sort of thing. Well,
Engemann is a worthy young fellow, and
he will make a devoted husband ; and
she is rich and handsome. Does not
mademoiselle consider Madame Carouse
handsome ? " He went up to Marie and
gave her a loving glance.

Her eyes stared wildly as she looked at
him. " I  oh yes, monsieur, I think so. If
he would only go!" she thought desperately.
** I must run away if he stands there staring
at me in that stupid way. I don't like him
half as well as I did at the party''

The captain turned pompously to
Madame Boileau.

May I be permitted," he said gravely,
*' to salute mademoiselle ? "

The old woman nodded and smiled, but
she answered in a whisper :

*' Only her hand, monsieur. She is not
very well to-day, but take no notice."

He went up to Marie and took her hand.
As he bent his head to kiss it, she pulled
it away. He looked at her ; then he gave
her an adoring smile.

*' Sweet and shy, like a dove," he murmured.
" Ah, she is an angel ! "

Then he went back to Madame Boileau,
while the girl said to herself:

'* What does it all mean ?  oh, what does
it mean ? "

"Madame"  the captain spoke pompously
 "I wish to attend you and
mademoiselle to high mass tomorrow. I
aw  propose to myself to call in order
to escort you. Au revoir, madame, a
demain, mademoiselle." He made many
bows, and then, kissing his fingers to
Marie, he departed.

AT THUN.

"Full many a glorious morning have I seen
Flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye,

Kissing with golden face the meadows green,
Gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy ;

TV TT "v TV tF 'nF

Even so my sun one early morn did shine

With all-triumphant splendour on my brow ;
But out, alack ! he was but one hour mine.

The region cloud hath masked him from me now.
Yet him for this my love no whit disdained ;
Suns of the world may stain when Heaven's sun
stained."

Shakespeare.

There was no mistake about the sunshine.
It blazed down with an intense, scorching-radiance.
It was now about ten o'clock,
so one could give a tolerably correct guess
as to the extent of the sun's power a few

hours later. The arcades in front of the
houses in the long street of Berne partly-baffled
it, but through the openings it shone
fiercely on every person and thing that
came in its way ; the atmosphere seemed
to throb with the force of its rays ; they
rejoiced the broad face of the clock on
the old tower beside the hotel ; the hand
on the dial glittered as if it had been
newly gilt ; the red ogre on the Kindles
fountain looked ruddier and uglier
than ever, and the water in the basin
below him felt tepid.

At this moment Monsieur and Madame
Risen emerged from the arcade on the
same side of the street as the Hotel
Beauregard ; they actually ran across the
open space which intervened to escape
the scorching heat, for though each of
them carried a brown holland, green-lined
sunshade, they had neglected to open these.

"MeinGott!"  Rieseii stopped to wipe
his face  '* this is too much; if there were
not an awning to the boat we could not
venture on the lake to-day. Aha ! good
morning, Monsieur Engemann. Am I nota
true prophet ? Is the day fine enough
to please you ? "

Entjemann was standing in the hotel
entrance, he nodded and smiled, and then
he greeted Madame Risen.

So glad to see you look so well I " she
said, ** what a thing it is to be young and
handsome." Her dull gray face was full of
effusive politeness as she shook hands. To
herself, as she led the way into the hotel
and up the stairs, she was saying : " Poor
young fellow ! a regular victim to that vain
widow and she will get tired of him ; as
soon as they are married she will look out
for a fresh admirer  that she will : I know
her, she never will leave Lorenz alone."

Looking up, she saw her hostess standing
at the open door of the salle-manger, and
instantly the most adoring smile spread
over Madame Kiesen's face.

*how charming you look to-day, dear
Madame Carouse ! " she said.

And it was true ; Madame Carouse
looked more than usually attractive. She
wore a large black hat which threw a
shadow over her face, and increased its
bewitching charm.

The salle at this hour was vacant ;
visitors breakfasted either in their rooms
or in the breakfast-room below, and
Madame Carouse led the way to the
coolest corner of the long room. Here
was a round table spread for four, and
crowned with a glowing pyramid of peaches
and grapes.

Eiesen's grave face beamed at the sight,
and he licked his colourless lips.

VOL. II. R

I believe, my friends "  he looked at
the widow  " I may call myself the commander
of this expedition, and I give you
all notice that if we mean to travel by the
eleven o'clock train we have no time to
spare. We must not talk while we eat. It
must all be dumb-show ; plenty of time for
talk later on."

** Do but listen to Lorenz," his wife
said mockingly, "and he is the one who
is sure to talk with his mouth full. I tell
him he will choke himself some day."

The clock-maker might have spared his
warnings. Neither Madame Carouoe nor
Rudolf Engemann were inclined to talk. The
widow's thoughts were full of words which
she fully hoped to speak by-and-by. If
she did not speak them, life would be very
dreary, empty of the hope that had kept
her" thoughts fixed so anxiously on this day.
She had so long-ed for it to come, and now

at last it was here, and she and Eudolf
Engemann were to spend it together.

Her blood ran riotously through her
veins ; she dared not trust herself to talk.
Her guests were drinking champagne, but
she scarcely sipped at the glass which
Moritz had filled for her. She could have
laughed for joy; but this was only a part
of her mood ; it was as varied as the effect
of the sunshine on the arcades, and the
shadowed spaces between them. What if
the day proved a failure ! She could not
be sure that Eudolf Eno;emann cared for its
enjoyment, except as a holiday, not at all
because it involved companionship with her.
Perhaps she looked more beautiful in this
part of her mood as she leaned back full of
pensive grace, her dark eyes veiled by the
long, curving lashes. She was too much
absorbed to wonder at Engemann's silence,
which, by the observing clock-maker and

R 2

his wife, was chiefly attributed to the young
fellow's wish to enjoy his excellent breakfast.

Enoemann ate and drank like a machine ;
his ideas were still in the confused state
which had followed his sudden enlightenment
about Marie. Besides the pain which
Madame Carouse had inflicted by her news
he had suffered another shock. Over andover
again he had sternly asked himself when
he came out of the glove shop yesterday
what he meant by being such a fool, and
the only clear idea that manifested itself in
the sort of mental chaos which had settled
on him like a pall, was, that he loved this
trifling, shallow girl, that her image would
haunt his life, and that she had sold herself
to Loigerot.

Like many another man who perceives
slowly and feels strongly, Rudolf had been
blind and unconscious while the poison or
magic  call it which you please  had been

quietly and surely doing its work. Too
simple to indulge in self-study, he had not
guessed at his power of winning love.
Even the assurances he had received from
others, that he could win the widow if he
chose to try, had never dwelt in his mind.
So far as regarded himself, love had not
presented itself objectively. He considered
marriage for him impossible. A girl suited
to him as a companion would not relish the
narrow life he could ask her to share on his
present meagre ssIsltj, and when he had
once thought this out, he had put the
idea of marriage away from him, and had
resolved to concentrate all his powers on
becoming a good man of business.

Perhaps no one quality or feeling has
been so much written about in poetry and
prose as love has, and yet, after all, no one
has ever explained it, or has succeeded in
defining its rise and progress. It remains a

perplexing mystery  lawless and yet perfect
; unreasonable and capricious in its
manifestation, yet when it is real and true,
partaking of the same divine origin as
genius, for love can only be quenched by
death. The best solution seems to be
found in the fabled love-philter. To Rudolf
and Marie, in different degrees, it seemed
as if a power beyond the influence of their
own will had taken them suddenly captive ;
in one moment, by the force of circumstances,
the true meaning of the attraction
each had felt for the other had been revealed.

The girl was cast down with shame and
sorrow at discovering that she loved a man
who belonged to another woman, and who
she feared did not love her.

Eno;emann's feelings were far more complex.
Loigerot's noisy congratulations had
fallen on deaf ears  he had heard, but he
had not grasped the meaning of the words.

The truth about Marie had stunned him,
confirming what he had persuaded himself
was only rumour and the mistaken kindness
of Madame Carouse.

While he had suffered himself to be led
on by this deceitful girl to believe in her
simplicity and candour, she had only been
scheming how to get married as soon as she
could, to free herself from her position at
the *' Eed Glove," and probably she had used
him as a bait to draw on the captain. He
remembered Wengern's words on the walk
from the Enge : 'you flirted with Boileau's
shop-girl." They had all seen it and
known it, then, and he had been a blind
idiot ; Marie, no doubt, had seen it from
the first, and then, when she knew that he
was aware of her treachery, she had affected
sorrow. He had resolved last night never
to think of her again.

He suddenly remembered this resolution,

and he turned as if he were stung, and
looked up as if he hoped to get distraction
from his companions.

There was a saloon through the foldings
at the end of the dining-room, and
the two ladies had gone there and stood
giving themselves a final look in one of the
long mirrors.

Kiesen still sat at the table, his face was
purple as the young fellow looked up, for
he had nearly swallowed a stone in his
effort to eat as many peaches as possible
while the ladies were away.

He patted Engemann's shoulder as he
recovered himself. " I give you free leave
to talk now, my friend ; you have been
very obedient. Will you conduct Madame
Risen to the railway station ? I am not
going to interfere with your rights, you
know "  he looked at the young fellow and
half-closed his deep-set eyes  *' oh, dear, no;

but 1 have to receive my final instructions
from madame for the clay's programme."

Engemann turned away to hide his annoyance.
He did not care to be joked
about Madame Carouse.

Madame Eiesen kept up such a series of
questions, as he walked with her to the
station, that she left him no time to think ;
he had to x his attention so as to answer
her correctly.

Eiesen made a good deal of unnecessary
fuss about taking the tickets and distributing
them ; there was a good deal of spitting
and spluttering from the engine ; and then
they rolled quietly out of Berne in a small
compartment of a railway carriage, with only
room for four passengers, two on each side
of the way left for the conductor to pass up
and down.

Engemann sat beside Madame Carouse,
but at first it was not easy to talk ; there

was too much noise. She was so happy
that the silence suited her. She wanted to
enjoy the bliss of being beside him, alone
with him ; for they were out of earshot of
their companions.

He was looking out of the window, and
she looked at him. How noble his face was 1
she thought ; how full of truth and manliness
; what bliss it would be to go through
life with him, his willing slave ! for in his
presence she seemed to have no will, scarcely
a separate existence ; what he willed she
felt must be her law.

It was, on the whole, well that the young
fellow did not turn round at that moment,
for her eyes were full of love, and she did
not wish him to see this, she shrank from
seeming to seek him. His manner last night
about Marie's engagement had troubled her ;
but Madame Carouse had some insight into
a man's heart. Something told her that

Eudolf Engemann was far too proud to goon
caring for a girl who had thrown him
over for Captain Loigerot ; it was also more
than possible that Monsieur Engemann had
never really cared for Marie, but only
disliked the proposed marriage because the
girl was so young.

"He looks too true to be double-faced,"
she thought ; every moment of the glowing
rose-tinted mood in which she was steeped
was lessening her doubts. " I have more
than once seen his eyes full of admiration
for me. Yes, I will give myself up to hope
and trust''

Just then Eudolf spoke.

Look, madame, the view is superb''

He put his head out of the window, and
she leaned out too ; the train had reached
the suspension-bridge high above the swift
blue-green Aar. There was the river far
below them, rushing on between lofty

grassed banks fringed with alleys of tall
poplars; some women were hanging clothes
to dry on a line that reached from tree to
tree, and the linen gleamed in the sunshine
that gilded the river. In the stream
were ,carts drawn by powerful - looking
horses ; men, with huge boots reaching to
their middle, were shovelling stone from
the river-bed into the carts. The houses
and churches of Berne showed pleasantly
among the tall trees on the top of the
right bank. As the eye travelled on beyond
the river, it stopped at a line of
dazzling silver in the sky. The giant
snow mountains for once showed themselves
without a cloud to break the
magnificent outline of their range ; the
delicate shadows that lay on them here and
there only served to add intensity to their
silvery lustre, but these shadows were as
full of colour as if reflected from a rainbow.

Ah ! " a deep sigh came unconsciously
from Engemann.

Madame Carouse had not spoken ; she
was too happy in the oneness which this
silent gaze had created ; she felt as if
she were seeing with his eyes. The wind
which ruffled the hair on her forehead
brought Engemann's deep breathing to
her cheek. She was looking* her delight
and admiration, but this sigh made her
forget self; it gave her the key she had
been seeking. Till now there had been
a barrier fencing her off from access to
his feelings ; it seemed to her, as his
handsome blue eyes grew almost black
at this glorious spectacle, that she could
see the heart-stir of which it was the manifestation
: he worshipped the beautiful.

She closed her eyes softly, for big tears
sprang into them as the thought came.
At last her happiness was near.

When she looked again, the dazzling
vision had disappeared. She drew in her
head and sat down. There was another
peep as they passed the Schanzli, and then
the mountains vanished.

Madame Eiesen's cackle and her husband's
dry little answers made themselves
heard from time to time, but the widow
and her companion where silent.

At last she turned to him. " You have
climbed some of those mountains, have
you not, monsieur ? You Swiss are so brave
and adventurous."

*' I have only been up the Molest, our
big mountain near Fribourg, but it is not
much of a climb. No, madame ; my life
has been very tame and commonplace."

'Ah, but"  her eyes glowed with admiration
 '' I am sure it has been more
stirring than mine has been : I have lived
like a caged bird ever since I can remember."

You, madame ! Is it possible ? "
He looked at her with interest and
astonishment. Surely this beautiful, self-possessed
woman must have seen more
of the world than he had. Just now
her face was full of varied expression.
Adolf felt as if he were reading a story
in it.  Then you have not travelled ?
Should you like to travel ? '' he said, as
she shook her head in answer to his first
question. He began to feel that it was
very soothing to his sore, perplexed feelings
to bask in the sunshine her beautiful eyes
were shedding on his face  sunshine without
any bitterness to turn it into delusive
mockery.

If travelling would be like this journey,
then I should love it'' She checked herself,
and added quickly: 'I mean that
to-day is such perfect holiday, such a
change from my usual life. I have no

fear that Moritz will come to me with a
grave face to tell me that the chef is ill,
or else that good bedrooms are wanted at
once, and that not one is vacant. Ah, mon
Dieu ! " she laughed gaily. " Pardon me ;
but you see the bird is out of the cage
to-day, monsieur, so you must expect it to
be a little wild."

*' You will always be charming." He
could not help saying this ; but she thought
the words came from his heart, and sLe
looked radiant with happiness ; it shone
in her eyes and glowed on her lips and
cheeks. *' I suppose travelling must be
delightful," he went on, ' or people would
not travel as they do for pleasure."

Then they drifted into silence again.

But Kudolf felt still more soothed ; he
began to look forward to their arrival at
Thun. It was a relief to be able to keep
his thoughts so easily away from Marie.

Monsieur Eiesen had strained his ears to
listen to their talk, but he had only succeeded
in hearing disjointed words. He had
given his wife captious or cynical answers,
sand she was dumb now ; she felt vexed
with his unkindness. The poor woman too
well knew that her husband preferred to
look at the beautiful widow ; that she was
a bore to him this morning, and this is nota
pleasant sensation for a wife conscious
that she has always been plain, and has
lost even the charm of youth.

At last Eiesen's impatience broke loose ;
he thought he had been sufficiently discreet.
' Look out, Monsieur Engemann ; this is the
finest point, and you are missing it all."

For as they sat with their backs to the
engine, the beauty of the near approach to
Thun was lost on them.

Eudolf and Madame Carouse put their
heads out of the window, and a cry of ad-vol.

11. S

miration broke from them at the grand
view of the mountains on either side. He
turned to her, but she went on gazing.
The fresh air from the mountains ruffled
her hair and deepened the rich nectarine-like
tint on her cheeks, while her glowing dark
-eyes were half veiled by their long lashes.
As the young fellow gazed at her, he thought
how perfectly her sombre, graceful dress
suited her brilliant beauty and her lovely
figure. She raised her eyes suddenly, and
met his admiring gaze.

"You have been here before, have you
not ? "

Only once "  he put his hand to keep
this hat from being carried off by the wind 
but that day was cloudy, and I could see
little of the mountains. And you, have you
ever seen this view ? "

"Yes"  a sad expression filled her eyes,
mind they drooped  " I came once with my

husband. I do not care to recall that
journey."

Her voice sounded pathetic.

Engemann did not know what to say. He
went on looking at the mountains, but he
was thinking about Madame Carouse. He
wondered if she had loved this husband.
He supposed she had, or she would not seem
sad in speaking of time spent with him ; and
then he remembered that Monsieur Carouse
had been dead only two years. ** She
does not look like a mourner," he thoughts
as his eyes followed the lines of her elegant
dress. It was very pleasant to look at her ;
it seemed to Rudolf that beside her he was
drifting away from the sadness that had oppressed
him ; it was not conquered ; he felt
dimly that it lay in ambush ready to attack
him, and that something in his beautiful
companion shielded him from the grasp it
was ready to lay on him ; but Rudolf only

apprehended all this mistily ; he had not yet
recovered from the shock he had sustained.
This exquisite relief had come to him without
any mental effort to seek it, and the
strange power there lies in sympathy had
cast its spell over him. It was flattering to
find that Madame Carouse saw everything
as he did, and he accepted this oneness of
taste in good faith.

They were both very sorry when the train
stopped at Thun.

Kiesen would not let them pause to gaze
at the snow mountains from the platform,
and they walked up the road from the station
four abreast, admiring the charming
little town.

Soon they came to the old stone bridge.
The blue-green Aar made a deafening noise
as it rushed over a weir beneath another
quaint covered bridge. This bridge crossed
an arm of the river, which, circling round

the houses on this side, made a little island.
Chief among these houses was a large square
building, an inn arcaded on the lower storey,
and having an open court-yard within.

The high roof of the inn was crowned
with a clock and belfry. On the left,
quaint houses of many shapes and sizes
bordered the river on both sides. Some of
the eaves projected like great hoods over
the tiers of balconies below. The windowsills
were gay with flowers ; the sunshine
glittered on everything  on the white and
yellow and pink fronts of the houses, rising
one behind another till they reached the
summit of the steep hill ; on the striped
white and orange blinds ; on clothes drying
on the poles that projected from the windows
; on the children at play on the
balconies or on the quays. High up amidst
a group of dark trees showed out vividly
the fine old castle of the lords of Zahringeu,

with its square central red-roofed tower surrounded
by nouvelles ; a little way nearer,
nestling in its luxuriant church-yard, was
the pointed red spire and eight-sided tower
of the church.

They crossed the bridge, and as they
turned into the High Street Eiesen dexterously
contrived to place himself beside
Madame Carouse, and Engemann fell back
with Madame Eiesen. The young fellow
felt in spirits now to enjoy the view of
the gaily coloured, picturesque place. The
main street was singularly arranged, the
broad projecting eaves of the tall houses
cast a pleasant shade over the house fronts
and their bright orange window-blinds :
they also sheltered the paved footway
raised to the first storey on each side of
the street. This footway was bordered
with flowers and tall shrubs, which seemed
to be straining over its edge to get all

possible light and heat. Now and then the
sunshine glinted on the wares set outside
the shop-fronts on the raised footway. The
shops below, on a level with the street
itself, were of an inferior kind, and many
of them looked dingy, for they were cellars
and warehouses for the gayer shops on the
footway overhead.

Eiesen pronounced that it was much easier
to come down steps than to climb them ;
so instead of going up any of the long
stone staircases, he led the way to the end
of the street, and then, turning to the
right, conducted his party up the slope
behind the old castle till they reached the
church-yard planted with trees and flowers
on the top of the city wall.

Here Madame Carouse turned away from
the clock-maker with a pettish exclamation.

I am tired already'' she said. " You
have no mercy, Monsieur Eiesen." Then

she looked sweetly at Eudolf. ' You are
tired too, I am sure of it ; let us go and
rest in this summer-house." And Monsieur
Engemann followed his beautiful guide and
placed himself beside her on the bench
inside the summer-house.

END OF VOL. II.

CHXELBS Dickens JlVB Swans, Crystal FALAOB PBBB8.

L I B Mary

OF THE

U N 1 Verity

or Ill Noise


V.3

Mind, Body, and Estate. By F. E. M. Motley.

3 vols.

Lord Vanecourt's Daughter. By Mabel Collins.
3 vols.

Where Tempests Blow. By the Author of " Miss
Elvester's Girls," etc. 3 vols.

The Sacred Nugget, By B. L. Farjeon. Second
Edition. 3 vols.

A Prince los Darkness. By the Author of " The

House ou the Marsh," etc. 3 vols.
In Sight of Land. By Lady Duffus Hardy. 3 vols.

WARD AND DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

 fioizl

BY

KATHARINE S. MACQUOID,

Author OF " Patty," " Louisa," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

SECOND EDITION.

LONDON :

WARD AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN, W.C.

1886.

{ All Rights reserved']

What 'tis to love.
SiLVius. It is to be all made of sighs and tears ;

It is to be all made of faith and service ;

It is to be all made of fantasy.

All made of passion and all made of wishes ;

All adoration, duty and observance;

All humbleness, all patience and impatience ;

All purity, all trial."

Shakespeare.

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill,

Matt Fl tt the drink.

CHAPTER I.

A RESOLUTION . . 63

CHAPTER TI.

Prob

ON THE TERRACE OP THE SCHANZLI . 85

CHAPTER III.

STILL ON THE TERRACE 108

CHAPTER IV.
"the after-glow" 119

part 1M.ht Jig erapie.
CHAPTER I.

MISSING 145

CHAPTER II.
starlight 169

CHAPTER III.

THE captain learns THE TCHAPTER I.

A HARD FIGHT.

I have said too much unto a heart of stone,
And laid mine honour too unwary out :
There's something in me that reproves my fault ;
But such a headstrong potent fault it is,
That it but mocks reproof'*

Shakespeare.

That perception or power of appreciation
set forth in the old saying, ** Eyes and
no eyes," is surely not an altogether mental
quality ; the feelings play their part in
it, and when these are adverse to enjoyment
or weighted by some fear, they dull
all power of receptivity ; they are as
unimpressionable as unprepared glasses;

B 2

should a photographer offer these to the
sun to paint on, they remain blank ; the
sun may reflect pictures thereon, but these
can make no abiding impression.

Marie felt the pleasant warmth of the
sunshine this morning as she came along the
streets to the ' Red Glove " for breakfast,
but she had no eyes for the light and shade
on the houses and under the arcades, for
the glow of the flowers in the balconies of
the Hotel Beauregard ; she did not notice
the sparkle on the fountains and on every
salient object to which the glowing light
was wishing a good morning.

Last night Madame Boileau had parried
the girl's questions ; but Marie had
insisted on an explanation of what had
been said, and, carried away by the overwrought
feeling produced by the scene in
the glove sho), she had been vehement and
very angry. She asked her cousin again.

and again what Captain Loigerot meant
by trying to kiss her hand, but Madame
Boileau had only shrugged her shoulders
and sneered at her vehemence. At last,
ashamed and alarmed at the violence of
her agitation, Marie burst into a fit of
crying. She said she could not eat any
supper, and the old woman rejoicing that
so much food should be saved, wisely let
her go home without remonstrance.

It seems as if all temperaments have
their special uses. In the great drama
called human life we have been inclined,
perhaps formerly more than at present, to
overestimate the worth of a warm heart
as compared with a cold one ; yet there
are cases when a cold temperament is very
useful to its possessor and to others. It maybe
said there are phases in the life of each
individual when it is far pleasant and less
irritating to be treated coldly than sympathetically.

If Marie had been tenderly
questioned and petted when Captain
Loigerot left the " Red Glove," she would
have probably lost all self-control, and have
revealed all that she most wished her cousin
to remain ignorant of.

Madame Boileau's phlegm and seeming
indifference to her tears roused the girl's
pride. She felt that she was lowering
herself in her cousin's opinion by showing
feelings which the old woman could not
understand, and she was forced to believe
in Madame Boileau's ignorance of the
captain's admiration. She tried to turn
away from the sudden suspicion which
Loigerot s words had aroused, though she
could not shake off the sorrow which had
struck her down. The calm, however,
induced by the girl's belief in Madame
Boileau's ignorance and want of observation,
did not last through breakfast.

Marie felt very stupid this morning, so
much unusual emotion had caused reaction.
When she reached the '* Ked Glove " its
mistress was actually smiling ; she kissed
Marie, and remarked on the fineness of the
morning ; then she bustled forward into the
kitchen, and gave the girl a triumphant
glance as she saw her looking with surprise
at the table.

Marie beheld a most unusual sight there.
Over the edge of a white composer hung
purple and white grapes, and these supported
a glowing crown of peaches and
nectarines.

See"  Madame Boileau licked her thin
lips  *' how kind and thoughtful is Madame
Carouse. In the midst of her own happiness
she does not forget her friends." '

Marie kept her face calm, but her heart
ached dully, and it seemed to her that this
was a pain that might go on for ever. She

must hide her grief, too, from all, even from
her sympathising friends at St. Esprit. She
no longer wished to return there : how
could she own to those pure, saintly women
that she thought constantly of a man who
did not love her ?

*'Ah! even to tell them that would be
boldness'' poor Marie thought.

Her cheeks flamed as she went on thinking
what would the sweet, kind Superior
say of her " little girl," as she had always
called Marie, if she learned that Monsieur
Engemann had not even proposed friendship
for her, while she actually desired the
love of a man betrothed to another woman ;
for he had not denied the captain's assertion
about Madame Carouse, he had only,
Marie thought, resented the familiarity of
his congratulations.

*' What makes you so rosy, child ? ' said
Madame Boileau sharply. Lie had just

consulted lier watch, and she knew that
before long the captain might be expected ;
she had a good deal of way to make with
Marie before he came. The girl must be
thoroughly prepared this morning ; her
reception of her future husband must not
be left to chance. Yet the wary old woman
scarcely knew how to begin on the subject.
She knew so well that the upshot of persuasion
often depends on its first sentence.
She was looking keenly at Marie, when the
girl raised her eyes, and a clue suddenly
revealed itself to help Madame Boileau.

You should have worn your new
gown." Then she went on, without waiting
for an answer, ' We shall not have a finer
day than this, or a better opportunity for
wearing it."

** I had not thought of it," the girl said
drearily.

'* It is not too late ; finish your breakfast

quickly, you will have time to go back and
change before we start, or we can call for
you on our way. Monsieur le capitaine
will like to see you well dressed."

Marie was silent, but her face became
hotter.

I do not wish to change my gown,"
she said. *' I do not care for the captain's
opinion."

Madame Boileau stretched out her
hand and helped herself to another peach,
gobbling at it as if she meant to get
advice out of its wrinkled brown stone ;
the juice streamed over her chin, and but
for her table napkin would have reached
the front of her gown ; but while she
pulled away the skin and deposited the
red-veined stone on the edge of her plate,
she gained a few moments for reflection.
The time was so short that she felt the
only way was to take Marie by storm.

Do you know, you poor child "  there
was a pitifulness in her voice that roused
the girl's attention, it was so new  " I
feel very sorry for you ? "

Marie looked up quickly ; she read
intense scrutiny in the small, hard eyes
fixed upon her face, but she would not
wince. Unconsciously Madame Boileau
was developing this fresh, simple nature
at high pressure. All at once it came to
the girl, as by a sudden flash of knowledge,
that it was safer to believe in the
hard eyes, than in the pitying voice. She
must take good care not to betray herself.

She actually smiled into the wrinkled
face. " Don't be sorry, then, dear madame'
she spoke gaily ; "be glad that I am
economical instead of vain, though, indeed,
I hardly think that fat old captain's notice
or approval would touch any one's vanity."

'* Chut ! chut ! you are disrespectful ;

Monsieur Loigerot is not old," said Madame
Boileau ; " but I am not thinking of
your gown in that way, Marie. I  I 
well, child, I wish to spare your feelings
if I can, but perhaps it is best to be candid ;
in your place I should do all I could today
to seem gay and glad, and it maybe
if the neighbours see you going about
smiling and well-dressed, they will forget
what they know about you ; it is not nice
to be talked about and laughed at, my

gill"

Marie was not red now ; the colour that
had come so quickly fled as fear took possession
of her, and she felt suddenly cold
and trembling.

What does any one know about me ?
I do not understand you," she said, in a
dull voice, while a hundred dreads seemed
to be muttering words that her ears could
not gather.

Madame Boileau shrugged her shoulders.

'' Ah, yes, what does any one know indeed?
That is always what an imprudent girl asks.
She is like the ostrich who I have heard
tell thinks no one can see her if she hides
her head in the sand. I will tell you what
people know, Marie, it is what you have
shown them so heedlessly. You forget, silly
girl, that people have eyes as well as you, and
while you use yours to show your feelings
with, others look on and amuse themselves
with the sight. I tried to check you at
the bear-pit, but I hear you have since
then been seen talking in the street with
Monsieur Engemann when I knew nothing
about it ; you lay in wait for him, I suppose.
Then, of course, last night we could see
plainly what ailed you  at least. Monsieur
Engemann and I could see. He might
have been a little kinder to you, I will
say, but you must make excuse for him ;
I dare say you do, now you have had time
to think over his position and his hopes."

'* Oh, madame ! '* Marie cried, putting up
her hands as if to protect herself from the
storm of words. But the old woman went on :

"What a lucky man he is, riches and
beauty both waiting for him ! If I had
been you, I would have forced myself to
congratulate him, instead of letting him
see your own feelings."

The direct, merciless words robbed Marie
of all perception. She felt stabbed, struck
down ; she could only instinctively raise
a shield against her adversary ; she must,
she would, still hide her secret from her.

What do you mean," she said slowly,
when you say I lay in wait for that
gentleman ? I met Monsieur Engemann
by chance as I came here from my lodging,
just as I have met Monsieur Loigerot
several times, and Monsieur Risen too."

She stared with angry defiance at the
hard eyes that would not leave her face.

Ball ! ball ! "  the old, wrinkled woman
nodded and went on eating grapes  "you
make a good fight, Marie, and I respect you
for it. I like a girl to be brave and show a
good face when she has made a fool of herself.
Now be wise as well as brave, child.
Do not let the gossips of the Spitalgasse say
to-day : * There's that poor little fool Marie
Peyrolles going about with a sad face, and
wearing the willow because Monsieur Enge-
mann is away courting Madame Carouse'"

Marie rose up, her eyes glowed with a
strange light ; no wonder it was strange :
a new inmate had taken possession of the
girl's heart ; a feeling never yet evoked into
life by the gentle, kindly nurture which had
fostered all that was tender and sweet in her.

At that moment Marie hated Madame
Carouse with the whole strength of her
newly-kindled nature. The short, sharp
revelation of last night had taken the sheath

from her feelings, and left them ready to
stab her to the quick, ready even, she
thought, to work harm to others. She could
have struck the cruel old woman who had
thus stripped her bare to her own sight, and
had shown her, as vividly as if she had held
a mirror before her mental insight, the revelation
of her feelings which her behaviour
had made to Monsieur Engemann. She
burned with shame and sorrow. This, then,
was the explanation of his changed manner ;
he had seen her love, and pitying it, had
striven to show her that it was unwelcome,
and thrown away on him.

Marie had the romance of an unsophisticated
nature, and it is possible that if this
solution had not been offered by Madame
Boileau, she might have seen it herself,
but under another aspect ; she might
have seen it as a proof of the nobility
of Monsieur Engemann's disposition. He

would not be false to Madame Carouse, nor
would he insult her by a lenient pity for
her feelings. He had pitied her ; but he
was straightforward in all things, and therefore
he had not lost time in showing her
the truth. But Marie was writhing under
the consciousness that she had made herself
ridiculous ; she had been so overwrought
last night that she had lost count of how
she had looked and spoken, and fear as to
how much she had revealed brought exaggeration
with it to deepen her suffering.
It was an exquisite agony to fear that she
had betrayed her love ; it made her feel
that she could never again meet the eyes of
Monsieur Engemann ; and yet, as she stood
thinking, a feeling which took the form of
anger, but which was the voice of her outraged
self-respect, recalled words and looks
on his part which justified the attraction he
had possessed for her.

VOL. III. Q

"It is you who are not wise, madame.
Yes, you look shocked at my plain-speaking ;
but you irritate me, and you must take the
consequences. By what right do you say
that I am going about with a sad face for
Monsieur Engemann ? I am young, and sois
he, and young men and young women
take pleasure in speaking to one another.
Were you not young once yourself, madame?
I do not care for the gossips of the Spital-grasse,
or for Berne, they can say what they
choose. I am not likely to stay among
them. I shall go away as soon as I can
hear of another employment," she said with
flaming eyes.

Just now, drawn up to her full height,
Marie looked as grand as the beautiful
widow, and Madame Boileau felt a little
afraid of her ; but the last words set her at
ease again ; they gave her a definite cause
of quarrel.

Bah ! little fool "  she leaned back in her
chair, and looked sneeringly at Marie from
head to foot  ' one would think you were on
the stage, child, with all this fine talk. You
will go away !  Bah ! Have you forgotten
that I am your guardian, and until you are
of age you must do as I bid you? How can
you go away ? You have no money. And
no one in Berne would employ you if I refuse
to release you from your duties here ? Even
the Sisters dare not take you away from
me if I assert my claim. But I fancy you
do not feel in a mood for convent life just
now, do you, Marie ? '' She looked so keenly
at the girl that the rosy colour flew over
Marie's face in a flash of bloom.

Marie's indignation seemed to make her
taller, larger in every way, as she stretched
out her strong, well-formed hand and arm
toward Madame Boileau.

"Are you trying to make me do something

c 2

desperate ? " she said vehemently. " Oh,
how wicked you are ! "

Madame Boileau smiled contemptuously.

"On the contrary, foolish child, I am very
forbearing. I could have you put into the
reformatory for such bad behaviour ; and certainly,
if you try to run away, I shall give
instructions to the police to take you there,
you ungrateful hussy."

The old woman's rage had flashed out at
last, and it brought tears into her hard eyes.

The sight of the tears softened Marie.
'* I don't want to be ungrateful, but why do
you say cruel, bad things of me ? " Then,
worn out, she flung herself sobbing into a
chair, and covered her face with her hands.

Madame Boileau let her cry in peace.
At last she said :

Come, be reasonable. I have not said
bad things of you. On the whole I consider
you a good girl, or I should not keep

you here, Marie. But I must judge from
what I see, and I consider you have been
imprudent and unguarded. Last night you
heard of Monsieur Engemann's engagement
to Madame Carouse, and, without considering
what might be said or thought of you,
you burst out crying and sobbing like a
baby."

Marie remembered the vexation that had
caused her tears, and she knew that they
had not been only caused by the news she
had heard. She told herself bitterly that the
discovery of her own folly was too deep a
humbling to be got rid of in sudden tears.

"I cried because I was vexed with Captain
Loigerot. I  I don't like that old man, he
tries to kiss my hand."

Madame Boileau felt that her time was
come.

*'I tell you again that Captain Loigerot
is not old ; and he is well-off and well-mannered,

and any girl in Berne would be
glad to take him as a husband ." She paused.
Marie's hands had fallen in her lap; but
now her mouth opened widely, showing her
pretty, even teeth. "Yes, Marie, such a
man as he is might marry any one he chooses ;
and he has chosen you, a poor, penniless
girl; he is very fond of you, and kind to you,
and instead of feeling flattered by it, you
call him bad names."

Marie's stare relaxed ; she leaned back in
her chair and laughed out merrily.

No  no, not bad names," she said ;
but, madame, I only said he was old. What
do you mean  Captain Loigerot has chosen
me ? Oh, the poor old dear ! And is that
why he gave me the bouquet ? Why " 
she jumped up again and stood erect  "it
is absurd to talk of; he comes up to about
here "  she touched her shoulder ; " I can
see quite over the top of his bald head ; and

and he is double my age. Oh ! but it is
too amusing."

She sank down in the chair again, and
laughed till her eyes ran with tears.

Madame Boileau was surprised at the
girl's sudden change of humour, but she
was far too experienced to imagine from
this that she had conquered.

He is an excellent match, and the good
captain's kindness is unlimited," she said.
*'He found out you liked flowers, and he
took the readiest way to show you he was
devoted to pleasing you. He said to me :
She shall have a flower-garden of her own,
and a greenhouse also. She shall have
good clothes and everything that I can give
her, and she shall do nothing but enjoy herself,
if I can only please her.' "

Marie jogged the foot she had crossed
over its fellow, and made a wry face.
** And what did you answer the poor man ?"

Madame Boileau shook her head at the
scornful tone.

*' You need not mock, Marie. I told the
captain you were difficult to please, and that
I could not answer for your caprices ; and
I said he must be patient. All that was
arranged before you accepted the nosegay."

Marie smiled.

** But listen, child. The captain asked
leave to walk to church with us to-day, and
after that he wishes to escort us to the
Schanzli in the evening. Now, Marie, I
myself heard you accept this last proposal."

Well, and what if I did accept it ? "

I am going to tell you. You must look
as nice as you can. People make themselves
smart to go to the Schanzli. There will be
music there to-night ; you may as well get
ready now. Do you not see that if you change
your gown later on, the captain will have a
right to think it is done for him ? "

She looked anxiously in the girl's face,
but Marie showed no signs of yielding.

*' Go quickly, my child," the old woman
urged, " and then if the captain comes before
you return, I will take him to church,
and you will join us there."

Stop, madame "  Marie had been
thinking. " I am not going to be led into
anything against my will. If I go to
church and come out with the captain,
does it pledge me to anything ? "

Madame Boileau was growing desperate
; her temper was rising fast. The
captain would be here in ten minutes, and
she had made no impression on Marie.

"You do nothing I ask you, and you
are very deceitful. You have been
trying to impose on me, Marie," she
said angrily, " and you know it. What
right had you to accept those flowers ?
You knew fast enough what you were

doing  a beggar like you, indeed, to have
likes and dislikes ! I have been much too
forbearing. Whoever heard of a girl choosing
a husband for herself? I have chosen
you a husband, and all you have to do is to
accept him gratefully  voila."

She took a large pinch of snuff, and mentally
called herself an old fool for not having
taken this attitude earlier in the discussion.

Marie rose up.

I do not want to be ungrateful or disobedient,"
she said sadly. * I will go
and change my gown to please you ; but
I cannot marry Captain Loigerot."

Nonsense ! You must marry him, I
tell you he is as rich as he is kind. What
more can you want in a husband ? "

Marie turned away ; her face was full
of sorrow. " I cannot love him, and how
can I marry a man I do not love ? " she
said, half crying.

At that moment, she really wished
she could accept the captain ; it seemed
such an easy escape from the glove shop,
from her cousin, from Madame Carouse,
and from her misery.

Madame Boileau snapped her fingers.

Love ! bah ! I said nothing about
love. What can love have to do with
your marriage ? A girl in your position.
Marry for love, indeed ! that is a luxury that
only rich people may indulge in. I don't believe
there is such a thing except in foolish
story books. A girl like you marries fora
home, for a position, Marie, and Captain
Loigerot can give you both. You little
simpleton, do you think I married for
love ? Do you think I took Boileau for
anything except his glove shop ? "

She had to soothe herself with an extra
pinch of snuff".

Marie had reached the door of the

kitchen, and now she leaned her head
against it ; she did not want the old woman
to see her tears.

' My father and mother married because
they loved one another ; I'm sure they did."

She murmured this as if to herself,
but the old woman heard, and snorted
with rage.

And a nice pair of penniless fools they
were all through their lives. And pray what
happened ? They didn't take much by their
love, Marie. They offended all their friends "
she rapped her large-boned knuckles on
the snuff-box to keep time to her words
"and they died, as they had lived,
beggars  yes, beggars, and left you to be
brought up on charity. Don't talk to me
of your father and mother, Marie ; their
love was mere self-indulgence, it was a
crime ; and you have no reason to be grateful
to them for bringing you into the world,

and leaving you without means of support.
I should like to know what would become of
you if I died tomorrow. Fve nothing to
leave, after my funeral is paid for, I can tell
you ; you would have to starve, you ungrateful
jade."

Marie raised her tear-stained face. Once
more she stretched out her hand, but this
time the gesture was an imploring one.

Leave me alone, madame ; please let
me be till after mass ; I cannot think all ina
hurry while you are scolding me. I do
not say that I will marry Captain Loigerot ;
but I will think about what you have
said."

She went out, her head bent on her
breast. All life and hope had fled from
her movements as she walked slowly back
to her bedroom in the court at the foot of
the steps.

so THEY GLIDED ON."

Every temper, except downright insipid, is to be
animated and softened by the influence of beauty." 
Tatler.

"Les choses les plus sou hai tees n'arrivent point;

ou si elles arrivent, ce n'est ni dans le temps ni dans

les circonstances oti elles auraient fait un extreme
plaisir."  La Buyers.

Madame Carouse had sat silently gazing
at the scene before them.

The open summer-house, with pointed
red roof, in which she had invited Rudolf
to rest, was built on the top of one of two
towers, at the angles of the old city wall,
which reaches up the hill and supports and
girdles in the terrace beside the flowery

churchyard. The angle piers and roof of
the summer-house were now rosy with
clinging garlands of Virginia creeper. Just
below was the old town-wall, so 
that its gray stones only peeped
out here and there among the snapdragons
and tufts of gray-flowered grass and ox-eye
daisies ; houses clustered at the foot of the
wall, and beyond them was the exquisite
blue-green of the river ; on the left, high
above, rose the huge dark pine-covered
ridge that shelters Thun from the north
wind ; on the right the willow-trees down by
the river were silvery gray as they bent over
an island clasped by the arms of the Aar  a
curtain of trees, chiefly poplars, almost
crossed the water  and beyond was the
still, broad lake washing the feet of the
Niesen and of the grand semicircle of
mountains that seemed the advanced guards
of the snowy giants above them.

The sky was still clear on this side, and
the dazzling white of the Blumlis Alp and
the Greenhorn made a vivid contrast to the
rich green and purple of the Niesen and the
flank of another ridge that stretched out as if
to meet it; while filling up the gap with her
silver glory was the Blumlis Alp  a glory
now at midday tempered by delicate gray
shadows ; beyond, the Jungfrau, the Month,
and the Eager rose up stupendous, as if in a
kind of scorn of their lesser brethren. A
Wreath of vapour circled the Niesen ; but it
looked feathery, and as if the next gust of
wind might blow it away.

Kudolf found it hard to believe he was
gazing at sinful, sorrow-stained earth ; he
felt that this scene might be a glimpse into
heaven.

*' Surely," he said in a low voice, 'there
cannot be bad people in Thun, the sight of
all this beauty must keep them pure and
true, I fancy."

He did not look round. If he had seen
his companion's face he would have realised
the fact, so hard to grasp and yet a fact
after all, that no one sees the beautiful in
nature exactly as his fellow sees it.

While this exquisite scene had taken such
complete possession of the man that he
almost seemed winged, transported out of
all grosser affections in the contemplation
of its beauty, the woman had also looked
at it with pleasure, but the effect on her
had been different. The joy its beauty
gave her had quickened her pulses, but it
only made her long yet more impatiently
for the earthly happiness which she felt
was nearly hers. The change in Rudolf's
manner made her almost sure that he
would to-day ask her to be his wife.
Madame Carouse loved too truly not to
be timid about the love that might be
offered her in return ; but although doubt
was wounding, she told herself not to fear ;

VOL. HI. D

the man who loved beauty as ardently as
Kudolf Engemann appeared to love it,
could not fail to love her when she was
once his wife. And so her eyes had soon
left the lofty, dazzling Blumlis Alp and
its neighbours and had settled on the face
beside her  stir more beautiful to her in
that moment of exquisite enjoyment than
anything in heaven or earth could be.

Before either of them had spoken,
Eiesen's harsh voice broke into the stillness.
"My good friends, let us go, we
ought to move on, we are late as it is ;
the boat people will think we are not
coming*'

Engemann and Madame Carouse started
at the interruption ; this movement annoyed
the clock-maker and amused his wife.

*' Is it not lovely ? '* she said ; '' I see you
can hardly tear yourselves away. Ah ! that
is so natural  what it is to be young ! "

She gave a deep sigh, then, turning to her
husband, she said briskly, ** We must go
down the broad steps, Lorenz ; that is
the shortest way, you know."

They soon reached the principal flight
of steps leading down into the town, and
while Madame Eiesen stopped behind to
raise her skirt, her husband went on and
placed himself once more next Madame
Carouse. It seemed to him that in asking
Engemann to seat himself beside her, and
then remaining so long alone with this young
fellow in the summer-house, the widow had
completely thrown aside restraint, and had
treated her other companions with scant
courtesy.

Now they recrossed the bridge, and,
turning to the left, they followed the Aar,
past the garden of the quaint old Freienhof,
past a house or two nestled among close-growing
trees, then beneath a winding

D 2

avenue which cast exquisite green shadows
here and there, barred with golden sunshine
; the river that bordered one side
of the sequestered path was deepest blue-green,
into which some willow-trees reflected
themselves gayly.

Now an island parted the river into two
embracing arms, and on it was a boat-house
wreathed in vines, and these, golden as the
sun touched their leaves, painted themselves
in yellow on the still water.

Now the path diverged a little ; they
passed a vine-covered chalet so lowered in
climbing plants, that one wondered how
the outside wooden shutters could ever be
closed. Through the vine-leaves that garlanded
the windows, orange nasturtiums
and red geraniums were glowing, and over
the shed on one side a Virginia creeper had
already turned to vivid flame-colour.

Gardens with fruit-laden trees lay between

the path and the river ; and then
all at once they came to an open space, a
grassed church-yard with crosses wreathed
with flowers, and mounds covered with
loving tokens. In the midst of all a little
church reared its slender red capped tower,
the white walls so richly clad with roses
and flame-coloured leaves that under the
glowing light they seemed to burn.

A narrow path led down to the river outside
the low boundary wall of the churchyard,
and this was so covered with leaves
that the stones were invisible. Here was
a little landing-place between the churchyard
on the left, and on the right a lovely
garden gay with flowers.

A gaily-painted boat, with red cushions
and a striped orange-wandered awning, was
waiting here for its expected freight.

A strip of grass parted the church-yard
from the river, and this was bordered by

clumps of brilliant flowers interspersed with
stately hollyhocks, the blossoms on their tall
spires, crimson, yellow, and creamy white.

Engemann had walked along in too
absorbed a state to notice Madame Kiesen's
chatter. There had been something dreamlike
in the subdued light in the avenue, in
the unreal tints on the water, and then in
the sudden vision of the slender church
tower rising out of its nest of circling trees,
and its hedge of flowers beside the water.

But when they drew near the landing-place,
Madame Carouse stood still till
Rudolf came up to her. She pointed to the
many-coloured screen of hollyhocks and
tall marigolds through which showed the
river and the town, surmounted by its
castle and church, and framed by the dark
pine woods stretching on till they seemed to
reach the lake.

Yes, it is all most beautiful," said Enge-

mann, and then he offered his arm to help
Madame Carouse into the boat.

But here he was superseded. A strong
brown hand grasped the arm of Madame
Carouse, and a broad, upturned red face
showed merry blue eyes and a row of
strong white teeth.

*you are welcome, lady," the sturdy
boatman said. " I began to think you
were not coming. Attention, Aline ! " she
said to the oars woman.

By this time, Monsieur and Madame
Eiesen, Engemann, and the widow were all
seated. Just as Madame Carouse saw that
she should be compelled to take a seat beside
the clock-maker, she also saw a means
of escape.

Change with me. Monsieur Engemann,"
she said. "You and Monsieur Eiesen are
the heaviest, and I shall feel safer if you
sit together in the middle."

And Kudolf seated himself between
Kiesen and Madame Carouse. The clockmaker
scowled ; in his heart he called the
widow some very iiglj names.

The girl Aline, a young, good-looking
likeness of her mother, but equally brown
and sturdy, seated herself between a pair
of heavy oars. She was bare-headed, but
her face was tied up in white linen.

Only the toothache," the mother said,
in answer to Madame Eiesen's question.
She is not yet accustomed to the damp
from the river."

The mother, herself, standing erect in the
stern of the boat, shaded by a round, black
hat, looked completely weather-proof as she
drove her long pole into the wall of the
garden terrace, and pushed the boat out
into the stream.

Soon they had floated past the little
wall covered with flowers that reached

the water's edge, and all at once the lake
opened before them, broad and still, with
mountains rising out of it as far as eye
could reach. The higher line of snowy-alps
had veiled itself now with clouds,
and the purple pyramid-like Niesen was
only partly visible, the wreath of vapour
that had circled it reached to its top.

Niesen has got his night cap on," the
clock-maker said, " but the day may be fine
in spite of that."

The boatman did not answer ; she was
looking at the handsome couple, and she
decided in her own mind that they were
made for one another.

She had been sharp-witted enough to
understand Madame Carouse's manoeuvre in
changing her seat, she enjoyed the clockmaker's
discomfiture, and she began to talk
volubly to him so as to distract his attention
from the pair of lovers as she considered

them ; and her questioning compelled lira
to talk in return.

So they glided on ; the awning sheltered
them from the glare, but the heat was
oppressive ; the air seemed to be holding its
breath, listening for some sound to break its
stillness.

Madame Carouse raised her eyes, full of
soft languor, to her companion's face.

Is not this happiness exquisite ? " she
said, in a low voice.

"Yes, madame, it is perfect."

But Engemann did not want to talk, and
he went on dreaming. He could not have
said what his thoughts were, for there was
little sequence in them ; perhaps at that
moment he realised the enjoyment of a lotus-eater.
It seemed to him delightful to drift
silently on and on amid this ever-changing
beauty ; the only jar in it being caused by
the voices of the clock-maker and his wife.

When sometimes lie looked at his companion,
he felt that she perfectly harmonised
with her surroundings ; her eyes,
her attitude, were full of languorous
repose.

But this appearance of repose was deceptive
; there was fire under it. Already
she was chains at Enoemann's continued
silence, she could not understand his cold
reserve, and her feelings rose in protest
against it, but she resolved to leave him
to himself.

*'If he cares for me," she thought, *she
must speak."

Engemann was quite .unconscious of her
impatience, he did not dream of the passion
he had kindled; after his troubled night and
his sorrowful waking, this afternoon had
brought sweetness and peace ; he felt
steeped to the lips in blissful rest.

So they glided on.

TEMPTATION.

"Accuse me thus ; that I have scouted all,

Wherein I should your great deserts repay ;
Forgot upon your dearest love to call,

Whereto all bands do tie me day by day."

Shakespeare.

As the boat crossed the lake, Time proved
the truth of Rosalind's adage ; it travelled
at divers paces with the several persons
beneath the awning.

Kudolf Engemann was utterly unconscious
of Time's progress ; Madame Carouse
was fevered with impatience that so much
was being wasted, Madame Risen wished
to prolong it so that Lorenz might recover

his temper ; while to the clock-maker the
hours had seemed leaden-footed ever since
he and his companion had taken their places
in the train, and he gave a grunt of satisfaction
when they came in sight of Oberhofen,
with its tiny bay, ended by the projecting
point, its church, and ancient castle, with
the range of mountains for a background.

Madame Carouse roused a little when
she saw this charming picture ; to her the
time had gone by too quickly. Risen
had ceased to answer the boatman, and
there had been a long silence. Meantime
the widow had dreamed away her opportunities,
and had lost her chance of speaking
to Monsieur Engemann.

I am a simpleton," she thought ; '* what
is the use of all the trouble I have taken if
I make no use of this chance ? And yet "

She looked at Engemann, and her
courage would not come to help her ; what

could she do ? She had given him his chance
and he would not take it, she felt shy of
him, fearful of losing his good opinion if
she did more. Was he one of those men,
she wondered  she had heard of them 
who lose all the prizes of life because they
are too unready to snatch at Opportunity
as she passes before them ?

How cold and quiet he is ! " she said
to herself. 'ris it that he enjoys this
beautiful scenery so intensely, or is it ? "

She frowned and turned to look into
the water, for she had met Madame
Kiesen's eyes fixed on hers. The frown
drew those thick eyebrows together with
a threatening aspect which alarmed the
clock-maker's wife, and forced her to take
refuse in full cackle with the boatman.

Madame Carouse saw her own beautiful
face reflected in the water, and her brows
relaxed, her red lips curved into a smile.

My love makes me distrustful' she

thought. *' Marie will certainly marry the

captain, and then " She sighed, but

she did not turn to look at Rudolf. She
told herself that nowadays no man married
for love ; why did she expect him to be
different from others ? " And I have
so much besides myself to give," she said
bitterly. " But he need not be so cold, so
reserved. Ah ! it is, doubtless, my fault ;
I am so selfish, I so fear to betray my own
feelings, that I have repelled him."

She turned toward him.

Monsieur Engemann," she said softly.

Engemann started from his reverie.

Yes, madame," he answered, smiling.

She gave him back a smile, but there was
sadness in her eyes. '' Pardon me, I disturbed
you. You were thinking of something
 something very interesting ? "

She looked again into the water, and
spoke in a low voice.

I beg your pardon "  he turned to her

SO that their faces were hidden from their
companions  '*I was thinking that we
never get what we wish. It seems as if
there were always a check on the will ; even
this water leaps up against the shore, and
then it is called back." He sighed ; his
eyes were still fixed on the water : he was
uttering his thoughts aloud.

To Madame Carouse it seemed that these
words had suddenly swept away the barrier
that had held them apart ; her eyes grew
darker and more liquid, and her rich complexion
glowed more deeply as she earnestly
looked at him.

She answered, in a low and tremulous
voice : *' But is not this check, as you call
it, sometimes self-imposed ? Do we not
deceive ourselves ? You are wiser than I
am, monsieur ; but I fancy self-distrust has
before now come between a man and that
which might make his happiness."

The tender, pathetic tone touched him,
but it roused him too. He felt that something
lay hidden in her words.

What does she mean ? " he wondered,
and he felt bewildered. 'does she mean
that I have neglected my chance of pleasing
her ? . . . How handsome she looks ! . . .
Why do not I talk to her ? I am not doing
my duty." . . . *' On the contrary, madame,"
he said, "it is you who are wise and kind
also ; and this is a delightful day you are
giving us; I am so greatly enjoying it,
that I fear I have been selfishly silent ; but
I always am silent on the water."

Madame Carouse turned away abruptly.
Just the same as ever," she thought ; " he
always slips out of any personal talk, and
drifts into commonplace : how cold he
is I " Then aloud: "Monsieur Eiesen,
shall we go back now or on as far as
Gunter ? "

VOL. in. B

The clock-maker looked toward the farther
side of the lake, and shook his head
sagaciously. A bank of clouds showed
black behind the Stockholm and its range
of followers, and the upper part of the
Niesen was invisible.

"What do you think of the weather?"
the clock-maker said to the boatman.

At this she looked sideways, and she
also shook her head. " There is no telling,
monsieur ; it may come soon, or it may
not come before night, but there is rain
up there."

** It will be better to return, will it
not, madame ? " Kiesen pointed to the
heavy clouds.

I suppose so, if you think there is
rain coming ? " She spoke sullenly.

It seemed as if the clouds had settled
on her also. And, indeed, she felt that
the happiness she had so burningly looked

for had been mirage. She had been all
day with Kudolf Engemann, and yet they
would probably part at the end of it only
as good friends as usual, they would not
have come any nearer to one another.

You have enjoyed the day, I hope ? "
Kudolf said.

She looked bright and happy as she
answered, *' I ?  I have found it only too
short."

**I think so too' he said, and then she
saw him smile as he looked across the boat.

Madame Eiesen was struggling into an
enormous cloak, and, as her husband had
begun to put it on her the wrong side
out, a fretful dispute had arisen which
completely occupied the pair.

The widow turned again to Eudolf.
A holiday seldom comes into my life," she
said, "and I have feared that a holiday
with a sympathetic friend must be one of

E 2

the things I should never know ; but to-day
I have learned that almost perfect happiness
is possible."

A puzzled look came into the young
fellow's eyes  novels had not been in his
way, and he wondered at her earnest
manner; but the pathos of the last words
reached his heart.

Surely," he said, *' your life has not
been, is not always unhappy."

Madame Carouse's eyes filled with tears.
**Ah," she sighed, '*I thought 1 had at
last found a friend who had learned to
read my feelings, but sorrow makes one
exacting. Do you not think it is more
dreary, more unhappy to live alone among
others than to live actually in solitude ? "

Engemann was much moved and puzzled
by her words and manner. He saw that
somehow or other he had grieved this
deeply-interesting woman.

"Perhaps," he answered, and then he
sat in perplexed silence while the boat
was rapidly rowed toward Thun. He felt
that Madame Eiesen was looking at him,
now that she was cloaked and at rest,
and under her inquisitive eyes he could
not carry on the conversation which had
aroused his curiosity as well as his
sympathy.

The clouds had rapidly covered the sky,
and presently heavy, scattered drops began
to fall on the awning of the boat ; the
smoothness of the water was ruffled, and
the golden glow left it as the sunshine
was hidden by the fast-moving clouds.

*' We had better go right on as quickly
as possible to the landing-place near the
Freienhof," Eiesen said to the boat woman,
the storm will burst almost directly."

May I not wrap you in this ? " Kudolf
said to the widow, taking up a cloak. He

spoke so gently, with so much tender sympathy,
that once more joy and hope came
back to her.

But now the rain beat down so heavily
that talk was impossible, and by the time
they reached the landing-place the opposite
side of the river was only visible through
the sheets of rain which poured down into
the troubled, turbid water.

*take my arm," Rudolf said, and then
he hurried Madame Carouse along the
narrow covered bridge over the weir and
through the little garden to the coffee-room
of the hotel  the shortest way to the upper
floor of the quaint old house.

The rain was pouring down in a torrent
into the open court-yard of the hotel, and
the leaves of the plants climbing up the
pillars of the surrounding galleries were
already soaked with water.

The landlord's daughter, a kind-looking

graceful girl, and a tall, handsome maid in
Swiss costume begged the two ladies to
come into the kitchen and take off their
wraps before the glowing fire there.
Madame Carouse had escaped the rain
better than her companion had, and she
soon found her way to the salle, leaving
Madame Risen in full talk with the
landlord's daughter.

Rudolf Engemann was in the salle alone,
looking out of one of the broad, low windows.
The dark hill opposite, across the
river, was almost hidden by long cloud-wreaths
moving so rapidly from one point
to another that it seemed as if some battle
were being fought up there. But the young
fellow hardly noticed the strange effect
outside, he was suffering a kind of remorse
for the indifference he had shown in return
for the widow's kindness. He looked
round when the door opened, and, turning

away from the window, lie came quickly
up to Madame Carouse.

I am afraid we shall not get our walk
in the pine-wood," he said.

Should you have liked it ? I thought,"
she said, timidly, 'you had, perhaps, found
the day long enough. I feared I had bored
you with my confidences."

Engemann reddened.

'' On the contrary, I have been greatly interested
; but " he hesitated, and looked

simply into the beautiful eyes fixed on
him  *' I am not ready-witted, or much
used to talking in company, I cannot easily
put my thoughts into words ; but what you
have said about the sadness of your life
troubles me deeply."

Then I wish I had not spoken of it ;
you must forget it, my kind friend, or I
shall feel that I was selfish."

Rudolf shook his head, and as she seated

herself in one of the window recesses, lie
placed himself beside her.

"This sorrow has come upon you since
your husband died ? " he said tenderly.
"You were very young to have such a
grief laid on you."

She drew herself a little away, and the
soft glow vanished from her eyes.

No, monsieur : I must tell you the truth,
even if I lose your precious sympathy. I
I never loved my husband  I married
for a home  not for love  it is true I was
a mere girl  my husband was quite middle-aged
 I  well, I tried to do my duty ; but
when he died I could not sorrow, I could
only feel that I was free."

Engemann hardly knew what to say in
answer, but her eyes asked him to speak.

In that case," he said, " I wonder that
you, so young and beautiful as you are,
should not have married aoain."

Madame Carouse sat very erect and
looked at him with a slight smile.

*' I will tell you, my friend  for I may
call you so now  why I have remained a
widow. When I married, I knew nothing
of love ; I was an ignorant child ; my
husband gave me luxuries which were all
new to me ; but I soon tired of them, as
children tire of toys, you know. One day
he brought me home some romances, and
I read them ; then, monsieur, I learned how
two souls in perfect unison can make for
each other a heaven on earth ; then I learned
that I had myself destroyed my chance of
happiness."

Her voice had sunk lower and lower ; her
eyes were fixed on her hands, clasped in her
lap. She was looking sadly at her wedding-ring.


Eudolf, deeply stirred, bent over her,
eager to hear the end of this, the first

romance that had been confided to him by
a woman ; and, as he gazed into her
beautiful face, his pulses quickened.

Surely," he said, " a heart like yours can
never be in need of love ; there must have
been many before now who have striven to
win you."

Yes, it is true," she gave him a sudden
glance ; ' but I resolved to wait till I met
one who loved me for myself. One knows
when one is truly loved."

** You must know," he said earnestly.

She raised her eyes Suddenly, and met
his glance full of warm light ; her own fell
at once.

I know nothing," she murmured.
* What can a woman know ? She only
feels  and  loves."

The last word was scarcely audible,
and yet Eudolf heard it ; but he also
heard the door open, and he saw a group

of people come in, not only the clock-maker
and his wife, but half-a-dozen English
tourists on their way to Interlaken, grumbling
about the rain-storm which had
stopped their journey.

A RESOLUTION.

In delay there lies no plenty ;
Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty."

Shakespeare.

The church was so full when Marie reached
it that she could not find a place in the
nave, so she turned aside and knelt down
before the altar of one of the side chapels.
The poor girl was so absorbed in sorrow
that she gave little attention to the service ;
she covered her face with her hands, and
soon tears streamed between her fingers.
After a while she looked up and saw
dimly that the chapel in which she knelt

was dedicated to *' Our Lady of Sorrows'
She took comfort at this ; it seemed as if
she had been led directly to sympathy ; but
she drew a long quivering breath as she
accepted the omen. The deep stillness that
stole over her spirits made the voices at the
high altar sound far ojQf and indistinct ;
but this stillness was not mute to Marie ;
it told her to submit, it warned her that a
young girl could not venture on a life of
struggle, and issue from it unscathed ; it
told her, too, that she would serve God
better and more easily in peace than in
strife ; but still the means of obtaining this
peace in her outward life was as distasteful
to her as ever. . . . Once more she hid
her face between her hands and bent her
head in prayer.

"I am stubborn and rebellious," she
sobbed, as she knelt on in troubled
silence.

All at once lie began to wonder what
the Superior of St. Esprit would have
counselled. Well, supposing she were once
more at the convent, what had she to ask ?
Whether she should obey Madame Boileau
? And then Marie remembered the
way in which the kind Mother used to
question her on her mental troubles till
they set themselves straight ; she knew
that in this case the question would have
been asked, "Has Madame Boileau a
claim on your obedience ? '' And mechanically
she found herself answering,
"Yes, she is my employer and also my
near relative."

Marie knew that the Superior would
tell her disobedience was a sin, and at the
thought her motive for this disobedience
obtruded itself. " I disobey because I
covet the love of a man who has none forme,
who loves some one else." The words

VOL. III. F

seemed to be whispered by a serpent.
This was worse than the quietude of
her sorrow, for the serpent-whisper stung
sharply and the pain felt like poison, but
she knelt on . . . still in mental struggle.

An old man, standing not far off,
wondered at the absorbed piety of the
young girl who never once stood or sat
as others did, but knelt on like some old
devotee. He noted, too, that though she
seemed to be praying, she did not say her
rosary or open the book she had placed
on the ground beside her. . . .

The sermon was over ; the most solemn
part of the service began, but Marie took
no heed. . . . All at once the bell rang,
and she started. It rang again, three
times, and every one in the church knelt
reverently.

Marie bent lower still and tried to
worship. Now at last she was able to

fling away every thought of self and to
remember where she was. . . .

The mass was ended. Marie rose from
her knees and looked round. People were
already moving, and near her  so near in
the crowd that filled this southern aisle
that Marie wondered she had not seen her
before  was Madame Boileau ; and close
by the old woman, in the act of rising from
a chair, was Captain Loigerot. He did not
see Marie, but the girl was impressed by
the look of goodness on his face  it was
full of happy peace. She gave a little
gasp ; was this an answer to her prayer ?
If she consented to marry this kind,
amiable man, should she indeed go back to
the happy, calm life she had so little prized
at St. Esprit, but which she had learned to
regret so lovingly ? But then a flood of
unwelcome thoughts rushed in. Marie's
lips quivered and her eyes filled with

F 2

tears. . . . "But if it brings peace," she
murmured ; and she turned to follow the
crowd out of the church.

Sharp-eyed Madame Boileau had seen
Marie, and she waited near the door till
the girl approached. As Marie dipped her
fingers in the holy-water stoup the captain
stepped forward and did likewise, giving
her a silent, smiling glance, as he touched
her finger-points with his own stumpy digits.

''H'm!"

A sudden clearing of the throat made
Marie look up and become aware that
Madame Webernn, the confectioner, was
surveying her with significant eyes.

Presently they all stood together on
the pavement outside, while the scorching
sun poured down a fierce greeting on
the uncovered head of the captain as he
bowed low to Marie before offering her
his arm.

She looked at him a moment ; she
shivered, and a cold, dull feeling took
possession of her ; then she put her fingers
within the close clasp of his coat-sleeve ;
Madame Boileau took his other arm, and
they started. By that mute action the girl
told herself that she had made her surrender
; that she had consented to accept
this man for her husband, a thought.
Divine in its unselfish truth, had urged
on her decision. Her prayers had cleared
away the mist of auger which Madame
Boileau had awakened. Marie felt sure
that Monsieur Engemann wished her welland
it seemed to her that if he had discovered
her feelings towards him it must
make him happier to see her married to
a good man than left to drudge on at
the "Ked Glove," pining for the love he
could not give her.

The mental struggle she had gone

through had exhausted her, and she did
not know what the captain had talked
about till they were near home. Then
she began to listen.

Tut, tut ! Do you see it, mademoiselle ?
The day is clouding over ; it will be vexing
if our evening at the Schanzli is not bright.
There will be music and many people ;
and you would like to see the Alp-gluten,
would you not ? I am sure you would like
it, and the sky must be bright for that.
Ah ! " Here the captain managed to rub
his hands together. " That is, let me tell
you, mademoiselle, a sight which will
rejoice your heart, seen from the Schanzli."

Yes," Marie said, and she smiled.

After all, what did it matter where she
went ? She could never be happy again ;
but she could be brave, and she could try
to make others happy ; she thought this
in the exaltation to which she had brought

herself. She preferred, however, not to
meet the captain's admiring eyes more often
than she could help, and the street was so
full of people coming and going that she
had plenty of excuse for looking about her.

At last they stopped at the door of the
'* Eed Glove ; " the two elders stood still,
and they let Marie pass in before them.

I feel like a bird going in at the door
of its cage," the girl thought.

But she went on to the kitchen and
took off her hat ; then she put the backs
of her cold hands against her cheeks and
felt how burning hot they were ; she
could not see the exquisite rose-colour
that glowed on her face ; her eyelids, it
is true, were heavy, and her eyes were
languid, but Marie had rarely looked so
attractive.

Meantime Captain Loigerot was speaking
to his landlady. He had had time to

reflect upon his position, and although he
still felt rather shy of the young girl he
hoped to marry, a certain instinct warned
him that it was better to adopt a masterful
manner with Madame Boileau.

'* I may consider the affair arranged,
madame," he said, " and I may now salute
mademoiselle as my fiancee."

His little eyes twinkled greedily.

I am sure I don't know about that,"
the old woman answered. 'marie is
very young, and full of convent prejudices.
She "

The captain snapped his fingers.

*' Ta, ta, madame, we will endeavour to
overcome the convent ; in your presence,
however, be it understood."

He stood aside ceremoniously to allow
her to pass him in the narrow passage, and
Madame Boileau went into her little
sitting-room. She looked round, and then.

not choosing to expose herself to another
dispute with Marie, she went to the door,
when she had offered Captain Loigerot a
chair.

Marie, Marie," she called out. She was
saying to herself : " Will he expect breakfast
? It is certain that he has not yet
taken breakfast."

Her face lengthened, and sadness spread
over her as she pictured to herself the
treasured sweetbread and the half chicken,
now lying snugly in her cupboard, being
swallowed by the captain with the appreciation
of a man who eats well every day ;
they would be completely thrown away
on him.

Surely Marie is as one of the plagues
of Egypt to me," she said to herself. ' It
will indeed be a deliverance when the
captain takes her to himself. Marie ! " she
called again, and she tried to make her

voice pleasant, "Marie, come here, child,
you are wanted."

But Marie did not come, and Madame
Boileau felt that she must fill up the
gap of silence, lest the captain should take
offence.

"Monsieur has breakfasted ? " she asked.

No, madame, not yet "  he waved his
hand pompously  " on so important an
occasion as this, one must even derange
one's habits. Mademoiselle Marie is worth
such a sacrifice."

He looked up at the ceiling and cleared
his throat. Though he was in love, he
felt hungry, and he wished Marie would
soon appear.

Madame Boileau *s face became browner
and more puckered than usual.

Will monsieur permit me to offer him a

humble meal ? I " every word seemed

to drag itself out of her with pain.

Captain Loigerot waved his hand in refusal,
but he bowed in acknowledgment.

"A thousand thanks, madame, but my
breakfast is waiting for me at the hotel' he
said, in his bluflfest voice.

The captain rubbed his hands in self-congratulation.
He had never eaten within the
walls of the " Red Glove ; " but it seemed to
him that in accepting Madame Boileau's
hospitality even in Marie's company, he
should make a disastrous exchange for his
comfortable and ample repast at the Hotel
Beauregard.

Marie came in shyly, and stood still in the
doorway.

The captain got up. He had set down
his hat beforehand, and now he gravely
walked up to the girl, and, partly standing
on tiptoe, he said, " Permit me," and he
kissed first one rosy cheek and then the other
with infinite satisfaction.

'Mademoiselle Marie," he said, "I will do
my best to make you happy."

Madame Boileau stood open-mouthed
with wonder and curiosity at what would
happen  but wonder conquered.

For Marie did not resist the captain's
salute, or run away afterwards ; she was
quite passive. She blushed still more
deeply, and then all her newly-gained
colour left her, and she looked very white
as she sat down on a chair near the door.

The captain had turned rather red at his
own daring, but now he rubbed his hands
cheerfully.

"Monsieur must be very hungry,"
Boileau said ; she was human, after all,
and she pitied Marie at that moment.

"It is true, madame, I am hungry ; but
I had forgotten it." He turned from his
contemplation of Marie, and plunged his
hands first into the bottom of one pocket,

then of another. " And  and  I have also
forgotten  Diable ! " he muttered, " it was
not a thing to forget. Mademoiselle Marie,"
he bowed stifle, '* I wished to offer you a
token of  of friendship, but I have unfortunately
left it upstairs. If you will permit
me, I will go in search of it."

Marie looked at him fixedly. '* Certainly,
monsieur, as you please."

Her tone was as lifeless as her attitude,
but the captain admired what seemed to him
her self-possession. He had had some misgivings
about the giddiness natural to
girls, but Marie appeared to him to have
accepted her new position with the dignity
which would have been natural to Madame
Carouse.

As he left the room to go upstairs, Madame
Boileau bustled out after him, and Marie
was left alone.

While she had stood in the kitchen

nervously twisting her fingers together,
she had felt as if that which she knew lay
before her were impossible to undergo ; and
then, by a sudden wrench, she had forced
herself away from the kitchen-door against
which she had leaned, a tall, trembling
figure, clad in her pale gray gown, and
had come, as it were, recklessly into the
captain's presence.

How simple an act this so dreaded
kissing had been ! And yet . . .

For an instant her blushes had seemed
to burn into her cheeks, and then she had
grown cold as a stone. It had been a mere
formal action, and yet Marie felt as if she
could never again be the same ; she was
irrevocably parted from Monsieur Enge-
mann ; even if he were free she had put
a barrier between them ; through those
kisses she belonged to Captain Loigerot.

And now she sat still in a kind of

stupefied despair, while Madame Boileau
hurried out and followed the captain
upstairs.

"Excuse me for intruding, monsieur,
but have the goodness to listen to me fora
moment," she said, as she stood at the
open door of his sitting-room.

He did not ask her to enter. A sort of
impatient surprise met her in his small
eyes; he considered that she was impertinent
to have followed him.

At your service, madame ; but it is a
pity you should take the trouble to climb
the stairs when I intend to rejoin you below
directly. I  " and he took a small parcel
from his table, and puffed out his words
with extra effort  '' I only came to seek a
gift I wish to offer to Mademoiselle Marie."

He waited for Madame Boileau to
precede him down the stairs ; but she did
not move, she stood still fully relieved

against the white painted door, looking even
more like a brown toad than ever. *' Pardon,
madame," he said, and he stepped past her.
He was going downstairs, when he felt
pull at his coat-tails.

He turned round quickly.

'madame " he beo'an.

o

Chut ! " She put her finger to her lips.
*' Will it not be wise if monsieur has his
breakfast before he sees the child again ?
Marie is a little confused, it is all so new
to her. We will dine in monsieur's absence,
and Marie and I shall attend vespers, and
then we hope that monsieur will honour us
with a little visit, and we shall all be ready
walk to the Schiinzli."

The captain grew very red, and his
moustache bristled.

*' I  I  I "  he began to stammer with
impatience  " I cannot go away directly.
I have not yet had a word with the dear

little girl. Ma foi, madame, I cannot

leave her yet."

He turned from her abruptly, and went

down the stairs as fast as he could.

But the mistress of the " Ked Glove "

was a match for him.

Monsieur, monsieur ! " she called out ;

* will monsieur have the kindness to wait

a moment ? " Then, as he stood still, she

hurried down and stood beside him on the
landing. '*I have something to say, monsieur
"  she meant to smile, but her narrow
lips made the effort more Eke a grin 
something that cannot be called out from
storey to storey. Monsieur knows better
than I do ; he is more experienced in such
matters ; " she fixed her cunning eyes on
his face ; *' but I know what girls are, and
I fancy monsieur will not make the most of
his advantages."

Eh ?  what ? What is the meaning of

VOL. III. G

your words ? I do not know much about
girls' he said, with an abashed look which
almost upset her gravity.

*' Well, monsieur, I can explain myself,
I hope, without giving you ojQTcnce. If 1
were a handsome officer, and went courting,
I should leave the girl to think a little over
the honour I had done her by saluting
her." Then, unable to keep in her laughter
at his look of bewilderment : " Well, then,
if monsieur takes my advice  and I do know
something about girls  it is wiser, as I said
Before, to leave Marie a bit to dream over
that kiss, till she begins to want another.
Aha ! "

The captain was not convinced ; he felt
like a dog robbed of a bone.

I have left my hat in the parlour," he
said.

*A hundred pardons, monsieur, but I
took the liberty'*

And she presented him with his hat,
which she had kept hidden behind her.

Loigerot was very angry, he gulped down
a strong word with difficulty. "I shall
meet you as you come from vespers,
madame' he said stiffly. 'I have the
pleasure of saying au re voir."

When Madame Boileau had let her
lodger out, and had closed the door after
him, she grinned. ' What a besotted fool
the man is ! " she said ; then she unlocked
a side door that led from the passage into
the shop, and, crossing it noiselessly, she
peeped over the top of the green blind into
the parlour.

Marie sat where they had left her, pale
and still. Her arms hung down straight
beside her, her head was bent forward, but
there was an absolute absence of all expression
on her face.

Now that Madame Boileau had got her

G 2

own way, she felt some compassion for her
cousin.

'poor child!" she said. 'I do not
wonder; he is clumsy and ugly, and he has
no manners. But what will you ? The
bitterest of medicines is sure to be a tonic.
Bah ! why am I so silly ? In six months'
time she will have grown fond of her little
ball of a captain."

Then she stole cautiously back to the
passage, and retreated to the kitchen. She
resolved to leave Marie and her sorrow in
peace until dinner-time, and she also determined
that the dinner should be appetising
and abundant, even if her own supper
suffered in consequence.

The old glover felt in an excellent
humour. It is surprising how benevolent
we become when we have our own way.

ON THE TERRACE OP THE SCHANZLI.

*' To swallow gudgeons ere they're catched,
Aid count their chickens ere they're hatched."

Libras.

Sunday's storm has cleared the air, and
although yesterday was gray and undecided,
the sun has asserted himself again
on this Tuesday morning, and gives every
promise of a fine evening.

Rudolf Engemann tells himself this ashe
looks at some placards on the piers of
the arcades in the main street of Berne.
On these is announced a concert at the
Schanzli for this evening. Rudolf had seen

this announcement last nio;lit on his return
from Bale, where he had to go yesterday
on business for the bank, and he then
determined to get tickets for the entertainment,
and to offer one to Madame Carouse.
Now he goes into the shop indicated on the
placards, and purchases two tickets.

Going out again he meets the captain
bent on a similar errand, but Eudolf does
not care to stop and chat with him, he
contents himself with a nod, and hurries onto
breakfast at the Hotel Beauregard.

The captain stands on the doorstep of the
shop and looks after him, balancing himself
alternately on his toes and heels. He nods
his head several times, then he shakes it,
finally his hands explore his capacious
pockets and stay in them.

Poor devil ! he is hard hit. But he
will not enjoy life as I shall with my girl-wife.
Madame is certainly a fine woman.

but the difference of age is on the wrong
side," he smiles. '' Aha ! I shall have my
little duck to myself this evening. I have
not seen much of her yet ; I must get the
wedding fixed without delay  delays are
dangerous."

He looks radiant, he almost smacks his
lips as he turns to the counter and asks for
three tickets.

*' I suppose they have them given to
them at the hotels," he says, as he takes
them.

"Yes, monsieur."

Engemann has wasted his money," the
captain thinks, " but still he is on the right
track. Yes, yes, it is undoubtedly an
attention he should pay to the widow. I
do not understand his absence from the
dinner-table yesterday ; it did not look
well. One cannot be too attentive under
such circumstances ; ma foi," he gives his

pocket a slap as he places the tickets inside
it ; " it wis hard work at first with Marie,
but I fancy it will be plain sailing now.
Those kisses were very pleasant ; next time
I shall stop midway on those rosy lips."

He smacks his lips this time and goes off to
prosecute the morning walk which gives him
such a keen appetite for breakfast. He
feels impatient for the evening. The storm
had upset his plans on Sunday, and the
thunder gave Marie such a headache that
she went home to bed at a very early hour.
He had seen her yesterday, but Madame
Webernn had come into the "Eed Glove" fora
gossip, and he could only get a few words
with his shy, sweet betrothed. He took her
some fresh flowers, and she thanked him ;
and then she listened while he told her of all
she would see and hear at the Schanzli ;
but she had been very timid and silent.
Madame Boileau had whispered to him

that girls in love were always silent, and
that in his absence Marie talked of him ;
but the captain was not quite content. It
seemed to him, however, that this evening
must reward him for the self-denial he
had been forced to exercise.

The day seemed long, and he was disappointed
in his hope of a talk with Madame
Carouse. Yesterday she had been absent
from her parlour, and to-day she seemed
completely absorbed as she bent over her
desk, and the captain found it impossible
to conquer the awe with which the handsome
widow had lately inspired him. She
seemed to him so different to other women,
and he regarded Eudolf Enoemann with
increased admiration as the possessor of this
beautiful creature's affections. He dined
alone to-day so as to start in good time
for the Schanzli, and he did not see whether
Engcmann went to the widow's parlour.

Dinner over, Captain Loigerot set his hat
a little on one side, and then rolled, in his
leisurely fashion, into the street which
farther on called itself the Spitalgasse.

At the "Ked Glove" Madame Bobineauwas
in anxious expectation ; both she and Marie
were ready to start, and the old woman
feared if the waiting were prolonged Marie
would break down. Just now she had
begun to sob, only two sobs came, and
then clasping her hands, the girl forced
herself to be still.

Madame Boileau's unusual kindness
since Sunday had unnerved Marie. She
suspected that it was by Madame Boileau's
invitation that Madame Webernn had
come in yesterday evening just before the
captain appeared, so that there had been no
opportunity for private conversation, and
Marie had overheard the old woman request
Monsieur Loigerot to keep away during

business hours on Tuesdays, lest he should
be in the way of her customers. Now,
when the old woman came up to her and
kissed her on both cheeks, she had a hard
struggle to keep in her tears.

' That's a good girl," said Madame
Boileau ; " a very good girl, you have
done very well"  she took a huge pinch
of snuff and patted Marie's shoulder  " and
you are going to be so happy, dear child. I
lay awake quite a long time last night thinking
of your happiness. Behave well to
your husband, and he'll give you rings and
brooches and silk gowns, and I don't know
what besides  perhaps some Brussels lace.
Mon Dieu ! Marie, think of that."

"Do not, madame," said Marie. *'Do
not torment me."

They were waiting in the shop, and madame
had not put up the shutters lest she
should lose the chance of a late customer.

Just then the captain opened the door
and came in smiling and bowing fii-st to
Marie and then to the old woman.

*' Ah, monsieur, you are in good time."

The captain nodded to her, and going upto
Marie he took her hand, bent over it,
and kissed it.

The girl twitched her hand away with an
involuntary movement of disgust.

*' Marie," said Madame Boileau, *"'run
and fetch my blue shawl, there's a good
girl, it must be time to start."

The girl hurried away upstairs, and
Madame Boileau patted the captain's arm.

Monsieur does not mind her odd ways,
does he?" she said in her oldest tones. "No,
no, he is too wise ; she is only shy ; girls are
all a little shy at first with their lovers ; but
believe me, monsieur, it soon goes off. Men
have only got to be patient. Why, when
first I began to take snuff I used to sneeze,
and now"  she stopped and took a hug

pinch  "take no notice, Monsieur le Capitaine,
and she'll soon get used to you''

The captain fidgeted. He felt that
Madame Boileau's simile was superfluous,
but his good-nature triumphed.

No doubt you are right, madame. I
must restrain my  my ardour ; she is shy,
pretty little angel, and I like her for it.
But  how soon do you think she will get
used to me ? "

"Ah, monsieur cannot think how fond
the child really is of him, how she talks of
him ! What a thing it is to be handsome
and amiable ! Mon Dieu ! monsieur will bea
happy man."

The captain's eyes glistened, but Marie
came in with the shawl before his delight
had uttered itself. He gave the girl a
loving look as he took the shawl from her
and put it over his arm.

"Now, are we ready?" he said. "We
shall find a carriage round the corner,

ladies. I consider that the walk would be
too fatiguing, we shall have to walk up and
down a good deal when we get to the
gardens."

He offered one arm to Marie and the
other to Madame Boileau ; and they
started for the Schanzli.

The carriage set them down near the top
of the steep hill, and they walked up
through a plantation till they reached the
terrace of the Schanzli gardens.

There were plenty of gay and merry
groups already on the terrace. The band
was playing a waltz of Chopin's ; people
sat at little tables ranged along the terrace,
or walked up and down, stopping, now
and then, to chat as friends met one
another ; or to gaze over the terrace-railing
at the picturesque view of the town ;
or at the distant range of grand snow
giants now scarcely veiled by the clouds.

But the gazers were not so numerous as the
promenaders were, and most of the former
were evidently strangers to Berne, for those
who sat at the little tables sipping lemonade
and syrups were diligently studying a huge
chart of the mountains, which was passed
from one table to another.

Many of the travellers did not seem to
care about the chart ; they were bent on
drinking in the beauty of the scene ; as they
paced slowly up and down they did not
trouble themselves to identify the mountains
one from another.

Up the side of the steep hill on which
the terrace stood, were vine clad houses,
lowered among trees and glowing flowers ;
far below them the swift Aar rushed on
between its fringes of slender poplars, while
above, on the opposite side of this green
valley, lay the picturesque houses of Berne,
with the dark Minster rising from among

them against a background of green and
purple hills. Far away, stretching right
and left across the horizon, was the magnificent
range of snow mountains.

Marie stood still ; she felt spelled with
delight as she gazed on the lovely scene.
She forgot the captain and her sorrow 
everything but the picture before her. A
delicious breeze, that seemed to come straight
from the snow mountains, cooled her flushed
cheeks and blew her brown hair into her
soft, gray eyes. As she looked away from
the view to the wood behind the terrace,
she saw couples seated here and there on
benches under the trees. Two figures,
seated further off than the rest, were indistinct
in the increasing gloom. Marie
said to herself, " Some of these people are,
perhaps, happy lovers."

And then a strange feeling came at her
heart, a sort of strangling sensation, and she
looked quickly at her companions.

I think half the town is here," Madame
Boileau was saying.

"Yes, yes, I think so," the captain
answered. ** Aha, madame, they have
come here to see my happiness. Ha I ha !
ha ! " Then he turned to Marie. '' Is it
not all pretty, mademoiselle ? And the
mountains are just in the right place. I
call that a coup de theatre. Eh, Mademoiselle
Marie ? "

** It is very beautiful, monsieur," the girl
answered sadly. To herself she said : " The
mountains will soon fade out of sioht, and
then all will be gloom like my life  I have
done with sunshine."

The glamour of the scene around her had
at once vanished when she heard the captains
voice. She belonged to him now, and she
felt like a slave.

Just then some one came hurrying across
to them out of the darkness under the trees.
It was Madame Eiesen.

VOL. UI. H

'good evening, monsieur and madame.
Good evening to you, Mademoiselle Marie.
Have you met Lorenz, I wonder ? " She
tried to smile, but she was evidently vexed.
As she looked at Marie, she saw that her
hand was resting on the captain's arm. " I
want you to tell me something," she whispered
to Madame Boileau. " Can you
spare me a moment ? "

Madame Boileau took her hand from
Captain Loigerot's arm, and stood still
beside the clock-maker's wife.

"Is it true that the captain is going to
marry that charming little Marie?" she said,
in an unbelieving voice, and she nodded
towards Loigerot and his companion, as they
walked on together in advance.

Why should it not be true ? "

Madame Boileau was so indignant at
her gossip's tone that she did not turn to see
how quickly the captain was moving forward.

Loigerot seemed to himself to be treading
on air. He had at last got Marie alone
without her watchful cousin, and he felt
triumphantly happy. He was trying to get
free of Madame Boileau. As he walked
on, he was constantly receiving bows and
greetings from his acquaintance, and he
longed to announce his triumph, to say to
his friends, "This charming girl has accepted
me as a husband, congratulate me."

Is mademoiselle amused ? " he puffed out.

"Yes, monsieur." To herself Marie said:
"At least, I should be amused if I were
free. If I could only get rid of you, it
would be delightful."

The captain stopped to speak to a fat old
gentleman, whose straw hat almost swept
the ground as he took it off and bowed to
Marie.

The girl's eyes met this old fellow's leer
of admiration, and she longed to run away

H 2

from her companion. She felt a sickening
sense of degradation. Every moment seemed
to be adding publicity to her engagement,
and to be making it more real to her. She
looked desperately behind her; Madame
Boileau was whispering up into the ear of
her tall companion.

*what are you doing here alone?" she
was asking her. For the clock-maker's wife
had begun to put troublesome questions.

*'Ah!"  Madame Eiesen drew herself
up  "that is what I ask myself. When I
agreed to come to-nio;ht for the sake of
pleasing our gay widow, I imagined she
would be satisfied with Monsieur Enge-
mann's attentions. I assure you I was
walking quietly with Lorenz enjoying myself
 we had left the pair of lovers seated
under a tree  and all at once I looked round
to point out something to him, and he was
gone."

Gone back to the widow, no doubt.
Why did you not go and look for him ?
"Were you afraid of being in the way ? " the
old glover said in a pitying voice.

Madame Eiesen shrugged her shoulders
for answer. She pointed to the couple in
front.

'* That is a settled affair, then ? "

Madame Boileau nodded her head repeatedly.


Yes, yes, my good friend, quite settled.
You do not think, do you, that I should
permit Marie to walk arm-in-arm with a
man unless he had engaged to marry her 
no." She took a huge pinch of snuff.
*' Marie is a very lucky girl. Captain
Loigerot is a man of property, and is in
every way* a desirable match."

** Desirable in that way, no doubt ; but,
my friend, as I said just now, he is far too
old for the girl." Madame Eiesen felt so

convinced that her husband had stolen back
to the widow that it was a relief to be able
to soften her own vexation by tormenting
her old gossip. '* He would be better suited
to me than to pretty little Marie. Stupid,
pompous old fellow, what a wretched life
hers will be ! Poor child, I pity her ! "

*' Poor child, indeed ! She needs no
pity ; you are mistaken, my good friend ;
they are as fond as turtle-doves. You have
no notion how much she likes him. But
now tell me something. Did the other
lovers settle the matter on Sunday ? "

This was a question that sorely puzzled
the clock-maker and his wife. Madame
Kiesen had reproached her husband for
his interference, which she affirmed had
disturbed the natural course of events
between the lovers, while he stoutly maintained
that the widow was only amusing
herself, and had no real affection for the

young fellow. But the clock-maker's wife
was not going to repeat this, she felt that
she must keep up with Madame Boileau
her reputation for superior information.

I fancy they understand each other ;
but "  she put her finger to her pale lips 
*' our beautiful friend is reserved, you know.
Monsieur Engemann went off to Bale
yesterday for the whole day. Poor thing !
I pitied her. It seemed rather unloverlike,
I must say."

'Perhajs he had to go on business," said
Madame Boileau. "By-the-way, I expected
to hear you had all been caught in
the storm on Sunday."

Yes, we got a little of it ; we had
counted on a walk in the pine-wood,
that of course was impossible ; we had a
good dinner at the Freienhof and stayed
there till the storm cleared off; this rather
spoiled sport for the lovers."

Madame Boileau looked slyly out of
her narrow eyes.

*' I dare say your husband put in a
word or two and helped the storm," she
said, innocently.

Madame Kiesen tossed her head like an
impatient horse.

Not at all ; it was not that. Of course
Lorenz and I too had words to say ; but
the storm drove every one under shelter,
and very soon the room at the Freienhof
filled with strangers, and a tete-astute
became impossible."

'' Ah 1 " said Madame Boileau. '' Well,
then I suppose there will soon be a gay
wedding at the Beauregard."

She had quickened her pace till she and
Madame Eiesen came abreast of the
captain and Marie.

"Monsieur le Capitaine will be glad to
hear it is all right," the old woman said.

* between Monsieur Engemann and our
beautiful widow. Here is Madame Risen,
who wishes to offer her congratulations
to you on your engagement."

With all possible pleasure, monsieur,
and may I say monsieur has chosen a
charming bride. Mademoiselle Marie, you
must permit me to wish you every happiness
; " she bent forward and kissed the
girl.

Marie was taken by surprise ; she blushed
with anger and shame. It had been easier
than she had expected to accept the captain
as a lover; but she had not guessed that
she should be made to suffer this public
exhibition, for it seemed to her that he
was showing her off to all the world with
smiling triumph as his property.

*' It is unbearable'' she thought, keeping:
back her tears with difficulty. " If I could
only get home and be by myself! Perhaps.

if I ask him he will take me away ; he is
a kind man, I am sure of it."

Madame," the captain was saying, pompously,
to the clock-maker's wife, " I trust
that the enjoyment of Sunday came upto
your  your expectations."

Yes  yes  certainly, monsieur"  the
poor woman would not confess that her
husband had been as sulky as a bear, and
that the rain had damaged the new mantle
she had put on for the excursion  " though,
of course, the storm upset our evening
as it upset monsieur's, I fancy."

Madame "  he gave what he meant to
be a most loving glance at Marie  *'I was
in such bliss last Sunday evening, that
the weather was indifferent to me  completely
indifferent ; I had intended to spend
it here, but I was supremely happy
somewhere else. Ladies"  he gave a bow
which began with Marie and ended with

Madame Boileau  " you will permit me
to offer you some ices. Farther on we
shall find a vacant table near the music.
Mademoiselle, I observe, likes music."

He pressed Marie's hand with his arm,
and looked up lovingly in her face.

Marie bowed. At least when they sat
down he must let go her hand, and she
thought when they rose again it would be
possible to avoid this dreadful walking up
and down with him.

She began to think out a means of
escape.

STILL ON THE Terrace.

Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more,
Men "were deceivers ever ;
One foot in sea, and one on shore,
To one thing constant never j
Then sigh not so,
But let them go."

Shakespeare.

Lenoir, the hair-dresser, came bustling upto
the spot where Captain Loigerot and
his companions had been standing. He
had seen them, but he had not chosen to
come forward and offer his congratulations.
He considered himself ill-used. Madame
Boileau had not been open with him.
He had been a good friend to her  a friendlie

thought, such as few persons possessed ;'
he had not forgotten some trifling civilities
she had shown him when he was a lad, and
in return for these he had written to Bale
to tell her when the business at the *eked
Glove " was offered for sale, and he had
arranged and facilitated matters for her.
He had certainly accepted a commission
from the outer for having procured him
a tenant  but that was all in the way of
business ; and he considered that Madame
Boileau should have taken him into her
confidence before she chose a husband for
Marie, or at least after the affair was
-arranged with the captain.

"There has been something more in it
than meets the eye," he thought, as he
Poked on to where the three ladies were
seated with the captain at one of the little
tables near the edge of the terrace. " I'll
wager that our widow had a hand in it.

Ah, what a woman that is I" he nodded
approvingly. Lenoir's father had been
French, and it seemed to him that the
widow's tactics in this affair justified her
nationality, supposing that she had been
really afraid of Marie's attractions in respect
to Monsieur Engemann. "I can
hardly think that of Engemann," he said ;
**no man would choose spring fruit, however
blooming, before a luscious peach."

The little hair-dresser looked more like a
tomtit than ever, as he walked along, his
head set perkily on one side, and his black
eyes glittering keenly in large dark rings
that circled them. All at once his beaky
nose and his thin pointed chin quivered
with excitement. He had suddenly remembered
the encounter at the bear-pit ;
he threw out his hand as if to catch the
idea that presented itself.

Aha," he said, " and I told madame

about it, and I remember that she was so
extra languid and indifferent, I fancied at
the time that her manner was put on ; now
I am sure it was. My friend Lenoir, you
were right ; it is not so long ago, and now
Madame Risen tells me that the widow is
certainly going to marry that fair-haired
giant, who had his hair cut yesterday
in Fribourg  a mere passage-place between
Berne and other cities. Pouf! the Goth
as if fashion of any kind could be found in
Fribourg."

He rubbed his hands together and walked
on the toes of his polished boots, for his
costume this evening was very elaborate.
It seems to me that after all the jolly captain
is in my debt. I may have been the means
of providing the little Marie with a husband.
Yes, yes, my friend, it was probably
your news that you had seen Marie
and young Engemann together that roused

the widow's jealousy, and set her on to make
this marriage. The proof will be to see the
two couples meet. I must not miss that
meeting ; it gives me an interest, it is something
to look out for, and it must happen
sooner or later, unless Madame Carouse has
already left the gardens ; she looked tired
enough just now."

He had met Madame Carouse and Kudolf
Engemann near the entrance, but he had
avoided them. Now he determined to go
in search of the lovers, and to witness their
probable meeting with the captain and
Marie.

** If they are all on the terrace together
they must meet," he thought, and he
chuckled. He felt sure " the young giant,"
as he called Kudolf, would feel awkward
between the the two women. Going on
toward the music platform he overtook
the clock-maker.

Good evening, my friend," said Lenoir,
*' you seem dull. Are you looking for
Madame Kiesen ? I can tell you where
she is."

Thank you, Lenoir, you are very kind."
Eiesen was anxious to get rid of the little
hair-dresser, and he was also trying to keep
out of the way of his wife. *' I left her not
long ago. I have promised to seek out
Madame Carouse."

"Come along with me, then," Lenoir
said, **I fancy we shall find them on
beyond there."

If they had looked into the gathering
shadows under the trees, they would have
seen the widow and Kudolf Engemann
seated on a bench at this end of the terrace.
The two were really almost in a line with
the captain and his party, but the tree
under which they were sitting was far
back  the whole width of the promenade

VOL. HI. I

W9S between them and the trio round
the table. Moreover, Madame Carouse
and her companion sat with their backs to
the terrace.

Madame Carouse was very quiet when
she first met Rudolf Engemann this afternoon.
The delight of his presence overpowered
every other feeling ; but on her
way to the gardens with him and with
the Riesens she had time to reflect that he
had made no apology for his absence on
the previous day, and it had seemed to her
when they parted on Sunday that only a
few words were needed to make them all
in all to each other. Why had he not
come to say those words ? To-day he was
polite, devoted even in manner, but she
felt that he had gone back in warmth.

"It is my fault, perhaps," she thought.
I am still too reserved with him, poor,
dear fellow I "

She roused, and began to talk with much
animation of their Sunday's journey, till
Rudolf became absorbed in listening to
her  she brought it all so vividly before
him. They had sat down under the trees.

It was indeed a perfect day, madame ;
but I regret losing that walk in the pine-wood
; though, perhaps, it is better we
could not have it ; it seems the more to be
desired because it was left undone."

"Do you wish for it still?" she said
softly ; and as he met her eyes, their wonderful
languid charm seemed to steal into
his soul.

Do I not ? " he said. '* When one has
experienced the enjoyment I did on Sunday,
one is apt to wish that it would repeat
itself."

"That shall be when you please," she

said. " I, too, feel that our day was left

unfinished."

She looked at him again ; and again he

I 2

thought how beautiful she was, and how
kind. *most men by this time would
worship such a woman ; well, I suppose I
am made of ice. Madame," he spoke impulsively,
" how good and kind you are !
"Will you permit me, then, to go with you
again to Thun; and next time we will try to
finish our day ? "

To those who sat on the terrace it looked
already gloomy under the thickly-planted
trees behind it ; but there was plenty of
light in the spaces between them, and
Engemann saw the strong effect of his
words on his companion's face. A sudden
light filled her eyes, and a flush rose on her
cheeks, her bosom rose and fell rapidly ; then
she looked down on the ground, and began
to draw patterns on it with the point of her
parasol.

Eudolf started, he felt as if some one had
suddenly roused him from a pleasant dream.

'' What am I doing ? " he thought. " I
do not love this woman ; I must take

care " he paused. 'why do I not

love her?" he asked himself. He moved
impatiently ; between him and the glowing,
downcast face beside him rose the
sweet, innocent eyes of Marie  he turned
as if from a spectre ; she was a girl who
had flirted, who had no heart, no feeling
'rit is folly, and worse, to think

of her." And then the question seemed
to utter itself without his will : " Are you
quite sure that Madame Boileau's cousin
will marry Captain Loigerot ? "

He had uttered his thoughts aloud,
without considering the abruptness of the
transition.

Madame Carouse looked at him in
astonishment, then she rose and looked imperious,
though she tried to speak gently.
Let us go on to the terrace, monsieur,'

she said ; " perhaps there you may be
able to judge for yourself. I heard that
Captain Loigerot was to be here this
evening ; we shall find him probably with
little Marie, watching for the sunset."

She felt deeply wounded ; and without
another look at Eudolf she walked across
to the terrace.

"the after-glow."

** It is a basilisk unto mine eye,
Kills me to look on't  let there be no honour
Where there is beauty ; truth, where semblance ; love
Where there's another man
Oh, above measure false ! "

Cymheline.

They walked over the grass beneath the
trees till they came out on the broad
promenade, which, when they arrived at
the Schanzli, had been covered with groups
of merry people chatting to one another
as they paced up and down.

Now it was almost deserted, though a
few couples still lingered here and there ;

but these had seemingly come to the
gardens to look into one another's eyes ;
and it was surprising, considering the steep
and tiring road they must have climbed,
that they had taken the trouble to come
thus far for such a purpose.

Madame Carouse looked round with
impatience. Not among these sentimental
lovers should she find the captain and
his fiancee. She glanced on to the edge
of the terrace, and she could have stamped
with vexation. It was literally thronged
with people staring across the valley. She
guessed what was happening ; she had
never come up here to see the sight, but
she knew very well that all these *' idiots,"
as she mentally called them, were waiting
to see the sun set ; and as she looked,
she saw that she had yet some time to
wait before they could meet Captain
Loigerot and Marie. No one could be

distinguished in the closely-packed line
of people that leaned on the railing of the
terrace, and no one would be likely to
move out of it till " the after-glow " had
faded. So they waited side by side, a little
behind the crowd ; and as yet the sun had
not set.

Presently there was a hush among the
spectators. The light clouds that had
partly veiled the mountains had floated
upward, and hung suspended above the
Jungfrau, as if they, too, would gaze on
the coming spectacle ; they gleamed with
golden brilliance as the sun, resting
opposite, seemed to look at them from a
ridge which glowed darkly purple below
him.

All at once he sank behind the rid ore,
and then high up on the snowy peaks,
which seemed almost in heaven, a soft rosy
light shone out of the glorious mountains.

Each moment the glow deepened ; the lines
just now so brilliant in silver light, were
first gold and then a dazzling flame colour ;
the dusky terrace was suddenly illuminated;
and the valley, which had been blurred into
a uniform tint of olive, revealed once more
its nestling buildings and the fringe of trees-below,
beside the river.

A murmur ran softly along the line of
gazers, but their eyes did not stray from
the splendid spectacle. It glowed deeper
and deeper, and the sky became luminous
with golden-edged scarlet clouds. . . .

Then came a sudden change : the rosy
flames that seemed to have rushed out of
the heart of the snow mountains vanished ;
purple, or rather gradations of deep, richmond
colour, spread up from the base of
the mountains, aud glowed on the opposite
hills, deepening and darkening every
moment, not so startling or vivid, perhaps,.

as *the after-glow" had been, but yet more
beautiful in sombre richness of colour.

But the greater part of the crowd did not
wait to see this new beauty; the closely-packed
line had already broken up again
into groups, that found gossip about their
own affairs or scandal about their neighbours
far more interesting than the
splendid study of colour in the sky and
on the mountains.

Eudolf Engemann, however, lingered ;.
the purple hues were changing every instant,
and he stood gazing in an ecstasy
of admiration at the wonderful changes
on sky and mountains. He could not
have defined his delight, but as he bent
forward, enjoying it, he forgot Madame
Carouse altogether ; he was under a spell
and he felt entranced.

A little way on from where he stood with
the widow, was the table from which the

captain and his party had risen to watch the
sunset. The others had now turned away
from the sight, but Marie went on gazing
sat the mountains ; she did not see that the
captain was waiting patiently for her.

The purple hue quickly faded away into
a sombre tone that would have been black
if it had been less full of deep colour ; this
made the golden sky yet more luminous, and
the pale faint green above, ethereal m its
beauty; and then all gradually became gray.

Marie, Marie," Madame Boileau's harsh
voice broke into the girl's enjoyment, " do
you not hear ? Captain Loigerot has twice
offered you his arm, and you keep hit waiting
and pay no attention."

"Ah!"  the girl started. ''I beg your
pardon, monsieur."

Then, seeing that the captain looked
kindly at her, she turned to him as to a
refuge from the vexed face of her cousin.

"It is nothing, my sweet young lady ;
your pleasure is, and will always be my first
consideration. You  aw  you consider,
then, this sight has been worth coming to
see."

He stood with his legs wide apart, and
his head thrown back, as if he had uttered
a question that it would puzzle her ta
answer.

The intense beauty Marie had been enjoying
had filled her eyes with tears, but she
could not help smiling into the captain's
broad, bronzed face.

Yes, indeed, monsieur, thank you," she
said; "I am glad we stayed to see it." Then
she added, for this seemed a good opportunity
for getting away : " It is time to ga
home, I think."

She said this to him with a little feeling
of triumph, for she felt that the captain
would most likely comply with her wish

even if it went against that of Madame
Boileau.

** Yes, oh yes, we will go if you wish it,"
he answered, but he looked disappointed.

Marie had spoken a minute too late.
Without looking round, she knew that
Madame Boileau was shaking hands with
some one, and now the captain looked sharply
round as a hand touched his shoulder.

Monsieur Kiesen stood beside him, and
in front was Monsieur Lenoir. The little
hair-dresser was bowing low to Marie and
also to Loigerot, with an indescribable
mixture of malice and amusement in his
bright, restless eyes.

Permit me to congratulate you, monsieur,"
said Kiesen. Then to Marie,
Mademoiselle, you have my best wishes."

Kiesen had a fatherly, protecting air while
lie spoke, and his wife kept up an accompaniment
of " Yes, yes ; Lorenz has come

to offer you his congratulations ; yes, yes,
that is as it should be."

*sit is delightful to see people so well-matched'
said Lenoir, in his jerky, impertinent
way ; he looked with his head on
sone side at Marie and the captain.

Marie felt that she could no longer stand
still to be stared at and congratulated.
"They are all trying to torment me," she
thought. Her cheeks burned. "They must
despise me in their hearts. It is not to be
borne." But she had placed her hand within
the captain's arm, and, as if he suspected her
feelings, he tightened his pressure so that
she could not draw away her hand without
his knowledge.

"Let us walk down to the end of
the terrace," Madame Eiesen whispered to
the old woman ; " the music is so noisy
here."

I cannot leave Marie, and we must

soon be going home," Madame Boileau
answered expressively.

Ta, ta, my dear friend ; we have only
to lead the way, the others will follow us
like sheep."

Madame Eiesen knew that her husband
would oppose any suggestion she might
make, and she was completely weary of the
old glover's society. Among the groups now
coming up to listen to the music she hoped
to shake her off when she had secured a
more amusing companion.

** Shall we go this way, and then turn
and make for the gate ? " said Madame
Boileau to the captain.

Lenoir smiled and chuckled as he heard the
suggestion. He knew that Madame Carouse
and her lover must be at that end of the
terrace, for he had just come in the opposite
direction, and he had been looking in vain for
the commanding figure of the young Swiss.

Madame Boileau and her friend walked
so completely in front of her that Marie
now felt sheltered from notice. She was
no longer so shy of the captain in this
crowd of strange people.

It is pleasant to walk without stopping'
she said ; " does not monsieur think
so ? " She smiled at him as she spoke.

** What a little duck ! " the captain said
to himself. " I believe she is really fond
of being alone with me ; the old woman
was right after all."

Mademoiselle Marie "  he tugged at his
moustache as if to get his words out  "it
is as you say ; for me it will always be as
you say and as you wish. You shall be
my rudder, you shall direct my course in
all things, for I see that you are wise, as
wise as you are beautiful, and  and wisdom
is even more rare than beauty in a young
lady of your  your years."

VOL. III. K

He had puffed out his cheeks in uttering
this unusually long speech, till Marie could
not keep in her laughter ; but she laughed
so merrily and pleasantly that the captain
took it in good part, and squeezed her hand
so tightly and with a look of devotion so
ardent that a bright blush rose on her fair
face.

There was a rustling of silken skirts
close at hand, an exclamation from the captain,
and Marie's eyes dilated as she looked
on before her. Madame Boileau was not
to be seen, but in front of them stood
Madame Carouse holding out her hand to
the captain. The girl felt scorched and
withered  Monsieur Engemann stood beside
the beautiful widow, and the girl met
his eyes full of angry scorn.

"Good evening, Captain Loigerot."
Madame Carouse looked at Marie as she
spoke. ''I congratulate you; this is as

it should be ; it is a pleasure, my dear, to
see your happiness," she added to the girl.
** You have my best wishes."

Marie trembled, but she did not speak.

Engemann bit his lip fiercely. "It is
true, then," he said to himself, 'she does
care for this pompous old satyr."

The captain was bowing very low.

Madame, I thank you a thousand times
a thousand times, madame. I am a proud
and happy man to-night." He stood on
tiptoe and tried to whisper to the widow
but his words also reached Enofemann.
'*My  my rosebud is all that I could wish,
as sweet and loving as she is lovely. And
you, madame," he raised his voice and
looked knowingly at Rudolf, " you, I hope
are as happy as we are." He glanced
fondly at Marie, but her eyes were benton
the ground. "Sweet little dove, she
is shy," he thought; 'she does not like

K 2

to be stared at." " Come, Engemann, have
you not a word of congratulation for me
and for mademoiselle ? "

** I, monsieur ! " Engemann looked very
stern, but he managed a grim smile. "On
the contrary, I have many for you both.
I am glad you can be so easily happy."

He said this mockingly, and then he
moved on quickly in the opposite direction,
with Madame Carouse on his arm. He
strode along, frowning heavily as he looked
on the ground.

Well," said Madame Carouse, " are you
convinced they are engaged ? And Marie is
quite content, you see. We did not seethe
matter as she does, I fancy."

He did not answer.

The widow glanced at him without
turning her head, but she did not again
venture to intrude into his thoughts ; she
felt afraid of him in that moment, and her

jealousy flamed out in her eyes. It seemed to
her that she had been right, he must have
cared for this simple-faced child, or he
would not be so disturbed by the certainty
of her engagement to Captain Loigerot.

Madame Carouse suffered keenly ; after
all the love she had betrayed to him, he
seemed to be slipping away from her. Her
passion sought to hold him, and yet
her pride kept her restrained. But she
loved him too dearly to sacrifice the hope
of his love to the indulgence of her pride,
and yet not even her absorption in him
could teach her how best to approach him
now. She walked beside him, silent, with
the timid downcast air of a child expecting
reproof, until they reached the end of the
terrace. Here she stopped.

** Need we walk quite so fast ? " she said,
and her voice sounded tearful.

Rudolf started out of his reverie. At

that moment when he seemed so indifferent,
he was in reality nearer to Madame Carouse
than he had ever been. As he strode away
from Marie and her captain, he had upbraided
himself for his infatuation ; he had
called himself a fool in respect of that
heartless girl, and a brute with regard to
Madame Carouse. He had been cold to
this tender, loving woman for the sake of
a flirt, who had sold herself to a gray-beard,
and who was evidently rejoicing
in the bargain she had made. As he
recalled the laugh he had seen on Marie's
face when they came up to her, and the
captain's amorous glances, Kudolf frowned
once more heavily.

The widow saw the frown and she sighed.

He turned quickly to her. *' You must
forgive me, madame ; I ought not to have
walked so fast. How thoughtless I am,
thoughtless in every way ! I must have

tired you past endurance ; forgive me,
indeed I have much, very much to ask
pardon for."

She gave him a tender, timid smile, there
was comfort in his words ; but then they
might only mean kindness.

'sit is no matter; I am not very tired,
but I believe I must say good night now. I
seem to be sadly unfortunate ; 1 hoped when
you asked me to come, that this evening
would have given you pleasure also. You,
who admire beauty so ardently, I thought
would delight in the sunset as much as I
did, and instead " She hesitated.

*' It is not your fault that the evening
has not given me unmixed pleasure."

He pressed with his other hand the
fingers that lay within his arm.

In some way or other I fear it has given
you pain," she said plaintively ; but ber eyes
hone with joy.

'' What a lovely, loving woman ! She only
cares for what I feel, she does not dwell
upon her own feelings," he thought, and his
gratitude showed in his eyes, * how little
I deserve such goodness ! " *' No, madame,"
he said impulsively, " you have been all
that is kind and sweet, and I have been
cold and ungrateful  my only excuse is,
I am not myself this evening, I must ask
you to forgive me."

I ? " She gave him one tender glance.
'' No, no ! " she said, *' I have nothing to forgive.
I only wished to see you happier, and

and " She hesitated ; tender, ardent

words were on her tongue, but she checked
them ; she felt that she was on the edge of
her fate, and she wished to prolong these
delicious moments. *' My dearest wish," she
said quietly, *sis to make you happy, and I
do not think," she added, with a little laude
which was pathetic, for it tried to hide how

intensely lie felt what she was saying,
*'I do not think I quite know the way
do I?"

He released her hand from his arm, and
then he took it between his own.

What can I say to such sweetness ? "
his voice was hoarse but full of feeling.
Will you forgive me all my rudeness, all
my coldness ? " He bent over her hand
and kissed it. ' I will indeed try to deserve
all this goodness."

Madame Carouse could not speak ; this
sudden change took away her breath. She
felt lifted off the cold, dull earth into that
paradise of warm, rosy love which the
glowing mountains had awhile ago pictured
to her; for a grand spectacle of nature is
many-tongued in its messages as it reveals
itself to the varied minds that drink in its
varied teaching through their eyes.

She looked up suddenly at her companion,

but she did not meet his eyes.
He was gazing far off at the purple mass
that girdled in the scene, and made even
the terrace gloomy.

*rit will soon be dark," he said gravely.
The sudden glow that had drawn him
towards his companion had died away
already.

She was not thrown back now as she
had been on former occasions by his change
of manner. The spell of his presence
subdued her will, even her sensations, into
union with his ; she began to understand
that his manner would always be subject
to change, and she answered him in the
same tone.

Yes, it is getting dark. I am ready to
go home. Shall we tell Monsieur Risen
to see after the carriage ? "

Engemann bowed, and they went on
along the terrace. She was silent from

joy ; at last she knew that he loved her.
Perhaps he had always loved her, and only
the doubt and fear of her own feelings had
clouded her sight with this foolish want
of confidence. That kiss on her hand had
thrilled through her being ; it had been the
seal of their love, she thought, and she
emptied her heart of the dark fears it had
harboured, and let in a band of bright
hopes. She sighed softly with almost a
weight of joy.

'' Ah ! here is Monsieur Eiesen," Eudolf
said.

They had come up to the husband and
wife standing in the middle of the promenade
which was now almost deserted, for
though the music had only just ceased,
people were rapidly leaving the gardens.

At last we have found you," cried the
clock-maker's wife coming forward ; and the
widow thought her cackling voice seemed

to clash harshly into the delicious silence.
"A pair of truants, indeed. But I suppose
we must excuse them ; eh, Lorenz ? "

Don't be a fool," her husband muttered.

"Will you have the kindness to find
the carriage. Monsieur Risen ? " Madame
Carouse said to him. " I must go home,
I had no idea it was so late."

But the clock-maker felt that this was the
last straw, and that he could not carry it.
His evening had been altogether hateful to
him, and he had been obliged to admit to
himself that, after all, his wife had been in
the right, and that Engemann was in
earnest in his pursuit of the widow ; he had
not once left her side during the evening,
and Risen had scarcely had a chance of
speaking to her. It had been exasperating.
He looked at Madame Carouse, and he saw
how subdued she was, and how young and
happy she looked. He felt very angry.

Engemann, my good fellow," he said,
' I have a weak ankle, and I should be glad
to rest it while Pierre puts the horse in if
you will go and find him. I told him he
might put the carriage up, and enjoy himself
in the gardens. Can you find him, do
you think ? " " Diable ! " he said to himself
; " that fellow Engemann shall earn his
salt somehow."

Engemann was gone before Madame
Carouse could speak. To her dismay, she
found herself alone with Madame Eiesen
and her husband.

MISSING.

There's no joy without alloy."

Proverb.

'' Life is a series of surprises."

Lord Houghton.

When Rudolf Eagemann passed on so
scornfully with the widow on his arm, the
captain stood still, with his mouth wide
open, and a look of displeasure on his
broad, full-moon face.

Madame Boileau, the Riesens, and
Lenoir had gone on without noticing the
meeting, for Lenoir's eager watching had
been at fault. The old woman began to

VOL. III. L

whisper scandal to lier friend, and the birdlike
barber could not help listening, he was
dying to hear what she said.

They had been all too much occupied
with themselves to notice what had happened
behind them, and, indeed, the flow
of people coming up from the end of the
terrace, eager to leave the gardens, had
by this time completely parted them from
the captain and Marie.

Tonnerre 1 " Loigerot exclaimed  and
between his teeth he uttered some much
stronger words  " what does the fellow
mean, sneering at a gentleman ? And 
and he owes me explanation, and he shall
give it, or "

And again a strong word came out,
louder than before, as he put his hand to
where his sword-hilt should have been.

He had not felt in such a rage since he
left the army, and for a minute he forgot
where he was ; the whole scene became

blurred and confused ; he longed to have
it out with this "insolent clerk' as he
termed Engemann.

It has been hinted that Captain Loigerot
was in some things rather obtuse ; but his
position this evening had sharpened his perceptions,
and in his sympathy for Marie's
sensitiveness he had become quick-sighted ;
he had not accepted as genuine all the
felicitations which had been so lavishly
bestowed on him this evening ; he had seen
ridicule on some of the faces of those who
congratulated him ; and the malicious sarcasm,
as it seemed to him, of Engemann,
had stung him keenly. It was evident that
this young man, rich in personal advantages,
and happy in the love of a beautiful woman,
despised him and disbelieved in his good
fortune.

For an instant  as he stood bristling
with anger from head to foot  Loigerot saw
himself as he appeared to Rudolf, middle

2

aged and doting, fooled into the belief that
he was loved for himself. The idea was
momentary, but it took his thoughts at
once back to Marie. Her hand no longer
rested on his arm, and as he looked round
quickly and with sudden alarm, he saw that
she was not beside him.

Diable ! " he exclaimed, and the colour
deepened on his face. " What ! Why !
In Heaven's name I what has happened ?
Where is my little dove ? "

He looked eagerly about him, but close
by was Madame Webernn, the pastrycook,
and Loiscrot was far too old a soldier to let
this gossiping woman perceive his discomfiture.
He bowed to her, and then he looked
toward the table and chairs where they had
been sitting. They were empty. Loigerot
walked on looking about him, but he tried
to hide his discomfiture ; for although people
were going away fast, still he met an acquaintance

here and there. He had been
so triumphant all the evening, he must not
betray to these curious eyes any uneasiness
in his search for Marie.

Poor little dove ! " he said to himself ;
he felt in great need of pacifying words.
'* Poor little angel ! no doubt she was tired,
and she does not like to be stared at. She
has gone after Madame Boileau. Yes, that
is it ; I remember that they were on in
front. She has gone after the old woman ;
but it is unwise, she may not easily find
her, and she should not have slipped away
from me. It will soon be dark. I hope
she is not still alone." His face became
pathetic in its expression of alarm. " It is
most foolish, most improper. Well, well, the
sweet child is young and does not know."

It had been arranged between Madame
Boileau and the captain that they should
all walk home together by the lower bridge,

for Loigerot had not found this drive to the
gardens amusing, perched up beside the
coachman, while the two ladies sat together
behind him.

He stood still, thinking what he should
do now. The ladies were possibly tired of
waiting, they might have gone home alone.
The idea of Marie, perhaps quite alone, or
walking in the dark, with no better protector
than " old Boileau," as he called
her, filled the captain with alarm, and
quickened his faculties.

He rolled along to the end of the terrace
walk, and then came rapidly back again ;
but he could not see Marie anywhere ; at
length after a keen search amono the remaining
stragglers, he hurried to the entrance of
the gardens, always looking for the tall figure
in a pale gray gown. But he could not find
either Marie or Madame Bobincau. As he
hastened along, he saw the Kisses and

Madame Carouse standing together, but
they did not see him, and he avoided them.

*' I am not going," he said to himself,
"to let that long-tongued gossip, Madame
Eiesen, know of my mischance ; she shall not
hear that Marie ran away from me, I should
never hear the last of it," and he hurried on.

Duty was paramount with the captain.
He had lost Marie by his own carelessness
; it was his place to find her, and
he must find her without delay. At first
he had been more startled than troubled.
After his diligent search through the
gardens had failed, he guessed that she
had gone away with Madame Boileau.
But although his lack of imagination prevented
the captain from conjuring up the
doubt and dread which might have affected
a more sensitive lover, his common-sense
rarely failed him, and by the time he
had reached the foot-bridge across the Aar,

without catching np either of the ladies,
he felt puzzled and anxious, unable to
decide what he had best do.

The unaccustomed speed at which he had
walked no doubt added to his disturbance ;
but still, even supposing that Madame Boileau
had quitted the gardens when he missed
Marie, he must long ago have overtaken
her. He stood still on the bridge, puffing
and panting ; perhaps it would be best to go
back and ask Risen's help in finding them,
for, after all, they might have sat down to
wait for him in some out-of-the-way corner
of the gardens. But even as he turned back
to carry out this idea, a new and more hopeful
thought suggested itself. Madame Boileau
had complained of fatigue as they sat
drinking lemonade, and Marie had asked
him to take her home ; she, perhaps, was
also tired. Was it not more than likely
that some friend leaving in a carriage had

offered the old woman and her charge seats,
and that Madame Boileau had carried off
Marie with her ?

He shrugged his shoulders. " She is a
wary old bird," he said to himself. *' She
arranged that we should all walk home
together, by way of the foot-bridge. I had
counted on this walk with my little girl 
bah ! The old woman sees I am secure,
and she no longer studies my wishes. Well,
well, I shall have the marriage fixed a fortnight
hence. I am tired of interference, and
I want my little girl to myself out of the
reach of the old has."

All this time he was hurrying along by
the short way to the Spitalgasse  he
guessed that he should find Madame Boileau
at home  and this short way was up a
flight of steep steps in the lofty green bank
on which stand the houses and churches of
Berne looking down into the poplar-fringed

Aar. Loigerot's face had become purple
with exertion, and he gasped when he
reached the top of the steps. He took off
his hat and stood still to recover his breath,
for, although it was dusk, the heat still lingered
with the strange atmospheric pressure
that threatens storm.

' Pouf ! " he gasped ; " you forget your
extra weight and your short wind, my
friend Achille, and the years since you
were at the Malakhoff ; my wind was right
enough then ! Diable ! perhaps it is love
that helps to make my heart beat ; that
is too amusing, you old dog ! " and he
laughed heartily at himself in spite of his
breathless condition. " Well, well," he
wiped his bald head and put on his hat,
to work again, my friend ; it is a hard
end to a day's pleasure, but the reward will
be the sweeter, and the little rogue shall
pay me in kisses. Ah ! We will have no
more make-believes ; that old mummy shall

not come between us with her precious
advice." He smacked his lips heartily, and
hurried on in his rolling fashion to the " Eed
Glove."

The big red sign looked almost scornful
and threatening to the captain as a ray
from the gas lamp glinted on it.

Loigerot knocked twice, but no answer
came. He knocked more loudly a third time.
Diable ! " he said ; " this grows serious :
but I have perhaps arrived first." He
looked up again at the Eed Glove. Something
in the aspect of the bloated sign made
him shake his clenched fist at it. It seemed
to mock him. He stood still, gazing, his
temper was rising, while his face grew yet
more angry ; at last he turned away. " I
am not going to be made a fool of, and Til
never be laughed at by an old she-devil of
a glover. She is gorging herself with
supper, no doubt she pretends not to hear."

His sturdy legs were very wide apart ashe

stood opening the private door with his
pass-key.

Madame Boileau ! Madame Boileau
! ''

He roared and shouted her name downstairs,
in the kitchen, upstairs ; the shop
door was locked, or he would have gone in
there. He had lost all self-control, and he
even knocked at Engemann's door.

The house was like a grave  dark, silent,
and stifling in its atmosphere, for every
window had been closely shut by the old
glover before she left home.

Loigerot came slowly downstairs, a
little ashamed of his excitement ; he stood
thinking on the mat in the passage.

All at once he opened the door, banged it
behind him, and hurrying up the street he
turned to the left and soon reached the flight
of steps leading down to Marie's lodgings.
*she may have come home without

madame' he thought, 'rand she would perhaps
go straight to her lodgings." He had
watched the girl home more than once ;
but when he arrived at the door of the
house he had seen her enter, he felt that this
proceeding was open to objection ; would
it not be injurious to Marie if any one
saw him at the door of her lodgings ?

"I will risk it ; it is dark," he said, "and
there are not many people about," and he
knocked.

The door was slowly opened. 'who is
there ? " a woman's voice asked.

Is Mademoiselle Marie Peyrolles at
home ? "

The captain could not distinguish anything
in the dark passage through the half-opened
door.

"No," and the door began to close.

Loigerot put his foot just within. " I
beg your pardon," he said politely, " but

are you sure of what you say, madame ? The
young lady may have come in without
your knowledge."

** That is not possible' the croaking
voice said ; *' she has no key."

You are quite sure, madame ; someone
else may have opened the door for
her ? Will you have the goodness to go
and inquire if Mademoiselle Marie is
within ? "

There was a pause, then a grunt came
from the speaker ; the door was closed,
and he heard a heavy step going upstairs.

He waited with a smile of relief. *' It
is all right," he said, * no doubt Madame
Boileau has seen her home, and has then
gone off to some of her gossips. Poor
little girl, it is horrible to think of her
being lodged in such dirty quarters, but
we will make all that right before long.
Ah ! here the woman comes."

The door opened again and he felt
radiant with hope, but the harsh voice jerked
out : *' She has not come in ; she is not in
her room," and the door was shut in his
face.

The captain stood looking blankly at
the door. So far he had followed instinct,
and had felt a sort of blundering surprise
at his own cleverness. Now he looked
as clumsy and as helpless as a performing
bear does when he has played out all his
antics. There is nothing to be done in
the bear's case but to repeat his performance,
and the only idea that came to
Captain Loigerot was that he must go back
to the gardens, and begin his search over
again.

I came by the short way, by the footbridge,
as we had settled to come'' he
said, with self-reproach, " and they may
have kept to the road and are coming

across by the upper bridge." He tugged
at his moustaches as though seeking his
usual counsel from them. A sudden and
most comforting idea came to his assistance ;
it was evident that Madame Boileau and
Marie were together, for they were both
missing.

The captain drew a deep breath of relief,
and, holding his head erect, he rolled down
the street, resolved to follow it to its end,
and thus lose no chance of seeing: the
fugitives in the event of their being in a
carriage.

** Sapristi ! " he muttered ; 'rit was all the
fault of that idea of walking home. Achille,
when will you learn to be reasonable, and
to remember that you are no longer twenty
years of age, and that little Marie does not
care a centime for walking home with you
in the dark ? She is not taken with your
bright eyes, as some others were years ago.

But  but, ma foi," he nodded complacently,
*' I causflit her several times smiling at me,
little dear. When a girl is shy she is the
devil for hiding her feelings, but they peep
out spite of her caution. Well, well, the
shy game will soon be over with her."

He did not walk back as fast as he had
come ; there were a good many people at
this end of the town, and he did not wish to
-attract observation. When he had turned
out of the streets and was on his way to the
bridge beneath the railway, he began to
meet scattered groups who were returning
the Schanzli. These gradually dispersed
themselves into the town by various
side turnings, and soon the road was deserted.
But there was nothing to be seen of Marie
and Madame Boileau.

Ciel ! where are they ? " said the
captain between his teeth ; '' it is most
extraordinary."

VOL. III. M

By this time he had reached the suspension
bridge. Lights were twinkling among
the houses on the opposite bank, and a
murmur of voices came up from the poplar-fringed
walk far below beside the river.
There was a cold gleam on the water,
wholly unlike its usual aspect. The bridge
vibrated as the sound of a carriage was
heard coming across it : the gas-lamp at
this end was lit, and Loigerot stood under
it, ready to examine the occupants of the
coming vehicle.

As the carriage emerged from the covered
bridge and was passing him, a cry was
heard from within.

There is the captain ! " was called out.
Captain Loigerot ! " And from the box
Lenoir joined in the duet between Eiesen
and Madame Boileau in the carriage.

Lenoir stopped the coachman ; but by
the time Loigerot had reached the carriage-door

Madame Boileau had sunk down ina
heap on the seat and was shaking with
terror. She had seen that the captain was
alone. She could not get out a word.

'there you are at last!" said Loigerot
joyfully.

Where is Mademoiselle Marie ? " asked
the clock-maker.

What have you done with the little
one ? " his wife cried.

** Yes, yes," said Lenoir, with a grin,
*' we are anxious to know what has happened
to mademoiselle."

Madame Carouse did not say a word,
but her face looked white in the gloom as
she peered out at the captain.

He literally trembled, but he did not
speak. He felt devoutly thankful that
Madame Kiesen kept up an incessant cackle.
It gave him time to recover from the shock
he had received, and to face the situation

M 2

at all points ; for, in addition to the dread
of giving food for gossip, natural to a man
of his age and circumstances, as he recovered
from the alarm of his discovery, he
felt keenly that Marie's good character was
involved in her disappearance. A sudden
inspiration came to him.

"This is amusing," he forced a laugh.
*' I came to find you, Madame Boileau.
Mademoiselle Marie wants you, and I have
something to tell you as we go along.
Come, let me take you home. You will
not mind a little walk."

He opened the carriage door and let down
the steps, then he took the old woman's
hand and drew her out of the carriage in
such a masterful way that she meekly obeyed.

But you will be tired, madame," the
widow spoke sweetly, for a sudden relief
had come to her with the captain's words ;
just now she had been seized with a

horrible fear when she saw Captain Loigerot
standing alone under the gas-light.

Do not wait ; go on," said Loigerot.

Good night ! " Madame Carouse said
as the carriage rolled away.

*amon Dieu!" said Madame Boileau,
"how thankful I am ! It is such a relief
to hear that the dear child is safe. When
I saw you alone, monsieur, I nearly fainted.
I had sent Lenoir to find you in the
gardens, and when he came back without
tidings I said to myself, ' Mon Dieu ! it is
all right ; Marie is with the captain, he
will take care of her ; and, as it is dark,
no one will notice my absence ; besides, he
is almost her husband.' So I came along
with Madame Carouse, and "

"Please to tell me, madame  the captain's
voice was very harsh, and his manner
was rude  " what all this means ? Where
is Marie ? What have you done with the

little girl ? You know very well she is
not with me "

*' She is not with you ! " the old woman's
alarm was too real to be mistaken, and as
his frown softened she flew at him, and
grasped his arm. '* I  I, indeed ! what
have I done with her 1 What do you mean,
monsieur? I left Marie with you. What
have you done with her ? Do you venture
to tell me you have not taken her home ? "

She was in such rage and terror that she
shook her fist in his face.

It only wanted a trifle to upset the rest of
the captain's self-control.

Mille diables," he said roughly, *' do not
be an old fool. I wash my hands of you
and Marie too. Do you think I'll marry a
girl who runs away by herself in the dark ? '*
and he swore at her roundly.

Madame Boileau was cowed, and she saw
that she must be prudent.

** There is no use in quarrelling'* she said.
'* We can settle that when we have found
the naughty girl. But do you mean, monsieur,
that you went away, that you left the
gardens without her ? "

'confound you! I tell you I missed her
suddenly ; she  she went away. I thought
she had gone to you. I have been to the
Red Glove but she is not there. I have
been to her lodging; she is not there,"
he said, with slow and angry emphasis.
*' Diable ! what am I to think ? "

Madame Boileau stood thinking. She
slowly recovered herself. "What does monsieur
propose to do ? " she said at last, very
quietly, for she began to fear that it might
be left to her alone to find the lost girl.

"I am going back to the gardens, madame.
When I find I have lost my way, I go back
to the place I started from. It seems to me
possible, I only say possible," he said gravely,

*that the poor child felt ill, and she may still
be sitting, waiting for me, under the trees
at the Schiinzli."

He turned away. Before he had gone
many steps, he came back to Madame Boileau.


"You, madame," he puffed out his words
sententiously, "had better wait here. There
is a bench not far off. You must wait here
till I come back. If she passes you will see
her ; do you understand ? We must not let
her slip through our fingers."

He rolled rapidly away over the bridge.

Holy Virgin I he treats me as if I was
the dirt under his feet." Madame Boileau's
eyes gleamed with anger. " It must
be bed-time. I am tired to death. I will
give that hussy a beating to-night if I never
give her another ; and then I will not lose
sight of her again until she is Madame
Loigerot."

STARLIGHT.

The little stars sat one by one
Each on his golden throne."

Lord Houghton.

0 grim thing written or graven

But grows, if you gaze on it, bright ;

A lark's note rings from the raven,
And tragedy's robe turns white ;

And shipwrecks drift into haven ;
And darkness laughs, and is light.

Grief seems but a vision of madness ;
Life's key-note peals from above,
With nought of it more of sadness

Than broods on the heart of a dove :
At sight of you, thought grows gladness,
And life, thro' love of you, love."

Swinburne, Daytime in Midwinter.

You are not coming with us," Madame
Carouse had said to Eudolf Engemann, and
there was tender reproach in her eyes.

Engemann pressed her hand and whispered,
" I will see you later."

And now, as he stood looking after the
carriage as it drove away from the gates
of the Schanzli, he felt a strange mixture
of relief and perplexity. At last he was
free from the spell which had kept him
beside the widow ; he was free to think
over all that had happened. But there
were still several lingerers near the ,
and he turned back into the
gardens, for he wanted to be alone.

He found the walk beside the terrace
already deserted, and going a little way
across the grass which bordered it, he flung
himself on a bench under the trees. Here,
t least, he was safe from intrusion ; the
trees overhead increased the gloom around
him, and he sighed with a pleasant sense of
freedom as he leaned back against the tree-trunk
to which the bench was fixed, and
clasped his hands behind his head.

Engemann had lived very much alone,
and he was not quick-witted, and both
these causes made it difficult for him to
disentangle his thoughts when he was with
others. The glow of feeling which he had
experienced beside Madame Carouse had
created in him a mental disturbance, a sort
of chaos, which he longed to set in order.

His first idea was that he had gone too far
with her to draw back ; well, so be it, Marie
was lost to him, nothing mattered now, he
might as well try to make Madame Carouse
happy. Then, as the events of the evening
passed in review before him, he started up
from his seat and began to walk up and
down : he frowned, and it was easy to see
that he was suffering mentally. But he
turned resolutely from the thought of
Marie, and seated himself once more on
the bench.

'' I do not wish to draw back." His
thoughts went on to Madame Carouse and

o o

her tenderness. " I care quite enough for
her  to make her a good husband, and I
believe she cares for me. If I can make
her happy, that is all that is necessary to
such a plain man as I am." Yes, he must
speak out to her to-night ; but he wished
there could have been a longer delay.
Though Marie was nothing to him, yet

'' I was a fool to come here," he cried
out, " to run the chance of seeing her
again. This stillness makes the bitterness
still worse. Oh, Marie I can you
be false and worldly, when you look as-pure
and true as an angel might ? How
is one to believe in anything ? " The poor
fellow groaned in his anguish. Marie's
sweet face rose before him as he had seen
it last at the *eked Glove," with that look
of pathetic entreaty in her soft gray eyes.

*I will not believe it," he said, "she
is true, there has been some terrible mistake

; if Marie is deceitful, then no woman
can be true."

After this lie remained dumb, while a
tempest of sorrow swept over him  and
then came reaction. Reality asserted itself,
reminded him of Marie smiling in the
captain's face and blushing with pleasure
at his admiration.

Good heavens ! " the young fellow said
furiously, " how could she bear it ? The
odious old baboon."

It was easier now to go back to Madame
Carouse. Yes, he had gone too far to
delay ; his attentions had perhaps compromised
her, he must marry her.

And then his lower nature came to help
him, called up the image of the beautiful
woman who had shown him such favours
-and revealed sweet possibilities of love in
her deep passionate eyes. Then, too, she
could remove all anxiety from his life ;

she could give him ease and comfort, the
means of travelling  a wish so near his
heart that he let his thoughts go out toit
gladly, as to an escape from the miserable
feelings which he knew would return.

All at once he thought he heard a voice
among the trees. Kudolf listened, but all
was again silent. Overhead, the stara
were beginning to show themselves, large
and luminous, shining with a pure, peaceful
light that calmed him. He sat gazing
at them, and he felt quieter, less bitter
toward Marie.

I do not know why I call the poor
child false," he said. ** I have never asked
for her love ; I have never even said a
word of love to her. Ah, but," he said
impetuously, " words where not needed.
I did not hide what I felt for her, and
she  well, her eyes told me more than she
knew  if they spoke truly."

He got up again and paced up and
down the grass, angry with his own weakness
; he knew that he had himself recalled
the temptation. The only safety would
be in putting a barrier between himself
and his love for Marie.

What am I about ? " his thoughts went
on. *' I have no right even to think of
Marie, I belong to another woman. What
I have to do is to marry that woman
and make her happy'' He set his teeth
defiantly, and then he laughed. " One
impression effaces another," he said. "I
suppose people will say I am a very lucky
fellow. Well, perhaps I am. She is rich
and beautiful and she loves me. I dare say
I shall soon forget this evening, or think of
it as a foolish dream. . . . There ! it is done
with I am due at the Hotel Beauregard, I
am going to be very happy, I have played
the fool long enough this evening."

He said this sturdily enough, but he did
not at once turn towards the entrance-gate.
He again paced up and down, striving for
calm and for relief from the bitterness
which made the duty he had set himself
so distasteful.

'* I should have stayed with Madame
Carouse," he said angrily, * and then she
would have kept me fascinated, and left meno
time to think in. Well, I will marry
her as soon as she likes, and then all this
folly will pass out of remembrance."

But still he kept pacing up and down.

What is that ? " he stopped. " Is anyone
in there ? " he called out. He peered in
among the trees. There was certainly a
noise ; it sounded like a person sobbing.
He stood still listening with strained ears.
Ah," he said ;  a louder sob reached him ;
he turned into the darkness and made his
way under the trees.

As he advanced he made out a figure on
a seat placed against the outside fence ; it
was a woman, her light gown showed dimly
in the gloom. His steps sounded on the
twigs and dead leaves, and at the noise the
figure raised its head  the sobbing ceased.

It is a woman in trouble," Engemann
said. " Poor soul !  but she will get locked
in. I will tell her she must not stay here."

By this time he had reached the seat,
and he felt puzzled how to act. The woman
kept her head turned away, as if she
thought this would shield her from discovery
; and indeed it was too dark to see
her face, the trees formed so thick a canopy
overhead.

Engemann bent down.

*' Madame," he said gently, " I beg your
pardon. You are perhaps a stranger, and
you do not know that the gardens will soon
be closed for the night."

VOL. Ill N

The figure gave a sudden start, but there
was no answer, and he waited. He began
to distinguish better as his eyes accustomed
themselves to the gloom, and he saw that the
woman clasped her fingers tightly together.
"You are in trouble." Engemann felt
strangely moved by this deep sorrow before
him. *' Can I be of use to you ? "

Please go away  you cannot help me,"
came in a broken, disguised voice.

But he recognised it. The shock of his
surprise struck him dumb. He stood thrilled
with strong emotion, unable to believe that
he had really heard Marie's voice.

What does this mean ? " he said at last ;
then, stooping, he took hold of her arm,
drew her gently up from the seat, and far
too much moved to care for anything but
certainty, he hurried her out of the shadow
of the trees to the open space, where it was
lighter. Then, as he held her by both hands,

the better light showed him her pale, tearstained
face, which she sought vainly to hide
from his gaze.

"Mademoiselle Peyrolles,"he said severely,
' what does this mean ? Why are you here
alone ? Where is Captain Loigerot ? "

As he said the name he let go her hands,
and they fell straight beside her.

I do not know where he is ; I do not care.
Please go away, monsieur. I wish to be
alone. "

She spoke sullenly, and turned to go back
among the trees.

"You cannot stay here, mademoiselle,
it is against the rules of the place," he said.
"I will take you out of the gardens, and
then I will see you safely home''

"I have no home," she said, in the same
sullen voice.

Then she ran back among the trees, and
he heard that she was sobbing again.

N 2

Engemann stood for a moment irresolute;
then he went after her.

Marie had not gone far ; he found her
leaning against a tree, sobbing and quivering
with anguish, for indeed it seemed to
her that she had become an outcast ; it did
not signify what happened to her now.

Her distress softened him. "Poor child,"
he said gently, "you have, I suppose, lost
your friends. You had better go home at
once. Or shall I "  he could hardly get the
words out  "shall I go and find Captain Loi-grot
and Madame Boileau and send them
to you ? I will do this if you prefer it."

She turned to him and held out her hands
beseechingly.

No, no, for pity's sake, monsieur, do not
do not tell them where I am. I do not
want to see either of them again."

A sudden glow of hope spread over Enge-
mann.

'* Marie"  he caught her hands passionately
in his  '' what do you mean ? Which
is the truth ? Are you the girl I saw just
now smiling on the captain's arm ? or are
you really feeling this sorrow ? Which is
your true self? What has changed you in
this short time ? "

Marie drew her hands away, but she
checked her tears.

I have not changed, monsieur ; indeed
I always try to be true," she said, in a
broken voice.

Then why did you promise yourself to
Captain Loigerot ? "

Marie looked up at him in surprise ; he
had forgotten everything but her presence ;
but she remembered quite well that he was
engaged to marry Madame Carouse, and
that she must not betray her feelings to
him.

What else could I do, monsieur ?

Madame Boileau had arranged it all, she
is my guardian," she said quietly ; " what
could I do?"

Then you did not care for the
captain ? "

She longed to say " Yes "  this would end
his questioning  but she could not.

"No, monsieur, I was very unhappy."

And yet you agreed to marry him.
Oh, Marie ! " he went on passionately
"you knew  you must have seen that I
loved you  " She started violently.  " And
just because that old man is rich you agreed
to marry him without giving me a chance."

You  loved  me ! " broke from her intones
of wonder. She hesitated ; then she
raised her eyes to his. " Are you sure,,
monsieur?" she said sadly. "I was told
you loved some one else, and then "

"And then?"

He had taken her hand aixain.

*' And then nothing seemed to signify,"
the poor child said. Her face was hot with
shame, though she knew the darkness hid
it.

*' You love me then, darling'' She looked
at him timidly, and he did not wait for
words. " Darling Marie ! " he whispered.

Marie was greatly frightened when she
felt his arm round her waist, but she was
very happy too. That strong arm was such
a safe shield and resting-place ; all trouble
seemed to melt away at the touch of it.

Darling Marie," he repeated, ** my sweet
one ! " and he kissed her.

THE CAPTAIN LEARNS THE TRUTH.

The best-laid schemes o' mice and men
Gang aft ashley ;
And leave us not but grief and pain
For promised joy."

Burns.

Any man may commit a mistake, but none but a
fool will continue in it."  Cicero.

An irritable bachelor " is a common
saying ; but the fact that " a single man'*
as he is called, has no one with whom to
share his troubles, ought to excuse the unwillingness
with which he submits his back
to any burden hid on it. Perhaps, too,
having no other legitimate back on which

to lay the blame of disasters, he has a habit
of bestowing blame freely in all directions.

It is certain that by the time Captain
Loigerot had reached the steep approach
to the Schanzli he had considerably eased
his mind by the amount of abuse mingled
Tvith some unsavoury epithets, which, as
lie went along, he bestowed on Madame
Eobineau.

"It is indecent behaviour," he said,
savagely, at last pulling himself up, and
setting his hat firmly ; *' there is no other
word for the conduct of an old woman
who leaves a girl to run about alone in
the dark. Tonnerre ! what would have
become of little Marie's character if I had
not had presence of mind ? Ah, that is
a quality, Achille, that one makes acquaintance
with when one comes suddenly on
an ambush or a masked battery. Ma foi !
when I remember Yell, well, I shall

keep the dear girl amused with my stories
one of these days ; though, indeed, I  I am
not going to forgive her at once. No, no ;
she shall ask me to take pity on her. To
run about alone in the dark ! Bon Dieu ! But
then if the little rascal smiles at me with
her sweet eyes and mouth, it will be allover
with me in a moment, so take care,.
Achille ; you must keep a steady hand and

your eyes wide open Hallo ! stop t

Who the devil Why, Marie ! "

While he was absorbed in these reflections
he had nearly rolled against Enge-
mann, who came rapidly down the road with
Marie on his arm. " Sapristi ! " he exclaimed
when he saw who they were. " What have
you been doing with mademoiselle, Monsieur
Engemann ? "

Then he stood, choked and silenced by
his anger and surprise. But Marie snatched
quickly at his right hand, and in spite

of his resistance Engemann seized on the
other.

Pardon me, monsieur' Marie said.

*' Monsieur," said Engemann, " you have
been badly used, and it has been my
fault "

No, no, monsieur," Marie interrupted,
*rit was my fault; I was much the worst
You have been deceived. I  I cannot
marry you, monsieur."

Deceived ! Cannot marry me ! What
nonsense are you talking ? What have you
done ? " The captain roared as he pulled
his hands roughly away ; he stood gasping
for breath, his legs spread apart like a large
inverted V. He looked so stern that the
girl's voice trembled.

I mean, monsieur, that you have been
deceived by my cousin."

'' Deceived ! " he puffed out angrily ;
** it is you who are deceived, mademoiselle ;.

you have promised yourself to me with the
consent of your guardian, and you are not
of age ; therefore you cannot take back that
promise."

*' Monsieur," Marie cried, " listen ; oh !
do please listen. I have "

Loigerot backed away from her outstretched
hand. " Do not touch me," he
said bitterly. " You are a heartless girl."

But Marie clasped both hands round his
arm. She did not feel shy of him now ; for,
although he might perhaps part her from
her lover, something told her he would not
compel her to marry him if he knew that
she loved Monsieur Engemann.

Monsieur "  she looked frankly at
him  *you are very angry with me now,
sand I do not wonder ; but, indeed, monsieur,
you should have been angry with
me when I said I would marry you. It was
wicked of me when I did not care fur you."

Loigerot turned away his head. It was
much lighter out here on the road than it
had been under the trees in the Schanzli
and Marie saw that he had turned a deep red.

Monsieur' she went on, " be pitiful ;.
do not judge me too hardly ; and  and,
monsieur, surely you cannot care for a
girl who does not love you  who never
could love you."

'* Then why did you lie ? Why did you
consent to marry me, you little deceiver 1 "

He did not trust himself to look at her,
and he spoke in a rude, blustering voice
over his shoulder.

** It was ]madame Boileau," Engemann
began.

Marie looked at her lover.

Please to go a little back ? " she said
timidly ; the girl began to feel that she
had greatly wronged this good, kind man
by her weakness. Love and Captain

Loigerot had seemed incompatible ; but
she now felt that she had misjudged
him, that she had been altogether selfish
in regard to him. " Monsieur," she clasped
her hands and looked earnestly in his face,
** please listen to me: I will tell you the
simple truth. I have been a thoughtless
girl  heartless, too, perhaps ; but indeed I
did not mean to be. I thought I was doing
right. Madame Boileau said you wanted
to marry me, and she said she would take
away my character and tell every one I had
behaved badly, unless I obeyed her ; she said
if I did not consent to marry you she would
give me up, and that no one else would
employ me. I am friendless, monsieur, and
I was miserable ; I did not know what todo,
and so I said *Yes.' I have been very
wrong and foolish, monsieur ; but  but now
I should be wicked if I were to marry you."
Something in the last words struck the

captain. Engemann's silence had quieted
his first suspicions, he turned round and
looked at Marie.

What do you mean ? " he said crossly ;
very crossly indeed, for the sight of her
fair imploring face made his disappointment
yet keener. ''Do you mean, by chance,
that you had a fancy for Monsieur Enge-
mann, eh, you pretty little jilt ? '

Marie hung her head, and made no
answer.

*' Did Madame Boileau know this ? " he
said savagely.

Marie's courage was nearly gone. His
rude manner frightened her. She wished
she had not asked her lover to go away.

"Madame Boileau told me that  that
I cared for Monsieur Engemann," she said ;
*but I  I never knew he cared for me
till  till just now''

Loigerot swore loudly and violently, and

Marie drew back in alarm. Engemann had
been burning with impatience, at this he-came
forward and stood beside her.

Monsieur, you must not be angry with
Mademoiselle Marie. You must please
listen to me. I have been a blind fool, and
I have caused much of this trouble. Instead
of judging for myself, I believed what I
was told. I thought Mademoiselle Marie-cared
for you, and I  well, I gave up in
despair. We have all been deceived, but I
have acted like a fool''

The captain stood still in the middle of
the road twisting his moustache, and the
young pair kept silence, like culprits awaiting
their sentence. Loigerot pulled at hi
moustache unmercifully, but it brought him
no aid in the shape of counsel ; he had
hardly known till now how fund he had
become of Marie, and it was very bitter ta
him to lose her. All at once he broke into a

laugh  it was hardly cheerful, it sounded
so derisive.

*' You call yourself a fool, do you, monsieur
? For a fool you seem to have done
very well for yourself. It seems to me you
have known how to arrange matters to
your own advantage. / was the fool to be
persuaded into thinking of a wife so much
younger than myself Mademoiselle
Marie," he said slowly, *' I forgive you. I
will not force myself upon you ; but it is
harder to me than  than you know  I  I
am very fond of you. Mademoiselle Marie."

"Ah, monsieur, how good you are !" she
caught his hand and pressed it between
both hers.

But he drew it away. "There, there,
child," he said. " Leave me alone, it seems
to me you have been hardly used by your
cousin  the old hag. I am not going to
forgive the way she has used me. She has

VOL. III. o

behaved shamelessly, she shall pay for it all ;
I am going back to tell her she is an old
devil. Come with me, mademoiselle."

He looked at Marie as if he were not
aware of Engemann's presence, but the
young man seized his hand.

You are a trump, captain," he said ;
not one in a hundred would have been
so generous."

Loigerot drew his hand away roughly.
*' I have nothing to do with you, monsieur.
You are nobody. Not worth that," he
snapped his fingers with contempt. ** What
I shall do is for Mademoiselle Marie, and
for her alone."

I feel that you have cause to despise
me," Kudolf said, '* and I feel too that only
you, monsieur, have power to shield Marie
from Madame Boileau's anger."

Loigerot shrugged his shoulders.

'* I make no promises, but I think I have

]power over the old woman. But with you,
monsieur, I have nothing to do  absolutely
nothing."

Then he turned his back on Engemann,
and taking Marie's hand he tucked it under
his arm.

'* Mademoiselle," he said gravely, ''I
am at your service, if you will do me the
honour to accept any help I can give you.
Come along."

Marie had strained her courage to the
utmost while she pleaded with the captain.
Now she could hardly keep back her tears,
and her fingers trembled so much that the
good man was deeply touched.

Courage, mademoiselle, all shall go
well," he said. He pulled out his handkerchief
and blew his nose violently.

Eudolf Engemann thought it was wiser

to follow at a little distance. It was

natural, he thought, that the sight of him



should irritate the captain ; his old esteem
for Loigerot had come back, and he felt
implicit trust in him.

'* Mademoiselle Marie," said the captain as
they walked on, *' I am very angry with
Madame Boileau, and, I promise you, I
shall not spare her ; but she has cause to be
angry with you, and be sure she will not
spare you. Two wrongs will never make one
right ; but I may be able to quiet her ;
she is too wise or crafty to quarrel with
me.

Oh ! I don't know how to thank you,"
said Marie in broken words ; " you are very
good to me, and I will pray that you maybe
rewarded for your kindness, and that
you may soon find a girl more deserving
than I am to marry."

He broke into a hearty laugh.

*' Not if I know it, my beauty. In truth, I
am too old for courting ; this kind of thing is

too much trouble for me ; it excites me more
than soldiering did. I did very well before
I saw you, and in future I shall let well
alone. Ah ! here is the bridge ! We shall
find Madame Boileau at the further end
of it. Courage, my little girl ; remember
Achille Loigerot is your friend."

"flUN TO EARTH."

He that is thy friend indeed,
He will help thee at thy need."

Passionate Pilgrim.

The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices

Make instruments to scourge us."

King Lear.

Madame Boileau had grown very tired of
waiting.

** I am a fool to stop in tins draughty
place, just because that old captain bid me
stay' she grumbled to herself; *' it is not
safe to sit here in the night air ; it is
enough to give me rheumatism. A plague

upon girls, and men too ! It is inconceivable
what a trouble they are. Good Lord ! that
at my age I should be ordered about as if I
were a school-girl ! "

She tried to console herself with a big
pinch of snuflP ; then she sat shivering and
grumbling. Her thoughts soon went back
to Marie. What could have become of the
naughty, headstrong girl ? It was incredible
that she could have behaved so
badly, though as to that, all girls were alike
untrustworthy ; still, she had been better
than most of them till now.

The old woman had restrained her anger
against the girl before the captain ; but she
felt furious as she thought of Marie's base
ingratitude. She did not believe that she
was still in the gardens  but here Madame
Boileau found herself pulled up short in
her meditations. Where could Marie have
gone ? She had no friends in Berne ; she

could not stay out all night, she was not
bad enough for that.

All at once the old woman remembered
that when she asked what had become
of Monsieur Engemann, Madame Eiesen
had said he was going to walk home.

*amon Dieu ! " she cried out in sudden
terror, *' suppose they meet''

The old woman began to shake as if she
had ague ; her terror lifted the hair from her
forehead, and she wrung her withered hands
in despair at the idea that suggested itself.
It was too wicked, too infamous, that two
meritorious and honourable persons like
Madame Carouse and Captain Loigerot
should have their feelings outraged for the
sake of a chit like Marie.

** Engemann is only a fool, but that does
not lessen the danger," she said, in her
anger. " Those big men are always fools ;
they are like lambs, they do all that a woman

tells them to do. The forward chit has
implored him to take pity on her, and 
merciful Heaven ! what may not have
happened ? I shall be ruined ; I must be
quick, or Madame Carouse will think I
had a hand in it. She must be told
directly."

She rose up quickly ; she forgot her
fatigue, her promise to the captain to await
his return, and she went hobbling down
the road till at last she came to the turning
that led to the Hotel Beauregard. The longstreet
was as quiet as the grave ; but when
she reached the clock-tower she saw Moritz
the waiter standing outside the entrance
to the hotel, looking about as if he expected
some one.

*' Good evening, madame."

His eyebrows rose with surprise as the
old woman turned to come in.

"Madame is in her parlour. I can see

her' she said, more as a statement than asa
question.

Moritz bowed and turned to lead the
way, while she followed slowly.

The impulse which had driven her to
seek Madame Carouse was already checked
by the fear that now overcame her. She
knew how the widow could look and speak
when she was angry, and Madame Boileau's
knees grew weak at the remembrance. She
felt that she had been fool-hardy to bring
such tidings, and she had half resolved to
tell Moritz she would not intrude on his
mistress, when she heard him announce her.
It was evident that Madame Carouse was
at the window of her room, and retreat had
become impossible.

"Madame Boileau ! " she heard the
widow say in a wondering tone, and the
old glover turned the corner and met herat
the open door.

The lamps were lighted, and the goldfish,
swimming in the basin of the fountain,
showed brilliantly through the overhanging
ferns and palms. Madame Carouse had
laid aside her bonnet ; her beautiful head
was slightly thrown back as she nodded
to the old woman.

'' Ah, how do you do again ? " She
spoke languidly ; then, as soon as Moritz
had departed, she closed the door and the
window, and turned sharply to Madame
Boileau. *what are you sighing and
panting about ? Has anything happened,
madame ? " she said. She did not even
ask her to sit down.

I will rest if you please ; I am
tired to death." Madame Boileau
dropped into a chair. In spite of her
alarm the old woman saw that the beauty
was moved out of her ordinary self-possession,
and this gave her confidence.

*'I can go no further  pouf!  I seem to
have been running about for hours trying
to find that child."

'* Do you mean Marie ? "

Madame Carouse had remained standing,
but now she put her hand on the back of a
chair. She looked pale, Madame Boileau
thought.

Yes, madame. That wicked old man
deceived us. Marie did not go home with
him ; he says he knows nothing about her.
While he turned his head, he says, she ran
away  he missed her all at once in
the gardens. Now I ask you, dear
madame, is this likely ? A timid girl like
that would not go away alone among so
many people. What does it all mean ? I
want your advice. What am I to do ?
How am I to find her ? "

** Where is Captain Loigerot ? Is he outside
? I will see him, and question him."
The widow spoke severely. "He is the

person to explain all this. Marie was left
with him. I saw her on his arm, smiling
and looking as happy as possible under his
admiring glances."

You saw her ? " Madame Boileau
pricked up her ears ; her way was becoming
easier.

"Yes, I was-walking with Monsieur
Engemann. We both saw her, and we
both offered our congratulations to her and
to Captain Loigerot."

Ah ! " and then Madame Boileau
checked herself. The mystery was becoming
clearer. She half closed her sly
old eyes while she pictured to herself the
girl's vexation ; no doubt Marie had runaway
to avoid the sight of this happy pair.

Madame Carouse no looser held her head
erect. The old woman, seated at a little
distance on the sofa, was roused to attention
by her silence ; she-watched her with the
intensity of a cat sure of its prey, though

in Madame Boileau's eyes a glitter of
fear was mingled with the tense gaze she
kept on the pale, anxious face of the
widow.

'* Where is Captain Loigerot ?" suddenly-said
Madame Carouse. *' Why don't you
answer me ? "

*' He went back to the gardens to look
for Marie. He said the child micfht be
there still ; he told me I was to wait at the
bridge ; but, mon Dieu ! I could wait no
longer in the dark. I was too anxious,
and I wanted your advice, dear madame."

Madame Carouse walked up and down
the small room. She dared not speak lest
the terrible fear, that racked her till it
seemed as if she could no longer endure the
pain it gave, should shape itself in words.
By degrees she grew quieter, and when she
spoke again to Madame Boileau, the
sharp-eyed old woman was surprised at her
calm tone.

'* I am trying to think for you, madame,
and it is not easy," she said. "First, I
must tell you that you have been greatly
to blame  shamefully careless. You must
remember, I warned you that you were not
fit to be the guardian of such a girl as Marie,
and that the ' Eed Glove' was not a fit place
for her. Hush ! you must not interrupt ! "
She fixed her eyes imperiously on Madame
Boileau, and the colour came back to her
own face. " Marie will be found," she said
bitterly. '* I feel sure the captain will
discover her and bring her home. No
doubt she got tired of him and slipped
away. Now listen to me. You must tell
the girl that you will not force on the
marriage with Captain Loigerot at present,
but that you cannot keep her at the ' Red
Glove ' after her disgraceful conduct. She
has thrown away her character this evening.
Do you understand ? She has lost her character,
she has disgraced you. You know

it is possible the captain will be very angry,
and no one can wonder if he is."

Yes, but he will forgive her, he is very
fond of the child," said Madame Bobinean.
'she will not "

Be quiet, will you ? " and another frown
silenced the old woman. " I will have your
shop minded tomorrow, and you must see
that child off to Lucerne, she must not stay
another day in Berne. Take her back to
her friends at St. Esprit. I will pay all expenses,
and I will write to the Superior,
and explain the affair to her. You understand
? Marie must not remain in Berne
after tomorrow. I have your authority, I
imagine, madame," she went on with a
sneer, " for saying that the girl is bold and
indiscreet, and requires training till she can
conduct herself more modestly."

"How good you are !  always good, always
beautiful." In her relief, Madame Boileau

took a huge pinch of snuff, and brought
tears into her eyes. "Yes, indeed," she
whimpered ; " what you say is indeed
true, dear lady. Marie is very forward. I
have seen her look at that noble young
man, Monsieur Engemann, in a way that 
that had he not been devoted to you, might
have led him to notice her. She was so vain ;
I believe she thought he admired her."

Madame Carouse made a quick step forward
with her hand raised, and then she
stopped abruptly.

** Peace, you vile old woman ! How dare
you sit there telling what is your own shame?
At the first glimpse of such behaviour in the
girl, you should have shut the artful hussy
up in a room, and kept her on bread and
water till you had sent her back to her
convent. Why did you not come to me at
once for advice ? How do you know what
has happened to-night ? I am not sure that

VOL. III. p

the wretched girl is fit to be admitted among
those saintly Sisters again  and you are to
blame for it all."

Madame Boileau was really terrified ;
she crouched till her chin almost touched
her knees. She felt as if those fierce black
eyes shot lightning, and the words pelted
her like a storm of hail.

"Yes, yes, madame, I have been to
blame," she said feebly, ''I will take her
away; I will do all you say. What did you
say I was to tell Marie ? "

*why do you not listen? You are not to
say a word about my advice in the matter.
You are to tell the girl she has lost her
character by this misconduct; that you cannot
keep her at the * Eed Glove and that
she must go back at once to her convent.
She will be glad enough to go to escape
the captain's anger. I tell you that a few
weeks of dull convent life, now that she

has had a peep of the world, will make her
thankful to marry him by-and-by. That is
all I have to say. You can go now."

She stamped her foot impatiently.

At the door Madame Boileau turned
back. In her terror her snuff-box had
slipped from ber hand on to the sofa, and
she felt sorely in need of its comfort.

Madame Carouse turned her back on her
while she went to look for it, and stood
bending over her desk till the old woman
had disappeared.

Meantime Marie had reached her lodofinor.
There had been a little more talk between
her and the captain on the way ; but lately
they had been silent, and indeed the girl
was exhausted with the varied emotions she
had gone through during the evening. She
longed to be alone.

Engemann followed them, but he felt

p 2

that it was wiser to leave Loigerot in peace.
He was surprised and puzzled at what had
happened ; but still he felt he could trust
implicitly the little round man who rolled
along with Marie on his arm.

When they reached the door of her
lodging, the captain took the girl's hand
in his.

"My child," he said, "you have done
well to trust me. I will be your friend.
It would  aw  it would have been better
for us all if you had trusted me at the
beginning. Yes, Mademoiselle Marie, it
would have been much better."

Marie held his hand a moment ; then,
before he could stop her, she bent down
and kissed it. " Monsieur "  she was crying
now  " you are too good, too kind to me.
I am very, very grateful. I shall always
love you."

Loigerot patted her shoulder. "There,

there," he said, 'not too much of that, or
I may change my mind yet, little one, and
take you at your word."

He cleared his throat, and in quite another
voice he said to Engemann :

** Monsieur, you can say * good-night' to
mademoiselle."

He stood by while they shook hands
formally ; then, when the door of her
lodging had closed on Marie, he looked
at Kudolf from head to foot.

*you are a pretty fellow," he said,
slowly, *' a very pretty fellow, Kudolf
Engemann. Grand diable ! you quiet ones
play the deuce with the women ; but you
ought to look happier than you do to
have won the favour of two such women
as these  eh, mon Dieu ! I tell you so.
Well, what the devil do you mean to do
with the widow ? Let me tell you you
have treated her very badly."

Certainly Eudolf Engemann did not look
like a happy lover ; he had a limp, dejected
aspect as he returned the captain's
humorous stare.

Monsieur," he said, " you are right ; I
have behaved badly ; I feel like a fool.
But first of all I must beg your pardon 
yes, I was very rude to you, unjust too,
while you have been most generous and
forbearing. Well, to-night I had grown desperate
: if I had not found Marie miserable
among the trees up at the Schanzli, I
believe I should have gone on to the
hotel, as I had promised, and I should
have proposed to Madame Carouse."

The captain snapped his fingers triumphantly.


*' Then you have not proposed to her ?
Mon Dieu ! that is good news, thundering
good news, indeed ; " he slapped his leg emphatically.
" You are wiser than I thought.

I fancied she had hooked you long ago,
and that you had been playing fast and
loose between her and my little Marie."
Then, as he looked at Engemann's troubled
face, " Tonnerre ! what is the matter now ?
You have got the love of a sweet, virtuous
girl. You do not deserve your good fortune,
my lad, if you cannot enjoy it," he said.

*' I told you I was miserable and desperate,"
the young fellow said moodily,
and  and although I did not propose in
so many words, I have paid Madame
Carouse more attention this evening than I
ever did before. I even said I would call
on her, I know she is even now expecting
me. I have behaved very badly to her ;
what am I to do ? "

They had walked on side by side, and
now they stood beneath the Eed Glove.
It seemed to point its fat scarlet thumb
derisively at Engemann, and one might

have fancied that his words were echoed
up there from its dark perch :

'* What am I to do  to do ?

Rudolf looked so disconsolate that the
captain forgot everything but his amusement
; he stuffed his hands into his pockets,
and laughed till the tears came to his eyes.
As soon as he could speak he said :

*' That is excellent. What are you to do ?
You should have counted the cost sooner.
What are you to do ? That is a pretty
question for a smart Don Juan like you to
put to a man of my years. I will tell you
what you cannot do, my fine fellow. Ma
foi ! you cannot keep them both."

The captain laughed again till the Red
Glove, in the faint night wind, seemed to
sway backward and forward in sympathy
with his mirth.

Engemann turned impatiently away; the
captain's laughter tried his temper.

'' Well, monsieur, I am at your mercy ;
I know I have been foolish, but there seems
only one way left. I must go to Madame
Carouse and tell her the truth like a man ;
it is the fairest way. Good night."

And he went off into the darkness under
the arcade.

** Hold ! stop ! stop ! Are you mad 1 "
and there was the captain panting and
holding on to the skirts of the young
fellow's coat. *' What a devil of a pace !
Whew !  stop  my fine fellow," he gasped.

It took Loioferot a few minutes to recover
his breath ; then he put his arm into Enge-
mann's, and led him back to the " Eed
Glove." He opened the private door and
pointed to him to go in.

Upon my word ! " he said. ** I am a
bachelor, but I might as well be a father,
for the trouble I have had to-night among
the set of you. Go upstairs quietly, my

boy, and get to bed as fast as you can ; and
then, if you can, go to sleep. You go to
the widow and tell her the truth ! You
might as safely walk up to the mouth of
cannon in action as trust yourself with her
to-night." He stopped to laugh again.

"But my promise ? I said I would see
her again to-night."

The captain looked at the young fellow
out of his half-closed eyes.

Your promise ! Pie-crust  you understand
? You are as fit to see her, my
young friend, as a bird is to interview a
hungry cat. No, no ; you leave the widow
to me. She is a fine creature and full of
goodness, no doubt  but she is a widow
in love, and that is the devil. Poor thing !
I am sorry for her, though ; she has been
hardly used. But she and I are in the
same boat, and we must console each other.
Listen," he said, in his pompous manner.

"aw  I will manage the affair. I will
let her sleep over it, and tomorrow I will
bring her round famously ; it will be difficult,
and  but don't you be afraid. There !
there ! be off. Be quiet, I tell you ! " 
as the young fellow began to pour out
his gratitude. " I don't say I have forgiven
you yet for robbing me of that sweet
child ; you make her a good husband, that's
all, and perhaps after a bit I'll forgive you.
Now for the old hag; she shall get it," he said
to himself, when the young fellow had gone
upstairs, *for she has made all the mischief.
I must find out if she has come in yet."

He lit a cigar, and then he called gently
for Madame Boileau. It was possible
that she had gone home to bed as soon ashe
left her. But the gas in the entrance-passage
was not lighted, and this was an
unusual omission.

No ; she has not come in," he said,

when he had stood for some time listening,
lie shut the door, and went out
into the arcade to wait for the old woman.

He had not long to wait. Before she
saw him, as he stood in the shadow of the
arcade, he saw her crouching figure hobbling
along. She was still trembling from
the effect of her interview with Madame
Carouse, and grumbling to herself, when
all at once she looked up and perceived the
captain standing at the door of her house.

What have you done with Marie ? "
she said, angrily.

** Mademoiselle Peyrolles is safe in her
lodging. Now listen to me. In future,
Madame Boileau, when you dispose of
anything, be careful first to make sure
that it does not belong to some one else.
You have grossly deceived me in regard to
that poor girl."

Madame Boileau was tired and hungry,

and angry besides. All the temper suppressed
by the stronger passion of Madame
Carouse flew out rebelliously. She longed
to fly at the captain ; she would have
pulled his hair and scratched his face if
the remembrance that he was her first-floor
lodger had not restrained her.

"Monsieur," she said, sullenly, 'rit is I
who have reason to complain. I trusted
you with Marie, and you lost her in the
gardens. However, I suppose you and she
have made it up ; so I will say no more
about it to-night, but tomorrow I must
have an explanation."

Sapristi ! you bad old woman, is that
the way you take it ? You will say no
more ! You will have an explanation ! " He
pulled himself together. " This is excellent,
on my soul ; how dare you talk in
this way to me ? Nom de Dieu ! Madame
Boileau," he went on, with dignity,

*' Mademoiselle Marie is my friend; I shall
always have a great regard for her ; but she
will never be anything more than a friend
to me. Poor little girl ! you have used her
shamefully ; you had made her miserable ;
she ran away from me, but she shall not
be scolded for it. I found her in the
dark with her lover, Monsieur Engemann ;
so, you see, madame, if you wish to save her
character, you must let the young people
marry'*

Let them marry ! " she shrieked.
*' Never ! let her marry that clerk, never I
never ! Marie is under age, and I refuse
my consent. I shall take her back to her
convent tomorrow."

Keep yourself quiet, you old fool," he
said in a low voice, ** do you want Madame
Webernn to know all that has happened ?
Come indoors, and light the lamp."

She obeyed sullenly.

Good night, monsieur," she said when

the lamp was lighted. *you will have
changed jour mind by tomorrow."

*' Stop a bit," he said, and he placed himself
in front of the door of her room, his
bulk filling up the narrow passage so that if
she had tried she could with difficulty have
squeezed by him. " You had better understand
me distinctly. I never change a
purpose, madame, unless I find that events
prevent me from carrying it out. I meant
to marry your cousin, but you yourself have
made this impossible."

I !  oh, monsieur, you have been grossly
imposed on. Oh, that wicked little hussy
shall pay for this ! "

Now listen to me, and do not you venture
to speak against the child. I am tired,
and I want to go to bed. So these are the
last words I have to say. You only
are to blame." He had taken his cigar
out of his mouth, and he used it to
emphasise his words as he spoke. ' If

I find that you have said so much as one
unkind word to Mademoiselle Marie, I will
leave your lodgings, and I will let Lenoir
and Eiesen and every one in Berne know of
your infamous conduct. How dare you tell
me that Marie was fond of me and willing
to marry me, when at the same time
you told her that she was fond of young
Engemann ?  and then you leave her in the
gardens alone with me." He shook his
cigar menacingly. '* You have not many
friends ; you will not have one if I open my
mouth, and I will do it unless you obey me.
Marie has compromised herself with that
young man  very well. They shall be
formally betrothed, and then she can go
back to her convent till he is able to
marry her, for marry her he must. Now,
madame, you know the position. Do you
understand ? '

She understood very well, and she

struggled to resist, but her courage failed
her.

"You are very hard on me," she
whimpered.

'eon the contrary, I let you off easily.
And, mark you, madame, if, when Engemann
is ready to marry your cousin, you refuse
your consent, or try any more trickery " 
he frowned till his moustache quivered, and
he looked surprisingly fierce  " bon ; I
shall then know how to deal with you, and
I shall expose the abominable conduct you
have used toward me and Mademoiselle
Marie to all the world." 

He turned his back on her, and walked
deliberately upstairs.

Madame Boileau sat down on the
lowest step, and wrung her hands in
impotent fury.

Horrid, wicked, old man ! I hate
him ! '' she muttered ; " I will  no  no 

VOL. III. Q

he pays me twice as much as any lodger
ever paid before, and he is a friend of
Madame Carouse. Oh, if he were only
some one else."

Madame Boileau was unable to enjoy
her supper, and she went to bed in a
miserable state of mind.

HOW LOIGEROT MANAGED THE WIDOW.

Men were deceivers ever''  Song.

And will he not come again "?
And will he not come aain ? . . .
He never will come again."

Song  Shakespeare.

MoRiTZ the waiter looked disturbed as he
went about his duties this morning. The
hectic flush had spread over his hollow
cheeks, and there was an angry brightness
in his melancholy brown eyes. Evidently
something had gone wrong with the head-waiter
of the Beauregard. If you followed
the direction of his eyes you would soon
have discovered that every time he went

Q 2

in and out of the breakfast-room he glanced
across at his mistress's parlour. Moreover,
he made several needless journeys up and
down stairs, so that he might get a good
look at her.

Indeed Moritz was greatly troubled,
he could not imagine what had happened
to Madame Carouse. Last night he thought
she had looked superb when she started for
the Schanzli, and she had come in blooming
and radiant ; what could have happened to
change her this morning into a pale, heavy-eyed
statue, so silent and preoccupied that
she seemed unable to attend to business,
and had sent away her breakfast untouched ?

Moritz felt that some one had to bear the
blame of this change, and he hesitated
between Madame Bobinciiu and Rudolf
Engcmann.

When Madame Carouse came in last
nilit, she had told Moritz she would
receive Monsieur Ensremann when he

o

called, and the waiter had felt full of
jealous trouble. He adored his beautiful
mistress, and he felt that virtually he was
master at the Beauregard ; the idea that
this bank clerk, some years younger than
himself, was to be set over his head, was
exasperating. When Engemann failed to
appear, and Madame Boileau paid that
short, stormy visit which had attracted his
keen attention, Moritz did not know what
to think.

He had heard all the chatter that Lenoir
could furnish him with ; and indeed the
gossips of Berne had been living on the
events of these double courtships during
the past week. Moritz suspected that 
was playing a double game 
flirting with Marie, while he intended to
marry the widow  and this idea had increased
his dislike of the fair you eg
giant. Eudolf 's coolness and self-possession
always irritated the nervous man, whose

movements were as rapid as his wits were
sharp. That " such a carcase," as he termed
Engemann, without any savoir faire should
aspire to beautiful, wealthy Madame
Carouse, was most audacious. He did
not want her to marry, and that she
should encourage such a dull half-hearted
lover as he appeared to the waiter was
astounding ; at this idea Moritz always
shrugged his shoulders. He knew that his
mistress had had a bad time with Carouse ;
poor soul ! she was not to be blamed if
she thought that his opposite in all respects
was likely to make her happy. " Women
only look outside'' Moritz told himself.

But what, he asked himself, could have
happened to change her in these few hours ?
unless Madame Boileau had brought her
an unpleasant message from Engemann.

The widow had closed both door and
window during the old woman's visit, but

Moritz had heard fragments of the wordy-battle
through the key hole of the door
of communication between his own little
office and his mistress's parlour. This
morning, when breakfast was over and
Engemann did not appear, the head waiter
became certain that something had gone
wrong ; he could do nothing but rush to the
entrance at intervals, and stare expectantly
down the street.

The morning went on, and all the early
breakfasters departed. There was a lull in
the house, but Madame Carouse did not
take advantage of this, as she often did, to
go upstairs to her room.

She sat at her desk trying to add up
the same long column of figures which
had occupied her all the morning. She
had stayed up till midnight waiting for
Engemann, and then she had gone to bed
heart sick and weary, but she had not

slept. She had guessed at some of the
truth while Madame Boileau told her
story ; but for all that she had not given up
the hope of marrying Kudolf Engemann.
He was not to blame, poor fellow ! How
could he help it if that girl had thrown
herself on his protection, and asked him to
deliver her from the captain ? He might
even have felt obliged to see her home.
** The old woman has pressed Marie too
hard," she said ; ** she is a commonplace
tyrant without any tact, and the girl, in
despair, has flung herself on Eudolf
Eugemann's protection."

The keen torment roused by this idea
robbed her of sleep, but she assured herself
that Kudolf had gone too far with her to
draw back. " He is not a man to kiss a
woman's hand, and to look at her as he
looked at me, if he were only trifling. No,
he could not trifle with me ; he is too true

and simple." She repeated this over andover
again, but she could not succeed in
quieting her anxiety.

Matters looked worse to her this morning.
She had risen early, and dressed herself with
extra care ; she sent word, however, to Lenoir
that she did not want his services : she was
really afraid of his keen eyes. Her hope was
that Kudolf would appear earlier than usual;
but he had not even come to breakfast, and
she knew he was already due at the bank.
Last night she had got rid of her anger on
Madame Boileau ; now, as she waited, her
colour began to return, and her eyes, in
spite of their heavy lids, looked dangerous.

"I will not judge him," she kept on
saying vehemently to herself. " His conduct
is of course very strange ; he ought to
have kept his promise, but the dear fellow
may have reasons ; I will not say anything
I may be sorry for later on."

But her heart beat more quickly, and
her colour flickered at the mere sound of
a footstep ; at last she gave up the figures
she was trying to add up as hopeless,
and seated herself on the sofa with a newspaper,
but after a few minutes it lay in her
lap.

Presently Moritz put his head in at the
window. *' Madame, will you see Monsieur
Loigerot ? "

She looked up joyfully.

"By all means; show him in." The
thought came that Kudolf was too modest
to plead for himself  the captain was his
ambassador. " Good morning, captain " 
Madame Carouse went forward and shook
hands cordially, when she saw Loigerot's
bald head bowing down in the doorway.
*' You are early this morning, monsieur."

Then, as he still lingered in the doorway,
she pointed to a chair near the sofa.

But the captain did not sit down ; lie
stood before her with his hat in his hand.

Pardon me, madame  aw  I have a few
important words to say to you privately ; that
is  aw  if you will condescend to listen."

He looked so absurd, so nervous, as he
half closed his eyes and tugged at his
moustache, that the widow could not help
smiling.

With the greatest pleasure, monsieur,"
she said, in her most charming way.
Will you have the goodness to shut the
door ? "

She is divine to look at," Loigerot said
to himself ; " but I believe she's got a devil
of a temper. Engemann is well out of it 
and I wish I was well out of it too."

The captain felt that he understood the
widow, but he also felt that he did not
understand how to manage her.

Well, madame, I am not sure about the

pleasure you may derive from my  aw 
communication," he said nervously ; " but
you are full of charity and sweetness  I
am sure you are, and  and I want to ask
you to do an act of charity. I  I "

He felt stuck here, he looked at her
helplessly.

A charity, monsieur ? Is it a case of
distress ? Yes, indeed, monsieur, you may
count on me ; I am always ready to help
distress. It is so sad to let others go on
suffering," she said pathetically, " when we
have the means of helping them." She
was at once relieved and disappointed ; he
had not come, then, on the errand she hoped.

What is it you wish ? " she said. " Tell
me, monsieur, you can command my purse."

Loigerot had gone on tugging at and
twisting his moustache, and now he felt
that the widow was looking keenly at him,
searching him through and through.

Drops started out on the captain's forehead,
and his tongue felt stiff and useless.
All at once the thought of Marie's imploring,
tear-stained face came to help him.

"You are very kind and quite right,
madame, and I have a case of real distress
to lay before you which you have power
to help  not with money, however. I want
you to befriend little Marie Peyrolles  to
take her part against Madame Boileau."

Madame Carouse's face grew set in a
moment, and her eyes looked hard. She
shook her head.

'* Madame Boileau is the child's
guardian," she said expressively. ** I cannot
interfere."

She began to feel that the ground was
slipping from under her feet.

You are right again, madame," he said
pompously, *' perfectly right. Madame
Boileau is her guardian; but she is 

well, I let her off easy when I say she is a
bad, treacherous woman. She has behaved
shamefully to the poor little girl."

Madame Carouse laughed ; but there
was no music in her laugh. **No, no,
monsieur ; you are too hard on the poor
old woman. It is easy to see that you
have been misinformed. Girls are  well
I cannot, of course, speak unfavourably
to you of Mademoiselle Marie. I will only
say I fear she is prejudiced against her
kind, old cousin ; but why need you
come to me, monsieur? You are surely
Marie's best adviser."

** I "  he had felt this question coming ;
he put up both hands ; then he shrugged
his shoulders. ** Now for it," he thought,
and like the swimmer who shuts his eyes ashe
plunges into the water, he went on, without
looking at Madame Carouse. '' Pardon
me, I forgot, madame, you do not know;

there is still something to be explained to
you. That old woman has deceived the
poor child as much as she has deceived me.
Luckily I made a discovery last night."
The widow had put her hand before her
mouth to hide a yawn ; but at his last
words she listened attentively. " Yes,
madam e, a discovery which will, perhaps,
surprise you as much as it surprised me'*
He raised his hand and pointed a stumpy
forefinger at the widow. "It is not me that
Mademoiselle Marie wishes to marry, it is
Monsieur Rudolf Engemann ; and I have
given her up to him." -

Madame Carouse rose up, her eyes
flashed out brightly on the captain, then
she laughed, but the laugh was not natural.

** Nonsense ! You have been listening
to gossip, monsieur ; you have got your
story upside down ; I cannot let you talk
in this way. I think you are very ungrateful

to talk of giving up the little girl
after all the trouble I have taken for you. As
to Monsieur Engemann," she said derisively,
*' I happen to know, on good authority,
that he  loves some one else. You have
made a very foolish mistake. Captain
Loigerot, and the sooner you set it right
the better for all parties."

The captain reddened at the scorn in her
voice.

I have made no mistake," he said
roughly. " I saw and heard too last night
and judged for myself"

You saw ! " she said vehemently.
What are you talking about ? "

He raised his hand. " Calm yourself,
madame ; you and I are older than these
young people are ; let us be more reasonable.
I have given up my hopes. Will
the * some one else ' you speak of be less
generous ? " She turned angrily away and

walked across the room. Her loss of self-control
had given the captain courage, she
would feel ashamed of herself, he thought,
and be easier to manage ; he rubbed his
hands, he considered his last sentence had
been a very telling manoeuvre. He
followed the widow as she walked. '1
believe'' he said, *that Monsieur Engemann
has not offered himself to the ' some one
else.' Ah, madame, think how young they
are  they are so well matched  and think
how they love one another." He put his
hand on her arm. " I will tell you,
madame, what is to be done."

AVell, monsieur ? "

She turned round, she was listening
eagerly with half-closed eyes and dilated
nostrils.

Loigerot felt encouraged by her silence.
*' Yes, yes ! madame, they love each other
dearly ; you should have seen them together

TOL. III. R

when 1 found them last night  poor love-birds.
I was very stern at first, mind you, I
was very angry, and I told them so ; but they
behaved well, and they threw themselves on
my compassion, and  aw  I saw I must give
in to the force of circumstances' Then he
raised himself on tiptoe, and whispered,
in what he meant for a coaxing tone :
Surely, ' some one else ' does not want
to keep a man who loves another woman."

The captain was not very steady on tiptoe,
and as he looked up earnestly at the
widow, a stinging box on the ear nearly
sent him off his legs.

Take that for your pains, you chattering
busybody," said Madame Carouse, looking
splendid in her fury, as she towered above
the astounded man.

Tonnerre ! " he put one hand to his ear,
and the other to where his sword used
to hang. Then he drew himself up and

smiled. "Madame, I thank you for the
lesson. I am consoled for the loss of my
little wife. Marie is only a kitten at present,
but you  aw  you have shown me what
she might have grown to. Madame, I  I
have the honour to take my leave."

R 2

"papa loiserot."

Nature had formed him of the best and kindliest
clay, had tempered it with her own milk, and breathed
into it the sweetest spirit ; she had made him airgentle,
generous, and humane ; she had filled his h part with
trust and confidence."  Sterne.

It is a holiday in Berne, and although most
of the shops are open, there are plenty of
townspeople in the streets dressed in their
best and bent on enjoying themselves.
Posters here and there announce that in
the evening there will be a concert and a
display of fireworks at the Schanzli ; but
the gay groups arc now on their way to the

bear-pit or the Enge. And already numbers
of strangers have come in by railway, and
are sauntering up the town.

A short, stout man is walking up and
down beside the station with a sort of rolling
gait. Captain Loigerot is as fond of the
sunshine as ever ; but he looks unusually
radiant even for such a bright June day.
He has scarcely aged in the seven years
since his memorable parting with Madame
Carouse ; though his hair is a trifle grayer.
Friends pass him, and he greets them in a
hearty, cheery voice. Now he crosses the
street and consults the clock in the library,
and then with a broad smile he makes
straight for the entrance of the station ; he
stands there with his head thrown back, his
legs planted wide apart, and his moustaches
quivering with expectation.

A rush of passengers comes out and disperses
itself into the various conveyances

and through the streets. Then people come
out more scantily, in twos and threes ; he
peers curiously at them as they pass. But
now he makes a forward movement, and
nearly stumbles over a respectable-looking
bonne in a round straw hat who leads a little
girl by each hand.

It is monsieur le capitaine," says the
bonne ; and she stops and makes a curtsey,
then she draws her charles back into a
corner so that they may greet monsieur le
capitaine.

He is stooping down over them, his face
growing purple with excitement.

*good day, my beauties," he says. "How
well they look! Were there ever such little
angels ! And they have come all the way
from Fribourg to see papa Loigerot ; how
hungry they must be ! "

The two small creatures look at him
frankly as they hold up their faces to be

kissed. ' Jour, papa Loiserot," they say ;
he is plainly an old acquaintance.

They are certainly a lovely pair, fair-skinned,
with fair hair hanging down their
backs in long plaits. They are prettily
dressed too in white, with blue ribbons in
their white straw hats. Marie, the eldest,
has eyes to match her ribbons ; but Cdlie,
a tiny creature of three, is the image of her
mother; and Loigerot gives her an extra
kiss as he bends over her.

Is Celie very hungry, eh ? " he half
closes his eyes, and the child laughs
joyously.

Yes, papa Loiserot," she says in a little
soft voice. '' Celie is very hungry."

That is what I thought, you see." He
winks at the smiling old bonne; he takes first
Celie's hand, and then Marie's, and prepares
to start. *' It is absolutely necessary, Elise,
we should go on very fast to the cake shop.

or it is possible that Mademoiselle Celie may
eat me up by the way."

This seems such a huge joke of "papa
Loiserot's," that the two pretty creatures
laugh across him at one another, till their
walk becomes as rolling as the captain's.

*'He]p yourselves, my jewels' he says,
when they reach the cake shop ; and, while
they swallow cream and chocolate tarts,
more delicious than any they ever dreamed
of, he buys each of them a big box of
bonbons.

During all this time, and until they
have finished their cakes, the captain s face
has been radiant; he cannot take his eyes
from the children, their pretty little ways,
their merry jests and laughter keep him
in an excitement of delight which breaks
out in various expressions ; but, as they
turn into the streets again, the bonne
suggests that Madame Engemann wished

her little girls to go to the '' Red Glove,"
to see Madame Boileau.

Captain Loigerot does not smile at this.

Why should they visit the old "

He is on the point of calling Madame
Boileau " old devil," but the sweet little
faces gazing up into his with sudden amazement
check him just in time.

Madame Boileau can wait," he says
roughly. " There is no time now. I mean
to take them back to the station this afternoon
and then you can start a little sooner,
if this  this visit must be paid. You need
only be five minutes about it ; the dear
little angels did not come to Berne to spend
their time in that dismal old glove shop."

The bonne curtseys, she is devoted to the
captain, and it is evident to her that he
objects to the mistress of the '* Eed Glove."

*come along, my darlings," he looks
down into the little faces beside him, and

his serenity returns. ** We are going to
dine now, but you shall get an appetite
first. We will see the great clock on the
tower, and the ogre at the fountain, and,
after dinner, the bears. Yes, yes, little
Cdlie, you do well to hold my hand tight,
for the greedy ogre eats up little ones all day
long, and you would make a dainty mouthful
for him. There  there, do not be
frightened, my angel, I will take care of you. "

He rolls along the street again with a
child on each side of him, and when he
has shown them the clock and the fountain
he turns into the Beauregard, where Moritz
stands waiting. The waiter's sunken cheeks
grow brighter at the pretty sight.

'Ah, monsieur," he says, as he looks at
C61ie, *she is as like Gazelle Marie as
one drop of water is like another ; and this
other is like Monsieur Engemann. Ma foi !
she should have been a boy, she would have

made as tall and fine a fellow as monsieur
her father "  it is surprising how much
higher Rudolf stands in the opinion of
both Moritz and Monsieur Risen since his
marriage with Marie Peyrolles.

Go along with you," the captain says.
I like girls best ; these are my grandchildren,
Moritz, and they are as hungry
as the ogre  eh, my little one ? What is
the matter, my jewel?"

For, at the word ogre, Celie's eyelashes
have begun to twinkle and she pinches
her nurse's apron between her tiny fingers ;
that terrible spectacle of the voracious ogre
on the fountain has given her a shock.

*' Poor little pet, is she frightened ? " the
captain pats her cheek with his fat fingers,
*' but she wants her dinner," and he leads
the way into the breakfast-room, where he
has ordered a dainty meal for his guests.

**Ah," he says to himself as he turns

his back on the bureau, the fountain, and
its green surroundings. " Once upon a
time I should have taken them in thereto
see Cherii  Tonnerre!" he bustles on into
the restaurant, *' what am I thinking of?
Even if madame had not left Berne she
would have turned her back on these little
ones. Ah ! she was a fine creature, though
perhaps a trifle violent, but she was hardly-dealt
by  I excused her."

Loigerot is disappointed that his guests
have so little appetite for the excellent fare
he has provided ; and for a few moments
he becomes low-spirited when the bonne
resolutely says that they may not drink
champagne. Both Marie and her sister are
thinking so much about the bears that they
are impatient of the time spent by the
bonne, who greatly enjoys her good meal.

** I am ready, papa Loigerot," Marie says ;
but Celie slips her little hand into the

captains and looks up athiin with a timid
smile.

Yes, you are right," he says to Moritz,
whom he has summoned to ask if the carriage
is ready. " She will be as charming as her
mother, and she will make some one's heartache
before she is twenty." He sighs and
looks serious for a moment.

The children give a cry of delight when
they cross the river. Then the carriage
stops and Loigerot lifts out first Marie and
then Celie, and then politely hands out the
bonne.

Hand in hand the captain and the two
little girls reach the platform, and Marie
and Celie cry out for joy at the sight of the
toy bears.

*papa Loigerot, see here," and 'papa
Loiserot, look at this one," and then they
clap their little hands, and their ripples of
happy laughter send the captain into ecstasy.

He buys bears of all sizes, white, brown, and
black ; he gives the bonne a huge parcel
to carry, he also carries one himself under
one arm, for his hands still hold those of
the little girls. And now Marie is pulling
him in the direction of the bear-pit, which
the bonne has pointed out to her.

Since he has seen her fear of the painted
stone ogre, the captain is a little nervous
about Celie and the bears.

He clasps her little hand tightly as
they reach the edge of the pit.

There are the monsters, begging, fawning,
lauohinor in the same hideous fashion that
they did years ago.

There is a little wail, "Ah!" and Celie
clasps her arms tightly round the captain's
leg and bursts into terrified sobs.

Hush, hush, my darling, my poor little
angel ! " says Loigerot. " Marie, are you

afraid to stand there alone if you loose my
hand a mordent ? "

No, papa Loigerot," the child says, " I
am not afraid at all ; poor little Celie is a
coward, you know."

She is a darling ! " and now that he has
both hands free, the troubled captain raises
Celie in his arms and soothes her as if she
were a baby. *'Do not scold her, Elise,"
he says, as the nurse scolds the little one
for her panic ; *' it is natural. How do you
know that you too would not cry, if you
were a little one, the first time you saw the
ugly brutes ? Go and buy some carrots for
Ma'mzelle Marie to throw to them."

Marie was delighted ; she was a little
afraid, but she tried to show her courage
by flinging carrot after carrot into the huge
grinning mouth of the biggest bear. The
applause she roused from the bystanders

roused Celie from her fears ; she forgot her
terrors of the bear as she witnessed Marie's
success.

Aha ! Good day again, Lenoir," the
captain says. ** Look here ; these are my
grandchildren ; they belong to Monsieur
Rudolf Engemann, of Fribourg."

One might know that, certainly," says
Lenoir ; " this little lady is the very portrait
of her father."

Marie looks up approvingly at the birdlike
barber; she is elated by her triumph
over her fear. '* Mamma says I ought to bea
boy," she says, " and papa says when he
dies I shall have to take care of mamma
and Celie."

Celie sits upright in the captain's arms.

You are too little to take care of
mamma," she says. Then she nestles her
face into the captain's shoulder. '* Papa

Loiserot will take care of me and of
mamma too."

The captain hugs the child closely, and
kisses her on both cheeks.

Do you hear, monsieur ? " Lenoir laughs.
That is perhaps a prophecy. Do you remember
what Madame Carouse said after
that famous evening at the Schanzli ? "

The captain looks pensive. " You told
me, my good friend, but I have forgotten.
What was it ? "

"She said that a certain young person,
who shall be nameless, if you please, monsieur,
was a little fool, and that she would
have been wiser if she had chosen the man
who loved her instead of the man she loved
herself."

Lenoir looks significantly at the small
Marie, whose blue eyes stare hard at him.

Ah, poor woman, she had a temper,"
the captain says, and he sighs ; " but she

VOL. III. s

was a fine creature, we can ill spare her
from Berne."

Bah," says Lenoir, *' she is wise, she has
gone on her travels ; she knows well enough
that Moritz is devoted to her interests, and
that the Beauregard will not suffer during

o o

these years of absence. She is enjoying her
liberty. She will return cured and happy,
and she will perhaps find," says Lenoir,
slapping his expanded chest, *that she
left a possible happiness behind her."

The captain's eyes twinkle.

"It is possible, my friend, that she may
bring home a husband with her," he says.

Lenoir makes a grimace. ' I will say
good morning, monsieur le capitaine," and
he bows and passes on.

Lenoir has revived painful memories in
the captain, but he soon shakes them aside,
he does not want to lose a minute of the
society of his dear little girls. He smiles at

them lovingly. 'come, my darlings, let
lis say good day to the bears''

*' I am glad that cross man is gone,"
Celie says, " he is as ugly as the bears ;
he is like an ugly dickey-bird, papa
Loiserot."

