CHAPTER I.

ON THE MEUSE.

T Might is fading on the river, the water
- has lost the opal brightness of half-an-hour
ago. But for the swiftly moving
current one might think the spacious
valley borders a lake, for the broad river
turns abruptly at each end, and the steep
wooded hills on either side of it close so
completely that there seems no outlet
from the still lonely beauty of the place.

Across the broad stream, the green hills
are very lofty, irregular in outline, and
almost perpendicular. Birch trees clothe

VOL. I. B

their dark sides, and among the light foliage
here and there the earth shows purple, or
else huge crags peer forward  a warm
grey against the slender satin birch stems.
The trees grow down the steeply descending
hillside almost to the brink of the river,
and their reflections in this waning light
are spreading a uniform olive tint on the
surface of the water.

On the near side the cliffs recede in the
form of a crescent, leaving space for a small
meadow between them and the river,
and in this meadow, nearer the water
than the hills, stands a small white-washed
cottage, with green shutters and doors, its
only peculiarity being that the thatched
gable is not equal in its slopes,  the
long side stretches out to shelter a cow-house
with an arched doorway facing the
river. The cottage seems a part of the
solitude of the place, it is as still as all the
rest, only the whirr of a beetle's wing or
the leap of a fish in the swift-flowing water

gives a sign of life ; even the bird in the
green cage beside the door seems asleep.

A sudden break comes into the stillness.
The cottage door opens, and the click click
of knitting needles sounds distinctly from
within. All at once the noise stops, there
is a sound of hearty kissing, and then of a
fresh young voice 

Come now, grandmother," it says," you
stick too close to Edmund's socks, come
out with me a bit while I fetch Merest
home."

The voice has grown more distinct, and
now there stands in the doorway, relieved
against the dark background of the room,
a girl of more than middle height, and of
rounded graceful shape. She looks about
twenty, and in spite of her pale complexion
is full of health and youth; she is not perhaps
pretty, but there is much charm in the sweet
thoughtful face with its dark eyes and fair
hair, a charm that clings to the memory of
those who have once seen Jeanne Laye,

B 2

with more tenacity than mere prettiness
would. She looks fall of vigorous life
and brightness, and yet a certain dainty
grace that accompanies her movements
keeps this robustness within feminine
limits.

The grandmother raises her kerchief-covered
head and smiles at the young girl ;
hers is such a still wan face that the
sudden smile seems to galvanize it into
life ; she shakes her head, and a gleam
of mockery shows in her pale blue eyes.

'* My old legs cannot match your young
ones," she says in a cracked voice. " Wait
till Edmund comes, and he'll fetch Merest
home."

Jeanne laughs gaily  *eyes, yes, edmund
will be here soon. But why cannot
you come too, grandmother ?"

The old woman's pale straight face
stiffens, she looks searchingly into the
girl's clear dark eves. Then grasping
with one hand a stick which rests against

the arm of her chair she gets up, with
difficulty, clutching at Jeanne's arm for
help. " Since you want me, child, I will
come."

Side by side age and youth walk slowly
down the gentle green slope that lies
between the cottage and the swiftly flowing
river, to where a pale fawn-coloured cow
stands with her feet in the clear water
drinking.

Dear Merette, she has not gone far,"
Jeanne said. " I thought, grandmother,
you should for once see how pretty she
looks as she stands drinking in the clearwater,
with a reflection like a twin Merette.
I often wish I could paint her picture,"

The old woman stood gazing at the cow
without speaking for a minute or two.

Jeanne," the girl started as the thin
voice broke the stillness of the valley,
sleeping now in the olive light spread down
its dark sides, and over the clear water,
*' you will never desert me, Jeanne."

The girl laughed, a hearty reassuring
laugh of utter incredulity at the idea suggested,
but the truth shining out of her
brown eyes was even more convincing to
her questioner.

"Why, grandmother what do you mean ?"
she said, " you are foolish to-night ; to
begin with, whom could I go to if I left you ?
no one would be plagued with me, you
have so spoiled me since I left the convent'*

The grandmother's pale blue eyes looked
from out the deep caverns into which age
had sunk them. '* Are you sure you do
not want to leave me, Jeanne ? It is a dull
life here for a bright young girl. But'*
her thin voice grew shriller yet with agitation,
and Jeanne felt the withered arm
tremble within her own firm clasp, '' I
can keep you, child, while you are willing
to stay here with me ; what I have could
not keep you and me too if it were divided,
and it would not suffice in a town as it
does here, in the country."

Jeanne was shaking her head in merry
disapproval.

What is the matter this evening,
grandmother ? do you really think I could
leave you and Merette ?"

The cow came slowly up from the water,
and when it reached Jeanne, rubbed its
head lovingly against her shoulder. Jeanne
slipped one plump arm round its neck and
kissed it between the eyes. '* Yes, my Merette,"
she said in a soft purring voice, "even
grandmother talks nonsense sometimes, you
must help me to scold her, Merette." The
cow shook her head as if she understood.
Oh, if I only had your picture, my beauty.
Grandmother, Monsieur Vidonze said, the
last time I saw him, he would photograph
Merette, as well as me, the next time he
came."

Madame Delimoy's face changed suddenly,
and one saw at a glance how stern
those pale straight features and sunken
eyes could look.

Monsieur Vidonze ! Bah !" her voice
had a harsh scoff in it. ** He knows nothing
about photographing, see what a fright he
made of you. I tell you, Jeanne," in a
vexed suspicious tone, " I'll not have a
vagabond do-nothing like Antoine Vidonze
loitering here again."

Jeanne raised her soft cheek from the
cow's neck, and turning a laughing face
on the angry old woman, said,

What has he done, poor fellow, I
thought you liked him."

But Madame Delimoy had recovered
herself.

He is good for nothing," she said
sharply, " he is not worth talking of."

Jeanne turned away, still smiling, and
Merette followed, filling the air with sweet
milky fragrance and soft lowing.

*' I wonder why grandmother is angry,"
Jeanne thought ; " Monsieur Vidonze is not
amusing, but I do want a likeness of
Merette."

The broad arched door of the cow-house
stood open, and Merette passed on to her
comfortable lodging, and her bed of green
broom shoots. Jeanne lingered longer
than usual with the cow. She had lived
with her grandmother for the last
four years, and this was the first time
she had seen her really angry. The girl's
frank fearlessness kept the atmosphere
bright and unclouded, she and her mother
had always understood one another, and
she had never learned the art of disputing.
But Madame Lahaye had gone to join the
husband who had died some years earlier,
and when Jeanne left the convent where
she had been taught, she had come to live
with her grandmother.

They got on very well together, though
the girl sometimes wished she could find
out what lay under the old woman's cold
and often sarcastic manner. But then, if
Madame Delimoy rarely showed affection
and never praised, she also never blamed

ber grandchild. This was the first time
that Jeanne could remember to have had
her will thwarted.

Something has vexed her that I know
nothing about," she thought ; the serene
look came back to her sweet face ; she
said good night to Merette, and closed the
cow-house door.

As she turned round, the smile warmed
into a delighted expression, and a rich glow
flushed her cheeks. There stood talking
to her grandmother a tall slender
young fellow, dressed in a short jacket,
dark brown velveteen trousers, and a rush-plaited
high-crowned hat on his head.
His large dark eyes were fixed on the cow-stable,
and as they met Jeanne's, the
impatient look left them.

He nodded to Madame DeHmoy, and
went forward to meet Jeanne.

You come at last," he said, as they
shook hands. " I thought that you
had gone to bed with that precious

COW, no one has a chance beside her."

Jeanne nodded, but she looked saiicj.

Dear, pretty Merette, how can I help
loving her, she would be a sweet bed-fellow.
I care for her next best to grandmother."

Mechante,' he said, shaking his head
at her.

Jeanne laughed.

"Of course I do, and is it not right and
just ? She gives us milk and butter,
and she loves me ; she never strays. T take
her to pasture every morning and fetch her
in to be milked ; then I take her down to
water and fetch her in for the night; and
never once has she tried to have any will
but mine ; tell me, my friend, would any
two-legged friend be half as amiable as
Merette? I do not think so."

She talks folly," the old woman said,
for they now stood beside her ; ** lead mein,
Edmund, and then you can come out
to Jeanne."

'' What ! tired already, grandmother ?"

the girl said as the old woman turned to
the cottage, leaning heavily on Edmund's
arm ; but Jeanne was very happy, for the
evening visits of Edmund Depuis had
grown to be the best part of her life.

The young fellow had moored his boat to
the white post where the cow had stood,
and now Jeanne went slowly to the post,
and begun uncoiling the rope he had
fastened round it.

Edmund came hurrying from the cottage
before she had finished ; his dark
eyes glowing, and a rich colour on his
cheeks. No words were spoken till
Jeanne was seated in the boat, and he
began to row her slowly down the river;
the two friends sat smiling at one
another.

Let me have an oar," the girl said,
presently.

You shall have them both, if you
will promise not to row me into the
bushes."

Changing places with her he gave up
the oars, and Jeanne's pale face glowed
with pretty triumph as the boat shot forward
under her strong even strokes.
Edmund sat watching her, his great gipsy-like
eyes following every movement, but
though there was an easy fellowship of
manner between these two that might
have been mistaken for relationship, the
expression of those deep glowing, dark
eyes was not that of a brother. Edmund
Depuis had known Jeanne for two years,
and she was fond of saying that they
must be related, because grandmother
seemed to belong to Edmund as much
as she belonged to her.

Madame Delimoy had known Edmund's
mother, and it was very pleasant to him
to talk to some one who remembered
his early home.

He had lost both father and mother
in his childhood, and it always seemed
strange and fortuitous that the first acquaintance

he made in Riraay should
have been Madame DeHmcy. She was
far less feeble two years ago, and one
afternoon when she was sitting chatting
in the parlour of his landlady, Madame
Boulotte, the comely dame began to
sing the praises of her lodger, Monsieur
Depuis, the young engineer, who had come
from Namur to help in making the new
railway.

Madame Delimoy recognised the name
of Depuis, when he came in soon after, and
was introduced to Monsieur Edmund.
It had always been surprising to Jeanne
that her reserved grandmother should have
invited a stranger to the cottage ; but edmund
quickly seemed to be at home, and
he and she were soon like brother and
sister. He had been brought up by his
cousin, Jules Baconfoy, an innkeeper at
Namur, but though the cousin was kind,
he was a bachelor, and eccentric ; and till
Edmund became acquainted with Jeanne

Labaye and her grandmother, he had not
known the sweetness which women bring
to home life.

At first he had come to the cottage
every Sunday ; but lately he came on weekdays
also, sometimes every other day; and
Jeanne began to wonder how she had
lived without his visits  they seemed the
great events in her monotonous existence.


The two friends had always something
left from last time to talk over, and each
was sure to have some special need to
consult the other before they again met.

Madame Delimoy had looked on well
pleased to see the children, as she called
them, happy together.

Edmund Depuis amused her, and she
was always glad to see him, for he was
very amusing and clever, with that sort
of ready wit and pleasant adaptable talent
which finds an outlet in all society and
sympathy with everyone.

Jeanne went on rowing with earnest
face and strained muscles, so absorbed in
her efforts that she forgot her companion ;
all at once she pulled both oars into the
boat and broke into a merry laugh.

 Why don't you speak, Edmund ?
you are as mum as a mouse, you have
been quite silent these ten minutes ; I
did not know you could keep so quiet.
Are you ill ?"

She tried to look grave, but the saucy
dimples round her mouth would not be
smoothed away.

' Jeanne," he said abruptly, " shall you
miss me if I do not come next Sunday
?"

He kept his eyes fixed on her face, and
the change he saw there satisfied him.
Jeanne looked half frightened, half ready
to cry.

'* Not come on Sunday ! why not, what
are you going to do ? are you going anywhere
with Madame Boulotte?"

He shrugged his shoulders and smiled.

I should not give you up for Madame
Boulotte. No, I had a note from my
cousin Jules this morning ; he tells me if I
come to Namur at once I shall hear something
to my advantage."

Does he say no more than that ?"

Edmund shook his head as if it were
the best joke in the world.

''No, if you had seen him you would
know that, good fellow as he is, Jules
Baconfoy takes a certain grim pleasure
in teasing me  but he is the best friend
I have and I know he is always
trying to help me  he has good news
now," the young fellow spoke warmly.

Then why did you not go to him at
once ?"

Edmund took the oars and motioned
the girl to sit in his place  then he gave
her a look full of reproach.

Upon my word, Jeanne," he said, " I
thought you would be disappointed if I did

VOL. I.

Dot come here this evening, and this is
your appreciation, is it ?"

Jeanne left off laughing.

Yes, it is very kind of you, but even
to please me you must not vex your
cousin, though he does hate women.
You will certainly go tomorrow, will you
not ?"

' Perhaps," he smiled ; " why, what a
woman's business you would make, Jeanne,
a regular driver ! I had not thought of
going for several days."

Jeanne blushed shyly.

You know best, no doubt," she said ;
*' but indeed, Edmund, I should not like
to hurry or to be a woman of business ;
I only meant I do not want to be selfish."

He gave her a loving, grateful glance.

You could not be that if you tried,"
he said, tenderly; then, suddenly changing
his tone, he laughed. " Your grandmother
and Merette do not give selfishness time to
grow in. I fancy you have always so much



to do for one or the other that there is not
much chance for anyone else."

Poor Merette ! you always have a rap
at her ; it is mean of you to be jealous of
a cow. But we must go home, must we
not, my friend ?"

While they had been talking the shadows
had grown deeper on the water, the hills
on either side of the valley looked more
solid and inaccessible, and the post and
the wall of the cottage stood in glaring
whiteness amid the gloom.

Not just yet," and Edmund rowed on
past the landing-post. *' Suppose I am
away a week, shall you miss me ?"

Edmund ?" It seemed to Jeanne that he
must be joking to ask such a question, and
she looked up laughing  expecting to see
his dark eyes sparkling with merry mischief;
she met instead a look full of reproach ;
but the next moment he said brightly,

Of course if you have Merette, you
don't want anyone else, that is plain."

c 2

"Of course Dot," said Jeanne lightly, but
she was thinking of Edmund's eyes. She
had scarcely ever seen them serious before.
What power of expression there
was in their dark velvet-like depth !
How beautiful they were !  for Jeanne,
like many a woman only moderately gifted
with good looks almost worshipped actual
beauty, and certainly Edmund Depuis,
with his delicate richly coloured skin,
his clustering chestnut hair and darker
beard, and his marvellous dark eyes  eyes
like those which Andersen calls " beautiful
dark lakes," was an ideal of youthful
beauty. He was tall too, and
straight, and well made ; as they again
neared the landing-place, and he flung
the rope round the post and stood drawing
the boat closer in shore, he looked
full of grace and strength.

It was lighter here ; on this side of the
cottage a narrow valley opened in the
dark hill behind it, indistinct just now

from a veil of blue mist, which seemed to
indicate that here was the home of the
trickling thread of water that meandered
among the purple crocuses in the meadow.

'' Good night, Jeanne," Edmund said,
holding the girl's hand clasped in his as
she passed him to get out of the boat. '* I
will come as soon as I get back from Namur,
and that may be on Sunday  who knows ?"

I wish you good speed," she said. '' I
shall so much want to know what Monsieur
Jules has to tell you. Good-bye."

She stood watching till the boat was out
of sight. She sighed as she turned back
to the cottage.

Something had fallen across the brightness
that Edmund usually left behind him.
She seemed all at once to have become
old and anxious.

Will he come back ?" she thought,
*' will he ?"

CHAPTER 11.

IN HOPE.

II/TADAME BOULOTTE is more disturbed
than she cares to feel. For
Madame Boulotte has a theory that worry
or any mental disquiet tells unfavourably
on the outward appearance : wrinkles the
forehead, brings puckers and creases to
the corners of the eyes and mouth, and,
when much indulged in, even alters the
shape of the lips.

Strong feelings and impulsive natures,
she argues, invariably age the outward
appearance, and perhaps she is right. At
any rate, since the due and respectable

amount of grief she showed at her husband's
death some fifteen years ago, Madame
Boulotte has not worried or allowed
herself to be strongly moved, and she
is one of the best preserved women in
Belgium. No one knows how old she is.
But sometimes when you meet her coming
from Mass, with her veil down, she maybe
taken (except that her well proportioned
figure is rather full) for five-and-twenty.
To-day, however, fighting with care that
will not be driven out, Madame Boulotte
looks forty.

Madame Boulotte is very handsome still;
though she is not tall she has a queenly
aspect, her square, well-shaped head is
admirably placed on her shoulders ; her
fair hair is arranged in stiffly frizzed curls,
and these, with her clearly-defined eyebrows,
her pale blue eyes, and aquiline
nose, give her rather the air of a marquise
of bygone days, and make one think of
powder and patches, of a hoop and red

heels. Madame Boulotte is, however,
simply dressed in black silk ; pearl earrings,
a handsome diamond ring shining on
her finger, and shining steel buckles in her
shoes, are the only ornaments she wears.

She is speaking now to her freckled, repaired
bonne, who for the twelfth time has
come to ask when Monsieur Edmund is
expected. " He has been away a fortnight,
and he only went for three days," she says.

Madame Boulotte gives a calm smile.
She says to herself with a touch of
sarcasm, " See what a favourite he is ! one
might have thought Marie would have been
glad of less work to do, and yet here she
comes every day to worry me with the
same question, as if I am not worried
enough as to what has become of him.

'marie," she says aloud; ''do not trouble
yourself, go about your business ; Monsieur
Depuis will give due notice before he returns
; he would never take us by surprise."

Madame Boulotte is sitting at a small

round table in the middle of her parlour,
with her back to the door ; but at a little
cry from the much-enduring Marie, she
turns round and sees Monsieur Depuis ashe
comes into the room.

Madame Boulotte does not look surprised.
She is ever calm and courteous.
She holds out her soft, plump hand to her
truant lodger.

You are welcome, Monsieur Edmund;
but what has happened to you ?"

Then she sees how disturbed the young
fellow looks  rather agitated than anxious
though his face is full of unspoken
projects, and she asks no more questions.

Your room is ready. Monsieur, for we
have expected you every day." This is all
the reproach she permits herself. " You will
tell me all your news after supper. Marie,
Monsieur Edmund will sup with me."

Pardon me, Madame," he seems remember
for the first time that he has been
neglectful; " I know I ought to have written

to you, but I bad no notion that I
should be away so long  I am very sorry.
But, Madame, I cannot bave the pleasure
of supping with you, I am engaged this
evening, you will bave me tomorrow
instead  I know you will." He gives ber
a sweet look out of bis liquid dark eyes.

Madame Boulotto looks at bim quietly ;
not the faintest tinge of colour appears
on ber cheeks ; no movement of ber lips
betrays ber mortification ; but sbe is
grieved. Sbe believes herself to be the
confidant of the charming young fellow's
joys and sorrows. Has sbe not tried to
replace to bim bis lost mother  no, hardly
that, conscience whispers; sbe bas been
a sweeter and more original companion,
a role wbicb Madame Boulotte thinks no
other woman would bave been able to enact
so well  mother, sister, friend, all in one,
with just the restraint that heightens
interest and makes influence more lasting,
yet without a tinge of nonsense or flirting.



Surely she lias a right to know all he
has been doing: at Namur. But she takes
no notice of his refusal to sup with her.

And how is Monsieur Baconfoy, poor
man ?" she asks, for Edmund has seated
himself at the table, and has begun to
play with her scissors. " Is he as great a
woman-hater and fossil as ever?"

Edmund laughs and looks mischievous.
*she is, if possible, worse than ever ; he
said the other day that he could see no
reason for the existence of women as reasonable
beings. I dare not tell you half of his
heresies."

Ah ! he has no one to contradict him,"
says Madame Boulotte, calmly. " Men
never contradict one another's folly. Be
sure, my friend, that that man in his youth
has loved in vain, and therefore, as the
right woman could not be had by him, he
refuses to believe in any other ; but, mafoi,
he is not a man," she adds with an air of
superb disdain, " he is a mummy."

BESIDE THE RIVER.

'nevertheless, Madame," Edmund rises
up and moves towards the door, "he is a
fine specimen of flesh and blood, and he hasa
good heart under his cynicism. " Who
knows, Madame," he says laughingly,
what might happen if you undertook his
conversion, you might do wonders with
him."

She looks at him earnestly, it has never
occurred to her that her friend Edmund
could laugh at her, and yet this sounds
like ridicule. She draws herself up
slightly.

'' I am not strong-minded, Monsieur
Edmund, I do not profess to teach. It
is only where my affections are interested
that I can give help or advice. No,
Monsieur Baconfoy would find as much to
overcome in me as I should in him before
we could even begin to talk to one another."

Edmund laughs. " I am sure you would
convert him," he says. '' You must have
more faith in yourself."

As lie goes out of the room, he thinks
** I believe these two would get on excellently
if they would only make acquaintance
 he would manage her, and she
would give in ; she is too much for me."

He was really afraid of his landlady today
; he felt that she had become aware
that some trouble disturbed him. All
through his short life  he was only twenty
four  he had been content to let himself
drift along the channel created by circumstances.
His cousin had, he knew, used
to the best advantage the small sum left
him by his parents, to complete his
education and to place him in his profession,
and he had accepted his cousin's propositions
without comment. His work at
Rimayy was only temporary; but he had
given himself up to the full enjoyment of
his life there, and had shut his eyes to the
future. He had gone on this long time ina
dreamy happiness, knowing that his
visits to the cottage by the river gave to

life a something that it had wanted before,
and never troubling himself to find
out how much he cared for Jeanne
Lahaye.

And now he knew that his happy dream
was over. A much better post had been
offered him close to Isthmus, and though
he had been expecting, and desiring even,
a rise in position, this prospect of change
had come on him with the force of a shock;
shattering his blissful dream, and leaving
a weight of care in its place.

He rowed along, out of tune this afternoon
with the lovely river and its banks,
full just now of light and shade  his heart
was filled with Jeanne. It seemed as if a
new sight had come to him ; the dreamlike
past no longer blinded him to what
had been all this while the aim of each
day's hope. Looking back, he saw how
the thought of Jeanne had lightened his
daily labour, and how the certainty of those
evenings with her had put a shield between

him and all the petty vexations of life. At
the thought a smile spread over his face 
he looked in that moment an ideal of youth
and hope. Why should not Jeanne be his
wife ? '' I cannot live without her  I will
not," he thought passionately. " She has
been used to poverty  she will not expect
a rich home."

The new post he had accepted, he
argued, justified him in marrying ; he
could live frugally, and in a few years
probably his income would be doubled.

*' Jeanne will consent, I know," he
murmured. A sudden fear made him pale,
but he smiled at it. " My love must compel
Jeanne's ; yes she loves me, I am sure of it,"
and he began to row with rapid, vigorous
strokes. He could scarcely bear delay
now, his impulsive nature always urged
him to immediate action ; what he wished
must surely happen. He was soon beside
the white post, but there was no sign of
Jeanne or of Merette, and the light told

him that probably they might not comedown
to the rivers for some time.

He had resolved to speak to Jeanne
first, without consulting Madame Delimoy,
but now it seemed as if he might as well
go to the cottage, and get his talk with
the old woman over. Jeanne would be
sure to refer him to her, so it would save
time. He smiled again at a certain uneasiness
he felt, as he laid his hand on the
latch of the cottage door. Madame Delimoy
always agreed with him, why should she
differ from him now, when his object was
to make her grandchild happy ?

CHAPTER III.

A Sacrifice.

Te waited a second or two, and then
he went in, bringing a stream of
sunshine into the dimly-lighted cottage.
Though logs still smouldered on the hearth,
smoke rather than light came from them.
Edmund's eyes at first could hardly make
out Madame Delimoy, her black gown
and dark apron were so much in harmony
with the gloom. She had a handkerchief
too tied over her cap, and a dark shawl
crossed over her bosom, but the pale pink
of her face and hands relieved itself, and
VOL. 1 D

all at once he saw that the pale blue eyeS
were searching his face.

Good evening, Madame," he said, and
the old woman held out a trembling bony
hand, " I am so glad to see you again," he
looked, with a pleasant smile, at the old
woman.

You have come back ?" she said, and
her tone put surprise into the words.

I did not expect to be away so long,
Madame, or I should have said so. How
is Jeanne? I suppose she has gone to
fetch Merette."

He meant to speak quietly, but his
words hurried along quite regardless of
his intentions ; the smile had gone, and he
looked anxious.

Madame Delimoy's scanty eyebrows
arched, and a smile curved her thin lips.
She noticed the change in Edmund.

Yes, she always fetches Merette, as you
know ; she is as well as usual, I thank you."

He had always been a great favourite

with Madame Deliraoy, and now he was
conscious that she was not in sympathy
with him, but he could not stay to reflect.
I have news to tell her and you,
Madame," he went on quickly. '' My work
is over at Rimayy, and a post is offered tome
some way off. I shall have to live at
Namur," he paused, but Madame Delimoy
sat motionless, her pale eyes still searching
his face.

Madame," he burst out suddenly,
*' you have always been kind to me, you
must guess what I have to say, and what I
want  I want Jeanne to be my wife."

Except that she looked graver, Madame
Delimoy showed no emotion.

*' You will give your consent, will you
noi ?" he went on. " You must have seen
how happy we make one another, you
would have parted us before if you had
meant to disapprove of our love."

'' I have seen nothing to approve and
disapprove ;" the thin voice was very cold.

D 2

Are you able to keep a wife, Monsieur
Depuis ? Jeanne's fortune is not worth
speaking of, and till my death she has
nothing at all."

He raised his hand as if he would deprecate
such a thought as money, his
handsome young face flushed.

I only want Jeanne," he said eagerly.
Yes, I have enough, she and I can live
almost as cheaply in my lodgings as I do
alone, and when I am richer she shall have a
little house of her own ; we will often come
and see you, Madame."

There was no answer ; something in the
stillness of his listener struck compunction
into his ardour, and he added hastily,
Yes, we will often come."

Still there was no answer; Madame
Delimoy's eyes had left his face and were
gazing at the smouldering logs.

'swill you not answer me?" he said
impatiently ; " will you not say you wish
me to marry Jeanne ?"

"A quoi bon'' she gave the cold cynical
laugh which so disturbed her grandchild.
Whether I like it or not, you will ask
Jeanne to marry you, and it is her answer,
not mine, which you will abide by. You
wish to part me from my grandchild. Do
you look for my thanks for this, Monsieur
Depuis ?"

Edmund took both her hands, and
pressed them in his. His eyes were full
of sweetness, but Madame Delimoy would
not meet them.

Do not be angry," he said, " and do not
call me Monsieur Depuis, I am your son
Edmund, you do give me Jeanne ; how can
I thank you, you will have two children instead
of one ; but I am beside myself with
impatience till I hear Jeanne's answer.
Shall I find her in the valley do you think ?"

Madame Delimoy paused. *' You can look
for her there," she said stiffly.

Edmund kissed one of the trembling
hands, and then he went out. " After all,"

he thought, " the old woman is right, it
is useless to worry her, only Jeanne can
give me the answer I want." He stood
hesitating, he knew that Jeanne sometimes
came down the little valley behind the
cottage, but she came oftener from the hillside,
for the goats and Merette were fond
of climbing ; for once he paused to reflect ;
if he missed Jeanne, and had to come
back in search of her, the delay would be so
much longer. He was troubled, and while
he stood waiting, his kind heart suffered
for Madame Delimoy.

No doubt it will be hard for her to part
with Jeanne, *' and yet," he said, '' it would
be worse for me than for her ; it will only bethe
same for her as it was before Jeanne
came, Hfe would end for me if I lost Jeanne ;"
and then he stamped with impatience. If
he only knew where to look for Jeanne !
He soon grew tired of waiting, and went
up the valley beside the trickling stream.
Presently he heard Jeanne's clear voice

singing overhead ; he moved across to
the other side of the path, and he saw
her.

She was seated on a bare projecting
spur of rock, above and below her was
an abundance of purple heather, nearer
the path came the thick ledge of bracken,
a golden brown in the afternoon sun; and
lower yet, growing down to the edge of
the footpath, was a skirting of oak, evidently
offshoots from some former masters
of the soil. Two goats browsed near her.

Jeanne, Jeanne," he called out, and
Jeanne rose quickly to her feet. Her
hair shone like a nimbus round her head
in the level light ; she looked a grand
figure with her closely clinging black
skirts, relieved against the crimson
heather. She had grown rosy with joy
at the unexpected sound of Edmund's
voice.

*' Felix," she said to the little boy
lying in the heather at her feet, " you

can bring Merette home in half-an-hour,
the goats may stay longer, I am going."

For the first time the girl was ashamed
of her own feelings; she could not have
given a reason, and yet she tried to hide
this joy that made every fibre of her
body thrill ; she conquered, and when she
reached the end of the path where Edmund
stood, waiting to jump her down from
the high bank on to the slaty road
below, she was outwardly quiet ; she smiled
at him saucily.

"Well, you are really come, Mr. Truant,
we had given you up for lost."

He did not answer. Jeanne looked
up at him, and grew subdued at once
when she saw how grave his face was ;
she thought it was more beautiful, even
during all this time of absence, than she
had been dreaming it was ; it was overcast
with a pensive melancholy. Jeanne's heart
smote her for having begun by teasing.

Is anything the matter, Edmund ?" she

said, anxiously ; '' don't mind mj foolish
words."

He looked away  he had not quite planned
how to begin, and it had jarred upon him
to hear her sing so happily in his absence.
He began to walk slowly down the valley
towards the meadow, without looking at
Jeanne as she walked beside him.

I do not know yet," he said, " whether
I have cause for sorrow ; but I am anxious,
my friend."

Jeanne listened for more, this new mood
disturbed her. Edmund had told her once
or twice of some petty trouble ; but usually
their talk had been playful ; now he walked
on silently.

I will tell you presently," he said at
last, and he gave her a long glance.

Jeanne felt tormented ; a tinge of colour
flickered on her clear skin.

You are mysterious," she said ; but she
did not say it in her usual lively fashion.
They had now reached the opening of the

valley, and Jeanne was going on as if to
cross the meadow on her way to the boat.

Edmund put his hand on her arm.
We will not go to the boat to-night, I
can tell you better here. How lonely this
place is !" He looked round at the cottage,
and then turned away from it. " It is
hardly safe for two women to live alone sofar
from help in case of need."

Jeanne smiled at his grave face ; she
did not understand his mood. ' No
one would ever harm us ; everyone knows
we are poor, and all grandmother's treasures
are safe with Madame Boulotte.
What is this new fancy ?" she said, and
then she laughed ; " you take a gloomy
view of things to-day, my friend, tell me
what has been happening to you at
Namur ? Monsieur Baconfoy has not had
good news for you, I fear."

He kept behind her so that she should
not see his face, and Jeanne turned back
towards the cottage.

"I know something troubles you," she
said earnestly ; " let us go to grandmother,
she is so wise, she can find a cure for every
trouble."

Stay'' he said hastily, " I must tell
you alone  come this way." And he began
to cross the meadow where the
pale purple crocus blossoms showed
thickest.

Jeanne stooped and began to gather some
of the delicate flowers. Edmund turned
and looked at her ; he frowned and bit his
lip. Instead of following him she stood
gazing at the orange centres of the flowers.
He walked back, snatched them from
her hand, and flung them impatiently on
the grass.

Your friendship is not worth having,"
he said impetuously. *' I tell you that I
am anxious ; that I want to speak to you,
and, instead of listening, you play with
flowers."

Jeanne's face flushed, and her eyes

opened wide with wonder; she laughed
when he left off speaking, then suddenly
changing, " My friend, you are certainly
not yourself to-night," she said tenderly.
Come in and let grandmother cure you."
Edmund muttered some words which
were not complimentary to the grandmother's
wisdom ; then he tried to control
himself.

Forgive me, my friend," he said. " I am
rough and rude ; but you are so indulgent,
and  Jeanne, I am wretched  you alone,
dear one, can cure my trouble, if you will;
but will you ?"

What use can I be ?" she laughed, a
little nervously. '' I can read, and cook,
and sew, and I can play a little on the
piano, and I can mind Merette ; but  but
I am not wise at giving advice, like
grandmother."

You are all the wisdom I want," he
cried passionately  he bent over her and
clasped both her hands in his, while his

deep, glowing eyes seemed to devour her.
*' We have been long with closed eyes in
Paradise ; let us open them and be real
with one another. Jeanne, I love you
more than I can say. I must have you
for my wife."

The weakness had left his face ; he
looked full of passion and power ; as if he
would compel the love he asked.

The rosy colour flew into the girl's face.
At first she seemed stupefied ; then she
drew her hand from his.

'' I  I cannot be your wife," she said in a
low voice, " I do not wish to marry." She
did not think of Edmund, she was thinking
of the promise she had made to her
grandmother.

Do you know what you are saying ?"
he cried angrily. " Jeanne, Jeanne, do you
wish to put this cruel end to our friendship?"


The girl's face, now pale as a lily, was
lifted to his ; her heart fluttered so wildly

she could scarcely speak, the pain seemed
more than she could bear.

Ah, no, indeed ; why need our friendship
end ?" She looked confused  frightened
; but she did not know why she was
so troubled.

Because I love you ; because I want
you for my wife ; because I cannot live
without you. I am going away, Jeanne,
and I cannot leave you behind. Tell me,
dearest, that you love me, that I may go
and ask your grandmother's consent to
marry you."

His arm stole round her waist  she did
not stir, she was very pale, and her lips
trembled.

'* Going away !" she said, ** can you be
in earnest ? oh ! no, Edmund." She
moved gently from him.

'* In earnest, Jeanne ! God knows how
much," he took her hand again. " Child,
can you not understand what I feel?
I have suffered enough in this absence.

I want you all to myself, you are the joy
of my life, you will say Yes, dearest  come,
my Jeanne, my best beloved ;" he kissed
the hand he held, and Jeanne's heart
throbbed still more, " let us go together
to your grandmother."

Suddenly Jeanne clasped her other handover
his and held him fast. The struggle
within was terrible.

'' Please listen," she said ; the stillness
of her voice chilled his rising hope. " I
do love you, Edmund, indeed I do. You
are my very dear friend  but  but grandmother
comes first. I should be ungrateful
to her. I could not leave her, even for you.
You will not be away long, you will come
back, and we shall be happy again ; it is
very hard to lose you  but"  she forced a
smile, for she thought that she would not
grieve him by showing her own sorrow.
Yes, my friend, you will soon come
back."

Edmund was too full of his own feelings

to understand that perhaps Jeanne's
lay out of sight. Her words seemed to
him Hke a sentence of death  they seemed
to prove her want of love. He stood looking
at her in despairing silence.

Do not be angry with me," said the
girl, '' I am your friend ; oh, yes, I will
always be your friend, I could not be
angry with you without just cause. Please
forgive me, I shall miss you sadly, God
knows  but you will come back."

She gave him a little look, and then
turned away. Her eyes were full of hot
blinding tears.

But Edmund was maddened with disappointment.


I shall never come back," he said,
you are cruel-hearted, you are wicked,
Jeanne  you have deceived me, you have
let me go on loving you all this while, you
must have known that I did not think of
you only as a friend  I love you, I have
always loved you with my heart's best

love, you are first, before all the world tome
 and you  you will not give up your
grandmother for me. Mon Dieu ! was
there ever such selfishness ?" he turned
away with a bitter look on his face.

Jeanne was deeply touched, and her
thoughts were in tumult; she did not
understand the new, disturbed shyness
she felt towards Edmund. She could not
at once have said she loved him, she
had not thought of love, but her heart was
full of lira ; a new soft tenderness welled
up at his words  if he had been patient,
love would quickly have made his presence
felt. But at the name of her grandmother,
duty mastered the girl's emotion 
even for Edmund she could not break the
promise she had given to Madame Delimoy.

'' No, Edmund, I cannot leave her," she
said sadly, but, though her lips quivered,
she kept back her tears.

He gave her an angry glance, he could
not see the trembling, swelling heart  so

VOL. I. E

full of the trouble it could not understand
the pent up tears she so bravely tried
to hide from him. He fancied that Jeanne
was cold as a stone, and he turned away
in despair ; without even saying adieu he
hurried to the river, unfastened the rope,
jumped into the boat, and pulled off towards
Rimayy.

CHAPTER ly.

MADAME BOTJLOTTE.

TT was in September that Edmund
Depuis left the river side in such a
stormy mood, and, though the new year
has come, he has never returned to makepeace
with Jeanne La Have.

The time has gone very slowly with the
young girl ; her grandmother gets deafer
and more infirm, and will sit for hours
without speaking a word. Jeanne fancies
that she looks at her sternly as if
she suspected her secret trouble, fora
sore trouble weighs on the girl's
bright spirit. She pines after Edmund.
Her every dayes prayer is, '' If I could
only see him once more !" She knows

E 2

LI BRAKY

 Illinois

he is far away, yet day after day sbe
stands longing to see his boat shoot into
sight from the bond which closes the
end of the river. She tells herself she
would be content to let him row by in
silence, if she might only see his face.
But evening after evening goes and he
does not come, and Jeanne's heart is
sorely troubled.

Her trouble is the greater because there
is no one to bring her news of Edmund.
She said once to her grandmother,

Edmund has gone away, perhaps we
shall never see him again."

And the old woman answered,

He only came for a certain time  we
knew that he must go sooner or later."

But Madame Delimoy was saddened too ;
Edmund's handsome face, bright temper,
and merry teasing had brought sunshine
into her faded life. The girl was unwilling
to speak of him to her grandmother ; she
herself must soon go, she thinks, to Rimayy,

and she knows that his landlady will talk of
Edraond. She shall hear from Madame
Boulotte what he is doing. But everything
has happened contrary to her expectations,
and, when the new year comes,
Jeanne has not been to Rimayy.

One day in October, when she came in
from taking Merette to water, she found
Madame Delimoy immoveable in her chair,
and unable to speak. Jeanne gave one look
at the white fixed face, and then she hurried
out to find Felix, the boy who cleaned
the cow-stable and did the rough work ;
and sent him to Rimayy for the doctor ;
Madame Delimoy recovered slowly, but she
was more infirm than ever ; and Jeanne
dared not leave her for any long period,
lest some accident might happen in her
absence. More than once she had proposed
to move to Rimayy  where she
knew that she could get a few pupils
to add to their scanty income, and enable
them to have a maid instead of Felix,

who was chiefly an outdoor servant ; but
Madame Delimoy looked so angry at the
proposal that Jeanne had been obliged
to avoid the subject for the future.

"My son's child shall never work for
her living," the old woman said loftily,
he was an officer, and his wife was a
lady ; their child shall take no one's money
who is not of our blood."

Jeanne sighed.

The life which had been so sweet and
bright had grown dull and irksome, her
sole comfort was when she could forget
her surroundings in a book, and not
only were books difficult to get, but the
necessary work of the house took up
nearly all the time she could spare from
sewing and mending. The only change
the poor girl got was on a Sunday, when
she walked nearly two miles to the little
church of the nearest village.

But it is bright clear weather again, and
the cold is so severe that the river is

frozen over. Madame Delimoy is so well
to-day that she seems almost herself. She
is more cheerful than she has been since
her illness.

Jeanne, my child," she says, " why
should you not put on your skates and goto
town, and buy the gown I promised
you for Christmas ; you will be there and
back, flying along as you do on the ice,
in less time than, it would take you to
walk to Rimayy by the road."

Jeanne stands for a moment overwhelmed
by the sudden unexpected proposal,
then her eyes glisten, and she kisses,
the old woman with some of her old
boisterous affection.

*' You kind grandmother, how good you
are ! and I can get you a new cap, and
take some of the old ones to be got up
by Madame Petit. You don't look like
yourself since she left off doing up the
caps. My plaiting is a sad failure. Yes,
yes, and I will bring a g palette for your

supper, grandmother." She ran away
joyfully to her room.

Jeanne is not long getting ready. She
comes down stairs in a close-fitting, longcloth
jacket, a fur cap on her head, and the
skates hanging on her arm ; her eyes are
full of excitement, and she looks charming
as she kisses her grandmother on both
cheeks.

I will soon be back, grandmother," she
says ; and then, with a careful glance at the
fire, and a smiling nod at the old woman,
she goes out into the keen air.

Madame Delimoy looks after her with a
strange expression of relief.

*' It was only the dulness that oppressed
her," she says, *' and I have been fancying
she cared for Edmund. Bah ! I need not
have feared, she forgets all about him. See
how set up she is by the chance of a
change !"

Jeanne skims over the grass to the riverside.
Edmund had taught her to skate, and

her cheeks glow, though her fingers are
half-frozen as she fastens on her skates.
The north wind is full of coming snow,
and the sky is leaden overhead ; but she
does not heed the bitter cold as, like a bird,
she flies over the glistening ice ; the lines
of her graceful, supple figure taking a
hundred charming unconscious poses as
she glides over the frozen river, so hushed
and silent under its winter coating. She
has passed the head of the stream now,
and before her the little town of Rimayy
stands out almost like an island in the midst
of the ice-blocked river; its white-roofed
houses clustering round the church tower.
Close to the town the ice is broken in
places where the inhabitants dip for water,
and Jeanne has to land a little before she
reaches the promontory, which stretches
out into the midst of the ice-covered
stream.

But when she had taken ofi" her skates
she stood hesitating. '' Grandmother said

I could buy my gown," she thought, " I
should like a gown well enough, but I can
do without it. T would much rather go
and see Madame Boulotte, and I have not
time fco do both." She stood a minute
longer, her dark eyes full of pensive
sweetness, her cheeks flushed carmine with
exercise ; all at once the eyes sparkled
brilliantly and the glow on her cheeks
deepened.

Yes, I will go and see Madame Boulotte,"
she said. " I have always gone to
see her, why should I not go to-day ?"

She walked quickly to the town, and
soon reached the small house near the
church, where Madame Boulotte lived and
let lodgings. Madame Boulotte opened
the door, and Jeanne found herself affectionately
kissed and drawn into the little
sitting-room before she had time to look at
her grandmother's friend.

This visit is delightful, my child." Madame
Boulotte drew a deep sigh of satisfaction,

passed her plump hand over her light,
frizzed curls to see if they were ruffled,
and sank softly into her easy chair. She
had been a very handsome woman, and
her face was still remarkable ; and though
she talked of herself as old, she loved
compliments, and considered that she had
still power to inspire a grande passion,

How well you look, my dear child !"
She gave Jeanne a scrutinising glance, and
then a patronising nod of approval. *rand
how is the grandmother ?"

'* She is much better, thank you. And
you, Madame, you look very well."

Ah, me; I am as you see me  well
enough, but I want employment ; my rooms
are empty, and I have only myself to think
of I whose life has been till now given
up to others. Ah, mon Bleu r she sighs
again, and settles her shapely feet on an
earthenware chaufferette, whose tint of faded
green would have made an artist covet it.
** My poor Edmund," she says presently.

I cannot bear to think what his life must
be now. Poor fellow, how he must miss
my  my friendship !"

Do you hear from him," says Jeanne,
simply, but her heart beats fast.

A little pink flush of vexation rises on
Madame Boulotte's well-preserved skin.
She is disappointed in Edmund Depuis,
she had thought her sympathy necessary to
her handsome young lodger, and he has
only written to her once since he left
Rimayy. She knows that he sometimes
went to Madame Delimoy's cottage, but
she had never dreamed of the frequency of
his visits there; it is she, she thinks, who
is his friend.

*' Yes, I have heard of him," she says, and
her handsome head becomes yet more
erect. " I have received a letter from him
since he left me  yes  yes, I have a letter ;
but, Jeanne, my heart is sore for the poor
young fellow  "

She looks at Jeanne and she stops suddenly.

The girl's bright eyes are fixed
on her with intense eagerness, and her
lips are parted with expectation.

I must tell some one what I have
heard of this poor young man* says the
widow to herself; "as well this child as
another, though she is too young to understand
sentiment. Yes, my dear child," she
goes on, aloud, '' he had better have stopped
at Rimayy  here he lived in an atmosphere
of sympathy, and was understood. Ah,
Jeanne, so few women are gifted with perception,
and no woman can make a man
happy unless she has this gift. Yes,
Edmund was truly happy here ; he was
understood, and what does the foolish
young fellow do ?" she shrugs her broad
shoulders, and presses her plump hands
together ; " he goes to Namur, where his
only friend is a fossil !"

Jeanne breaks into a merry laugh in spite
of her interest, for Madame Boulotte*s face
is full of comic disgust.

BESIDE THE RIVER.

Yes, it is true, my dear little friend, I
am not joking  this cousin of Edmund's 
this Monsieur Baconfoy, must be a fossil
he is actually a woman-hater, he despises
our sex. Edmund has told me
sayings of his cousin Jules which would
terrify you. Yes, he is an undoubted
fossil. Well then, where was I?  with
our poor Edmund  what does he do ? He
leaves his happiness here, my little friend."
Jeanne is taller than Madame Boulotte,
who sits looking up at her with appealing
eyes. "Yes, he leaves me and goes to
Namur, to solitude and the fossil. What
is the result ? Now, my dear child, can
you guess what is going to happen ?  "

Self-absorbed as she is, Madame
Boulotte feels checked in her rapid utterance
by the change in Jeanne. The
bright rich colour that has so set off
her shining hair, and the glow of her
deep liquid eyes, fades to a sudden
pallor ; the eyes themselves seem to

lose light and colour, and to fix in an
unmeaning stare.

'what ails you, child? how pale you
are ! Ah, it is the cold that has taken
you. Marie, Marie," she cries, and
hurrying across the room, puts her
head out of the door, '* bring a chaufferette
quick for Mam'selle Jeanne  you should
have mine, dear little friend," she pats
Jeanne's shoulder as she passes back
to the chair ; '' but the blood flies to my
head if I try to do without it  and a red
nose in a woman, you will agree, is of all
things to be avoided."

Here Marie bustles in with the chaufferette
and though Jeanne declares that the exercise
has made her feel as warm as a toast,
she has to submit to being coddled.
Frizzled-haired Marie looks round to see
that nothing more is wanted of her, and
departs. Then Madame Boulotte heaves
a deep sigh.

"We were talking about Monsieur

Depuis. Now, my dear little friend," she
says, " I do not say it has positively happened;
but"  sinking her voice, "it is
possible that Edmund is being drawn into
a serious flirtation."

Jeanne is not taken by surprise. She
has felt that there was a cause redmond's
silence ; her wish to see Madame Boulotte
had been to hear her fears confirmed, with
the mixture of longing and dread with
which one meets pain half-way when one
knows it to be inevitable ; who is she,
Jeanne asks herself, that such a man as
Edmund Depuis should keep heart-free for
her sake ?

*' Who is flirting with him ?" Jeanne
forces her voice to keep steady ; but it
sounds dull and strained.

Ah, child, that is well said ; that is the
right way of putting it, for truly if Edmund
Depuis flirts it is but to escape from the
isolation into which he has been thrown ;
he is, one may say, at the mercy of any

woman wbo chooses to take possession of
him. Bah !" she shrugs her shoulders,
you are too young to understand ; buta
report has reached me that Monsieur
Depuis and a certain Madame Ferage see
one another often. Madame Ferage is rich
the young widow of an old banker  not
ugly, amiable  and benevolent."

"If she has all these good qualities,"
Jeanne is bravely struggling against a
desperate dislike which had sprung up fullgrown
at the mention of Madame Ferage,
why should not Monsieur Depuis marry
her? If she is amiable, she will make a
good wife."

Madame Boulotte shakes her head, and
her hands too, with nervous irritation.

' I told you, you were too young, Jeanne,
to understand," she says, expressively.
'* Mon Bien ! are there not many amiable
fools, child ?  the world is full of them, and
no one can make a husband's heart ache asa
fool can. A fool is always right, and

VOL. I. F

when sbe makes mistakes that cannot be
disavowed, she has a smiling, pretty way
of pleading folly as an excuse for all errors.
She is not clever or strong-minded, thank
heaven,' she says, ' she is only a silly, loving
woman ;' and her husband, poor fellow, goes
his way appeased, and thinks what an
escape he has had from a maUresse femme,
who would surely have been a tyrant.
Poor fellow ! poor blind idiot ! I should have
said." Madame Boulotte's grey eyes light
up with indignation. '' Perhaps till death
releases him he will hardly know that a
silly woman is the worst of all despots."
She pauses for breath, rather surprised at
her own unusual vehemence.

Jeanne has recovered herself now ; she
smiles at her friend's outbreak. " Well,
then," she says, "if the man knows no better
he will be happy; but, Madame, how did
you hear this about Monsieur Depuis ?"

Madame Boulotte gives Jeanne a peculiar
look. " Ah, my dear little friend, I had

been talking and thinking of sou before you
came in to-day. My brother, Antoine, has
come back from Antwerp. He is doing well
there now ; he is a photographer. You
will soon see him, Jeanne; his first question
was for you,"

She smiles ; but the girl looks grave.

Did Monsieur Antoine bring you this
news from Namur ?" she asks.

*' Yes ; he saw yesterday the fossil
cousin. Monsieur Jules Baconfoy, and he
asked after Edmund. ' Ah, he was very dull
at first,' said Monsieur Baconfoy; *he had,
I fancy, left his heart behind him, poor
young fool,' and Antoine said the odious
man laughed loud enough to be heard across
the street; ' but he is mending fast,' he went
on  ' there is a certain Madame Erase
who is doing her best to console him, and,
onafoi, the young fool is singeing his wings
this time to more purpose.' "

Madame Boulotte stops ; her cheeks

F 2

red with anger, and her eyebrows closely
knit together.

"Is that all?" says Jeanne quietly.

And enough too, I think ; but Antoine
knew Madame Ferage some years ago when
he was at Liege, and he told me about her.
I do not say she will marry Edmund, but
she will flirt with him, and I dare say
make him miserable."

I will say good-bye now, Madame,"
says Jeanne, in a dull spiritless voice, and
she bends down her face to be kissed.

'* Do not be so long again, child, without
coming to see me, and I shall tell Antoine
that Madame Delimoy will be glad to see
him at the cottage. Au revoir, my dear
little friend."

CHAPTER III.

THE FOSSIL."

rpHE Hotel de la Grue is in one of
- the main streets of Namur, but only
a certain number of rooms look into
the street. You enter through a pair of
open gates under a broad archway, and
find yourself in a good-sized courtyard,
with a glazed roof, shut out from the
stables at its further end by a second pair
of large gates. On the right of the courtyard
are a few steps, and going up these
you find yourself in a pleasant al fresco
sitting-room paved with black and white
marble, also ceiled with glass, from which
hang terra cotta baskets, even in this
wintry season, gay and graceful with the

green of creeping plants. A sofa, some
chairs and several small iron tables show
that this is a favourite lounging-place of
the visitors to the Hotel de la Grue.

To-daj, though the sun is shining
warmly down through the glass overhead,
there is no one in this lounging-place
but the landlord, Monsieur Baconfoy. He
is enjoying his after-dinner cup of coffee,
he leans back on the sofa, and smoking a
cigar, is studying the Independance Beige
Footsteps coming up the yard from the
street disturb him. He rises slowly to
his full height of six feet, takes his cigar
from his mouth, and throws down the
paper. Then you see that he is a fine,
martial-looking man with a massive, square,
head and close-cut grey hair. He wears no
whiskers, but his shaggy eyebrows seem
trying to match his moustache. A bright
sweet smile spreads over his stern face ashe
sees his visitor; and yet through
the sweet smile there is an almost

pathetic sadness in his handsome dark
eyes.

'' Aha, my friend, you are welcome,
always welcome ; if it be," he adds, with
what seems when accompanied by so
genial a smile a forced cynicism, *' if it be
only because your ideas often make me
laugh, mafoV He begins to laugh gruffly
in anticipation. '' You are delicious for
freshness, my Edmund."

The tall slender young fellow laughs
back at him. " Then you ought to be
very grateful to me," he says. " What did
you do for amusement before I came to
Namur ?"

Monsieur Baconfoy shook his head.
My good Edmund, the world is full of
amusement for those whose sight is keen
enough, and their digestion good enough
to permit them to study others  for as
you must have observed a dyspeptic man
only studies himself and his stomach,
and lives in daily terror of what he eats

and drinks. Well, how is our sweet widow,
my Edmund ?" And again he burst into a
hearty laugh as he looked admiringly at
his handsome young cousin.

Edmund drew his fine brown eyebrows
together, and his eyes sparkled with
annoyance.

'' When will you learn to believe me,
Jules ?" he said, in a vexed voice. " I tell
you that my acquaintance with Madame
Ferage is of the most formal kind. I met
her at a friend's house, and I have calledon
her a few times  that is all. Let us
talk of something more interesting." He
turned away and began to light a fresh
cigar.

Monsieur Baconfoy sat down on the
sofa again, and whistled softly to himself.
I am not finding fault, Edmund," he said,
more seriously. " Frankly I am glad to seethe
change in you of late. I congratulate
you. When you first came here from
Eimay, I confess I found you a very dull

companion. You had lost your spirits;
you had, in fact, as it seemed to me,
left the best part of you at Rimayy."

The young man flushed deeply, and his
face looked full of pain. " Well," he said,
with a forced laugh, '' and pray what
change do you find in me now ? What
cause have I given for congratulation ?"

Aha, my friend, you are improving, as
I told Yidonze yesterday, if you must
make a fool of yourself with a woman,
this little widow seems a very hopeful
case."

Edmund had stood with his hand on
one of the chair backs in his usual bending
attitude, but now he turned angrily on his
cousin.

Jules ! you spoke about me and
Madame Ferage to that fellow Yidonze.
I detest him, though he is Madame Boulotte's
brother. I wish you would be
careful. You have done something you
cannot undo again."

He turned moodily away ; but Monsieur
Baconfoy put bis broad hand on ibis
cousin's shoulder.

''My poor lad, when will you learn
moderation ? Your mind is too active,
Edmund. I am not the only person in
Namur with eyes in my bead ; for aught
I know Yidonze himself bas already remarked
your attentions to Madame Ferage.
Take a cigar, my Edmund, smoke yourself
into serenity, I must go back to
my work. Ab ! mon cher, if you could
know the independence of living in an
atmosphere were women are of no
more account than fleas would be to
a rhinoceros. They are really no more
necessary than measles or whooping cough ;
however," be had reached the door leading:
to bis bureau, and there was a very cynical
smile on bis face, " I fancy yours is a
temperament for which there is only one
cure, bad as it is. You had better marry,
my Edmund," and he went into bis bureau.

The young man affected not to hear
him. He sat down and began to read the
newspaper, but very soon he dashed it
down on the iron table.

This is intolerable," he said. " Jules
is the last man I should have thought of
as a gossip ; but I suppose ridicule is
an amusement he cannot deny himself.
Vidonze will take all this tattle to his
sister. Well, she does not often see
Jeanne," he leaned back, watching the
pale blue smoke-wreaths as they floated
upwards from his cigar ; " but I will
run no risk," he said. " I will go to the
cottage once more, and see if she holds
by her resolution."

Again he sat thinking; words spoken
by Madame Boulotte came back to him
from disjointed conversations, in which
they had slipped by unheeded because
other subjects had quickly effaced them.
Yes, yes, he remembered very well that
his landlady had said her brother admired

little Jeanne, and that he had laughed at
the patronising way in which she had
added, she should not object to Jeanne asa
sister. Was it just possible that Jeanne's
coldness was not coldness after all, but
simply indifference to him because she
preferred that fellow Vidonze ? and if he
sought her now, might he not possibly
find Yidonze beside her  her accepted
lover ? Edmund's imagination set to work
at once  even if matters had not so far
progressed, for he remembered that Vidonze
had shown some jealousy once when he
found him at the cottage, there could be
no doubt but that Madame Boulotte
would take care that Jeanne knew the
gossip he had heard at Namur.

'' I remember she called him a chatterer."
He had blamed himself before for being
hasty, and if he went to the cottage now
the very sight of Jeanne would take away
all his self-control. He had often said to
himself that if he had been patient he

should have won her to confess her
love. No, he did not believe she cared for
Vidonze. He went on thinking ; he would
write to Jeanne, he thought; he would ask
her very lovingly and gently to give
him another hearing. He would even
promise to wait any time she pleased.
Her grandmother was very old, and he
thought that if she out-lived his patience,
he should prevail on Jeanne to yield to
his persuasion in the future.

It will be easy to find some one to
take care of the old woman," he said
to himself.

CHAPTER YL

A LETTER.

bald Madame Delimoy sat spinning.
 She looked upright and well, only
her immoveable figure and the slow
movement of her fingers told how very
old she was.

There was a cheerful wood-fire on the
open hearth, and this lit up the low-roofed
square room with its blaze, showing
the short curtain hanging from the
mantel-shelf, and the dresser full of
crockery opposite; a huge brass warming-pan
made a capital reflector, and sent a
ruddy light across the back of the room,
which was welcome  for on this winter
afternoon, in the closed in valley beside

the river, there was less light down here
than half way up the hills from whence
one saw that the sun was still above the
horizon.

But it seemed to strike the spinner all
at once that the light was fading, she
stopped her wheel, and grasping the
arras of her wooden chair she rose to her
feet. Her straight, rigid face was not so
pale as when Edmund went away, the
flush on it to-night was unusual, and her
deep sunk eyes, usually so still, moved
restlessly as she walked slowly across the
room to the window.

As she walked she was no longer erect,
her head sank on her chest and her
shoulders seemed to droop forward. But
when she reached the window she propped
herself against the wall and drew up her
head with a sigh of relief. Then slowly
she thrust her age-marked, trembling
fingers under the shawl crossed over her
bosom, and drew out a letter.

There came on her face the peculiar
smile that seems special to the old, in
which sagacity is at times blent with
cunning.

*' Jeanne has been in and out, to and fro,
all day ever since the postman brought it ;
she wanted to see my face when T read it.
No, no," and Madame Delimoy slowly
shrugged her shoulders.

The postman had that morning brought
a letter to the cottage, and Jeanne, who was
standing at the door, took it to her grandmother.
The girl did not know Edmund's
writing well ; but she saw the postmark
was Namur, and a secret instinct told her
it was from him, and Madame Delimoy
had seen a flush flicker over the clear
colourless face, as Jeanne held out this
letter to her.

The old woman took it, looked at it
slowly and curiously, and then laid it down
beside her.

Though she was a cold and worldly old

woman she had always been kind to Jeanne.
Her very selfishness had kept her from the
interference which a warmer interest in
the girl would have produced. Jeanne
had frankly told her everything except edmund's
confession of love, but, judging her
grandmother's nature by her own, Jeanne
had shrunk from confessing the sacrifice
she had made.

There was no subterfuge about Jeanne,
her simple direct nature always went
straight to its object. When she saw
the letter she thought the time had come
for explanation.

Why do you not read it, grandmother,"
sbe said, after a while.

Slowly the cold blue eyes fixed on the
girl's eager face so full of palpitating hope,
but Madame Delimoy's smile brought the
blood swiftly to Jeanne's cheeks.

Whom do you think it is from ?" she
said, coldly. It was hard to answer
under that scrutinizing gaze, but Jeanne

VOL. I. G

must be true. '' I think it is from edmund
Depuis, grandmother."

'sand if it is from him he has taken so long
to write to an old friend that I am not in a
h hurry to open his letter; when I have mended
my stockings I shall read it, not sooner  "

Her grandmother stopped, Jeanne had
turned away, for she felt her blushes grow
an angry red, but she had stood lingering.
Madame Delimoy's smile deepened the
creases near her mouth till they looked rigid.

You are curious, child. I never saw
you curious before, Jeanne; what ails you?"

The girl's heart swelled, she longed toto
throw her arms round the old woman's
neck and own her love, she hungered so
for help and syiiitpathy ; but she could not
bring herself do this. Her grandmother's
want of sympathy, her slow sarcastic
speeches, had strengthened the girl's
nature, and had taught her self-dependence,
but they had fostered an intense reserve,
and Jeanne shrank from speaking or thinking

about herself; uow she recoiled from
the idea of her grandmother's calm cynical
smile as if it had a terror in it. She had
repressed her emotion, and had gone away,
and, though she had kept passing in and
out, she had not again spoken of the letter.

Madame Delimoy slowly took off her
spectacles and wiped them as she leaned
against the window. Reading of any kind
to her was an unusual employment  and
reading a strange handwriting was likely
to be troublesome; yet she must read this
letter herself. She began to put on her
glasses,  then she stopped, her knotted
fingers trembled as she heard a man's voice,
an unusual sound, singing outside the cottage,
but the words of the song did not
reach her ears. They had already received
one of Death's first calls ; still she heard
something, and presently a loud knock at
the door from a sturdy fist, startled her
deaf ears.

Who's there ?" she pressed the letter

G 2

closely to her, and her voice quavered
shrilly.

Only me, only Antoine  Antoine
Yidonze," the loud, clear voice went on,
'' dont you know me, my good friend ?
Let me in. I have come all the way from
Namur to see you."

Involuntarily the old woman's eyes fell
on the letter, for she had already seen that
the postmark was Namur. It seemed to
her that there was a fortuitous link between
her visitor and Edmund Depuis' letter 
she andrew the bolts and opened the door.

Good day. Monsieur Vidonze," she said
gravely, '' we keep the door fastened now.
Jeanne comes in through the cow stable in
winter," and she looked at a small door
beside the fireplace. " Come in and sit
down."

Still holding her letter she walked with
difficulty to her arm-chair, and seated
herself, suppressing a groan as her joints
creaked with the effort.

Antoine Yidonze ran one hand through
his stiff red hair, and gave a careless look
around the room out of his large, prominent
eyes. He was a fine tall man enough, but
he wore a forest of hair, his brick-dust
coloured face looked too eager, and his
light-coloured eyes, with pale lashes,
seemed to devour everything around him.

"I hope Mademoiselle Jeanne is well,"
he said, seating himself. '' My sister told me
she looked blooming when she came over
to Rimayy." He fixed a keen glance on
the old, still face opposite.

Jeanne is well. She is on the hill.
You say you come from Namur. Are
you then settled at Namur, Monsieur
Antoine ?"

Monsieur Yidonze smiled till he showed
a set of white strong teeth, and very red
gums above them.

'' Aha, Madame, you are just the same
as ever, I see, you have not given up your
I'okes at my expense ; mafoly 1 shall never

forget Low on one occasion you told me you
would as soon bestow your grand-daughter
on a travelling tinker as upon me. Yes,
I have a house of my own at Namur."

The statue-like head turned ever so
little towards Monsieur Yidonze ; its pale
blue eyes met his with genuine surprise
in them. Jeanne had not told her grandmother
Madame Boulotte's news about
her brother, and this was a most unheard
of tone for the " vagabond, unsettled
Antoine Yidonze" to take in speaking to
his old friend.

Yes, yes, my good friend, my roving
days are over'* he said, in answer
to her looks, *' I can own my faults
now  the fact is I have at last found
an employment that suits me. My
uncle who died in the summer, left me
enough to pay my debts and something
over, and with this I have purchased the
business, stock and house, of Monsieur
Grandjean, the photographer of Namur.

Aha, Madame, let me tell you, it is an
excellent affair for me."

The old woman looked at him calmly,
and then that cold smile which so repressed
and troubled Jeanne, spread over
her face.

"What do you know about photography?"
she said, with a sneer. "I
remember yoa made a caricature of
Jeanne, when you tried to take her
portrait."

Antoine turned a little aside, and fumbled
in one of the pockets of his fawn-coloured
coat. He drew out of it a packet of
photographs, and, opening this, he held
out one to Madame Delimoy.

That is what I can do, Madame."

She fixed her spectacles firmly, and then
held the photograph in her shaking
fingers; as she gazed colour came into
the pale blue eyes, and they blinked as she
gave back the picture.

*' Yes, it is the place itself," she said.

BESIDE THE RIVER.

it is Dinant. I have not seen it since I
was married in the church there; I see
it looks just the same. Did you know
that I was from Dinant ?" she asked,
abruptly.

Yidonze hesitated a moment.

Yes," he said, " that is why I showed
you that view. I knew you would appreciate
it; I have always photographed more
or less, Madame, but I could not before
afford a good apparatus, so no one would
look at my efforts  mafoi, now I am the
fashion. I have already so much to do in the
way of taking portraits, that I have little
time for views ; and portraits are certain
money, people like them."

"Imbeciles," she muttered. *' They could
see themselves in their glass, but they
cannot see a picture like that every day."
Then, with a brisk change of voice, '' Why
do you tell me all this. Monsieur r"

He looked at her fixedly. There was a
slight sneer on his face, for he comprehended



that Antoine Yidonze, sometime a
banker's clerk, sometime a teacher in a
school, sometime a supernumerary in an
official bureau, a mere rolling stone,
was a very different person from Monsieur
Yidonze, proprietor of a good
house, and of the best photographic
studio in Namur; especially different in
the eyes of his listener; for the hard
usage which the world generally bestows
on those who do not possess its goods,
had sharpened Antoine's perception, and
he had long ago found out that a man
in Madame Delimoy's estimation was
weighed by his means, rather than by his
merit.

I fancy you can guess why, Madame,"
he answered gravely. " I can keep a wife
now, and I can offer you a home, Madame ;
and in short, if you will give me Jeanne, I
shall be ever grateful."

His face had softened as he went on,

and lie bent forward eagerly towards the
pale old woman.

She was smiling, but not genially, and
she patted with her forefinger the letter
she still held in her hand.

*' Suppose you come too late, Monsieur
Vidonze."

He started slightly, and his eyes
sparkled angrily. *' What do you mean,
Madame, and who is that letter
from ?"

He held out his hand with involuntary
movement ; and Madame Delimoy crumpled
up the letter under her shawl.

"You are hasty. Monsieur Vidonze;
you need not shout so loud. The letter
is from my young friend. Monsieur edmund
Depuis."

Depuis ! Bah ! he can have nothing to
say to Mademoiselle Jeanne, he is
courting some one else."

A tremor passed over the old woman,
then she laughed drily. '' Of that I know

nothing, but I know he cannot marry, he
has not enough to keep a wife."

Antoine Yidonze nodded.

You are right. Depuis has only what
he earns, and not much of that, and he
spends it ; he is the most careless fellow
I know about money, a spendthrift 
generous enough," he added this with
some compunction at the remembrance of
sundry loans he had been glad to ask for
while Edmund lodged with Madame Boulotte.


'' Fools and their money are soon
parted," the old woman said. " I ask you
how can he marry ?"

It is easy enough, when the woman
he is courting is rich ; she is Madame
Ferage, the widow of the old banker of
Liege, who died two years ago."

The old woman's eyes moved restlessly,
and her head shook with excitement.
Are you sure of what you say, Monsieur
Antoine ?"

Yidonze shrugged his shoulders. " I had
the news from his cousin, Monsieur
Baconfoy, of the Hotel la Grue ; he says
Depuis spends half his time with the young
widow."

Madame Delimoy put a hand on each
arm of her chair and drew herself up
stiffly.

'' If this is true, why, then, should he
write to me ?"

At this Antoine's eyes burned with
curiosity.

*' Did Depuis ask you to give him
Mam'selle Jeanne before he left Rimayy
Madame ?"

She did not turn her head, but a suspicious
glance showed in her sunken eyes as
they looked towards the cow-house ; she
raised a finger warningly.

He went to the door and looked, then
he came closer to her. " I am answered,"
he said in a lower voice. Antoine remembered
what she had told him about

Jeanne. He glanced at the letter which

Madame Dehmov had again brought from

under her shawl, and he saw that the seal

was unbrok en.

'' Had you not better see what he says,

Madame ? but I tell you he is sure to marry

Madame Ferage, she is rich : he would bea

fool to give up such a chance. Mafoi,

he need never do a stroke of work again."

Perhaps he writes to tell me so."

It is possible ; but why do you not

make sure ?" His eyes devoured the letter

in her trembling hand. '' Shall I read it

for you," he cried impatiently, and he held

out his hand.

The calm smile he so well remembered

spread over her face, just the smile with

which two years ago she had told him she

would as soon give her grandchild to a

travelling tinker as to him.

Thank you," she bent her head stiffly ;

I do not hear so well as I did, but my

eyesight is still good."

She raised the letter nearer to her eyes,
and broke the seal.

Antoine Yidonze fixed his glaring eyes on
her face while she read ; but the face, bent
now slightly over the letter, was sphinx
in its stillness  presently she refolded
the letter, and peered inside the envelope.
There is also a note for Jeanne," she
said.

Vidonze could not restrain himself. He
got up and stood beside Madame Delimoy.

Does he tell you about Madame
Ferage ?" he said, in a fierce, eager voice.

He spoke close to her ear, and the old
woman started ; a red flush mounted to
her forehead, and she looked angrily at
Antoine.

"Why need you speak so loud, Monsieur?
He says nothing about her."

But Yidonze felt that he had no time to
spare. Jeanne might come in at any
moment, and perhaps her grandmother
would give her Depuis' letter.

He asks you to give him Mam'selle
Jeanne ? tell me," he said, sternly. As he
bent over her, his eyes glowering from
under his thick, red brows, the old woman
felt all at once the strength of his will, and
she began to tremble.

Why are you angry ?" she said in a
shrill, shaky tone ; '' have I not always
been good to you?"

Yes, Madame, very good, most kind ;"
he sneered. '' Why do you not answer my
question ? What does he say ?"

He says he loves the child as much as
ever," she spoke feebly, " and that he
wants her for his wife."

Vidonze laughed.

His wife  good  I like his impudence;
and on what does he propose to keep house
for you and Jeanne, Madame ?"

The colour faded out of the old woman's
face, and a sudden look of suspicion filled
it. She opened the letter, and read it
through again.

Well, Madame, what does be say ?"

'* He speaks only of Jeanne," she said.

Open the other letter," said Yidonze,
keeping his eyes firmly on her face ; " you
have a right to see what he writes to
Mam'selle Jeanne; open it, Madame."

Mechanically she pulls out the other
letter. She can hardly hold it, her fingers
so quiver with agitation. Yidonze bends
down, gnawing his under-lip with anxiety.
But Madame Delimoy does not open the letter.
She hesitates and looks up at Yidonze.

Jeanne will be here directly, and she
will show me what he has written. She is
a good child, as open as light itself; she
keeps nothing from me." She glances
towards the door of the cow-house,
and sits with her head bent forward,
listening.

Yidonze feels as if he must snatch the
letter from her hands.

' See what you are doing by your delay,"
he says impetuously; "you should rather

keep the poor girl from all knowledge of this
fellow's proposal. I tell you, Madame,
he is courting another woman, and Jeanne
knows it ; my sister told her about it when
she last came to E/imay."

Slowly a flash of intelligence reveals itself
in those pale, sunken eyes. Madame Delimoy
remembers how quiet the girl was when
she came back from her visit to Madame
Boulotte, and how quiet she has been ever
since.

What does it all mean ?" she wonders ;
and yet Edmund asks me to give him
Jeanne. Tell me again what Monsieur
Baconfoy said," she says to Antoine; " perhaps
you mistook his meaning."

He gives himself an angry shake, and
curses her mentally ; then he says, in an
injured voice : " There is no mistake,
Madame ; Edmund Depuis spends a part
of every day with the widow Ferage.
I tell you she is young and rich and pretty,
and he will no doubt end by marrying her

Vote. 1. H

The only way in which I can interpret the
proposal to you in that letter," he looked
determinedly at her, '' is that he has
already asked you for Mam'selle Jeanne,
and has got from you an indefinite answer;
he now gives you the chance of refusing
him decidedly, for he must know that you
will have heard of this new affair ; everyone
knows it at Namur."

If that is so," she says, '' it is an
insult to me, and to Jeanne also." She
begins to open Jeanne's letter. '' I will
see what he proposes to the child."

The old woman's face flushes, she
trembles with anger ; as she reads her
caution forsakes her. " I am ' a poor old
woman, who is to be tenderly cared for,'
is that so ? ' A servant of my cousin's, who
is old too, and who wants a home, will be
just the person to take your place beside
your grandmother;' and he dares to write
this to my child, and to say he loves her,
and he is paying open court to another

woman. The villain !" she pauses for
breath, flattening the letter under her trembling
hands, " he says he can only offer
the child a small lodging, for some years ;
he expects to be poor. What can he mean.
My Jeanne does not want to marry unless
she gets a good house and a provision
for her old days ; for what else should a girl
marry ?" She sits trembling, the flush
fades, she is paler than ever, from this
most unwonted outburst. The strength
which her excitement has brought is slipping
away, and she feels feebler than before.

Vidonze watches her keenly, and he
sees how exhausted she is  she is in
his power now. '' I could not have
thought Edmund Depuis would have
done this," he says ; '' even if he wished to
marry Mademoiselle Jeanne, he should
not have tried to separate her from you ;
his letter is an insult to you, and to you
both; how could you part from your child,
Madame? After what I have heard at

H 2

Namur you will do well to put both these
letters in the fire."

Jeanne would never leave me, she has
promised," and the feeble fingers close
on the crisp paper.

Yidonze smiles.

But do you not see I speak for
Jeanne's sake ? doubtless she would not
leave you ; I would never ask her to doit.
Why disturb her innocent mind by
that letter ?"

She fixes her eyes once more searchingly
on Vidonze's face. "You are sure,
Antoine Yidonze, you have told the
truth ?" she says slowly.

'* Yes, Madame, the plain truth."

She crumples up both letters and flings
them away into the burning logs.

Yidonze sets the heel of his boot on the
flaming papers, so that no fitful gust from
the chimney may rob the greedy fire of
its prey. "You have done well and
bravely, Madame," he says.



While be still stands thus, he hears
Jeanne's clear voice speaking to the cow,
and he sees the latch of the door rise.

You will give her to me, it is a
promise," he says close to her ear.

Yes, I promise," says the feeble
voice, and Jeanne runs into the cottage.

CHAPTER Iii.

A YOUNG WIDOW.

f\N the ground floor of a small house in
 one of the quiet streets of Namur
there is a window noticed by all the
passers-by; on one side of it is the
little mirror, fixed so as to reflect
the passers in the street long before
they come in sight of anyone within the
nest of leaves and flowers that make the
window so attractive; the little balcony
outside is gay with crocuses and early
tulips, and on a table just within is a
charming background of ferns, while overhead
a hanging basket flings down clinging
tendrils, that seem to caress the head of

Madame Ferage as she sits gazing at the
reflector, yet keeping herself out of sight.

There is a contradiction in the pretty
gazing face ; a pensive sweetness in the
dark eyes, and yet a fluttered impatience
that contrasts well with the rest of her
bright, dark face, and with the glowing skin,
through which the blood seems to course
warmly, and yet is at war with the
pensive sweetness which gives to Madame
Ferage the habitual air of a dark-eyed
Madonna. She is a tiny creature; but
she is well-formed, and sitting now beside
this window is unconscious of the simple
grace of her attitude. She soon alters it,
she is too feverish and restless to keep
still, and as the light falls more fully
on her face it is easy to see that she has
been crying.

I cannot give up hope," she says to herself
; " there must be some good cause for
his absence. He is so very kind ; he has
always been anxious to put happiness into

my life ; he would not leave off coming for
mere caprice''

This poor gentle little woman had hitherto
known little happiness. She had been
brought up in a dull old house at Malines,
not unkindly, but coldly, by a book-absorbed
father, and a stepmother who
thought dumb beasts were preferable
to her fellow-creatures. Little Pauline
seldom saw her father, and was always
warned against disturbing him at his
studies. She was not sent to school,
where she might have made herself friends,
and have been developed by contact
with other children ; instead she had
a tall, stylish-looking, self-absorbed
governess, at war with the world and
wholly unsympathetic, and for companions
a parrot, four cats, and two superannuated
pug dogs. Her stepmother was not unkind,
but she was an invalid; moreover,
she detested children. She kissed Pauline
night and morning, she taught her to say

her prayers, gave her a good nurse, and,
when she was old enough, a very clever
governess ; and she thanked heaven daily
for having made her so good a mother.

Mademoiselle Elise Herkenne was very
clever; there was nothing she could not
do in the way of brain work. She was accomplished,
and when she was in a good
temper would enchant little Pauline by her
singing and her playing ; but she sang and
played to please herself, the idea of living
for anyone but herself, or of giving this
poor little lonely child anything besides
the education she was paid to give, would
have been something beyond the comprehension
of even Mademoiselle Elise's keen wits.
She had one ruling idea, and in this she
was always absorbed : how could she advance
herself in life ? how quit the detestable
employment by which she earned
a living ? Woe to little Pauline if she disturbed
Mademoiselle Herkenne's reveries;
and the child, timid by nature, shrank into

herself and learned to play softly with the
cats and the cross old dogs at the far offend
of the school-room. She was not
clever or quick at learning, and as she
grew older the preparation of her studies
took all her time, except that given to
tasks of needlework.

For reasons best known to herself,
Pauline's stepmother never asked Mademoiselle
Herkenne to join the family circle.
She and Pauline took their solitary meals
together in the dull, bare room where they
studied. On Sunday the governess could
go and see her friends, and Pauline was
allowed to look at picture-books in the
salon ; but if visitors came she was usually
sent away.

Her seventeenth birthday happened to
fall on a Sunday, and, to her surprise, when
two gentlemen came in her stepmother
did not send her away, but presently
called her and presented her to them.
Pauline thought them dull ; at first she had

felt, spite of her shyness, excited at the
idea of speaking to strangers ; but one of
these gentlemen was short and fat, and ,
and the other, though
he smiled and seemed pleasant, had so red
a face that she did not find him attractive
to look at. When Mademoiselle Herkenne
appeared next morning, she began to
question Pauline about her birthday ; and
the girl was puzzled by the inquisitiveness
her governess showed respecting the
visitors.

A few days after, when she was in
despair over a very difficult German exercise,
a summons came for her from her
stepmother.

This was such an unheard of proceeding
that Pauline felt frightened. She began
to anticipate a scolding, for she knew that
Mademoiselle Herkenne was never satisfied
with her devoirs.

But when she reached the dining-room
her father sat at one end of the breakfast-table

and her stepmother at the other, and
they both smiled at her as she came in. She
went up and held her forehead dutifully to
each for a kiss. Sometimes, very rarely
however, when she had seen her father
alone she had ventured to put her arms
round his neck, and her caress had been
warmly returned, but this was when she
was younger ; in his wife's presence he was
always absent and dreamy, and Pauline
dared not rouse him from what her stepmother
had once told her were his
studies.

What have you been about, child ?"
Her stepmother seemed struck with the
girl's scared face.

My German exercise, mamma."

'' Do you like German, my child ?" Her
father looked up at her.

Yes," she said, smiling shyly ; she felt
less afraid of her father than of her stepmother
; 'but I like my music best of
all."

The stepmother smiled, though she was
not sure that the utterance of a decided
opinion was becoming in so young a girl.

You will have abundant time for German
and music too," she said, " in future.
Your school life is ended, Pauline. I have
dismissed Mademoiselle Herkenne, and
you are going to be married."

Poor little Pauline, she had read no
love stories, but in her child's heart there
was a longing for freedom and for love.
Marriage to her meant the dull shut-up
life of her father and her stepmother, and
she burst into sudden sobbing.

Her father grew red ; he pulled off his
spectacles, and looked reproachfully at
his wife. The scheme seemed to be turning
out less well than he expected, and he
considered that his wife ought to bear all
the blame of the failure. But though his
wife was deficient both in feeling and
intellect, her strength of will never failed,
it came to help her now, but with it the

warning that a girl could not quite be
made to take her husband as she took a
pill  she perceived that the dose must be
sugared.

*' You must not be a baby, Pauline,"
she said. " I have heard Mademoiselle
Herkenne say that you love flowers, and
that you are always wishing we lived in
the country ; when you are married you
will live in the country. I thought I was
offering you a treat. It is a pity you
are always silly, child."

She sighed deeply, and leaned back,
putting her hand to her heart, while poor
trembling Pauline felt herself a monster of
ingratitude, and choked down her quivering
sobs.

"Please tell me what you wish, mamma,"
she said.

The stepmother shot a triumphant glance
at her husband. She had till now been
afraid he might interpose some weak relenting
in favour of Pauline.

"That is wise." She smiled in a superior
fashion. " Your father proposes that
you should marry Monsieur Ferage. This
gentleman is very rich, and has a beautiful
country-house near Liege. You will have
more flowers than you ever saw in your
life, a large garden, a wood, a lake, fruit
of all kinds, a carriage and horses,
plenty of dresses and servants, and a beautiful
piano of your own." At this last
word Pauline's eyes cleared from their
terrified expression. She was only allowed
to touch the piano in practice hours, and
it was in the room where her stepmother
always sat. Mademoiselle Herkenne usurped
the pianoforte in the school-room. " Well,"
her stepmother had waited some minutes
for her answer, *' have you nothing to say,
Pauline ?"

The girl's hands had hung down beside
her, now she pressed them nervously together
as she strove for courage to
speak.

Must I go away alone with this Monsieur
Ferage ?" she said. '' I don't know
him, mamma." There was almost a cry
in the sweet, trembling voice. The child
felt so frightened.

Then her father spoke huskily. " You
shall not go at all unless you wish it, my
child; but it is a great chance for you.
AVben we die there will be no one to take
care of you, and we are not rich, Pauline ;
and Monsieur Ferage is very fond of you.
He  he," he stammered, with a certain
self-consciousness of his own neglect of
this helpless child, ' will be kinder to you
than we have been, Pauline. I mean you
will be more cheerful."

"Bah!" said his wife, with her usual
alertness, '' you are sentimental, Louis.
You have seen Monsieur Ferage, child,"
she went on; "he was the tallest of the
two gentlemen you saw on Sunday. He
asked you if you liked flowers, he is  "

She stopped, for Pauline's face had

lengthened, and it was evident that she
was going to cry again  great drops were
balancing themselves on her eye-lashes.

That was a very old gentleman,
mamma."

Child, child  his hair has turned grey,
that is all ; he is not nearly so old as your
father is ; but he is ever so fond of you;
he will spoil you, and give you flowers
every day. Now go upstairs and tell
Valerie to put you on your new frock, and
then come to me for a ribbon for your hair.
Make yourself look as nice as you can,
Pauline, and who knows perhaps we may
all take a trip to Brussels this afternoon."

Pauline went upstairs; she was too much
disturbed by her alarm and her excitement
to be able to think even when she
came downstairs decked to meet her fate.

Monsieur Ferage met them at the 
; his face was very red, but he
was kind and devoted ; and the little girl
learned to her surprise that she was a person

VOL. I. I

of consequence. Monsieur Ferage came to
see her every day. She was taken to Liege
to see the country-house and the charming
garden that were to be hers, and her
heart swelled at t-he thought that this
would all be her own. She still shrank
from Monsieur Ferage's red face, but he
was very kind, and he made her such
beautiful presents that she began to feel
friendly towards him. The poor child
fancied she must be in a dream. Her time
was so taken up by dressmakers and excursions
that she had no time for reflection, and
she had not even Mademoiselle Herkenne to
take counsel with. The governess had
been suddenly sent away. Pauline was
truly in a dream, but the awakening
came some wrecks later when she found
herself established in the chateau near
Liege. She then discovered that she
had married a husband who drank
incessantly, who could scarcely bear
her to be out of his sight, and who

became furiously jealous if she tried to
make an acquaintance for herself. This
terrible penance had lasted five years,
and when it ended with her tyrant's
sudden death, Pauline found herself shyer
than ever, with an utter distrust of herself.
She came to live at Namur, her father and
her stepmother were dead, but she would
not go back to Malines. The remembrance
of her miserable childhood, and of
her forced marriage haunted her. Her
marriage life had been a time of torture,
but she had gained knowledge in it. She
had found books in her husband's chateau,
and among them some plays and novels. In
these she had discovered her own vague
dreams of love set forth as realities, and although
she was too timid to hope that anyone
would ever think her worthy of truelove,
still she shrank from the atmosphere of
repression recalled by the town in which
her childish years had passed. If she
even saw a photograph of the massive

I 2

towered church in the Grande Place of
Malines, she would begin to tremble, and
all self-possession deserted her.

She was so timid that she had made few
acquaintances in Namur, but she was
known to be wealthy, and very soon some
of the ladies she met at the Bureau de
Bienfaisance, a society of which she at
once became a member, asked permission
to visit her, and, when her period of mourning
was over, they invited her to little evening
receptions.

At one of these she met Edmund Depuis,
and became at once deeply interested in
him. He scarcely looked at her, he
seemed too sad to notice anyone, but
when he was presented to the shy,
little girlish creature, something in her
sweet voice soothed and attracted him.

She was so simple, so utterly unconventional,
that the poor fellow felt safe
with her and stayed beside her all the
evening.

Poor little Pauline ! when she went
home that night, it seemed as if she had
been lifted to a mountain's-top, where the
air blew fresh and free  never had such a
gladness come into her life. Sometimes
in the faces of others she had been startled
bj the sight of a joy beyond her comprehension,
and had gone on her way pondering
and puzzled. She knew what it meant
now, she saw that stage books were not the
romances she had considered them  there
was real happiness in Use besides the only
happiness she had yet known, that of benefiting
others, and then with the feeling of
bright joy came its shadow  impatience.
Patient, gentle Pauline, who had always
yielded up her own will, and waited for her
way to be shown her, found herself strangely
stirred; it seemed to her as if she could
not live through the hours till she saw
Monsieur Depuis again.

She was no longer quite so childish as
when she married ; the life she had led with

her husband, while it had cowed her spirit,
had given her the knowledge that reading
teaches, and though she had spent her two
years of mourning in retirement at Namur,
she had been thrown more in contact with
the outside world than she had ever been
before.

It was not therefore difficult, now that
she had begun to visit some of these
ladies, to make sure that she should again
enjoy the happiness of seeing Monsieur
Depuis. She was so very quiet, so apparently
unselfish, that when she asked her
friends to spend an evening with her,
and told the lady at whose house she
had met Monsieur Depuis, she would
be glad if she would bring him with her
young people  it was only considered a
fresh proof of the benevolence of the
sweet little widow, and the lady who had
already destined Edmund for her own
passee eldest daughter, thought what a
charming house Madame Ferage's would

be for the young people to meet in. It
never occurred to her that the timid little
widow might prove a dangerous rival.

But Madame Ferage only gave this one
soiree, which proved a success to her and
her guests. It opened her doors to
Edmund Depuis, and that was all she
wanted. He found her society very soothing.
She was so amiable, she listened so
patiently to bis railings against the world
and against the profession which he followed
and disliked, to his theories of what
life might be if each man did only that
which he chose to do and got all he wanted ;
by degrees Edmund gave up his other
friends, more than once his heart seemed
to open to a sudden perception of the
widow's true sympathy, and he had nearly
confessed to her the tale of his love and of
his sorrow.

But since he had written to Madame
Delimoy and to Jeanne, Edmund had not
been to see Madame Ferage. At last he

had conquered bis pride, he had poured
out his love to Jeanne, though it humbled
him deeply to confess that he could only
ask her to share his bachelor lodging, instead
of giving her a home of her own.
Still he felt happier and full of new hope,
after he had written. He no longer
needed Madame Forage's society  he was
so full of excitement and impatience that
he liked best to be alone. Three months
of delay had cost him much suffering,
and now he felt unable to bear suspense.
He was sure that Jeanne would
be his, he even forgave her first refusal,
it had been an over-zeal, an overstrained
sense of duty to her grandmother he
thought, her care for Madame Delimoy had
made her untrue to her own feelings. Love
with its usual selfishness towards all women
except the beloved one, made Edmund
forget that the young widow would miss
his almost daily visits ; though, as he had
given up his other friends for her, he

might have reflected that his acquaintance
with Madame Ferage must have attracted
some notice in so small a town as Namur,
and that therefore this sudden rupture
would expose her to comment, but he
almost forgot her existence.

So Pauline sat day after day at her
window, her eyes fixed on the little mirror,
hoping to catch even a glimpse of the friend
who had deserted her.

*' Would it have been better," she
asked sadly, " if I had never known such
happiness as I have known with him ;" she
shook her head, " the very sight of him
makes me happy  life seems so much
more dreary without him. No, life has
only been real since we met  before I was
always craving for something in which I
did not believe."

CHAPTER Viii.

Jeanne's struggle.

*' TIRUIT that ripens late is always
-*- good' is a proverb very often verified
; but it is of larger application than
the sense to which its final word points.
Late development in other things than
fruit produces power, but not always
goodness.

Antoine Vidonze had ripened late, and
the conviction that money is power had
determined him to use strength of will,
hitherto undeveloped, in turning all things
to his own advantage.

When he saw Jeanne's pale, noble face
come out of the darkness into the ruddy

glare of the firelight, he did not trouble
to ask himself if he could make the young
girl happy as his wife, or even if she loved
Edmund Depuis, as he once fancied she did.
He resolved that Jeanne should marry him ;
she was under age, and he had her grandmother's
consent. She was his ; but as he
seldom went direct to any object, he dissembled
his feelings when he spoke to her.

Jeanne had started when she saw her
grandmother was not alone. She knew
that Madame Delimoy had quarrelled with
Monsieur Yidonze, and that he had not
been to the cottage for more than a year.

Shake hands with Monsieur Antoine,"
her grandmother said ; *' it is long since he
has paid us a visit."

Jeanne gave her hand, wondering at
this change in her grandmother ; but her
head was too full of her own recent adventures
to receive any new impression
distinctly, it had all been so fresh and
delightful ; and yet she did not want

to tell her grandmother what had
been happening to her before Monsieur
Yidonze. He stood staring at her, and
she thought how red and coarse-looking
he had become.

You are late, child," her grandmother
said ; " where have sou been ?"

She must tell now.

It is Monsieur le Cure's fault," she
smiled, " he said you would not mind. 1
went to see Rose, and coming home, all at
once, just before you come in sight of the
end of the road, I met Monsieur le Cure
and a lady and gentleman. Monsieur le
Cure beckoned me."

' Come here, Jeanne,' he said, ' I want
you. I was looking for some one to show
this gentleman and lady their way ; they
have lost it ; they want to go to Beville 
can you guide them?'

I said yes, I could ; but I was afraid you
would miss me; but Monsieur le Cure
laughed, he said ' It is all right, my child,'

and then he said to the gentleman and lady,
I rust go home to some sick people; but
Jeanne Lahaye is a better guide than I am.'
Was not that kind, grandmother ?"

*' Monsieur le Cur is always right," said
Madame Delimoy.

And you went to Beville with these
strangers?" Yidonze looked suspicious, he
felt that Jeanne belonged to him, and that
she had no right to be going about in this
way.

Jeanne opened her bright brown eyes.
You are such a stranger here. Monsieur
Yidonze, that you have forgotten how far it
is to Beville. No, I did not go so far ; I
took the gentleman and lady across thrills,
and I showed them the road ; we could not
go fast, for the gentleman was ill and
lame." Yidonze gave a sigh of relief. "But
the lady is so pleasant  she asked if she
might come and see you, grandmother, and
I said Yes."

'' They are English tourists, perhaps ?"

Vidouze asked eagerly. He was thinking
of his photographs.

Jeanne was puzzled bj the interest he
showed. She wished he would go ; she
wanted to talk about her new friends
without the restraint of his presence. She
was in such a flow of excited happy feelings
she could scarcely keep it within bounds.

'' They are not English ; they come from
Remouchamps. Oh, grandmother, they so
much want to see you."

Madame Deliraoy roused. She had been
puzzling what was the best thing to do
with Jeanne, and now she resolved to send
Vidonze away before he could give the girl
a hint of his intentions. Just now she had
yielded to the power his strong will exercised
over her; but the sight of Jeanne,
the sound of her clear, true voice, had
weakened the spell. Madame Delimoy resolved
that she would be free of Edmund
Depuis before she gave Jeanne to Antoine
Vidonze.

Monsieur' she bent her head with
stately politeness, *you must come again
some day to show us your photographs, it
is too dark to see them now."

Antoine smiled, he was much too wise
to resist her wishes now that he had destroyed
his rival's hopes.

Then I will say au revoir to you and
Mam'selle Jeanne. Perhaps, at her next
visit to Rima}, Mam'selle Jeanne will allow
me to take her portrait'

Jeanne clapped her hands with
delight.

'' Thank you," she said, " that would
be pleasant ; but, Monsieur, if you could
bring your machine here, and photograph
grandmother and Merette, it would be
delightful."

Vidonze gave her a radiant smile. " It
shall be so," he said. " I will bring the
machine early in the day, so as to have
good light to work by, if I have the permission
of Madame Delimoy." He looked

entreatingly at the old woman, but her
quiet smile re-assured him.

"Be satisfied, Monsieur," she said, "if
I sit to anyone for my portrait, it shall
be to you."

The door closed behind him, and then
Jeanne knelt beside Madame Delimoy.
Her fresh young face came close against
the faded wrinkled one. The old woman
thought it was long since she had seen
her grandchild so full of buoyant happiness.
The passionate love Edmund had
expressed in his letter to Jeanne came
back to her, and her breath was quicker
than usual. There was a tender spot
in her heart for the handsome young
fellow. What a fine couple those two
would make, she thought, as the
flickering firelight showed now the clear
pure skin, and now the bright eyes and
sunny hair that nestled against her
shawl.

The lady is so kind, grandmother, and

Jeanne S DECISION.

she says she saw you once when you lived
at Dinant with grandfather. She says
grandfather was her doctor; her name
is Mademoiselle de Matagne, and she
calls her brother Eugene. She told
me her own name was Claude."

The grandmother smiled in the cold
cynical way that always repressed Jeanne.

She seems to be young for her age
this new acquaintance of yours, to have
got so far as to telling her Christian name
to a little girl who guides her over the hills."

Jeanne remained silent, her exuberant
gladness was hushed ; it was plain,
she thought, that grandmother took
no interest in her adventure. Presently
Madame Delimoy spoke.

I do not remember the name De
Matagne ; but your grandfather had many
patients, and I did not know them all. Are
these strangers staying for long atBeville?"

This was all Jeanne wanted ; she slipped
her arm round the old woman, gave her

VOL. I. K

a beauty squeeze, and then began again
to chatter gaily.

It was hearing your name, grandmother,
that made her care about me. Oh,
she has been so kind. She gathered the
wild flowers, and told me their names,
and said she would bring me some books
when she came again. She said," here
Jeanne's voice grew a little constrained
and nervous, 'she wished I could go to
their chateau at Kemouchamps, and then
she would show me pictures and books,
and teach me to sketch as Monsieur, her
brother, does."

"Was the brother as affectionate as the
sister ?" said Madame Delimoy's cold
voice. " They must be a strange pair, I
think."

Jeanne flushed; with all her love for
Madame Delimoy she did not always think
her right, and she thought her unjust now
to judge people she had never seen.

Monsieur de Matagne scarcely spoke ;

he is much older than his sister, and he is
an invaded."

'' Are they rich people ?" said Madame
Delimoy.

Jeanne paused to consider. " She was
not richly dressed. I do not know, grandmother."


Where do they live, did you say ?"
* She said they had a chateau at Remus
and that, as I loved flowers she
knew I should like to see her garden. It
is full of beautiful flowers, she says even
now under glass she has lovely flowers of
all kinds."

Madame Delimoy gave a nod of approval.
" Yes, she must be rich, child."

Then," Jeanne clasped her hands
round the old woman's arm, and looked
up at her with sparkling eyes, " you are
glad she is coming to see you, grandmother
?"

Madame Delimoy smiled. *' I may remember
her when I see her, but I have to

K 2

speak to you about business, Jeanne."

Jeanne was still clasping the withered
arm, and as she felt it tremble within her
fingers, her trouble of the morning came
back. She felt she had been heartless to
take so much pleasure in this new acquaintance.


Yes," she said, quietly. '' What is it,
grandmother?"

That letter," the voice was very shrill
and quavers, *' that came this morning
was from Edmund Depuis. Do you know
what it was about, my child ?"

There was more feeling in her words
than Jeanne had ever heard there; she
felt that grandmother did sympathise with
her after all.

*' 1 can guess." Her pale cheeks glowed
in the firelight.

Yes," the words came slowly as if she
feared their effect ; " he wrote to ask me
for you, Jeanne. He wants to take you
away from me."

Jeanne loosened her clasp of her grandmother's
arm ; she seated herself, and her
hands fell into her lap.

May I see the letter, grandmother ?"
She did not look up ; she bent down over
her clasped hands as if she were cold. She
did not see the sudden flush that rose
on the old woman's face, nor feel the
tremor that shook her frame.

I have not got it here," she said, '' but
I will tell you what was in it. Monsieur
Depuis wishes you to be his wife, Jeanne; he
says his cousin has an old servant who will
come and take care of me for the rest of
my life. He does not want me at Namur ;
he wants you by yourself. You must tell
me the answer I am to send him, child."

For a minute or two longer the girl sat
crouching, then she raised her head and
looked at Madame Delimoy.

'' Grandmother, 1 cannot believe Edmund
said that. He asked me to marry him,
and I told him that I could not leave

you ; and then you were stronger than you

are now."

You told this to Monsieur Depuis, and
you did not tell me that he had asked you
to be his wife ?"

Madame Delimoy's face was full of reproach.


But Jeanne's steadfast eyes met hers
without any compunction in them.

'' No, I did not tell you," she said
earnestly. " I did not care to say I had
given him up for your sake." She stopped ;
her heart was full of pain, once more
Edmond'slove was offered to her, and now
she had learned to prize it dearly  she
could not give it up again.

Madame Delimoy moved uneasily. She
was touched, and natural feeling was drawing
her to the conclusion that Jeanne
loved young Depuis ; her silence betrayed
her ; but self  that one deadly insatiable sin
of the Seven Sins of the House of Pride 
would not let Madame Delimoy listen to



her feelings ; a dim dread lest they might
grow too strong for her interposed, and
she called up the remembrance of Yidonze.
She would learn all about his means and his
house before she ratified her promise ; but
it would be easy enough to do this, his
sister, Madame Boulotte, would not encourage
him to take a wife unless he were
justified in so doing. If Jeanne married
Vidonze, many future comforts might yet
be in store for Madame Delimoy ; her good
angel folded his wings and fled, and then
sophistry claimed her wholly. Jeanne would
be so much better off; she would have
dresses, a servant, money when she needed
it, instead of being, as her mother had
been, poor, and having to work all her life.

Cannot I see Edmund's letter ?" persisted
Jeanne.

Madame Delimoy frowned.

"I tell you it is not here," she said. *show
can you doubt me, child ? Why need I
have told you anything ? It is as I say.

and I ask you if you wish to leave me here
alone and marry Edmund Dapuis ? He
asks me for you in a formal manner, so I
must answer his letter formally."

Something stirred the young girl's heart;
it took voice and cried out that Edmund
had not done this cold, heartless thing, just
what any stranger might have done; and
then she looked at the calm face  so far in
the shadow cast by the angle of the
chimney, with the curtain of checked
cotton, that only the severe outline showed
how could she doubt her grandmother.

By this time Madame Delimoy had succeeded
in forgetting the glowing words in
Edmund's second letter, and she felt freer to
deal with Jeanne.

I must tell you all, child. Monsieur
Yidonze says that Edmund Depuis is
courting a rich young widow at Namur. He
must be false either to you or her, child,
and a false husband will never satisfy
you, Jeanne."

This did not touch the girl as she expected
it would. Jeanne sat silent a few
moments, then she said : 

'' I heard that before. Madame Boulotte
told me the day I went to Eimay ; but,
grandmother, you have taught me to dis-behave
gossip. I did not believe it then,
nor do I now."

Do you mean that you know better than
anyone else." There was an unwonted
vivacity about her grandmother to-night
that puzzled Jeanne.

I know Bdmond too well to believe that
he could act a double part," said Jeanne
hotly.

There was a silence.

Grandmother," the girl knelt down
before her, " I was hasty  forgive me. I
want to be by myself and think. I feel that
this is too important a matter to be settled
in a hurry. Can you not wait till tomorrow
morning before you write to
Edraond."

Madame Delimoy paused too, but it was
only to get strength for what lay before
her.

No Jeanne," she said, " I never put off
things, it must be done to-day. You have
time to think, it is but four o'clock, and we
have still some hours before bedtime ; but
I must ask you to write that letter to-night,
it will then be ready for the postman as he
passes on his way to Rimayy."

Jeanne made no answer. She rose from
her knees and went up the creaking outside
staircase to her own room.

It was only a little room with a tiny
window under the eaves, but it was her
own.

Up here there was some daylight left ;
quite enough to reveal two photographs
beside the little bed  the father and
mother of Jeanne. He was in the uniform of
captain of infantry, a fine-looking man, and
she had a sweet, bright face, in which it was
easy to see the likeness to her daughter.

Jeanne stood looking at them, and she
sighed. She knew how they had loved one
another though they were poor, and she
had pictured a life of happiness with edmund
just like theirs.

What was poverty to her? She had
never been rich, except in happiness. But

now ! She walked up and down, up

and down. Once she knelt and prayed for
light and guidance ; but she could not see
clearly. As she walked up and down
again, she remembered a sentence she had
once read, " Let self be last always." She
paused, thrilled through with the fitness
the words seemed to have to her own case.
She remembered that her mother had said
she should live again in Madame Delimoy,
and then Jeanne stood still writhing, while
a short fierce struggle was tearing her
heart.

Hot tears came when it ended, and
thick, choking sobs ; but they were soon
over. The girl put out all her young firm

strength, she knew she must not hesitate,
for if she gave way ever so little
now the battle must begin again. She
only waited till her eyes were quite dry and
her breathing was calm, and then she went
downstairs.

I am ready, grandmother," she said.
I can write the letter for you now."

CHAPTER IX.

MADAME Decimo's ANSWER.

rpHE end of the week brought Edmund
-*- Depuis his answer.

It was very short, written by Jeanne ;
in the name of her grandmother.

Edmund grew white, as he saw the
few regularly written lines ; he read them
twice before he could take in their meaning.


Dear Sir,
Jeanne thanks you, and so do I, for
the honour you have done us, but she
has resolved not to leave me while I live.
Your servant,

Babe Delimoy.

He looked eagerly for some postscript,
same token that Jeanne bad felt the love
he had poured out so fondly in his letter
to her, there was not a word ; he stood
overwhelmed with mighty sorrow, and then
sobs burst from his aching heart.

Ah ! Jeanne, Thought you so generous,
so pitiful, even if you cannot give up
all for me, you need not scorn my
love !"

He stood still, utterly crushed ; he had no
one to whom he could go for comfort, and
he could not bear his own sorrow. He had
taken every thought to Jeanne for her
counsel, her sympathy, and now she had
cast him off.

She cannot love. She is cold, cold
as a stone, or she could not have written
that letter."

He shrank from seeing anyone, and shut
himself up with his sorrow.

So long as Monsieur Baconfoy saw his
young cousin walking with others, or even

smoking by himself beside the river, he
did not trouble himself about him.

He might come and see me now and
then," the inn-keeper said ; '' even if something
has gone wrong with him, but he is
young, and the young cannot be like the
old ; they must wait for wisdom as peaches
wait for sunshine."

Spite of his reputed cynicism, he had
been a kind friend to young Depuis ; yet
it did not occur to him that because he
was a rich relation he had a right to call
the young man ungrateful for staying away
from La Grue. But when three days went
by, and he missed Edmund from all his
usual haunts, the big, genial-looking man
became anxious. He loved his cousin
very dearly, and on this third evening
Monsieur Baconfoy sallied forth, and after
many friendly hand-shakes by the way (for
he knew everyone worth knowing in
Namur), he climbed the stairs wisconsin's
lodgings, and tapped at Edmund's door.

'* Come in !" was said in a hard, unbecoming
tone ; but Monsieur Baconfoy had
his own suspicions about Edmund's fit of
solitude, and he went in without comment.

I thought you might be ill, or in low
spirits"  as he seated himself he saw how
haggard the young fellow looked, and noted
his tangled hair and neglected appearance 
'' so I told Henri to bring round a couple
of bottles of champagne."

'' Thank you, Jules," Edmund stretched
out his hand; *you are very kind, but I
am not ill."

Bah ! my friend, you are out of sorts,
and that is the same thing. If a thing
cannot be remedied, Edmund, the best plan
is to forget it, not to shut yourself up with
it and mope. Have up the champagne, it
is a sovereign remedy."

Edmund made a wry face, and shrugged
his shoulders in a contradictory fashion.
He felt that he was being treated like a
sulky schoolboy, but he rang the bell and

bade the maid who answered it bring
glasses and the wine that had been sent
from the Hotel la Grue. Meantime Bacon-soy
had got on his legs again, and was
examining two oil-sketches that hung on
the otherwise bare white walls.

When did you do these ? I believe
you might make a painter, Edmund," he
said, " if you could afford it ; but a man
can't live by painting now-a-days, there is
not soup and salt in it."

The champagne came in and saved
Edmund the trouble of answering.

Baconfoy filled the glasses. " This is
better than women, be they widows or
maids," he said laughing, and, indeed, by
the time Edmund had emptied his third glass,
life seemed to look brighter ; he felt almost
ready to open his heart to his cousin.

Jules was, however, so full of talk on all
subjects that he had to listen instead, and
very soon he congratulated himself that
he had not yielded to temptation.

VOL. I. L

BESIDE THE Ever.

Monsieur Baconfoy's deep, dark eyes
glowed with pleasure as he saw the
change in Edmund's face.

"Come, ray boy" he said, 'you look
better already ; we have not finished though,
let us tap the other bottle."

Ah ! by-the-bye," he went on after a
pause wherein he had smacked his lips,
screwed up his eyes at the wine, and finally
utrinque with Edmund on the opening of
a fresh bottle. " This Madame Boulotte,
you know her well, of course ?"

"Yes, I know her  I lodged with hera
flush rose in Edmund's face. How ungrateful
he had been, she had been so kind
to him, and he had only written to her once
since he came to Namur.

This widow seems to be witty," Bacon-soy
had a very amused smile on his handsome
face, " she says  it appears, that I am ' a
fossil '  ma foi you must have painted me
curiously for her, eh, Edmund ?"

The young man laughed.

I told her you were a woman-hater 
that was all ; and you know you are, Jules 
but I remember she never cared to hear
me praise you ;" then a sudden flash of
intelligence came into his face, his eyes
grew liquid with hope. " But how did you
learn this," he said eagerly, " have you been
to Rimayy ? Have you seen her ?"

"No," Baconfoy hesitated an instant,
I have not seen her. I have seen her
brother Antoine Vidonze."

Has he come back then ? I went to
his house, but heard that he was still
away."

Baconfoy was puzzled by his excitement.
"Yes, he is away, but that is not an
uncommon thing for a photographer, is it ?
He came back the day after he went
away for some of his apparatus. I met
him in the street. He told me he was
going to take the portrait of a young lady
you have talked to me about  Mademoiselle
Jeanne La Have."

L 2

Edmund turned so white that Ba-convoy
stopped, but only for an instant,
he saw how it all was now, he had got
a clue to his young cousin's behaviour.

"Yes," he filled Edmund's glass,
Vidonze tells me he has always cared
for Mademoiselle Jeanne, and now that
he is able to keep a wife, he is about
to propose to her."

The veins on Edmund's temples stood
out in sudden prominence.

"Did he tell you this himself?"
"Yes, I said so."

Now ? since he came back from
Eimay ?"

Just so, he says he has spoken to
the grandmother."

"Curse him," said Edmund, he jumped
up so hastily that he knocked down his
glass, which fell on the floor and shivered
into fragments. There was a savage
scowl on his face, then he snatched up
his hat, and without any farewell he left

Monsieur Baconfoy to finish the rest of the
champagne.

Poor boy ! but it is a pity he has left
the wine," said his cousin with a cynical
smile.

CHAPTER X.

A MOTH.

TDMOjD walked on and on, not looking
- where lie was going, till at last he
suddenly stopped and found that he had
crossed the bridge and was some distance
from Namur.

He took off his hat, and the keen winter
wind cooled his burning forehead. Self-contempt
had made his sorrow yet more
bitter. He had believed in Jeanne and
in her love  and he had never had it.
He did not believe she loved Yidonze,
he had heard her laugh at him when he
had turned him into ridicule ; but she
had no love to give to anyone, or she

could not flirt with one man while she
refused another. How could he regret
what he never had had. How could he
still love Jeanne ?

I am a fool." He put his hand up to
his forehead, and turned back towards the
river, on the opposite side of which lay
the bright little town surmounted by its
citadel. ' I am grieving over a shadow 
the Jeanne I loved would not have had
anything to say to Antoine Vidonze. She
would have died first, nor could she have
written me that letter."

But he felt utterly desolate. He could
not make a confidant of his cousin. Jules
was too really kind to laugh at him
now, but Edmund well knew that Monsieur
Baconfoy's love of railing against women
could not long refrain from such a
fine illustration of his creed; he would
cite Jeanne's conduct as a fresh proof of
the heartlessness of her sex. Madame
Boulotte would have been a refuge  she

would have listened patiently to the story
of his wrongs, but she was at Eimay, and,
besides, Antoine Vidonze was her brother.
The thought of Madame Boulotte came asa
check to the fierce tide of his anger.
She had been so kind, always ready to
soothe and cheer him, and he had been
so ungrateful to her  and then bitterness
surged up again.

'' Even that was Joanne's fault," he
said, " I gave up every thought to her  I
was ungrateful to poor Madame Boulotte,
I have treated her shamefully. I took all
her kindness as a right, but it is all the
fault of my love for Jeanne."

This penitent mood softened him. The
sight of his own short-comings made him
sensitive to the remembrance of kindness.
He flushed as he remembered his cousin's
constant goodness, and he felt that he had
behaved to him like a spoiled child. By
the time he reached the bridge, he had made
up his mind to go to La Grue and tell his

trouble to Monsieur Baconfoy. But by the
time he reached the quay the dread of
ridicule held him back  Jules was not the
sort of comforter he wanted.

'* His cynicism would brace me up, no
doubt," he said '' but it might make me
angry, and I do not care to be angry with
Jules twice in one day."

By this time he was in the street where
Madame Ferage lived, and all at once
he remembered her existence. Edmund
walked on more slowly and he hung down
his head, why he had treated this sweet little
woman worse than he had treated either
his cousin or Madame Boulotte. She had
never laughed at him, nor had she reaped
the smallest advantage from his friendship,
and yet she had always received him kindly,
and had shown so much sympathy in his
plans and projects ; he had been going to
see her almost every day, and now he had
left her for nearly a fortnight unvisited.

He had never spoken to her of Jeanne,

Edmund had heard his cousin say that
a wise man never praises one woman to
another  but, if he spoke of Jeanne now,
it would not be to praise her, and he
flushed hotly at the thought  Madame
Ferage had no pettiness of this kind, she
was far above it, and he was not such a
coxcomb as to fancy that she would grudge
his preference for some one else. No, she
was unselfish, she wasafriend of a thousand;
and, with rhe natural leaning to exaggerate
merit in a friend one has undervalued or
neglected, the unhappy young fellow repeated
to himself that the sweet little
widow was a friend of a thousand and
just the confidant he needed.

Perhaps even now, he might not have
sought her if fate had not interfered in a
fortuitous way, for he shrank from speaking
of his trouble, he wanted the remedy without
the pain and shame of baring his wound
even to the sympathising eyes of sweet
Madame Ferage.

He was passing her door when it
opened and her maid, Salerne, appeared,
basket in hand, coming out to do some
shopping. She smiled and nodded when
she saw Monsieur Depuis, and he stopped
something seemed to force him back 
to inquire after Madame Ferage.

Madame is not well," the woman said.
*' She is very dull. Monsieur. Will not
Monsieur walk in to see her, it would cheer
her to see some one."

Edmund hesitated an instant, and then
seeing that Salerne was turning back into
the house, he followed her to the sitting-room
of Madame Ferage.

When the door opened he saw Pauline
sitting in a low chair, with her eyes strained
on the opening door. She was very pale ;
her eyelids looked heavy, and her whole
aspect was languid and spiritless. She
was in utter contrast to the fresh bright-eyed
brunette of a few weeks ago.

'' You have been ill, Madame," Edmund

said anxiously, as he took the hand she
offered. Such a cold little hand, and he
felt the fingers tremble.

Madame Ferage gave a feeble smile.

Not actually ill. Monsieur, but out of

sorts. I ," her voice quavered as if it

were full of tears, and she stopped.

*' I am so sorry, and I have not called
to ask for you ;" then he drew his chair
a little nearer, and said ruefully, " what
can you have thought of me, if indeed you
have noticed my absence ?"

Pauline's pale face was full of repressed
feeling, and Edmund thought there was
reproach in her dark eyes.

He thought that she resented his absence,
he did not understand that this timid, distrustful
creature could not think herself
attractive to anyone. If she sorrowed for
his absence it was for herself, because she
could not live without his visits.

'' It is good of you to come again," shepard
timidly. "Have you been ill too. Monsieur?"

Edmund got up and went to the window ;
as he looked out he saw his cousin on the
other side of the street, and he saw that
Jules recognised him. He bit his lip and
went back to Madame Ferage.

I have been in some trouble, and I
think care is as bad as sickness," he said,
indifferently.

He did not look at her, but he felt that
her eyes were fixed on his face.

*' I think it is worse," she said. Then
with an effort, '' I wish. Monsieur, I were
older and wiser, then I might be able to
help you in your trouble ; can I, do you
think?" she looked sweetly at him.

She thought he had perhaps some money
difficulties ; she could help him so easily,
and yet it seemed impossible to approach
such a subject with Monsieur Depuis.

You have helped me already, by
your kind words," he looked at her,
smiling. '' You don't know what it is
when one is desolate to find such ready

sympathy where one has no claim on it."

No claim 1" Pauline's eyes glowed, and
the colour came up in her cheeks ; '' pardon,
Monsieur, you have every claim on
my friendship, you have been so kind."

Edmund looked at her gratefully, he felt
strongly moved.

*' Now you overwhelm me, Madame ; all
this goodness after my neglect feels like
coals of fire. I wish 1 had come to you
with my trouble at first." '

Her eyes grew brighter and her cheeks
rosier. Poor little Pauline had never felt
so happy. Was it real or a dream ? she
asked herself. Was she really sitting in
the very chair in which she had felt so
miserable an hour ago, listening to these
sweet words from the man she loved ?

'' You will come again then ?" she said
joyously. She felt like a child in a bright
flower-filled meadow ; life lay before
her full of joy and beauty, and it washers
; she need no longer stand outside

resigned to see the happiness of others.

Edmund bent his head with a sort of
reverence. " I will come again and again
if you will let me, Madame; nowhere
else can I be so happy."

Suddenly Pauline's hands covered her
eyes and he saw bright tears running
through her fingers. By a great effort she
kept in her sobs, only a little shuddering
shook her shoulders, and her bosom
heaved. Next moment she was wiping
her tears away, and she tried to smile,
though her lips quivered still.

 Forgive me, I am weak from my illness,"
she said, and she flushed with shame.
"I will not be such a baby again."

Edmund was greatly troubled ; her tears
seemed to him so inexplicable, unless
indeed she was still ill.

Did I vex you ?" he said, anxiously.

A sob burst from Pauline; but she waited
to steady her voice, before she answered,

"You were only too kind;" but she did not

trust herself to look at Edmund. " I think
when one is weak one bears coldness best*'

You are an angel of goodness," he
said earnestly, '' and in future I will try to
deserve your kindness."

There was a pause. He longed to tell her
about Jeanne ; but it seemed selfish to use
this opportunity only to tax her sympathy,
when she evidently was still suffering,
so instead, he tried to amuse and cheer her.
He told her some of the town events, and
about the eccentricities of some of the workmen
engaged on the fresh line of railway,
and soon Pauline was laughing like a girl ;
all sadness had left her face.

I may come again tomorrow," and he
held her hand as he said good-bye.

Yes, please, come whenever you can,"
said Madame Ferage, gaily; "that is, I mean
whenever you can spare time to do so.
See how much good you have done me."
She gave him a little shy glance full of
gratitude.

He went away thinking how sweet and
humble this woman was. She possessed so
much on which other women misht have
valued themselves; but she was quite
emptied of self  intent on seeking the comfort
or happiness of others. Yes, Madame
Ferage was excellent, as good as possible,
and yet Edmund felt that the relief he had
found in her society was only temporary ;
she faded out of his thoughts before he
had reached his lodgings, and the gnawing
pain of baffled hope, the cold sickness of
his disappointment, came back.

He longed more than ever to pour out
the story of his sorrow, and to be comforted,
and yet the only woman he had
ever seen in whom he could trust, who
inspired him with that sort of reverence
which he felt almost without knowing, was
she who had dealt him this wound, who
had changed his joy into such bitterness.

Sadly and sorrowfully he mounted the
stairs ; and went into his room ; he

VOL. I. M

cleared away the traces of his cousin's
visit, and then he went to the desk
where he kept his papers. He had not
much to remind him of his lost love.
There had been from the first a happy
joyousness in his intercourse with Jeanne,
which had eliminated from it any germ of
distrust, and it may be that what is called
the sentiment of affection  the sentiment
that treasures tokens of a beloved presence
has it origin in that doubt which must be
inseparable from the truest love till marriage
has sealed its perfection.

Edmund could only find a medal, which
one day half in sport he had stolen from
Jeanne, and a bunch of withered crocus
flowers which she had gathered for him
not long before his visit to Namur. Yes,
here was something else carefully wrapped
up in tissue paper, and put away in a corner
a pincushion, made by her in blue and
silver, Edmund's favourite colours. He tore
open the wrappings indignantly, and flung

the pretty delicate token into a little heap of
dust which had accumulated behind his
stove ; he crushed the flowers, which turned
to powder in his angry grasp, and sent
them with the medal to join the pincushion.
Then he stood pale and stern-looking, and
wholly dissatisfied with himself.

If he had thought by flinging away these
the only tokens of Jeanne's outside presence
to get rid of his sorrow, he had made a great
mistake. Her image felt like lead in his
heart, and all his faculties seemed chained
to the depressing influence. He writhed
under the suffering it was beyond his
power to bear. He thought that, if he
went on shut up alone with it, he might
do some desperate action. He resolved to
go back to his work next day. As for
to-night  he paused and looked round
him, then he took up his hat  he would
go to the cafe ; he should be sure to find
some acquaintance there, and they could
finish the evening at the theatre.

M 2

CHAPTER XI.

SORROW.

nne cottage beside the Meuse had two
-- rooms on the ground-floor ; one into
which the door opened, the living room,
and leading from it, by a little door opposite
the entrance of the cow-stable, was Madame
Delimoy's bed-chamber.

Behind the living room was a little shed
for the goats, and beside this a rough flight
of wooden steps, sheltered by the projecting
eaves of thatch above, led to
the small room in the gable. This
was Jeanne's kingdom, and it was
pretty to see how her orderly ways and
simple taste had transformed the bare whitewashed

sleeping-place into a snug little
room. Some old red and yellow chintz,
once her mother's, made hangings for her
little bed ; between the portraits 'of her
father and her mother, on the dark walls,
she had placed a photograph of Namur which
Edmund had one day given her. Above
these was a large cross made of rushes and
of dried grass, and near the door a quaint
old brass benitier with a crucifix.

There was no armoire, a large walnut
wood chest held Jeanne's small wardrobe,
and two little tables and a couple of chairs
made all her furniture; but one of the tables
held washing things, and Jeanne's little
mirror was fixed against the wall above it ;
the other table, placed in the low window,
held part of her little store of books. The
rest were on a shelf above the table.
When first she had come to the cottage her
grandmother proposed to share her own
room with Jeanne ; but the ghl refused,
thinking would disturb Madame Delimoy's

solitary habits. She felt deeply thankful
now to have a refuge where she could sob
out her sorrow undisturbed, for Jeanne
had not Edmund's longing for sympathy.
To no human being could she have poured
out the torrent which, when she reached
her little nest on this sad night, burst
from its long repression.

All through this day keen anxiety to
learn the contents of Edmund's letter had
kept away the haunting disquiet which
Madame Boulotte's news had created, and
now to have the proof that this had been
mere gossip ; Edmund's love was still
hers, and yet she had been compelled
to cast it from her.

She had yielded to her grandmother's
will; but her nature rose in unconquerable
revolt ; the deep roots of her love
made themselves felt as she thrilled from
head to foot with anguish. She would not
give up Edmund's love ; she would write
to him and tell him this. She would not

break her promise to her grandmother, but
if he would wait for her she would be true
to him. This resolution was the outcome
of some hours of sadness, long weary
hours, after she lay down to rest in the
passive fashion in which we fulfil ordinary
functions from mere force of habit.
Jeanne's eyes had watched the darkness,
and had seen through her uncurtained
window, as she lay facing it, the bright
cold stars look in upon her as they moved
slowly across the valley. Should she lie
here sorrowfully every night till she got
stifi'and old like her grandmother, with no
feeling for the suffering of others.

It was almost the first harsh thought
that had come to Jeanne, and she turned
from it penitently. She had prayed fervently
before she lay down, and it seemed
terrible to her that such an evil thought
should come to her in the darkness. She
had resolved when she rose from her knees
to put her grandmother out of the question,

to tell herself that it was God's will
that she and Edmund should be parted;
but then tLe fierce struggle had come and
resignation fled again.

Now, as this new idea dawned, she
softened. She wondered whether she
might write to Edmund, and tell him
she loved him. She would go next day to
her old friend Monsieur le Cure, he would
give her safe counsel. And lulled by the
soothing that a decided purpose always
brings to trouble, Jeanne fell heavily
asleep.

She awakened suddenly. Dawn was
struggling into her room, though the
darkness still filled the corners, and seemed
loth to depart. Jeanne knew that it was
still very early, and yet some strange
feeling upbraided her for lying in bed. A
dim sense of misfortune pressed on her
with clammy weight, and then she smiled
sadly as she raised herself on her elbow
from the cloud of fair hair spread over

her pillow. It was the memory of her
great trouble which had come back.

But she felt too restless to lie any longer,
so she rose and went to the window, and
looked out, her fair hair falling like a cloak
below her waist.

How still and lovely the river was in
the soft haze of morning light, while the
hills on the further side were like phantoms
in their indistinct, shadowy colour.

Jeanne dressed hastily and went downstairs.
She looked into the cow-stable ;
Felix was sound asleep in the little bed
railed off from Merette's sleeping-place;
so Jeanne went back into the living-room
and lit the fire herself; then she swept the
floor, and hung the kettle on the hook
in the chimney, so as to have her grandmother's
coffee ready. She always took
this to Madame Delimoy before she rose,
as soon as Felix had milked Merette and
taken her out to pasture; but it seemed
too early for this ; there was no use in

disturbing grandmother before her usual
hour, and poor little Felix too should have
his sleep out.

Jeanne ground her coffee and set it onto
boil; then her thoughts took up the
resolution of last night. In the daylight,
or rather in this grey forerunner of day, her
project seemed too bold, and a warm blush
bloomed on her cheeks, but soon this was
checked. If she did not tell Edmund she
loved him, how could he ever know it?
and might he not in simple despair go and
marry some one else, and so divide himself
for ever from Jeanne? But this was too
terrible; the idea of Edmund married to
some one else seemed to crush life out of
Jeanne. Even if she were parted from
him now, she could love him and think of
him without sin  but if he were to have a
wife !

Jeanne clasped both hands over her eyes,
to tryto stout this maddening vision. She
prayed as she stood thus struggling witt

herself, for it seemed to her she was growing
wicked.

I cannot help it," she said at last,
faintly, while she drew her hands from her
face, and let them fall by her side ; " I
must always love him, come what may.
I belong to him ; he fills my heart."

There were footsteps outside, and then
she heard the postman's rapid steps as he
went on along the road behind the cottage ;
he had taken the letter she had written at
her grandmother's dictation, from under
the eaves of the shed where she had put
it last night.

Jeanne started out of her reverie, a cold
dread passed over her  it was decided. She
sighed heavily ; and now she heard Felix
awake talking to Merette. She had left the
door into the cow-stable half-open, and soon
the boy came in with a great brass jug of
milk. Jeanne put some into the pot to boil
with her coffee, and then having poured out
a steaming cupful, and cutting a slice of

dark-looking bread, she placed them on a
tray, and opened the door leading into her
grandmother's bedroom.

Madame Delimoy was generally awake
when Jeanne came in, but this morning
she did not answer the girl's " Good
morning." Jeanne set down the tray on
an armoire beside the door, and then she
went up to the bed placed beside the wall
facing the window. Her grandmother's
eyes were wide open, but Jeanne recognised
with terror the speechless gaze and
the stern fixedness of the long straight
face. This was how she had looked once
before, and Jeanne remembered how ill she
had been afterwards, and that the doctor
had said it was a fit.

Bending hurriedly over the rigid form,
she saw that the further side of the face,
the right side, was distorted. She touched
it, and then, when she felt how chill it
was, a great horror seized on the girl.
Could it be that her grandmother was

dead ? For an instant she quivered from
head to foot, and then she hurried back
and called Felix.

"Felix," she said, "you must go as fast
as you can to E-imay, and fetch the
doctor."

Then, going back to the bed, she
tried all the simple means she knew to
restore animation. In vain ; and yet
Jeanne felt that life still angered, for the
eyes had consciousness, and seemed to
watch all her efforts with a kind of mockery.

At last she sat down beside the bed
exhausted. She had tried to moisten the
pale lips, but no answering movement had
come. Now they seemed slightly to quiver.
Jeanne rose swiftly and noiselessly, and
with a feather dipped in coffee touched
the death-like mouth. This time there
was plainly an effort to swallow, and the
girl persevered till once more the lips
stiffened, and the face looked as still as
that of a corpse.

Jeanne sat beside the bed, stupefied
with grief and fear ; she could not think, or
even pray; she felt so speechless that
at last she roused herself by a kind of
force.

Oh, grandmother," she cried in a
strange hoarse voice that seemed not to
belong to her, " are you gone from me
just when I had been thinking harshly of
you r Can I never atone ?"

Did she hear ? The eyes had now a fuller
consciousness, Jeanne thought, in their
dumb strained gaze.

Morning had come cheerfully, bringing
a flood of sunshine into the little room.
Jeanne left her post more than once to
heap wood on the fire in the next room,
and then she went out at the back of the
cottage and looked along the road that led
to Rimayy.

*' Surely Felix is very long," she said to
herself, and then a look across the valley at
the sun showed her that she was impatient.

She waited a longer interval, but now
as she looked out again it seemed to her
he must really be in sight. As she stepped
out so as to see beyond the shed, some one
was coming along the road from Riniay.
He was too far off to distinguish, but
Jeanne saw that he was much too tall for
Felix, too tall for the doctor even. In a
few minutes she saw that it was Antoine
Vidonze.

Jeanne forgot her old dislike ; she was
so heartily thankful that her lonely watch
was ended. Yidonze saw her, and he
called out before he reached the cottage 
"It is all right. Mademoiselle Jeanne;
the doctor will be here as soon as he
can."

Then, as he came up to the pale anxious
girl, he went on hurriedly,

I met Felix on his way to Rimayy, so
I hastened on with the message to save
delay, and the doctor gave me this for
you," he put a small phial into her

hand. '' You are to get her to take it if
possible before he comes."

Jeanne shook her head.

I will try," she said, " and I thank
you heartily for the good deed you have
done. Will you come in and rest yourself.
Monsieur ?"

For Monsieur Vidonze had pulled out
his yellow handkerchief and stood wiping
his forehead, while his breath came in
gasps and his bronzed face had grown a
deep red.

He followed Jeanne into the cottage.*

'' Is it likely I should have run so far just
to walk back again," he muttered ; and while
Jeanne went back to her grandmother, he
placed himself in Madame Delimoy's easy
chair, and helped himself to some coffee
from the pot that stood on the hearth.

CHAPTER Nil

A Grist.

A NTOINE YIDONZE had the special
talent one usually finds in a nature
lacking true nobility. He could subdue
all show of feeling to serve the one purpose
he had determined to execute  even
when this repression taxed his utmost
strength of will. Day after day found him
at the cottage, and though more than once
Jeanne assured him that he could be of no
farther use, and that she disliked taking up
so much of his time, he had always some
smiling reason to give for his presence,
and, indeed, Jeanne so seldom left the sickroom
that she saw little of him.

VOL. I. N

A fortnight had gone by since that
terrible shock had come to Jeanne in her
grandmother's bed-room, and the doctor
told her that it could now only be a
question of how long life would linger in
the still, powerless form of Madame Delimoy,
it might be only days, it might be
weeks. At times she seemed conscious, but
the power of speech had left her for ever.

Sometimes it seemed to Jeanne, as she
sat looking at the rigid face, that there
was an intense yearning in the eyes, that
the soul strove so hard to find a voice,
that some miracle would be worked, and
that her grandmother must burst through
the living death which held her. At first the
girl had insisted on nursing her entirely,
but the Cure, who came to see Madame
Delimoy, would not permit this to go on,
and for the last week the mother of Felix,
a dull, quiet woman called Rose, had
been installed in the cottage as Jeanne's
assistant.

One morning, when daylight came fully
into the room, Jeanne fancied she saw a
change on the rigid face. The doctor did
not now come every day. He had told
Jeanne to send for him in case of need, and
she thought the time for this had come.

She went quickly into the outer room.

'where is Felix?" she said, " I must
send him to Rimayy."

He went to Rimayy an hour ago, with
Monsieur Yidonze."

Bright colour flew into Jeanne's face.

How could you let Felix go ?" she said
gravely.

'' Monsieur Yidonze said he was to go ;"
the woman looked at Jeanne with surprise.


"Monsieur Yidonze has no authority
over Felix. Well, I cannot help it ; as you
have let the boy go without my leave, you
must walk to Rimayy yourself, Rose, and
fetch the doctor. There is a change in my
grandmother."

N 2

The dull square woman opened her
mouth and eyes in dismay.

I could never get to Rimayy, Mademoiselle,
I have not in all my life walked
so far. I am sorry you are angry, but
Monsieur has told me, and Felix too, that
lie is master here; so the poor child
thought he was doing right to obey
him."

Master here !" Jeanne gave a little
stamp of indignation, '' there will never bea
master here," she said scornfully, " and
Madame Delimoy is mistress while she
lives. When Monsieur Yidonze comes
back let me know, Rose, I must speak to
him."

She spoke so haughtily that the woman
looked at her in surprise, but, even before
Jeanne reached the bedside again, her
mood had changed.

"May God forgive me," she said, "how
can I give way to anger when she, perhaps,
is passing away ?"

There was nothing to be done but
to wait for the boy's return, and Jeanne
sat beside the bed with the sickening
feeling that perhaps the doctor's presence
might be of vital importance, and yet she
dared not leave her grandmother to seek
him.

It seemed as if hours had passed when
the woman put her head into the room.

There are visitors for you, Mademoiselle,"
she said, " a gentleman and lady.
I told them you were busy, but they say
you expect them."

Jeanne looked perplexed, but she signed
to Rose to take her place beside the bed
while she went into the outer room ; she
had forgotten her chance-meeting the day
before her grandmother's seizure, and the
sight of two friendly-faced strangers standing
in the open doorway took her by surprise.

A thin, grey-haired man, with a timid
countenance, stood beside a tall lady,
whose face literally beamed at the sight

of Jeanne  it was a beautiful old face,
the dark eyes full of fire  though just
now they were so sweet ; the well set head
and delicate features suited the refined
voice and manner of the speaker, for she
began to speak directly she saw Jeanne.
'* I fear we come at a sad time, my
dear child, but I wished to keep my
word, and we had not heard of your
trouble till your servant told us. Is your
grandmother so very ill ?"

*' She is very ill," Jeanne said sadly.

*' Then you must not leave her."

The lady spoke with a quiet decision

which drew the girl's heart out to her;

it seemed as if she had found her mother

again. '* Remember," the lady took

Jeanne's hand and looked at her earnestly,

'' we are at Eimay at the Singe door, and

we will leave our address there when we

go away. If there is anything we can do,

you will let us know  will you not ?"

Are you going there now ?" said

Jeanne, simply, and the lady nodded.
'will you send me the doctor," said
Jeanne ; " it has done me good to see you,
Madame."

The lady bent forward and kissed her on
both cheeks.

I shall come again, my child ; you have
not seen the last of me. Au revoir, I shall
send the doctor at once."

Her smile was full of sunshine.

Jeanne turned from the door, cheered and
comforted. It seemed as if she had inhaled
a sea-breeze. That kind, firm face
had been a tonic to her sickening anxiety.
She found no change in her patient when
she again took her place by the bedside.

Jeanne sat musing over her visitor. This
lady seemed to the girl very superior to anyone
with whom she had come in contact,
and yet she did not feel afraid of her.

She looks as if she had no hidden
shoals of temper one need beware of, no
concealments," said the girl, with a sigh.

'' She would blame fearlessly if she saw
need for it, but she would always be just."
More than once during the long dark
nights, while she sat watching her grandmother,
Jeanne's heart had ached sorely.
It seemed to her that it had been cruelly
unjust to make her write that letter to
Edmund, and that she had been wrong todo
it. She might have left him free, but
she might have owned her love for him.
She might have said : " I cannot leave my
grandmother, but I love you, Edmund.
I will always love you." If she felt
such dear delight in knowing that he
loved her, would it not have given
him some pleasure to know that his love
was returned ? She had been foolish and
wrong even to give up her own will so
entirely, she ought to have thought more of
Edmund. And then a glance at the still
figure on the bed made the girl feel full of
self-reproach. How could she blame the
last parent she had left ? to whom perhaps

she should never speak again. Nor could
she keep to her resolution of writing to
Edmund. Sometimes, when hope revived,
she had resolved that when Madame Delimoy
recovered she would ask her to write
to Edmund, and explain the reason of her
refusal.

Grandmother will get well, and she will
tell Edmund I love him and we shall
be happy again," she had said softly to herself,
for indeed it seemed to Jeanne that
there was no need to hurry. She and
Edmund could be so happy to wait if they
saw one another sometimes.

To-day she banished these anticipations,
and even when she thought of her visitor
she checked her admiration ; it seemed as if
indirectly she were blaming her dying
grandmother.

At length she heard a stir in the room
outside, and voices. Rose put in her head
again, and said Monsieur Vidonze had come
back.

You can stay here then. Rose," the girl
spoke decidedly. " Stay here while Igoin."

She walked into the outer room ; her
head even more erect than usual. This
interference must be put an end to. She had
determined to tell Monsieur Vidonze she
did not need bis services.

He was standing before the hearth warming
his hands and stirring up a blaze from
the logs which had been burning dully. He
looked very tall and bulky as he stood before
thelow projecting mantelshelf, bordered by a
narrow curtain of blue check ; the firelight
glowed on his red beard and bronzed face.
Some people might have called him a fine,
soldierly-looking man, but Jeanne thought
he only looked coarse and insolent.

'' Monsieur Vidonze "  he had begun to
speak  but she went on without listening,
I thank youTor your interest in my grandmother,
and for what you have done ; but
I must ask you to go away. I prefer to
be left alone."

He bowed, and gave her a long smiling
look ; a look that made Jeanne timid for
an instant. Next moment her courage
came back.

I cannot leave you alone," he said. " I
have a, right to protect you, Jeanne."

She flushed scarlet  he had never called
her Jeanne till now.

You have no right. Monsieur ; and I
ask you to go away and leave me in peace
where is Felix ?"

He will be here soon," Vidonze said
coolly. " I left him to bring some things I
wanted. I knew that my presence here
would be necessary tomorrow;" then, seeing
that Jeanne looked really displeased, he
added : '' My dear child, there is no use in
deceiving yourself, the doctor said to me
she "  he jerked his head towards the inner
room  " would last about a fortnight, and
the fortnight ended this morning. You
will soon need m} services."

Jeanne's angry flush had faded. She

knew that Vidonze was right, and yet she
shrank from the reality of death.

"It may be so," she said quietly; "but
that is another reason why you should
go away. Your presence here troubles me,
and I cannot bear to be disputing with you
while she lies dying."

He took her hand and held it tightly
grasped.

Listen quietly for a few moments," he
said, "and I will let you go. I know
you are good and dutiful, Jeanne, and
I have something important to tell you.
The day before she was taken ill, your
grandmother promised you to me, and she
also promised to come and live with us at
Namur. Now you know what I mean when
I say I have a right to protect you, dear
child."

Jeanne twitched her fingers away. She
felt a sudden chill, and she stood silent.
Then she said  " I cannot help it, Monsieur,
I made no promise, and I do not

acknowledge your right over me ; I wish
you to leave the cottage."

Again Yidonze smiled.

Child, do you forget that you are
under age, and a promise once made by
your parent must bind you even after her
death ?'*

Jeanne shuddered, in her ignorance she
did not know what to think, she only
knew that she could not marry without
her grandmother's consent.

She may live, and if she does she will
retract her promise, she will not give me
to you."

Jeanne spoke doggedly, for Yidonze's
words only strengthened the fear that
pressed on her. She was in a sore strait,
her grandmother was leaving her  the last
living relative she had to cling to ; henceforth
she had no one on whom she had a
claim for help and guidance. But she
must show this insolent man that she was

able to protect and guide herself, she did
not want his guidance.

He had stood looking at her after her
last words. He thought she was very attractive
in this defiant mood, her resistance
gave a zest to his wooing. He walked
across and seated himself in Madame Delimoy's
arm-chair in a leisurely manner.

We had better understand one another,
dear child," he said, 'you refuse me because
you have a liking for young Depuis ;
he would not suit you, Jeanne, if you
married him, you would soon despise him,
he will never make his way in the world, he
is too easy-going and extravagant. No, my
sweet friend, Depuis will never be able to
keep a wife."

Jeanne had started at first and bent
her head  she now stood erect growing
paler every instant.

"Monsieur," she said haughtily, ' I did
not come here to talk to you, I came to
ask you to leave the house, and I wait for

you to do so ; all this while you are keeping
me from my grandmother."

'* You are talking nonsense, dear child;
your grandmother is already dead to your
presence or absence, and you can listen to
a few more words ; when they are said, I
will depart."

She gave a sigh of relief and waited.

I was going to tell you some news
which you will hear the first time you goto
Rimayy. Depuis is about to marry
Madame Ferage  she is young and pretty,
and she is rich, so that the lucky fellow
will be able to indulge his humours and
tastes without fear of retarding his progress
in life  truly, he was born with a
silver spoon in his mouth."

Jeanne took no notice, she stood waiting
for him to so.

Vidonze kept his large, burning eyes on
her face, trying to read the effect of his
words  he thought she was incredulous.

'' You do not believe me," he said, " but

when you see my sister you will have the
proof that I have spoken truly ; next
time she goes to Namur, she will see
Depuis himself."

He waited, she did not speak, but he
saw that her lips were closely pressed
together, though she kept her feelings
from showing themselves. Vidonze got up
and stretched himself with lazy assurance.

'' Au revoir, dear child," he said "you
shall not be hurried or pressed in any way,
but you have too much good sense and
feeling to oppose your grandmother's last
wishes, and you cannot at your age live
without a protector."

Jeanne clenched her hands as they
hung down beside her. She so longed to
speak, but she knew that this would only
give Vidonze an excuse for staying, and
she was determined he should go.

He walked slowly across the room. At
the door, however, he turned round
again.

'* After all," he said, "you will want
rae by and bye. You cannot do without
me, Jeanne."

The girl turned round on him, her
bosom heaved, her eyes sparkled with
anger, but before she could speak the
door opened and the doctor came in.

At once he noted the agitation in
Jeanne's face, and his quick observant
eyes travelled on to Yidonze.

'has anything happened," he said
gravely, " is she dead ?"

Jeanne shrank as if from a blow ; it was
terrible to think that she could be feeling
angry with anyone when death might come
any minute into the cottage, but still she
could not bear to leave Monsieur Vidonze
master of the field.

She led the way to her grandmother's
room, the little doctor admiring her shapely
figure as he went with her ; but before she
opened the door, Jeanne said :

VOL. I.

Good-bye, Monsieur Yidonze, " you can
do nothing for me now."

The doctor went to the bedside, but his
examination was short. He came up to
Jeanne, who stood by the window.

She is going now," he said '' and
you can do nothing for her."

Jeanne turned from him to the woman,
who had risen as they came in, and who
now stood beside the bed.

"Rose," she said, "go quickly and tell
Monsieur le Cure how it is with my
grandmother."

CHAPTER XIII.

CONSEQUENCES.

sphere are plenty of sentences and
-*- maxims used both by silly and wise
persons; used so commonly that often their
deepest meanings are hardly perceived.
Like the stones on a well-kept road, these
have sunk out of sight by usage. Now and
then some one trite axiom fits our own
case, and then either we see the meaning
it holds hidden, or else we create a
special application therefrom. The truth,
however trite, that life is a circle, and that
we are but links of the chain of which
this circle is made, has never been more fully
illustrated than by the thrill of trouble



that spread from the cottage beside the
Meuse to the pretty little house of the
widow, and to that sad young bachelor,
Edmund Depuis.

It must be said, however, that Edmund's
sadness had been gradually diminishing.
He went often now to see Madame Ferage,
and her sweetness and gentle sympathy
always sent him away soothed and refreshed.
Soon  very soon, he thought
he should put full confidence in this
kind, devoted friend, and tell her of
Jeanne's hard-heartiness. Of late he
had grown to think he was unjust in
calling Jeanne faithless ; he felt sure she
had never really loved him, or she could not
so soon have changed. The longer he reflected
on the firm, steadfast nature which
had so charmed him, and which he so truly
felt to be the necessary completion of his
own, the more sure he became that only
the force of his love had acted on Jeanne ;
she had only felt for him, all through, the

sisterly regard she had shown, for how-slight
a response had she made to his confession
of love ! Even if he had married
her he would have found nothing deeper
beneath this pleasant, calm surface. Yes,
she was cold, yet when his thoughts
reached this point he always flung away
desperately from the attempt at self-consolation.


He knew that nothing could have made
him yield up Jeanne if she only would
have been his. He did not believe that she
loved Vidonze, or would accept him; it
seemed to him far more likely, cold, and
good, and dutiful as she was, that she had
been passive in the hands of her grandmother.
She would never love anyone.

Meantime his visits only served to deepen
the trouble of the young widow.

On that afternoon when Edmund first reappeared
after his long desertion, hope had
suddenly come to life in the poor heart that
had known so little of it, or of any joy.

Pauline hardly dared to say to herself
that Monsieur Depuis loved her ; but still
she hoped that he cared for her enough for
love to come by and bye. He came again,
but there was no change in his manner ; no
reflection of the intense joy she felt at the
sight of him ; no sign even of repressed
feeling, he was kind and quite at
ease. Pauline grew sadder and sadder
in the intervals between his visits. To
him she strove to be as gay and bright
as possible ; for worlds this poor little hungering
heart would not have betrayed its
secret, lest the discovery should alarm her
friend and so alienate him; but when
Edmund came in smiling and looked
straight into her eyes, with friendly assurance,
her heart ached sorely under her
bright return to his greeting. Something
seemed to warn her that these frequent
visits, this seemingly devoted friendship,
had no hidden meaning, and would never
change in character.

On the morning after bis fourth visit,
while she sat alone thinking this all over
in the sickening certainty that it would have
been better for her if she had kept to her
dull untroubled life, and never seen 
Depuis, a visitor was announced,
and in carne Madame Henroteaux, the old
lady at whose house she had first seen

ml

Monsieur Dapuis.

Madame Henroteaux looked grave ; her
flat, pink face was stiff with formality, and
her small, sunken eyes had a restless expression.


Usually she was full of talk, but to-day
she answered Pauline's friendly inquiries
after the health of her seven daughters
almost in monosyllables.

After more than one pause, during which
the visitor looked round the pretty room as
if she were seeking for something to find
fault with, Madame Ferage said gently : 

Is there anything the matter, my dear
friend ?"

Madame Henroteaux's head was jerked
back, and she gave a kind of hostile snort,
as if she would declare she was challenged
to the attack.

I cannot tell you, my dear child, until
I know the real state of matters ; it may be
right ; but it may be lamentably wrong 
lamentably wrong," she said, with an exasperating
volubility.

I do not understand." Pauline felt
frightened by her visitor's unusual manner.

Madame Henroteaux nodded with excited
importance.

I will explain." She lowered her voice
and looked mysterious, while Pauline felt
divided between alarm and a strong inclination
to laugh at this pompous preamble.

May I ask if you are about to marry
Monsieur Depuis, Madame Ferage?"

Pauline grew rosy with blushes.

No," she said in a timid voice.

Madame Henroteax drew her chair a little
away, and shook her head.

1 was afraid of this," she said, sadly ;
"you are young, my dear child, and I
am aware that you are inexperienced ;
but you are old enough to know better."

Pauline looked utterly surprised.

Really, Madame," she said, quickly,
'' I must ask you to explain yourself."
This was beyond her patience.

Madame Henroteaux waved her hand ;
she had got her speech by heart, for she
had felt sure she should have to deliver it,
and she wished to do this without interruption.


I repeat that you ought to know better
any woman ought to know that so very
great an intimacy cannot be carried on
with a gentleman without giving cause for
scandal; unless, indeed, there is a cause
for it beyond mere friendship."

Madame Heuroteaux had intended edmund
Depuis to marry the eldest of her
seven daughters as soon as he was rich

enough, and her outraged propriety had
consequently a double edge.

Pauline looked frightened and unhappy.

'' What can I do, Madame ?" she said.
I like him ; how can I tell him I do not
care for his visits ?"

The visitor gave a little repressive
cough, and sat up stiffly.

"I scarcely see, Madame, what would
become of womankind, or society in general,
if every woman is to do exactly what
she likes. Besides, in allowing Monsieur
Depuis privileges which you must permit
me to say a more correct thinking
woman would not allow, you lower his
opinion of the whole sex ; you must
excuse me if I speak plainly," Pauline had
flushed a deep red at her words, " but it
is the part of a true friend to warn you of
the risk you run."

You receive Monsieur Depuis' visits,
Madame, and you are a widow," Pauline



flashed out at last in the agony of her
mortification.

''I," with much emphasis, Madame
Henroteaux smiled complacently; she
was middle-aged, ugly and bony, and
she had seven daughters, but she felt
that a second marriage was not impossible,
that is, if she could be brought
to consent to it. " My dear friend, there
is a great difference between us. No one
ever saw me give a man the slightest
encouragement at any period of my life."

'' I do not know what you mean," said
poor Pauline, hotly. '' Do you mean to
say that I ought only to receive the visits
of women ?"

Madame Henroteaux shook her head.

'' You are not so ready-witted as usual,
my dear friend," there was a tinge of contempt
in her tone. " I said nothing about
the sex of your visitors. Monsieur Depuis
or Monsieur any-oue-else may visit you in
moderation ; but a young woman in your

unprotected position  for remember, children
are a shield against the world's
calumny  a young woman in your position
should treat all her friends aUke, and
should have no greater intimacy with one
than another."

Pauline panted with vexation.

That is absurd, Madame. How can I
help myself? I like to see Monsieur
Depuis when he calls. I cannot tell him
what is not true."

** If you have not sufficient dignity
to shield your own reputation," Madame
Henroteaux rose, and her stiff skirts
shook with suppressed irritation, '' there
is nothing more to be said, except
that it is kindness to warn you that this
devoted friend has already distinguished
himself by an attachment to a young girl
not far from Givett, and also by decided
attentions to the widow with whom he
lodged before he came to Namur. Have a
care both of your heart and of your

reputation, my dear friend." She stopped,
for Pauline had turned a deathly white.
'* I fear Monsieur Depuis is not a marrying
man," she went on, '' and if you are
wise you will close your door against such
a confirmed flirt. Surely you will not
compromise yourself and offend all your
friends." Then she kissed poor stricken
Pauline on both her white cheeks, bade her
au revoir, and departed.

Pauline sat still in passive misery, but
as soon as her visitor went away she
had a hearty fit of crying. She did
not know what to do. If she gave up
Edmund Depuis' visits, she gave up all
the joy of her life. She must go back to
the dull, colourless existence she had led
before she knew him ; and if she took no
notice of this warning and went on receiving
him, she should perhaps lose all
her friends, and possibly her good name
besides.

It was true that these friends were

scarcely more than acquaintances, and
that her chief intercourse with them
related to charity, or dress, or housekeeping,
with sometimes a discussion on
public matters concerning the city of
Namur ; but Pauline trembled at the
thought of being once more isolated, with
no one but her maid to speak to; and
the position hinted at by her friend would
be worse than mere isolation. The poor
shrinking little creature pictured to herself
the changed looks of her acquaintances;
they might be capable of passing her by,
if they met her in the street, under the
eyes of everyone. Pauline shivered and
hid her face in her hands. She thought she
could not bear to be slighted, and then her
love stung her sharply with self-reproach. If
she had Edmund Depuis' friendship, what
need could she have of any other society's
Was he not everything to her ? Did not
every thought centre round him ? Would
she not give up all that she most

valued so long as she felt sure of his love ?
Ah ! there was the doubt  The strongest
blow which her zealous visitor had dealt
towards the breaking of Pauline's peace
was this doubt of Edmund Depuis' love for
her.

But then what Madame Henroteaux had
said might be mere gossip. PauHne
could not believe that he would wilfully
trifle with a woman's love; and yet,
had he not stolen her heart from her
without giving in exchange any proof of
his own love?

She sat crying and thinking  thinking
over the warning she had received, and
thinking also of her future behaviour towards
Edmund ; perhaps his reticence had
been her own fault. She was wealthy,
and he very likely  for she knew nothing
but what he told her about himself  was
poor. She thought the very qualities she
prized in him, because they were to her
new and rare gifts  his fastidious delicacy,

his impatience under the slightest obligation,
the cultivated tone, so superior to
that of the rest of her acquaintances  all
these poor Pauline felt were so many
enemies set between herself and the happiness
she might have with Edmund Depuis.
Still, it was her own fault. If she had
not been so ignorant and foolish she might
have seen all this sooner, and have given
him more decided encouragement.

She thought this over till she became
more hopeful. She even rehearsed to
herself an interview in which she thought
she would ask his advice about the management
of her affairs, and let him see how
impossible it was for her to arrange them
herself, and also how greatly she preferred
his advice to that of anyone else.

She grew gradually more cheerful, and
instead of going to bed tearful and miserable,
she slept well, and wakened out of a happy
dream in which she was the wife of
Edmund Depuis.

This rose-coloured vision cheered her
through the next day, but when the time
came at which Edmund Depuis might be
expected her courage fled. The remembrance
of Madame Henroteaux's warning,
the certainty that a watch would be kept
on her, pressed distractingly. She felt
that if she did not put an end to Edmund's
visits she should lose her friends, and yet
she could not do anything to elicit the state
of his feelings towards her.

Unless he loves me," she said, " I do
not want him to say anything."

Ah ! there was the well-known knock
at the door below. She had been expecting
him these three days, and her heart
beat so wildly that thought was banished.
As he came into the room, at the sight of
the adored face, the beautiful dark eyes
smiling an affectionate greeting, Pauline's
resolves and self-control fled together ; she
could only yield herself up to the dear
delight of being once more with him.

VOL. I. p

Have you missed me, Madame ?" he
said, pleasantly. " I hoped to have come
yesterday, but my work was too far off to
enable me to return last night. I fear I
shall have to take up my abode near it
while it is so far away."

The bright glow which had flushed her
cheeks and sparkled in her eyes faded so
suddenly, that Edmund thought she must
be ill.

Do  do you mean"  she spoke in a
confused stammering way  " that you are
going to leave Namur ?"

If she had not lost her self-control, the
poor child might have seen in this plan an
escape from her perplexity, but she had
no power of judgment left. She grew
whiter every moment, and her eyes filled
with tears.

Edmund did not understand her manner.

Are you faint ?" he said, anxiously.
Shall I ring for the maid ? or can I
get you anything ?"

He felt tenderly anxious for this kind
little creature, and he knew she had no
mother or sister to care for her.

But Pauline scarcely noticed his anxiety,
she was so wrought out of herself at the
idea of losing him that she seemed carried
quite beyond control, her voice even was
shriller, strained to a higher pitch, than
he had ever heard it.

'' Do you mean that you are going away
from me ?" she cried out. " You cannot,
you will not go !"

Her dark eyes seemed to blaze against
the stricken paleness of her face, and they
met his answering look of wonder 
wonder, self-reproach, pity  in one burning
glance Pauline saw all these and the
utter absence of love ; but she had let her
feelings carry her too far for self-restraint,
in an agony of despairing shame she
crouched down in her chair till her forehead
rested on her clasped hands.

Edmund stood stupefied.

F 2

Pauline's eyes had made the revelation
as complete as was her own humiliation,
and for some minutes he was blinded by
the sudden discovery of her love.

He did not shrink from her, his softheart
wenfc out in tenderest gratitude and
pity to this sweet, helpless woman. Was
it possible that he was so necessary to
her, that the mere thought of losing him
had made her betray her feelings for him?

This was love indeed, of which any man
might be proud.

Bending down, he drew one of the small
brown hands into his own and pressed
it gently in his, for the world he would not
have her think he presumed on her love.

But the poor child drew her hand away,
and giving him one shame-faced miserable
glance, started up like a young fawn and
darted across the room.

At this Edmund's hesitation fled. He
caught her hand before she could open the
door.

Come, come," he said, soothingly, " I
cannot think you will be sorry to lose me
if you run away from me now."

Pauline's hand trembled in his, but her
nervous agitation conquered.

Please let me go," she said ; " if you
have any pity you will let me go."

She kept her face turned away, but he
saw that her slender throat and ear were
dyed crimson.

I will come again soon," he said, and
he loosed her hand ; she fled away in an
instant.

CHAPTER XIV.

Laying.

Redmond thought her departure charms
ing, there was a shy grace about it
which pleased his exacting taste.

Poor girl !" he said to himself, as he
walked slowly back to his lodging. " I
wish I had told her at once about Jeanne,
then this could not have happened."

He went upstairs and sat down in his
easy-chair to smoke. A curious sensation
warned him that he was not quite truthful
in what he had been saying to himself.
After all these weeks of soreness and disappointment,
it had been very soothing
to see the love that he had inspired.

And I have hardly seen its extent,"
he murmured to himself, " the poor little
girl strove to hide it ; it makes me feel a
pitiful fellow not to be able to return it."

Why  a sudden recollection dawned on
him  when he had announced to Jeanne,
his intention of leaving Rimayy how coolly
she had received it, and yet how much
greater cause he had given her for love
than he had given to this poor Madame
Ferage !

I never concealed my feelings from
Jeanne," he said, bitterly. " I did not
speak of them, but she must always have
seen that I loved her."

After this came a vacuum. He could
not think, so entirely did the whole affair
puzzle him  his own blindness and this terrible
sadness. For it was terrible that this
poor young widow, whose life, as she had
told him, had been so joyless till she made
his acquaintance, should have bestowed
her love on him. Edmund's tender heart

ached as he thought over what she must
now be suffering, for had he not unconsciously
rejected her. So innocent too,
and guileless of any attempt to win him ;
for a less simple woman would have
saved herself from betrayal, and have
taken slower, surer means of revealing her
love, well, then, could he do anything to
soothe her mortification and comfort her ?
 He got up and walked about his room,
debating with himself. Was it not selfish
of him to cherish a memory  a love which
never would be returned, which he suspected
never had been returned. Why
should he not give his life if. he could not
give his love to this sweet, adoring girl,
who would be entirely devoted to him ?
He tried to look into the future to see
himself as the husband of Madame Ferage.
She would be completely happy, and he
should have an eternal claim on her gratitude
 as much love for her, too, as many
husbands feel for their wives. And then

came a lower suggestion, there would be
no need to persevere in a profession he
did not like ; he should be free to write
verses and to sketch, surrounded withall
the care and charm which a loving
woman can twine round a man's life.

Why should he not make Madame
Ferage happy ? Would it make her
happy ? would it be right to marry
her while Jeanne still reigned in his
heart  when he knew that the mere
sight of Jeanne would make him forget
every tie of duty or kindness  would make
him hate the obstacle he had set up
between them ? And as this thought
came, so strong a loathing seized Edmund
that he shuddered as if he had suddenly
found himself at the edge of a precipice.

What then could he do ? He must
see Madame Ferage again, he had promised
to do so, and he must manfully tell
her all the truth. It must, he thought,
soothe her to know that he had never seen

her with free eyes, that long before their
first meeting his love had been given to
Jeanne Lahaye. He tried to think that if
it had been otherwise he might have loved
the little widow, but he could not do
this heartily. The world only held one
woman for him, and she was Jeanne.

T could never have loved at all but for
her," the poor fellow thought. He forgot
Pauline and his present trouble. He
was again beside Jeanne's cottage, and then
the striking of the clock roused him. " The
sooner I get over it the better'* he thought.
He was heavy-hearted, for he was sorry
to give up his kind little friend, and yet
he knew the next time he saw her must
be their last meeting. Even if she wished
it otherwise, he felt they would be happier
apart.

'' I must judge for her," he said, in a
thoughtful, protecting way, " she has no
mother, or friend, to guide her."

Usually when he went out, and especially

when he went to see Madame
Ferage, he brushed his hair carefully, and
took a little pains with his outward
appearance, but now he snatched up his
hat and went out in a mechanical way
that augured ill for his wish to please
Pauline.

The poor girl had been going through
paroxysms of shame and despair, and
then of bitter, unconquerable regret. If
she could only have contained herself,
only have behaved as any woman should
have behaved, he would have gone away
and would never have discovered her love.
Sometimes a hope leaped up that he might
not have understood her love for him. He
had at first thought she was ill ; might not
the tender pity she had seen in his eyes
have arisen from this idea. But this was
only an occasional gleam in the darkness of
her troubled soul.

She had stayed in her room ever since
she left him. Sometimes flung in a heap

on her bed, sometimes walking quickly
up and down when shame made her feel
repose unbearable. She was doing this
when there came a tapping at the door.

*' Monsieur Depuis is in the salon,
Madame," said the voice of Valerie.

"I cannot face him, he must despise me.
I cannot go," and then she called out,
hastily, '' that will do, Valerie, you can
go down."

But if she sent him away, should she
ever see him again. If he despised her,
would he have come back so soon to seek
her. He was going away from Namur and
she would see him once more.

She smoothed her roughened hair, but
she felt that no care could remove the
marks of crying from her eyes, they were
so red and swollen, and her cheeks were
fevered with tears. But looks did not
matter, she felt she was nothing to him 
less than ever now.

Then she hurried to the door, fearing

that if she paused any longer all courage
would flee, opened it, crossed the passage
between the two rooms, and walked into
the salon with bent head and flashed
cheeks.

Edmund waited till she had seated herself,
and then he went and stood before
her, looking like a criminal.

Madame," he said, huskily, " I look
on you as so true a friend that it seems as
if you ought to know all that relates tome."


He waited, but she only bowed her
head.

I must ask you to excuse me if I am
presuming too much on your goodness,"
he said, '* but I have been wishing to tell
you my own history ever since I knew you,
and before we part it seems right to do so."

He paused again, but she only bent her
head. She had resolved not to speak
unless it became absolutely necessary.

Years ago," Edmund went on, hoarsely,

and looking straight at the wall before
him, " 1 loved a young girl near Rimayy.
We saw one another often, and I thought
she shared my love. Before I came here
I asked her to be ray wife, but she refused
me."

There was a silence after this.
Pauline's heart beat so that she could
not speak. Edmund's story had raised a
storm of opposite feelings. Pain came
first, an utter shattering of all hope  and
then his last words changed this. At least
he was free, no actual tie bound him.
She could never be what she longed to bethe
chosen of Edmund's heart  her
humble nature saved her from the bitterness
such a wound as this would have
given to a prouder woman  but he was
free ; there was no shame in loving him,
and she might soothe his sorrow even if
she never gained his love.

Did you only ask her once ? " she
said, timidly, wondering at her own words.

Edmund turned half away, trying to
hide the pain he knew his face must show.

'' It is useless," he said ; " do not let us
talk of her, she can never be my wife."

Pauline saw the anguish in his face, and
her shyness left her. She forgot everything
but that he was unhappy.

*' I grieve for you  oh, so much," she
said, in so piteous a voice that it reached
his heart. " Oh ! how can she help loving

you ?"

The contrast struck him forcibly. He
had lavished his whole heart on Jeanne.
His last letter to her had been, he knew,
full of passionate, fervid love, and yet she
had not even thought it worth an answer.
She who was so tender and kind to all,
whose whole life seemed given to others 
he remembered bitterly at that moment,
the caresses he had seen her bestow even
on Merette  and yet she had treated his
love with contempt  and he had done nothing
 worse than nothing  for this loving

woman. He looked into the eyes of
Madame Ferage, how full of tender, timid
love they were, and how shy the poor
little shrinking creature seemed !

I was unworthy of her love, I suppose
Madame," he said, in a choked voice.;
we will not speak of her."

Pauline longed to say she thought this
girl must be unworthy of him, but she
felt tongue-tied ; she was afraid of vexing
Monsieur Depuis ; her eyes were full of
sweet tender pity as they met his.

'how good you are to me!" he said,
** how like an angel in such patient sweetness
! What interest can you take further
in such an unlucky, ungrateful fellow as I
am ? Yes, I will bid you farewell, you
are well quit of me." He felt full of remorse
; was it possible that Madame
Ferage would suffer from love of him what
he suffered for Jeanne ?

Pauline was silent for a while; how
could she answer him ? and yet she longed

to tell him the claim he had on her. She
should never see him again, she would
speak.

I had no interest in life or in anyone,"
she tried to steady her trembling
voice, and in the effort tears filled
her eyes again, and brimmed on the
reddened lids, 'still I knew you; I was
quite without sympathy. Whether you go
or stay, all you do must interest me evermore."


Though the tears welled out ready to
fall over her cheeks, she had struggled
successfully for composure ; her voice
sounded calm and quiet before she ceased
to speak.

Edmund saw the fast-coming tears ; he
noted too her efforts to keep down agitation,
and a great wave of pity swept over
him. With a sudden longing to comfort
the sorrow he had caused he seized her
hand.

It did not seem to him possible that

Vote 1. U

Madame Ferage could care for mere friendship
from him, or would accept it, but
it might soothe her, and please her, he
thought, to find that he had wished to
devote his life to her. He was in far too
impulsive a state to think those thoughts
in order, they came confusedly as he
pressed her hand tightly, and looked at
her timid tear-stained face.

Madame," he said earnestly  carried
away by the excitement he felt; something
seemed to tell him that if he paused his
words would remain unspoken  " I have
been very frank with you, and now I will
speak still more plainly, and you must
forgive me. I have no heart to offer
to you, or to any woman, but if you can
accept friendship instead of the love you
deserve, then, indeed, I will try to make
you happy ; I will give my life to show
my gratitude for your great goodness."

Pauline's eyes opened widely; surprise
kept her silent for a moment, and then she

tried gently to free her hand. But he
kept it closely clasped, while his eyes fixed
on hers, waiting for her answer.

'' You would repent of what you had
done," she said, but the change in her
voice struck him, it was timid still, but
no longer sad.

'* Why should I repent ?" he smiled at
her, and pressed her hand to his lips.
* It is I who should be the gainer ; it is
you who should weigh well whether you
ought to accept friendship only, whether
you should give yourself to such an undeserving
husband ; will you reflect on
my words ? you shall not be hurried; you
shall write to me your decision''

I " then again she drew her hand

away and pressed it against its fellow, her

heart was so full of joy she could not tell

how to answer quietly.

He looked grave, her silence puzzled

him.

Q 2

I will leave you," he said, " you shall
write me your answer."

Pauline gave a quick movement, it
seemed to her that if she did not now
decide she would prove how ungrateful
and unappi-eciative she was of his great
goodness towards her.

'' Please do not go," she said, earnestly ;
" let me thank you for all your goodness
and nobleness, I cannot expect your love  "
she paused, then in a low hesitating voice 
I can only have one answer to such
kindness ; if you are satisfied to ask me to
be your wife, I am very grateful."

It is I who am grateful ;" he was
deeply touched by her humility ; he put
his arm round her and kissed her forehead.
I will try to make you happy," he said,
you are so good, so divinely humble, that
I believe I can."

Pauline raised the hand that held hers
and kissed it fervently.

'* My love," she whispered, '' I did not
think I could ever feel such joy."

Edmund stroked her blushing cheek,
blushing like a nectarine now, as the warm
blood glowed through the clear brown skin.

'' You will tell me all your troubles,"
he said, "you will let me bear them
for you ; you had been crying to-day before
I saw you."

'eyes," and Pauline's eyes drooped
under his.

What was it ?" he said, tenderly ;
poor dear little love, you who are always
doing good, what can you have to cry
for ?"

She smiled up at him with childlike
happiness.

What was said to me can never be
said again, so it is ended. I was silly to
care about it."

 " Who said it ?" Edmund began to have
a dim idea of her meaning.

'' Madame Henroteaux came and she

said  but"  Pauline's courage failed her
" never mind what she said ; I was
foolish to cry, and now she will not leave
off being my friend'*

Edmund drew her to him and kissed her
fondly.

"How much you have had to suffer forme,"
he said ; " but Madame Henroteaux
and her circle must be satisfied at once.
I shall call on her and ask her for her congratulations
on my good fortune."

Do not laugh at me," said poor
Pauline, still so unbelieving that she feared
to hope; then as he looked at her with
surprise she whispered, ** I cannot believe
in my happiness, I feel as if I should wake
up presently and be more unhappy than
ever. I  I could not lose you now ;" she
clasped her hands clingingly on his arm.

Every word she said smote on Edmund's
heart. How she loved him, this sweet
creature, whom any man might be proud
to call his own ; why was he so cold

and ungrateful ? Yes, he would try his
best to love her, he thought ; when once
she was his wife this would surely be
easy.

I shall not give you much time to
wake up in," he said, playfully, " I want
you to fix our marriage-day, and then I
can announce it to Madame Henroteaux."

Pauline blushed, and hid her face on
his shoulder. When he left her she had
promised to marry him in three weeks'
time.

CHAPTER XY.

TOO LATE.

sphere is something pleasant in the
- sight of a well-kept house and a
well-kept woman  one in whom all looks
smooth and in good keeping, where neatness
and comeliness are set off by a certain
amount of dignity, and also of elegance.

As she sat in her pretty freshly-painted
room, creamy white walls, with pale blue
mouldings, white lace draperies at the
windows, chairs and sofas of a dark wood
with blue seats, Madame Boulotte looked
as fresh and bright as her surroundings in
spite of the more than forty years which
had brought a few grey hairs among her

fair frizzed curls  and bad changed the
dimple in her cheek to a line. Her forehead
was wonderfully smooth, and so were
her cheeks ; her whole face was serene and
peaceful, except that the slightly upturned
nose and mutinous curve in the upper lip,
gave warning that Madame Boulotte was
no optimist, and could be contemptuous if
it so pleased her. A close observer would
have said that her forehead was not
square enough, and was rather too high,
and that therefore some narrowness of
judgment might be looked for, but barring
this deficiency, and also a certain self-complacency
in the well-cut, regular lips,
Madame Boulotte was certainly a very
pleasant spectacle in her well-fitting black
dress, as she sat, letter in hand, looking
at her tall brother.

Antoine Yidonze had risen from the
breakfast table, and stood surveying
himself in the mirror over the stove
on the side of the room opposite the

lace-curtained windows. His bronzed
cheeks were deeply red, and this increase
of colour had been brought thereby
Madame Boulotte  if one might judge
by the pose of her countenance, for her
nose and chin were raised scornfully, and
her lips had a contemptuous curve.

There was silence while she tapped one
of her plump soft-skinned hands with the
taper forefinger of the other.

Well," said the photographer roughly,
are you going to give me that letter ? "

'* My dear Antoine, do be more careful
! this is the outcome of your wandering
life, you take everything so
harshly. I did not say you should not
have the letter, I only said a quoi bon.
You are quite mistaken if you think that
Jeanne Lahaye possessed any attraction
for Edmund Depuis."

Vidonze sneered angrily.

You women are all alike, each of you
thinks that a man has no eyes for anyone

but herself. I tell you that Jeanne Lahaye
does care for Depuis, and he cared for her ;
she will not listen to me unless she is sure
that he is lost to her, and that letter is just
what I want to give her the proof of his
desertion."

Madame Boulotte shrugged her shoulders.

** I am Doing: to see Jeanne," she said,
*' I will show her the letter, poor child; if
she were not in such trouble about her
grandmother I should have consulted with
her about my dress for the wedding, but
there is no time."

' You will not go to see Jeanne till tomorrow
? " he said eagerly.

'* Xo."

** Tell then, give me the letter, delays
are always dangerous, and I must say
what I have to say to Jeanne at once. I
may tell her you offer her a home while
sbe remains here? " he spoke eagerly.

Madame Boulotte nodded, but her lip
curved more than ever.

I cannot help smiling at you, Antoine,
you are as foolish and flurried as a lovesick
boy. Why are you not more self-possessed
; you need not excite yourself,
Jeanne has no choice, she must marry you,
what else can she do ? As I said before, you
are over-hasty ; she will not run away."

'' I don't know that," he muttered to
himself; then aloud, "You had better give
me the letter ; one would think it was a
draft on the bank, you set such a store by it."

Madame Boulotte read this letter once
more, then she folded it up and gave it to
her brother. It had come to her from
Namur that morning, and contained an intimation
of the engagement, and also a formal
invitation to be present at the marriage of
Monsieur Edmund Depuis with Madame
Pauline Ferage, nee Pauline Nicaise ; and
Madame Boulotte considered it a singular
coincidence that to-day was the day
after Madame Dehmoy's funeral.

Yesterday her brother, Antoine, had

suddenly announced his intention , of
marrying Jeanne Lahaye, and Madame
Boulotte had not made . any objection
thereto, for, although the girl would have
very little money, she knew that every girl
would not marry Antoine, his vagabond
life was too fresh as yet in the memory of
his acquaintances; and now that after so
many years there seemed to be a chance of
his making money, Madame Boulotte
thought that marriage might steady him,
and make him stick to his work as nothing
else would do. Jeanne was quiet and industrious
and could have no expensive tastes.
She was only surprised that Antoine
should be so easily satisfied.

He has been a rolling stone," she
thought, looking at him with some pride,
'but he is a fine, well-grown fellow, and
he has precisely my eyes and nose  if his
eyes were not bloodshot and his nose
a trifle red  but that is, of course, the
difference between a man's habits and

a woman's ; he is very absurd. Jeanne
is too much of a child to have cared
for Edmund Depuis, and he certainly
never thought seriously of her."

While she sat thinking, Antoine had put
the letter into his pocket and had buttoned
up his coat. Now he nodded to his
sister, and, running his fingers through his
hair, he took up his hat and went out.

Madame Boulotte went on thinking. The
longer she thought over Antoine's suspicion
about Jeanne, the more Likely it seemed to
be the truth, and, therefore, the more determined
she became not to believe it. Resolutely
she shut her eyes to all the little
memories which link by link came starting
up from the past year, till they formed a
chain of evidence which only wilful blindness
could discredit.

But Madame Boulotte chose to be
wilfully blind to the fact that any attachment
to Jeanne had existed on the side
of Edmund Depuis.

He cared to go to the cottage because
it gave him an excuse for rowing, it was
only for amusement," she said, her eyes
sparkling and a glow of mortified pride
burning under them ; " he looked on Jeanne
as a child. I understood poor dear
Edmund thoroughly, he wanted a steadfast
friend, and he had one while he was here;"
she sighed softly, and then she frowned,
and her smiling lips curved into their most
cynical aspect. " But for that fossil of
a cousin and this intriguing little widow,
we had still been dear friends. However
it is sweet of the poor fellow to ask me to
his marriage."

The door opened and Antoine put in his
head again.

'' If I bring Jeanne back with fine can
you make room for her to-day," he said.
I don't like leaving her in that desolate
place."

Madame Boulotte smiled.

** You are a very ardent lover, my

friend ; it is not convenient, but it can be
done, only don't come back till evening.
I must talk to Marie."

Antoine Yidonze nodded, and set out
again on his way to the cottage. His
sister's assurance that he would find no
difficulty with Jeanne had cheered him
more than he knew. She had refused him
decidedly, and he had not succeeded in
seeing her since Madame Delimoy's death,
but he thought sorrow would probably
have softened her. Then yesterday he
had had a talk with the doctor, an old
friend of Madame Deliraoy, and he had
learned that the annuity on which the
pair had lived expired with the grandmother.
Jeanne must perforce marry him
or support herself.

She is not a fool," he thought, as he took
long steps along the dry, frost-bound road;
'she knows her position; and when I
ask her to take pity on me and be my
wife, she must feel soothed and grateful,

and will be glad to forget all the unkind
words she has said to me."

His face darkened as he remembered her
scorn, and then the vision of her as she had
stood yesterday beside her grandmother's
grave, came to take out the sting from this
memory. She had looked so pale and sad,
with her long, black veil reaching to her
knees, yet how grand and noble ; there
had been none of the sadness of a
crushed women in her face. It had been
rather a sadness blended with earnest resolve,
as if sadness were set farther back,
while energy and hope were ready to
strive in the future that lay before lier.

Vidonze began to whistle softly as he
went along. " She is very beautiful," he
said. '' She is all I ask for in a wife. I
shall soon make her fond of me now
that she has the certainty that that fickle
gentleman, Depuis, belongs to some one
else. I wish the pair would leave Namur
though ; I may have to take long journeys

VOL. I. R

and leave Jeanne at home" be added, perplexed,
and then he smiled scornfully. "I
shall take Jeanne with me at first; a
man is a fool who trusts a woman. Believe
only what you see, is my maxim, and only
half of that."

He was now very near the cottage, and
he looked round him in the hope of seeing
Jeanne. He felt unwilling to force himself
upon her ; besides, he did not want to see
her exactly in the place where she had
shown such open dislike of his presence.
This may seem an unnatural strain of sentiment
for Vidonze, but he really loved
Jeanne in his own way, and love has a
strange transforming power even over a
coarse nature. He knew that the girl
sometimes went up the little valley where
Merette fed, and he turned thitherward ;
but after wandering some way up beside the
tiny half-frozen stream, he saw no trace of
either Jeanne or her cow, and it then occurred
to him that probably Merette stayed

in her stable in such weather, and only
went down to drink morning and evening
beside the Meuse, which was no longer
frozen over.

He must summon courage and go boldly
into the cottage. He looked round for
Felix, who was sometimes sweeping out
the stable in front, or chopping wood
behind the house, but there was no sign of
the boy's presence. The place looked so
very solitary, so still ; Antoine felt puzzled,
and as he stood looking at the upper
window, he saw that no smoke was issuing
from the chimney. He wondered he had not
noticed this before, and the discovery gave
him a start of surprise. He raised the
latch of the door, but it did not open.
Yidonze smiled.

She expected me," he said, " she is
prepared."

He knocked gently. '* Jeanne, open ;
will you not let me in P I have a message
from my sister, Madame Boulotte."

Then he stood listening, his ear against
the door. He did not expect she would
at once open it. No answer came, and he
determined to be very patient. He could
not hear a movement, and he spoke.

'' Jeanne, will you not answer me ; are
you above?"

He looked in at the lower window, but
he could see nothing ; then he backed from
the house, and called up to her bedroom
window.

Jeanne," he cried, " speak to me from
the window, and I will give you a message I
have from Madame Boulotte. That will
not alarm her," he thought; 'she will
readily listen if she thinks I do not want
to come in."

He waited : then he called again  there
was no sign of life. He went round to the
back of the cottage ; there too the door was
fast, and the shutter of the little shed had
not been taken down. Then, coming round
again to the river side of the house, he

gathered up some pebbles and flung them
against Jeanne's window. She might be
sleeping, he thought. He waited, but there
was no answer. Nothing to show any
presence within the whitewashed, green-shattered
house, with its blue door and
window jambs.

Yidonze looked round him. The place
had always seemed lonely, but it never
seemed so lonely as to-day. It was so still 
not a sound except the plash of the river,
and the creak in the dry branches of the
trees beside the house. Suddenly an idea
flashed on him. He hurried to the door
and shook it with his utmost strength, but
the strong lock held it back. He looked
in again through the windows. These front
shutters were often open; but it looked
dark within. There was no trace of fire
on the hearth.

Yidonze ground his teeth with baffled
anger. Jeanne had fled  but whither ? To
whom could she have gone ? He remembered

that the woman who had helped to
nurse Madame Delimoy, Felix's mother,
lived in the nearest village, and he hastened
in search of her. He thought he should
soon get the information he wanted from
Felix, even if the boy's mother knew
nothing of Jeanne's movements.

So he went along the road beyond the
cottage ; it soon left the river, and took
its way between two lofty and steep hills.
Soon he came to the few straggling huts,
some beside the road, some a little way up
the side of the falaise. These cottages
called themselves the village of Segny, and
Segnyin spite of its small size owned a little,
grey church, about a quarter of a mile
further along the road.

Yidonze felt savagely impatient as he
looked at these cottages, and felt that he
did not know in which of them he should
find the woman Rose. There was no one
about to ask questions of. The village
looked as deserted as the cottage by the

river had done. He rapped at the first door
he came to, and after some delay an old man
opened it. Yidonze knew his face at once;
he was the old grave digger of Segny ; he
had seen him yesterday in the churchyard.

Do you know where Mademoiselle
Lahaye has gone to ?" It seemed to him
that this man would probably know as much
as Rose did.

The old man's face beamed as he smiled.
His old brown skin looked a network of
black wrinkles. He had no teeth, and
seemed to have lost his lips also, but
what was left of these, mumbled together
before his words sounded clearly.

'' Yes, yes," he said, in broad Walloon
speech, '' I know well. The beautiful
Mam'zelle is where she was, at the cottage
of the Meuse."

He nodded his old head and smiled with
pleasure at having as he thought helped the
Monsieur to what he wanted.

'* Old fool, you know nothing," said

Yidonze, brutally. "Where does Rose,
the mother of Felix, live?"

The poor old man's jaw dropped, all the
glow went out of his cheery old face, and
some of the wrinkles smoothed themselves.
His head shook nervously as he answered,
like a parrot :

Yes, yes, Monsieur, Rose, the mother
of Felix, lives next door but two;" but
though he was cold he did not shut the
door on his rude questioner, but stood
waiting till he saw the woman at the next
cottage open to answer Monsieur Yidonze's
loud rap. Then the old man closed his
own door gently, and crept back to his seat
beside the hearth.

Eugenie, my friend," he said, lovingly,
to what seemed like a bundle of grey
flannel on the opposite and most sheltered
corner of the hearth, " that was a rude
customer,  and he wants our Mam'zelle
Jeanne. May the Lord," he crossed himself,

"keep her safe from him now and
hereafter !"

Amen," said a feeble voice from the
flannels ; '* there is no one so good as our
Mam'zelle. May the Holy Virgin be her
guide !

Meanwhile, Antoine Yidouze had put
the same question to the stolid mother of
Felix.

"Mademoiselle has gone away," Rose
said.

I know that." He was more impatient
than ever ; it seemed to him Jeanne could
not have gone far. He must hasten to
overtake her. " When did she go ? Where
has she gone? Tell me quickly."

"1 know nothing; Felix told me she
had gone ; that is all."

Vidonze looked keenly at the flat, meaningless
face. " Just the face to hide a
lie," he thought. He pulled out two francs
and put them in her hand. " I forgot to
pay FeUx for his errand; is he in?" He

BESIDE THE Ever.

peered over her shoulder into the cottage.


The stolid face broke into a smile. She
nodded as she looked at the money in
her hand.

*' Into, Monsieur, he is not in, and he will
perhaps not be in tomorrow. There is a
fair near Givett tomorrow, Monsieur, and
he has gone to drive Merette to the fair to
be sold ; he has gone yesterday."

Vidonze stood a minute thinking.

Felix has not gone by himself to sell
the cow ; you are not speaking the truth,
woman."

E/Ose had before seen Monsieur Vidonze's
anger; when he had come to the cottage
after Madame Delimoy's death, and Jeanne
had refused to admit him, he had
stormed with anger as he stood outside.
It did not disturb her sensitive nature
to see him angry now. She was a Fleming,
dull and impassive, and besides, she had
always been stupid and ugly, and so had not

met with any extra courtesy from men in
her monotonous life.

No, Monsieur, Felix did not go alone ;
Monsieur le Cure has gone with him," she
said.

Sure to be a meddling priest at the
bottom of it, curse them all !" Vidonze
muttered. '' Near Givett you say ; what is
the name of the place where the fair is
held ?"

Rose shook her head with a vacant expression.


Ah, Monsieur," she said, simply, '' I
cannot tell you that for the best of all
reasons, I have never heard it. ' I am going
along with Monsieur le Cure to sell Merette,'
Felix said, and he went, Monsieur."

And you expect him back tomorrow ?"

She looked at him with round, wondering
eyes.

I did not say that, did I, Monsieur ?
Monsieur le Cure does not tell his arrangements
to a poor woman like me ; I know

only that Felix has gone with Monsieur le
Cure''

At least they will know at the presbytery
?

Rose shook her head, and looked more
stolid than ever.

No Monsieur, there is no one there.
Leontine, the housekeeper of Monsieur le
Cure, has gone in his absence to see her
mother, and I am keeping the key till she
comes home  the presbytery is locked up."

Yidonze swore aloud oath.

'' Confound all women and priests," he
said ; *' they always hang together, but
they shall not fool me. I will go to Givett
too, and bring this Cure to a reckoning ;
he must know where Jeanne is, and no
doubt he is selling Merette by her orders."

CHAPTER Xii.

A WEDDING.

lyrONSIEUR BACONFOY looked
radiant ; his massive, iron-grey hair
had been made as smooth as its natural
waviness would allow, and his dark eyes
gleamed under their bushy, black brows
with a mirth that was akin to mischief.

He had insisted on giving the wedding
dinner; not at La Grue, which Edmund
said would be too public, but in a room
close by, and it was served at noon, so
that there might be time for a drive for the
.wedding-party in two of his best carriages
before the day grew dusk.

He sat at the dinner-table facing edmund

and his bride ; Madame Boulotte was
on bis left hand. There were four other
visitors, an old aunt of Monsieur Bacon-soy,
and three gentlemen acquaintances of
Edmund Depuis.

Pauline looked very sweet and bright,
all the shy trouble had vanished from her
glowing face, and she laughed merrily at
Monsieur Baconfoy's jokes,

Edmund was graver than a bridegroom
should be ; but now and then he fell into
boisterous spirits, as if he made the
effort against himself; at least this was
Madame Boulotte's conclusion as she
looked tenderly at her friend.

It was by Pauline's wish that Edmund had
sent the lettre de faire part to Madame
Boulotte. He felt a secret unwillingness
to spread the news of his approaching
marriage ; but Madame Ferage was so
friendless, and when she asked him if he
had no female relation who could be with
her he had no choice, for his only female



relations, except the old aunt, were in a
foreign country. Madame Henroteaux had
received the news of the engagement so
coldly that poor Pauline felt she could not
expect sympathy from her or from her
fellow-gossips.

Edmund had got through the interval
in busy excitement, He dared not let himself
think  above all he never let his
thoughts dwell on Jeanne. Madame
Boulotte, iu accepting the invitation, had
shown her disapproval of the marriage by
returning a formal answer, so that no word
of Madame Delimoy's illness or death had
reached Edmund Depuis. He had tried to
be with Pauline as much as possible, and
usually she had power to soothe his disquiet,
and he had had much to see to in
getting the new home ready. He had
taken a house in the outskirts of the city,
with a pretty garden, and when they came
back from their drive this afternoon, their
new life would begin in this house, but for a

time only, for Edmund had told Pauline he
wished to leave Namur.

But though Madame Boulotte had many a
tender glance for Edmund, she was not
wholly devoted to him. She had felt armed
at all points to meet this sour, cynical
cousin of his  " the fossil woman-hater,"
as she always called Monsieur Baconfoy.
When she saw coming up the nave of the
church, beside Edmund, this grand-looking,
handsome man, pleasant-faced and smiHng,
in full-dress uniform  for he was Major of
the National Guard, and had indeed been in
his younger days a soldier of the Line  she
felt puzzled and much disturbed. Her
armour of defence seemed to have dropped
off and left her, to her surprise, far more
ready to attract this genial-looking cynic
than to repel him. Still she thought he
might be on his best behaviour to-day ; no
doubt his real character would show itself
if she only watched for it and drew him out.

The dinner was a success, and they

had readied the stage of dessert, when in
answer to some words from the bride,
Baconfoy burst forth in praise of women.

Some of them are angels, they are
too good for this world," he said, enthusiastically.
There was a general laugh, for
the young men present were well accustomed
to his diatribes against the sex.

Madame Boulotte bridled. She thought
this was a fair opening.

You surprise me, Monsieur," she said ;
1 have heard so much of your dislike to
our sex, that I confess I can hardly credit
such praise as this from you, you must
have been maligned."

She looked so fresh, so dainty and
pleasant, her voice sounded so soft and
equable, that Baconfoy felt as if he had
been smoothly stroked down the back with
a velvet paw.

Yes, Madame," he smiled roguishly,
I fear I have been maligned to you,

VOL. I. s

for I have been told you consider me a
fossil."

Madame Boulotte's delicate pink cheeks
grew rosy, and she gave a reproachful
glance at Edmund, but he was bending
down to speak, in a whisper, to Pauline.

The widow opened her eyes widely and
looked as unconscious as she could.

"It is possible," she said sweetly, "that we
have both been calumniated to one another.
I have been told such terrible things about
you ;" she shook her head and her blue
eyes looked pathetic.

Monsieur Baconfoy tried to keep a
serious face  but it was too much for him
he burst out laughing.

Madame Boulotte pouted, then tried to
frown, but the genial mirth in his dark
eyes conquered, and she laughed in return,
so heartily that tears came to her eyes.

Baconfoy filled her glass with champagne,
and then his own.

Madame," he bowed, " if you will

drink to the health of the ' fossil,' who
knows he may not become human again ?"
Then seeing that the other guests were
talking together, he whispered, with a
glance at the young couple, who were still
talking to each other, *' it was not altogether
the act of a fossil, I think, to bring
those two together, and I believe I had a
hand in it."

I said you had." Madame Boulotte
spoke emphatically, and she drew herself
a little further away from her admiring
neighbour.

Monsieur Baconfoy thought her charming;
he quite understood her pettish
movement, and that she resented the loss
of his young cousin's devotion, for he
supposed that Edmund had been devoted
to this pleasant woman, as he had been to
others, but it seemed to him that anyone
who had been as handsome as Madame
Boulotte had been, and still was, might
expect attention from all men. The absences

2

of eagerness in her manner delighted him,
but he did not quite believe in it, he wished
to try if this arose from coldness or from
practice.

** I am sure you think I have done well'*
he continued, his eyes beaming mischievously,
but his manner showed the
stress he laid on her reply.

How can I tell," she said, '' at ray
age ?" she lowered her eyelids demurely,
but her cheeks flushed ; *' one never judges
by outside appearance."

'you are right there, Madame."
Baconfoy was delighted to find that he
could ruffle this perfect calm ; " the only
compensation one finds in increasing years
is that they teach one the small value of
outward seeming ; one learns that beauty
is but skin-deep, and therefore one no
longer covets it. Is it not so ? "

The flush on Madame Boulotte's fair
face had deepened into red, and her blue
eyes were bright with indignation.

A fossil, indeed ! Edmund's cousin was
far worse than a fossil, he had no behaviour
at all.

But Monsieur Baconfoj sat with his
head slightly on one side, listening for her
answer.

Monsieur," she spoke in a very
freezing tone, and looked steadily at him
it is quite impossible that one person's
experience can resemble another's ; for my
part, I am not conscious of having coveted
that which 1 do not possess."

Baconfoy clapped his huge hands and
laughed so heartily that the bride and
bridegroom roused from their low-voiced
talk to listen, and the other guests turned
their eyes on the genial host.

"What is it, Jules?" Edmund said;
you seem very merry, I hope it is not atour
expense ? "

 Madame Boulotte gave him a gracious
smile.

On the contrary, my dear friend,"

she said sweetly, "your cousin was only
laughing at poor me."

"Ah, Madame, you will forgive me,"
but Baconfoy laughed again, with irrepressible
enjoyment at her discomfiture.
I lay myself at your feet ; if I laughed
it was at the aptness of your rebuke,
which I confess I deserved. I have the
bad habit," he said, " of always trying to
tease, and as to-day my friend opposite,"
he nodded at Edmund, " is safe from me,
I have actually been guilty of teasing a
lady; it is inconceivable, that I who
have so profound an admiration for 
for  " here he broke into a fresh peal of
laughter and everyone joined, except
Madame Boulotte, who only gave a little
disdainful smile.

Before his cousin recovered himself,
Edmund began to rebuke him.

You are a nice fellow," he said, " to
laugh at a lady ; fie on you, I thought you
knew better."

At this Jules began to, laugh again, but
Madame Boulotte said with smiling dignity:

Monsieur Baconfoy is very amusing,
my dear friend. Novelty is always amusing,
and I cannot remember that anyone
has ever laughed at me before to-day ; is ita
politeness you Namurois show to
strangers r" she smiled sweetly, and with
the patience of a martyr, on the gentlemen
round the table.

At this all the men present began to
abuse Baconfoy ; they told him that he was
a disgrace to his sex, and to the gallantry
of the town of Namur.

He looked more sheepish than Edmund
could have believed possible, as he bowed
reverentially to Madame Boulotte.

*' At least, Madame, you have the
happiness of a triumph," he said, "you have
won all to your side, and must accept my
homage, and repentance also ;" then rising
and again bowing he said, *' May I be permitted
to hand you to the carriage, which I

hear has just driven up ?" Then he turned
to the bride, and with a courtesy which surprised
Madame Boulotte, he asked Pauline
if she was ready to start for the drive he
had planned. He then commended his
aunt to the care of the visitors.

While Edmund placed his bride in the
carriage, Baconfoy said to Madame Boulotte.

How is your brother, Madame ? he too,
I fancy, is thinking of taking a wife."

Yes, Monsieur, he tells me he intends
to marry."

Does the young lady live at Eimay ? "
persisted Baconfoy.

Edmund had been near them ; at the last
question he turned to Madame Boulotte,
gave her a rapid, questioning look, and
then he turned away.

The look thrilled through Madame
Boulotte with sudden pain ; she forgot her
anger against Monsieur Baconfoy, all but
her intense curiosity about Edmund. What
if Antoine had been right, and this newly-married

man had really lo vet Jeanne Lahaye
then the best way was to give him the
answer his look had asked for.

No, Monsieur," she looked at Bacon -
foy, as she said distinctly, " she does not
live at Rimayy, she is called Mademoiselle
Jeanne Lahaye, she has lived till now in a
cottage beside the Meuse, a few miles
from Rimayy, a lonely little place, but  "

Ah," said Baconfoy, '' permit me to
help you in, Madame."

She was just going to tell him of the death
of Madame Delimoy, but this interruption
gave her time to reflect, and she was glad
of it. It would have been most unlucky
to talk of anything so sad at a wedding.
Besides, if her suspicions were true, the
less said about Jeanne the better for
Edmund Depuis. Madame Boulotte noticed
that he got into the carriage last of
all, and began to laugh and talk with the
boisterous gaiety she had noticed at the
beginning of dinner. This set her off

thinking, and she was unusually silent
through the drive. It was possible Antoine
had been right, and she had been wrong 
she who was so seldom wrong. This sensation
upset her, and she felt several years
older than usual as she sat gazing at
Pauline.

CHAPTER Xiii.

BAFFLED.

A NTOINE VIDONZE had said nothing
- to his sister about Jeanne's sudden
disappearance. He was sure he should
soon find the girl, and then it need never
be known that she had fled, for he felt sure
she had gone away to escape from him. He
told his sister carelessly when he returned
that Mademoiselle Lahaye was going to stay
with friends, and that she had better not
pay her visit of condolence till he gave her
notice of the girl's return.

I did not know she had any friends,"
said Madame Boulotte.

Yes, yes ; it is all right, and, if I am

satisfied, no one else need trouble his
head about the matter. In the meantime,
as I have to be absent myself a good
deal on my affairs, I wish you would
try to find me a clever manager  a
woman able to carry on the business, and
also to keep the house. I am quite satisfied
about Jeanne."

His sister thought he did not seem
altogether satisfied, but she did not say so.
She was just then absorbed by the idea of
her wedding costume, and she quickly forgot
her proposed visit to Jeanne Lahaye.

Vidonze stayed that night at Rimayy. He
determined to succeed in finding Jeanne,
but at first it seemed as if he must wait till
the Cure and Felix returned. The Cur
might baffle him, but it must be his own
fault if he did not get the truth from Felix.

Suddenly a clue came. He remembered
that ; after he left Jeanne's cottage on his
last visit there, the doctor had overtaken
him just before he reached Rimayy, and

had said something about Jeanne's hasty
summons. He remembered that at the
time he had wondered who had been the
summoner, for he had himself wakened
Felix and taken him away before daylight.
What a fool he had been not to suspect
then that Jeanne had friends of whom he
knew nothing ! With this new idea in his
mind, he did not lose a moment ; he went
straight to the doctor's house, but he
was out. Vidonze looked keenly at the
old woman who opened the door. She
had a kindly face, and was garrulous
in apologies for her master's absence.
Vidonze led her into talk, and soon introduced
the subject of Madame Delimoy.

The old woman's chin wagged sympathetically.


Mafoi  she went off quickly, we were
just of an age," she said; 'who could
have thought she would go so young ?"

Your master did all he could to save
her, I am sure of that," said Vidonze; and

then he added, so carelessly that his
tone would have aroused the suspicion of
a different listener, " do you remember
who came for your master the day Madame
Delimoy died ?"

The old woman's smile broadened with
the rare delight of feeling important.

'' Oh, yes, Monsieur ; I remember well,
for such a lady as she that came I have not
often seen. Mon Dieu ! she was tall, and
she spoke out as if she were a queen."

Vidonzefelt strangely excited. He must
find out all he could.

"Was this lady only passing through
Eimay?" he asked.

The old woman's chin shook with her
eagerness to impart her news.

Dear heart, no," she said; '*I wonder
what Mam'zelle Because would say if she
heard you. She was as proud as a white
hen that a real lady and gentleman had
slept two nights at the * Singe door.' "

*' They have left then ?"

The old woman shrugged her shoulders,
and gave him an inquisitive glance ; his
impatient tone had snapped the thread of
her eagerness.

Ah ! Monsieur must find out for himself
if he so much wishes to know. Forme,
I have my dinner to cook. I have
told Monsieur all I know."

Vidonze gave a sullen nod and turned
along the one street of the town till he
reached the '' Singe door." If he had
only known this two days ago, it would
have been everything; now he feared he
was too late. He scarcely felt disappointed
when Mademoiselle Because told
him that the lady and gentleman had left
two days ago for Givett. Vidonze thanked
her, and then he walked away with his hands
in his pockets, pondering his next move.

At last he decided to go to Givett. It
was only a short journey, and perhaps he
might kill two birds with one stone, for
possibly he might at Givett meet the Cure

and the boy Felix. But disappointment
followed him. He went to the best inn at
Givett and asked to see the landlord ; he
learned that a lady and gentleman had
arrived there two days ago from Rimayy,
but they had no luggage, and had only
stayed an hour.

Where did they go ?"

Ah ! that is an impossible question,"
said the inn-keeper. Further questioning
elicited that they had walked away towards
the railway station, but as they had no luggage
they had gone as they had come-quietly,
without attracting any special
notice.

Yidonze broke into a volley of oaths.
He told the innkeeper that he ought
always to know where his guests came
from and went to; that it was part of
his duty to see that names were duly
entered in his visitors' book ; but the innkeeper,
a burly, sallow man, with sly,
twinkling eyes, told him with a laugh to

mind his own business, and left him standing
on the mat in the entrance passage,
while he went back into his den to finish
an interrupted nap.

Yidonze returned to the railway-station,
but he gained no news there. " So
many people had been coming and going
on account of the fair at Odinne," the
station-master said, " no one could
keep count of any special travellers. The
fair ? Oh, it had been a cattle-fair, and was
over a day sooner than was expected ; the
beasts sold so well that people had gone,
taking their bargains with them."

Yidonze ground his teeth in baffled
anger. The Cure was his last hope, and
he must seek him. It was not so very far
to walk from Givett to the little village, and
he soon set out on the cliff-bordered road.
He had never loved Jeanne so passionately
as now when she seemed for ever lost
to him. What a thoughtless fool he had
been to frighten the sweet girl into the

VOL. I. T

arms of these strangers, for he believed
they were only chance acquaintances. Suppose,
after all, she had not gone away, but
was safe with Monsieur le Cur. In that
case it behoved him to make a friend of
the priest, and to be as courteous as possible.


It was a longer walk than he expected
; but somehow Vidonze's impatience
had subsided ; and on the way the
thought that Jeanne miofht after all be
near at hand was soothing, and he made
an earnest resolve that when he next saw
her he would strive to be all she could
wish. He could not understand his own
rough conduct at their last meeting, and he
called himself sundry hard names as he
strode along the road. He had left the
highway, and went along a narrow valley
with steep wooded hills on either hand.

I was mad with love, that is my excuse,"
he said ; " no girl worth a sou will
bear to be driven, and a spirit like Jeanne's

least of all. How divine she looked in
her anger !"

And then he sighed. He would find
Jeanne ; he must find her, if he gave up
years of his life to the search. It was a
new phase in his life to be absorbed in the
thought of another person, and he could
not understand himself.

The narrow road followed the abrupt
curves of the hills, so that every now and
then they closed in at each end, and there
seemed no outlet from the rocky prison,
for between the trees huge grey boulders,
sometimes mantled with ivy, projected forward
over the road.

As Vidonze turned one of these
sharp curves, he saw that he was no
longer alone. A short distance before
him walked a priest with slow steps
and bent head. Vidonze looked intently
yes, it was the very man he was seeking
; and Monsieur le Cure was walking
along leisurely, reading his breviary as

T 2

he went, so he need not hurry to overtake
him.

But Monsieur le Cure was not too much
absorbed to hear footsteps coming behind
him, and he turned round to confront his
fellow-traveller.

He recognised Yidonze, and raised his
broad-leaved hat in answer to his greeting.
During Madame Delimoy's illness he had
met the photographer more than once in
the cottage beside the Meuse.

There was a vivid contrast in the faces
of the two men, as they stood looking atone
another for an instant before either
spoke. Vidonze's height, and his broad
muscular shoulders, made the priest look
shorter than he really was ; the bigger
man's glowing beard looked more fiery than
usual against the holland blouse he wore.
His bronzed face was deeply red from
walking through the crisp, keen air, and
his large prominent eyes seemed to lookout
fiercely from among the tangled

red hair. The cold had made the Cure's
mild face pale and pinched, his nose
and his lips, too, were grey with
cold, and his gentle blue eyes looked
watery ; but there was indescribable
sweetness underlying this chilly aspect,
and though the pair might have stood fora
picture of the Wolf and the Lamb, yet
the Lamb looked full of quiet dignity, and
able to defend itself, unless indeed against
physical force.

You have come from Givett, Monsieur,
as I have, is it not so ?" Then as the priest
nodded, Vidonze went on : " May I walk
beside you ? I have something to say. I
intended to call at the presbytery, but this
meeting will save me the trouble."

Monsieur le Cure, or Father Hallez ashe
was called by his flock, was an old-fashioned
Catholic, and did not consider
the Liberal portion of his village to be reprobates.
He shook his head and looked
grave when he heard of any very startling

political innovation; but he believed more in
love and in the force of prayer than in compulsion,
so that religious life went on far
more tranquilly in his little village than it
did in some of the larger towns beside the
Meuse. But with all this toleration he
had a keen insight into men and women,
and the face of the red-bearded man who
stood facing him would not have made
him feel trustful of the photographer, even
if this had been their first meeting, or if
he had been ignorant of Yidonze's conduct
in respect of Jeanne Lahaye.

He merely bowed, and resumed his walk
along the lonely road ; but he did not smile
or say, "Willingly, Monsieur," though by
nature he was extremely courteous.

Yidonze, however, was glad of his
silence, it left him free to put his questions
exactly as he chose.

*' Monsieur," he said, " to come to the
point at once, do you know where Mademoiselle
Jeanne has gone to ?"



Monsieur Hallez had been expecting
this question, and had got the answer all
ready.

*' I do not know where Mademoiselle
Lahaye is' he said.

"Pardon me," Vidonze said quickly,
with a sneer; "I can hardly believe that
you are entirely ignorant of her proceedings."


The Cure smiled ; but he walked on in
silence.

'' I think. Monsieur, that you will feel
that I have a right to question you."
Vidonze spoke in an injured tone. *' You
are perhaps not aware that Mademoiselle
Lahaye is my promised wife ; before she
died, Madame Delimoy gave her full consent
to our marriage."

The Cure had kept his mild eyes fixed on
Vidonze, and he saw he was speaking the
truth.

"That may be, Monsieur; and yet
it appears," he said slowly, " that

Madame Delimoy never spoke on the subject
to her grand-daughter, and therefore
the contract is incomplete, and cannot beheld
binding on Mademoiselle Lahaje."

'* This is quibbling, Monsieur, and you
know it." Yidonze's anger was rising, he
felt as if he could strangle Jeanne's adviser,
for what hope had he of reaching her
through this adverse channel ? "I ask you
by whose means Jeanne left the cottage,
and in whose charge she now is ? You are
bound to answer a civil question." He
lowered his voice, and tried to look less
angry.

Monsieur Hallez raised his head and
looked at him steadily.

I have only one answer to give you.
Monsieur, and if you are wise you will give
up your suit. Mademoiselle Lahaye does
not wish to be your wife, and chiefly to
avoid the pain of refusing you she has
gone away to live with friends. You cannot,
I think," he added smiling, '' expect

me to give you the name of these friends,
as by so doing I should entirely go against .
Mademoiselle Lahaye's wishes."

'' Take care what you do." Yidonze
spoke in a threatening voice. 'you are
acting illegally. I am the promised husband
of Jeanne Lahaye, and you have
aided and abetted a plan for taking her
away from me, her natural protector."

Father Hallez shook his head, and quickened
his pace.

You had better answer me before it is
too late," said Yidonze.

The Priest waved his thin hand to show
that he considered discussion useless.

'' I can only repeat my former answer.
Mademoiselle Jeanne refuses to be your
wife, and you have no writing to show on
your part. In such a case a promise cannot
be considered binding, one of the parties
never having given consent thereto."

Yidonze shook his fist at the priest.
"You may live to be sorry for your

share in this piece of work," he said ;
then, with an oath which scared the
colour from the Cure's gentle face, " I was
a fool to waste my time in talking to you ;
as if anyone could hope to baffle the
trickery of a priest."

Then he started off in a rage. He
was as angry with himself as with the
Cure. All his boasted self-possession and
policy had failed him ; he had lost his
temper like an irritable school-boy, just
when he should have been most patient if
he meant to circumvent this wily old man ;
but there was still Felix ; it was not possible
he could be such a fool as to be
baffled by a child.

He soon left the priest far behind him ;
striding on at such a pace that before long
he reached the presbytery ; but he did
not go to the house-door. On one side of
the little square in front was a range of
'sheds. He guessed he should find Felix
in one of these. Looking into the darkness

of the nearest shed he could not at first
distinguish any object ; but after a while
he made out a cow, and a black mass
crouched near her.

Felix," he called, " Felix;" but a snore
came for reply. The boy was sound asleep.

Yidonze went into the dark, warm place,
fragrant with the breath of the cow.

He bent down to look, for after all it
might not be Felix.

Felix," he said, in a low, distinct voice,
and the boy started at once awake.

Yes, Mam'zelle Jeanne." Felix jumped
up rubbing his eyes.

It is I, Monsieur Vidonze, mon enfant*
he laid, his hand on the boy's arm to keep
him in the stable, " what are you doing
here, Felix ?  you are at the presbytery."

But the boy was now broad awake.

Yes, Monsieur," he said, '' I am to live
here, to take care of Merette."

** But you took Merette to Givett to sell
her, at Odinne? "

Felix shook his head and yawned, he
had not had his sleep out.

We did not take Merette, we took the
cow of Monsieur le Cure," he said.

Ah ! " Yidonze slapped him on the
shoulder, "you are taking care of her till
Mademoiselle Jeanne comes back. Do
you expect her soon, my Felix? eh,"
and though he could not distinguish
clearly, Yidonze felt how stolid this boy
looked. " Is Mara'zelle Jeanne coming
home again ? "

He thought his stolidity might be
assumed. He had purposely brought with
him a five franc piece; as he put this
into the boy's hot hand he whispered,

Look here, Felix, that is for you if you
tell me where Mam'zelle Jeanne has gone to."

Felix felt the money tenderly with both
hands, and put it secretly to his mouth to
make sure that it was silver.

I have not seen her," he said.

'' You have not seen her, because she

has gone away, but you saw her go away,
and you heard where she went to ; did you
not, my boy ? "

FeUx left go of the money with one
hand, and plunged this into his short,
bristly hair.

I do not know," he said.

'' If you have nothing to tell me I have
nothing to pay you for. I thought a five
franc piece was a nice thing to keep, but
give it up."

The boy stood silent, but presently there
came a sob, and then a howl of misery ashe
threw himself down among the dry
ferns which made Merette's bed.

Vidonze swore at him, and stooping
dragged him up on his feet again.

Look here, little fool," he said, " and
make less noise. I will keep this money till
you tell me what has become of Mam'zelle
Jeanne ; you know where I live, and,
besides, I shall be here again tomorrow."

Felix had been kindly treated both by

Jeanne and the Cure, but lie loved money,
and he had never possessed more than a
few sous, which his mother had given him
out of his wages, he felt crazy for the
possession of that five franc piece, his
fingers itched for it.

I cannot tell," he said, sullenly. *' I
know nothing. Mam'zelle Jeanne bade
me go home to sleep at my mother's, and
when I came next morning she was gone."

But you saw her at Givett."

' I did not go to Givett, I went to the
fair, with the cow of the presbytery," he
began to sob afresh. He so longed to beale
to tell Vidonze what he wanted to know.
Mam'zelle Jeanne was not at the fair."

Vidonze stood musing, it seemed to him
that Felix would tell him if he could, and
he began to see that Jeanne had purposely
sent this child out of the way.

Listen," he said, in a milder tone,
*' you are not to say you have seen me ; and
there is a franc to keep your mouth shut

and your ears open ; if you listen and watch
you will learn where Mam'zelle Jeanne is,
and as soon as you bring me word you shall
have this big coin I put in your hand just
now. Is it a bargain ? "

Yes, Monsieur," the boy spoke eagerly,
I will find out what you want to know."

*' Lie down now and go to sleep again,
your master will be here directly, let him
find you asleep."

Vidonze found his way out quietly, so
as to avoid the road by which he had come.

' Little scoundrel !" he said to himself,
he never troubles his head as to whether
I mean harm or good to Jeanne, he only
thinks of the money ; well, that makes him
a surer tool."

Meanwhile Monsieur Hallez came in by
the front gate and went straight to the
cow-stable.

'* Felix," he called, and then looking in,
the boy's snores told him how soundly he
slept. " Poor little fellow," said the priest,
the long journey has tired him out."

CHAPTER XVIII.

Pauline's home.

TT was just a fortnight after the marriage
-*- of the widow and Edmund Depuis.
Edmund had gone out for the day 
for the first time without Pauline  but he
had gone to fulfil her wishes, and to tell the
engineer with whom he had worked that he
meant to abandon his profession. Pauline
had been in such a transport of childish
delight at his consent to this so much
earlier than he had led her to hope for,
that she rather hurried his departure.

*' When he comes back," she said to
herself, '* he will be quite my own, there
will be nothing, not even business, to take
him an instant away from me."

She stood at the gate and watched him
ride away with a smiling face, but when
she came back into the house darkness
seemed to have fallen over it. She went
into the sitting-room, she had thought it
charming when Edmund first showed it to
her full of birds and flowers, now it looked
desolate and uninteresting ; she felt already
tired of it.

And he will be gone six hours, perhaps
longer," she murmured, " Oh what shall I
do, what shall I do without my darling ! "

The first thing she did was to sink on
the sofa, and burying her face among the
cushions, she sobbed aloud.

But when her crying fit ended, Pauline
felt ashamed of herself, she sat up, pushed
the silky rings of dark hair out of her wet
eyes and smiled.

'' What a baby I am ! I am quite silly,"
she said, " it is because he has never left
me before ; but I must not be so selfish."

But the first hour or two proved almost

VOL. I. u

unendurable, and Pauline had to strive
hard against a second crying fit. She went
into her husband's study. Before her
marriage she had wished to surround
Edmund with many little luxuries, but he
had been almost ungracious in refusing
her gifts. As she looked round and saw
how bare the walls were, her eyes
brightened and the gloom left her face.
It was a pretty little room, looking on the
garden, well papered and well furnished,
but there was no luxurious superfluity
about it, no splendid pipes, no pictures on
the wall, and only two lounging chairs.
In the house of her first husband Pauline
had seen the surroundings of a man accustomed
to self-indulgence in all ways, and she
felt a pang of self-reproach even that two
weeks had gone by and she had not carried
out any of the plans she had made before
marriage. She ran quickly to her room
and rang for Valerie, who had come with
her mistress to her new home.

Give me my things, quick, Valerie, and
get yourself ready too ; if we can be ready
in five minutes we shall catch the train for
Brussels."

Valerie's red face paled suddenly, she
put her hand on her heart, as if it pained
her, and stared piteously at her mistress.
Pauline laughed heartily and clapped her
hands. No one who had known the dark-eyed,
pensive little widow could have
recognised this glowing ardent face now
brimming over with happiness for the
same Pauline.

Make haste, make haste, Valerie, or we
shall not get back in time," and then the
loving wife went to her desk and took out
the rouleau of Leopoldss which her husband
had insisted on her keeping in her own
possession, half of the sum which she had
drawn out the day before her marriage.

'* I forgot Edmund," she said, blushing,
'' when I said I should never want money,
I thought only of myself."

u 2

She chided a rouleau of Leopoldss in
her pretty little hand. One would have
thought she was going to buy a house
instead of a few luxuries.

Valerie was ready at last, and they
started; the house lay nearer to the
station than it did to the heart of the
town, so that they had not far to go.
They had just come in sight of the station
when they met a tall woman, wrapped
in a long cloak, with a thick veil over her
face. As Pauline looked, she felt a thrill
of recognition. It was scarcely a surprise
when the woman stopped in front of her,
and throwing up her veil showed the
almost forgotten face of Mademoiselle
Herkenne.

"I was going to your house." She
spoke coldly, while poor little Pauline
changed colour quickly, and looked frightened.
" I have important business to
speak about."

Pauline's former tyrant had been watching

her face, and she thought she saw submission
there already. But it had only
been a memory that had brought the look ;
Pauline's new freedom snapped the sudden
bondage that had held her as she remembered
that she owed no duty to anyone
but Edmund.

She smiled kindly at Mademoiselle Her-kennel,
and her freed senses took in at a
glance the woe-begone poverty of her
clothing.

I must go now to the station, I have
no time to spare," she said, "but we are
coming back at seven ; if you will meet me
here I shall have time to take you home
and talk to you then. Au revoir

She tripped away with a bright smile
before Mademoiselle Herkenne had recovered
from her surprise at the change in
her former pupil. There was no answering
smile on her dark face. She stood still
where Pauline had left her, and there was
something like menace in her eyes. But the

anger she felt at being baffled was soon
laid aside. The world had used Elise
Herkenne hardly, and this usage had
taught her to keep all her faculties alert,
that she, too, might take advantage of
others. She pondered deeply over the
change in her pupil. She had not seen
Pauline since her first marriage. She had
been stung to fury on learning that " the
little timid doll," as she called her, was to
marry a rich man, and have at her command
all that she herself had all her life
coveted, while she was left to seek a new
position in the plodding weariness of teaching.
She looked at herself in the glass,
and then she thought of Pauline's shy
face and undeveloped figure, and took
heart. If her little pupil had done so well,
why should not she do well also and
enjoy the bright side of life ? She went
from Malines to Brussels ; but she soon
found that a homeless young woman
had little chance of marrying into the

position she coveted ; even a shopkeeper
would look for a portion with his wife.
She had quickly spent her slender savings
in dress ; but she soon had admirers when
she went to hear the band play in the park,
under the guidance of her old landlady.
The landlady was kind, and greatly
admired her stylish lodger. She told her
with such a figure she would make a fortune
on the stage, but Elise was bent on
making a good marriage, and she did not
think the stage would help her to this
unless she had a real talent for acting.
Early in life she had loved passionately
and, as she thought, well ; she
had been basely deceived, and thrust out
into the world to do the best she could
there. She remembered her lover only to
hate him. He might be dead, she thought,
but at least he should not recognise her
as an actress. If she ever saw him again
it should be in a position so superior to
his ovvn that he would be afraid to
approach her.

Time went on, and then all at once
her landlady, a miser at heart, began
to press for her rent, and not only for
rent, but for money advanced to the incautious
Elise. At last she began to
threaten, and told her lodger she could
have money if she choose to accept it.
Elise knew this well, but she still hoped
to live honourably ; her debts increased
and her means diminished  but there is
no use going into the details of a woman's
ruin. Elise paid her debts, and had
lived in outward splendour till a few
months before she met with Madame
Depuis. Then she sank into poverty
again, fell ill, and was nursed at the hospital
of Namur. During her recovery she
heard some one talking of the marriage
of the rich young widow, Madame
Ferage and the handsome MonsieurDupuis.
This seemed to offer a refuge from starvation.
Only to-day she had got her
discharge, and immediately she sought

out ber old pupil. She was faint with
fatigue, and when she met Pauline her
head was dizzy with the stir around her.
Now she stood thinking  she had not more
than a couple of francs in the world,
and that little heartless puss had bade her
wait her pleasure till seven o'clock. What
could have so changed the child ?

"It is money," the wretched woman said;
she was a soulless little being, without a
thought of anything. The only happiness
offered her when she married Monsieur
Ferage was money, and she could not have
known even how to spend it  little fool !"
She paused, and went on thinking. " It has
given her self-possession, however," she
said, **andl suppose I must submit to her
patronage. All fools patronise. Wealthy
fools, especially, always rate coin above all
other advantages." She smiled bitterly.
'' Well, do we not all set the highest value
on that which we possess? does not the
singer think a good voice the grandest of

gifts ? does not the beauty consider a
beauty queen among women ? and wealth is
more powerful than beauty or music. I
will let the child play Lady Bountiful if she
likes, but I will rule her, too'

She felt faint with hunger, but she
would not spend her two francs. She had
had plenty of time during her long illness
to resolve on prudence in her future life,
and now she seated herself on the low stonewall
beside the river to plan her behaviour
to Pauline. She remembered how kind the
child had always been to animals and
birds. It was not likely she would be
sent hungry from her door. At first she
thought she would try to get installed as
housekeeper and companion to Madame
Depuis, but this idea was soon dismissed.
She knew nothing of her husband, who
might have friends in Brussels, and these
friends might at any moment find out her
past history. No, she would not become
actually dependent on Pauline, but she

would make her find some position where
she could live comfortably, and yet where
her antecedents need not be strictly looked
into.

Rich people are always believed," she
said bitterly ; " with her handsome clothes
and her pretty smile, the little fool is as
good a reference as I could have."

But she had sorely taxed her strength of
endurance ; sometimes she walked up and
down, but her steps grew slower and feebler;
when at last she saw Pauline and her maid
drive out of the station, she could scarcely
draw one foot after the other. As the
carriage passed her Else saw that it
was full of large parcels ; Pauline kissed
her hand to her, and then as she saw how
pale Mademoiselle Herkenne was, she
called to the driver to stop.

'' You must get out, Valerie," she said,
there is only room for one, and poor
Mademoiselle Elise looks ready to faint."

Valerie was tired, and she scowled as
she made room for the ex-governess.

CHAPTER XIX.

AN OLD Acquaintance.

pAULINE felt a little frightened as she
welcomed her visitor and followed
her into the house. She consulted edmund
about everything, and here she was
actually bringing a visitor home, an entire
stranger to him. But Mademoiselle Her-kennel
soon made her forget her uneasiness.

She glanced rapidly round Pauline's
sitting-room, and began to admire it, then
she walked up to a small table and fixed
her eyes on a photograph that seemed to
be enshrined there, with a bouquet of
spring flowers before it.

"What a handsome face!" Elise said,

is this really Monsieur Depuis ? " Then
answered by Pauline's radiant smile,
'' You are, indeed, a happy woman, my
Pauline," she said, " that face is full of
noble and tender thoughts, and I suppose
this husband worships you, eh ? Is he at
home?"

She had darted a quick glance at the
young wife while she pretended to examine
the portrait more closely, and she saw that
Pauline blushed.

Is he not handsome ? but I cannot tell
you how good he is," the girl said ; " is
it not wonderful that he should have married
me ?"

Mademoiselle Herkenne smiled.

"Well, no, that does not seem so very
wonderful ; you were a charming young
widow, and rich besides. I only wonder
you were left single for two years."

Pauline looked at her steadily.

I was not likely to see anyone during
my term of mourning."

She spoke with a pretty little assumption
of dignity, which became her, Mademoiselle
Herkenne thought; but all at once the stern
self-repression she had exerted relaxed, the
room went round with her and she caught
at the wall near her for support.

Pauline had never seen anyone turn so
ghastly white, and she shrieked with
terror and called " Yalrie."

She was too frightened to offer any
help, for it seemed to her that Mademoiselle
Elise was dying.

Valerie came in, but she was not pitiful ;
she thought that her mistress had acted
imprudently. She had never liked Mademoiselle
Herkenne, and here was the
woman fainting, and perhaps about to be
laid up in the house. However she helped
the visitor to an easy chair, and got water
and flung some in the set white face.

Get a glass of wine," said Pauline,
and then, seeing that Mademoiselle
Herkenne looked less death-like, she went

to her aud began to chafe her cold hands.

This had a quickly reviving effect ; perhaps
the action carried an assurance of
succour to the forlorn woman ; something
between a sigh and a sob escaped
her, and she pressed the little hands that
were rubbing hers.

*' A morsel of bread," she whispered,
*' before I taste the wine. I fear to take
it alone."

There was such a hungry look in her
eyes that Pauline felt shocked and
alarmed. She was more than ever sorry
for her old governess, but she hoped
Mademoiselle Herkenne would go away
before Edmund returned.

While Valerie brought biscuits and wine,
PauUne wondered whether she might
venture to question her visitor. But she
might have spared herself the doubt.

EUse Herkenne ate and drank all that
had been placed before her, and then she
turned to Pauline.

I consider you an old friend, my dear
child, and I shall treat you as one. Will
it weary you if I tell you the strait in
which I find myself?"

She saw that the girl was looking at the
pretty little clock, and her quick-witted
intuition told her that she had best be
brief. She went on without waiting for an
answer.

I have had a long illness and I have
spent all my savings ; can you help me
towards earning my living? I have not
even the means of taking a lodging."

Pauline was greatly troubled, her tender
heart told her that she ought to shelter
this poor friend under her own roof, and
yet she dared not venture on such a bold
step.

Mademoiselle Herkenne was reading her
face while she hesitated.

'' I could not stay here with you, dear,
even if you were kind enough to take me in.
I am too proud to make Monsieur Depuis',

acquaintance till I can dress more like a
lady. If you will only find me employment
you will do me a real service. I
want to be companion or housekeeper, and
I do not ask for high wages ;" she said this
scornfully, and her manner impressed
Pauline in the way she intended.

How absurd it seemed to hear this proud,
accomplished woman talk of taking wages.

'you must not talk so," the girl said,
eagerly, " we will soon find you a nice
home, and meantime, dear Mademoiselle,"
she whispered, and grew rosy with shame,
you will let me be your banker." She
had been feeling in her pocket, and she
slipped some of the Leopoldss she had left
there into her visitor's willing hand.

' You are very kind," said Mademoiselle
Herkenne, with so much dignity that
Pauline felt guilty, and altogether as if she
were once more in the school-room at
Malines. " This is a loan, PauHne ; a very
kind one, which you will help me to repay

VOL. I. X

BESIDE THE RIVER.

by finding me employment. I will leave
you now, for I shrink from meeting your
husband; he might think you were harbouring
a beggar."

He would be glad to see you ;" but
Pauline could not say the words heartily.
She knew that Edmund would not grudge
any kindness shown to her old governess ;
but she did not wish him to see Mademoiselle
Herkenne while she looked so forlorn
and shabby.

Where shall you go ?" she said, as her
visitor bent down and kissed her on both
cheeks  " you will let me have your
address ?"

'' You shall hear from me as soon as I
am suitably lodged and clothed. I regret
that I entered your house in this condition."
She wrapped her long cloak closely
round her and pulled down her veil, then
nodding, she added, " Do not fear, 1 will
not prove troublesome or a disgrace to
you, you good child. Au revoir

Pauline looked after her with timid admiration;
but she felt most heartily
relieved that there was no chance of a
meeting between her shabby visitor and
her husband.

X 2

CHAPTER XX.

MONSIEUR BACONFOY CALLS ON MADAME
BOULOTTE.

jl/rONSIEUR BACONFOY had been a
successful man, so far as regarded
getting on in life, and people said this
success had largely arisen from his wonderful
consistency. He had always been
upright and single-minded ; a good master,
a just magistrate, for he was one of the
echevins of Namur, a liberal host  a man
who never made professions or paid compliments
; but one who was a true friend
to rich and poor alike, and whose good
deeds far outnumbered the cynical utterances
ascribed to him. But lately the



gossips  for in Namur at the date of
the marriage of Edmund Depuis everyone
knew the business of everyone else  had
received a shock amid the joy with which
they welcomed such a fresh supply of food.
It had transpired that Monsieur Baconfoy,
who had not been known for years to indulge
himself with a holiday, had paid two
visits to a place called Eimay, a little 
own on the Mouse, where no
one ever went except for business, and
hardly ever for that.

Of course it is possible that Monsieur
Baconfoy has gone there for business;
but it is a very strange coincidence  very
strange indeed," Madame Henroteaux said,
over a cup of confidential coffee, to her
friend of the moment, " that he should
go to see the lady who so strangely
superseded all Madame Ferage's best
friends at the wedding, that widow-woman,
y)U know, who lives at Rimayy."

She was an intriguing widow, too,

Madame Henroteaux had heard, who
took in young men as lodgers in the
hope of finding a second husband among
them ; in fact, matters had gone sofar
between her and Edmund Depuis  so
Madame Henroteaux was given to understand
 that it had been deemed a measure
of policy to conciliate her by asking her to
the marriage, lest she should open her
mouth too freely. It was sad, Madame
Henroteaux went on to say, and it was
very inconsistent, that such a man as the
landlord of the Hotel la Grue, who had
gone to the verge of rudeness in his behaviour
to women in general, should have
singled out such a poor specimen of her
sex to visit. They had no proof, but of
course he went to Rimayy to see Madame
Boulotte.

A mother with seven unattractive,
unmarriageable daughters may be excused
some uncharitable imaginings in
such a case ; but for once gossip was

not unfounded, and came something near
the truth.

Monsieur Baconfoy had gone on for
years taking such amusement as came
in his way, he really derived much of
that inward peace which so helps towards
an outwardly contented demeanour, from a
comfortable sense of the superiority of his
own judgment to that of others ; this being
inevitable and not to be blamed in him,
seeing the vast consideration in which he
was held by his neighbours. This serenity
had at Edmund Depuis' wedding received
a blow. Madame Boulotte had disagreed
with him in words ; but that in itself was a
light matter ; but there had been something
impressive about her, and he had seen in
her eyes that look of subdued reproof,
and of superior wisdom which seemed
to say : " Go on in your ignorance and
conceit, oh, foolish man, you will have at
last to come to me for true wisdom."

We all know this pitying expression.

which is intended solely for our benefit, and
has usually the effect of making us restive
and self-assertive, but in Madame Boulotte's
case there had been extenuating
accompaniments. She had not only looked
very handsome, according to Monsieur
Baconfoy's taste, but she had also looked
as if she thought him very good-looking.
They had differed and disputed, she always
getting so much the best of the arguments
that he had felt greatly tickled between
amusement at her audacity and a certain
desire to conquer her contradiction. It
seemed to him that here was a woman
worth convincing, a woman of sense and
judgment, not a mere doll with a certain
number of speeches, which, like dresses, she
had got from others and kept ready for
use, and would use till they were worn
out, and then, probably, seeing that talk
could not be bought as a new gown could,
would have nothing to say at all; no,
Madame Boulotte was original.

Monsieur Baconfoy thought over these
things. He grew restless and discontented;
and about a month after the marriage, he
went over to Rimayy. Madame Boulotta had
asked him to call upon her if he ever
came into her neighbourhood. So he presented
himself at her house, and found
her at home. She made his visit pleasant,
though as her brother was present during
the interview, and was in a very sulky
mood, the talk was not so bright as
Baconfoy had expected. It had been
chiefly occupied by Vidonze's complaints
of the stupidity of the housekeeper his
sister had obtained for him, and he had to
return to Namur in a somewhat dissatisfied
mood. However, he promised himself
a better chance next time.

When the bright weather came, and the
birds were singing in every tree, the
flowers opening their sweet eyes here and
there among the limestone crags beside
the Meuse  the gay river itself no longer

ice-bound, but sparkling in merry ripples
in the sunshine. Monsieur Baconfoy had,
through the intervention of Madame
Depuis, found a clever housekeeper for
Vidonze, a perfect treasure of usefulness,
and now he tempted his fate, and travelling
to Rimayy he again presented himself at
the door of Madame Boulotte on the
pretext of inquiring whether she was satisfied
with his recommendation. Madame
Boulotte received him graciously, and he
thought she looked handsomer than ever.
He asked if her brother was at home.

*' Antoine is away, but I do not know
where he is, and his housekeeper to whom
I have written cannot tell me," she said,
and Baconfoy heaved a sigh of relief. The
fair widow told the story of her brother's
disappearance, and in the course of this
story there came naturally the mention of
Jeanne Lahaye.

My brother had an idea, a very foolish
idea," said Madame Boulotte, "that Jeanne

cared for your cousin Edmund ; but as I
told him. Monsieur Depuis had no thought
of Jeanne, he used to row down to Madame
Dehmoj's cottage for the sake of exercise."

"Did he go often ?" asked Baconfoy.

A sudden gloom fell on him. He had
not forgotten Depuis' mysterious sadness
just before his engagement to Madame
Ferage. He had had strong suspicions
about Jeanne. He remembered many little
things which he had thought trivial then,
and it seemed most likely that Yidonze
had been right in his " foolish idea."

He went two or three times a week, and
on Sundays always," said Madame Boulotte.

And you went with him sometimes,
Madame ; it must have been charming for
him," said Baconfoy, enviously.

"No, oh no; I " Madame Boulotte

hesitated, for she remembered that Edmund
had never asked for her company in his
boat, " I am not fond of the water, unless,
indeed, on a steamer."

Is this girl pretty ?" he asked.

Madame Boulotte shrugged her shoulders
and smiled.

"It is the very strangest thing," she
said, " I have looked at Jeanne again and
again. She is a tall, well-grown girl, with
a frank, bright face, but the idea of beauty
never came into my head in connection
with her, and yet Antoine says Jeanne is
perfectly beautiful. However, he has
strange taste. He raves about that housekeeper
you found for him, and really she
is not good-looking."

I have never seen her," he said ; " I
took her on trust from Madame Depuis."

Monsieur Baconfoy sat thinking. At
last he said :

Do you think this Jeanne is fond of
your brother ?"

Madame Boulotte's nose wrinkled with
the peculiar expression it wore when she
was thwarted.

Well, no, I think not; Antoine seemed

troubled by her coldness, and I have been
told the girl went away to avoid him ; that
seems hardly likely ; but certainly Antoine
told me that it would be everything for
him if he could make Jeanne believe in
Edmund's marriage, and now he says he
must keep on a housekeeper as he is not
likely to marry at present. But it is
absurd to suppose that Jeanne has refused
Antoine."

Why is it absurd, Madame, if I maybe
permitted the question ?"

Madame Boulotte felt perplexed. The
situation was embarrassing. It would
have been easy to say that as she had been
Edmund's friend and confidant he would
certainly have spoken to her of his love
for Jeanne Lahaye if there had been any
love between these two. But, she scarcely
knew why, she did not wish to dwell
upon her own extreme intimacy with Monsieur
Baconfoy's cousin.

'soh," she said, indifferently, ' Jeanne

Lahaye has no money. Edmund could
never have thought of her, and she was
too well brought up to care for him unless
he asked her."

Monsieur Baconfoy looked sarcastic.

Madame," he said, politely, " you are
more cynical than I am said to be. I can
quite fancy that two young fools may put
love before money."

Madame Boulotte turned on him sharply.

'what do you mean, Monsieur ?" she
said, " I thought Monsieur Depuis had
made a love-marriage."

Baconfoy leaned back in his chair and
gave vent to one of his low tormenting
laughs.

Heaven forbid that it should be anything
else, my dear Madame. We all know
that love is the great sweetening of
marriage, but do you allow a man only
one love in a life-time. Bah ! my cousin
may have flirted with the beautiful Jeanne,
but then he had not seen his lovely Pauline.

I give you my word, Madame,
Edraond and his sweet bride remind me
of a pair of cooing turtle doves."

Madame Boulotte sat stiffly upright, and
looked like an offended Juno.

"Bon, Monsieur; that is then your
candid and deliberate opinion of the use of
our sex, and of the position woman holds
in the lives of men. We are in your eyes
only a pastime no longer desired, or
remembered even, when place and circumstances
change. I have a better opinion
of your cousin. Monsieur, than to suppose
that he could change so easily, his heart is
not made of such elastic material as you
suppose."

Her voice trembled as if tears were kept
back by a strong effort, and Bacon foy felt
uneasy.

"Ah, Madame, forgive me if I have
said anything to displease you. I have
an awkward way of putting things. I have
never seen this Mademoiselle Jeanne, I

cannot tell whether she is a person likely
to inspire a grande passion or not. I must
confess," he looked slily at the widow, "I
am not an admirer of unfledged charms,
and so I suppose I forgot that they maybe
attractive to others. But do you not
think, Madame, that it might be jealousy
on the part of your brother that prompted
him to say what you have told me ?"

A faint blush had risen on the widow's
cheeks, and she no longer sat stifle
upright, her combativeness was quelled.

I will tell you what my brother said,
and then you may judge for yourself.
Monsieur. Antoine wished to have my
letter of invitation to the wedding, so that
he might show it to Jeanne Lahaye ; he said
there would be no chance of her listening to
him unless she had proof of the marriage
of Edmund Depuis."

Monsieur Baconfoy did not answer, he
lay back in his chair thinking. In his
youth he had loved, and his love had proved

false, and since then he had gone on
through life hardening himself against
all women; with an ever-present sadness
in his eyes which no one understood.
For how many years had he
treasured the memory of his false fair
love ! He wondered, if Edmund had really
forgotten Jeanne Lahaye, how would it
be when they met again? Now that he
saw more of Pauline, it seemed to him
that life must be sometimes dull with her,
pretty and loving as she was.

Madame," the look of surprise in
Madame Boulotte's eyes made him aware
of his inattention, " I beg your pardon, but
your words set me thinking. May I ask
you what Mademoiselle Jeanne said when
your brother showed her this invitation to
Edmund's wedding."

That is just what I do not know,"
there was a vexed tone in her voice, '' in
fact, I am not sure that she ever saw it.
When Antoine came back he evaded my

VOL. I. Y

question on one pretence and another ;
and not long after he went away. But,
Monsieur, I went to the cottage and finding
it closed I drove on to the village and
made inquiries, and I have every reason to
suppose that Antoine never had the chance
of seeing Jeanne again. I was told she
left her home the day after her grandmother's
funeral  it is impossible to speak
to my brother about her  or even to write
to him for I do not know where he is.

And you do not know where the girl
is gone, perhaps he has followed her."

Madame Boulotte pursed up her hips
mysteriously.

'' I promised Monsieur Hallez I would not
gossip, but I am sure that my brother does
not know where Jeanne is, I fear he is
wasting his time in seeking for her  but
that is quite another matter  willingly I
do not think she would be his wife."

Baconfoy gave a low whistle.

1 hope she will stay away," he said,

gravely, " regrets are always bad things,
and it is possible that Mam'zelle Jeanne
Lahaye may be a regret of my cousin
Edmund's. For his sake I hope she will
keep away from this part of the country."

Madame Boulotte laughed incredulously,
You seem to forget one thing, Monsieur,"
she said, " is it not quite possible that your
cousin may know nothing of Jeanne's preference
for him if it exists, and that she,
when the news of his marriage reaches her
ears, will at once resign herself to circumstances.
She will come back to the cottage,
and she will forget she ever refused Antoine
; and who knows but she will marry
him. And we must also forget that she ever
was so indiscreet as to care for a man who
did not want to marry her ; that is to say if
she ever did care for Edmund."

'' Madame, you are an oracle," and
Baconfoy bowed with a cynical smile, " I
doubt not all will come to pass as you say,"
But in his heart he felt troubled for

Y 2

Edmund's happiness. He remembered that
Madame Boulotte had begun by saying
Jeanne would not five her love unsought,
and he resolved to pay a visit to his cousin
as soon as he returned to Namur. '* Then,
Madame," he said, '' i may tell Madame
Depuis that her jnvtegee has turned out a
prize. She was, it seems, Pauline's governess
in her youth, but illness and trouble
have robbed her of her strength and skill
in teaching. She prefers a humbler and
more lucrative employment ; your brother
I hear has been very liberal to her."

Madame Boulotte smiled.

Yes, for the moment she is a perfect
fad of Antoine's, he says she is full of ideas
she is enterprising as well as ingenious
by her advice he talks of extending his
business, and of opening an establishment
at Spa or some other summer resort."

Baconfoy laughed.

Who knows, Madame  perhaps this
Mademoiselle Herkenne may settle him

altogether, and put Mademoiselle Jeanne
out of his thoughts, * a bird in the hand '
you know." He looked teasing at the
widow.

Madame Boulotte again stiffened herself .

"No, Monsieur;" she said haughtily,
"my brother is eccentric and unsettled, but
he is my brother, and in our family we do
not marry those in our employment." Then
conscious that she had been betrayed into
unusual vehemence. " There is no chance
of that," she said gently, " she is much
older than Antoine, and is wholly wrapped
up in her business, she is as hard and cold
as  as a man is. No, unless I am mistaken,
Mademoiselle Herkenne has lived her life
already, she only troubles herself about her
daily bread."

Baconfoy smiled ; he could not see the
force of Madame Boulotte's logic; but ashe
did not wish his last words to be a
contradiction, he looked at her with tender
reproach.

** ' Hard and cold as a man;' Madame, is
not that a cruel verdict? The pine-apple hasa
rougher skin, and yet it has a more intense
flavour than the rosy, downy peach, is it
not so ? You have taught me to believe
that you see below the surface."

He had risen, and he heaved a real sigh
from his capacious chest as he stood before
her.

She gave a quick glance to see if he
were in earnest, and then a bright flush
flew into her face and her lips quivered.

Thank you, Monsieur, I ought to have
said there are exceptions; but then,"
so sweet a smile curved her handsome
mouth that it took all platitude from her
words, ' are not those to whom one speaks
always the exceptions ?"

Baconfoy bent down and kissed her
dimpled hand ; then feeling he was on
dangerous ground, he took a reverential
farewell, claiming leave soon to repeat his
visit.

CHAPTER XXI.

MONSIEUR BACONFOY GOSSIPS.

nne year looks bright and pleasant.
Edmund and his wife have made their
garden fragrant and gay with flowers ; but
Edmund's work near Namur is ended for
the present, and Pauline urges him to give
up his profession and travel. This has
been the wish of his heart for years past.
He has some idea of painting, and has
always longed to be an artist, and PauUne
thinks what a loss the world will sustain if
such a genius as Edmund's ties itself down
to a mere mechanical occupation, instead of
soaring into a congenial atmosphere. So
that the young couple have almost decided

BESIDE THE EIVEE.

when summer comes to take a southern
flight, and perhaps to leave Namur altogether.


They were planning this when Monsieur
Baconfoy was announced, and Pauline
eagerly began to unfold their plans to him.

"Why wait for summer ?" he said, " weare
having better weather now than we
often have in summer, and the country
looks lovely. 1 have just come back from
the country."

Where have you been ?" said Edmund,
I did not know you had left Namur."

Baconfoy gave one of his genial, hearty
laughs, and glanced from his cousin to
Madame Depuis, who looked exquisitely
pretty dressed in white, as she sat leaning
back in a low chair near the window.

Ma foi ! you two are so wrapped up
in one another," he said, " that a poor insignificant
atom like me takes no place in
your lives. I have been away a week."

Tell us where you have been." Pauline

smiled, and then shaking her head at her
husband ; " Is it really so long since you
went to see our good cousin ?" she said.

Edmund had turned away as his cousin
spoke ; he was busily searching through a
portfolio, bending so low that his face was
hidden.

Where have you been ?" he said, without
looking up.

Pauline's eyes, however, were fixed on
Monsieur Baconfoy while she waited for
his answer, and to her surprise she saw a
flush rise on his face while his eyes had an
embarrassed expression.

I went to Rim ay," he looked towards
Edmund, *' I  I had business there."

Edmund raised himself suddenly, and
then, as if he resisted an impulse, bent
down again over the portfolio. Bacon-soy
noticed the movement ; but Pauline was
sitting with her back to her husband.

To Rimayy !" then she said playfully,
"I hope you went to make your peace with

Madame Boulotte ; she told me you were
a fine creature, spoiled by false ideas."

Baconfoy threw his head back and
laughed.

I like that," he said. '' Of course I
went to see Madame Boulotte, and I can
return her compliments; she is undoubtedly
a fine creature."

Edmund looked up at his cousin with
an amused face.

No, no, Jules," he said, " I cannot
allow you to admire Madame Boulotte ;
you used to call her very hard names, if I
remember rightly, and not so long ago
either."

Baconfoy's broad face had became
almost purple.

"Well, well," he said, laughing, "I
suppose we all make mistakes, and I certainly
was wrong if I said that Madame
Boulotte was anything but a charming
woman. You see," he said, as if his
change of opinion needed excuse, " this

was not my first visit to Rimayy, and I have
had time to learn that a woman is different
in her own house and shows to much
greater advantage there."

Pauline's eyes beamed with delight.

Dear cousin Jules," she said, mischievously,
" do you not think she would 
still greater advantage at the Hotel la
Grue  how nice it would be if you brought
her there."

Baconfoy shook his head.

I thank you, my pretty cousin ; but I
am not fitted for the bird-cage state of
existence. You two are such a pair of lovers"
he looked at Edmund, but he had again
turned away  " that you fancy everyone
else would be happier in living your life ;
but I prefer my pipe and my liberty."

Then you have no right to go to
Rimayy; you are  who knows  stealing
poor Madame Boulotte's heart from her
without any intention of giving your own
in exchange. Ah, it is a cruel game, my

cousin." She had begun mockingly, but
as she ended there was a pathetic ring in
her voice that struck Baconfoy, and
checked his laughter.

Well," he looked keenly at her, ''I do
not think you need fidget yourself about
Madame Boulotte, it seems to me I am not
the first admirer she has had, and has, by
many, and I am far too modest to suppose I
am the most attractive among them ; but I
must be going  can I do any communications
for you in Namur, my fair cousin ?"
he shook her hand warmly, " you seem sofar
away from us here."

** I am coming with you'' said Edmund ;
he closed the portfolio and came forward,
' I have been wanting to say all sorts of
things, but you and Pauline have managed
to keep all the talk to yourselves."

Stay," said Baconfoy, " I must tell
you cousin Pauline that Monsieur Vidonze
finds your protegee all he could wish."
Pauline clapped her hands, " I am so very

glad," she said, ''I was so very anxious
about poor Mademoiselle Herkenne."

The pretty little white villa with its
climbing roses and cool, large leaved
creepers lay beside the Meuse ; but the
cousins after a while left the road beside the
river, and took a turning which soon led
them into the town ; they crossed a broad
street with pretty shop windows on each
side, and the aspect of bright freshness 
that special characteristic of Belgian cities.
Monsieur Baconfoy's hat seemed to have
a hard time of it, judging by its perpetual
movement off and on his head, as each
moment he encountered some acquaintance
or friend. Now a diligence came clattering
along, bells tinkling, whip cracking,
and passed them where the street widened
at its juncture with another ; on the right
with a few trees in front of it was the
entrance to the courtyard of the Hotel la
Grue, and the diligence had just set down
a passenger there.

The courtyard was full of light ; sunshine
streamed through a glass roof overhead,
up the white walls the graceful
climbing plants were in full beauty, while
tall palms and ferns filled the corners with
their picturesque fronds, and made a
background for brilliant pot flowers.

Coming in, my boy ? that is good to
see," Baconfoy rubbed his hands joyfully, as
Edmund turned into the courtyard, " like
old times ; come into the bureau, we shall
be quieter."

He went into a low room beyond the
pretty open air parlour on the right.

Edmund hesitated, he did not quite know
to what he might have to listen, and he
wished to be free to go away as suddenly
as he chose.

But Baconfoy was choosing him one of
his best cigars, and presently he came
to the door of the bureau with it in his
hand.

Come along in, Edmund," he said, "I

have a budget of Rimayy nevis for you, and
we shall be quieter in here."

Edmund went in silently and against his
will ; he wished he had not come out with
Jules. He wished too that his cousin had
stayed at home at Namur. By some subtle
magic the news of this journey to Rimayy
had disturbed the quiet tenor of Edmund's
life; he was growing used to a sort of
passive happiness, and now, at the words
'' news from Rimayy," this content, it was
scarcely happiness, suddenly shrivelled
up like a night blossom at the approach
of daylight. But he felt that his cynical
cousin's eyes were upon him.

*' Well, how are all the good people of
Rimayy?" he said carelessly, "to begin
with, how is Madame Boulotte?"

Baconfoy puffed out a cloud of smoke.

"She is quite well, I said so  handsomer
than ever."

You still think her handsome then ? "

Ma foi, what else can I think ? I

suppose no one can deny it. She is, however,
a little anxious about her brother,"
he blew away the smoke of his cigar
and looked sharply at Depuis.

'what is the matter?" Edmund still
spoke indifferently.

Well, no one knows what has become
of the fellow. He was with his sister,
doing nothing seemingly, then he came
here and engaged his housekeeper; and
then all at once he disappeared. Madame
Boulotte thought he had gone back to
Namur, but all the letters she wrote to him
have been sent back by Mademoiselle
Herkenne, and Madame can get no tidings."

Edmund smoked on in silence.

He was always a vagabond," he said
at last, " but I thought  I fancied  " he
stopped abruptly.

'' You thought he was going to marry ?
Yes, Madame Boulotte says a marriage
had been arranged by Madame Delimoy

before her death between Vidonze and
Mademoiselle Lahaye."

Edmund took his cigar from his lips and
stared at his cousin.

Do you mean, Jules, that my old friend
Madame Delimoy is dead, and that no one
has told me of it ?" Edmund stood in a
sort of dream, at that moment he felt that
Madame Delimoy had been a part of the
sweet bright life of those happy months
beside the Meuse. " What then has become
of  of Jeanne?" He had not said the
name for months, and it cost him an effort
to say it.

"Ah ! there is the mystery. When
Madame Boulotte wished to call on Mademoiselle
Jeanne after the funeral, Vidonze
said she had gone to some friends, and he
would give his sister notice of her
return : so when Vidonze disappeared too,
Madame Boulotte drove out to call on her
promised sister-in-law, thinking she might
hear tidings of Antoine, and she found the

VOL. I. z

cottage beside the river deserted ; and she
learned that Mademoiselle Jeanne had
never come back, and that no one knew
here she was."

Edmund flung down his cigar and
started up.

"Vidonze has done this. Don't you
see that he has managed it all," he said impatiently.
'' What has the villian done
with her ? Do you mean to tell me, Jules,
that a girl has disappeared in this way
and no one has stirred a step to find her ?"

Baconfoy left off smoking and indulged
himself in a laugh ; not for long, however
; his young cousin's face looked
threatening.

'' I see marriage has not calmed your
impulsiveness, cousin. I fancy all has been
done that can be done, but only time can
solve the mystery. A few days after
her discovery, Madame Boulotte met the
priest, Monsieur Hallez, who she thought
was in Mam'zelle Jeanne's confidence, and

questioned him; he said the young lady
was safe, and that she had gone away
to avoid Antoine Vidonze, but he declined
to give any further explanation."

"He is the Cure," said Edmund gloomily.

Yes, I fancy so ; but of course Madame
Boulotte's anxiety is more for her brother
than for the girl. She says his business
will go to ruin while he is running over
the country, however clever the new housekeeper
may be."

Curse him ! " said Edmund, " his sister
must be a fool to be anxious about him,
it is part of the business of a photographer
to travel."

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

London : Printed by A. Schuke, 13, Poland Street.

\

VOL. II.

A TALE

BY

KATHARINE S. MACQUOID

AUTHOR OF

 u

"PATTY, "DIANE,
IN THE SWEET SPRING TIME,'
&c, &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1881.

All rights reserved.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/besiderivertale02macq

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

REAPING.

1IT0NSIEUR BACONFOY was in a singularly
irritable state after his cousin's
departure. He walked down to his stables ;
and soon shouts for Floris and Emile and
Jean and Philippe resounded through the
yard, and there was the lusty host scolding
his helpers and a stray coachman
most vociferously. Two horses, he vowed,
had been over-driven ; on another he
pointed out a galled shoulder ; and then
plunging about he showed, now here
now there, that various points of order
vol. ir. b

had been neglected in his absence, gesticulating
angrily and letting his sonorous
voice out with a will on these matters 
small sins, which on ordinary occasions
would only have drawn down a fatherly,
if somewhat sarcastic, reproof on the
offender, seemed to-day magnified into
heinous faults.

All at once he turned away, and retreated
to the solitude of his bureau. Arrived
there he lit his largest pipe, and forced
himself to smoke it till some amount of
calm had revisited his brain.

61 Ma foi" he smiled genially, "they
have got a good fright, it will keep them
up to the mark for months to come;" then
after a pause he said to himself :

Edmund is a young fool. No man
should let a woman into his life unless she
can have him all to herself. I have an
idea that it was a good deal her own
seeking, but I am sorry for the future of
that silly little Pauline  and I  I am a

gossiping old fool  that widow is a snare
to me."

Meanwhile Edraond had walked away,
not towards home, but in another direction,
beside the Meuse. It seemed to him
that he had suddenly roused from
sleep.

Before his marriage, and after it, he had
accustomed himself to stifle his dissatisfied
longings by the remembrance that Jeanne
Lahaye was going to marry Yidonze. And
he had almost grown contented with his
lot  only yesterday as he looked at Pauline
he had thought no man could wish for a
prettier, daintier wife than she was; always
so loving, sweet-tempered and docile, it was
hard to expect her to be other than she was.
He had tried to persuade himself that his
nature was exacting, and that no one
could have suited him better than Pauline
did.

I am an ungrateful beggar," he had
said, " perfection even would not content

b 2

me. It is my own fault that I am not
quite happy  I seek a better which is not
to be found."

So far indeed he had tried to seem quite
happy, though he was not always in bright
spirits. Pauline had been as blithe as a bird
in her newly-found joy ; her husband's occasional
fits of thought seemed to her a
part of the wonderful genius which she considered
he possessed, and she was wrapt
in a dream of ecstatic worship, scarcely believing
that such joy could really be hers.
Sometimesaremembranceof Edmund's confession
swept over her like a chill breeze,
but the sight of her husband's smile was
enough to banish this.

If he seems happy now, when I have
not had time to show him how fondly I
love him, what will he be when the old
love has completely faded from his mind,
and he sees how devoted my life is to him ?"

Since their marriage they had been
almost constantly together, but to-day

evening came, and yet Edmund had not
returned from his walk.

Pauline grew anxious ; then she pouted a
little, and thought harshly of Monsieur
Baconfoy ; and at last she began quietly to
cry.

She had read that some men after the
first few weeks of married life return to
their bachelor friends and their bachelor
habits, but she had not thought Edmund
would do this.

And yet why should he not ?" she
thought sadly, " it has always seemed impossible
that I, so unworthy of him, could
be sufficient for him, could even win his
love, but it will be so hard to give it up.
Oh, I am miserable ; why did he marry me,
if he meant to tire of me so soon ?"

The poor little woman smiled at her
own inconsistency, for she knew that she
would not give up these precious weeks of
happiness, even should she be called on to
pay for them by years of pain. She dried

her eyes, called herself a goose, and then
sat down to work at a new smoking cap
for her adored husband.

She determined to be very calm and
self-restrained when he came in ; there
should be nothing to vex him in her
manner; she would not let him think she
minded his long absence.

The hours lagged on. At last she heard
Edmund's step coming through the little
garden. Slowly he came, without his
glad briskness of return ; Pauline listened
full of fear; he was ill perhaps  the sudden
alarm scattered her enforced calm to the
winds, her resolution was forgotten, she
flew to the door and saw her husband's
grave, pale face.

Oh, Edmund darling, what is it, are
you ill ? " she flung her arms round his
neck. " I have been so frightened, what
can have been happening, tell me quickly,
dearest ?"

He put her a little away, but he did not

smile. It seemed to Pauline as if some
invisible barrier suddenly stood between
her and her husband.

Nothing has happened," his voice had
a dry, repressive tone which she had never
heard before, " but I must really ask you
not to alarm yourself so unnecessarily,
you know I am fond of a long walk, and I
have taken one, that is all."

Then he gave a forced smile, and
sat down to read a book that lay
on the table at the further end of the
room. If Pauline had had a franker,
braver nature, it would have been better
for her and for Edmund; but timidity conquered
other feelings ; she went and sat
down beyond the range of the lamplight,
and cried softly to herself.

Yes, it was plain to her. That which
she had dreaded, without believing in it,
had really happened ; Edmund had already
tired of her affection.

Her husband was really too wretched to

think of anyone but himself. Pauline and
her feelings and her rights, were swept
away in the terrible fact that had taken
possession of his soul.

Through the hurrying sweep of sorrow
and anger that shook him, he saw two
things clearly  Jeanne was free, and she
did not love Antoine Yidonze, and
Madame Delimoy was dead. He did not
at once leap to the conclusion that Jeanne
loved him ; she could not have written that
formal little reply to the outpouring of his
deepest, truest love, if she had loved him
as he loved her; but it was maddening to
know that she was free, able to give herself
to whom she would without the
necessary consent of anyone.

He had walked out without heeding where
he went, seeing only Jeanne's noble, frank
face ; and as he called up her singleness of
purpose and direct fearless truth, he
wondered more and more at his own perverse
blindness. Yes, he had been blind,

and an idiot also ; why was it necessary
because Jeanne refused him and did not
seem touched by his love, that she must
marry Antoine Vidonze ? What a low-toned,
common view he had taken of her
character ! Rather, like unmanned snow,
like a fresh snowdrop, had she out
of very innocence shrunk from the
warmth of his own love, unable to comprehend
it, and therefore afraid of its
utterance ; and, besides, who could tell in
so unselfish a nature how far her refusal
might have been a sacrifice for Madame
Delimoy ?

And now that this news had reached
him  reached him ! say rather had penetrated
through him till every fibre seemed
to quiver with the anguish it had brought
he was a slave, not free even to think of
Jeanne with thoughts of love ; sinful if he
indulged in one vain desire for her love.
And yet I love her, I love her," he
said wildly, and then he had hurried along

as if striving to put distance between himself
and his desires.

How sweet the hardest drudgery would
have been if it had been done for Jeanne !
She would have upheld him and ennobled
him ; he could have poured all his cares, all
his hopes and aspirations, into her bosom,
sure, not of the mere echo of sympathy
and admiring approval, but of some fresh
idea, some fresh light to help him in all.
Ah, what must the love of Jeanne be
when it was really won ! But Edmund's
better nature did not quite leave him.
After a while he controlled himself and
came home.

He could not read, and he looked
up from his book by way of refuge
from the temptation of disgust that
had followed him even into his wife's
presence. Every object on which his eyes
rested made his state yet more bitter ;
personal luxuries, comforts, elegancies
to which he had never been accustomed,

but which Pauline's lavish affection had
bestowed on him  he was surrounded by
her gifts, and he turned away almost with
loathing and covered his eyes with his hand.
At last by a mighty effort against
himself, he looked across at the small
shrinking figure at the farthest end of the
room, sitting in the shadow of the window
curtains. As he looked he saw her shoulders
heave as if she too were struggling with
some secret sorrow. By degrees, for it
took time to disentangle thought from the
self-absorption of all these hours, he remembered
the daily life of these two months.
This little shrinking creature was his wife,
she had certainly done nothing to vex him,
except  ah, why had he never clearly seen
this as a fault till this moment, when
it forced itself as it were side by side with
Jeanne's maidenly reserve  except in the
willingness she had expressed to give
him her love, to marry him, though he only
offered her friendship ?

BESIDE THE RfVEK.

The small bending figure seemed to be
conscious that it was watched ; it shrank
still further back into the shadow of the
curtained bow-window, as if it wished to
hide the fact of its presence.

Edmund was touched, all the man in him
rose up in protest against this mute reproach.
This poor little woman, whose
only fault had been that she loved him
too unselfishly  he must at least try to
show her gratitude.

He rose and crossed over to where she
was sitting, but Pauline, anxious to hide
the tears in which she was bathed, turned
yet more away.

Edmund paused before her, but the
averted face did not look up at him.

He thought Pauline was sulky, and he
took a book from a small table near her, as
if that was what he had come to seek, and
went back to the other end of the room.

CHAPTER II.

THE HOUSEKEEPER OF ANTOINE VIDONZE.

Monsieur BACONFOY continued
-*'-*" to be so troubled in mind about
the future happiness of his young cousins
that at last he flung away his cigar and
put on his hat.

I will go and look at Vidonze's housekeeper
and see what I think. My friend at
Rimayy may not be the best judge in such
a matter, and if Vidonze likes the woman
he is certainly a man to please himself
without studying anyone."

The photographer's shop was well placed,
a little out of the busy thoroughfare; well
placed and well fitted also with a comfortable

house attached, but part of this had
been let to a tenant before Vidonze took
the business.

Baconfoy stood in the entrance passage
looking at the photographs hanging there,
and also glancing through the glass
door into the little shop. Seeing no one
there, he went up the well-carpeted stairs,
and then through a double glass door
into a well-furnished ante-room, with heavy
dark velvet curtains, and dark mulberry
coloured walls, on which hung a number of
photographs of all kinds. On one side, ina
remarkable and ancient brass frame hung
an excellent coloured likeness of Madame
Boulotte, which Baconfoy looked at
admiringly. But the views on the walls
surprised him ; he had not given Yidonze
credit for so much taste as the choice of
those views evinced ; however he had not
come only to look at photographs,
and he glanced through an open door
beyond. A tall graceful woman stood

bending over a portfolio, and her black
dress had a style about it that at once
caught his attention.

He saw too that she had an abundance
of dark hair coiled round and round in a
knot behind her head. His curiosity was
roused to see the face belonging to this
shapely head and striking figure, so he
went into the inner room and inquired for
Monsieur Vidonze.

Mademoiselle Herkenne did not move
till he spoke, then she closed the folio she
was searching, came forward and bowed
to Monsieur Baconfoy.

Monsieur Yidonze is absent, Monsieur,"
she said, " can I do any business
or take any message for him?"

No, thank you," then to himself, he
added " Viable ! What a face ! Madame
Boulotte is right, there is no beauty to
tempt Yidonze in that sallow skin; her
figure is no doubt perfect. And yet this
woman has something remarkable in her

face, she has a will for certain. I never
saw such a jawbone."

The dark closely set eyes with their long
lashes were searching his face, for, although
he had not announced himself, Mademoiselle
Herkenne knew well to whom she was
speaking. "Will Monsieur not leave his
name?" she said politely.

You can say Monsieur Baconfoy of
the Grue came to see him, but not on any
particular business," and then he looked
keenly at her while she thanked him.

He bowed, said good morning, and then
turning back, " Do you know, Mademoiselle,
by chance the price of that portrait ?"
and he nodded towards the photograph of
Madame Boulotte ; he spoke carelessly, but
he was looking earnestly at her, and not at
the portrait.

I do not know, Monsieur. I do not
think it is for sale, it is the portrait of a
relative of Monsieur Vidonze; " her eyes
had dropped under his scrutiny, but at

this she looked again so very hard at
Baconfoy that the big man began to blush.

He turned away impetuously.

Good day, Mademoiselle ; be good
enough to tell Yidonze to let me know when
he comes back. I thought he might have
returned."

He went downstairs baffled and perplexed
; the future redmond and Pauline
was forgotten in the curiosity he felt about
the photographer's menagerie. How sharp
she had been to see that he was studying
her, and to turn the subject from herself?
What could have brought that kind of
woman to such a pass as this ?" he thought.
Vidonze might do worse than marry her ;
she is just the capable kind of woman who
would do everything for a man, and never
ask for a fraction of help ; pity she isn't
a man outright, she would have distinguished
herself. I don't like a face though
that I cannot read off-hand ; she looks like
a sphinx."

VOL. II. c

Mademoiselle Herkenne had also been
struck by the appearance and manner of
her visitor. Pauline had described him,
and had also confided to her old governess
her project for marrying him to Madame
Boulotte, and Mademoiselle Herkenne had
gravely warned the young wife against
match-making. For spite of the miserable
poverty out of which she had appealed to
Pauline, her assured manner and her self-reliance
quickly restored Madame Depuis'
fear of her.

Match-making never prospers," she
had said to Pauline.

Mademoiselle Herkenne was always grave
when alone, but now as she went back to her
folio and finished sorting some of the last
views which Vidonze had taken in the
Ardennes, her thin lips parted in a genuine
smile.

That is a man," she thought, " to
whom I could have been very useful, and
he is a man to be trusted, and richer than

Antoine Vidonze  but then  " she paused,
drew down the flaps of the folio, tied the
strings, and stood thinking. " He is not
Antoine Vidonze however."

She looked sadder than ever as she said
this; and then she went out into the passage,
and into a room over the workshop,
built out in the yard behind it. This was
the bedroom of her employer. She expected
Monsieur Vidonze this evening, and
she went to see if the servant had got his
room ready.

The room was simply furnished, except
that over the bed there was a gorgeous
gilt frame with a red velvet mount, and in
it was the coloured photograph of a young
girl. Mademoiselle Herkenne looked at
this intently.

She is not pretty," she said, " not half
so pretty as poor little Pauline is, and yet
there is something in her face that poor
Pauline could never have."

It was a portrait of Jeanne Lahaye,

o 2

taken by Vidonze a year ago, and coloured
into an excellent likeness. As Mademoiselle
Herkenne stood gazing at the picture there
was a very singular contrast between the
two faces so nearly opposite one another.

In both there was power and a certain
fearlessness, but as you looked at Jeanne's
face you forgot this power in its noble
truthfulness and directness of expression.
There was equal strength in Elise
Herkenne's face, but the eves looked
as if they held secrets which they meant
to keep to themselves.

For the moment she had gone back to the
old dreamy school-room days, and stood,
her long brown hands clasped together
and her well-placed head a little on one
side. When she turned from the picture
her face was suffused as if by a blush of
shame, but her dark eyes had kindled into
an animation they rarely showed.

She closed the door behind her, and in

the passage, hurrying towards her, was
the servant of the house.

Via Monsieur," she said, pointing
over her shoulder, " he has come already,
and you said dinner was to be at six.
What is to be done ?" This servant, Lambertine,
did not approve of the introduction
of a housekeeper.

Mademoiselle Herkenne drew herself up
and frowned at the servant's complaining
tone, " Go your way, Lambertine, and
never trouble about what does not concern
you. Monsieur Yidonze will dine at the
hotel."

Just then Yidonze appeared at the end
of the passage. He looked taller and
redder than ever, his hair and whiskers
seemed to glow with colour.

He nodded, and smiling showed his
white teeth at the sight of his housekeeper,
but she went forward and shook
hands with her employer.

"Will you come and look at your

letters, they are all here, and the cards and
names of those who have called in your
absence."

She went on to the room where
Baconfoy had seen her, and Yidonze
followed, admiring the graceful lines of
her supple figure and the pose of her
head as she walked. She had made life
much more comfortable than he had ever
known it. She never found fault or gave
advice gratis, as his sister did, but she
smoothed all obstacles out of his way, and
thus saved both his time and his temper.
The snarl which used to show his red gums
far above the long narrow white teeth,
had scarcely shown itself on Yidonze's face
since the coming of Mam'zelle Hereunto
his house. It was pleasant too to find a
ready listener when he returned from his
journeys, full of sympathy for his successor
disappointment. There was an effusiveness
in his thanks as he took the packet of
letters she handed him, that quickened

Mademoiselle Herkenne's pulses this
evening.

Baconfoy has called, has he ? I wonder
what he wants. I must see him, he is a
man whose advice I can rely on ; but you
were quite right not to say you expected
me. I can't bear people to discuss my
affairs, but I am sure I need not say this
to you, Mademoiselle."

He flung himself into a chair with his
letters, and took no more notice of his
housekeeper.

She waited an instant, and then frowning
till her wavy eye-brows seemed to stand
erect as they met, she retreated to her
own den, a pretty little room at the back
of the house.

I am a fool to be angry," she said to
herself. " Surely I ought to know by this
time that a man only follows his nature
when he thinks of himself first ; when he
has satisfied his curiosity with his letters

and his appetite with his dinner, then he
will have time to consider me."

But the displeased look did not leave
her face. She took up a book and tried
to read, but she could not get her thoughts
away from Antoine Yidonze. She had
never cared for either reading or needlework,
and now that she had no pianoforte,
her sole resource lay in active, practical
work ; retrospect was not an employment
that brought pleasure to Mademoiselle Her-kennel.
She cared only to live in the actual
present, and it was this faculty of ready-wickedness
and prompt action that made
her services so invaluable to the photographer.


There came a tap at her door, and Lambertine
opened it ; the woman had a broad,
unpleasant smile.

The master improperly angry, Mam'zelle ;
he rang to know when dinner would come,
and when I said it was ordered at six, he

swore roundly and told me to bring it at
once. Well, Mam'zelle," she planted her
knuckles on her hips, and stood firmly,
her feet some way apart. " What could I
do, there is soup, ma foi, soup is always
ready, but the sweetbread, the trout and
duck, it is impossible to hurry any of them.
I could not undertake it, and I said so
to the master."

Everyone knows that," said Mademoiselle
Herkenne, "and as doubtless
you have not begun to cook the trout, all
will do equally well for tomorrow's
dinner."

Dame! do you say so? you should have
heard the master just now, he cursed and
swore like a bargeman ; he said when he
had the expenses of a housekeeper he
ought not also to have the expense of
dining at an hotel."

Mademoiselle Herkenne had sat very still,
now she said sharply, " What a tongue you
have, Lambertine ! it will be well for me to

caution Monsieur Vidonze that you repeat
all you hear. My good woman, you are
here to cook, not to chatter ; you can go."

Mademoiselle Herkenne went back to
her book, and Lambertine felt herself
beaten ; she had not even succeeded in
ruffling the housekeeper's temper, so she
went back grumbling to her kitchen.

Patience," Mademoiselle Herkenne
was saying to herself, " what is the use of
life unless one learns from it ? Certainly my
life has been one full of lessons of patience.
I believe that his head is still full of
another woman ; it must be my fault if
this continues."

And yet, though she fancied herself calm,
she was singularly restless. Although it
had annoyed her from the first to see
Jeanne's portrait in Vidonze's room, still
she had not till to-day felt any violent
dislike to the person it represented. Almost
as soon as the cook departed, she rose and
went to the room at the end of the gallery.

She stood before the portrait, looking at
it intently. It was not pretty, but there
was something far more attractive than mere
doll-like beauty in the face above the bed.
It was full of rest and of truth. Elise Her-kennel
turned away with a baffled, perplexed
look.

I never had a friend," she thought,
but that is just the face I could trust to
in a friend; that is to say, if I ever were such
a fool as to trust a man, or a woman either."

Just as she reached the door it opened,
and she was face to face with Antoine
Vidonze.

She was disconcerted, but he smiled at
her in a most genial way ; his bronzed face
glowed with satisfaction.

Always seeing after my comforts," he
said politely, " on my word, Mademoiselle,
you spoil me. No, do not go," for she was
going towards the door, " will you spare
me just an instant ? I should like your
opinion on that picture."

While he spoke his eyes were fixed on the
portrait of Jeanne, but Mademoiselle 
no emotion. She had learned
early in life that to show one's feelings
is to court either ridicule or repression.
She did not believe in the existence of true
sympathy, but considered that the best
was alloyed with contempt for the weakness
which claimed it, and that the
ordinary quality which went by its name
was nothing but a veil for malignant
curiosity, hungering for a fresh store of
gossip.

She answered Vidonze as if the matter
were one of perfect indifference.

It is very well painted, Monsieur, and
I should think a good likeness."

Her fingers tingled as she watched the
ardent gaze he kept on the portrait, and
yet no one looking at her proud still face,
could have guessed at the longing she felt
to tear the picture down and destroy it.

"I don't mean that," he said impatiently.

" What fools women are I" he
thought. " I mean," he went on, " don't
you think the face remarkable ?"

Very remarkable."

Her coldness annoyed him, and he turned
sharply from the picture.

Something in the stately grace of her
attitude checked his impatience. He had
never owned it to himself, but he was a
little in awe of his self-contained, silent
housekeeper. And yet as he looked at her
it seemed to him that she must be full of
resources; he might do worse than consult
her about Jeanne  of course there was
no need to tell her everything.

I should like to talk to you about the
original," he said, " come and look at the
new negatives," and he folio wed her along the
gallery to the room where she had received
Baconfoy. The choicest photographs were
kept in the portfolios leaning against the
dark walls, and Vidonze spent most of his
time here when he was at Namur. He

showed Mademoiselle Herkenne his new-photographs,
and he was surprised at her
appreciation of the scenery he had just
taken in the Ardennes.

You should see the country itself," he
said; " and I am told that south of Spa
there are views which would make the
fortune of any artist who could paint
them."

You should photograph them," she said
eagerly, " and then you will have all the
merit of having discovered them."

Vidonze smiled, but he shook his head.

I should not sell them here, tourists
do not stay long enough in Namur to purchase
views."

You might sell them elsewhere," she
said  " such a talent as yours should be
known far and wide; your views are very
remarkable."

Vidonze smiled till he showed his
long white teeth fully; her praise was
pleasant to him. How lucky he had

been to secure this woman, he thought ;
she was just the manager he had wanted
all these years, quite as able as his sister,
and so much more active and sympathetic;
his sister had always checked his enterprising
notions, instead of helping to
extend them. It seemed to him that these
keen wits must help him in finding Jeanne.

Mademoiselle," he had sat staring atone
of the views ever since she spoke, " I
said I must talk to you; I am in trouble, and
I think your cleverness can help me out of
a difficulty."

A smile came against her will, it was so
sweet to be praised by him, and yet she
felt sure that what he was going to say
would wound her.

Some meddling persons," he went on
without looking at her, " have separated
me and the young lady whose picture I
asked you about ; she," the dusky red on
Vidonze's face deepened vividly, " was to
have been my wife, but she has been

hidden away from me by meddling friends.
You are so clever, Mademoiselle, that I
believe you can find her for me."

He looked up at Mademoiselle Herkenne,
but she was not smiling. Her face baffled
all scrutiny, it was so still. For the
moment she felt as stunned as if some one
had struck her. All her vague fears were
proved to be realities, and the man to whom
she had resolved to become so necessary
that he could not do without her, actually
sat close beside her asking her to help
him to secure another woman for his wife.

Afterwards in the night that followed,
Mademoiselle Herkenne wondered at her
own reticence, she wondered she had not
shown in some way her repugnance. She
could hardly believe that she had answered
calmly.

You over-rate my power, Monsieur,
I could never succeed where you have
failed. ,,

Bah," said Vidonze, " that is your

modesty, Mademoiselle. Sit down and I
will tell you everything I know ; your sharp
wits will find a clue where I am baffled."

She refused to sit down, but she listened
while he told the story of Jeanne's strange
disappearance.

Mademoiselle Herkenne stood wrapt in
thought for some time after he had ended.
She was not in doubt as to her reading of
this mystery, but simply she was calculating
whether her hold on Vidonze was
strong enough for her to utter it.

At last he pushed back his chair impatiently,
and she felt that she must speak.

It would almost seem, considering the
engagement between you, as if she might
have written to you."

He looked up sharply, for her tone
suggested a meaning beyond the words ;
and he drew back involuntarily from the
keen penetration of her dark eyes ; he had
never seen them so fully, and their proud,
pathetic look arrested his attention, even

VOL. II. D

in the midst of his pre-occupation about
Jeanne. There was such a slender refined
grace about this woman that the
contrast between it and the struggle in her
eyes was startling. She looked, physically,
so unfit for the defiant pride that seemed
to fight with the dark sorrow in those
closely set eyes  eyes that shone with a
suffused brightness through the ruffled
dusky hair, that partly hid her brown
forehead.

Did I not say she had not fully consented
?" he said crossly.

Ah !" This was the conclusion she
had arrived at mentally, but had not ventured
to utter.

That makes the search more difficult,"
she smiled, and Vidonze felt irritated.

I cannot see why you should think so ;
I find that a party o three, a lady and a
gentleman and a girl, who was of course
Jeanne Lahaye, travelled northward from
the station to which I traced them ; now

if a sharp-witted woman like you undertook
this journey, making inquiries about
the various chateaux and their inhabitants,
you would find the clue I want."

And if I do find it," she said quickly.
Suppose I find also that this Mademoiselle
Lahaye has gone away of her own
free will to marry some one else."

Vidonze jumped up violently and
muttered an oath, his red beard quivering
with impatience.

That is not possible, for reasons which
no one would understand better than yourself,
if I explained them."

He had determined not to tell her all ;
why should he let himself be drawn on to
confess like a woman, against his will ? But
he had not the perfect self-control of his
housekeeper, and she read this perplexity
in his face.

I will willingly help you," her tone
was firmer, she felt that at last she had got
a hold on this man ; it was only slight, but

d 2

o

if dexterously managed, he might not be able
to loosen her influence; u but, Monsieur,
I can help no one while I am blindfold ; you
have not, I think, told me the whole story
of Mademoiselle Jeanne Lahaye." She
would know it, though she felt that the
knowledge might yet more cruelly wound
her.

He looked sullenly on the ground, and
beat his fingers on the table.

"You are mistaken. I have told you
everything connected with her disappearance,
and the search I have made for her."

Mademoiselle Herkenne bowed.

Yes, Monsieur, but it seems to me there
is a link wanting ; when a girl so young
and quietly reared as Mademoiselle Jeanne
gives up such a man as you are"  her eyes
fixed on him full of admiration, and then
fell under his, while a dark glow came into
her face  " she loves some one else."

A minute ago Yidonze had drunk in
greedily the flattery of her eyes ; now he

j jumped up with a scarcely muttered oath, and
walked hurriedly to the end of the narrow
room. " I tell you meddlers have separated
us ; confound the chattering fools," he
said fiercely, " my sister, I suppose, has
thought it necessary to tell all the world
her ridiculous suspicions." He frowned
heavily as he looked at his housekeeper,
for he read in her face how impossible it
would be to deceive her. He came back
to where she stood.

1 suppose the silly boy and girl affair
between her and Edmund Depuis has come
to your ears ; surely you cannot mean that
such a girl as Jeanne will go on caring
for a married man."

An unpleasant cynical smile on her face
puzzled Yidonze. It was the first outward
sign she had given that she was not
wholly in sympathy with him. It seemed
as if she thought him over-scrupulous.
" She may not know that he is married,"
she said ; " however, you have answered my

doubt ; and if she loved Monsieur Depuis,
she has probably married in the despair
which disappointment sometimes causes."

Vidonze spoke abruptly.

I do not fancy that any woman would
break her heart for Depuis," he said, " he
is a good-looking fellow, but he has no
power to hold a woman ; he is weak as
water, and changeable too. Well, Mademoiselle,
think over what I have been saying,
and by tomorrow, perhaps, you will
have thought of some way of helping me ;"
he nodded and went out.

Elise Herkenne was glad to see him go ;
she wanted to be alone to think over all
she had heard ; for it was not only the confession
of Vidonze's love that filled her
mind ; the hard usage she had met with
had taught her the use of power, and she
saw at once that she had gained a hold over
Edmund Depuis. He had only married that
little fool Pauline for her money, while he
was in love with another woman. Why had

he not married Jeanne Lahaye ? Here again
the world's logic came to her aid, and she
smiled at the simplicity of her own question.
They were both poor," she said,
the rich only can marry where they
love. Edmund Depuis knows well enough
where this Jeanne is, and between us he
and I can surely manage to keep her
hidden from Antoine."

CHAPTER III.

AT CHATEAU Contour.

Tl Evening sunshine is coming in through
- the three windows in a small round
room. This is built in one of the towers
of Chateau Montcour, and looks down
on the deep valley of the Ambled.

The wall paper has orange yellow
flowers, with faded green leaves on a gold
background, and the evening sunlight
makes it glowing and life-like as an autumn
forest. The light does not rest only on
the walls, it falls broadly on a bent head,
covered thinly with grey hair, and on the
meagre figure to which the head belongs.

The face is dark, and habitually sad in

expression ; just now, however, a smile on
the pale lips welcomes the bright sunbeams
as they reach the face. There is a
pianoforte in the round room, and a small
book-case over the table beside his easy
chair; but Eugene deMontcour always sits
idle to watch the sunset, his thin 
hands folded in his lap.
He worships the sunset; next to music
it is the joy of his quiet life. He
is quite unconscious of a soft murmur
that comes from the large room beyond
the looped-up curtain in the door-way of
the turret ; a merry girlish laugh rings now
and then across the almost weird stillness,
but even at this laughter Monsieur
Eugene does not look round, he is listening
to other voices.

The large room is panelled with oak,
though on one side a space of this has been
plastered over and papered, thus making a
strange and not harmonious contrast in
the sides of the room, but the paper was

chosen by the late Madame de Matagne,
Eugene's young wife, who died in her
youth, and for worlds his tender elder
sister would not change it.

Looking at Mademoiselle de Matagne
you would not suspect her of sentiment, as
she sits leaning back on a huge yellow
sofa laughing heartily. Jeanne Lahaye
sits on a stool at her feet, and is telling her
something about the villagers on the other
side the river, which they both find
amusing.

But now Mademoiselle de Matagne has
left off laughing, and her face is in repose
again. There is much sense of humour in
her pale, soft, merry eyes ; while her broad
forehead and the rest of her face are
more expressive of good sense and matured
judgment than of mere sentiment. Her
mouth, however, is tender enough, and the
smallest appeal to her pity will set it
quivering, not with mere compassion, but
with readiness to help. In figure she is very

upright and dignified looking; she wears no
cap on her light brown, stiffly dressed hair.
She is a little queen in the village across
the Ambleve, and Mademoiselle de Matagne
works harder than some queens do, for
she seldom trusts her good offices to
other hands. When she goes away for a
few weeks of much needed holiday, the
people spend their time in wondering how
they could live without Mademoiselle.

She and her brother Eugene have lived
alone in the Chateau ever since they lost
their young sister Jeanne, and Mademoiselle
Matagne has told her protegee that
it was her likeness to this darling of their
hearth that first attracted her. Their
widowed mother died years ago, and
Eugene's little delicate wife only lived a
few months, so that it seems like a holiday
to Mademoiselle to have bright young companion
to talk to every day. There's another
brother, younger than Eugene, called
Raoul ; he is a traveller, and a savant also,

and rarely visits Montcour. The chatelaine
already dearly loves her young guest ; she
longed to take her away when she saw her
in the lonely cottage beside the river;
and when Monsieur Hallez came to her
and told her Jeanne was an orphan, and
he feared that he could not protect her
from the persecutions of Antoine Vidonze,
Mademoiselle de Matagne asked the Cure
to bring the girl to her at once, and promised
to provide for her ; and then Jeanne joined
her and her brother at the railway station.
Jeanne had never been so constantly
happy. She loved her kind friend as she
had never been able to love her grandmother.
There was something in Mademoiselle de
Matagne that invited both love and confidence
; and yet there was no display of
affection, nothing suggestive of that merely
impulsive friendship which, like the water
of a fountain, ceases as suddenly as it
began. She had told Jeanne on their
journey to Montcour that she reminded her

strangely of the young sister, who at
twenty had died suddenly, and whose loss
had always been felt as a sorrow in the
family of four.

Sometimes Jeanne asked herself if it was
all a dream, when she waked up in the
morning and saw the sun streaming into
her pretty little chamber in the chateau.

There was neither luxury nor idleness at
Montcour; they were not rich, but there was
a sufficiency. Mademoiselle de Matagne
denied herself in every possible way, so
that she might relieve the aged and infirm
of her village; and although she asked
that Jeanne should spend a part of each
day in the course of reading she had
marked out for her, yet she was glad of
her assistance in making clothes for poor
children; in helping the teachers who taught
the village little ones; in minding the
babies while the mothers worked like menin,
the fields ; or in carrying wine and soup
to the sick.

But Jeanne enjoyed the life at Chateau
Montcour, full as it was of occupation ;
there was always the pleasant walk to look
forward to, and the evening when she
sat and listened to her friend. Mademoiselle
de Matagne had travelled, and had studied
not only the places she visited, but the
people in them. She could speak several
languages fluently, and was as conversant
with foreign literature as with that of her
own country. Sometimes she read aloud,
or she and Jeanne read a play together, and
then Monsieur Eugene would play to them.
He was slightly deaf, and often silent, but
he had a true genius for music. He would
begin with fragments of Bach and
Beethoven, and then go off into an improvisation.
Jeanne thought that the lovely,
fantastic music she listened to was the outcome
of those hours when Monsieur
Eugene sat, as he is now sitting, in the
turret, gazing out over the valley.

Poor Monsieur Eugene  the girl often

pities him ; he has been handsome, and he
has still an almost magical smile, which
lights up his dark quiet face and brings a
bright golden gleam out of his half-closed,
sleepy blue eyes, a gleam that tells of fire
somewhere hidden away in that silent, reserved
gentleman who is always more or
less of an invalid.

Jeanne had been very open with Mademoiselle
de Matagne, and her kind friend
took a deep interest in the story of the
girl's love for Edmund Depuis. She
laughed at the doubts of his constancy
which Yidonze had tried to instil.

If Monsieur Depuis really loves you,
my child, he would not so soon think of
marrying some one else ; it was a commonplace
ruse of Monsieur Vidonze, but I
make this excuse for the poor man, Jeanne,
no doubt he loves you. See what an absorbing
little creature you are to have two
men in love with you at once !"

Jeanne wonders whether her friend has

ever loved ; but there is something so
evenly serene and bright both in her look
and manner that she decides that any shade
of care which rests on the fair open face,
with its square brow and soft merry eyes,
must be brought there by the sorrows of
others, not by her own.

As Mademoiselle de Matagne sits now
looking at Jeanne's bright face, she resolves
that, when her brother's health improves,
she will go herself to JSTamur and find out
whether this Monsieur Depuis still wants
to marry Jeanne ; but she will not tell the
girl of her intention. She only stoops and
kisses her, as Jeanne ends her praise of
Charles Cajot the innkeeper's, bright cheerful
temper.

One has to keep bright for others, as
well as for oneself, my child," she says
tenderly, " it is so much better to do this
than to dream away one's time."

Her new surroundings had greatly helped
Jeanne to recover her natural gaiety, and

she did not guess that Mademoiselle de
Matagne busied herself in finding her this
constant employment in the village and at
home, so that she might have no idle
hours in which to indulge her hopes and
fears about Edmund Depuis. She looked
as bright and happy as she did on that
evening beside the Meuse, which had
begun the real story of her life. Still every
now and then her thoughts strayed to
Edmund, and she became grave and silent.
Mademoiselle de Matagne too was
thoughtful ; though her active life forced
her to live in the present, her associations
were all with the past. She had lost
relations and friends alike early, and when
she and her brother left home they usually
travelled rapidly from place to place, thus
giving themselves little chance of forming
new ties. Many visitors came to the
Chateau, the Cure of the village opposite,
and the Cures of Depart and the neighbouring
churches, but, with a few exceptions,

VOL. II. E

Mademoiselle de Matagne found more companionship
in her books and her letters
than in any of her country neighbours,
whose thoughts seldom strayed beyond
their own small world.

Jeanne looked up suddenly and saw that
her friend's pale grey eyes were staring at
vacancy.

The girl clapped her hands.

I triumph," she said, and then taking
the hand that had lain caressingly on her
head, she kissed it, " it is not I only who
am a dreamer."

Mademoiselle de Matagne smiled.

You are right, dear child. I was faraway
just now, not in distance, for I was
here in this very room ; but I was a little
girl again, Jeanne, sitting as you are
sitting, and my great grandmother sat in
this high-backed chair. She was blind an
very infirm, but no one, I think, was ever
merrier than she. She could not see us,
but I can hear her now bidding my grandmother

play a dance that she might hear
our little footsteps on the floor."

"Are you like her?" said Jeanne.
You are like her, I am sure."

Her portrait hangs in the best bedroom
-it is the oval one in the chimney-piece.
I never thought there was a likeness.
Raoul is more like her than I was,
she had dark eyes ; but you have never
seen Raoul."

No." Jeanne had a secret dread of
the unknown brother. She always felt at
her ease with these two, but it seemed to her
that this travelled Raoul would be a grand
gentleman, and would look on her as an
intruder at Montcour.

Sometimes I think we ought to give
up the Chateau and live in a town,"
Mademoiselle de Matagne spoke with more
than usual pensiveness, her cheek resting on
her sunburnt, well-shaped hand, " it would
be so much better for my eldest brother,
and we should see more of Raoul if wee

2



were on the great highway, instead of in
this far-off corner."

You mean it would be better for
Monsieur Eugene's health ? "

Yes." Mademoiselle de Matagne
roused herself and sat upright. " I
believe, if he were under the care of a
skilful doctor, he would be a different man.
Sometimes I think I am selfish not to
break away from all and go, Jeanne," a
slight flush rose on her cheek at she looked
at the girl, " I do not often talk of myself,
but it is wholesome to open one's heart
sometimes. Very likely to your young
fresh eyes Montcour seems a gloomy moth-eaten
old place, with its dark staircases
and long galleries, but to me it is the
living treasury of all I have loved and lost.
And sometimes I am not sure whether I
am as necessary to the poor people in the
village as I think I am, or whether I
do not persuade myself this because I do
so love my life here."

She fixed her eyes inquiringly on
Jeanne's candid face.

The girl kissed again the hand she still
held.

I can only say what I think," she
said simply ; " it seems to me that the
village without you would be a body
without a soul, or a blind man without
a guide, it would simply lose its way."

Hush," her friend said, playfully,
you forget Monsieur le Cure."

11 No, indeed," said Jeanne, laughing,
I was thinking of him specially ; poor
Monsieur le Cure, you are his sun ; when
you are away I expect there is not even
moonlight in the presbytery."

CHAPTER IV.

A BAND OE Brothers.

/HLOSE beside the clear sparkling
 Anibleve, just where that lovely river
ends the bold sweep it has made after
leaving Le Fonds des Quarreux, there
stands on the road that follows its course,
a pleasant-looking, white washed inn
Our inn has two faces set at a right
angle, one which looks up the river
valley with its high cliffs  on the top of
which, nestling among trees, is Chateau
Montcour  and on the busy highway to
Spa, which opens at this point ; the other
looks down on a vine-covered bower, and
the sweet river, backed by grey willows,

as it flows on towards the bridge at the
end of the village : some brown cows are
grazing on a pretty little island, and between
the road and the ever-curving river
is a long strip of meadow golden-green
in the sunshine.

The vine that covers the arbour in front
of the house, stretches up to the windows
of the top story, and the perfume from its
blossom makes the whole air fragrant and
attracts a crowd of insects bent on
plunder.

A gauzy cloud of these tormentors is
singing round the black-capped head of
an old man, who sits on a bench in front
of the arbour. He is so old, and probably
thick-skinned, that the insects do not
molest him as they would if he were
younger ; and yet till you notice his
shrivelled hands you would not guess his
age  a hale constitution and his open-air
life have spared Jacques Cajot's looks;
you can see, though he is turned eighty.

what a fine man he has been, very tall
yet, though his shoulders stoop and his
head is bent on his chest; but his business
faculty, once so keen, has left him,
and his chief employment now is to sit
gazing at the sparkling of the merry little
river, sunning himself on the bench in
front of his inn. It is so still and peaceful
to-day that his leisure is undisturbed. From
the back of the inn there comes a clucking of
hens and occasionally the crow of a cock ;
for here on one side of the muddy straw-covered
courtyard is a large grenier railed
in with wood, and beneath this, in the dim
mystery of darkness, the poultry of the
inn burrow and scratch among the brown
and golden-flecked straw, finding therein
much solace in the way of dropped grain.
Beside the grenier is a white wall, down
which nasturtium blossoms gleam like
jewels among the leaves ; the garden on
the top of the wall is shaded by a huge
walnut tree, and here on a rail the ser-virtues



of the inn dry daily. A broken rugged
flight of stone steps leads up to the garden
and to the grenier. Certainly as one surveys
the back premises, and the courtyard
with its sheds full of the accumulated dust
and the rubbish of generations, they are
highly picturesque and full of colour ; but
one wonders how it is that the Hotel Coq
door is so clean and comfortable, and why
this village of the Ambleve is so pleasant
to stay in, when it is so much in need of
sanitary reform.

But the brothers Cajot see nothing
amiss in their inn or in their village ; besides
old Jacques there are, Auguste, a
plainer, younger copy of his eldest brother,
and Charles. Charles is much younger than
either of the brothers, and is, in fact, considered
the Adonis of the Cajot family. He
is a handsome, well-preserved man about
sixty years old, with sparkling blue eyes and
a genial smile that seems never to leave his
pleasant face. He too is very tall, and

just now as he stands talking to Pierre,
the boy who cleans boots and shoes for
the Coq door, he seems to tower over the
poor little dark-faced cripple.

And so Mam'zelle Jeanne gave you half
a franc for showing her the way. Be
sure, Pierre, my friend, that you make your
best bow whenever she comes by on her
way to the village ; we must show her that
we know how to behave here, beside the
Ambleve."

Crippled Pierre hitches up one shoulder
and puts out his tongue as he turns
from him ; Charles Cajot goes through
the courtyard, where little pools of blackwater
show how some of the round stones
have sunk below the level of the rest ; then
he enters the house by a door in the
middle of the long passage, which runs
beside the rooms of the inn, and going
along this he finds himself in the front
entrance at the top of a flight of steps,
looking down on the vine arbour. His

smile broadens at the sight of bis brother
Auguste, in a brown holland apron with a
bib, arguing with old Jacques.

Charles runs down the steps like a boy of
twenty, and claps Auguste on the shoulder.

What are you frowning at, brother ? you
look as if all the beer had turned sour."

Auguste looks at him with a drooping
underlip, and a morose expression on his
usually stolid face.

Dame," he says, " it is worse than
sour beer, I am sure, for Rose is letting
Guienne, the driver, court her, and when I
asked her why he loitered about, she told
me he had promised to marry her before
the year is out. It is not a thing to laugh
at, Charles ?"

Charles Cajot shrugs his shoulders.
What must be, must be," he says, " and
frowns won't mend it. My brothers, we
must look out for another cook."

Old Jacques never gives his opinion
unless directly appealed to, and therefore

his brothers are surprised to see him lift
his head and speak out in reproof.

You are a child yet, Charles, or I
should call it strange that you should
think Rose is able to judge for herself; the
girl is only forty years old ; she must not
be allowed to marry at present."

Auguste's face clears and resumes
its accustomed stolidity; he sighs with
relief, the idea of seeking a new cook for
the Coq door has been crushing.

Charles again shrugs his shoulders,
but he looks respectfully at his eldest
brother.

You are always right, Jacques," he
says, " and I am, of course, young in
knowledge compared with your wisdom ;
but if Rose is bent on marrying, I do not
see how we can stop her."

"Bah ! she must be stopped, Jacques
will tell her it is foolish," Auguste says,
and she will give up Guienne," and then
he puts both hands behind his back, looking

across the road at the river, as if all
trouble was swept from under the roof of
the Coq door.

Charles Cajot stood on the steps looking
rather cynical ; both he and Jacques wore
low-crowned black straw hats, but Auguste
was as usual bareheaded, his stiff grey
hair standing upright from his head; all
three brothers had shaven chins, though
Auguste was plainly in need of the barber.
It may have been because he was less
handsome than the other two, but in
appearance lie was the Cinderella of the Cajot
family. It never seemed to occur to him
that he should smarten himself up even fora
fete day. He looked tolerably clean, but
one sometimes wondered whether he ever
took off: his clothes ; no one could remember
to have noticed any change in them.

Suddenly there was an eager exclamation,
" Here come the ladies I" Charles
spoke as if his mouth were full ; he was in
such haste to get out his words before

Mademoiselle de Matagne and Jeanne came
up.

The village, one straggling row of
houses beside the river, had the inn for
boundary at this end, and the old grey-towered
church at the other, and a little way
beyond the church, less than half-a-mile
from the inn, was a stone bridge. The
chateau that nestled among the trees on
the top of the cliffs, just where the river
swept round into the dim mystery of the
valley, had to be reached by the bridge
beyond the church. It seemed as if there
ought to have been another bridge just
below the Chateau for the use of its inhabitants,
and the younger of the two
ladies was saying this as they followed
the winding road, and came suddenly
into full view of the vine-covered inn.
Mademoiselle de Matagne smiled at her
tall companion.

People were better walkers in the days
when the chateau was built than they are

now," she said ; " but are you tired,

Jeanne ?"

Jeanne laughed, and turning to her friend

showed her bright face full of animation.

She looked handsomer than she had ever

looked in the cottage beside the Meuse ;

unless, indeed, when Edmund Depuis had

been by to bring a glow of happy love to

her eyes.

"I tired!" she cried. "I could spend
the whole day wandering about these
lovely hills, and never feel tired. I was
thinking of you and Monsieur Eugene; it
seems hard to be in front of your own
house and to have to go such a way round
to get home."

Mademoiselle de Matagne smiled.
When I was young I used often to take
off shoes and stockings, and walk across the
stepping stones in dry weather; but the cliff
is steep and not safe climbing, and now the
brushwood has grown so thick, 1 do not
suppose it would be possible. But look,

there are the brothers ; we must speak
to them. I hear you are already a great
favourite, Jeanne, with old Jacques Cajot."

The old man had begun to smile as he
watched the tall willowy figure appear at
the turn of the road. One could scarcely
call Jeanne slender, for her limbs were
rounded, and her form fully developed,
but there was a freedom and a grace in
her movements, which suited well the
sweeping lines of her figure. All the
three brothers were bare-headed when
the ladies reached them, and Charles's
white teeth gleamed with delight. Mademoiselle
de Matagne nodded.

I want to talk to you, Monsieur
Charles," she said.

Jeanne's smiles seemed like sunshine to
old Jacques.

Well, Monsieur Cajot," she said, " how
do you feel to-day ? do the gnats teaze
you ?" She scattered the singing crowd
of insects with her handkerchief.

Jacques Cajot smiled and bowed to
Mademoiselle de Matagne as she passed
in at the inn-door, followed by Charles.

Mademoiselle," the old man fixed his
pale blue eyes on Jeanne, " the gnats do
not molest me ; they know better ; they
prefer to attack a fair young lady," he
bowed to Jeanne, " or a young man like
my brother Charles."

Jeanne smiled ; she remembered Mademoiselle
de Matagne had told her that
Jacques and Auguste considered Charles
quite juvenile, much too young to marry.

Yes, indeed," she said, " last night I
could scarcely sleep for the gnats. I don't
know which is most annoying, their singing
or their sting."

Jacques looked at her seriously.

My dear young lady, one is much

worse than the other; it is like all the

rest of life; it is for want of understanding

this difference that people make mistakes."

"I don't understand," said Jeanne; he

vol. n. e

did not seem to be speaking to her ; he
was gazing at the river.

Jacques Cajot looked perplexed and then
shy, and he once more raised his eyes to
Jeanne's face. He had been thinking aloud,
and it troubled him to interpret the meaning
of his words.

They think a noisy gnat worse than a
stinging one." Then he paused ; he saw
that Jeanne still looked puzzled, and he
sought a way to make his meaning clear.

There's no farther to go than Auguste,"
he nodded towards the surly brother,
who stood just out of ear-shot, nailing a
straggling vine branch over the door on
the other front of the house. "People
don't like him because he speaks roughly ;
but Auguste has no sting, Mademoiselle.
Those who do most stinging do it quietly,
and with a smooth tongue when they speak."

I agree with you," Jeanne said, and
her thoughts went back to the cottage,
and to Antoine Vidonze.

Mademoiselle de Matagne had warned her
that probably this ardent lover would follow
on her track, and that therefore it would
be wise in her, for some time at least, not
to go out alone; but some months had
now gone by, and the girl felt safe from
his pursuit. Should she ever see the
Meuse again she wondered, and then all
at once the stream before her broadened 
it was evening beside the Meuse ; Edmund
was with her in the boat, and he was
smiling at her in his sweet, teazing fashion.
The old man's voice roused her from her
dream.

Has Mademoiselle seen our Monsieur
Raoul ?"

Jeanne started, and, as she met the
old man's eyes, she blushed. Jacques looked
so full of unusual alertness that she felt
as if he had discovered her secret.

You mean Monsieur Raoul de Matagne.
No, Lave not seen him. I believe he is
not likely to come to the Chateau."

v 2

Ah ! Mademoiselle, he is worth seeing ;
he is a fine lad with a head that might be
grey for its wisdom ; he knows more than
his sister even. Ah ! he is some one not
to be met with every day."

Jeanne smiled; she knew that the younger
brother of her friend was at least forty years
old, and Jacques Cajot was calling him a
lad.

Here Mademoiselle de Matagne came out
of the house from the back-yard, where she
had gone at Charles's request to look at a
promising brood of chickens. She had
heard the old man's praise of her brother,
and she patted his shoulder gently.

No, my friend, I do not think he will
come before the year closes ; he is studying
Swedish and northern books, and he
never likes to leave a thing half done;
and, when he quits Sweden, he will stay
some time in Denmark."

Who can tell the humours of a young
man ? Last time he came, Mademoiselle

did not expect him ; he took her by
surprise."

Mademoiselle laughed back at the old
man.

And I scolded him, Jacques, and told
him he must never again give my nerves
such a trial as to come softly into my
room when I thought him miles away.
No, Eaoul is too dutiful to do this twice. "

Mademoiselle knows best." The old
man rose and bowed to the friends as they
moved on ; but when Auguste, who had
kept shyly out of the way, came and sat
beside him on the bench, he said 

Monsieur Eaoul and Mam'zelle Jeanne
would make a fine pair if they were not
too young to marry, Auguste."

THE JOURNEY TO SPA.

Tower since the evening when Pauline
 had shrank into the corner behind the
curtain, something seemed to have come
between her and her husband. Edmund was
kind; she had really nothing to complain of;
but an undefinable weight seemed to press
upon her. She thought that Edmund would
have said something in explanation of his
strange mood ; and then she told herself
this was a woman's idea, and that she did
not understand men and their ways. Once
she tried to ask her husband what this cloud
was that had come between them, and why
he so often preferred to take walks alone ;

and then she checked herself. Would not
this be a complaint, and had not Esmond
said, when he had praised her for her brightness,
that he could never care for a fretful,
complaining woman. At this poor Pauline
reluctantly looked back, and the truth
which she had tried to hide from herself
revealed itself. Edmund had only offered
her friendship; she had no right to expect
more than that as a return for the love she
gave. She began to feel that torture  so
near akin in suffering to jealousy, and yet
so much more innocent in intention  the
torture of her own unworthiness. It became
her all-absorbing thought ; every day
she loved Edmund more dearly, and everyday
she felt herself more unequal to him.
It was impossible, she thought, that he
could ever look on her as a real friend and
companion. She had been abruptly roused
from her blind, passionate happiness, and
now she felt that her eyes would never
close again.

She saw that it had only been happiness
to her. Edmund had soon found out his
mistake in marrying her ; and then, perhaps,
her husband came in with a smiling
face, and spoke a few kind words, and away
flew Pauline's weight of misery, and for
about an hour she was happy. She began to
see what she might have noticed sooner, but
for the blindness of her joy  that Edmund
never asked her opinion except on the
most trifling subjects ; he did not contradict
her, but he plainly looked on her as a
child, unable to help him in the serious
business of life.

I am so ignorant and foolish," the
poor girl said, " what else can I expect ?"
and then she mourned still more over her
own insignificance.

Edmund was too much taken up by the
fruitless struggle in his own mind to
bestow close attention on his wife. He
strove to be kind and attentive, and he
felt satisfied that he did his duty ; but



he began to think Pauline had grown very-dull.
A chance remark of his cousin Jules
made him go home one day and look at her
with attention. Yes, Jules was right, and
Edmund's heart smote him that he had not-seen
for himself the change in his wife's
looks. She did not run down to the gate
and welcome him ; she only smiled and
looked bright when he came in. The foolish
child shrank from forcing love on him, and
so day by day she let go the little links
which hold liking, and which may win love.

She had been crying this afternoon, and
as Edmund, with his self-reproach strong
upon him had come home sooner than
usual, her eyes were still heavy, and her
cheeks were stained with tears. Edmund
thought of the radiant little face that used
to be lifted to his own as he saw Pauline's
confusion, and then he noted her piteous
attempt at a smile of greeting. He hurried
to her and took her in his arms.

"What is it, my darling?" he said.

You are ill, and you have not told me."

She was sobbing, and she could not
answer him. Man-like, Edmund began to
question.

Tell me what it is, my child ; are you
ill, Pauline ? Tell me what makes you
look so sad ?"

The transition was too sudden from
grief to hope, and Pauline began to laugh
hysterically ; but she was soon quiet, and
then laying her head on his shoulder she
whispered.

Ci I am not ill, my own love. I am going
to be well now always."

For a week after this Pauline was happy.
Edmund was once more devoted to her ; he
took her for walks and drives; he stayed at
home and read to her; he even tried to
paint her portrait ; but his success did not
tempt him to complete his work. He
fancied too that while she was sitting she
had tried to bring about an explanation,
and he felt that this was impossible. He

fully believed in his wife's love, and he
knew the pain of unrequited love ; how,
then, could this loving, gentle Pauline endure
to hear that he, her husband, still loved
another woman, a woman who was free ?

"No," he said, "I will do my duty,
and I must strive to forget Jeanne. I
suppose in the end I shall do so ; but
Pauline's peace must never be troubled,
she shall never know the struggle that I
have to live through."

He thought himself so strong in this resolve,
but when he saw Pauline's bright
and blooming face again, his self-reproach
quieted. He told himself that Baconfoy
was a fanciful old frump ; that Pauline
had been a little nervous perhaps ; and
he soon went back to the solitary walks
in which he could dream of Jeanne.

This relapse tried his wife severely.
She was glad now she had not attempted
an explanation with Edmund.

11 No explanation is needed," the poor

girl said; "he is tired of me  the next
service I can do him is to die."

Edmund stayed away later than usual
on this special evening. When he came
in he saw how pale Pauline was. She
came forward to meet him, and the light
from outside fell full on her face ; but
Edmund dreaded another agitating scene
with his wife; he took no notice, but
kissed her more lovingly than usual.

When dinner was over, instead of walking
up and down among his flowers while
he smoked, Edmund came and sat beside
Pauline in her favourite nook in the
window.

You look pale, my little one," he
said, "and I feel tired. We both want
change, Pauline ; shall we go to Brussels ?"

Pauline had visited Brussels with Monsieur
Ferage, and she grew still paler as
she remembered that painful journey.

We shall not find a prettier home
than this." She looked round her charming

little room, which, with its rose chintz
hangings and blue satin cushions, looked
like a study from Watteau, then with a
timid glance at Edmund : " But if you
wish for a change, dearest, we will go
certainly." She gave a little sigh.

Edmund bent down and kissed her
forehead.

<s You dear little martyr," he said, pleasantly,
" I had no notion it was a penance to
go where there are shops to spend money
in and people to look at your gay dresses ;
but perhaps you are right, Brussels will
soon be deserted, and it is very dry and
dusty. Shall we go to Spa ? you will find
shops and green trees as well, and perhaps
the springs may do you good  tell me,
Pauline," he said kindly, for he saw a flush
rising on her cheeks, " would you like
this ?"

Her answer was to put both arms round
his neck, and whisper to him that it would
be delightful.

And when shall we go ?" she said,
eagerly  " soon ?"

"As soon as you please." he answered;
her readiness pleased him. He tried to
think that this journey must draw them
closer together ; it would, he hoped, strike
out fresh sympathies. " And after all, sympathy
comes next to love," he thought.

Next morning it seemed to Pauline that
life was as golden as she had ever dreamed
it might be. There sat Edmund poring
over maps and reading travel books, so as to
find what hope of sketching lay before him,
while she had only to hold counsel with
Valerie as to the gowns best suited to wear
at Spa.

The journey passed off fairly well, except
that Pauline was so intent on studying the
dress of a Parisian lady beside her in the
railway carriage, that she was too late in
turning her head at her husband's call,
and so missed the sight of the grand ruins

of Franchimont, which Edmund was inclined
to rave about.

Spa was already full of visitors. Ou the
evening of their arrival, as they walked
up and down the promenade, they heard
murmurs of English, scraps of German,
and other tongues, spoken in polyglot confusion
around them ; it seemed to Pauline
that a new sense was wakening in her.
The charming dresses of the visitors, and
the shops full of brilliant " objets de Spa,"
delighted her. Edmund was amused by
her excited gaiety.

You will soon tire of it, my friend," he
said.

And Pauline, thinking that he feared
she was not satisfied, exclaimed with a
heartiness that could not be mistaken :

Oh no ; I never saw a place I liked so
much."

CHAPTER VI,

A RECOGNITION.

'The little toy-shop among green hills,"
-*- as Edmund Depuis called it, was
looking its brightest; it sparkled in the June
sunshine like grass after a shower. The
shop windows glittered with brilliant uselessness,
and the little street was gay with
ladies passing up and down on their way
home from shopping. Edmund was
coming home to his mid-day dinner in a
very discontented mood ; he was heartily
tired of Spa  he had found there was
nothing to be sketched near at hand.
Nature had been put into form everywhere,
as the waters of the springs were put into

bottles for the use and pleasure of the
visitors ; and to his dismay he discovered
that Pauline liked all this artificial prettiness.
She thought it a sort of Paradise to
walk up and down under the trees, listening
to the band and watching the gay dresses
around her.

Poor child, it was all so new and pleasant
to her, the first gala holiday of her life ;
but Edmund found in her very pleasure a
new want of sympathy. He had thought
Pauline so truly simple ; her love for flowers
had seemed to him a sure index of a pure
and simple taste. How could she care to see
impossible roses and lilies staring at her in
exaggerated colour from highly-varnished
boxes and pin-cushions ? He strove hard
not to think of Jeanne, and how different her
taste about these things would have been ;
but though he did not yield to it, he knew
that the thought was lying there ready to
came forward.

He stopped to look into a photograph.
ii. a

pier's window. He felt that two people
came out, but he did not look up, and he
started when a hand was laid on his arm.
Close to him was a red beard, glowing in
the sunshine, and Antoine Yidonze, showing:
his strong white teeth in an enormous
smile of greeting.

I heard you were here, my fine fellow ;
but I had forgotten it till I saw you. I
came two days ago." Then he looked
over his shoulder, and Edmund saw that a
lady was standing a little apart from his
tall, broad-shouldered companion.

I daresay you know Mam'zelle," he
said, awkwardly ; " she is a friend of
your wife's." Then seeing that Edmund
bowed stiffly as to a stranger, Yidonze
added, " Mademoiselle Herkenne  Monsieur
Depuis."

At this Elise came forward, graceful and
self-possessed. She inquired so tenderly
after Madame Depuis, that Edmund felt
obliged to ask both her and Yidonze to go

home with him. He remembered now
that he had heard Pauline speak of her
former governess ; he remembered too that
Baconfoy had told him that Pauline's
protegee would make a very suitable wife
for Vidonze, and he looked at her earnestly
as they walked along, with the hope that
Jules' idea might be verified. He shirked
giving himself a reason for the almost
passionate desire he felt that the red-bearded
photographer should be married.

They soon reached Edmund's lodging,
some little way out of the bustle of the town,
and Pauline welcomed them most cordially.
Indeed she flew at Mademoiselle Herkenne,
and kissed her as if she had always been
a dear friend. She had called once at the
photographer's in Namur, but Elise had
been busy attending to buyers, and Pauline
had been too shy to pay a second visit. It
seemed to her quite a joy to see faces she
knew in this place of strangers. Edmund,
too, in spite of his dislike to Vidonze, found

G 2

himself listening to his talk with interest,
while the two women went off to Pauline's
room to talk confidentially.

Bah I" said Vidonze, stretching out
his legs when he had refilled his pipe.
You say there is no country here, that is
because you have used neither your legs
nor your eyes, my friend. There are
rivers, torrents, hills, valleys, as wild and
beautiful as any in Europe, for those who
know where to look."

He gave a slightly contemptuous glance
at Edmund, and went on smoking.

When do you go back to Namur ?"
said Depuis, eagerly ; he felt too excited
by Vidonze' s assertion to take offence at
his assumption.

Perhaps to-day, perhaps tomorrow ;
and that reminds me," he said, rising,
that I have no time to lose, Mam'zelle has
only come here for the day ; I must send
her back in time. I thought the change
would do her good"  he waved his hand

as if to deprecate praise for his benevolence
 "and besides, I knew she would
help me to decide whether to set up an
establishment here or not."

Edmund stared; he thought Vidonze
must be making a good thing of photography.


"You see," Yidonze was enchanted
to find an attentive listener, " Mam'zelle
is too clever for a housekeeper ; I can
make her more useful. I can keep matters
going at Namur, where I am known, myself,
but I may just as well sell my own work
in one of these holiday places by her
means as trust a lot of fellows who have
no special interest in selling it. She," he
half closed his eyes and winked at Depuis,
is as sharp as a knife, and as bright,
nothing escapes her. She has a good
manner, and is attractive. I think the idea
first-rate, and, at all events, if I can't make
it answer here I shall try it elsewhere."

Then he went to the door and called

out loudly to Mademoiselle Herkenne.

Pauline came down holding her friend's
hand, and looking as bright and happy as
possible.

I am sorry to interrupt you, ladies,"
said Vidonze ; " but, Mademoiselle, you
and I have some business to get through
to-day before your train starts ; I think we
ought to be moving."

I cannot let her go to-day, Monsieur."
Pauline looked so pretty and animated, as
she shook her head at the big red-bearded
man, that he began to think that Depuis
was a lucky fellow after all, though he had
given up Jeanne Lahaye.

Edmund, meanwhile, had been thinking
that he might make some use of the photographer's
experience.

Why not stay here quietly," he said,
we will have something to eat, and then
let us drive to some of the beautiful views
which you say are so near us? I am sure my
wife will be grateful if you will spare Mademoiselle

Herkenne to her ; you can do your
business with her and let her go tomorrow
morning."

Vidonze's vagabond nature was always
ready for amusement.

I am willing'' he said, " we can wire
to Namur ; but we must be off as soon as
possible, we have a long drive before us."

They had a hasty breakfast, and then they
started. For some little way the drive was
too heavily shadowed by trees to present
much variety, but when they reached higher
ground Edmund became enthusiastic in
his admiration. Before them, and on the
left, were lofty hills of varied form, rising
one behind another, with deep and narrow
valleys between them. Sometimes a winding
silver line showed the course of a
river ; but more often a blue haze hanging
midway over the valleys told of some
stream or torrent below.

Edmund was delighted, but he was not
so absorbed in his admiration as to prevent

his noticing that Pauline talked incessantly
to her companion, and never admired anything
that was not pressed on her notice.
Still, in the exquisite atmosphere, for every
grass blade and fern found on the wild
heath they were now crossing glistened in
the sunshine, and with such sights of
beauty round him, Edmund put the jarring
thought aside, as if it were a mere
burr, instead of a clog inseparable from
his future life. He was young and inexperienced,
and yet an inward whisper
had before now warned him that a man's
home life is made up of little things rather
than large ones, and that sympathy in
these little things, far more than in real
likeness of disposition, makes the truest
happiness.

They presently came down a steep road
and found themselves surrounded by hills;
the road crossed the river, which foamed
over grey stones, and twisted in and out
among the hills as if it were trying to shape

a new course for itself. In front was a dark
range of bleak bare hills, and against their
purple sides one thickly wooded rose up
in vivid contrast. Edmund exclaimed and
leant forward as the carriage rattled down
the steep descent.

"What is it?" said Pauline. "Oh,
Edmund, is it not dangerous to lean out
of the carriage when we are going down so
steep a hill ?"

Edmund laughed, but this time he said
nothing about the beauty of the scenery.

Vidonze noted the little incident quietly,
but he went on smoking without a word.
He had grown into a habit of looking at
scenery from a special point of view, and,
if he saw no chance of making money out
of it, it was indifferent to him. But Elise
Herkenne had watched the husband and
wife keenly, and every word spoken between
them showed her how unsuited they
were to one another.

He does not love her, he married the

poor little doll only for her money, and
his heart is with that other woman."

She liked to think this, and she felt far
happier and more hopeful than she had
felt at Namur.

This scheme of Vidonze's had troubled
her ; she had suggested it without imagining
that she would be called on to play a
part in it, and she now feared that he
wanted to put a greater distance between
them. And yet it certainly showed his
opinion of her value, and who could say
that when he came to her as a visitor
she might not attract him more than when
he only considered her as a housekeeper,
whom he constantly saw ? After all he was
often absent, and perhaps spent less time at
Namur than on his journeys ; she would
probably see quite as much of him, but the
scheme should not be carried out at Spa ;
it was too full of strangers, too much a
place of resort, not so much of mere
travellers, who passed through on their

way south and east as if they were mere
butterflies in search of temporary gratification,
but of people full of idle curiosity and
gossip. Elise told herself that she could
never feel safe in this gay little place ; at
any moment some fragment of her life in
Brussels might meet her face to face, and
overthrow the respectable position she had
gained.

They were now in a road which descended
and made a valley between bare,
steep hills. Masses of grey rock showed
through scanty grass on the hill-sides,
but there were few trees. Twice the
lower part of the hill came forward in a
broad shelf above the road, and on this
was a group of miserable huts, which the
driver said was a village. All at once the
road became shaded by an avenue of
trees, and at the end of this they came
upon a scene at which Edmund cried out
in admiration, while Yidonze folded his
arms and looked at him with triumph.

In front was the sparkling Ambleve, bordered
on this side by a strip of green
meadow lower than the road, and opposite
by grey willows. On the right was the
cheerful-looking, vine-covered inn, and on
the left the dark, wood-crowned valley
into which the river wound itself out of
sight, washing on its way the base of the
tree-covered cliff on which showed, nestling
among the leaves, the Chateau de Mont-cour.
But the driver was anxious to rest
his horse, and he drove rapidly past the
first entrance of the inn to the door,
where a flight of steps came down beside
the vine-covered arbour : old Jacques was
sitting there as usual, and at the sound of
wheels Charles came out, smiling a hearty
welcome.

Edmund and Yidonze had kept their
eyes fixed on the picture made by the
Chateau rising above the dark mystery
of the river. As the carriage stopped
the sight of the brothers suggested

to Vidonze the idea of refreshment.

Pauline had been for the last half hour
too tired to enjoy anything ; but in Elise
Herkenne the sight of a new place at
once roused the faculty of investigation.
Already she had noticed a, peasant woman,
wearing a quaint straw bonnet, with a
veil hanging from the back of it ; and as
they drove round the inn she took careful
note of that also ; she saw, what no one
else did, two persons standing in the open
doorway. One was Auguste Cajot, and the
other a tall woman dressed in black. It
seemed to Elise that this last looked
like a lady, and she felt curious to see her
face. Next minute she smiled at her own
inquisitiveness.

She is only a visitor staying in the inn,"
she said.

There was a little delay while Vidonze and
Monsieur Depuis were asking the Cajots
their way to a good point of view over the
Ambleve. Madame Depuis had gone into

the inn to rest, and Elise was alone. She
strolled round to the other side of the house.
The lady was still talking in the doorway.


Auguste, Auguste," sounded from the
house.

The lady nodded farewell to him.

Go, Monsieur Auguste," she said,
you are wanted," and turning abruptly
she came face to face with Mademoiselle
Herkenne.

Jt was Jeanne Lahaye ; Jeanne looked at
the new-comer, and felt a sudden shock at
the expression of dislike on her face.

Dislike !  it was hatred Jeanne thought
that gleamed from those dark, narrow
eyes. But she did not feel troubled long.

I have never given any one cause to
hate me," she thought, as she turned away.
That poor thing is unhappy, and she perhaps
mistakes me for some one else. But
she has an evil look ; it made me shiver."

Jeanne went on quickly, and turned

down a lane behind the inn which led, in a
line parallel to the river, to the church.

Elise stood still. She was trembling so
violently with the shock of her sudden discovery
that she felt powerless  the face that
she had seen was the face of the portrait at
Namur  the girl loved by Vidonze  loved
by both the men she had left close by. Involuntarily
she looked over her shoulder.
Had they too seen the girl ? No, it was impossible.
The angle of the house screened
them, and probably they had gone indoors ;
but as the doubt came whether they had
seen her, Elise's heart felt again feeble and
still, for she divined that the back of the
house must look into the lane down which
the stranger had gone.

She must know at once whether Vidonze
had seen her; she could not wait. She
went in by the doorway through which
Auguste had disappeared, and found herself
in a dingy entrance, painted yellow; close
by, was the door of the kitchen, half open,

and showing a range of brass pans glowing
in the light of the fire. But her footsteps
had been heard, and Auguste, with
his sleeves tucked up, came out to see who
the new visitor was.

Can you tell me," Mademoiselle Her-kennel
spoke with all the dignity she could
so well assume when needful, " where
the two gentlemen are who drove over
from Spa just now?"

Auguste looked amused.

There have been many coming and
going from Spa, Madame," he said, " but if
you mean the photographer and his friend,
they are down beside the river seeing the
pigs washed," and he pointed in the direction
opposite to that which Jeanne had
taken.

Elise felt strangely relieved.

Who was that lady you were talking
to just now ?"

Auguste shrugged his shoulders; he did
not care to be questioned.

She does not belong here," he said.

Then, coming forward, he opened a glass
door, and showed Elise into a long dark
passage ; close to the glass door was a
staircase.

Madame has only to go up there," he
said, "and she will find the other lady in the
salon at the end of the passage upstairs."

Thank you."

She went up a few stairs and waited till
she heard Auguste go back to his kitchen ;
then she crept quietly down again, and
found her way out of the house by the
vine-covered arbour. Whether he cared
for her company or not, she resolved not
to leave Yidonze till they were safely out
of this dangerous place.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER VII.

A FRIGHT.

II Mademoiselle HERKENNE found
 Edmund and Vidonze watching a
crowd of white pigs clustered close
to the water's edge. Two drivers stood
behind to keep the animals from straying,
while a grey-haired, grinning old fellow,
up to his knees in the river, kept on filling
a large bowl with water, and then dashing
it over the pigs. Some of them bore the
shock bravely, but there was a deafening
chorus of grunts and squeaks ; and as
Mademoiselle Herkenne came up two of the
most obstreperous porkers dashed past the
drivers, and came running up on to the road.

Elise felt more tranquil ; both Monsieur
Depuis andVidonze were standing too close
under the bank to have seen anyone who
passed along the road. So far she was safe ;
but there was still a possibility that Jeanne
might come back. If she could only seethe
two men start in the opposite direction,
she thought she would return to the
inn and question the other brother, who
seemed pleasant and more communicative
than the man she had spoken to.

She walked up and down till she saw
them at last leave the pigs, and turn in
the contrary direction to that taken by
Jeanne. Presently they came up on to
the road, and told her they were going
to follow the course of the river, and see
what was called Le Fonds des Quarreux;
but Vidonze turned away without asking
her to go with them, and to her own
surprise Elise had not the courage to propose
it.
You will take care of my wife, Mademoi-

h 2

sell," said Edmund, kindly ; and raising his
hat he turned to overtake the photographer.

Mademoiselle Herkenne was in a bitter
humour. This excursion with her employer,
which had seemed to her such an
upward step in her plans for the future,
appeared so far to be an utter failure ;
Antoine scarcely spoke to her except on
business ; and now to menace the faint
hope she had that he might be brought
to return her love had come this vision of
Jeanne. She could not feel angry with
Vidonze, but her self-contempt vented itself
on his companion.

That fool Depuis would not smile at mein
that bland, half-pitying manner if he
knew how much more cause he has to pity
himself. Why, if he were free of that poor
silly child he might be happy at once ; I
could tell him where to find his Jeanne ;
why do I not tell him ?" She stopped her
leisurely walk beside the sparkling river.
I hardly see why I should be so anxious

to spare people misery who have always
had all they wish for ; why should they have
everything ? I have had no happiness since
I was born."

Buff Elise Herkenne was more unscrupulous
than unkind ; she was cold and
unloving to those who thwarted her, or
who did not in any way help her on in
life, but she did not dislike the happiness of
others so long as it did not interfere with
her own, and she had felt a certain amount
of pleasure in seeing little pale Pauline so
much happier than she had ever been in
her life before. She told herself she was
quite virtuous in resisting this temptation
to spoil Pauline's happiness; for she had
argued that, if Edmund Depuis and
Jeanne Lahaye met, there would be an
end to the hopes of Yidonze. Edmund
would utterly neglect his wife, and Pauline
would be wretched. All at once it flashed
into her scheming brain that perhaps after
all she had not the power to do this. She

had seen Jeanne Lahaye to-day, but possibly
she was only here like herself for some
hours, a mere chance visitor.

As the thought came she turned back and
walked rapidly towards the vine-covered
arbour. She found Jacques Cajot sitting
there still, watching the river as if he expected
it would bear him some message
from the hills. He touched his hat as
Elise drew near, but he made no effort to
speak. The gentle, tired little wife upstairs
had attracted him far more than this
tall stylish lady ; but his brother Charles
admired all women, and had always something
pleasant to say to his lady customers ;
his little bureau was just inside this
entrance, and he came out when he heard
footsteps, smiling and bowing, and began
at once to talk to Elise.

Mademoiselle Herkenne listened while
he told her all that was to be seen in the
village and its neighbourhood, and, when
he had ended, she asked carelessly 

What is the name of the lady I saw
here just now ?"

There are several ladies, Madame,"
he smiled ; " but they come and go, and
we seldom know their names, unless they
write them in our book. But," he looked
puzzled, " I had thought all our ladies
went to Spa this morning for the day."

ce The lady I mean was here when we
arrived ; she was tall and young, and she
was dressed in black."

"That lady! Aha!" Charles clapped
his hands with delight, " she is indeed a
charming young lady. She is a cousin ora
relative of some sort of our Mademoiselle
at the Chateau," he nodded his head
at the black-capped towers opposite, " and
she has lately come to live here."

Jacques had been listening, and had
turned round towards the speakers.

She is good and beautiful," he said,
Allez ! you will not easily find the like of
Mademoiselle Jeanne."

What do you say her name is ?" said
Elise.

Charles looked surprised ; it seemed to
him so singular that any one should come
from Spa who had never heard of the
de Manages of Montcour.

The same as the family at the Chateau,
de Matagne."

Do you know where she came from ?"

Jacques had turned round completely ;
he was eyeing Elise with distrust.

No, Madame," he said, " we did not
inquire, the lady belongs to the family at
the Chateau ; it is not our affair."

Charles was troubled by his brother's
bluntness; he thought that ladies, especially
tall and elegant ladies, ought never to be
snubbed. He backed into the house, and
Elise followed him till he led her into a
pleasant room where a table was laid for
four.

Oar salle-manger is at the end of the
house," he said; " but we thought a small

party like yourselves would be quieter inhere
;" then he looked at her.

"Your brother," Mademoiselle Herkenne
spoke haughtily, " seems to think I am
inquisitive, but Mademoiselle Jeanne is like
some one I have seen at Namur, and I
wish to know if she came from there."

Charles was troubled that his brother's
brusquerie had been perceived, and seriousness
suited his genial aspect so little that he
looked ready to cry.

{< Madame,"  he had decided that she
was the wife of the gentleman with the
red beard, and he thought what a lucky
fellow Yidonze was  " my brother is old,
and he is accustomed to speak freely. I
ask pardon for him. I am sorry, Madame,
if he has offended you. The young lady
you ask about came here in the winter."

Did she come alone ?"

The eagerness with which she spoke
made Charles raise his eyebrows in some
wonder. He was puzzled, he fancied so

queenly-looking a being as the lady before
him would be above such a small feeling
as curiosity.

No, Madame ; Mademoiselle de Matagne
had gone away with poor Monsieur
Eugene for his health, and when they came
back this young lady came with them. She
is in mourning, as you see, and she told me
she had lost her parents. It is a good thing
for her that she is related to the family at
the Chateau. She will be well cared for,
our Mademoiselle is the mother of the
village. Ah ! but she has a good heart."

Elise would have liked to go on questioning,
but she did not wish to arouse
suspicion.

She cannot be the lady I thought,"
she said, " the name is different. I suppose
you reach the Chateau that way ?"
and she looked towards the church.

Yes, Madame, there is a bridge, you can
see it just beyond the church ; there used to
be a ford here across those stones," he

pointed to the clear sparkling water, " but
the path up the hill to the Chateau is overgrown
now, it would not be easy to climb
that way."

Mademoiselle Herkenne bowed and
said, " Thank you," and Charles departed,
puzzled by the change in her
manner.

She sat thinking ; it was a relief from
present anxiety to know that Jeanne was
on her way home, but even if she had
not already determined against living in
Spa, she now saw that the risk would be
too great. This beautiful spot would
attract the photographer, and at any
moment Yidonze and Jeanne might be
brought face to face, for Mademoiselle
Herkenne's ready wits at once helped her
to divine that Mademoiselle de Matagne
was the kind friend who had spirited
Jeanne away, and persuaded her to change
her name.

She may possibly be a relation," she

thought, " the girl looks like a lady even
in the portrait."

She heard Pauline calling for her from
the room above, and soon found her way
upstairs.

What have you been doing ?" Pauline
felt fretful, she had been left alone for
more than an hour ; then as she looked at
her friend she said,

"Are you faint ? you are very pale."

It is only the heat ;" Elise gave a
sickly sort of forced smile. She had seen
all in one moment the risk that lay before
her.

She knew very well that Yidonze and
his friend had gone out to seek good points
of view, and that the photographer would
return before long to this charming village.
And she was utterly powerless, she could
not stay him from coming here, nor could
she be with him so as to prevent him
from meeting Jeanne. There was no trustfulness
in her nature except in regard

to herself. She felt herself equal to any
emergency so long as she could act ; but
she knew that this journey to Spa had been
something special, entirely a matter of
business, and that Vidonze would not
dream of asking her to travel with him
merely for the sake of her company.

I should not wish it either," she
thought, as she sat by the window,
utterly regardless of Pauline's small attempts
at conversation, " it would show
he only looks on me as his housekeeper,
or, at the best, his assistant."

And then who could say, if she were
with him some day, they might suddenly
meet this Jeanne Lahaye, and she would
have the anguish of hearing him profess
his love to this girl.

After a while Pauline rallied her on her
silence.

For once, you see," she said, " though
I am a silly little thing, 1 was the wisest. I
lay down and rested, instead of going about,

and you, poor dear, look white and fagged."

Elise felt very bitter.

If you only came here to rest you could
have done that at home. ,,

The tone and the cold smile took Pauline
back to the dull school-room at Malines,
and she felt chilled and timid.

When Yidonze and Edmund came back
they were tired, and hungry too, and the
dinner was eaten in silence. Even going
home, though Vidonze had recovered
his gaiety, Edmund felt restless and discontented
; who can say that the unconscious
presence of Jeanne had not reached
him ? It is certain that as he leaned
back in the carriage Jeanne's face rose
vividly before him ; with the sweet, noble
smile he so well remembered, though he
had striven hard to forget it. For an
instant he pictured how they would have
sat, hand clasped in hand, watching the
glory of the sunset on those purple hills
and deep valleys, too interpenetrated with

the grand beauty around to tell their admiration
save by glowing glances  but
this was not a picture he dared to dwell on.
He turned abruptly to look at his wife ;
she was chattering gaily with Vidonze
about the fete that was to come off next
day. She looked so bright and pretty as
she clasped her hands and implored the
photographer to stay one day longer at
Spa  that Edmund sighed.

He told himself he had no right to have
taken this gay, happy creature fortis wife
unless he was prepared to be as bright as
she was.

If the time could come over again''
he said bitterly ; " if only I were free I"

CHAPTER VIII.

Jeanne's vision.

Jeanne looked very serious as she
** walked home to the Chateau. Her
beloved friend Mademoiselle de Matagne
had not been well for some days, but she
had become so ill in the course of the
morning that Jeanne, after sending more
than once fruitlessly, had gone down herself
to the village to find out when the
doctor was likely to return. Her friend
had entreated her not to give any alarm in
the village, so Jeanne had kept a smiling
face while she asked Auguste Cajot to stop
the doctor's carriage as it passed, and send
him up to the Chateau without delay.

Jeanne dreaded illness in those she loved
with mortal terror. It seemed to her that
the first illness she could remember in
her mother, had also been the last, and
how soon her grandmother's death had
followed on her first seizure. It was
strange to see the hold that this fatalistic
view of illness took on the girl's bright,
hopeful spirit.

I suppose I have been too happy,"
lately she said musingly, as she drew near
the Chateau ; " I have grown to forget my
troubles ; even  " the warm colour glowed
over her clear skin, " even Edmund has
been less in my mind lately ; poor dear
fellow, how ungrateful I have been !"

Involuntarily her haste slackened, she
was picturing the meeting with her lover,
which Mademoiselle de Matagne had said
would surely come to pass if he proved
true. It seemed to Jeanne that any
doubt of Edmund was injustice towards
him. She shrank with so much dislike

VOL. II. i

from Yidonze that she could believe any
evil of him, and the report of Edmund's
devotion to another woman had come
solely from Yidonze, for Madame Boulotte
had got her news from her brother
Antoine. Some day Edmund would find
her out, and then

She waked with a start from the blissful
dream to find herself at the gates of
the Chateau,  high iron gates, through
which showed the courtyard, where grass
was plentiful between the small round
paving stones, and white and grey pigeons
flew in and out of the quaint red-tiled dove-cot.
Before she reached the second pair
of gates on the further side of this lonely
courtyard, Jeanne had come back to the
present and her anxiety.

Beyond these gates was a strip of the
garden, which went on to the angle of the
Chateau, and then on in Iron of the windows
between it and the edge of the cliff :
a huge burnished glass ball was fixed on

a pedestal near the entrance, which was
on this side under a stone porch with
flowers beneath it.

Monsieur Eugene stood just inside the
entrance hall ; he held up his hand when
he saw Jeanne, and came forward to the
edge of the flight of steps to speak to her.

She is asleep at last," he said ; " you
will not go to her, Jeanne. Marie says
even a footstep might rouse her."

Very well," and Jeanne went on round
the angle of the house till she reached the
path which ran parallel with the edge of
the cliff. Trees stretching up from below,
and between them a thick growth of tall
green broom, made a screen which reached
higher than Jeanne's head, and for some
distance shut off all view of the river.
This was the part of Montcour which the
girl had not liked; her life had been
spent beside a river, and she had grown
to love its silent yet never monotonous
companionship ; she loved to watch some

2

times the golden glitter of the water, the
little foam eddies which it made round
the grey stones, or that which to-day was
more in harmony with her gaze into the
future, the dark mystery of the clear
brown stream as it swept round the
slightly projecting cliff on which the
Chateau stood, into the narrow tree-shaded
valley, for beyond the inn and the
point where the three roads met the cliff
rose steeply on either side, so that the
Ambleve was always in shadow between
this point and the Fonds des Quarreux.

Mademoiselle de Matagne had lived too
busy a life to trouble herself about the
extent of view from the formal garden of
the Chateau; but she had quickly discovered
Jeanne's love of watching the river and
her taste for the beautiful, and had
yielded to her suggestion that at a point
at the end of the garden the brushwood
and broom should be cleared away from
the edge of the cliff.

Mademoiselle de Matagne was not one
of the practical women who think, even if
they are too well-bred to call others to
account for holding a contrary opinion,
that those gifted with taste or enthusiasm
are sure to be in the wrong ; she soon discovered
in Jeanne a keen love of the
beautiful and a natural taste which only
needed practice for cultivation ; but she
did not at once fly to the conclusion that
because the girl had rarer gifts than she
herself possessed she must therefore be
unreal and wanting in common sense and
good judgment. She had that most
delightful and rare of possessions, a generous
and appreciative mind, of qualities not
possessed by herself.

It was the want of this which had 
although Jeanne did not then know it 
crushed one side of the girl's nature when
with her grandmother. It would have
been impossible to Madame Delimoy to
realize that there were other ways than

hers of looking at life and all the beauty
within it, and she would have felt herself
justified in attacking and reducing to the
same dimensions as her own any enthusiasm
or admiration which appeared to her
simply because she had no power of feeling
it  to be over-strained or exaggerated.
Mademoiselle de Matagne's breeding may
have helped her, for even small natures
are helped by learning early never to
attack seriously the opinions of those with
whom they differ, but to her exquisite tact
and loving tenderness for the feelings of
those among whom she lived, Mademoiselle
de Matagne united a very humble
opinion of her own powers, and a keen
delight in developing the talent of others.
At their first meeting in that little walk
which made Jeanne late, Mademoiselle de
Matagne had been struck by the girl's
simple, fearless answers, and by her enthusiasm
for the beauty of the river. Something
too, that indescribable nameless

charm or glamour, or whatever it may be,
that has such a rapid aud powerful sway
even over unwilling minds, drew her at
once to the noble-faced, friendless girl; for
when she asked Jeanne about her future,
the answer was that Jeanne had only a
grandmother, and Mademoiselle de Matagne
knew that grandmother was over
seventy.

When she brought the girl to Montcour
she revelled in her innocent delight at the
loveliness around the Chateau, and already
many of Jeanne's suggestions had been
carried out; suggestions uttered so simply,
that Jeanne had felt quite guilty when she
saw them acted on.

Now, as she reached the opening that
had been made, and saw the river far below,
and the grand cliff opposite, this proof
of the kindness of her friend was overwhelming.


How can I ever deserve such love ?"
Jeanne thought, and then her heart reproached

her that even while her friend
lay ill and suffering her thoughts had
Strayed to Edmund and her own happiness.
She went on a little way, and then turned
back suddenly with a frown : it was at herself.
She could not tell whence the feeling
came, but it seemed to her as if the very air
was full of Edmund. Try as she would, her
thoughts strayed back to him. She leaned
on the rail which guarded the edge of
the steep wood-clothed descent, and looked
across the river in a sort of effort to tear
herself from this absorption. On the left
was the lovely strip of green meadow, on
which cows grazed peacefully, and beyond
it the meeting of the roads and the white
vine-covered inn. It all looked very still
and peaceful. Jeanne thought she could
make out old Jacques sitting under cover
of the arbour ; but there was no one else
the village had gone to sleep in the
sunshine.

All at once it seemed to her, without

looking, that there was movement on
the cliff opposite  she turned her eyes
there and saw  not in the foreground, but
on the topmost slope of the hill, which
was more gradual than that on which she
stood  two men walking one behind the
other. As she looked, the farthest off disappeared
over the summit of the hill ; his
companion turned round, and, shading his
eyes with his hand, gazed up the valley
towards the dark point where it wound
out of sight.

An exclamation burst from Jeanne 
she grew white and faint. She could not
see the man's face, but something told her
that she was looking at Edmund Depuis,
and that he was utterly unconscious of
her presence. She could not speak or
move till he turned to follow his friend,
then her tongue was loosed.

Edmund," she cried ; but her voice
could not reach him. She saw him wave
his hand as if in answer to his companion,

and then he too disappeared over
the brow of the hill.

Jeanne looked round her in terror.

What has happened ? I am not dreaming
; no, I am broad awake. I have seen
Edmund  my Edmund, who is seeking forme,
and T stand here asleep  oh what can
I do?"

She rushed to the house in breathless
haste. Before she reached the porch
Marie met her with a scared face.

Mademoiselle Jeanne, the doctor is
here; and he wants you at once." Then she
put her apron to her eyes.

Jeanne did not stay to ask questions.
She hurried upstairs and found the doctor,
a short, florid, sensible-faced man, waiting
on the landing to speak to her.

Bon jour, Mademoiselle," he said
politely; then very seriously, "our dear
friend has got a chill ; but it is not that I
am anxious about. I see mischief I never
dreamed of, and, Mademoiselle, I wish

to send a messenger to Spa ; we must
have farther advice. Can I see Monsieur
deMatagne?"

Come with me," Jeanne said, in the
mechanical way in which one is apt to
receive news that seems to crush feeling
out of one. She felt stupid insensible.
She did not ask one question of the perplexed
man who was following her silently
down the old wooden staircase ; only when
the door of Monsieur Eugene's study
closed on him she wondered at herself.

I shall know all too soon," she said,
and she went up to her friend's sickroom.


CHAPTER IX.

THE PHOTOGRAPHER.

People say that we are as we were
*- made. The child is father to the
man ; and so on ; and that all efforts at
conquering faults and habits, which either
injure ourselves or annoy others, are so
much labour lost. But there are surely
some less hard-headed or strong-minded,
perhaps, in whom hope and faith still
battle with cynicism and the earnest indolence
or cowardice which prefers to let
things alone. Impulsive, warm-natured
people go farther still, and believe in the
help-given by outward surroundings; they
are sanguine enough to think that a fresh
start will in some cases blot out troublesome

memories, and help the person, who makes
it, against himself and his daily temptations.

During that homeward drive from Spa,
Edmund Depuis had taken himself severely
to task. He asked what right he had, as
the husband of a loving, good woman, to goon
cherishing Jeanne's memory ; to indulge
in the comparisons which he had been
making. As the evening darkened round
them, the air blew chilly before they reached
the heights above the little town nestling
in its green basin. Certainly it seemed to
him that at first he had cared much more
for Pauline than he now did ; he had found
her a bright and sympathising companion.
11 What else does a man want in a wife?"
he said bitterly. " Keen interest ? Bah !
the romance of love is ended by marriage."

It seemed to him that it was only the
troublesome memory of Jeanne that prevented
him from being tranquilly happy,
and that perhaps the reason of his
estrangement from Pauline arose from

his having given up all employment. In
those early days of marriage, he had been
away all day from his wife, and her sweet
welcome when he came home had been
very pleasant.

While he had talked to Vidonze and
listened to his enthusiasm, his own hankering
after art had developed as art always
does when it finds itself in a sympathetic
atmosphere. Why should he not adopt
painting as a vocation ? It would be better
tau any other ; for it would be both congenial
and absorbing ; it would fill his mind
without effort ; there would be no room
for any thought of Jeanne. He turned
abruptly to Vidonze.

You know plenty of artists," he said ;
I don't know one. Can you tell me of
any picturesque place where they resort,
aud where we could spend a few months
pleasantly ? There is no near sketching
at Namur, and I think I shall take it up
more than I have done."

You should go to Antwerp or to
Munich first and study," said Yidonze.
You won't find you can get on without
some teaching, my friend."

Edmund shook his head.

"That may come after," he said. "I
shall judge better in seeing the work done
by others in the open air whether my
talent is worth improvement; besides,"
he laughed, " I have not an heroic soul,
and 1 don't feel capable in the midst of
summer of shutting myself up in a dull
atelier, and settling my wife down in the
heart of a town while 1 study."

The photographer had grown thoughtful ;
while Edmund spoke he half-closed his eyes
as if he were calculating, but he did not
speak for some minutes after Edmund had
ended.

I suppose you do not care to go faraway
if you can find what you want near
at hand P" he said, slowly. " It is premature
to speak at present, but my plans

will have settled themselves in a few days,
and then I have an idea that I think
will satisfy you, and please Madame
also''

A few minutes after they clattered down
the steep descent to the town, and stopped
before the door of Edmund's lodgings.

I will say adieu to you, Madame,"
said Vidonze ; " we shall leave tomorrow
before you are up. I am sorry to separate
you from Mademoiselle ; but it is possible
that further on you may see far more of
one another than you do at present."

Pauline was too tired out to renew
her entreaties. She kissed Mademoiselle
Herkenne on both cheeks with an ardour
that surprised her husband, and the party
separated.

Vidonze declined to go any further in
the carriage, and he and his housekeeper
walked one after another along the narrow
strip of pavement.

u How fond that little woman seems

of you, Mademoiselle," he said. " I suppose
you like her also ?"

Elise felt ruffled. It seemed to her
that she ought to have been consulted
when Monsieur Depuis told the driver to
take his friends home. Vidonze had not
so much as glanced at her when he refused
the offer to go with them. She answered
briefly 

I thought I had said we were old
friends."

Vidonze smiled. He considered hothouses
a wonderfully clever woman, and
considering her position in life a very
striking-looking person ; but he could not
think she had ever been the equal of
Depuis' charming wife  a little woman
who might have picked and chosen the
best husband in Namur if it had suited her ;
still Mademoiselle Herkenne's friendship
for Pauline chimed in usefully with his
scheme. He had scarcely realised fully till
this evening the special sympathy that
vol. n. K

existed between himself and the tall woman
who walked on with so firm a step before
him ; he had never before met with anyone
who saved him so much trouble; who
understood him at half a word ; who
seemed to infuse her own cleverness into
his without laying any claim to it; for
Mademoiselle Herkenne had a way of
admiring her own suggestions when repeated
by Vidonze, till he believed he had
originated them.

She is just clever enough for what I
want," he said; " and she is quite able to
appreciate me."

In spite of his wild, reckless life, Yidonze
had never bestowed much time on the
study of women, and he had not troubled
himself to make conquests among them.
He had been so unlucky, so accustomed
to be considered as the inevitable down-draught
of his family, that there had been
little scope in his life for the cultivation
of personal vanity. It was probably this

that intensified his love for Jeanne ; and
certainly it was this that blinded him as
to the root of his housekeeper's sympathy.
Just now he congratulated himself
warmly that he had not fallen in with
his sister's wish that he should engage an
older, more commonplace person than
Mademoiselle Herkenne.

It sometimes happens that men who
have spent their youth in desultory efforts,
and who are therefore supposed by their
relatives to be useless members of the
community, strike out a path of success
for themselves, and become harder workers
than those whose shrugs and snubs had
prophesied a very different future for their
unlucky brethren. Yidonze was one of
this class. He felt that he had lost time,
and he was determined to regain it: to fill his
years so full that there should be a surplus
for those wasted before he had settled on
a vocation ; and he thought he saw his
way to a golden harvest with very little

k 2

additional work of his own. A good deal of
this he felt would depend on his being ably
seconded, and he told himself he was sure
of Mademoiselle Herkenne's devotion to
his interests.

I do not suppose she will expect me to
raise her salary, but I will see." He made
a stride forward so as to walk beside her 
he on the road, she on the narrow footway,
and Elise was touched by this mark of
attention. " Let us take a turn down
to the Place Royale," he said ; " it is a
pleasant evening."

Her cheeks glowed, and her eyes
glistened with hope ; she had thought all
day that he avoided her, and now he
evidently sought her company. It would
have been so easy to go in as they
passed their hotel, and to come out again
by himself. They stopped while Vidonze
lit himself a fresh cigar, and then they
walked on slowly together.

You think this place quite unsuited to

my purpose ?" he said, after he had smoked
some time silently.

Yes, it is overstocked," she said,
quietly, " and by practised shopkeepers.
You need a simpler, less sophisticated
place of resort, and besides the season
here is so short."

I have the very place in my mind ; not
so far from Namur either  a place, too,
surrounded by charming bits, and frequented
by artists ; and artists, I need not
tell you, are my best friends. I fancy you
would like it ; it is not so gay as this,
but it is not dull in summer-time ; it is
on the Meuse, too."

Do you mean Dinant ?" she said.
You must, for there is no other town
that answers your description ; unless,
indeed, you mean Huy."

No, I think Dinant is the place. My
sister wishes it, and I have an idea that
I could share a house with your pretty
little friend and her husband. I mean I

could let the upper part to them, and just
keep the shop and what you require."

Elise did not answer. She would
have liked best to be alone ; but it suddenly
occurred to her that Edmund's
presence would be a safeguard. If by any
chance Jeanne came to Dinant, she would
learn that Edmund was married, and
certainly she would avoid the house inhabited
by him and his wife.

It would be a prudent plan at least,"
she said. " Yes, I should think you would
do well at Dinant. You will be nearer
your sister, too, than you are at Namur."

Yidonze shrugged his shoulders.

That does not follow, Mademoiselle ;
except when I may have to take views, you
will not see me often at Dinant "  her heart
sank. " I shall of course have to look
over your accounts from time to time, but
you keep them so well that this will be a
mere matter of form. Then you really
think this plan will do ?"

I can see no reason against it, if you
are resolved on taking this step at all."

"It is too late to argue against your
own advice," he said ; " you put the idea
in my head ; you are bound to help mein
carrying it out ; now I will wish you
good night, for we must start before six,
remember."

He spoke in his hard business tone,
and Elise felt farther off from him than
ever.

CHAPTER X.

Raoul DE Manage.

A WEEK went by at the Chateau and
-* *- Mademoiselle de Matagne was still
ill. But to her brother and her attendants
she did not seem nearly so ill as she did
to the doctors ; her mind so triumphed
over her bodily suffering that, except when
she was faint, and forced to lie in utter
silence, she had always a bright smile and
a cheering word for the devoted watchers
beside her bed. Jeanne was not so much
deceived as the others were. She saw
that her loved friend was trying to spare
Monsieur Eugene, and so she lent herself
to keep him also in ignorance of the danger

she feared. It was this solicitude shown
for the poor melancholy student that
wrung Jeanne's heart ; day by day as she
saw how fully Mademoiselle realised her
state, her own faint hope of her recovery
died. Even when sometimes she stole away
down to early mass at the village church,
it seemed as if the fervent prayers she
offered fell back on her heart. Mademoiselle
de Matagne had asked her to write
for her brother Raoul, and now each day
he might be expected to arrive.

Jeanne sat one dav beside her friend's
window, half screened, on one side by
vine branches, on the other, within reach
of the hand, was a cluster of fast ripening
apricots, glowing a rich gold.

Jeanne."

To the girl's surprise Mademoiselle de
Matagne was sitting up in bed.

Jeanne came up gently and kissed one
of the well-shaped, pale hands that lay ou
the coverlet.

Her friend patted her hair.

My Jeanne," she said, " Eugene does
not suspect, but you know how it is,
everyone will know soon, my child, when

I have seen Raoul, their " she left off

exhausted.

Jeanne had struggled to keep calm, so
as not to distress her friend by any agitation.
It seemed to her that it would bea
mockery to make light of her friend's
danger.

Presently Mademoiselle went on.

I can never say to you, dear child,
the help and comfort you are always." She
smiled at the remonstrance she saw in
Jeanne's face. " Eugene will be happy
under your care  " she paused  " If I
had left him a year ago he would have
been miserable, no one would ever have
got to love him and understand him as you
do ; it is possible he might have been treated
as a person of weak intellect," her face
was full of pain at the idea.

"He has his brother," said Jeanne,
simply. She had never seen Raoul de
Matagne ; it seemed to her that he might
not like her to be left in sole charge of the
invalid.

Her friend saw the doubt in her expressive
face, she gave her an inquiring
look.

Jeanne, you must be open with me ;
you know what you are to Eugene, but
you must not sacrifice yourself merely to
carry out my wishes ; if you have any
shrinking from this charge you must tell
me. My hope was that you would be a
daughter to him, and that even when you
married you and your husband would let
my brother live with you. Stay I" her
cheeks flushed with eagerness, " I must
not let you think wrongly of Raoul, he is
good and noble-hearted, he is full of
affection and kindness, but he is absorbed
in his literary life, he would not quit
Paris for any temptation you could offer

him; and my poor Eugene could not be
happy in a great city."

Then"  Jeanne spoke calmly, it
seemed to her as if all this were acting,
she could not grasp the terrible truth that
her friend was leaving her, and yet was
so absorbed in planning her brother's
future that she forgot her own suffering 
then," the girl said, dreamily, " you
wish me to live on here with Monsieur
Eugene."

Not here"  but the pale eyelids closed,
she had to wait a while before she went
on speaking. " Jeanne, that is my chief
regret now. I have sacrificed Eugene to
my people; this air has never suited him ;
the doctor does not understand his case, I
learned this while we were away ; it maybe
that in more bracing air and under
good medical care, Eugene may yet be
strong and well."

Jeanne waited, she knew that there was
more to be said.

This has all been arranged, and need
not trouble you, dear child ; my wish now
is to know your feelings about this charge ;
you must not be sacrificed for others all
through your life ; you must be frank with
me, my Jeanne."

I have no home but with you," the
girl said, " no where else have I been so
happy."

Then Nature broke through the firm
restraint she had kept upon herself, and
her voice was choked by a sob.

Such a tender smile lit up the faded
face on the bed.

"You must not cry for me, my little
Jeanne, I am going to rest. I wish I could
help laying this burden on you, but even if I
leave you free, you are at present unprotected,
and you are too young, my Jeanne,
to fight the world alone. I do not think
you will be unhappy with Eugene."

She paused, she had nearly told Jeanne
her plan of seeking out Edmund Depuis,

and of learning from him, without betraying
her protegee, whether he was worthy of
the girl's constancy. But while she had
lain there day by day, striving to give up
in all her own will, Mademoiselle de Matagne's
mental sight had grown clearer,
and she saw little hope that Jeanne's lover
would prove faithful.

If he had willed to find her, Mademoiselle
thought, he must have succeeded,
because the channel of communication
which Vidonze had at once sought would
not have been closed to Edmund's inquiries
; Father Hallez would have been
only too glad to restore Jeanne to her lover.
She thought silence was best and safest ;
it was so long since the girl had spoken
of Edmund that she might have begun to
think less of him. Mademoiselle de Matagne's
clear, pure mind had always shrunk
from any manoeuvring to attain an object,
and now the feebleness of decaying nature
came to help this natural disposition to

leave things as they were, and in the
hands of God.

Jeanne had checked her tears, but she
could not trust her voice to speak, though
she smiled at her friend.

"I cannot see your future, my child,
but you will always be happy, Jeanne, for
you carry your happiness in your heart,
and it may be that the special happiness
you would have chosen for yourself would
not have made you so happy as the lot
decreed for you ; you have a great gift,
Jeanne, the power of making others happy
it is a divine gift, my child."

She lay quiet, watching the light on the
vine-leaves, and now and then giving a
smile to the girl beside her. All at once
she moved, and her eyes brightened.

There is Raoul," she said, " I hear a
horse coming up the road and scattering
the stones ; it is a horse at full gallop, it
is Raoul. Jeanne, you will not leave me
when Raoul comes."

There had come once bo Mademoiselle de
Matagne a vision of Jeanne as Routs
wife ; she would thus be united to her by-ties
which no chance could sever ; but
when she learned how dearly the girl loved
Bdmond Depuis, this idea, though it had
not time to grow into a hope, faded;
and in writing to Raoul she had spoken
of Jeanne as a dear young sister for whom
she asked for a place in his affections.

Very soon the barking of dogs and the
usual sounds of an arrival showed that
the invalid was right, and now steps were
coming along the gallery outside.

Jeanne's eyes were fixed on her patient ;
she knew that the doctor dreaded the
effect of any excitement, and the flickering
colour in Mademoiselle's face alarmed her.
A few weeks ago Jeanne would have felt
timid at the thought of seeing Monsieur
Raoul, of whom everyone spoke as if he
were oneof the greatest geniuses of his time,
but now all thought was taken from self

and mere personal feeling, in the longing
to spare suffering to her beloved friend.

And now the first meeting was over,
and Mademoiselle de Matane had not
fainted. She lay looking at her brother,
her hand clasped in his.

Jeanne looked up, for she felt that Monsieur
Raoul's eyes were bent on his sister.
The momentary glance showed her that he
was tall, that he wore spectacles, that he
had his sister's broad forehead and well-cut
mouth. It was difficult to judge of his
expression for just now it was that of sadness
; his heavy eyelids quivered as if they
feared to shed tears ; but he spoke cheerfully.


You will soon be better, Claude," he
said ; " and well enough to listen to my
new essay, you will like to hear it I know."
She pressed his hand,
"Yes, I can hear as well as ever." She looked
at him with proud satisfaction. " You shall
read it to me by-and-bye. Jeanne, this

VOL. II. L

is my brother Raoul. I told you he was
a savant. Raoul, this is my child, Jeanne
de Matagne."

Jeanne blushed deeply while she curtsied.
She wondered if Monsieur Raoul would
admit this enforced relationship ; but when
she looked up he was holding out his hand
and smiling.

If you are Claude's child, you must
be my niece," he said. " I shall expect to
be called uncle."

His gaiety cheered his sister.

Jeanne," there was a flash af the old
sparkle in her eyes, " I always told you
that Raoul had the family wits. He has
found out what I could not ; you must call
Eugene uncle when you speak to him."

The hidden meaning in the words set
the girl's lips quivering. Raoul looked at
her curiously.

I have not seen Eugene yet, dear old
fellow. They tell me he went down to
the village to meet me ; but I got a horse



at Comblain and rode over, so I missed him.
I will go to look for him now."

He bent down and kissed the invalid
tenderly, waved his hand to Jeanne, and
left them. Mademoiselle de Matagne's
eyes followed him yearningly.

I am glad I have seen him. It seems so
short a while ago since my mother died in
this room, and bade me be a mother to
Raoul ; he was only a baby then, and I was
twelve. He is a dear fellow, Jeanne."

He is like you," Jeanne said ; and yet
she felt as if she had not spoken truly, for
when Raoul smiled he did not look like his
sister.

l 2

CHAPTER XI.

THE BROTHERS OAJOT.

A FORTNIGHT has passed away. The
- bell has tolled and masses have been
said for the soul of Claude de Matagne.
The village is still depressed and silent ; and
Monsieur le Cure, his housekeeper Barbe
says, has not eaten a satisfactory meal
since the good lady died. Barbe told this
to old Jacques Cajot just now, as she
passed him on her way to the presbytery.
She has told him a good deal of news
besides, for doings at the Chateau are
soon known to the Cure's housekeeper,
Marie being one of her gossips, and Barbe
quickly tires of keeping news to herself.

When one has conscientious scruples
about repeating gossip, it is a salve to after-reflection
to feel one has been careful as to
one's listeners ; and as Barbe walked home,
slowly and gravely beside the river, as
befitted the housekeeper of the presbytery,
she thought to herself that it was a
charitable and benevolent act to have
provided poor old Jacques Cajot with something
to think about as he sat all day
sunning himself beside the river.

I would not tell what I hear to Auguste
or to Charles for all the world." This was
of course only a figure of speech, for
looking at flat-faced, bead-eyed Barbe,
it was difficult to imagine what she would
do with the world if it were offered her.
Augustus sulky and suspicious, and would
fancy much worse than was told him, and
Charles is a chattering shuttlecock, tossed
this way and that by every new fancy, and
ready to lay the village and its history at
the feet of anyone with a pretty face or a

tall figure. But, when I tell news to
Jacques, it is as if I buried it in the grotto
yonder."

By the time she reached the presbytery,
she was sure that she had conferred a
great benefit on silent Jacques Oajot.

Jacques did not sit still long after she
had gone away. First he struck his stick
sharply against the pebbles lying in the
road, and then he rose up stiffly and with
bent head mounted the inn steps. Barbe's
confidences had rarely passed his lips ; he
looked on them as mere woman's talk, and
he did not think highly of women except in
their proper place. They were made, he
considered, to clean and cook, and to sew.
Mademoiselle de Matagne had always been
excepted in his mind, and he doated on
Jeanne ; but then these were special exceptions
even among ladies, and Jacques
saw a good many ladies among the daily
visitors from Spa.

To-day Barbe's news had so surprised

him that his only refuge was in disbelief,
the natural resource of an upright but
narrow mind when matters beyond its
grasp are forced on its attention. It was
this narrowness of judgement in old
Jacques Cajot which let prejudice blind insight,
and which always led him to choose
Charles instead of Auguste as his favourite
companion. Charles was gentle, bright,
supple, alive to the old man's foibles, and
always ready to humour them; while
sulky Auguste," as he was generally
called, though inwardly he worshipped
Jacques with all the fervour of a warm
nature, considered it treason to feign
agreement which he did not feel, and
scorned to put himself in competition with
his popular brother.

Old Jacques was by nature melancholy,
and Charles's cheery smile had a fascination
for him that he could not have explained
even to himself. Auguste knew and felt
this, and had no petty rivalry of his

brother when he saw trouble on the beloved
old face which he knew Charles had
power to charm away. The two brothers
were standing in the passage as Jacques
came up the steps.

Go to him, Charles," said Auguste ;
there is something wrong with the dear
old man. Take him with you into the
bureau, and he will tell you''

Bah !" said Charles ; " he is only tired ;
old Barbe has worried him, that is all;
but I will go to him."

You are wrong, he is greatly troubled,"
said Auguste severely, " and you might read
it in his face if you had any thoughts
to spare from yourself, my gay friend,"
he muttered as Charles went to meet
the old man.

You are tired, brother," Charles said ;
lie down on your bed awhile."

Jacques shook his head.

"No, I thank you; when I am forced to
take to my bed, I will stay there, Charles;

at present I find myself strong and
hearty."

He straightened himself till he stood
erect  more than six feet high ; but
the troubled look had not left his
face.

What is the matter, eh ?" said Charles.
I fear that old woman has been teazing
you, Jacques."

The old man sat down in the high-backed
chair his brother pushed towards
him.

Poor Barbe," he said, " she came to
share her trouble with me, but it will
soon be the trouble of the whole village,
so I may as well tell you, my lad." He
patted Charles's arm. To him his youngest
brother was still the bright-eyed boy he
had watched once from infancy. " The
news is that the Chateau will be shut
up !" he sighed.

The Chateau ! Then what will become
of Monsieur Eugene ?"

Jacques's shoulders were drawn up towards
his ears.

Barbe says this is to be done for the
sake of Monsieur Eugene, the air does not
suit his health ; and meantime the Chateau
is to be shut up."

There was a pause. Charles was not
nearly so troubled as the old man was.
He did not care personally for Monsieur
Eugene, but suddenly his lower jaw
dropped, and a look of pain spread over
his bright face.

But Mademoiselle Jeanne, what will
become of her? She will not go away
with Monsieur Eugene. I have hit it,"
he clapped his hands together ; " I always
knew it would come to pass. She is to
marry Monsieur Raoul, and she will live
in Paris. "

Jacques was disturbed. He shook his
head slowly.

"You are giddy, Charles; that comes
of being young, or you would know that

a sad time like the present is not a time
for talk of marriage or rejoicing."

Charles looked sheepish  an expression
that came easily to his face.

I only wonder what will become of
Mademoiselle Jeanne," he said. " It will
be sad for her to be shut up with that
dull old gentleman. If I speak to him he
only nods. What a contrast to his sister,
eh I" Charles shrugged his shoulders ashe
held up his hands.

"The dear lady has arranged everything,"
Jacques spoke solemnly; he seldom reproved
Charles as he did Auguste, but he wished
him to feel now that they were not in
sympathy. He had been ruffled and
troubled by Barbe's news ; he wanted
quiet, and leisure to soothe this unusual
disturbance of his placid meditations, and
instead of soothing him, Charles had flung
into his perplexity a fresh element of disturbance.


Monsieur Raoul is too young to marry,

and I am not sure from what Barbe says
that he would care to marry Mademoiselle
Jeanne." Charles longed to speak, but
he restrained himself. " She is not, it appears,
a real De Matagne ; she had another
name," he paused to think, but he could
not remember; " but she will always have
the name now, and our Mademoiselle has
bequeathed to her a marriage portion."

Charles rubbed his hands, and his blue
eyes glistened.

That is good  that is right," he said ;
even if she is not a De Matagne, she is
always a charming lady  a prize for any
man."

Jacques sat with bent head ; he had no
modern ideas. The family at the Chateau
had been his one earthly object of reverence,
and it jarred him to think that he had
mistaken for one of these august personages
the only nobility with whom he had come
in contact  a mere dependant on the
bounty of Mademoiselle de Matagne. Ashe

sat so thinking, it seemed better to
him that the Chateau should be shut up,
far better than that this newly-created
Mademoiselle de Matagne should take the
place now left vacant by her benefactress.

Charles had been thinking too, now he
looked eagerly at his brother.

Did you hear what the other name
was ?" then, as Jacques shook his head ;
after all, perhaps the lady was right who
asked so many questions ; she said the
face was the same, but the name was
different."

What lady are you speaking of?"

You saw her, and you thought her
inquisitive ; but perhaps she was a friend
of Mademoiselle Jeanne, and wished her
well. I mean the tall lady who came with
two gentlemen from Spa."

Jacques looked sadder still.

Yes, I remember ; if that woman was
a friend of your Mademoiselle Jeanne, my
brother, then I am glad that the Chateau is

to be closed. That tall, evil-looking woman
was not made of the stuff that suits with a
De Matagne."

Charles longed to protest, but Jacques
had got a decided look on his face, which
his brother knew it was useless to go
against.

He walked to the window and looked
out. It seemed to him a strange fatality
that this friend of Mademoiselle Jeanne
should have missed her by such a chance.

"And now she is going to wander
about the world, and they may never
meet." He thought a few minutes longer,
curiosity was a weak point with Charles,
and it was strongly moved just now.

I must have a chat with old Barbe
myself," he said ; " she never forgets anything;
she will tell me what is the real
name of Mademoiselle Jeanne. "

CHAPTER Nit.

AT Disant.

sphere are two bridges over the Meuse
-*- at Dinant, and the river sparkles
most merrily between them, as if rejoicing
to have at last escaped from the check
laid on its power lower down the stream,
for even before reaching Bouvignes, a
huge stone lock checks its rapid flow.
One of these bridges is at Anseremme,
the picturesque group of cottages just
where the Meuse joins the lovely, winding
Lesse ; but the other, a solid stone
structure, leads directly from the Place,
on one side of which is the old slate-coloured

church of Dinant, to the suburb
on the farther side of the river.

A red brick, old-fashioned building
towers above the suburb. It has a quaint,
leisurely aspect, and to this Hospice, or
refuge for the sick and aged poor, Pauline
Dupuisis going this morning to pay one of
her frequent visits. Valerie her maid walks
behind her with a basketful of dahlias
and other autumn flowers. It is two
months now since Edmund and his wife
have settled themselves in Dinant in the
upper part of Yidonze's house.

Pauline looks very bright and gay. edmund
has been so much happier ever since
they came to Dinant, that the poor little
woman wishes to stay there always. She
has had no trouble or fuss about anything,
Monsieur Vidonze and his housekeeper
arranged it all, even to the letting of the
pretty little villa at Namur ; so that she
and Edmund are free as birds, able to
roam wherever inclination leads them.



She does not see as much as she did of her
husband, certainly. He is away all day
painting ; even when it rains he goes and
studies at Anseremme with some of his
friends the artists there.

Pauline is quite right in thinking her
husband happy; he is in the first flush of
that delicious enjoyment  a realised dream,
and as yet there has been no drawback.
He has found, not only the pursuit he
craved for, but fellowship and sympathy,
and help along with it, and all the generous
encouragement which artists in any craft
are so apt and ready to give to beginners.

He has never thought so little of Jeanne
Lahaye as he has done since his arrival
at Dinant; and it is pleasant to come
home to his pretty rooms and find
Pauline waiting for him with a bright
smile of welcome. She too amuses herself;
if she has nothing else to do
there is Mademoiselle Herkenne to talk
to when she is not busy ; for little Pauline

VOL. II. M

has soon found out that her " dear Elise"
can be very stern and repelling if she
intrudes on her during business hours.
Still the little woman finds occupation ;
she does not care for books, and now that
she is no longer shy she soon makes herself
a favourite among the kindly, sociable
Dinantais.

After a little some one told her of the
Hospice, and very soon she finds herself
welcomed there as a privileged visitor.
The sisters love her sweet face and
make much of her, and call her
Madame Pauline. She has crossed the
bridge now, and turning to the left beside
the river, she soon reaches the foot of
the flight of grey, worn steps, and
the sad-looking grass-grown avenue ; and
there is Sister Sophie standing at the gate
with a sweet subdued smile of welcome on
her face. The sister wears the dark-blue
gown and the enormous winged cap of a
Sister of Charity.

Welcome, dear Madame Pauline," she
says ; " you are like sunshine whenever yon
come ;" and then she holds out her hand
for the basket of flowers, and Valerie goes
away down the avenue, wondering to herself
whether it is quite right to spend so much
money on flowers for the poor pensioners
of the Hospice.

Sister Sophie leads the way before
Pauline, chattering as fast as possible.

Ah, but Madame must come at once
and see our poor Augustine," she says;
our poor old Augustine," she repeats,
tenderly, " she had a baby once and it
died, and her head has been strange ever
since. She was locked up for a long
while somewhere far away, and then she
grew wild, but now she is gentle and quiet ;
when we give her a doll, she kisses it and
thinks it is her baby. She is droll, the
poor old soul !"

As they pass the entrance to the kitchen
there rolls out of it another sister, very

m 2

short, and fat, and round, with rosy cheeks
and sparkling dark eyes.

Good day, Madame Pauline," she says,
will you come in and taste our soup ? I
am now making it."

Pauline goes into the large, airy kitchen,
with its huge stove and brass boilers in
the middle, looking rather like a miniature
steam-engine.

We had another lady to see us
yesterday," says Sister Sophie, while
Pauline tastes and praises the soupa
sweet lady, you will like her,
Madame ; or she is perhaps a friend of
yours."

"What is her name?" says Pauline;
"but I have scarcely any friends who
do not live at Namur. At present I
have only one or two acquaintances
here."

We do not know her name ; you
know Madame we do not ask the names of
our visitors, it is perhaps droll;" the

bright-eyed sister speaks fast, and laughs
so merrily at what she says, that it is
not easy to follow her. " We have not seen
her till yesterday  what a pity you should
have missed her ! she has not long arrived,
and she is here for some weeks, she tells
us. She is in the Chateau beside the
river, on the way to Bouvignes, with her
uncle, and he is an invalid, she says, the
poor man. We would soon cure him if he
came here," she says, with a peal of
merry laughter. " Sister Sophie there
has a skill with the confirmed sick ones
which is wonderful. I tell her she works
miracles."

Sister Sophie shakes her head, and
a blush spreads over her withered
face.

How can you say so, Sister Claire ?"
she says, gently. " It is God's doing, not
mine ; but our air on this side, Madame,
might bring the dead to life, it is another
air altogether from that which is breathed

over the way under the side of those tall
cliffs."

Jolly Sister Claire laughs till she shows
all her white, firm teeth.

"Yes, yes, Madame, Sister Sophie is
right, our air is pure and beautiful, and
yet over the way there in the town
they think theirs so much the best ;
we are not beautiful over here, it is
true, but we can look at them, and we
have the air, so I think we are best off,"
she adds, with clear ringing laughter.
Does Sister Sophie take you into the
garden sometimes, Madame, to look at the
views ? they are beautiful."

Pauline flushes, she feels guilty ; what
Edmund says is true, she never notices
beautiful things unless they are shown to
her.

Yes, I have been once or twice in the
garden, Sister Claire," she says, humbly,
but I was talking to the poor invalids, I
did not think of the view."

Of course the dear lady did not ;"
tender-hearted Sophie feels as if the visitor
had been rebuked, " she is always so full
of goodness to our invalids that she has
no time to consider her own enjoyment ;
and one can only see the view here and
there, you know, Sister Claire, now that
the rose-hedge is covered with leaves."

Yes, yes," aud Sister Claire nods to
Pauline as she passes out of the door ;
and then she laughs at her brass pans, and
looks to see if her soup wants skimming;
the merest trifle makes these innocent
souls happy.

Sister Sophie takes a side path which
leads direct to the garden.

There are many of our patients out
here to-day," she says ; " the air is soft and
warm, and the sunshine cheers them."

Through a simple iron arch, clustered
with autumn roses, they reach the long
straight formal garden, backed by hedges,
with vegetable plots bordered with yellow

flowers. Along the path, on each side, is
a row of chairs and benches, and to-day
these are filled with sickly-faced women
and girls of all ages; there is even a
merry-faced cripple of eight years old.

Almost all the pale faces smile when
they see Pauline, she is so sweet and
gracious to them all, quite free from the
shy restraint which spoils her manner and
robs it of its natural grace when she is
with her equals. She has not much to
say, but she remembers each by name,
and her sweet face has a charm for them.

Presently a grotesque, round figure rolls
up to them, a sort of caricature of Sister
Claire, with small bead-like black eyes.

"Well, Mother Rosalie," says Sister
Sophie, "I thought you had settled to
stay with Augustine ? Is she asleep ?"

"Asleep! Dame, there is not a wink
in her eyes ; she only cries out for you,
Sister, so I promised to come and fetch
you."

The poor child ! I will go to her.
She is seventy," she says to Pauline, " but
she is a child for all that. Well then,
Mother Rosalie, you must show this lady
our view, and then you must take her
to the arbour to rest until I come
back."

She nodded and curtseyed and went
away, and then the rolling old woman,
who seemed to have round soles to her
feet, took a scrutinizing look at Pauline,
and walked on slowly beside her.

"I have seen Madame already, she was
here last week, and I saw her in church
yesterday evening."

I did not see you," said Pauline.

The old woman shrugged her shoulders
till she looked more like a ball than ever.

It is always so, Madame, and it is
right ; there is nothing to look at in a
poor ugly old creature like me, but a
pretty young lady is quite another matter.
Come this way, Madame, if you please,

and you will see that we have a better
view from this side than those who live
opposite us."

Pauline thought the town looked lovely
nestling among trees close under the lofty
grey cliff, which in some places literally
overhung the houses ; she wished edmund
was with her to see the view. The
slate-like greyness of the bulbous-spired
church detached itself from the silvery
gray of the rock, and above all towered
the fort. Now and then among the trees
and houses came glimpses of colour, the
flowers in gardens hanging as it were
on the steep cliff-side. The Meuse bordered
the one long street, and seemed to
pen it in between rock and river; on
the right the water glistened on till it
broadened at its junction with the silver
Lesse, but on the left the many-coloured
houses of the town came almost to the
water's edge  as it took its way down
to Bouvignes  each story projecting a

little beyond that below, the lowermost
supported on wooden brackets,
so that, seen in profile, this part of the
merry town of Dinant might be thought
to have put on stilts to keep itself
safe out of the way of any inroads of the
river.

Yellow and blue, green and pink, there
was plenty of variety in the colour of the
fronts of houses above the brackets, and
this was tempered by wreaths of vine
clinging round the windows and festooning
small balconies, in which gleamed flame-coloured
nasturtiums and rosy balsams.
The colour delighted Pauline far more than
the picturesque beauty of the whole scene
and its wonderful variety.

Why do you not have more flowers in
your garden ?" she asked old Rosalie ; " all
flowers seem to do well in Dinant. The
gardens behind the houses in the town are
full of flowers, even those gardens made
on the cliff itself have plenty in them ; and

wherever I walk I find wild flowers. You
seem to have only marigolds."

Rosalie looked perplexed.

"We have plenty of roses, Madame,
but they are over, and in May we have
Marguerites; but our gardener has only
time to plant and care for the vegetables,
they are necessary ; and the marigolds
look gay."

Pauline thought that if she stayed at
Dinant, the invalids at the Hospice should
have gayer flowers next year; and then
she walked back to the long straight path,
and was curtseyed to and smiled at by the
knitters, to whom she seemed always to
find something to say. When the time
came for leaving, she had quite a list of commissions
from them against her next visit.
Rosalie wanted some white wool ; and
Catherine wished for twine for netting ;
and Marie, a dark-eyed, limping creature,
wanted so much to learn to embroider.

Pauline did not say No to any request, and

she went away quite happy in the feeling
that she was of use. She wished Edniond
would come and see her sick friends ; but
she knew he never had time to spare, so
the little woman was obliged to be contented.


CHAPTER XIII.

IN HER ELEMENT.

TT was still early afternoon, and at this
-*- hour Pauline usually clambered the
rather narrow, steep staircase without so
much as looking into the room where photographs
were sold ; but as she passed its open
doorway to-day she saw a lady come out,
and looking beyond her into the room, she
saw her friend Elise leaning back against
the dark wall pale as if she were fainting.
Pauline ran in without ceremony.

What is the matter, my friend ?" she
said. "You are ill." She snatched up a
water-bottle that stood on the table, and

sprinkled a few drops in the face of Mademoiselle
Herkenne.

Bah !" Elise laughed, almost rudely ;
what a fanciful child you are still, Pauline !
I am tired, I am not faint, that is all, I
have been standing some time, and now
I have no time to spare. See, I must put
all these photographs back where they came
from, they are not likely to be wanted."

Please let me help you," said Pauline;
then as she gathered up some of the views,
she went on, " but these are very pretty ;
they would please Edmund ; may I take
them upstairs, if they will not be wanted,
and he can see them when he returns.
They are views on the Meuse, are they
not ? and he so loves the Meuse."

Yes, it is the Meuse; but your husband
has seen it often ; he will not care for
these; that is where Madame Boulotte
lives." She pointed to a view of Rimayy.

We are going to see her one day," said
Pauline. " She says now we have come

so much nearer she will not let us off
from our promised visit ; and our cousin
Jules, Monsieur Baoonfoy, you know, says
that her house is a pattern for any housewife."


You have not been here long, and
you talk of going to Eiinay," said Mademoiselle
Herkenne; "what a gad-about
you are, child !"

Ah ! but we shall come back. I only
want to go for a day or two. Who was
that I met as I came in ?" she said, inquisitively;
"she is the grandest-looking
person I have seen here."

She did not look at her friend just then ;
her eyes were fixed on one of the views she
had gathered up ; she was gazing unconsciously
at the landing-place in front of
the cottage, where Edmund had parted
from Jeanne Lahaye. Mademoiselle Her-kennel
was so much agitated that she could
hardly speak, and yet she spoke fast lest
Pauline should look up and see the anguish

which she knew had struggled into her
eyes.

How can I tell ? she is only a stranger
passing through, I fancy. She asked for
views on the Meuse, and gave me a
good deal of trouble  more than she is
worth." She spoke angrily, and sat down
with her face turned away from Pauline.

Never mind," said Pauline, gaily, " I
am sorry she tired you, dear friend ; but
I am grateful to her for having found out
these views, they are just what Edmund
likes ; then I may take them  say Yes, like
a kind Elise."

She went timidly, and bending down
kissed her friend's forehead, not quite
certain how her caress would be received.
She had never succeeded in shaking off the
old fear of her former governess. To her
surprise Mademoiselle Herkenne rose suddenly,
and catching her in her arms kissed
her vehemently ; then she pushed her
away and laughed.

VOL. II. N

Go upstairs, naughty child," she said,
carelessly ; " you are a sad time waster,
Pauline. Take care of those views, remember."


When the door closed she began to walk
up and down, the long sweeping lines of
her figure showing how perfect it was,
and also how perfect was the pose of her
graceful head.

"That child is a little fool," she said, "only
yesterday she told me how much happier
her life was here than at Namur, and now if
she takes her Edmund to Bimay, she will
kill her own happiness. Perhaps Depuis
will not go there ; if he really cares for
Pauline he will not be such a fool as to go
and rake up past memories ; and yet, if he
stays here, he is in constant danger of
meeting Jeanne."

She stood still, clasping her long slender
fingers over her head. This was the first
thinking time she had found since Jeanne
had come into the shop. Elise's thoughts

went back to that moment ; her heart had
seemed to stand still when the living likeness
of her rival had come in, with a frank,
unconscious smile on her face. And what
a face it was ! Elise closed her eyes and
saw it close beside her. How little justice
the portrait had done to the fair transparent
skin, or to the dark lustre of those
tender brown eyes ! Every feature spoke
to Elise a language she was not used to,
the language of truth and noble purpose.
No, Pauline was safe, she thought ; even
if Edmund were disposed to betray his
wife, Jeanne would not give him a moment's
hearing.

M Bah," she began to walk up and
down again in vehement passion, u what
do I care ? let them do what they like ;
it would be better for me if Depuis
were to forsake the foolish little doll
altogether and persuade his old love
to listen to him. What is to become of me
if Antoine comes and finds the girl here ?

n 2

I thought her fixed in that Chateau ; who
could have thought of such a fortuitous
chance as this ? But she said she was
staying some way off, so she may not
often come into the town ; but the risk 
Heavens ! the risk is enough to turn
one's hair white in even thinking of
it."

She forced herself to sit down. At any
moment a customer might come in, for the
outer door stood always open, and one of
the labours of Elise's new life was to establish
a character for strict reticence and
propriety.

That every black has its white is a true
proverb ; and the white of this black trial
to Elise lay in the necessity it enforced for
using her faculty for intrigue. In one way
or another she must get Jeanne Lahaye
to leave Dinant. Antoine Vidonze might
come any day; might walk into the
shop and find himself face to face
with this fair-haired, noble-looking girl !

Just then Elise's eyes had a cruel glow in
them ; she had been reading in the local
guide-book the story of the four sons of
Amon, and how the Emperor Charlemagne
caused weights to be fastened to
the feet of their good horse Bayard, so
that he might drown in the Meuse. She
gave a long gasping sigh. If this girl
could take the place of the good horse and
be flung from the middle of the bridge 
Elise closed her eyes  that would be a
blessed deliverance.

It seemed to her that, if Jeanne still
loved Edmund, her life could never be
happy. Well then, if she loved him,
would she marry Yidonze? She paused
long at this point, balancing this way
and that ; but her face grew sadder and
sterner.

It would matter little to him if she
does love Depuis," she said ; " her very
resistance and coldness will only serve to
increase his passion ; if he sees her and

learns she is free, he will make her marry
him by one means or another."

Once in her scheming she thought that,
if Jeanne learned that her old lover was in
Dinant with his wife, she would try to
escape him ; but even this was doubtful.
She might have ceased to love Edmund
Depuis. It was all like some terrible
nightmare ; if she could only waken and
find that it was a dream, and that she
had only seen in sleep this tall, fair
girl, with sweet brown eyes and wavy
fair hair !

A man's step coming in from the street
made Elise start, and grow white again.
It was only Monsieur Depuis, with his
sketching block under his arm. He did
not care for his wife's friend, and unless
the glass door stood open, he rarely asked
leave to go into the shop. There was
something simple and repelling to edmund
in the tall, dark woman ; and he was
not quite pleased with the influence she

exercised over Pauline; yet he felt that
he owed her something for the companionship
his wife found in his long
absences; for now that the weather
was clear and bright he used to spend
whole days beside the river, and did
not come back till evening. Pauline
usually opened the door upstairs before he
reached the landing, and put both arms
round his neck and kissed him, before he
could get into the room.

It was very pleasant to get such a loving
welcome, and to yield up his sketching-block
to her eager little hands and fling himself
into an easy-chair; but to-day Pauline
had gone to her room to lay aside her bonnet,
and had not heard her husband come in.
The sitting-room was very bare of ornaments
compared with the pretty little
drawing-room at Namur, but Pauline had
scattered the bundle of photographs allover
the centre table, and they at once
caught Edmund's eyes.

He looked lazily at first, but all at once
he got up out of his lounging chair and
took up one of the views.

He could scarcely believe his eyes. There
was the beloved cottage, and a boat was
fastened to the post at the landing-place ;
there was Merette's stable, it seemed as if
presently its closed door would open and
Jeanne would come forth with the smile
on her face which no one else had ever had
for him.

A sob burst from Edmund, and then a
burning tear fell on the photograph.

CHAPTER XIV.

A PROPOSAL.

ll/TEANWHILE Jeanne was walking
 slowly towards her home on the
farther bank of the Meuse. It was a long
walk, almost as far off as Bouvignes ; and as
the house stood at some distance from the
road beside the river, it was rough walking,
there being little traffic in this direction.
Jeanne stumbled over a stone, for she
was paying no heed to the present, she
was altogether in that past, which the sight
of her old home had made more than ever
real to her.

" Does the old home look like that
now ?" she said softly to herself, and then

she remembered that by railway it was
only a short journey ; how much she should
like to see it again ! Why should she not
go the next time Monsieur Raoul came to
visit his brother, and find her way to the
presbytery and see Monsieur Hallez and
Merette ?

Her eyes sparkled, she looked radiant
with happiness. There was only one
drawback, she might meet with Vidonze,
and then all the kind care and forethought
which had shielded her for so many months
would be made useless. Still, as Jeanne
walked on, thinking, it seemed to her, unworldly
as she was, that as Mademoiselle
de Matagne she was far safer and more
independent than she had been as the poor
orphan, Jeanne Lahaye. Monsieur Eugene
indeed was too gentle and timid to protect
her ; but Monsieur Raoul was powerful, he
had a masterful way with him which Jeanne
thought must hold even Antoine Yidonze
in check ; only  and here Jeanne carried



her head still more erect, and a slight
flush rose on her pale cheek  she did not
want to put herself under an obligation to
Monsieur Raoul.

He had stayed on at Chateau Mont-cour
till everything was settled, and many
of the arrangements that had to be carried
out had thrown him much with Jeanne ;
and although when he took leave of her
he had thanked her for her devotion to his
brother and sister, and had been even
complimentary about her talent for business,
still Jeanne rejoiced in his absence.

He is quite different from his brother
and sister; with them, in spite of their
cleverness and goodness, I always felt at
ease, but Monsieur Raoul is so polite, he
labours so hard to make me believe I am
his equal, that I am convinced he looks
on me as a bit of common clay, and feels
himself to be china. So he is," she laughed
brightly, " so they all are ; he need not
fear I could ever really forget the difference

between us, only I hate fuss and formality,
and Monsieur Raoul makes me feel
stiff and cold."

Change of scene had fulfilled Mademoiselle
de Matagne's hopes; Monsieur Eugene
had improved both in health and spirits.
He was far less dreamy than he had
been at Montcour, and often surprised
Jeanne by his cheerfulness. They had
only planned a few day's stay in Dinant,
and then they were to visit Auvergne and
the South of France ; but the sight of the
old house near Bouvignes where much of
his boyhood had been spent, had roused
so many pleasant memories that, after a
day or two he asked Jeanne if she should
dislike to spend a month in his old home.
Jeanne had rejoiced. It seemed to her
that she was more likely to gain tidings
of Edmund in his own country than elsewhere
; and to-day, when she had for the
first time gone into the town of Dinant, a
view of Rimayy in a window had seemed to

bring her close to the cottage beside the
river. She went in to the photographer's,
and had forgotten how time passed while she
gazed at the well-known scenes. She had
bought a view of the cottage and its surroundings
for Monsieur Eugene ; she
wondered whether he would recognise it ;
perhaps he might be tempted to go with
her on her expedition.

1 will not ask him ; I would so much
rather go alone. He knows nothing about
Edmund, and I could never tell him."

She thought that, when she found
Edmund, they would go together to
Monsieur Eugene, and tell him all their
story, and tell him, too, the interest that
his sister had taken in it. He had been
told by his sister all that related to Vidonze,
and he had been very indignant at his persecution
; but Jeanne had entreated her
friend to be silent about her love for
Edmund Depuis.

She found Monsieur Eugene sitting on

a bench in front of the square grass plot
which had the Chateau, an ugly stone-building,
on three sides, and a high iron-railing
on the other.

He looked much healthier than he
had looked at Chateau Montcour; there
was even a faint glow of colour on his
withered cheeks. He was reading a letter,
but he glanced up at the sound of footsteps
on the crushed slate walk.

Here you are at last, my child," he
smiled at her. " I thought you were never
coming back."

It is a long way to the town, and I
stayed looking at photographs. Look,
uncle, did you ever see a place like this ?"
She opened her parcel and showed him the
view of the cottage by the river.

"Yes, yes," he said, "I remember it
well ; what a charming picture it makes !
If I were younger and stronger we
would go there some day, Jeanne.
However, you may, perhaps, before long

have a more suitable companion. " He
said the last words formally, and then
he gave a keen look at Jeanne. She
blushed ; did he really know her story,
and was he going to give her news of
Edmund ? Monsieur Eugene's face reflected
the change he saw in hers. It
evidently took him by surprise, and he
looked at the letter which he still held in
his hand. Jeanne saw that something
troubled the timid little man ; she sat
down beside him on the bench.

I have quite a history to tell you,"
she said. " The town is very pretty and
bright with nice shops and peeps of
charming gardens behind the houses,
but I forget that when you were here as a
boy, you must have known it very well."

No, I seldom went into Dinant, I
always liked the country best. I remember
we used to go in for the fair;
and also I remember the huge brown cakes
that used to fill the shop windows ; there

is one now, I believe, at Chateau Montcour
a huge flat cake representing the town
of Dinant ;" then his voice changed, and
he said anxiously, " You would prefer to
live in a town, Jeanne ?"

Jeanne saw the answer he wanted, but
even to humour Monsieur Eugene she
could not deceive him.

Yes, for some reasons," she said ;
not so much for actual liking, but one
seems to get more fellowship, and also it
is easier to get information." Monsieur
Eugene sighed, but Jeanne turned round to
him before he could speak. " But we are
near enough to a town here," she said ;
we can go in whenever we choose, and
yet we have the quiet and leisure of a
country life."

Then you would not care to live ina
great city like Paris for instance ?"
Before she could answer he went on hurriedly
: " Wait, dear child ; I have no
right to get at your wishes in this way. I

have to speak to you on a very important
subject. My brother Raoul," he looked
at the letter in his hand, and cleared his
throat, nervously, " spoke to me about
you, Jeanne, the day he went away from
Montcour."

Jeanne had listened in surprise to his
unusual flow of speech.

Ah !" she said, impulsively, " I knew
it ; Monsieur Raoul wants to separate us,
uncle."

It is true," Eugene looked disturbed,
he had not thought that Jeanne was in
Raoul's secret, " he wishes to take you
from me in a sense; and yet as he says, if
I can only conquer this selfish shrinking
that I have from the noise of a great town,
we need not separate."

Jeanne felt chilly cold ; it was true then,
her only real friend in this family had
been Mademoiselle de Matagne, and now
tha brothers would let her go out into the
world friendless and unprotected. Jeanne

VOL. II. o

was frank and fearless, but she was very
reticent ; she had been brought up in
strict ideas, and there was something that
shocked these ideas in the notion of
living alone in the world, with no one to
advise or protect her. Next moment a
rush of joyful hope came to help her
timid fear. If she were free she could go
where she pleased, she should be able to
find Edmund ; she would go at once to
Monsieur Hallez, and he would tell her
what to do. She looked up ; Monsieur
Eugene's pale, timid eyes were full of
expectation.

You would not like to live in Paris ?"
she said. " Mademoiselle Claude always
said it would not do for you to live in
Paris."

Monsieur Eugene smiled ; it seemed to
him that the girl understood his meaning,
and yet that she was not dealing with
him frankly.

I must do as Eaoul wishes," he said,

in a hesitating voice. " My dear child, be
has asked me, as your guardian, to give
you to him in marriage."

Jeanne started up from her chair ; she
stood facing Monsieur Eugene, pale and
agitated.

There is some mistake ; Monsieur
Raoul cannot mean to do me such an
honour," she said, proudly.

There is no mistake, dear child, and if
dear Claude had lived she would have rejoiced.
Raoul spoke of it at Montcour,
but our sorrow was then too fresh; I
could think of nothing else," he said,
sadly. " I asked him to wait ; now he
writes to me and asks for an answer. He
has to give up the rooms in which he has
lived all these years, and he says it is
better to have the affair settled before he
takes a new apartment. May he come
and speak to you himself, and you will say
Yes, Jeanne?"

o 2

No, Monsieur Eugene, I cannot say
Yes. I do not love your brother."

The perplexed old man put his hand
up to his forehead. He knew nothing
about girls; it seemed to him that they
should marry the husbands chosen for them
how else could they marry ? He had
not asked Jeanne to love Raoul. What
notions had she got into her head ?

"My child," he gave her a fatherly
smile, "it is now that I more than ever
miss Claude. She would have put this
before you differently ; she would tell you
so much better than I can that love comes
with marriage : every good woman loves
her husband."

Jeanne's spirit rose in rebellion. It
seemed to her that these two brothers
meant to dispose of her as they chose.
Her tenderness for the kind old man
checked her anger ; but she was indignant
with Monsieur Raoul.

She felt all at once shy and estranged

from Monsieur Eugene, and she stood
looking at the wall behind him, wondering
how she could make him understand.

"I have perhaps been abrupt," there
was a pathetic sweetness in his voice that
instantly brought back Jeanne's sympathy.
But you must forgive me, child. I am
only an old solitary bachelor, who has lived
so long shut up that he has almost forgotten
he was ever young. I wish Raoul
would come and plead his own cause."

No, indeed," said Jeanne quickly, " it
is much better not. I am sure Monsieur
Eaoul does not love me, and even if he did
I do not love him."

Monsieur Eugene looked very sad.

It is all wrong," he said, more to himself
than to Jeanne; "I have placed it
wrongly before her, and she cannot understand.
A woman would have managed so
much better." Then he said humbly to
the girl who stood before him : " We will
not talk about it any more, my child. You

shall think it over quietly, and perhaps
you will see that it would be a good arrangement.
But my Jeanne must not be
troubled about anything. I promised this
to Claude  go in and rest, child, you are
tired."

She was glad to leave him; but she was
not tired ; her whole nature was in revolt
against Raoul de Matagne. She had
thought him selfish ; now she saw she had
not wronged him. He did not love her,
but he wished to have a wife ; and though
he knew that his brother's health must
suffer in such a town as Paris, he thought
it would be " a good arrangement " to have
Monsieur Eugene to live with him, so that
Jeanne might watch over him. Jeanne
was very angry; she walked up and down
her room, unable to calm the tempest of
feeling that stirred her so strongly. But
as she grew quieter it occurred to her that
perhaps Monsieur Raoul meant to do her a
kindness.

After all," she thought, " he could of
course marry anyone he chooses ; and if he
wants to marry me it is plainly only from
compassion ; he does not love me."

The compassion was galling; but Jeanne
was too just not to see that Monsieur Raoul
meant to be kind. He offered her a home
and a position, and he did not propose to
separate her from her best friend.

CHAPTER XV.

THE AFTER-CROP.

TTALlDRIE stood tapping at her mistress's
door.

There is a visitor for Madame," she
said, with an aggrieved air ; " It is Monsieur
Baconfoy, and he has brought luggage
with him. Madame did not tell me that
she expected a visitor."

I knew nothing about it," said Pauline ;
but she felt pleased; she knew that Edmund
would be pleased to see his cousin. She
found them both in the salon, and Baconfoy
congratulated her on the improvement in
her looks.

You are a good advertisement for the

healthiness of the town," he said, " and
Edmund is as brown and hale as one of the
marble cutters on the cliffs. I want to
see some of these famous sketches he has
been making."

Edmund seemed quiet ; his wife thought
he would have shown more pleasure at
seeing his cousin. While the sketches were
being examined she stood gathering up her
photographs. Baconfoy came to the table
and began to look at them.

Charming," he said. " I wonder you
have not painted this, Edmund," and he
pointed to the view of Jeanne's cottage.

It is not here," he said, carelessly ; " It
is much farther up the Meuse."

You know where it is then, Edmund ?"
said Pauline. " If it is not very far you
will take me to see it. Oh, you must,
indeed you must ; I feel as if I must see
that cottage, it is charming."

Baconfoy turned to the back of the
photograph, and he saw written in pencil,

The Meuse, near Rimayy." A revelation
came to him. He looked at Edmund, and
he understood the grave, constrained
manner and serious face ; then he looked
at Pauline, and he thought Edmund weak
and foolish.

"Why don't you take your wife to
Rimayy ?" he said. " Why do we not all go
and see our charming friend the widow?
and then we can find out this view. What
do you say, Madame Pauline ?"

Pauline clapped her little hands eagerly;
then the joy faded out of her face as she
looked at her husband.

You do not want to go Edmund ?"
she said. " Ah, it is because of the
pictures you are painting at Auseremme."

Baconfoy looked steadily in the young
man's face, with a slight curl in the square
corners of his full, firm lips.

Never mind your pictures, my boy,"
he said, " you owe some politeness to
Madame Boulotte, you were always talking

of her kindness when you were at Rimayy."

Edmund looked dull and uninterested.

Yes," he said, " we will go and see
her before we leave Dinant ; but not just
now. I have a sketch in hand near the
town, and every day changes the colour
of the foliage."

Bah ! and what if it does ? You are
not an artist working for your bread, you
can afford to throw away a sketch. Ma
foi ! you used to call me a woman-hater ;
but yet if I saw my wife wanting something
very much I should think I ought to
give way. Aha, my friend !"

Pauline gave him a saucy smile.

You are improving," she said. " I shall
tell Madame Boulotte that I begin to have
hopes of you."

Baconfoy pinched her cheek ; he flinched
a little however at her words. It was very
surprising to him that this little weakness,
of which he was thoroughly ashamed, could
have made itself apparent to anyone. He

was conscious, too, of a little duplicity.
The photograph had served as an easy approach
to the subject ; but he knew that
he had left Namur determined to pay
another visit to the friendly widow of
Rimayy. Why should he not go and see
her? She amused him, and she interested
him also ; and at their age there
was no chance that anything more than
these pleasant meetings would ever occur
between them. Still he thought Pauline
silly and tiresome to joke on the subject; but
then she was silly, and she was a woman ;
he had no right to expect wisdom from
her. Madame Boulotte was also a woman,
but her tact concealed the natural deficiencies
of her sex. Perhaps when Pauline
grew older she also would become wiser ;
but he thought she could never hope to belike
Madame Boulotte.

Well," he said to Pauline, " if Edmund
will not go, I shall go without him  will
you come too ?"

Pauline sidled up to her husband, and
clasped her fingers round his arm.

"I will not go," she whispered, "if you
do not wish it; but I do long to see if
there really is a place so beautiful as that
looks," she pointed to the photograph.

Edmund smiled at her, and then when
he saw his cousin looking at him he felt
annoyed.

Oh, yes, we will go one day," he said.
Now which is Jules' room ?" Then seeing
Pauline's perplexed look. " I forgot to
tell you he was coming," he said ; " I put
the letter into my pocket, and did not read
it till I reached Anseremme. Go, my
child," he said kindly, "and settle with
Valerie."

You are a fine host," said Baconfoy
secretly he was rejoiced to see Pauline
leave the room  " but what is the matter ?
Why don't you want to go and see Madame
Boulotte ?"

Edmund turned away.

I do wish to see her, and we will go
some day  did you not hear me say so to
Pauline?"

Baconfoy followed him, and put his hand
on his shoulder.

My good fellow," he said, " it is useless
to fence with me, who have known you
all your life. You do not want to go to
Rimayy. Good  I know it, and see it, and
respect your motive for staying away ; but
I tell you the motive is a mistake."

Edmund had flushed while his cousin
spoke, now he looked at him and laughed.

You are too wise for once. I am
interested in my picture, and I do not care
to leave it."

"Yes, yes; you see that motive; but
I see more than you do because I am only
an outside observer, my friend. You have,
we will say that you have, a picture in
your house, and, while you have a fever,
this picture bears to you a terrible aspect ;
you shut up the room in which it hangs ;

you forsake the house perhaps, and you go
and live in another. The longer you keep
from looking at that picture the more
terrible it will seem to you ; it will at last
become monstrous in your imagination.
Well then, go in broad daylight and look
at it ; not only will you find that the terror
which besets you has chiefly been self-created,
and that the picture has become
quite common-place, but  "

"Bravo, you are becoming quite imaginative,
Jules; it would serve you right,
however, if I suggested that you are impatient
yourself to get to Rimayy  "

Pauline put her pretty head in at the
door.

Come with me, cousin Jules," she
said ; " Mademoiselle Herkenne has given
me the choice of two rooms for you,
and I want to know which you like
best."

Edmund blessed her in his heart. He
greatly resented his cousin's clear-lightness

and, above all, his outspoken interference.
Yet the words stuck. It was
possible that he had been cherishing a
mere phantom. Since he had left Namur
he had had less temptation to think of
Jeanne. The outward distraction given
by his painting, had helped him to keep the
door firmly closed on the thoughts which
his better nature felt to be a wrong to
Pauline's trusting love ; but the sudden
sight of the photographs had flung this
door violently open. He had gone back
to the past in one instant, and to that
time of unconscious love when he and
Jeanne had lived only for one another 
when the future had meant his next meeting
with her, and the past had been filled
with her looks and words  when it had
seemed as if every meeting must be
sweeter than the last, and yet when it
came it had only left a more impatient
longing for the next. Baconfoy's arrival
had disturbed this retrospect, and when

Pauline came in, a feeling of resentment
rose.

It was she who had wrecked his happiness.
He had told her he could not offer
her love, and she had said she would be
satisfied ; but she had not kept her word.
Except on that one evening, he had never
spoken an unfriendly word to her; but
more than once she had been sad and
silent. She was far less demonstrative
and caressing than she had been at first,
as if she feared to weary him. Their
marriage had been a sad mistake. He had
felt while they urged him to go to Rimayy
that, if the mere view had had power to
revive feeling so strongly, the close
presence of all that was connected with
Jeanne would be fatal to his peace. But
the idea thrown out by Baconfoy had taken
a strong hold on him.

The torment which the sight of Pauline
had roused had made him feel that life was
not worth having while it lasted ; he was

VOL. II. p

fettered  all freedom bad left him. At
any price he must be freed from this
burden. These were only some of the
throbbing, rebellious thoughts that crowded
on him, driving his forbearance and any
other long-suffering faculty out of sight ;
but this notion of Jules' was new. He
stood thinking. After all, it might be
possible that Jules was right  till lately
he had thought harshly of Jeanne ; it
was chiefly imagination that had caused
the revulsion. It might be that he had
let imagination colour his feelings.

Why should I not try F " he said, " I
cannot be worse off than I am to-day."

He turned away with a look of disgust
at his own powerlessness, for he felt
utterly powerless against the tide of love
which was sweeping over him, and which
seemed to be spreading into a wide
channel that separated him entirely from
Pauline.

Edmund closed his eyes and clenched

his hands nervously. At that moment all
duty seemed blotted out  the most distinct
feeling of which he was conscious was
a longing to be freed from his wife.

p 2

CHAPTER XVI.

THE COTTAGE BESIDE THE RIVER.

11/rONSIEUR, BACONFOY and Madame
*- Boulotte stood at the door of the
widow's pretty little house at Rimayy. A
carriage had just driven away in which
were Edmund and Pauline.

There is nothing like youth," she said,
softly ; but at the same time there was a
question in her voice as though she would
like the assertion to be contradicted.

Baconfoy looked at her sharply.

I am not so sure, of that Madame, I
manage to find life pleasant; but what
do you mean by saying this now ? "

I mean it is delightful to see that

pretty young creature so full of love and
happiness. I only wish my brother Antoine
would marry. I thought he was
coming this way."

Yes, I believe he is coming." Monsieur
Baconfoy did not add, as he might
have added, that he had hurried his
cousins to Rimayy so as to avoid a meeting
with Yidonze at his sister's house. " Are
you thinking of any special person,
Madame ? " he went on ; " his housekeeper
for instance ? Ah, she is a fine, well-grown
woman !"

He reddened as he saw the widow's lip
curl.

No, not his housekeeper, Monsieur ;
I fancy my brother can do better than
that."

Baconfoy shrugged his shoulders ; he
felt perverse.

You have not seen her, I think."

No ; but if I visit Edmoud and his
wife I shall see her before long. She is no

doubt quite suited to her position, and she
had better remain in it."

Baconfoy felt himself snubbed, and yet
he did not feel pugnacious or vexed with
his companion; he only pitied Madame
Boulotte for being a woman ; it was not
to be supposed she could be quite free
from the pettiness of her sex. He changed
the subject.

Then you are now contented with my
cousin's choice ?"

Why not ?" she looked at him curiously.
If my friend Edmund is always as happy
as he seemed to-day, surely he has done
wisely."

Baconfoy winced ; he did not feel at
liberty to betray Edmund even to this
sympathetic friend ; but he had not
been host of La Grue for twenty years
without learning the art of self-control, and
his face told no tales even to quick-witted
Madame Boulotte.

Yes  she is a sweet, loving little creature,"

he said, " and I hope they are
having a happy day together."

She was right in saying that Edmund
Depuis looked bright. Monsieur Baconfoy
had been very amusing during the journey,
and the freshness and beauty of the early
morning had been exhilarating. Then
had come Madame Boulotte's hearty welcome
and delicious breakfast ; and when
Pauline proposed to drive over without
delay to see the cottage, Edmund had
given a smiling consent as if it were an
expected part of the day's programme.
The sparkle and gay humour of his companions
helped his natural unreality ; he
was going to please Pauline, and for the
time he felt as bright as he looked, as he
waved his hand, and then kissed a farewell
to Madame Boulotte.

The road was picturesque, but it did not
suggest painful memories. He had always
gone to see Jeanne in his boat ; and Pauline
went on chatting merrily, enchanted that

her husband listened, and did not, as he
so often did, take up a newspaper, or look
away absorbed in his thoughts. She was
laughing about the pair they had left on
the doorsteps, and wondering if anything
would come of their acquaintance.

I fancy not," Edmund said ; " and they
are such good friends now, it would bea
pity if they married and did not
jigree."

They seem too old to marry," said
Pauline. " I can never imagine what
middle-aged people can find to say to one
another when they marry. They can find
nothing to admire in each other, to begin
with."

Jules says he thinks Madame Boulotte
very handsome," said Edmund.

Pauline pouted her pretty lips, and
shrugged her shoulders.

I suppose when I am her age I shall
see things with changed eyes ; but I can't
bear to think of growing old. Oh! Edmund,

you could not like me if I grew to be a
fat old woman."

Edmund laughed.

Be comforted," he said ; " people who
live together do uot see the change in
one another ; it comes too gradually."

Ah ! but, Edmund," she said, softly, " if
you ever leave off loving me, I shall die."

He never encouraged this kind of talk ;
certainly he had not promised to love
Pauline; he had only offered her friendship
; but, his nature being generous, he
suffered under a consciousness of obligation
when Pauline spoke of her love.

Don't talk about dying," he laughed
as he spoke ; " it is not so very long, my
child, since you began to live."

But he stopped ; he did not see the
tender, half-reproachful look in his wife's
sweet, dark eyes, for the road had suddenly
turned, and the well-known scene was
before him ; on the left was the opening of
the gorge, rent through the tall cliff which

had hitherto bordered that side of the
road, with the swift brook dashing through
it on its way to the river, and on the right,
beyond the stretch of green meadow,
streaked just now with faint purple blossoms,
was the broad and silver Meuse,
backed by its dark hills with their white-stemmed
birch trees ; between the crocus-pied
meadow and the river, was the
cottage.

Edmund's heart throbbed wildly ; he saw
at once that smoke was curling from the
chimney, and a mad hope seized him. He
did not hear Pauline's exclamation of delight
; he pulled up the horse abruptly.

Will you take the reins a moment ?"
he said. " I will be back again directly."

Let us drive to the cottage, and put
up the horse. See, there is a stable
beside it," said Pauline. " It is very
pretty, I will wait while you make a
sketch, dearest."

But Edmund had flung the reins into

her lap, and was already out of sight
round the angle of the cottage. Pauline
was not observant, and, spite of her love,
she was not in sympathy with her husband.
She saw he was in a hurry ;
but she had not even a glimpse of the
violent reaction of feeling that had literally
carried him away from her side. It
was so violent that it checked thought in
him. The wild hope, however, died as he
turned the angle of the cow-stable. In front
of the cottage a sunburnt, pleasant-looking
old man sat shredding a cabbage into a brass
pan, and behind him in the open doorway
a still older woman sat, her legs swathed
in flannel resting on a broken chair.

The man smiled and nodded at Monsieur
Depuis, and then went on with his
work. Edmund realised that the cottage
was let to strangers, and he felt stupefied
with the shock. Ah ! why had he not
come before ? Why had he waited and
been so supine ? Well, he would act now.

Good day, Monsieur," he came close
up to the old man. " Have you been living
here long ?"

Ah ! Monsieur," he said, or rather
mumbled, for he had few teeth, " we are
living here, and we are not living here.
Monsieur le Cure has said that some day
the cottage will be wanted again, and that
therefore it must not be left empty, and
the cottage of Rose had a hole in the roof,
and said Monsieur le Cure, ' Well, then,
Mathieu and Eugenie can go to Mademoiselle
Jeanne's cottage, and Rose can
take care of their house till her own shall
be mended.' "

All this was poured out volubly, but so
indistinctly that Edmund only heard fragments
of its information.

Who do you say will want the cottage ?"
he said impatiently.

The old man looked keenly at him.

Ah, you are a stranger then," he said ;
"and yet at first I thought you were a

friend of Mademoiselle Jeanne." Then his
smile faded and he looked perplexed.
Do you come from far off, Monsieur
? " he said. " You know perhaps a
photographer named Monsieur Antoine
Yidonze ?"

Edmund had been struck by the change
in the old man's face and manner, and his
recollection had come back. It was much
better that these people should think him a
stranger, and that he should not question
them respecting Jeanne. There was no
saying how much they might know, and he
did not wish that Pauline should learn
the story of Jeanne Lahaye. He was sure
that so far his wife had no suspicion that
the girl he had loved was connected with
the cottage beside the river.

Is Monsieur Hallez at home, do you
know ?" he said.

Yes, Monsieur, at this time of day he
is always at the presbytery. Does Monsieur
then know Monsieur le Cure ?"

He got up as he spoke. Edmund had
evidently risen in his esteem. Then he
turned round to his old wife, who had
been blinking her small watery eyes in a
vain attempt to see the stranger's face.

Do you hear, Eugenie," he said ; " this
gentleman has come to see Monsieur le
Cure."

The old woman gave a feeble cough.

Then he should go to the presbytery ;
this is not his way there."

Edmund heard, and a flush rose up in
his cheeks ; but just then Pauline came
round the corner of the stable, leading the
horse; she left it and ran to him.

So you are here. I began to think
you were lost, and I came to see. Oh,
Edmund, how pretty it is ! do come and
fasten up the horse. I want to go down
to the river."

For the time he had forgotten her existence,
and now he stared at her, uncertain
what to do.

When he left Rimayy he had had no definite
purpose. Now he felt that no power
would induce him to give up seeing Monsieur
Hallez ; but Pauline must not go
with him.

I am going a little farther," he said ;
I shall not be long away. This goodman
will give you a chair if you are
tired.' ,

He hurried away from her to the horse,
and brought him round to the front of the
house.

You will see him if he stands here,"
he said. " I will give him a feed, and he
will stay quiet till I come back."

Let him loose, Monsieur," said the old
woman. "The stable is empty, for the
goats are away till evening ; but it is
clean, and your beast will be cool in there,
and free of the flies which are teazing:
him."

He bustled forward and opened one of
the tall green doors. Edmund's heart

ached sorely ; it seemed as if next
moment Jeanne might come out with
her arm round Merette. He would not
look into the dark, cool place, but he
busied himself in helping to unfasten the
buckles and straps, which the old man
seemed to understand much better than he
did.

Pauline clapped her hands as the horse
went into the stable.

Now I am free ! " she said. " You will
let me go with you, Edmund ? "

"It is too far for you; I shall go so
much faster alone. Stay here like a good
girl."

He waved his hand and was gone.
Pauline looked after him ; then she began
to cry, and walked away to the riverside,
so as to hide her tears from the old
woman.

11 Mathieu ! Mathieu ! "  the crippled
woman could not see from her seat within
the doorway that her husband was busy

shutting the stable-door  " Mathieu !" she
cried, and she struck her stick against
the wall.

Mathieu heard the unusual sounds.

"Yes  yes, Eugenie; I am coming, I
am coming. What ails you then, my
friend, ,, he cried, in an anxious voice.
But when he came in sight of her,
Eugenie was just as he had left her,
except that her mouth was screwed up and
her neck was craned forward in eager expectation
of his coming.

"Mathieu," she said, in a whisper, "is
the young lady there out of hearing ?"

Pauline had strayed along beside the
river, and was now standing where she
could see her.

Yes  yes ; even you, with your sharp
ears, could not hear so far off as the river,
my friend ; but what have you to say ? "

That I think you must be getting
deaf," said Eugenie.

Mathieu laughed blithely. " Well, I am

vol. n. Q

old," he said; " so you must not wonder,
my friend."

It is not that," she frowned ; " but I
knew by his voice that Monsieur was the
friend of Mam'zelle Jeanne, who used to
row down here from Bimay; and yet did
you not notice that he never said a word to
show he had been here before?" she laughed,
at Mathieu's look of alarm. " Well, can
you not see why ? that little lady yonder is
his wife or his sweetheart ; he will not
talk to her about Mam'zelle Jeanne."
The crippled woman chuckled and
leaned back still more in her wooden
chair.

Mathieu ' stood looking at her, one
hand planted on his hip, and his head
a little on one side, like an inquisitive
sparrow.

How clever you are !" he said. " Holy
Virgin ! what things come into her head as
she sits there doing nothing ! I will go
and ask the young lady if she is his wife,

and I will ask her if her husband used to
live at Rimayy."

Stay," Eugenie called out so shrilly
that the sound reached Pauline. But her
voice sank when her husband stood still
again.

Say as little as you can to her," she
said ; " remember Monsieur le Cure said
you were not to speak to anyone of
Mam'zelle Jeanne. If it is as I think, this
young lady can be no friend of hers."

o 2

CHAPTER XVII.

AT THE Presbytery.

fTIHE boy Felix did not find life nearly so
-*- much to his taste as it had been in
the days when he herded Merette and swept
out her stable, and carried water and did
errands for Jeanne Lahaye. If he had
only had Father Hallez to deal with there
is no knowing the extent to which he might
not have imposed on the worthy priest's
forbearance and credulity. Monsieur Hallez
thought Jeanne almost faultless, and therefore
a simple village lad trained by her
from early childhood might be supposed to
be quite innocent and trustworthy; but
Leonine, his housekeeper, had, so Felix

averred, eyes in the back of her head, and
she soon found out that Jeanne's protege
was a lying, idle little scapegrace, and that
his smiling, simple face was a deceit, and
could be put on at the shortest notice.

Still, even when the good Cure's eyes
had been opened sorely against his will, he
would not discharge Felix. "There is
always hope of amendment' he said,
benevolently, " and the child is young."

At which Leontine went away shrugging
her shoulders, and grumbling that if
the child had any spirit he would run away.

So he would, for the housekeeper did
not spare him; and he much wished to
leave the presbytery, but the remembrance
of the photographer's promise was very
dear to his heart, and if he left the Cure's
service he had no means of getting information
about Mam'zelle Jeanne. Hitherto,
though he had listened at the door whenever
Leontine went into her master's
study, he had never heard Jeanne's

name mentioned ; and more than once he
had been caught listening and soundly
cuffed by the indignant housekeeper.
This morning he had been found out
stealing apricots just beside the study
window ; and Father Hallez, while he
dug up hi potatoes and examined into
the condition of his gourds in his 
garden, had been reading
Felix a more severe lecture than usual,
for, good and excellent as the priest
was, he had a weakness  his apricots
were the coveted luxury of the whole year.
He loved their beauty almost as much
as he enjoyed their flavour, and to sit
in his rustic arbour, covered with yellow
bean vines, and watch the golden fruit
mellowing in the sunshine to a ruddy ripeness,
was a pleasure he would not easily
have lost.

It is a theft, Felix," he said ; " six
large apricots are property ; and it is ungrateful,
for I meant one of them for

you; henceforth I mast not let you
work near the tree if it exposes you to
temptation."

Felix hated life that morning, and he
felt exquisite satisfaction when the fork
with which the Cure was digging stuck in
the middle of a very fine potatoes and broke
it in two.

His ears were quicker than his master's,
and he heard the sound of footsteps
crunching on the loose, slaty path in front
of the house.

There is a visitor, Monsieur," he said,
shall I go and see who it is ?"

Whilst Felix went towards the house, the
Cure stuck the fork into the ground and
paused to wipe his forehead and let down
the skirts of his soutane, which he had
tucked up while digging.

The front door was closed, for Leon-tine
had gone to see a sick neighbour.
Felix opened it, and he gasped when he
saw who the visitor was. He had often

wondered whether Monsieur Depuis had
taken Jeanne away. He had been quite
sharp enough to see that Edmund was
the favoured rival of Monsieur Yidonze ;
and here was the chance he had so long
waited for.

Ah, good day, Monsieur' he said.
Edmund stared ; the boy had grown, and
he did not at once recognise him.

Good day, Felix," he said ; but he did
not smile. Bitter memories were crushing
all hope out of his life.

Monsieur," Felix began, and then he
stood open-mouthed. He wanted to say
where is Mademoiselle Jeanne, but the
Monsieur Depuis before him, sad and
stern-looking, was no longer the laughing
Monsieur Edmund who had pulled his hair
and pinched his ear, and who had so
often flung him a coin for helping to unfasten
the boat.

Felix had deteriorated since Jeanne
went away, bat he loved her in his own

fashion ; he wanted to get news, so that
he could sell it to Vidonze, but he wanted
also to know what had become of his
kind young mistress ; he did not know
how to begin. He heard Monsieur Hallez
coming in at the back door, aud at the
same moment he was pushed aside,
and there was Leontine who had come
home and was curtseying to Monsieur
Depuis.

It was exasperating ; she had come back
on purpose to balk him. Felix drew back,
vowing to himself that he would be
revenged on the housekeeper.

Monsieur le Cure came forward smiling ;
he held out both hands to Edmund. The
young man's handsome face made him
forget for the moment the wonder he had
felt at his long silence, for he heard little
news in his quiet village, and he did not
know that Edmund was married.

Can I speak to you in your study,
Monsieur ?" Edmund spoke hurriedly, and

went in without waiting for the priest's
invitation to enter.

By all means  you are welcome, my
son," and he led the way to the little whitewashed
room, which only contained, byway
of furniture, some chairs, two tables,
a crucifix, and some scantily-filled bookshelves
; an arched recess in one corner
was fitted with shelves, and on these were
bunches of herbs spread out to dry, some
poppy heads, a pair of small metal scales,
and various simple indications that Monsieur
le Cure tried to cure the bodies as
well as the souls of his flock.

Edmund did not even look round him ;
he waited impatiently till the door was
shut ; but he remained standing, although
the Cure courteously drew forward his own
black-leather chair, and asked him to rest.

No, thank you," he said, " I have only
a few minutes. Monsieur, you guess what
I want to ask you, what I ought to have
asked you long ago. Where is Jeanne

Lahaye ? what has become of her ?"

Monsieur Hallez set his spectacles
straight, and looked searchingly Edmund.
He could not understand the sorrow and
the anxiety in the young man's agitated
face. Although he had not sought Jeanne
still the Cure' fancied he might have had a
clue to her proceedings ; it would only
have been natural if Jeanne had given him
this.

You do not know then where she is ?
I thought perhaps Jeanne had written  "

Edmund broke in passionately.

When Jeanne last wrote to me it was
to tell me she could not be my wife. Since
then I only know that Madame Delimoy is
dead  and that Jeanne is free to marry."

You had better sit down." Monsieur
Hallez spoke coldly ; he felt some contempt
for his visitor. He did not understand
this urgency after such a long forgetfulness.
" That is an old story," he said as
Edmund seated himself, and he took a

wooden chair opposite his visitor, "Madame
Delimoy died before Easter. Did you write
to Jeanne when you heard of her death ?"

No," Edmund looked with some surprise
at the priest, " I could not write
then  but tell me, Monsieur, where she
is?"

When Monsieur Hallez disapproved he
did not always rebuke, he had a way of
pushing his upper lip with the lower one
till it nearly touched his long, pointed nose,
the only feature in his face at variance
with the meekness of the rest. His lips
were very much out of shape as Edmund
spoke. Monsieur Hallez was puzzled ; he
had promised Jeanne that if Edmund made
inquiry for her he would tell the story of
her flight, and yet he hesitated. Could
this man be worthy of Jeanne when he had
waited so long to claim her ?

"When did you hearts Madame Delimoy's
death ?" he said, gravely.

Not long ago  at least not till long

after it had happened. I wished to come
to you then, but I could not."

"You could have written," said the
priest.

Again Edmund felt bewildered as much
by the Cure's manner as by his words. It
had seemed to him that if Madame Boulotte
knew of his marriage all Rimayy knew it.
He knew nothing of Yidonze's quarrel with
the Cure.

Yes, I could have written ; but, Monsieur,
you will tell me where Jeanne went
when she left the cottage. Sometimes I
think she may have written to tell me,
and that the letter never reached me."

The Cure" nodded.

It is true she may have written ;" then,
touched by the bitter sorrow he saw in
Edmund's eyes, he said kindly, " she
wished you to know what had happened
to her." The words struck into edmund's
heart; he grew pale while he
listened breathlessly. " Yes, she said

to me, ' if Edmund Depuis asks you about
my going away, you can tell him ; but no
one else may know.' Well, my son, a lady
and gentleman from the Ardennes, wealthy
people who have a Chateau there, took
Jeanne away when her grandmother died,
and she has been with them ever since."

She is happy then," he said, in a
choked sad voice.

Monsieur Hallez was shocked. He had
expected rapture at his tidings of Jeanne,
eager haste to seek her, and instead
Edmund looked utterly miserable, far more
wretched than he had looked at the beginning
of the interview. But the Cure's
mind being full of Jeanne and of her
happiness, he was too little in sympathy
with Edmund to guess at the true
reason for all this.

Jeanne Lahaye, Monsieur," he spoke
in a severe tone, " has never sought to
please herself in this life. She tried to do
God's will, and to live for Him in others.

She is doubtless contented with her kind
friends."

M Where is their chateau ?" the young
man said, abruptly. " Is it far from here ?"

Monsieur Hallez softened. After all the
young man's sorrow might be for having
wasted so many months instead of at once
seeking Jeanne ; after all too she had refused
him, he had forgotten that. He
answered more kindly.

The Chateau is at a place called
Remouchamps, a village not very far from
Spa, though it is a long way from here ;
but if you are in a hurry to see Jeanne 
for I suppose," the priest smiled benevolently,
and rubbed his hands together, "you
are jealous lest she should seek other
protection  you must be impatient to see
her "

Stop 1" Edmund spoke so vehemently
that the priest was startled, " what do you
mean ?  you know that I am married?"

The Cure's hands fell apart ; his arms

dropped beside him, and he stood looking
at his visitor with a scared, vacant face.

There was a pause. Then the priest
crossed himself. " Holy Virgin !" he said
reverently, " have pity on them both."

The dead silence was broken by a slight
noise at the key-hole of the door. Monsieur
Hallez opened it quickly, and he saw
Felix shuffling along the passage as if
trying not to be heard.

Go to your digging, child' he said,
severely. " You have no business here."

Then he came back to Edmund who
stood as if he were waiting for his doom
to be spoken by the mild-eyed, black-robed,
slow moving priest.

Monsieur," he said, " you have puzzled
me all through our interview ; but I fail
to understand how you dare as a married
man to come here and question me about
Mademoiselle Lahaye."

Do you think I have ceased to love
her then ?" Edmund said hoarsely. " Monsieur,

it is useless ; I know all you would
say. I have fought against this love, God
knows it. I told myself I had conquered
it  and to-day the very sight of the
cottage she lived in, of you, of all that reminds
me of her, tells me that life is not
worth having without her."

The Cure did not believe in vehement
feeling; he thought that usually it had
little root. He waited a little after this
outburst, then he put his hand gently on
Edmund's shoulder.

My son, you are agitated and overwrought.
If you have been able to forget
for so many months, and to-day are only
stirred by the sight of familiar associations,
you will be able to forget again. I think you
are a God-fearing man, Edmund Depuis,
or I should take a different tone with you.
When you are calmer, you will see that
it is to your wife that you owe love and
constancy, not to Jeanne Lahaye : henceforth
she must be blotted from your life."

VOL. II. R

You will at least tell me if she is welland
likely to stay with the friends she has
chosen."

Monsieur Hallez hesitated. He had not
heard from Jeanne since her arrival at Spa
where Monsieur Eugene had gone to drink
the waters. It seemed useless to tell edmund
where she now was, and also of her
changed position, for it seemed to the good
old man that Jeanne had lost very much
in losing the guardianship of Mademoiselle
de Matagne. The sooner she and Edmund
forgot one another's existence the better
for both of them.

She is well and safe; and now let us
talk about you." Edmund frowned with
an impatient gesture. " My friend," the
Cure went on, " it is deadly sin in you
to cherish love towards another woman.
I have no reason to suppose that Jeanne
still loves you ; but if I had, it would be
my duty to warn her against a feeling which
is now sinful."

Edmund groaned.

"How unreasonable you are  " he said,
angrily; "and how ignorant of love 
you talk just as if it were a weed, to
be pulled up and thrown aside at will."

"If you wish to throw it aside, and
strive to do so, God will help you," said the
Cure. " You know how to seek help ; if
you go on in your present state, you are a
lost soul. Where is your wife ?"

I left her beside the river at the  the
cottage." Edmund looked confused.

How could you venture near the cottage
while your head was full of these sinful
fancies ?" said Monsieur Hallez sadly.
Is your wife a good woman ? "

"Good! she is excellent; she is pious
and virtuous ; and she loves me. Ah, Monsieur
! I know what you are going to say,
and I tell you again that you do not know
what the power of love is. I married
without it, I have tried my best to be a
good husband ; but I cannot feign love

B 2

when I do not feel it  or rather when I
feel it too strongly," he turned away.

The priest shook his head. " I can
only pray for you; argument is useless.
You ought not to have married, Monsieur
Depuis."

You are right," groaned Edmund. He
knew in his heart that the Cure would
have found some excuse for him if he had
known all ; but he could not betray poor
little trusting Pauline. " You must think
very meanly of me, Monsieur," he said ;
but remember this, I tried hard to win
Jeanne, and she would not listen ; she
would not even answer my letter. But I
have never left off loving her, Monsieur 
I cannot. Even if she marries some one
else, I shall always love Jeanne Lahaye.
Good day. You look shocked ; I am sorry,
but I must be true. You will never seeme
again."

He went out hastily, and, finding the
front door open, took his way up the loose

slaty path into the road that connected the
presbytery with the village. He had never
gone this way with Jeanne, for he had
seen Monsieur Hallez beside the river,
near the landing-place, and yet every tree
and bush, and every projecting crag that
bordered the narrow road, spoke to him
of his beloved, and told him that she might
have been his if he had had but courage
and patience*

Presently he heard some one behind
him running fast, and then a shout. He
stopped and looked back. The boy Felix
was running at full speed, his face scarlet
and mouth wide open ; so that when he
reached Monsieur Depuis he could only
gasp and look up in his face like an
alarmed frog.

Edmund thought he brought a message
from the Cure.

"What is it?" he said. " Can you not
speak ? Does Monsieur le Cure want
me?"

Felix had been puzzled how to begin ;
he caught eagerly at this suggestion.

He wants to know, Sir," he gasped,
if Monsieur Vidonze is at Eimay ? "

Monsieur Yidonze ! " A dim horrible
fear came to Edmund. Could it be possible
that the Cure would lend his support to
Vidonze's love.

No," he said, angrily ; " I do not know
where he is."

Felix was baffled, but he would not give
up. " Then Monsieur does not think he is
coming to Bimay soon."

Only that morning Madame Boulotte had
said she was expecting her brother.

Yes, he is coming;" and then Edmund
turned abruptly and went on towards the
little village.

Felix stood looking after him; he grinned
and nodded his tangled head. " It is all
right," he said ; " I will say over the name
every day, and then I cannot forget 
Bemouohamps  and I will ask Mother

Leontine if she would like me to take
some eggs to Rimayy to sell for her in a
few days. You are a clever child, Felix ;
and you will win your big piece of
rnoney."

V

CHAPTER XVIII.

SNUBBED.

A NTOINE VIDONZE was of a sociable
-*- disposition, and liked to find himself
with friends, and yet he seldom went
to Rimayy.

He said that his sister always rubbed
him the wrong way ; and, truly although
Madame Boulotte had both tact and sympathy
in the general affairs of life,
her very affection  or that which she
considered her affection  for her brother
led her to a perpetually correcting state of
mind towards him. She meant to do him
good, yet her efforts rarely succeeded ;
she recognised his cleverness, but she

feared the world would spoil him ; so
that, when he left her, her brother thought
that the world was far more pleasant
society than his sister was.

Madame Boulotte was always delightful
to her friends; she did not feel herself
called upon to improve them ; but directly
Antoine appeared, it seemed to her that her
duty was to lecture this red-bearded sinner
on every point on which his and her opinions
differed. She would not see that it was
impossible they should see things in the
same light, and from the same point of
view. With her friends she argued to herself
it was different ; they had had different
parentage, different training; but blood
relations ought to be more to one another
than to anyone else in the world, and it
was a sort of household treason that a
younger brother should not defer to the
opinion of his elder sister.

She had been thinking much of Antoine
this morning ; of late she had been more

satisfied with him, indeed she felt proud
of him ; and when Monsieur Baconfoy
came in from his walk, she was drawn to
take him into her confidence.

My brother is a very rising man," she
said, " and I have always loved him dearly
far better than I ever loved poor Boulotte."
Baconfoy heard a little sigh after
the words, and at this he had to repress
a smile. He knew from Yidonze that the
widow's husband had been forty years
older than herself, and that there had not
been a grain of love in the marriage.
Yes," she went on, " Antoine is ungrateful
; he never comes to see me, or to
consult me, now that he no longer needs
my help."

Baconfoy looked at her with all the
sympathy his dark eyes could express;
they became full of softness as they rested
on her face. " He is ungrateful, but
after all it is perhaps a matter of rejoicing,
Madame; one has usually enough

to do in settling one's own matters. For
ray own part, I hate being consulted. "

At least, he might pay me the compliment
of asking my advice." She tossed
her head and pouted. She wanted agreement,
not contradiction.

But Baconfoy was not inclined to spoil
her ; moreover he disliked Antoine Yidonze
and his loud-voiced assumption, and he
wished to keep him and his sister apart.

I did not know you cared for compliments,
Madame; I thought you were so
very real," he said, and he sank back in his
chair, with an amused smile, that still
more irritated Madame Boulotte.

I like proper deference," she said. " I
think, Monsieur, I have heard you say that
Edmund Depuis always consulted you, and
he was only your cousin."

Mafoi ! Madame; he had no one else
to consult, I was the poor fellow's guardian ;
the only parent he ever knew. But people
never take advice, Madame, even when they

ask for it. Now I come to reflect,"  he
brought down his massive hand heavily
on the widow's round table,  "Edmund did
not consult me much ; he managed both his
love affairs himself; unless, indeed, he
consulted you, Madame, about this Mademoiselle
Lahaye." He looked keenly at
her.

The widow's clear, colourless face grew
rosy in a moment, and her eyes sparkled.
Baconfoy thought she looked very handsome;
he softly rubbed his large hands,
but when she spoke her angry tone jarred
him.

You have too much imagination, Monsieur
; for the future you must not talk so
much about romance in women. You and
my brother have between you created the
idea of Monsieur Depuis' attachment to
little Jeanne. Bah  Bah ! Monsieur," she
went on, impatiently, as he tried to interrupt,
" is it likely that if there had been
anything in it he would have chosen to

take his wife to the cottage where Jeanne
used to live this morning. Mon Dieu !
how absurd !" She shrugged her shoulders;
then, feeling that she had spoken hastily,
she clasped her plump, white hands together,
and looked with dignified calmness
at her visitor. " You must pardon
me, Monsieur," she said ; " but I do not
think, when a man is married, that it is
well to remember he ever admired anyone
but his wife. All men, you know,
even the best, are weak and foolish about
women."

She rose, bowed ceremoniously, and
left the room. It was very hard to be
reminded that, at the time when she
imagined Edmund most devoted to her, he
had been carrying on a love-affair with
a chit like Jeanne, who had not even a
very pretty face, and no figure to speak of.
She did not expect Pauline and her husband
home for another hour, and although she
had longed for this visit from Monsieur

Baconfoy, she could not sit and quarrel
with him, and she was too angry just now
to do anything else. He looked so lordly,
and provoking, sitting there in the big
easy-chair -lecturing her, too ! She would
write to Antoine. She had meant to send
a message, but there was no knowing how
her message might be delivered ; this provoking,
big man might turn it into ridicule.
Antoine had not even written to
her to tell her of his venture at Dinant.
It was only from Pauline Depuis that she
had learned that Mademoiselle Herkenne
was installed in a new photograph shop
there. It never occurred to this anxious
sister that, as she always blamed and
quarrelled with his ideas, and expected him
to adopt her own, Antoine did not find his
visits to Rimayy as pleasant as she did.

It is so ungrateful, when I love him
so much. If I find fault, it is all for his
own good," she said, tearfully. Although
she held herself to be so infallible in the

matter of judgment Monsieur Baconfoy's
words Lad made some impression ; she
did not however consider that they had
influenced her. She sat down and wrote
Antoine a very affectionate letter of invitation,
without adding to it a word of reproach,
or even of advice. In a postcript
she added, " Monsieur and Madame Du-puis
are here. He has taken her to see
Madame Delimoy's cottage this morning.
I hear you have photographed it."

Meanwhile Baconfoy lay back in his
chair, and enjoyed a hearty laugh.

She is delightful," he said, " and she
looks her best when she is a little pugnacious.
No wonder she thinks she knows
better than that red-headed, bragging fool ;
of course she does, only it is not well that
she should know it ; and a woman is not
sure of anything till some man endorses
her opinion."

He lay back in, for him, a new train of
thought. Certainly he had never met with

a woman like this before. It would be very
pleasant to have such a charming companion
always beside him. He gave a hearty
laugh at the notion of being fretted by her
little pettish ways ; and then a side thought,
springing as such thoughts do from no
traceable source, came suddenly into full
light, and made him sit upright to consider
it.

Man Dieu" he said, " that would never
do; and I suppose, with an unreasoning
creature like a woman, you can never feel
secure. It is one thing that she should
consider herself able to advise that fellow
Yidonze, who is so eaten up with self-importance
that he does not know how to
respect his fellows ; but it would never do
for her to advise me."

He got up, straightened himself, and
drew his massive black eyebrows together;
but next moment he laughed again.

No, no," he said, " that would be too
absurd; it would never do for Jules

Baconfoy, the chosen representative of the
town of Namur on all public occasions  I
may say the private counsellor of half the
town  to be set at nought and advised by
a woman. Jules, my friend, keep your
eyes open ; you were napping just now."

Madame Boulotte had ended her letter,
and had addressed it with a good many
flourishes about the A and V, when she
heard carriage-wheels stop before the door ;
she went down to receive her guests, but
Monsieur Baconfoy was before her, and
was lifting Pauline down from the high
carriage, in shape something like an old-fashioned
gig.

He was laughing, but the other two
were quiet. There was no expression of
enjoyment from Pauline ; it even seemed
to Madame Boulotte as she kissed the
young wife that her eyes were red with
crying. Edmund's back was towards her ;
he appeared wholly occupied with the
horse.

VOL. II. s

You are home sooner than I expected,"
said Madame Boulotte.

Yes; I shall drive round to the stables,"
Edmund said, and he went.

1 shall go and lie down," said Pauline;
I am tired," and she hurried past her
hostess to the staircase.

The two who were left standing in the
doorway looked at one another. Baconfoy
whistled in his quiet teasing fashion,
thereby showing his want of sympathy
with the nature of his companion. If
he had waited till she manifested the result
of her impressions, then most likely she
would have agreed with anything he said ;
but already to-day he had openly doubted
her wisdom; and now that he, a man
who had kept aloof from women all his
life, should pretend to judge a delicate
matter like this in a woman's presence,
was too presumptuous, she thought.

She turned back to go to her sitting-room
without taking any notice of Baconfoy's

whistle. He followed her, serenely unconscious
that he had offended.

Oar turtle-doves have quarrelled," he
said. " Is it not so, Madame ?"

Really, Monsieur, I do not pretend to
judge." She smiled and raised her eyebrows
; then, mindful of wrinkles across
her forehead, she looked at him coldly out
of her bright blue eyes. " They are tired,
and they want something to eat."

Baconfoy looked foolish. He thought
Madame Boulotte must surely see that
Pauline looked sad, and had been crying,
and that Edmund seemed as savage as a
bear. He did not, however, contradict her.

Here is Monsieur Depuis." Madame
Boulotte said. " I am sure you must be
very hungry," she added, in her sweetest
voice.

Edmund stared at her as if he did not
understand her, and then she saw his
stern, sad face.

I, Madame  no, I am not hungry."

s 2

A misgiving that Monsieur Baconfoy had
been right, and that she had given him
just cause for triumph shot across her,
but this feeling was momentary. Withall
her petulance she was not shallow, and
Edmund's eyes stirred her strangely. She
could not tell what it was, but suddenly,
in this bright, careless young man, she
became aware of something terrible ; it
was as if in the midst of a gay flower-garden
she had come to the mouth of one
of the oubliettes to be seen in the castles on
the Meuse. All at once she grew grave ;
she and Monsieur Baconfoy had suddenly
changed parts in the little drama.

"Well, Edmund," he said, " tell us
about your drive; was Madame satisfied ?"

"Yes," said Edmund, dully, "I think
she was ; but I think thesis tired ; she has a
head-ache. Madame," he went on quickly,
be seemed in a hurry to get out what he
had to say, " you kindly asked us to stay
a few days with you, but I dare not give

the time. I must go back to my picture.
Pauline can stay here ; she will enjoy
being with you, and the rest and change
will do her good."

Just then Baconfoy looked hard at his
hostess, and her eyes fell in some confusion
; but she smiled at Edmund, and
assured him that she should be delighted
to take charge of his dear little wife.

Thank you," said Edmund ; " you will
tell Pauline I had to hurry away to catch
the train. "

Go by the next," said Baconfoy, " and
I will go with you. Madame has asked
me to stay for dinner."

But Edmund was taking a grateful leave
of his hostess, and giving her the best
of reasons for his hasty departure. He
was really impatient to get away ; he
had already made Pauline cry by telling
her his intention, and he feared a repetition
of tears if he waited to say good-bye.

As soon as he was gone Baconfoy looted
inquiringly at the widow.

Do not tease me, Monsieur," she said,
sadly. " I cannot bear it. You are right
perhaps, but I am as much in the dark
as you are ; in any case there is something
dreadfully wrong with your cousin. "

CHAPTER XIX.

WIFE AND WIDOW.

jl/TADAME BOULOTTE was in a dis

LTJ - lemma, and in spite of her resolute
dependence on her own judgment, she
wished that she could have the benefit of
some advice, even if it were only the advice
of Monsieur Baconfoy. But after he had
joked with Pauline till she began at last to
smile, and he had promised to write aud tell
her how Edmund looked next morning, he
also returned to Dinant, and Madame
Boulotte was left alone with her unwilling
guest.

The widow was not specially inquisitive,
but it would have been superhuman reticence

and self-denial, if, when she saw
the sudden blight that had fallen on
gentle, yielding Pauline, she had not tried
to discover its cause. For the girl, who
had been all smiles and sweetness on
her arrival, came down to breakfast depressed
and pale, with swollen eyes, and
said she had a head-ache.

Madame Boulotte took no notice, but
went about her household affairs as usual,
giving even more than ordinary time to
them ; experience had taught her that
nothing so inclines an over-charged heart to
confidence as being left to brood on its
troubles alone.

When the mid-day meal was over it was
still too hot to go out into the street, and
Madame Boulotte led the way back into
her sitting-room, and sat down to
embroider.

Pauline went to the window, and stood
there looking out for several minutes, then
she glanced at herself in the looking-glass,

but turned away with a weary sigh,
and sank on the little sofa.

Does your head ache still, my dear p"
the widow asked, tenderly.

The tone made Pauline's heart swell.

I don't know yes." She was afraid
to say much, she knew that a sob was in
her throat ready to burst forth, and her
eyes smarted w T with the tears that came
rushing to them.

Madame Boulotte waited a minute, and
then looked round. The girl had clasped
her hands over her eyes, and she saw that
she was crying.

11 Poor little thing !" Madame Boulotte
rose and arranged some cushions under
Pauline's drooping head, and gently kissed
her forehead.

My poor child," she said, " it is sad to
come into the country only to get a headache."


Pauline did not answer. She was rather
afraid of Madame Boulotte ; it seemed to

her that this bright, cheerful woman would
not be a safe confidant, not half so safe
as quiet Elise, who had secrets of her own
to keep. Madame Boulotte, so Pauline
thought, might even report her trouble to
Monsieur Baconfoy, or to her brother
Antoine.

Oh no ! she could not tell her
grief to her, and with a sob she shrank
away from the tenderness which touched
her aching heart. But she felt sorely in
need of a confidant and guide. She had
been telling herself all through the long,
wide-awake night that she should have
been wiser and happier if she had sought
advice on this one point on which Edmund
could not help her  her own conduct
towards him. something she had said
or done was wrong  she was sure of it ;
it was perhaps only some little trifle
easily altered, and then she should never
again suffer from the cold looks and the
changed manner which had so alarmed and

grieved her ; and this hope had actually so
comforted the poor child that she had gone
off to sleep, and dreamed that Edmund
was beseeching her to be his wife, with
love in his eyes that she had never seen
there.

Now in broad daylight hope was
timid, and as she lay back on the pillows
of the sofa she recalled her husband's
flushed face when he returned to the
cottage, and his cold indifference to all she
had to say ; then his anger when she asked
if he was vexed, and then his sudden proposal
to leave her at Rimayy ; despair took
hold of her, and she burst into sudden
passionate tears.

Madame Boulotte had expected this ; but
she did not go to the sofa. Unless Pauline
wished to give her confidence, she would
not force it from her. Still, when this
bitter weeping had lasted a few minutes,
her tenderness of heart conquered her
resolve. She took a bottle of Eau de

Cologne from the mantel-shelf and went
with it to the sobbing girl.

Pauline sat up and wiped her eyes, the
Eau de Cologne checked her sobs, and she
made a strong effort to be calm.

11 I do not know what you can think of
me, Madame ; it is so bad a return for all
your kindness, to cry like a baby."

She made so pitiful an attempt to smile
that sudden tears filled the kind widow's
eyes.

Poor dear child I" she kissed Pauline ;
but indeed I do not mind your tears. I
am only sorry that such a bright young
creature should have any cause for crying.
Come tell me, is it only a head-ache,
Pauline?"

Pauline darted a quick look at her. No,
she could not tell Madame Boulotte. She
could not let her know that Edmund was
not a devoted husband.

1 am ashamed to tell you how great a
baby I am," she said; "but this is our

first separation, and it makes me miserable."
She looked hard at Madame Boulotte, and
she saw that she was not half satisfied with
this reason.

ic Is that all ?" The widow spoke in a
crisp, hard way that made the poor little
wife wince. " Do you know you both
looked so glum when you came back yesterday,
that I thought you had had your
first quarrel."

Pauline pouted ; it seemed to her that
her hostess was inquisitive.

We had had a little dispute," she
said ; " not a quarrel. I could never
quarrel with Edmund. 1 wanted him to
stay here with me, and he said that he
could not." She did not add that he had
insisted on leaving her behind.

I seem to have heard so little about
your drive," said Madame Boulotte. " I
thought Monsieur Edmund would have
sketched the cottage beside the river." As
she spoke the strange expression she had

seen in Edrnond's eyes, came back to her
memory. Yes, she was sure something
serious must have happened between these
two.

He had not time ; he took a walk ; "
and then Pauline flushed. She felt that
she had partly betrayed herself.

And you went with him. Where did
you go ? and where did you leave the
horse ? "

Pauline felt sullen at this questioning.

I did not go," she said, coldly. " I
stayed near the cottage, and so did the
horse."

She was angry with Madame Boulotte,
and she did not look at her. If she had,
she would have seen a bright flash of intelligence
in the widow's eyes ; and if she
had not been absorbed by her own sorrow
she would have seen that, though Madame
Boulotte went back to her embroidery,
she sat with it in her hands, thinking.

A keen observer would have noted that

the widow's head was bent, and that she
looked altogether dejected and humbled.
An overwhelming conviction had come to
her, the conviction that she had been
wilfully blind to that which others had
seen clearly. Antoine had been right;
and she, who considered herself so clever
and far-sighted, had lived on, so near to
the love-story that had been carried on at
the cottage beside the river, and yet utterly
ignorant of what had happened there.

Was it possible, she thought, that
Antoine had also been right when he
said that he was sure Jeanne Lahaye was
not far off, if he could only find her ?
Was she indeed still near the cottage,
and had Esmond seen her? This was
indeed a terrible secret; and how much
did this poor Pauline know of it ?

But surely Edmund had not thought
yesterday of meeting Jeanne Lahaye. He
could not have started for the cottage with
so bright and cloudless a face, if he had

been going knowingly in search of Jeanne.
No  if he had seen her  and Madame
Boulotte feared that he had  he had met
her by chance ; and then he had determined
that it was best to separate for the
present from his wife.

For the present  and what was to come
after? Madame Boulotte was not romantic;
but Edmund's eyes haunted her
with a dread of coming evil. Only for
this, she would have shrugged her shoulders
at poor little Pauline's disappointment.
After all, she was not sure whether she deserved
so much pity. If this love story were
a fact, then Edmund could not have been
heart-free when he married, and perhaps
Pauline had been the wooer. It was
curious to see how much Madame Boulotte
resented the girl's want of confidence.
She was quickly growing alienated
from her. However, she would give her a
little useful advice.

You must not fret, my dear, I



dare say you do feel this first separation
from your husband," she said; " but,
my dear Pauline, do you know that your
Edmund has spoiled you ? he has been
too much at home. You have been
living in a Fool's Paradise; if you never
cry for anything worse than this going
away of his, you will be a lucky woman.
And. remember this, my dear, a man's
love is not like a woman's ; it soon alters.
Bless me, if I were you, I should be
glad of a little separation  the meeting
again will be sweet  you have a pleasure
to look forward to."

Pauline noticed the widow's changed
manner.

You think: me silly," she pouted  " I
cannot help it, I know I am silly ; but
Edmund told me once he was very glad
that I was not a clever woman."

With all her meekness, she was not in a
mood to be lectured, and she went away

VOL. II. T

to her room, determined that she would go
back next day to Dinant.

Little simpleton ! she will not make
friends ;" and then Madame Boulotte
sighed. She did not believe much in
married love ; but it was plain in this case
there was love on one side. " Poor edmund
! I am sorry for him ; that unhappy
little creature will worry his life out, with
her fondness. "

And as she thought of Edmund, of his
frank, generous nature, and of all his bright,
winning qualities, it seemed to her terrible
that he should have made such a mistake
as to marry one woman while he loved
another. It was impossible that he and
Jeanne would continue to see one another,
they were both too good for that, but
she could not quite get rid of the idea
that they had met ; it clung to her tenaciously.
While she sat absorbed by these
gloomy thoughts, her maid came into the
room.

A little boy wants to see Madame,"
she said, doubtfully ; " but he will not tell
his business to me."

"I will go and speak to him," said
Madame Boulotte, and she rose and went
to the street door.

Felix was standing on the steps; but
he stared at her, uncertain what to say.
Madame Boulotte was sharper-sighted
than her maid, and though he had grown
so tall, she recognised Felix. The sight of
him gave her a shock ; it was a sort of link
in the chain of her ideas.

Good day, Felix," she said. " What
do you want ?"

Felix peered behind her, to make sure no
one else was near.

I want to speak with the brother of
Madame," he said, roughly. " I have
something to tell him."

"Monsieur Vidonze is not here; you
had better tell me."

Felix backed cautiously.

t 2

No, Madame ; I cannot tell anyone
but Monsieur Yidonze. I must see him.
Is he coming soon P"

"Yes, he is coming tomorrow or the
next day ; but you could leave a message.
Do you live near ?"

Felix shook his head mysteriously.

Monsieur Yidonze knows where I live,"
he said; then suddenly he remembered
Leontine's eggs, and he opened the
basket he carried.

I live with Monsieur le Cure, Madame,
and the housekeeper thought you would
like to buy some eggs."

CHAPTER XXI.

VIDONZE ON THE TRACK.

rjlHE inn beside the Ambleve looks much
-*- as it did when Jeanne left Chateau
Montcour. There are not quite so many
visitors now  for the season at Spa is
almost over  but still there are enough to
cause all the inn windows to be open, and
for a pleasant smell of cooking to pervade
the passages ; while the helpers in the yard
are busy with some horses that have just
come in. They have been over-driven, poor
creatures, and a little group has collected
round them. One of the group is Antoine
Yidonze ; and as he has travelled by railway,

and has therefore only driven from
the station at Comblain, a few miles away,
his horse is fresh, and he at once loudly
makes a comparison between his humanity
and that of the French travellers who have
preceded him.

Old Jacques is also looking at the horses,
but he does not talk to his loud-speaking
guest. The old man's quiet gentleness
does not feel attracted by so much self-praise
; he walks away presently, looking
as if he had a bad taste in his
mouth.

Vidonze nods and laughs at the maids as
if he were an old acquaintance, and then
he comes back to the house and meets
Charles Cajot, smiling and rubbing his
hands.

You remember me, my friend," says
Vidonze, with an air. " A party of us
came here in the summer."

Charles has seen a great many visitors
this summer, and he does not at first

altogether recall the photographer. He
smiles, however, and rubbing his hands
with redoubled vigour, says he is enchanted
that Monsieur has paid a second visit to
Eemouchamps.

Vidonze goes on talking on indifferent
subjects till he reaches the front door of
the inn, then he says abruptly :

I have come to see a friend of mine at
the Chateau here; which is the best way to
get at it ?"

He looks at Charles, and sees that he
is not believed. The few friends of
Eugene de Matagne, are well known at
the village inn, and they are of a different
species from this noisy, red-bearded
tourist.

Monsieur has a friend at the Chateau ?"
says Charles, politely.

Yidonze hesitates. The people who
spirited Jeanne away in such a skilful
manner must have been determined to

keep her bidden, and perhaps her real name

is not known.

There is a young lady living there," he

says, " a friend of the people at the

Chateau, she is my friend also."

Charles gives him another inquiring look.
He remembers Barbe's story, and the
change that came over him respecting
Jeanne when he discovered that she was
not really a De Matagne. He knows very
well that his brother Jacques would have
parried this question, and would have
said he had no right to discuss the affairs
of the family with a stranger; but
curiosity is one of Charles Cajot's weak
points.

"You are then a friend of Mademoiselle
Jeanne's ?" he says. " Ah, she is
a fine young lady, and we miss her
greatly.

Is she not still here ? What do you
mean?" His eager tone still more inflames
Charles's curiosity.

"No, Monsieur, no. Since our good
lady died, Monsieur Eugene and the young
lady have gone away."

Gone away together?" Then, as Charles
nods, Yidonze adds quickly. " What is
the age of this Monsieur Eugene ?"

"He is ever so much older than his
brother, Monsieur Raoul. He is perhaps
old enough to be the grandfather of
Mademoiselle Jeanne. He is an invalid,
and he sits at the window and plays music.
Ah, it was pleasant to hear it sometimes,
as the the wind carried it across the
river."

Does the younger brother live here
also ?" Yidonze feels very angry and
uncomfortable. Here is a complication he
did not expect ; Jeanne seems almost
out of his reach among these De
Manages.

"Monsieur Raoul? Man Dieu! Monsieur
Raoul is the great man of the family;
he is a savant, and he lives in Paris. I

should not wonder  " and then he
stops.

He has begun to suspect that Vidonze
feels a personal interest in Jeanne ; but he
is too polite to hazard a direct question.
Vidonze is on the alert, he sees the man's
hesitation, and he guesses there is something
still to be told.

Ah," he says, carelessly, " I guess what
you were going to say. They have gone
to Paris to be with this Monsieur
Raoul. I suppose Mademoiselle will
marry him," and then a sudden fury
rises in his heart at the notion that,
while he has been wasting his life in longing
for Jeanne, this stranger has been
winning her under his own roof.

Charles sees that he looks red and angry,
but he cannot let the matter rest here, his
curiosity is too eager.

If Monsieur were to write to Mam'zelle
Jeanne, perhaps the letter would be sent
on," he says.

Then you think they can tell me at
the Chateau where she is ?"

No, Monsieur," Charles splutters with
eagerness, " no, that they cannot ; they
may know by-and-bye, but I  I was at the
Chateau this morning  I am allowed to buy
fruit while the family is away  and they
do not know where Monsieur Eugene is
now."

Yidonze feels baffled. He has spent
time and money for nothing, business
calls him back to JSTamur; in any case
he prefers not to present himself at the
Chateau, he does not want Jeanne to
learn that he has got a clue to her hiding-place.


"It does not signify," he says; "perhaps,
if the young lady comes back, you
will let me know. I will not leave a message
for her; when I know she is here, I
can write to her. Will you write to this
address ?"

He writes in pencil on a bit of paper,

BESIDE THE RIVER.

A. B. Care of Mademoiselle Herkenne,
Grande Rue Dinant." If this is shown to
Jeanne, he thinks, it will arouse no suspicion.
Charles Cajot looks at the
bit of paper, and promises directly he
hears of Jeanne's return to write to
Ab.

1 want to write a letter now," says
Yidonze ; and he is shown up into the
salon, where Pauline rested.

It is only a letter full of business
directions to Mademoiselle Herkenne, but
at the end is this sentence : " I have got
a clue to the original of the portrait,
the girl I told you about; she was
actually living in the little village we
went to from Spa with Depuis and his
wife."

Charles folds the bit of paper and puts
it into his pocket ; but it feels like stolen
goods there. It is the first time he has
ventured to do anything of importance
without consulting his brothers ; and he

knows that Jacques will be displeased
when he hears of it, and that Auguste will
make rude and stinging speeches. After
all, has he been prudent ? he knows
nothing about this stranger. These
thoughts trouble him as he goes down
the dark staircase, but in the yard he
meets his brother Auguste face to
face.

"I thought you were lost," says the
rough, jeering voice. "You have surely
not been talking all this while to that
scamp with the red beard ? "

"I " Charles laughs, and stoops

down to drive out the chickens, who
have strayed from the yard into the
passage  "I had other fish to fry;
but why do you call that man a
scamp ? "

It is not I who call him a
scamp; it is Jacques;" and at the
name of his elder brother, Charles
feels very red and guilty ; for it is impossible

to own to dear, old, infallible Jacques
that he has undertaken a commission fora
man who is a scamp. Either he must
give it up, or he must keep it secret. At
this last thought, the gay face is clouded,
and Charles gives a heavy sigh. He has
rarely had a secret that he has not shared
with some one, and this is not merely a
passive secret. He wonders whether he
has been such a fool as Auguste thinks
him. He goes softly upstairs again, and
peeps over the curtains of the glass-door,
to have another survey of his acquaintance.


The scamp " has finished writing, and
is standing, whistling, with his hands in
his pockets. While Charles is still looking,'
the scamp takes out a cigar and
begins to light it. At this Charles walks
in.

"Monsieur," he says, politely, "we do
not smoke in the salon ; if Mon sieur will
have the goodness to come downstairs  "

the poor fellow rubs his hands, and smiles
in the most deprecating fashion.

Vidonze looks round the bare, barn-like
room, and gives a laugh of such a quality
that convinces his hearer he is no relative
of Mademoiselle Jeanne's.

Look here, my good fellow," says the
photographer, " I smoke where I please ;
but try these, they are excellent," and
he draws out of his pocket a bundle of
cigars.

Charles loves smoking  and his brothers
tell him that cigars are an unattainable
luxury to a man in his position  the
temptation is great. He stretches out his
hand, then withdraws it  how shall he
account for the possession of them ?
How can he be seen smoking with a
man whom Jacques has called c< a
scamp ?"

Monsieur must pardon me," he says,
almost with tears, for the longing is irresistible,
" but I have business just now.

I cannot have the pleasure of smoking
with Monsieur."

I have business too," says Vidonze.
Mon Bleu ! smoke them when you please,
my good fellow; the cigars are yours," and
he puts them down on the table. He nods,
and going lazily downstairs, he asks
Auguste Cajot, standing at the open
kitchen door, when the diligence leaves
Aywaille.

"In an hour's time," says Auguste,
gruffly. He disapproves of travellers who
rush in and out, and take no regular meal ;
and he does not like this loud-tongued
photographer.

Charles has taken the cigars, and has
smoked one ; he has stowed the others carefully
away. Presently as he sits at his
desk beside the open window the light
is darkened, and looking up he sees a
smiling red face, with a very sharp expression
in its big, bold eyes.

Good day, Monsieur Charles, I am

off," says Vidonze. " You will not forget
to write to me. Au revoir"

Charles Cajot only hangs his
head, he wishes those cigars were
again in the pocket of his departing
guest.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXII.

Pauline's friend.

Jeanne looked very grave as she
 walked along the dusty road that led
to the Hospice. She had received that
morning a letter from Monsieur Raoul de
Matagne. In this letter, though he did not
profess any warmth of love, yet he
showed more regard for her than Jeanne
expected. The part of the letter that jarred
was the writer's evident conviction that
it was her duty to marry him. It would
give her, he said, an able protector and
an assured position ; no one could then
question her right to the name of De
Matagne, and he ended with a clause that

he plainly thought must enforce her
consent :

To a fiendlike yours, bent on helping its
fellows, surely any increase of power must
be welcome, and I assure you that a life of
study has convinced me that two persons
working in the sympathy produced by marriage,
have far greater power of doing good
than each would have as a single worker;
one brain helps the other, and supplements
its deficiencies ; or perhaps it is more true to
say that one perhaps works with the brain
while the ready hands of the other make
ideas of practical use."

Jeanne sighed and frowned as she
thought over the letter.

I could not marry such a man, he would
make me wicked," she said ; " he is so dull
and formal and fussy in all he does, that
I should get tired of life if I had to pass it
with him. Oh "  she threw back her head
and shivered  " T should either run away
or my heart would break in such a dull

u 2

routine; duty would be hateful done as
mere duty, without the love that makes it
an offering."

She had seen enough of Raoul deMatagne
to know that his wish to benefit his
fellow-creatures was entirely human ; there
was no higher motive in it. She had come
in sight of the avenue of the Hospice, and,
when she saw sister Sophie standing by
the gate at the top of the steps, her face
cleared. The beaming cheerfulness of the
gentle sister, always hard at work for
others, and yet doing it all for the love of
God, and not to please self, seemed
to make Jeanne feel ashamed of the
time she had given to her own perplexity.


But Sister Sophie did not yet see her ;
she was bending down to a lady who
carried a beautiful basket of flowers.
She had closed the gate behind this visitor,
and was ushering her into the Hospice,
when Jeanne called out from below. She

ran lightly up the steps, and was at
the gate before the sister unlocked it.
Pauline had also turned back, and Sophie
looked from one girl to the other and
smiled.

You are two of our good angels met
together," she said, merrily, " and I must
make you known to one another. Mademoiselle
Jeanne, this is Madame Pauline,
who brings the lovely flowers you admired
so much. ,,

The two girls smiled and bowed, and
then took a long look at one another.
Jeanne was pleased with Pauline's pretty,
bright face and timid, shrinking manner ;
but Pauline was completely fascinated by
the pale, frank face, so full of power and
of truth. It seemed to her that this girl
might be the friend she had been seeking ;
there would be help and rest too in such a
woman as this. Jeanne's figure had developed
since she had been at Montcour ;

she was really younger than Pauline, but
she looked older.

Sister Sophie smiled at them with delight.
She saw that they liked one another.
Pardon, Mesdames, I must go to our poor
Angelique," she said, " she will not spare
me to-day ; the heat frets her. Madame
and Mademoiselle will find their own way."

Shall we go into the garden and sit
down ?" said Pauline ; " it is very pleasant
there in the shade."

Jeanne's clear ; brown eyes were full of
surprise.

I must not stay long," she said, Cf and
I came to read to one of the poor women
here who is blind."

Cannot you come into the garden ?
must you read all the time?" Pauline
felt greatly disappointed at Jeanne's
answer.

Jeanne smiled. " No ; but I have also
promised to help the crippled girl, Marie,
with a new knitting pattern ; and I must

not hinder you ; you have some friends
here, no doubt, whom you wish to
see."

Pauline laughed. " I talk to them all
in turn," she said, "but I am too shy to
read aloud, and I could never teach anyone
anything. I am not clever;" she gave so
wistful a glance at her tall companion that
Jeanne was touched.

I expect you do more for them than I
do," she said. " They are delighted to
be talked to, and then you bring them
beautiful flowers; and besides," she blushed,
11 it must be a treat to them even to look
at you."

Pauline smiled with pleasure. " How
kind you are to say so I" she said. " I
hope we shall meet again soon. May
I give you a flower to remind you of
me ?" She took from her basket a half-opened
yellow rose, and held it out to
Jeanne.

Thank you very much," said Jeanne.

It is a prize, for the roses are over in
our garden."

"You have a garden then. Do you
live here? I thought perhaps you were
a visitor at one of the hotels."

We have a house a little way out of the
town on this side the river near Bouvignes.
Now I must say good-bye, and thank you
again." She nodded and went away.

Pauline stood watching her till she was
out of sight.

I longed to kiss her," she said, "I quite
love her; but I do not think she cares for me.
It is not likely anyone so tall and grand-looking
could care for a shy, insignificant
little thing who is afraid of everybody. I
wonder if Edmund would like her. He
does not admire Elise Herkenne; but
then he says she does not look
good. Now this girl looks like an angel ;
she is quite as stylish as Elise, and, oh,
so much sweeter ; she does not frighten
me; and yet perhaps she is cold." Pauline

sighed. "I believe all tall women
are cold," she said.

Only that morning she had tried to confide
in Mademoiselle Herkenne, but the
post had brought Vidonze's letter
from Rernouchamps, and Elise had been
too much absorbed by her own anxieties
to care to listen. Pauline had
come sadly upstairs again, wishing she
had been less reserved with Madame
Boulotte. Till now she had suffered in
silence, but she felt that, unless Edmund's
mood changed, she must share her trouble
with some one. He was not unkind  and
if he had been she would not have betrayed
him  she only wanted advice ; she felt
persuaded that, if she only knew the right
way to behave towards him, she could
make Edmund's life happier than it was
at present. She had never been very
religious, and since she left Namur she
had grown careless about religion altogether.


I am such a coward," she said, sadly ;
anyone but me would say, ' Edmund,
what has happened to make you so dull
and silent since we went to Eimay
have I done anything* to vex you ?'
but I dare not. He would only look
gravely at me and shake his head,
or he would say in the coldest way,
You are quite mistaken, Pauline.
Why do you torment yourself with
fancies ?'"

Sometimes she tried to persuade herself
that he was absorbed by his work, and had
no thoughts to spare for anyone else ; but
each time she saw him the indefinable something
was there again. She would have
been so glad to believe in him. Since she
had come to Dinant, she had had more
time for reading, and she had tried a few
novels ; they did not greatly interest
her, but they had made her think; in
them she learned that love is always full
of self-tormenting fears, and that its fancies



are often most opposed to fact. But, alas !
she was not long in learning also another
aphorism from them, that a woman who
loves devotedly and unselfishly is not
wholly blind. She is blind to the faults of
her idol, but not to his love or want of
love for herself. The more she strives to
be content and exacting, the more
keen becomes her conviction of the truth.
As yet Pauline clung with desperate
tenacity to the hope that the cause of
change lay in herself, and that therefore
she might learn in time to win her husband
back.

One wonders why no statues are erected
to Hope. Surely we owe more to her than
to any other benefactor. There is no such
stimulus to life or exertion ; without hope
Pauline would have died, life would have
seemed to her a crime if she was always
to make her husband unhappy.

To-day, however, when the time came
for his return from painting, she felt

brighter than she had been since she
had come back from Rimayy. She had
really something to talk about, something
which might rouse Edmund from his
newspaper.

It was touching to see how prudent the
poor girl had grown ; she waited till dinner
was over, and then when Edmund had
praised some chocolate creams she
had taken much trouble in providing,
she began to talk before he had
even stretched out his hand for the newspaper.


I have made an acquaintance to-day,"
she said.

Have you ?" She saw his eyes wandering
towards the paper.

Yes, I met her at the Hospice ; such
a charming girl  so amiable, and yet
she looks just like a queen. She is tall,
and she walks so well, and carries her
head just in the way you artists
admire."

Edmund gave her a little startled
look.

What makes you say I admire stately
people ?"

Why, you always look at them, and the
figures you put in your landscapes are
tall and queen-like. Oh ! I know," she
smiled at him, proud of her discovery ;
but it is her face that I admire so
much. Shall I tell you what she is
like ?"

He nodded. " Yes, if you like."

She is pale, but her skin is transparent,
though one sees she has got a little sunburnt;
then she has clear brown eyes, not
very dark, but with a sort of golden light
in them that fascinates me, and that contrasts
well with her dark eyelashes. It is
odd that her eyebrows and eyelashes are
so much darker than her hair ; it is
light brown, almost auburn, and it
waves over her forehead in soft, silky
ripples."

She had looked at Edmund as she
spoke, and she was surprised to see the
increasing interest in his face : but as she
ended, he rose up quickly, and walked to
the window, though it was already
growing dusk. Presently he turned
round.

What is her name ? " he said.

Mademoiselle de Matagne. She is a
resident here, and lives a little way
out."

Ah ! " and Edmund went up to the
table, where his newspaper lay waiting
for him. He took it, sat down, and
began to read.

Pauline was vexed at this indifference.


"But is it not nice for me to find
some one I can make a friend of ?
You do not seem to care for Elise
Herkenne. I feel as if I could love this
girl."

He laid down his newspaper and laughed
at her.

My dear child, it is not necessary
that I should love your friends too,
is it ? I think Mademoiselle Herkenne is
too old and too sad for you, and if this
young lady pleases you, by all means make
her your friend."

"Thank you;" and in her joy she went
up and kissed him.

Edward was touched. He put his
arm round her, as she stood beside
him.

I sometimes think you are an angel,"
he said. " Many girls, left alone
as you are, would choose their own
friends, without regard to their husband's
wishes. You are a model wife, my
Pauline."

He kissed her, and Pauline could not
help crying for joy.

Am I really ? " she whispered. " Ah,

Edmund, how kind you are ! you don't
know how happy you have made
me."

That is all right," he said ; but he only
gave her a friendly nod and smile, and
went back to his newspaper.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

London: Printed by A. Scliulze, 13, Poland Street.

f

VOL. III.

A TALE

BY

KATHARINE S. MACQUOID

AUTHOR OF

"PATTY," "DIANE,"

"IN THE SWEET SPRING TIME,"

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1881.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

THE THIRD VOLUME.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/besiderivertale03macq

CHAPTER I.

THE cure's perplexity.

Then, while travelling in France and
 ' Belgium, one comes upon an isolated
presbytery, in some wretched, lonely
village, with its plot of flowers, or sometimes
a paddock in front, its kitchen garden
behind, and close by the never absent
orchard, with perhaps a crop of barley,
whitening beneath rosy apples and golden
plums  one is apt, as one looks at the
miserable huts around, with a dunghill
under each front window, and a pool of
black water before each door, to spend a

VOL. III. B

good deal of pity on Monsieur le Cure,
who goes on from month to month, and
year to year and hardly ever exchanges a
sentence with anyone but the peasants
around him, more like the pigs that
feed beside their houses than human
beings.

Perhaps the pity bestowed is often wasted.
The priest, if he be a good man, has two
fixed ideas  he must take care of the
souls of his flock, and he must make as
much money as he can for the Church.
His garden and a bit of land give him
sufficient occupation, and he has absolutely
no cares. His pig, his chickens,
and his vegetables, with the corn in his
granary, suffice for his simple wants. He
even prepares his own coffee from dried
roots ; and almost always he has a notable
housekeeper, who will usually make five
sous go as far as ten would in less skilled*
hands. He does not usually read anything
unconnected with his daily duties;

there is no mental hunger in his serene
soul, and, as he stands under the leafy
arch over his gateway, white-haired and
black-robed, with his benevolent pink face,
and in his hand a well-thumbed breviary,
with scarlet book-marks therein  he makes
a picture suggestive of far more idyllic
and of less bucolic life than the actual life
he leads.

And yet sometimes there is a reverse to
this picture. The Cure may be a man of
gentle breeding and cultivated mind, born
with that thirst for culture which no employment
however engrossing can stifle ;
then the monotony and isolation are painful.
Monsieur Hallez was in this case,
he had often wished he lived nearer
a town, so that he might sometimes
consult with his fellow-priests, and also
be less isolated with regard to current
events ; but he had never had the wish so
strongly as when he stood alone in his
study after Edmund Depuis left him. He

B 2

BESIDE THE Ever.

felfc as if a blow had stunned him, and
indeed he had got a heavy blow.

Jeanne was to him what a child might
have been, and being a man of warm and
strong affections, he had suffered for her
in her trials as a father would have suffered.
But he had hoped, and he had also
bid the girl hope, that some day it would
be God's will to restore her to Edmund
Depuis.

The Cure had carefully studied Madame
Delimoy, and, although he had no means
of knowing, he felt pretty sure that
Jeanne's lover had not been fairly dealt
with by her grandmother; it seemed to
him, too, that the old woman who had
lived alone for so many years before Jeanne
came to her, had been selfish in exacting
the promise she had exacted from her
grand-daughter. When Madame Delimoy
died. Monsieur Hallez had at first planned
to find Jeanne a home in a convent near
Riraay till he could discover whether edmund

still wished to marry her. The Care
believed in true love, and in constancy,
and it would have been a labour of love
with him to bring this pair together ; but
Mademoiselle de Matagne's sudden appearance
on the scene, and her prompt
offer to befriend Jeanne, seemed to him
too providential to withstand. He saw,
too, that the girl clung to this kind new
friend, and he hoped that she would
arrange matters with Edmund Depuis
far better than he could hope todo.


It might have been better for Jeanne if
the good priest had been less humble,
had relied more on his own judgment,
and had acted promptly in the matter. By
the time that Jeanne had become intimate
enough with Mademoiselle de Matagne
to tell her story to her, Edmund had
promised to marry Pauline.

Monsieur Hallez stood still in his study,
with bent head and hands clasped together,

stricken to the heart, with this great sorrow
which had fallen on his beloved Jeanne.
And, worse than all, he must tell her
what he knew ; he must, humanly speaking,
himself lay this grief on his dear
child.

He was sure that she did not know it.
In her letter to him written from Mont-cour
announcing their journey to Spa, she
had spoken to him the hope she felt
that, now that they were likely to visit more
than one town, she might perhaps see
Edmund Depuis. Monsieur Hallez had
thought much about this touching hope,
timidly expressed, and he had felt a
longing to help Jeanne, though he could
not well see the way. Jeanne had
begged him not to speak of her to
Madame Boulotte, and indeed he felt
that the widow had resented the part
he had taken in the girl's disappearance.
They had once met and spoken in Rimayy ;
since then he had seen Madame Boulotte

cross the street to get out of bis way.
And now after what he had heard, when
he desired to warn Jeanne, to tell her
that every loving thought she bestowed
on the love of her girlhood was henceforth
deadly sin, and must be checked even if the
effort cost her an agony of pain  he did not
know where to find her. She had said
that she should not write again till their
plans seemed more settled; that she hoped
they would soon return to Chateau Mont-cour,
and, if they did, would it not be
possible for Monsieur le Cure to get away
for a few days, and to spend them with her.

It would be too delightful," she wrote,
"and indeed I shall give you no peace.
Father, till you say Yes. When next I
write it will be to tell you we are expecting
your visit."

But, though weeks had passed, there had
been no letter from Jeanne, and the poor
Care did not know what to do. It was
horrible to think that the poor child

might meet Monsieur Depuis before she
knew of his marriage.

Tbe Cure had an old sister, a mother
of many children ; if he could only reach
her and send her to Jeanne, it would
be the best way, he thought a woman
would know how to tell the news to her
tenderly ; a letter would be so sudden.

'' And even then," he said sadly, '' I
do not know where to find the dear child.
But how faithless I am ! Andre Hallez, you
who preach to others to trust in God, is
there not One who, if you ask Him, will
strengthen this poor lamb to bear the
cross he sends ? Surely prayer can do
more to help Jeanne than any other
way."

He had said to Edmund Depuis he
had no reason to suppose that Jeanne
still loved him, there was a possibility
"that change of scene" might have
changed her. But though he said this
to himself the Cure did not believe it.

'' I must pray for her," he said.

And when the good priest came in from
evening service in the little church where
he had asked his flock to pray for '' one
about to meet a grievous trouble," he
sat down and wrote as tenderly as he
could to Jeanne the story of Edmund
Depuis. He was careful not to speak
of Edmund personally, and he advised
Jeanne to try and forget him. But he was
very heavy-hearted when he had finished
the letter. He addressed it to Mademoiselle
de Matagne, Chateau Montcour,
Kemouchamps. But he waited to seethe
postman next morning, and gave it into
his own hands. Even with that address
he was afraid of revealing Jeanne's hiding-place
to Yidonze.

*' If he were a better man," he said, '' I
should be thankful to see her married to
him ; but Jeanne could not love a man of
that stamp ; and I am sure she will not
marry unless she loves."

He turned back to the presbytery, buta
cloud had fallen over his peaceful life. He
could only think of Jeanne and her deep
sorrow.

CHAPTER 11.

ELISE HEEKENNe's SCHEMES.

TT is a true if an old image  bub then
there is nothing new under the sun,
and, moreover, unless one can better them,
which rarely happens, old things are
better than new things, an adventurous
assertion in this self-glorifying generation,
which, in its own judgment, has improved
on all that has gone before  the old
image in question is that of a pebble
dropped into still water, and the ever-spreading
circle so small an event
creates.

That drive to the cottage beside the

river, which seemed to Pauline when she
set out on it a mere pastime, had during
the weeks that followed spoiled many lives
which seemed removed from its influence.
Cheerful Jules Baconfoy, who usually shook
off* vexation as if it were a troublesome
fly, found himself continually wondering
whether Edmund had recovered his spirits ;
and Madame Boulotte was so troubled
that she had made up her mind, " if that
silly little Pauline does not soon write," to
go over to Dinant and judge for herself
what was amiss between Edmund Depuis
and his wife. But these were the results
of sympathy, like the outside circles on
the pool scarcely stirring the smooth
water beyond ; there were two other lives
which the shock had agitated so violently
that it seemed as if the circle might deepen
into a whirlpool, so incessant was the stir
around.

The letter which Yidonze had written
from the vine-covered inn at Remouchamps

greatly alarmed Mademoiselle Herkenne.
It showed her that she had been deceived
in fancying the man she loved was cured of
his passion for Jeanne Lahaye ; and she
felt keenly afraid that, as he had found
the beginning of the clue, it might unravel
itself to the end, and reveal Jeanne's
present abode.

Dinant was full of people, and Antoine's
photographs were in constant demand. It
was only when night had closed in that
Else had time to think, and bend her
scheming brain into an endeavour to meet
this danger.

At first thought was Hke a blank wall,
there was no outlet. She had studied
Vidonze carefully, and she felt how almost
impossible it would be to turn him from
a purpose, once decided on. Then she
estimated the profits that he had reaped ;
the change that had come into his affairs
since she had taken the management of
them. If she could not count on his

gratitude, would not self-interest have
some power over his affections ?

I am only what life has made me,"
she said, drawing herself up, while her
thin Hps curled cynically. " I can never
count on what are called ' good motives'  I
mean, superfluous motives  all that is real
comes from self. If Antoine loved me
then gratitude would be a real motive,
because it would give him pleasure to
show it to me; but I do not believe in
what is beyond nature. If I can prove to
him the increase in his income, and say at
the same time, 'I intend to leave your
service,' his gratitude, or self-interest, for
it is the same thing, after all, may take
the shape of liking me ; he may say,
No, stay with me, and ask what inducement
you please for remaining' and
1 "

She stopped. Then she rose up, with
a movement of repulsion, as if she
shrank from some visible object of

dislike; her dark face crimsoned, and
she covered her eyes with her hands.

She stood struggling: with herself for
many minutes. Her love for Vidonze,
every better part of her nature, recoiled
from offering herself as the price of her
services ; and unless she did this, what
remained ? Hope, that precious jewel of
life, had lost its dazzling lustre in her
eyes. Life held no glamour for Elise;
she saw it in its naked truth, stripped of
all disguise and softening of outline.
Antoine did not love her; he could not,
because he loved Jeanne Lahaye. With
the name came a vivid vision of the pale,
noble face, and of the fearless truth she
had read in those brown eyes. She could
have stamped with fury.

She is pure, but she is cold ; and that
is the sort of woman to hold Antoine till
death. He would not care for ardour like
his own ; indifference would spur him onto
conquest."

She knew that Jeanne had fled from
Vidonze, and she thought that possibly
the girl cared for Edmund Depuis; but
this last had not been proved ; and,
moreover, Else felt that the owner
of that face would never yield to her
love for another woman's husband; still
Jeanne would not have hung over those
views as she had done, if she had not
felt some special interest in them. A
chink of light at last  and she started
as it flashed into her dark, scheming
brain.

It was possible that Jeanne had
never heard of Edmund's marriage with
Pauline.

"Why should I not find her out, and
tell her that Depuis and his wife are here,
and that she runs the risk of meeting
Vidonze any day ?"

A smile spread over her sombre face.
But Elise Herkenne was not a woman to
act on impulse. She examined this idea

carefully, and she found that only the first
side of it promised help. As she turned
it round she saw that it was possible that
Jeanne did not love Edraond Depuis,
that she knew of his marriage, and also ot
his presence in Dinant ; again, if she did
love him, and shrank from the risk of
meeting him, the very fear of herself might
make her think of marriage, and in this
case Antoine Yidonze would have as good
a chance as anyone else  perhaps a better
one.

Yes," said Elise, thoughtfully, "she
is more likely to keep single if she does
not learn Depuis is married ; and while
Antoine is watching for her beside the
Amblve, he will not dream of her presence
here."

There was certain risk if Yidonze came to
Dinant ; but this must be endured. If
matters were as she hoped with Jeanne,
she would avoid Antoine as much as ever,
even if they met, and she then learned

VOL. III.

from him the fact of Edmund's marriage.
Elise smiled as she pictured the savage
exultation with which the news would
be told ; this would destroy the photographer's
own hopes with Jeanne.

'' He loves her too much to be prudent,"
she thought, " and in such a moment he
would destroy all chance of success; no
man who really loves was ever wise in his
way of telling his love  seldom wise in
it at all. Blind fools !" her lips curled and
quivered with furious contempt, " they
lavish treasures on blocks of marble,
and leave warm hearts to die of thirst."

But her passion exhausted her ; she sat
down again, and deliberately calmed herself,
till she felt quiet enough to think
again.

I am much where I began," she
thought, *' except that I see less risk
than I saw before in Antoine's coming
here. Yes  he must come. I must and
will see him. Why should I go on

longing like a silly school-girl, when I
feel able to make things happen as I
choose ?"

And yet the greatest risk had happened,
and she had not dreamed of
it. It was strange that this keen-sighted
woman never once thought of
the risk there might be in the meeting
of Pauline Depuis and Jeanne
Lahaye.

c 2

CHAPTER III.

Pauline's confidence.

TT was a brilliant morning, the wind was
- south-west, and a few detached, fleecy
clouds moved now and then across the
clear blue as if they were restless and
did not enjoy the sunshine as all nature
below them did. By midday these discontented
clouds had called others to their
council, and had so overspread the blue
that now and then the sun himself
was veiled by their restless and ruffled
presence, and gave a pale, watery light
instead of the warm gold of the earlier

morning.

Monsieur Eugene had been more than
usually absent at breakfast ; but when
Jeanne asked him if he wanted her, or if
he had any commissions for her, he
looked out of window before he answered.


You will not be able to go to the
Hospice to-day, my child. We shall have
rain before long."

Jeanne was surprised. She had put the
question as a matter of form, for Monsieur
Eugene never interfered with her plans ;
usually he was too much wrapped up in
his dreams of music to appear interested
in the small affairs of life.

I do not mind rain much," she said ;
perhaps the sky may clear before I

go."

He gave her a timid, wistful look. He
was far less reserved with Jeanne as regarded
music than he had been with his
sister. Mademoiselle de Matagne had been
an accomplished musician, and had visited

cities where the best music is to be heard ;
and the nervous dreamer had often feared to
ask her to listen to his somewhat crude
creations; but this simple Jeanne knew
nothing of music as a science, though she
adored its sound, and she loved to listen to
the invalid as he sat improvising in the
summer evenings. The girl loved to watch
him too. His withered face glowed,
and his pale eyes grew dark and luminous,
as he spoke out his thoughts in music,
carried out of his usual shyness by some
irresistible force.

As Jeanne watched and thought, the
idea came to her that he must be by
nature garrulous, and that the words in
which he could have revealed his feelings,
checked from utterance by an
invincible timidity, burst into life in
music. She worshipped this almost
hidden gift with a sort of tender reverence,
and she had learned to interpret
his wishes almost at once, and thus

saved Inn the need of effort, which she
knew would be painful.

There is something you wish," she
said, lovingly ; '' what is it, dear uncle?"

He smiled kindly at her.

I am always selfish to you, my Jeanne.
Yes, I want you to listen to something that
has come to me this morning, and that
I fear to lose."

His withered face was very sweet with
a beseeching expression as he looked at
Jeanne.

She rose up, patted his shoulder, and
then led the way to his study, and took her
usual seat beside the piano.

He began, at first in a mournful strain
with a sweet undertone, sounding now and
then as if in protest ; but as it went on
the music became so pathetic that Jeanne
was moved to tears. She almost laughed
at herself, it seemed so foolish, but her
heart, which had felt so bright and light
in the sunshine, had grown suddenly

heavy ; she had no power against this
sudden depression, or against the tears
that stole down her cheeks. But the
music changed; it was still sad, but no
longer pathetic, there was anguish, almost
a moan, in it, like the wind careering over a
bleak moor. The strain grew wilder, and
more weird, charged as with a passionate
despair, till the human element seemed to
die out, and a mad turbulence hurried on
the wasted fingers with vehement energy.
Jeanne's eyes were fixed on Monsieur
Eugene, there was no shrinking timidity in
his face now. The power of his gift shone
out triumphant, his eyes were brilliant and
fearless ; it was as if some hidden treasure
cave had suddenly burst open at the fulfilment
of a spell.

If others could only see him like this,"
the girl thought, how differently they
would think of him ! but she looked sad-she
knew that directly he ceased playing
his timid, absent manner would close

over Monsieur Eugene; and that probably
he would remain in his room
for the rest of the day, with so distressing
a nervous head-ache that he could
not bear even her presence beside him.
Presently the rapid fingers slackened,
and then came a hurried strain with a
sobbing undertone as if the sorrow lay
quieted, but not quenched. Then he stopped
suddenly, and gave Jeanne a bright, appealing
look.

'' It is beautiful. Ah, if you could only
write it, it would make you ever so famous,"
she said, warmly.

He flushed a little.

I do not care for fame, dear child ; but
I wish I could write it if you think it
would give pleasure to others I will
try, yes, I should be glad, it would be
my way of giving pleasure; I have
no other." He stole a little shamefaced
look at her, and then he turned
away.

Jeanne was deeply touched, it was the
first time he had ever alluded to his own
shyness, though he had more than once
betrayed a consciousness of it. She took
his hand and kissed it.
" Thank you, dear uncle, you have given
me so much happiness ;" as she looked at
him she was shocked to see how pale
he grew, and how exhausted he looked.
You will lie down now, will you not ?"
she said.

He did not answer, tears were running
down his withered cheeks ; he was utterly
worn out; and when Jeanne hurried away
and sent his man to him, he let himself be
put on a sofa like a child, and he soon fell
asleep.

The sky had cleared again while Jeanne
sat listening; and she started for the
Hospice. The sun was shining when she
began her walk, but she could not shake
off the weird influence of the music; she
felt out of tune with the sunshine ; and when

she drew near the suburb of St. Retard,
at one end of which the Hospice stands,
and clouds once more obscured all
brightness, they seemed more in keeping
with her feelings. Monsieur Eugene's
music had often made her sad, but
this was scarcely sadness to-day, it was
a chill of fear, a sensation that some
unseen cause of terror lay near her  nay,
Jeanne felt as if it were gradually approaching
her with silent, stealing
steps.

But the sight of Sister Sophie, at the
farther end of the grass-grown avenue,
with her jingling bunch of keys and her
face a perfect sunbeam as she recognised
her visitor, swept away the cloud from
Jeanne's spirits as a broom clears away a
noisome cobweb.

'welcome many times, my dear young
lady. I had but just let in our other
sweet angel, Madame Pauline, and before
I leave the gate I see you coming also.

It is a fortunate day for us, and for
all our poor people when you two
come."

How are they all ?" said Jeanne ; " as
well as when I was last here, I hope ?"

Sister Sophie shook her head.

*' I will not croak, it is better to leave
that to the ravens; but"  she went on
still smiling  'your dear Mother Rosalie has
had a stroke, and she will not be here
long."

Jeanne felt saddened again, she had
grown fond of good-natured, gossiping
Rosalie.

Can I see her ?" she said.

Yes, certainly, if you wish it. She
cannot speak, but she knows us, and a
sight of your sweet face will do her good.
What a difference there is in tastes ! that
sweet Madame Pauline has known the poor
old creature longer than you have, but
when I asked her to come and see her,
she said she dared not, she had never

seen anyone so near death as we think
dear Rosalie is."

Jeanne followed in silence; but when
they reached the top of the stairs they
were met by a sister, who said the doctor
was with her patient, and that he did not
wish her to see visitors.

Well, well," said Sister Sophie, "Mademoiselle
will have the goodness to talk to
some of her other friends  Ah !" She
crossed herself devoutly and pointed to
the window. " Did you see the lightning.
Mademoiselle, and look how dark it
grows ! I fear a storm hangs over
Dinant."

She pointed to the window in the gallery
which faced the river, and there was
a livid purple cloud hanging over the cliff,
behind the houses of Dinant ; hanging so
low that it seemed as if it must burst over
the town.

Monsieur Eugene was right," Jeanne
said to herself.

The cloud spread rapidly, the storm
grew worse, and the metallic glare of
the lightning gave a ghastly brightness
to the room where Jeanne sat,
talking to some of the inmates of
the Hospice, the thunder crashed so
frightfully that the house seemed to
rock to and fro. As the blue flame
flashed over their pale faces, some of the
girls shrieked, and others crouched beside
Jeanne and hid their faces in her lap. She
was trying to soothe and re-assure them,
when Sister Sophie came in, with an unusually
anxious face.

Holy Virgin !"  she crossed herself 
"you have indeed a task. Mademoiselle ;
but you will find Madame Pauline in the
parlour; the storm has frightened her
sadly ; and when I said that you were
here, she begged that you would come
to her."

Jeanne would have liked to stay with
the frightened girls, but the sister

held the door open for her to pass
out

The whitewashed parlour was bare of
all ornaments but a crucifix. PauKne,
sat crouched in a high-backed chair, her
eyes covered with her hands ; but, when
the door opened, she started up. At the
sight of Jeanne, she ran forward and
clasped her arms round her in agony of
terror. She tried to speak, but only a
burst of hysterical sobbing came.

Jeanne was touched. She passed her
arm lovingly round the clinging girl, and
tried to soothe her terror.

It will soon be over," she said ;
*' come and sit down. I am sorry you
were left alone'*

Pauline wiped her eyes, and then stole
an ashamed look at Jeanne.

"Ah, you will think me such a miserable
coward, but I cannot help it, I
dared not go among the girls ; I feared
they would laugh at me. I was so

frightened when I saw the lightning that
I ran away and covered up my face ;
but I could not shut out the thunder.
Oh, it is terrible! Ah, mon Dieu T' she
cried out, as the lightning flashed into
the room, and the thunder bellowed
among the hills.

Jeanne stood beside her, holding
her hands, and now and then trying
to quiet her; but even when, after a
while, the violence of the storm lessened,
Pauline shuddered as if she still heard
it.

My husband would be so vexed," she
sobbed, and she looked up at Jeanne as if
she were a superior being. " He says I
am so silly to be frightened ; but what
can one do when one cannot help it?"
she gave a faint smile.

Her eyes looked imploring, and so sweet
that Jeanne thought the husband could
not be really hard in judging this tender,
clinging creature.

'Tear in a storm is a question of temperament,
I suppose. It is hard to be angry
with anyone about it," said Jeanne ; " some
of those poor girls were sadly alarmed."

Pauline gave her a timid, grateful
look. She drew her chair closer to
Jeanne's, and softly stroked the back of
her hand.

*' You were not afraid. Ah, I wish
I were like you. I don't fancy you
ever feel silly  there again ! " She trembled
violently as a louder peal once more
shook the house. " You did not even
shudder."

My nerves are stronger than yours,
that is all," Jeanne said, " and I have
very good health."

But, surely,"  Pauline clasped her
hands tightly over Jeanne's  '' you feel
some fear ? "

Jeanne smiled. " I feel awe, but 1
do not much know how I feel," she said.

Pauline shook her head. She had mas-vol.

III. D

tered her sobs, but she still looked white
and scared.

"Ah, you are not married. If you had
to be always trying to please your husband,
you would know too much about
your own feelings," she said, sadly.

Jeanne was startled, almost shocked.
She sat silent ; she wished the storm
would cease.

Pauline's eyes grew large as they gazed
at her new friend.

Yes, I know you must despise me,"
she said ; " you are wise, like my husband.
You do not know what it is to long to be
different from what you are, so that you may
please another person ; but J cannot help
being weak and silly, though I hate to be
so."

She hid her face in her handkerchief
and sat crying silently, while she trembled
from head to foot with the agitation she
had gone through.

Jeanne was troubled. She did not

know what to say, but her sympathy
helped her.

Indeed, I do not think you silly," she
said, gently. *' The storm has been very
awful, and it was worse for you than for
us others, because you were alone."

Pauline gave her hand a grateful squeeze,
and then, as if she feared either that
Jeanne would refuse to listen, or that the
precious opportunity would be snatched
from her, she talked on in a hurried, excited
voice.

I love the storm now, for it has
brought you to my help. I must open
my heart to you. Ever since I saw you
I have felt that you are the help I want.
I cannot explain it ; I do not understand
it myself. Yes, yes,"  for Jeanne was trying
to speak  " that is why I cannot bear
you to despise me ; because then you will
not be my friend, and yet you would if you
knew the joy it was to me to see you come
in just now."

D 2

She paused, and looked up beseechingly
at Jeanne; her dark eyes full of emotion and
a bright spot of excitement on each
pale cheek.

It seemed to Jeanne that all this was
over-strained and unreal. She felt
strangely drawn to like this pretty little
nervous, loving creature ; but it was
absurd to imagine that she, a mere
stranger, could help her.

Will you be my friend, and will you
come and see me ?" said PauHne, timidly,
for this silence discouraged her.

Jeanne bent down and kissed her.

"You are very kind to me," she said,
"I shall much like to go and see you
some day if you will tell me where yon
live."

"Will you come with me to-day?"
said Pauline eagerly.

Jeanne shook her head.

Not to-day, thank you ; I must go
home directly it leaves off raining, for my

uncle is an invalid, and this scorn has
no doubt alarmed him, and I am anxious
at being so long away from him."

When will you come here again ?"

That must also depend on my uncle's
health ; in any case I cannot come till
Saturday."

' And this is Tuesday." PauUne gave a
deep sigh. 'every well, then on Saturday
you will come home with me. I wish
you could have come to day, you would
have saved me some unhappiness." Her
voice was so plaintive that Jeanne was
troubled.

' What could I have done ?"

Pauline clasped her own small hands
nervously, and bit her lip.

It seems strange to tell you, so suddenly,
and yet you cannot help me
unless you know my trouble. I am not
happy ; I fear my  my husband has
left off loving me, and I know it is
my fault, and oh "  she broke down in

sudden bitter weeping  *' I do not know
what to do."

Jeanne was sadly perplexed.

"There is always one's priest to consult,"
she said shyly.

Pauline darted a quick glance at her, and
then she reddened.

'* Yes ; but I told you it was my fault  I
have given up old-fashioned ways, and now
I cannot go back to them  not just yet.
Tell me  I know you can tell me if you
choose  how shall I win my husband
back?"

Her vehemence acted upon Jeanne, and
she felt interested in this strange confidence,
even while she shrank from it with a kind
of repulsion.

What makes you say that I can help
you ? I have never been married."

Pauline looked at her with a sort of
forlorn jealousy.

I believe I am going to say something
foolish  dangerous ; but you are not like

other women, I can see in your face that
you will not take advantage of it. It is
because I feel that you are just the sort of
girl that my husband would love ; just the
sort of wife that I ought to be, that makes
me know you can advise and help me. Ah,
I know it too well."

A strange cold air seemed to pass over
Jeanne ; for a moment she felt strongly
repelled ; and then came the thought of
Edmund, with the gladness that always
warmed her heart. It doubled her pity
for this poor little unloved wife.

Are you sure," she said, '' that it is not
your fancy ? I have heard that men show
their feelings less than women do ; and
they may be loving, though outwardly
they are cold."

Ah," PauUne hung her head, " I
see you think I am a fond, exacting little
creature, always teasing for affection;
but indeed, indeed, you are wrong. I
have tried to bear this change in him

in silence, till my heart can no longer
rest."

Have you no mother, who  " then
checking herself, Jeanne said, '' No, you
are right. I believe it is better for your
husband's sake to tell your trouble
to a stranger ; but what you have
told me makes me feel hardly towards
him."

"Then you must not; he is so good, so
faithful, so very kind. If I were only wise
and knew how to manage him he would
love me, and I believe you can help me to
be what he wants. When you have seen
us together it will be easier for you to
advise  " this was in answer to Jeanne's
look of perplexity; 'but you can tell me
this : Should I leave him alone when he
is silent and dull, or should I try to rouse
him ?"

It seems to me impossible," said
Jeanne, '' that I, who am so young
and inexperienced in such a matter, can

advise you. Surely you must be the
best judge how to deal with your own
husband."

Pauline's hands trembled with vexation.


"I tell you I have tried all sorts of
ways to please him," she said, " and all
fail, and now I have grown so nervous
that I always say and do wrong thugs.
You can at least say what you would do
yourself."

Jeanne stood musing. Just then the
clouds cleared, and the sun shone out once
more. She felt that she ought to go back
to Monsieur Eugene.

I think" she said slowly, " I should
just simply be myself, and leave the
rest to God ; it may be a trial sent
to you to bear as well as you can ; but
it must be very hard to bear, dear."
She took Pauline's hand and kissed her.
'* I must go now," she said, " I hope I shall
be able to come on Saturday. Shall I come

to the Hospice at two o'clock? for I live
some way from Dinant. I will say au
revoir, not goodbye."

Pauline was crying so much that
she could only whisper her thanks and
let Jeanne go away alone, and as the
girl went out into the bright sunshine
her heart ached for the poor little
woman. Oh, how petty her own trial
in these months of separation from
Edmund seemed compared with that of
this unloved wife !

CHAPTER IV.

TROUBLED.

"pAULINE was ashamed to let her red
-*- eyes be seen by Sister Sophie.

She will think it was all fear of the
thunder," she said to herself; and long
after Jeanne left her she sat by the open
window, hoping that the fresh air would
remove the tell-tale traces of her agitation.
She felt relieved  happier even.
She could scarcely tell why, for the only
advice her new friend had offered seemed
to Pauline useless.

She does not understand," she said,
sadly. " People always judge by themselves

when they advise, and I am quite
different from her. 1 have no special self.
I have all my life been trying to be what
other people wished me to be. I don't
know what my own self is." She smiled,
but she still looked miserable. *' I suppose
I am like the creature Edmund and
his cousin were talking about, which turns
the colour of that which comes near
it. No, I can only try to please Edmund,
and I suppose this will go on till I
die."

And yet she felt a new hope under her
despondency. Perhaps it was the near
prospect of Jeanne's visit ; perhaps it
was the mere relief of having poured
out her pent up sorrow; but when at
last she went away, she smiled cheerfully
at Sister Sophie, and laughed at
the remembrance of her own fears of the
storm.

I will behave better next time," she
said, kissing Sister Sophie on both

cheeks. '* Au revoir till Saturday, my
sister."

Pauline looked up at the sky ; how-late
it was ! The clouds had cleared
away, and the sun was setting behind
the grey crags, leaving a flood of rose
colour over the grey-green river.
Edmund would be coming back from
Anseremme, unless he was staying to
study the sunset. A sudden pang seized
Pauline. Suppose he had reached home
already, while she had sat thinking only
of herself !

She hurried forward, forgetting that
she had dreaded the meeting with her
husband, for Edmund's coldness during
these last days had been more than
she could bear, and this morning she had
asked him if he were vexed with her.
She had not ventured to do this since the
day at Rimayy, when her appeal had made
him speak so angrily. This morning he
had not been angry, he had been worse

than angry Pauline thought; he had
shrugged his shoulders, and said, " No,
but I shall be angry if you talk such
nonsense," and then he had snatched up
his hat, and had gone out without even
a nod of good-bye.

Pauline had spent her morning in
feeling wretched; and then, when
she reached the Hospice where she
usually found soothing and a change of
ideas, the thunder-storm had jangled her
unstrung nerves, and left her helpless.
But the memory of Jeanne came like a
screen between her and her morning
misery. The thought of her  so young
and yet so full of sympathy, and full also
of that outward calmness which seems
so sheltering to a weak, clinging nature 
healed Pauline's wounded spirit.

When she reached home Valerie was
standing at the door, chatting with a man
in a blouse who was chopping faggots
in the streets.

The master is not home yet." Valerie
stood aside for her mistress to pass ; slave
had no intention of leaving her gossip till
it was ended at this leisurely time of day.
Madame has been caught in the storm,
she is very late, however  very late," she
added, in a reproving tone, as Pauline
came into the passage.

Some of Pauline's weakness came from
her having been over-drilled ; she had been
a mere creature of the routine of others,
and Edmund was often wearied by her
questions as to how she should employ
her time in his absence. Perhaps nothing
is so useful when one has lived in a groove
as to be flung out of it. Pauline had
always come in at the same hour, and now
she found herself out beyond the time of
Edmund's return  beyond the usual supper
hour. Why should she not go and
meet Edmund ?  and then came the usual
thought, would he like it ? But to-day,
instead of standing perplexed, half-crying

in fretful, feverish doubt as to whether
he would think it right, her thoughts went
back to Jeanne's words, to the advice
which at the time had sounded so impracticable
 " ' I should be myself,' Yes,
she is right," Pauline said ; and then
after a minute's pause on the landing, she
came downstairs again, and started on the
way to Anseremme.

The rose tint was fading, and a pale
yellow mingled with the grey water; the
cliffs were a deep, dark grey, and against
the trees that were now massed in a
uniform olive tint, the fast dying light
gave an almost weird tone to the hue
of the river as it swept away in a broad
curve from the bridge where the Lesse
joined it. But long before Pauline reached
the bridge or the tall, dark rocks that
guard the road and make a grim portal to
this outlet from Dinant, she saw her
husband coming towards her. He was
walking slowly, and she saw that he

seemed laden ; be often left his easel
and his canvas at Anseremme, but to-day
he was carrying both. She forgot to be
shy in her impulse to help him, and she
hurried forward with sparkling eyes, and
with a glow on her cheeks.

You here !" Edmund said, in a surprised
voice. '' No, no, these are too
heavy for you. You may take the campstool
if you like. Why did you come ?"
he added.

Pauline felt nervous again ; but she was
eager to tell her story.

I must tell you I have had an
adventure," she said. '' I came home
only a short time ago. I was at the
Hospice during the thunder storm.
You were not out in it, were you,
darling ?" She felt the coat-sleeve nearest
her.

"No," he said, kindly; "I took my
picture into shelter, so I escaped the rain ;
but I hoped, little one, you would not have

VOL. HI. B

gone out when the sky looked so threatening
; and thunder frightens you, I
know."

PauUne's heart seemed to leap with
joy. He did think of her then, and care
for her safety; she felt very happy.
Formerly she would have thanked him
effusively, but now she checked herself.


'' Yes, dear," she said, " I was very
much frightened ; indeed, I do not
know how I could have borne it much
longer; but Jeanne was with me and
did me good."

Edmund started, but he turned away
his face.

*' Who was with you?" His sharp tone
frightened her. 'whom are you talking
about?" he said, irritably.

My new friend whom I meet at the
Hospice ; I have spoken to you of her ;
Mademoiselle de Matagne."

'' But you called her  something else."

He could not say the word Jeanne to his
wife, but he waited in intense suspense for
her answer.

Yes, she is Jeanne. Do you not remember
I told you about her ? I said she
was just the woman you would admire
tall and full of dignity, so quiet, and
her face so pale and noble, and yet with
such loving brown eyes. What is it,
darling?" she cried, in alarm, for it
seemed to her that Edmund gasped
and shivered as if he felt sudden
pain.

' Nothing, nothing  only one of these
foolish stones hurt my foot."

Pauline was too full of her story to be
very observing.

Well, do you know  you will hardly
believe it  but she really cares for me,
and she is coming to see us on Saturday."
She waited, but he did not speak. " Well,
what do you say ? You said I might ask
her, Edmund."

E 2

Library

There was a fretful sound in her voice
that roused him. He turned round and
looked at Pauline. Good Heavens ! what
a fool he was to dream of such a chance !
Was it likely or possible that anything
so fortuitous could possibly happen as a
friendship between his wife and Jeanne
Lahaye ? Why, Jeanne was as common a
name as could be met with ; and how
could he trust to Pauline's description
?

But his wife's appealing eyes told him
she must be answered.

"Yes, of course, why should she not
come ? it will be less lonely for you if she
comes and sits with you."

'' Ah, but I want you to see her," and
yet as she said the words a keen pang of
jealousy stirred in Pauline. Suppose
Jeanne was really a woman that Edmund
would admire, was she quite wise in
bringing them together; just now, when

lier own hold over her husband seemed
to have slackened ?

That must be as it happens ; " he
spoke carelessly, but he felt sure that he
should not try to see this new friend of his
wife's.

Pauline was as happy as a bird. edmund
was not displeased, and she felt sure
that when he did see Jeanne he would like
her ; and meantime  ah, meantime  her
new friend would teach her all she wanted
to know, and she would begin life over
again. She prattled on as she walked
beside Edmund, without noticing his
utter silence, till they reached the
beginning of the street.

'' I am going in here " he said  they
were passing a saddler's  " to get my
camp-stool mended. 1 will be in by the
time supper is ready."

Valerie was still at the door, and she
noted the change in her mistress's face.
She had been lately in trouble about

Pauline ; now she supposed Monsieur
Depuis had been pleased because his wife
went to meet him.

'' She spoiled him to begin with," the
sharp-eyed servant said, ' and now he's got
tired of it." However, she decided that
they had " made it up " this evening, or
Madame Depuis would not have looked so
gay or run upstairs so lightly.

She and Madamoiselle Elise do not
have so much to say to one another as
they had," Valerie thought, and the idea
was pleasant. She could not make Yi-
done's housekeeper out, and it seemed to
her that Mademoiselle was hardly good
enough company for her young lady, as
she still called Pauline.

But Pauline's gaiety was soon checked ;
Edmund was silent all supper-time. As
soon as the meal was over, and he had ht
his cigar, he took up a book which lay
on Pauline's work-table, and began to
read.

She felt chilled and disappointed, but
she strove hard against the fretfulness
which had so often driven Edrnond away
from her when one of these silent fits
possessed him. She began to knit, glancing
every now and then at her husband
to see if his eyes were fixed on his
book.

By degrees her thoughts strayed to her
new friend. She went over all that
Jeanne had said to her, and then all that
she had gleaned from Sister Sophie about
her other " angel," as the Sister called
her. It was a delicious reverie, with hope
at the end of it; for might she not now
count on frequent meetings with her
friend ? All at once her thoughts broke
into words.

Is it not strange, Edmund, dearest,
how names suit people? There is your
cousin at Namur, he must be a Jules ; he
could not be anyone else; and my Jeanne
is quite like her name, she looks like a

heroine  like Jeanne d'Albret  a woman
made to rule others."

Edmund moved uneasily. He had made
an excuse for leaving his wife at the
saddler's to escape hearing this name repeated
; he longed to rush away and walk
for miles, so that he might try to quiet the
tumult Pauline's talk had raised, but he
could not do this. He had been so
particular in his directions about the
mending of his camp-stool that the good
Dinantais Monsieur Freer smiled and
thought Monsieur Depuis was making
a great fuss about nothing. Through
supper Edmund had felt too irritable
to talk, and now he had not been reading,
as Pauline thought ; he had been
schooling himself for having allowed
an absurd, an unreal fancy to take hold
of his mind, the fancy that this
might be Jeanne. It showed that
he was in a morbid state, and that his
cousin was right when he said he wanted

a thorough change. Why should he not
take Pauline to Italy ? One of his fellow-artists
at Anseremme was going to winter
in Rome for the sake of study, and his
mother was to accompany him. It would
not be dull for Pauline ; he could leave
her with this lady while he visited Florence
and other artist haunts, and he should be
free. Free  his heart seemed to feel light
at the prospect. Somehow it had seemed
to him lately that away from Pauline he
might indulge in thoughts which beside
her were unlawful. He took his cigar
from his mouth and closed his eyes, while
he gazed at the pictures that rose before
him. He saw himself travelling alone,
with no one to consider ; free to go and
free to stay where he pleased, enjoying
undreamed of beauties of art and nature ;
for it would be possible, he thought, to
stay in Italy till summer time. Just
then Pauline's words roused hiui, but he
only heard distinctly the word Jeanne.

"Eh, what do you say? I beg your
pardon," and be looked as if he had just
wakened.

She repeated her sentence.

Well," he said, smiling, " everyone
to his taste. I do not admire female
rulers. 1 suppose other men do not
either ; you generally find that strong-minded
women are left single, little
one."

Pauline rested her 'cheek in one little
hand.

"I suppose I have not described her well,"
she said, pensively ; *' but I am sure my
Jeanne is just the woman a man would like
to marry. She is strong  yes, but it seems
to be more to help others than to rule them.
My idea of a strong-minded woman is more
like  " she dropped her voice to a whisper
'' Mademoiselle Elise, you know. Now
my Jeanne's soft, sweet brown eyes could
never look fierce, and she has lovely
wavy gold brown hair. Oh, if she did

not look so clever she would do for a
Madonna !"

Edmund started, and then let his
cio:ar fall. Bv the time he had
picked it up he was able to answer
Pauline.

'you must never judge by the
outside, you silly child ; why, it is supposed
that the most wicked heroine in
Shakespeare had fair hair and blue eyes."
He looked at his watch. " Do you know
that it is very late? you will destroy your
eyes if you sit knitting at this time of
night."

Yes, Edmund dear," she said meekly,
I am going to bed."

CHAPTER V.

A MEETING.

'TO Jeanne's real, simple nature, early
-*- trained by the rebuffs of Madame
Delimoy to subdue an outward show of
feeling, Pauline's passionate outburst had
seemed like acting. Such utter self-betrayal
had evoked no real sympathy
from Jeanne, though it had moved her to
a warm pity for this poor, helpless woman.
But now relieved from the shy restraint
which such an attack on her reserve
had created, Jeanne's deep tenderness
asserted itself; and she was full of self-reproach.


"Dear little thing," she said, '* how
lovingly and unselfishly she spoke of her
husband ! It is all for his sake, and he
must be worthless, or he would love such a
pretty, dainty creature; she is like a bit of
rare china, and yet so animated, not like
some dolls of pretty women I have seen. It
was like my gaucherie'' she laughed at herself,
'sto be cold and stiff; because I could
not have behaved in such a way myself
I almost fancied it wrong, or at least
strange, in her. If I can only help her how
glad I shall be ! I can at least pray for
her."

Pauline would have been gladdened if
she had seen the love for her that shone in
Jeanne's eyes ; but she was soon to be
banished from her new friend's thoughts.
For sadness greeted Jeanne when she
reached home. The storm had brought
on a convulsive nervous attack, and Monsieur
Eugene was still so ill that the doctor
had not left him.

Presently the doctor came out of the
sick-room. He soothed Jeanne's alarm by
telling her there was no danger, only that
Monsieur Eugene must be kept very quiet,
and he must not travel as soon as he had
intended ; he also wished him to try a
course of the mineral baths on the other
side of the river.

Jeanne asked if she should summon Monsieur
Raoul. It was a great relief to hear
that there was no occasion for this.

Monsieur must not be excited in anyway,"
said the little doctor ; '' only keep
him quiet, and he will do ; for the rest, let
him lead his usual life as if nothing had
happened."

 Jeanne was glad to escape Monsieur
Raoul's visit ; she was glad too that they
were to stay on in this pleasant place ;
but still she was anxious about her dear
old friend. She found him looking pale
and exhausted, but he was eager to know
how she escaped the thunderstorm. He

grew interested in hearing about Pauline,
and his old fear that Jeanne must find life
dull showed itself.

1 ara glad you have found a friend of
your own sex. You must go and see this
lady often, my child. She is better
company for you than a poor old invalid."


Jeanne shook her head at him. " No,
no, uncle," she said, ''I am never
dull."

But on Friday, when he drove into Dinant
to begin his course of baths, he insisted
that she should go with him, and call on
her new friend.

'' I do not know where to find her,"
said Jeanne. He was sorry, but he
said that she must amuse herself in
the little town till it was time for hiui to
return.

There are some public gardens,"
he said ; " the doctor has told me
about them, and he says from them

you can climb to the cliff above the
town."

Jeanne nodded and smiled, but it occurred
to her that, if she had to spend
some hours in waiting, she should not
employ them in mounting the cliff. She
had never lived in a town since her childhood,
and the shop-windows of Disant
had looked very tempting in her hurried
visit, for except when she came to church
she had only once crossed the bridge
since they had come to live at the
Chateau.

She resolved to do some shopping, and
she hoped that, by studying the shop-windows,
she might learn a little of the
mysteries of fashion ; for simple as Jeanne
was she thought she would like to dress as
much like other women as possible by the
time she met Edmund Depuis, and she
might meet him any day if he still lived
near Namur. Her heart beat quickly,
and time flew by rapidly while she stood

gazing, dreaming of coming happiness.
At last she went into a draper's shop,
and made her purchases ; but still she
had an hour to wait. She wished she
knew where Madame Pauline lived, so
that she could have gone to see her.
Perhaps it would please Monsieur
Eugene if she went into the Public
Gardens. To go there she must pass
the photograph shop, and Jeanne could
not help lingering here to see if there
were any fresh views in the window.
But she turned away when she saw
looking through the glass-door within the
dark face of the tall woman who had sold
her the view of the cottage beside the
Meuse.

'* Surely," she thought, " I have seen
her before ;" and she felt a repulsion
from this remarkable-looking woman.

All at once there came to her a strange
thrill of expectancy, and she looked up, the

VOfi. 111. F

uncertainty of the present faded away,
and the joy of her past youth flooded
over her, dazzling her with its radiance
for there was Edmund coming towards
her.

He did not see her ; his eyes were cast
down ; but Jeanne did not wait for his
recognition. Long ago she had told herself
she owed him an atonement. A
warm flush spread over her face as she
went forward.

At last," she said, and she put her
hand gently on his arm.

He saw her and drew back; he grew
white as if he were going to faint.

I was too sudden," Jeanne's voice
faltered. " I have startled you."

And then her sweet brown eyes met his,
and he saw how full they were of ardent
love for him. He clasped her hands in his
for an instant, passionately  then he recollected
himself.

We cannot talk in the middle of the

street." His lips quivered with agitation.
Come down here."

Just beyond the photograph shop a
little alley, with high blank walls on
each side, vine sprays falling over here
and there, went down to the river.
Jeanne followed him, feeling as if
she scarcely trod on earth. She was ina
dream of ecstasy.

Edmund went on till the lane turned,
so that they could not be seen from the
street they had quitted. Then, before
she could speak, he began vehemently.

Jeanne, it is not my fault ; it is you
who have done it all. Why did you give
me up ? Why did you not at least answer
my letter  my God, it is too hard to bear
this."

He had let go her hands as he turned
into the little alley, but now he snatched
at them feverishly, and stood gazing at her
with the miserable yearning with which a
man might gaze on a dying, well-loved

F 2

wife. And then, as he looked into her
pure, noble face, and saw the ineffable
tenderness that longed to comfort the grief
she saw in his, a calm stole upon him ;
for one brief moment Jeanne's sway over
his nature so mastered him that it seemed
as if even out of this depth of darkness
she could lift them both into light.

Jeanne did not draw her hands away;
but Edmund was too absorbed to heed
this.

I was wrong, I know, Edmund," the
girl said, " and I have so longed to tell
you. I had to obey grandmother, but I
ought to have thought more of you  forgive
me ; 1 have been punished  and now
it is over." She gave him one of the
half shy, half arch glances from under
her downcast lashes that had once been
his dear delight. Ah, how well he
remembered, and how each familiar tone
and gesture roused him almost to
madness !

But he could not speak, he only held
her hands and gazed feverishly in her
face.

Edmund" she said timidly, I believe,
when I wrote that letter for grandmother,
I thought you would come tome
for another answer."

*' Another answer to my letter to you," he
burst out. " Oh, Jeanne, this is coquetry ;
this is worse than I thought. What
more could I say ? I had poured out my
soul in words that I almost feared might
frighten you. I told you I could not live
without you ; that on you depended all
my hopes, and without you I must go to
ruin ; and you could coldly wait the
chance of my coming to repeat all this at
your feet. Cold, selfish girl ! "

She pressed the hands that still held
hers, and his wandering, despairing eyes
fixed again on her face.

*' Cold !" that was all she said.

The word seemed fluno back at him

BESIDE THE River.

by those glowing, love-fraught eyes 
by the panting breath that came quickly
through those parted, trembling lips.

You wrote  I had no letter, Edmund,"
at last the words broke forth in a despairing
cry ; *' you wrote to grandmother,
not to me. Ah, you did write then ?"
as he bowed his head she looked at
him with tender eyes, then drawing her
hands away, she clasped them fondly
round his arm,  '' my poor Edmund,
how you have been made to suffer !
Hush ! she is dead, and she thought it
was for my good."

She stopped, for the misery in his
eyes startled her. She began to rouse
to a consciousness that something was
amiss, something she did not understand,
and, letting her hands fall, she
drew timidly a little more away from
her lover. '' But all our unhappiness
is over now," she said, with a sigh of
relief.

Yes, you are right ; all is over with
us' he said, gloomily.

Jeanne flushed. Did he mean that she
had offended past forgiveness ? But she
loved him too dearly to let him go away
in anger.

I cannot tell you what I feel," she
said. *' All these months, I must have
seemed so ungrateful  so wicked ; but
you will forgive me now, dear Edmund,
when you know that I never had that
precious letter."

He stood looking at her with despair in
his eyes.

Edmund," her voice trembled, you
cannot be really angry with me ; all
this time I have been longing  hoping
to see you. I  T  " she grew rosy red
again and her eyes drooped  " I have
never left off loving you, and I told
Mademoiselle de Matagne that if ever
you wanted me I must leave her, for
I had vowed to myself to be yours only."

BESIDE THE EIVEE.

Are you mad ?" he broke in, hoarsely,
*' or do you want me to be mad ? You know-that
I am bound  separated from you far
more than by absence."

Then the terrible change in her face
alarmed him ; for Jeanne looked like a
statue. A grey shade had stolen over
her face ; a film came over the brightness
of her eyes, and her arms fell
down straight on each side of the tall,
still body.

Her tongue was fixed too, and her dry
lips opened widely. Horror had come to
her, the foreshadowing of that which she
felt she was going to hear. In an instant
he had come close to her, his arm
was round her, for he feared she would
fall, but Jeanne dared not let herself
lean against him, the horror held her
still.

Oh, my darling !" and for the first
time Jeanne heard the same accent in
the voice that had wooed her beside the

river, " what is it ? what has frightened
you, my Jeanne ?"

A great temptation swept over Edmund.
She did not know, and why should he tell
her ? why should he kill this one joy
which had burst into his miserable life ?
why should he destroy her new-found
happiness ? She must know afterwards,
but who could grudge them these few
minutes of bliss ? why should he not have
the ecstasy of hearing Her love from her
own lips ?

She drew herself from him very slowly
and sadly.

''Do not be cruel," she said, simply;
did you mean what you said just now ?
are you promised to some one else, edmund
?" For she had not yet guessed his
marriage.

His face grew dark, he would not
meet her eyes. Again he tried to take
her hands, but Jeanne drew still farther
away.

Yon are cold and cruel, Jeanne," he
said. '' T have never loved anyone but
you ;" but her eyes were fixed on his, as if
she would compel the truth. "A marriage
without love is no marriage," he said ; the
words were forced out of him against his
will.

Jeanne shivered from head to foot.

You are married."

There was no question in her voice,
the words sounded more like an accusation.


For, indeed, Jeanne could hardly believe
that this idol of her dreams, this man to
whom she still clung with such passionate
tenderness, could have so soon forgotten
her for another woman.

Did I not tell you you had made our
misery ? but you must listen to me,
Jeanne."

I cannot, I ought not to have listened
so long  all is indeed over between us.
Let me pass," she added sternly, for he

tried to stop her  and turning away,
she hastened up the alley into the busy
street.

She went on fast to the public gardens ;
she had met Elise Herkenne face to face
as she came out of the alley, but she
did not see her; nor did she see that the
tall dark woman went slowly a few steps
down it, stopped, and then walked on to
where Edmund Depuis was standing.

CHAPTER VI.

edmund's resolution.

Mademoiselle HERKENNE had
- that perfect manner of walking only
to be seen in a tall and well-made woman ;
with her head well poised, her whole
body moving in concert, her well-gloved
hand gathering her skirt into graceful
drapery, she went swiftly down the
steep alley. She came opposite Edmund
Depuis before he had recovered from
the confusion in which Jeanne had left
him.

The sight of Elise roused him to alarm,
though not to full recollection. She

smiled and passed him with a slight nod.
Edmund looked after her, and sighed with
a sense of reef. He had been on the
point of asking her not to tell Pauline of
his meeting with Jeanne Lahaye if she
had not passed so swiftly.

Good Heavens ! was he losing his
senses ? Probably she had not seen the
meeting, and how could Mademoiselle Her-kennel
know anything about Jeanne, and
what could she have seen to create
remark ? Nothing.

He forgot that he had come back from
Anseremme to inquire for his camp-stool ;
his mind was in a whirl ; he went up into
the town, and then, crossing the Place,
took his way beside the Meuse towards
the Httle village of Left.

His head was burning, and he longed
to bathe it in the cool water flowing beside
him ; bnt this was impossible, and
when he reached the tall red chimney,
which mars the view in this direction, he

turned mechanically to the right, and took
the road that led into the valley of the
Left.

It was quiet enough here; there was
nothing to keep away the terrible
thoughts which distracted him.

Jeanne's parting look had torn a veil
from his sight, had shown him the brink
on which he had stood. What was he?
A perjured traitor, faithless to these two
women who both loved him so fondly.
He shrank from even naming them together.
He had not sinned against
PauHne, she the generous part of edmund's
nature shrank from owning it, but
still it remained as a fact which he strove
not to remember  she had wooed him.
He had not promised her his love, only
his liking; and he had fulfilled his
bargain, he was blameless towards
her.

She must have known that if my
heart had been free I should not have

said that," he thought, angrily. *' She is
not, therefore, wronged if I find my love
more than I can resist."

Yes, he had a right to despise Pauline 
and mentally he smothered her image with
the fumes of his anger, while his thoughts
flew back to Jeanne. But Jeanne's face,
her smile, the love he had seen in those
true sweet eyes, brought him to chaos
again  his reason seemed to be leaving
him.

He had got beyond the straggling
houses nestled under the crags that overhung
the Fonds de Left, and he flung
himself face downwards on a bank beside
the road.

Amid all the bitter longing of these
months, there had been the conviction
that Jeanne could not reproach him ;
she had cast him off*, and she had
scorned too his passionate confession of
love.

Father Hallez had shaken his belief

in the girl's coldness, and had made
him shrink from Pauline as he had
never shrunk before. In these last days
his eyes had seemed to open afresh
to her silliness, to her weak, teazing
anxiety to conform to his wishes ; even
the pretty smiling face that had once
pleased his fancy had irritated him ;
he had told himself he hated prettiness.
Pauline had guessed truly, though not
fully, how impossible it was for her husband
to love her. And now all doubt
was rent away  Jeanne had always loved
him.

He lay face downwards, for some time

immovable and then a deep groan

burst from him.

Oh, God !" he said, " hell cannot be
worse than this !"

He rose up and walked on deeper into
the valley, trying to flee from his agony,
for he felt tortured. To hear her love
spoken by Jeanne, and to feel like Tantalus,

SO near, and yet so powerless to possess

it He walked on rapidly, he

made no effort to calm or subdue the
torrent that was pouring in upon his
soul  breaking down all the old bulwarks
of early training and habits of
thought.

Jeanne had been faultless then, for
the letter she wrote had plainly been
against her will, and she had never read
his loving words. She had loved him
all this time  while he had been, as he
thought, wasting love on an idea  she
had been waiting, longing, for his
presence. And now ! what a traitor
he must be in her eyes ! She knew
nothing, but the fact of his marriage,
none of the excuse for it, and he had
been fool enough to let her go away
without explanation. He had not even

said, " I do not love my wife " his

conduct to Jeanne must have seemed to
her an insult.

VOL. III. G

His pace slackened at last, he had exhausted
himself; hitherto he had hurried
on unconscious of surroundings ; now
his attention was roused by something that
was happening in the road before him,
and he almost mechanically stopped.
A mountain ash grew on the cliff-side,
and a boy about eight years
old had clambered up the steep rock,
and, clinging to the stem of the ashe
was struggling to break off bunches
of its rich orange fruit. Below stood
a little delicate girl, her fair curly head
thrown back, her eyes bright with
expectation, holding up her brown apron
with both hands.

Stand nearer, Berthe, foolish that you
are," the boy called from the tree ; " if
they are not caught they will be bruised,
and I shall not care to have them ; do you
hear, Berthe ?"

She gave him such a loving look.

"I will try, yes, yes, I will try;" and

just then, as she rushed forward a heavy
bunch of berries struck her on the
face.

She did not cry out, but when Edmund
went up to her he heard a little choked
sob of pain, and tears streamed from her
eyes.

You are hurt," he said ; ** let go your
apron ; he must wait."

"Ah  bah!" said the boy, "it is her
fault for being so awkward," and he came
down sulkily from the tree.

Little brute," Edmund thought, as he
saw that Berthe still held fast her apron
with some berries in it.

After a few steps he looked back. The
boy's arms were round the girl, and he
was wiping her eyes with her apron,
while the berries lay unheeded in the
road.

Edmund turned back again, and
smiled as he passed the children ; the
little scene had quieted him, and cong

2

science got a chance of being listened
to.

Was it not best to have parted with
Jeanne thus hastily  would it not be safer
for himself, kinder to Jeanne if he never
saw her again? For the time his good
angel triumphed. He told himself that
life could not last for ever, and that he
would try to live it patiently with Pauline.
It would be misery, but it would be an
atonement to Jeanne for his faithlessness.


He walked on, his head erect now, for
he felt himself a sort of martyr ; his self-reproach
was appeased. He resolved to go
home, and be kinder to his wife than he had
been since that fatal day at Rimayy. Perhaps
something in the quiet endurance of little
Berthe in the valley had touched his heart,
and made him more pitiful towards his
wife. Certainly he was strong in good
intentions when he reached the street
leading to his home.

As he went in he saw through the glass
door that Pauline was talking eagerly to
Mademoiselle Herkenne. The sight jarred
him ; he had told his wife that if she
wished to talk to her former governess, she
must ask her to come upstairs, as he did
not choose his wife to be seen in the shop
by the constant customers of the photographer;
for, although Yidonze had made
no portraits at Dinant, the beautiful views
he had taken in the neighbourhood and
throughout the Ardennes had found ready
purchasers.

Before he had reached the landing,
Pauline came hurrying after him.

"How nice of you to come home so
early !" she said ; then, conscious that she
had been doing what he did not like, she
came timidly up to him. " I met Else
in the street and I just went in to finish
our talk; I was telling her about my
friend, dearest; and what do you think
she says ?"

"How can I tell!" He flung himself
into a chair, but he looked strangely
troubled.

She says," Pauline went on, " that
she is sure Jeanne will not come home
with me tomorrow. She says too that she
has seen her."

'* Where did she see ? Here ?" He spoke
quickly, and Pauline looked surprised.

'' She has bought photographs here ;
but it is unkind of Elise to say that she
will not come home with me. You think
Jeanne will come, do you not, darling?"

She stood close to him, looking
down into his face as if she were waiting
for her sentence. But Edmund left
it to fate and to Jeanne to answer Pauline.

How can I tell ? wait till tomorrow
comes," he said. '* There is a concert
to-night at the Casino, shall we go there ?"

She clapped her hands with delight.

Oh yes  How kind of you ! I have
been so wishing to go. Which

gown would you like me to wear,
dearest ?"

"Whichever you please my friend."
But he did not say it in the cold, dull
tone which had so often made her heartache.
He told himself that he had to
bear with her, and that it would be better
in every way to do it well than badly.

Later on in the evening, as he strolled
about with Pauline listening to the
music which sounded so sweet among
the trees of the gardens, lights twinkling
here and there through the leaves, he
began to wonder about this tomorrow
to which his wife looked forward so
ardently. Would Jeanne come in
ignorance, or would she guess that
Pauline was his wife ? for he was sure
that Pauline's friend was Jeanne Lahaye.
He felt sure also that she would never
run the risk of meeting him in the
presence of Pauline.

Then, as he anticipated the disappointment

in store for the foolish, fond little
woman, he felt utterly weary  he should
have to go through her regrets with
her, to seem unconscious all the
while, and to affect to share her vexation.

Heaven knows," he thought, "that will
not be new to me. I do not think I have
ever really felt spontaneously with Pauline
since we have been married; it has never
occurred to me to care for her opinion or
to try to share it. I suppose this is because
she has cared so much for mine, poor little
creature."

Just now he was painfully sensible of
this want of sympathy. Pauline was as
gay as possible, admiring everything,
talking even while the music went on
while her husband's heart grew heavier,
and his outlook on life seemed more
dreary than ever. It was a relief to him
when they got home to hear Pauline say
that she was tired, and that she should
go to bed at once.

Edmund went into the sitting-room and
sat there in darkness. He did not smoke,
he felt too miserable even for that solace. He
had done his duty, and what was the result?
he was even more miserable than he had
been in Fonds de Left. There was no
sound in the street below to disturb his
thoughts, everyone had gone to bed, even
at the cafe opposite the lights were all
put out -and only the glimmer of the infrequent
street-lamps came fitfully into the
room.

He had sat thus a long time without
moving, without consciously thinking  not
sleeping, yet so exhausted in body and
mind that he felt no power of moving; all
at once the dull apathy lifted.

If he must lead this life, submit patiently
to this fate that had overtaken him, at
least he need not live under the weight of
Jeanne's contempt ; he would do himself
justice in her eyes. He must see her
attain and tell her the truth about ibis

marriage ; tell her that as in marrying he
had reserved to himself the right to love,
he might go on loving her ; bat he would
be calm in saying all this, there should
not be a word or a look that could
trouble her pure soul or alarm her into
flight.

He reddened with shame as he remembered
his ungoverned passion today,
and he felt that Jeanne too would
remember it, and would shrink from
meeting him again. But it must be,
he must see her, and his sanguine nature
once more asserted itself. Jeanne
would not refuse him a last farewell,
if he asked it of her. She was too
large-hearted, too generous, to shrink
from it because it would be painful to
herself.

I will see her once more; there is
strength in her very presence ; it will be
agony to part again, and yet there is joy
even in this agony."

CHAPTER VII.

IN Revolt.

IVrO one seeing Jeanne cross the street
 would have guessed that the blossom
of her life had just been rudely severed
from the stalk, and left to wither. Outwardly
she was quiet and self-restrained,
and while they were driving home she
listened to Monsieur Eugene's account of
the invigorating effects of his bath
with attentive interest. But before his
account was ended, the invalid's sympathetic
eyes had noted her extreme
paleness.

You are tired, my Jeanne. I will go

alone next time, or else you must not wait
for me. The doctor says I am to take
the baths twice a week."

Jeanne's attention had wandered.

"Uncle," she said earnestly, 'need
we stay here much longer? do you not
think we must be wanted at Chateau
Montcour ? it is so very long since we left
it."

Monsieur Eugene was surprised, almost
vexed.

But, my child, do you not understand
the doctor has said, * if the baths suit, you
must give them a chance ; take a dozen,
or twenty.' Why, Jeanne," he said, fretfully,
" you know you said how much
better it would be to wait until I grew
stronger before! went back to Montcour."

Jeanne looked at him dreamily ; how
long ago it seemed since she had said
these words ! Was she really the same
Jeanne, in the same life in which she had
said only this morning she felt so glad

to stay longer at Dinant ? She forgot
all about her new friendship ; all feeling
had been paralysed by the one fact that
had suddenly come into her life.

Yes," she said, answering Monsieur
Eugene; ''oh yes, I remember."

She was glad that he left off talking ; so
glad when the carriage stopped before the
entrance door, and she was free to go to
her own room.

She took off her bonnet, and then sat
down. She was very tired, mentally and
bodily. She had no more fight to make ;
sorrow might have its turn now.

Married," she said, and the word
seemed to wring her heart. '* Oh, my
Edmund, must I leave off loving you !"

Tears would not come; the full heartfelt
like stone. Not even a sob escaped
her. She sat quite still. Once again
she said, *' My Edmund," with intense

tenderness and then she sat silent,

her head drooped forward on her breast,

large tears falling down her cheeks. She
was crushed under the weight of her trial.
There was an added bitterness in it ; it
had been truly, as Edmund had said, her
own fault. She had written wrongly in refusing
to marry him, without at the same
time explaining the reason of her conduct.
Looking back across all these months, the
little reasons against this course then so
real, faded away, and she saw only how
lightly in seeming she had treated edmund's
love. She tried not to think harshly
of her grandmother, but, with all her dutifulness,
Jeanne was too upright not to abhor
the deceit and mistrust that had been
shown towards her. The next minute she
tried to make excuse.

She might have meant me to know it
later," she said ; " the last words she
spoke that night were to bid me put my
letter ready for the postman."

A sudden light had come to Jeanne.
She could no longer understand her own

silence after her grandmother died. If
she had written at once and told Edrnond
she was free, he would have come to her 
and then  Jeanne writhed as she thrust
the idea from her  the bUss that might
have been hers. She went over that sad
time, finding no excuse for her silence.
She could not blame Edrnond. He had
not been faithless to her. If he had been
faithless to his own heart, well, then, so
had she,

Love is not a dead thing," she said,
passionately ; it shows that it lives by acts.
How was it possible for him to know I
loved him when no one but I knew it ?"
But she stopped at this. Two persons,
both of whom she held in high reverence,
had known her secret, and yet neither of
them had advised her to write to her lover
Father Hallez and Mademoiselle de Matagne.
It was true that her friend on her
death-bed had said something to Jeanne of
her intention of seeking out Edmund. She

could not tell the girl that both she and
Monsieur Hallez had thought it singular and
ominous that Monsieur Depuis had not
come in search of Jeanne : for to neither
of them had it seemed possible that he
had not heard of the death of Madame
Delimoy.

But there was yet a most terrible side
to her anguish, she knew that it was
balm to her heart that he still loved her.
She tried to say to herself, it would have
been much better if he had cast away all
thought of her, and had given his full love
to his wife  she could not say this.

Jeanne rose to her feet in horror ; but
it was no use. She could not conquer the
longing for Edmund's love. There was
no use in telling herself she had refused
it ; it was no longer hers, and therefore it
was unlawful, sinful even, to covet it.

He loves me  well, I do not care,"
she said, passionately; " he will never
know it, nor that woman either  I will

love him too ; his love is mine. I am
not giving my thoughts up to a man
who loves some one else, that would be
base; but this  well, if this comforts me,
it hurts no one but me." She walked up
and down, up and down she could only
move, she could not think.

But, though the tumult lasted long
enough to leave deep marks of its presence,
at last the inevitable reaction came. It
was impossible that, trained as she had
been, first so piously by her mother and
the good convent sisters, and then to such
entire self-restraint as had been enforced
by the mere society of Madame Delimoy,
Jeanne should at once free herself from
the second nature which had become
habitual.

She sank down on her knees and
prayed, but though the effort brought
tears, it did not bring soothing. She felt
that religion, prayer, every good practice
of her life, had become burdensome

VOL. III. H

because each one set a barrier between her
and her love. She rose up suddenly.

"It is a mockery, I cannot do it; how
can I pray to God when my heart is full
of Edmund and the longing to be with
him ?"

Her wish for solitude had fled, and she
hurried downstairs to try to rid herself
of those faint yet importunate whispers
that kept on in a far-off phantom-like way
telling her she was wrong.

But she found no relief in change of
scene, life had lost all colour for Jeanne ;
the very strength which had helped her
courage in the patient waiting through
these months of suspense, now only served
to deepen the force of her love ; and
Jeanne had not known how she loved till,
face to face, she had confessed her love
to Edmund ; then the bud had developed,
opened itself into a rapidly expanding
flower, the glow had spread through every
nerve and fibre, and left the whole

woman, though she strove to hide it,
palpitating with love. There had been
time for this development before she
learned her doom ; and though the shock
had chilled her ecstasy, and had for the
time overwhelmed her, yet love lived on,
hungering for a fuller taste of the joy so
suddenly dashed away as soon as tasted.

When she came downstairs and sought
Monsieur Eugene, she found him dull and
absorbed ; even when she spoke to him he
seemed to be thinking of something else,
and answered at random. Yet, if she had
been less self-occupied, she would have
seen those timid blue eyes follow her as
she moved restlessly about, with a look
that would have puzzled her. It seemed
as if Monsieur Eugene wanted advice or
help from Jeanne, and that he was too
timid to ask it.

And truly he had a purpose he wished
to lay before her. His sensitive nature
felt the trouble in hers ; he thought in

H 2

his ignorance that, all unknown to herself,
Jeanne's life was suffering from her
enforced seclusion with him, and he
was trying to nerve himself to prevent
this.

But evening came, and yet he had not
found courage to speak; though Jeanne
stayed with him later than usual, for she
dreaded being left alone to face her
thoughts.

When she reached her room, for the
first time since her meeting with Edraond,
she remembered her promise to go home
with Pauline. It seemed to her impossible
to do this ; by going into Dinant she
would run the risk of seeing him again,
for her new friend had said that she lived
on the other side of the river.

I must meet her at the Hospice instead,"
she said ; she had not realised how
ardently her visit was desired by Pauline.
In Jeanne's over-wrought condition this
new acquaintance seemed so trifling,

she could scarcely give a thought to it.

She had dreaded the night but,
almost as soon as she lay down, sleep came
to her. At first heavy and stupor-like,
but after a while, troubled with distorted
dreams, from which she only wakened
partially, to believe with opened eyes that
her visions were true, and then to fall
asleep again, and rouse in feverish unrest.
Towards morning she again slept heavily,
and it was late when she awakened ; when
she came down she found Monsieur
Eugene in the garden. He was sitting on
a bench beside the river, reading his newspaper,
and when he saw Jeanne he held
her out a letter.

** Good day, my child, this is a new
correspondent, is it not ?" he glanced
with a sort of childish curiosity at the
address. *' Such a pretty, neat writing !"

'' Yes, it is unknown to me."

Jeanne sat down beside him. At first
she had felt sick, so sure did it seem that

the letter was from Edmund Dapuis, but
the hand-writing had quieted this fear ;
she opened it and read the first page.

My Dear Jeanne,
For I must call you Jeanne  you can
never be anything else to me  I have
been counting . the hours till Saturday,
and I am writing to ask you if you will
not mind staying till five, or later ; my
husband is away every day painting, and
he cannot be home till towards evening
as he must not give up any daylight
time. I so long for him and you to meet,
and if you think it too late to go home
after, my maid shall go with you ; only I
write because you said your uncle was
an invalid, and I thought he might be
nervous if you were late."  Here Jeanne
turned the page and read no more, for she
saw distinctly in much larger writing than
the rest, the signature,

Pauline Depuis'*

CHAPTER Viii.

FRUITLESS.

'nLISE HERKENNE was far more than
-*- perplexed. She had watched and
schemed all day, and now it was evening
and yet no light had come to help her;
not the slightest clue as to how she could
benefit by the discovery she had made.
For she had made a discovery, or rather
had seen that her suspicion was rightly
founded. As she stood watching Jeanne,
she saw her meet Edmund Depuis, and
then, as the girl turned to follow him down
the alley, Elise saw her face. The sight
was an intense relief. Elise clapped her

hands in vehement exultation, she could
have danced in the mad joy she felt.

She loves him, she loves him. I knew
it; I felt it. Oh, what joy !"

She wept passionately; she felt as a
prisoner feels when, after a lapse of months,
light and liberty are given him without
warning that they are so near. There was
no obstacle now between her and Vidonze,
for, she thought, he would not go on seeking
Jeanne if her love for another could be
proved. But how was this love to be made
known to Vidonze, without betraying the
presence of Jeanne in Dinant ?

For the present Erse crushed down
her passionate joy by her iron will. She
must make sure of what she had seen.
She had quickly put on her bonnet
and crept quietly down the alley, close
against the wall, so that she had remained
hidden when the lovers  as she called
them  had passed the bend, and then,
craning her long neck forward, shu had

heard, not all, but enough to assure her
she had not judged hastily. She crept
back again, and when Jeanne came up
the passage Erse noted her white face
and rigid manner ; then she went out to
look for Edmund. Mademoiselle Herkenne
smiled to herself when she had passed him.
He looked so struck with despair, almost
fit to destroy himself.

'' What a pair of fools they are !" she
said; '' with some women it might be
difficult, but not with such a baby as
PauUne. Why need they be so disturbed ?
Perhaps one can understand that the girl
is unhappy, but I should have thought
better of Edmund Depuis ; he married with
his eyes open."

And then she shrugged her shoulders.
No, she remembered now that Vidonze
had laughed about Edmund Depuis, and
had called him too soft; a man who
at Namur had gone to mass with his
wife sometimes; it was possible that

this priggishness might make Edmund
scrupulous about seeking Jeanne. Mademoiselle
Herkenne hated what she called
good people." Then before she had
half thought the puzzle out, Pauline
had met her, all eagerness to talk of her
new friend. This made a fresh item in
Elise's score against Jeanne Lahaje, for,
even besides the certainty her quick
wits gave her that Pauline's friend and
Jeanne were identical, the name De
Matagne settled all doubt; Yidonze had
specially mentioned it in his letter. Elise
did not care for Pauline's affection, she told
herself she had always despised it, and
yet she felt painfully jealous as she listened
to the little woman's praise of her new
friend. For a moment she was strongly
tempted to tell Pauline of the meeting
she had witnessed, and then she paused ;
such a revelation would probably end
the whole affair. Pauline would appeal
to Jeanne to spare her, and Edmund

would give up his old love. No, a far
better way would be to do all she could
to bring Edmund and Jeanne once more
together.

'' I know ; I know how it will be," she
said, forgetting all her previous theory
about Jeanne ; " she ran away from him
this morning, but that was the first time ;
she will get over that, and if she really
loves him she will have no peace till
she sees him again."

And when she saw Edmund take his wife
out that evening, she told herself matters
were going as she wished. She remembered
scornfully that her own false lover had
rarely been so kind to her as at their last
meeting, when he knew that he meant to
desert her.

'redmond Depuis has made up his
mind," she said ; '' he is not going to give
up Jeanne, and for that reason Pauline
will have no cause for complaint for sometime
to come."

But still sbe was troubled; she could
not see how all this would affect Antoine
YidoDze.

It was like a game of chess  every
move she contemplated involved a risk
which she knew was full of danger.
VidoDze's love would be increased tenfold
by the sight of Jeanne, and yet, unless he
saw Jeanne and Edmund together, how
could their love be proved to him ?

Of late she had in her own lofty way
pitied Pauline for her husband's evident
neglect ; but, in the keen interest she felt
in Edmund's success with Jeanne, she
lost all feeling of sympathy for the poor
little wife. She knew where Jeanne lived,
and she might tell Edmund; but there was
this danger ; if he did anything rash
Jeanne might take alarm, and go back to
her village; and Elise believed that Antoine
would soon hear of her return there. There
was one way, but that was beyond her
most sanguine hopes  for it involved a

complete change in her idea of Jeanne
Lahaye.

'' And yet," she scoffed, shockingly,
'' who is this milk-blooded saint that she
should be better than another ? She is
not made of marble ; her face told me
that this morning, and who can limit the
power of love ? She would not do it in
cold blood ; but if Edmund Depuis knew
how to win her  if he were a man like
Antoine  she would give up everything
for him. Bah ! what is love worth unless
it makes a sacrifice ? But after all what do
these over-righteous statues know about
love at all ?"

CHAPTER IX.

SUBDUED.

JEANNE, my child, what is it?" Mons
sieur Eugene laid his hand timidly
on the arm next him, as Jeanne sat beside,
him on the bench. She gave a start, and
then a little shuddering sigh, and turned
her white face towards him. " Is there
something unpleasant in the letter ?" he
said hesitatingly.

Jeanne smiled sadly as she put the letter
into his hand.

*' You can read it if you please."
Monsieur Eugene read it, and then
looked at her in genuine surprise.

I do not understand ; it is a very nice

letter. You will go this afternoon, and
Alexis shall order a carriage to bring
you home, my child."

I shall not go."

Her dry, decided manner astonished
Monsieur Eugene ; it was so unlike her. He
had been full of the request he wished to
make, but this seemed an unsuitable time
to speak of it.

'uncle," said Jeanne, abruptly, ''I will
come back presently. I am not quite
well."

There was a broad grass plot in front of
the bench, and between this and the railings
a slaty path which reached the house
and bounded each end of the grass plot.

Jeanne crossed to this path, and began
to walk up and down.

Pauline Depuis is Edmoud's wife  "
The words went on repeating themselves.
She had thought Pauline was perhaps
fanciful and morbid, and instead of this
she had been more than right in her fear,

though she had not really divined the secret
of her husband's coldness.

There was a struggle, and then Jeanne's
true nature asserted itself. At the cost
of whatever suffering she must cast her
love from her. She must learn to forget
Edmund. She sickened as she thought of
the pain before her; but Pauline's tears
helped her. How could she tell whether
in some mysterious way her love might
not influence Edmund's, and, if she persisted
in it, draw him more and more from
his wife ? Could she after seeing the
wife's anguish wish to keep any place in
the husband's love ? Jeanne's cheeks were
no longer pale  they were dyed deep with
shame. Till now this wife had been a
shadow, an obstacle between her and her
happiness, an insult to her pride ; but now
all this was over. Jeanne felt that she
could not willingly see Pauline again 
friendship between them was impossible 
but she did not hate her. She was Edmund's



wife, and he must learn to love her and to
make her happy. She could not say this
easily; a sharp pang cut through her
heart, and seemed to leave it bleeding,
while she even thought of tearing out the
love it had so cherished. But she must
act : there was not time for dreaming.

She went back to Monsieur Eugene.
'' Uncle," she said, " 1 think I must goto
the Hospice this morning; but 1 shall
not be long away."

Monsieur Eugene had been nerving himself
while she walked up and down.

You can listen to me first, Jeanne.
Will you sit down again ?" She came back
and sat down beside him. '' Jeanne," he
cleared his throat nervously, " I must
speak to you about Eaoul. He wishes
much for you, and  and," he looked painfully
embarrassed, " life will be happier
and gayer with him in a great city like
Paris than shut up at Montcour with an
invalid like me."

VOL. III. I

And you, uncle, bow could I leave
you ?"

That is what I have to tell you, dear
Jeanne ; we need not part. In the winter
we can all live in Paris, and in summer
we can go back to Montcour."

'' And the people, her people ? No,"
Jeanne shook her head, " I cannot leave
them in the cold weather, just when they
most need help."

But, my dear child, Raoul has often
told me we could let the Chateau to
people, rich people, who would do probably
more good in the village than we can
do."

'' Let the Chateau !" Jeanne thought
this idea treasonable, she had nearly said
it was worthy of Monsieur Raoul to propose
it, but somehow she did not say
it.

Instead she turned to Monsieur Eugene,
and raising his thin hand, she kissed it
gently.

'uncle," she said, *' I am cross and
unreasonable ; let me go now, I will give
you my answer when I come back from
the Hospice."

She went, leaving the gentle invalid
puzzled, yet more hopeful than he had
been when he first proposed Raoul asa
husband. And he had some reason for
hope.

Jeanne walked on in deep thought. Life
for her had put on a shroud; for Pauline's
letter had robbed Jeanne even of her
dream of loving Edmund. Henceforth she
must turn from this as she would turn
from theft, or from coveting another's
goods. Jeanne wondered why she had
not seen this more clearly before ; why the
unknown wife's rights should not have
been as sacred as those of the clinging
little woman who had sought her love.

She shrank from seeing PauHne, but
she could wish for her happiness as she
bad not thought of wishing for that of

I 2

the stranger who had robbed her of edmund.


If I never see him again," she
thought, " he will forget me, and his love
will return to her;" for it seemed to
Jeanne that Edmund must surely have
loved Pauline when he married her, and
then the love he had shown her when they
met came back to her, and she trembled
trembled both for him and for herself.

There was safety alone in distance. If
she never saw him, she trusted by Clod's
help to root out this terrible love which
had so taken hold of her that it seemed
to be herself. But if she saw him again,
though she might mercifully be preserved

from self-betrayal Jeanne paused, and

her heart sank, the remembrance of last
night was still too fresh not to keep her
humble.

' My face would tell my love," she said ;
' and then, oh, the wrong that I should
do Pauline !"

In Jeanne's nature petty thoughts
could find no chinks to root in; she
did not dwell an instant on Pauline's
silliness, on her incapacity to hold the
love of a man like Edmund. She could
not help sighing bitterly over the wreck
of her own hopes, the hopes that had
so fondly pictured all she would have
been to Edmund. A subtle temptation
whispered how he had told her that he
should always cling to her ; and truly she
felt, even in this trial, braver and stronger
than he, but there was no vanity in this,
Jeanne felt love too deeply not to believe
in it.

"If they both love one another," she
said, *' all the rest will be right, and who
can say that she will not make him
happier than I should have done ? He did
not love as I do, or he could not have
given me up"  her heart ached with
anguish.

All at once she saw in the distance a

man coming along the lonely road. Jeanne
trembled from head to foot. No, thank
God, it was not Edmund ! but she could
not at once recover from her shivering
fear. Would this happen whenever she
saw him ? She must leave Dinant, she
must persuade Monsieur Eugene to go
away at once, she could not run this fearful
risk.

She was near the Hospice, when a
thought, which had been haunting her
dimly ever since she started, made itself
distinct. Would it not be wiser, kinder,
in every way an unselfish action, if she
were to marry Raoul de Matagne ? It
would certainly be kindness to Edmund
and to PauUne.

If he saw that she was faithless
to him he would give up loving her ; and
she knew that though the thought of his
coldness was painful, yet belief in it
would help her own struggle for peace.
By marrying Raoul she should content

both Monsieur Eugene and his brother.
His brother  this was the dark side,
and Jeanne shrank from it with loathing
 would it be right to marry any man,
not loving him.

*' But there can be no sacrifice without
pain," and the pale, high-toned face looked
as earnest as that of some martyr as she
went up under the fast-yellowing avenue
to the gate of the Hospice.

You are early, my dear child," the
Sister said, as she came, jingling her keys,
to answer the bell. '' Madame Pauline
was here yesterday, and she said you were
coming to meet her at two o'clock, so I
did not expect you so soon ; but come income
in, why do you stand outside, my
dear young lady ?"

Jeanne shook her head, and then tho
Sister saw the change in her face.

I am not coming to see you to-day,"
Jeanne said. " Will you give a message
for me, dear Sister, to Madame Pauline ?"

"Yes, yes." Sister Sophie felt interested
and curious, it was so rarely that
outside events came into her peaceful
life, and she felt sure that there was something
wrong with her visitor.

*' Please give her my love," Jeanne
spoke hurriedly, "and say I am very
sorry, but I am unable to see her
to-day."

I am sorry, she will be so grieved," 
Sister Sophie felt quite troubled in anticipating
Pauline's disappointment,  " poor
little lady ! she has set her heart on
seeing you and taking you to her home."

But Jeanne felt braver now.

I am sorry too, and it must seem rude
to her; but it cannot be helped. You will
tell her I am sorry, and  and you will give
her my love."

She nodded and turned away; there
was more tenderness in those mild eyes
than she could bear, and she dreaded any
questioning.

Sister Sophie watched her tall, supple
figure as she walked down the avenue.

She is unhappy, poor child ! She has
trouble ; and such an angel of goodness as
she is ! We will make a novena for her.
She looks like one who will be made perfect
through pain ; but we will pray that
she may have courage to persevere."

And Jeanne, as she walked home, resolved
to write to Monsieur Hallez. She
would tell him of her meeting with edmund,
and of her danger ; and then ask his
advice as to her marriage with E-aoul de
Matagne.

She had turned away from Sister Sophie
only just in time. Her heart longed to go
out to some one. She could have flung her
arms round the kind, gentle sister, and
sobbed on her bosom. It seemed to
Jeanne that only now she fully realised
the loss of Mademoiselle de Matagne ; her
grandmother had taught her repression,
but she had not chilled the warm nature

which had expanded into such devoted
affection for her friend in those brief
months at Chateau Montcour.

What happiness Jeanne had found there,
and yet even then she had often pined for
Edmund. Oh, what would she give for
one of those serene, unconscious days ?
But she checked the longing as it came.
Something warned her not to give way to
any weakness while her path was still so
beset with danger. It did not occur to
her to bewail her solitary lot ; to mourn
that there was no loving heart in her home
to help her to bear this burden ; Monsieur
Eugene was all kindness, yet she could
never tell him her sad story. Jeanne felt
to-day as she had not been able to feel
yesterday, that there was a Friend who
would never fail  a Love which was always
hers.

CHAPTER X.

A DISCOVERY.

TTV Ais have gone by since Edmund found
-- his wife sobbing as if her heart would
break, lying with her face hidden on the
cushion of the sofa. And then, when she
roused to find him leaning over her, she
burst out in passionate exclamations.

No one loved her ; no one ever would
love her. She was such a foolish little
creature. She had shown Jeanne too much
fondness, and so she did not care for her
friendship, it seemed as if she had at last
found a friend, and now Jeanne had given
her up.

Edmund had tried to pacify her, but it
was difficult to bear her constant mention
of Jeanne  so at last he left her.

But the next few days he was more at
home than he had been for weeks. Mademoiselle
Herkenne smiled at the justice of
her conclusions, and Pauline was grateful to
excess ; she thought it was so very kind
of Edmund to try in this way to make up
for her disappointment.

The artists at Anseremme wondered
what had made their well-to-do comrade
give up his work all at once, just when the
weather was at its brightest ; and some
of them shrugged their shoulders and said,
It is the way with amateurs."

No one suspected that Edmund spent
his time watching the chance of another
meeting with Jeanne. He had found out
that she lived across the river, at
some distance from the town ; but he
shrank from questioning Pauline. His
only idea was to carry out his resolution

of seeing Jeanne once more ; and then he
would take Pauline to Italy and try to bear
his life as best he could.

Pauline went almost daily to the Hospice,
in the hope that she should see Jeanne. She
had at last consoled herself with the idea
that Monsieur de Matagne's illness had
become more serious, and that her friend
could not leave him. Still she thought
that if Jeanne cared for her friendship she
would write.

She could glean no tidings from Sister
Sophie. Once, when she asked if
Mademoiselle de Matagne had been
lately to see them, the sister answered
drily  '' I can give you no news
of her, Madame," and she turned
away.

One morning as Edmund passed the inn
near the market-place, the landlord was
sitting at a little table outside.

'' Good day. Monsieur Depuis," he said,
I have good news for you ; we expect

your cousin, Monsieur Baconfoy, by the
first boat."

Edmund turned away with a feeling
of discomfiture. He did not want
his cousin. He had not acknowledged
to himself that there was any wrong
in his endeavour to see Jeanne. It
was but just and truthful, he argued, to
justify himself in her eyes, and then bid
her farewell ; but he could not look forward
calmly to the scrutiny of his cousin's keen
eyes. Besides, Baconfoy had a way of
attaching himself to him in his walks, and
what did he know, before he could effect a
meeting with her, Jeanne might go away
and leave no clue by which he could find
her again.

He came in ruffled, and gave Pauline
the short answers he had of late abstained
from, and she went out of the
room in low spirits. It had come into
her head that perhaps Jeanne went to the
Hospice in the morning, and she had therefore

missed her by going in the afternoon.
It was painful to feel that her friend had
done this perhaps to avoid her, and
PauHne shrank timidly from the idea of
forcing herself upon Mademoiselle de
Matagne; but the sudden change in edmund's
manner this morning brought back
her longing for help, and she determined
to go to the Hospice and wait there for
the chance of seeing Jeanne.

She had been sitting for some time in
the work-room of the Hospice beside
Agathe, a crippled girl she had taught to
knit.

The girl smiled with delight as she saw
the pattern develop under her needles.

*' If Madame would have the goodness
to show Marie," she said shyly, 'rit would
so please her."

I will show her," said Pauline, '' if you
will take me to her ; she is in the sick ward,
I hear."

I will ask Sister Sophie, Madame," and

Agathe limped away with a smile of
delight.

Pauline waited, but the girl did not
come back, and after a while Sister Sophie
looked into the room where Pauline sat
waiting, a little apart from the group of
busy workers.

** Will Madame come out into the garden,
and see our dahlias ?" the Sister said. She
let Pauline pass out, and followed her till
they reached the walk. ''" I am sorry,"
the Sister was ill at ease ; '' but you cannot
see Marie, she is in the sick-ward, today,
and you do not like sick people,
Madame."

I do not like sick people because I do
not know how to speak to them ; but I
can teach Marie to knit. Sister."

Sister Sophie was not clever at keeping
secrets, and her face showed her trouble.

Madame is very kind ; but  but Marie
is really ill, and already she has a friend
with her this morning."

Mademoiselle de Matagne ?" Pauline
felt a sudden indignation. " No, Sister,
I will not see Marie ; do not fear that I
will force myself where I am not wished
for."

She turned away hastily, her eyes were
hot with tears. It was too hard that Jeanne
should shrink from her friendship. What
had she done to vex her ? Tears fell before
she could wipe them away from her eyes.

The kind Sister saw that she was crying,
and she was troubled.

Mademoiselle de Matagne only stays a
short time when she comes, Madame, and
she would not come at all if poor Marie
had not begged so hard to see her again ;
but Mademoiselle never stays a minute to
chat with me now."

'' Ah," and Pauline sighed. She could
not shake off the impression that to avoid
her Jeanne had given up her regular visits
to the Hospice. " Good-bye, Sister," she
said, " I too have not a minute to chat, for

VOL. III. K

we are expecting to see a friend today."


** You must not go away unhappy," the
Sister said kindly. Then as Pauline moved
towards the gate, *' Wait a moment, if
you please, Madame."

Pauline could not get out through the
locked gate, and the Sister had vanished
through a side door. Would Jeanne come
to her ? One moment she shrank from
seeming to force herself, and the next she
craved for even a sight of her friend.

She clasped her hands over her eyes, and
stood trying to calm her agitation. When
she looked up Sister Sophie had unlocked
the gate, and Jeanne stood beside it.

She smiled and came forward to meet
Pauline, but self-conscious and fluttered as
the little woman was, she was struck dumb
by the change in Jeanne's face. It was so
rigid in its calm paleness, the smile
lasted only for an instant, and then faded,
leaving the girl's Hps almost colourless.

'* I shall not be at Dinant long, Madame,"
she said, '* and you must not think it unkind
if I say we cannot meet again. I
shall never return to Dinant, and I live
in so remote a place that we are not
likely to meet ; believe me, it is much
better for us to say good-bye to-day."

There was a sad thrill in her voice
Pauline could not keep back her tears, and
as she looked up at Jeanne there was such
pathetic entreaty in those sweet brown
eyes that all her wounded feelings were
forgotten.

'' You are ill, I fear," said Pauline. " It
is selfish of me to worry you; but you
hardly know how I long for your friendship."


Jeanne pressed her hand, and then bent
down and kissed Pauline's forehead.

I am sorry it cannot be. Good-bye.
Remember, I am always your friend, and
we can pray for one another ; but please
do not try to see me again."

K 2

She spoke so solemnly that Pauline stood
silent and confounded, and she passed out
at the gate and let Jeanne lock it behind
her before she found courage to say a
word. Then, when Jeanne's black dress
had vanished round the corner of the
building, Pauline gave way. She clung to
the iron gate, and sobbed out her
grief.

It is my fate," she sighed to herself,
as some while after she went slowly towards
the bridge. *' No one will ever care
for me long ; except those poor children at
the Hospice, I am not sure that anyone
really cares for me ; they like me a little.
Oh, if some one would really love me !
Mademoiselle de Matagne finds there is
nothing in me to love, and she thinks it is
better to give me up altogether than to
wound me by coldness when we meet.
Ah, but it would have been something to
try to win her love. If she had only
known how the sight of her made me feel

better and wiser, I think she would have
given me a chance."

And then she remembered Jeanne's
pale sad face, and was hushed into
silence.

CHAPTER XL

Monsieur BACONFOY IS RUFFLED.

iyrOiS[SIEUR BACONFOY stood in the
- middle of the Place at Dinant, his
broad, genial face beaming with satisfaction.
It was market-day, and he
towered grandly above the groups of
buyers and sellers. The sun shone full
on him as he stood among them, his legs a
little apart, nodding and doffing his hat
to his many acquaintances.

He had already had a chat with the
hotel-keeper, and with some of the idlers
seated on the bench iu front of the cafe,
and he had learned that both Monsieur

and Madame Depuis had passed across the
bridge, and might soon be expected back
again.

Baconfoy did not object to the delay.
He was a keen observer, and he amused
himself in watching the faces of the careful
housekeepers of Dinant as they bargained
over their cabbages and eggs and fruit with
the brown wrinkled countrywomen, who
looked as if they had absorbed sunshine
enough to bake them.

Presents among the buyers he saw a
figure that seemed to have dropped from
another sphere. There was a style and
an ease in the dress and movements of the
tall figure certainly foreign to homely little
Dinant, and as the lady turned from the
egg-stall he saw her face ; it was the photographer's
housekeeper.

Baconfoy mistrusted women, but for all
that he liked to talk to one that had so
attractive an appearance as Mademoiselle
Herkenne ; and Elise had, when she chose

to exert it, a power of fascination that often
made her irresistible ; perhaps that was
why Yidonze had found himself compelled
to treat her with a deference he would
not have dreamed of bestowing on an
ordinary housekeeper.

Elise had not forgotten Monsieur Bacon-soy's
visit at Namur, and now there was
a courtesy in his low bow which pleased
her.

Good day, Mademoiselle," he said ; '' I
am waiting for this pair of lovers, our friends
who I hear have gone off for a walk."

Mademoiselle Herkenne bowed and
smiled.

They are both from home. Monsieur ;
but you have been misinformed, they are
not together. Madame Depuis has gone
to the Hospice."

She turned to walk away, but Baconfoy
walked beside her.

'madame Pauline is a good little soul
to go shutting herself up on a fine day like

this with a lot of invalids. Well, Mademoiselle,
I hear great things of your success.
I congratulate you, Vidonze tells me you
have a wonderful faculty for business."

A glow of pleasure stole into her dark
face.

Yes, Monsieur, I believe Monsieur
Vidonze is satisfied."

Is he here ? we have not seen him
in Namur this fortnight ; a lady staying
at my house is most impatient that
he should take her portrait."

'' No, he is not here, but he may come
any day ; he has written to say he will
soon be here." .

She guessed that Vidonze had been
spending this time in pursuit of Jeanne,
and she walked on in silence ; Baconfoy
wondered whether she cared specially for
her employer.

She is far too good for him, so far as
looks and manner go, but she is just the
wife he wants, she would change him from

a rolling stone into something practical."
Then as he took his leave, and went in
search of his cousin, he thought how
much better it would have been for edmund
if he had found a wife who would
have ruled him, instead of the spoiling
worship he had found in Pauline. " But
then"  he smiled at himself  '* I should
have had to give up my theory of marriage.
It is always a mistake, the right man
always gets the wrong woman, or it is
the other way ; the only safety would be
to wait till middle age before choosing ;
so many of these young files develop into
biters and prancers ; and it is the same
with the men, a boy that at school was as
dull as a calf, will turn into a roaring
bullock as he grows older ; but it is
worse with the women, because it is
part of their nature to sham  Hullo !
Edmund !"

Edmund was coming towards him, but
with his eyes bent on the ground. He

started, and then Baconfoy's cordial
greeting warmed him out of his listless
state.

'sand where is Madame Pauline? I
thought she would have been with you ;"
he gave Edmund an inquiring look.

'' She has gone to the Hospice, on the
other side of the river."

Well, then, let us go and find her, I
I,"  he said it awkwardly, as if he were
ashamed  " I know where it is, the Sisters
there are very good sort of creatures."

'' I should not have thought they were
in your line at all," said Edmund, laughing.


'' Oh, yes, I have seen them ;" he did
not say that on his last visit he had gone
of his own accord to the Hospice, and
after having been shown over it had presented
a liberal donation for the suffering
inmates. " You are working hard at
painting, I suppose ?" he said to his
cousin.

BESIDE THE Ever.

"Not just now;" he was so afraid of
Baconfoy's questions that it was a relief
to see Pauline coming towards them from
the other side of the bridge.

Baconfoy saw her too, and hurried forward
to meet her  his cheery smile comforted
her wounded heart. But she soon
turned from him to Edmund ; she was so
anxious to tell him her news.

Jeanne does still go to the Hospice" 
she said, eagerly. " I have seen her today
; but  " she began to sob  '' she is
going away, and she says that, as she shall
never come back here, I shall never see
her again. Do you hear, Edmund ?" for
he had turned away, and was looking up
the river ; " perhaps I shall never see her
again. She goes early to the Hospice
only to see a sick girl, and she says she
and I had better not meet any more."

Baconfoy had caught the name Jeanne,
and he had seen Edward's suddenly
changed expression before he turned from

bis wife. Monsieur Jules's curiosity was
on the alert; Pauline's distress puzzled
him.

'' Who is Jeanne ?" he spoke to Pauline,
but he looked at Edmund. " Is she a new
friend of yours ?"

Pauline wiped her eyes.

Not exactly a friend," she said, sighing;
'but I used to see her there. She is
Mademoiselle de Matagne. Oh! how you
would admire her!" she went on ; '' she is
so noble and beautiful. I do not mean prettiness
 she is far more than pretty; she is
just what a Jeanne should be ; but I cannot
talk of her," and then Pauline sighed
deeply.

Edmund stood leaning over the bridge ;
he seemed tohaveforgotten his companions.
Monsieur Baconfoy walked on beside
Pauline, more inquisitive than ever. Somehow
Pauline felt comforted by the very
sight of his broad, honest face, and his
cheery, kind, dark eyes ; it seemed as if

she had found a father who might help hera
little, though not as Jeanne could have
helped her.

You speak very sadly about this wonderful
person," he said, in his laughing way
as they walked across the Place. '' She
seems rather too much for you, my fair
cousin. What does Edmund say about
her?"

He has not seen her  that is part of
my trouble, I so wished him to see her ;"
her voice quavered, and then sank into
a sob.

Baconfoy was alarmed ; he was not used
to women, and he had no idea how to
treat a crying specimen of the sex. He
would have preferred to leave Pauline to
herself, but it seemed unkind to go away
from her. But Pauline recovered herself
quickly.

'' Cousin Jules," she said, ' I am very
fond of Jeanne, and I thought she was
going to be my friend ; and she was so

kind, and promised to come and see me,
and then all at once she changed, and left
a message at the Hospice that she could
not come; and I have never seen her since
till to-day, and now she says we can never
meet again."

You are sure Edraond has never seen
her?" said Baconfoy, carelessly.

'' Quite sure; but why do you ask ?"

'' Well, you know," he laughed again
in his mocking fashion, '' everyone cannot
think as you do, Madame Depuis ; and it
is possible that the lady has taken a dislike
to your husband, and does not wish
to see him."

How can you say such things  just as
if every woman does not like Edmund.
Even Mademoiselle Herkenne, to whom he
so seldom speaks, likes him ; and Madame
Boulotte adores him ?"

Monsieur Jules reddened.

*' Mafoi ! did she tell you so, and do you
consider it proper that another lady should

adore your husband ? fie ! T am scandalised,
Madame Pauline."

Nonsense !" said Pauline, gaily ; " at
Madame Boulotte's age it is different."

Monsieur Baconfoy grew suddenly grave.

You talk like a baby, my dear. I only
wish I were as young as Madame Boulotte
is. If  if but no matter. Now I must
go back and see what has become of that
laggard Edmund."

He was ruffled, and even when Edmund
joined him and they overtook Pauline, he
took little notice of her. As they went
into the house Mademoiselle Herkenne was
coming out of the glass door, and Baconfoy
bowed to her again.

You will not forget my message to
Yidonze, Mademoiselle, when you see
him ? You will tell him that business
waits for him at home. This lady is impatient
to have her portrait taken by the
famous photographer of Namur. Au revoir,
Mademoiselle;" he went upstairs

laughing. " Vidonze will believe that if
she tells him," he said.

'' She will tell him," said Pauline. " I
think Mademoiselle Elise likes to please
Monsieur Yidonze."

She is a wise woman ; and he, does
he care to please Mademoiselle Elise?"

Pauline shook her head.

"I do not think so; but then  " she
added, timidly, " men do not care to
please us as women care to please men ;
and Monsieur Yidonze is not a man who
would love anyone."

Baconfoy smiled, but he thought of
Madame Boulotte's story of her brother's
love.

"Did she say she expected Yidonze?"
Edmund had followed them upstairs in
silence.

Yes," Baconfoy answered, " Mademoiselle
says he may come any day. She
is a very fine woman ; Yidonze might doa
great deal worse."

VOL. III. L

CHAPTER XII.

A Parting.

rpHE prospect of Yidonze's arrival kept
- Edmund awake all through that night
and daylight did not quiet his uneasiness.
The very faculty which he admired
so much in Vidonze  his hawk-eyed keenness
 he feared now. If the photographer
stayed more than a day in Dinant, Edmund
felt sure he would discover Jeanne.

"When we were together that time at
Spa," he thought, " the fellow saw in an
instant what it would have taken me days
to discover, and which perhaps would have
escaped me altogether ; and not only that,
this housekeeper will tell him Jeanne is



here ;" for he remembered that Pauline
had said Mademoiselle Herkenne knew
Jeanne.

It was torture to Edmund to think that
Vidonze loved Jeanne ; it seemed a sort of
profanation that such a man should regard
her in that way.

But she would not listen to him," he
said, vehemently ; " no, not for a moment.
She is so pure that of necessity she will
recoil from a man who has lived as
Vidonze has." And then he thought that,
feeling herself wronged and deserted, there
was a risk in her seeing this man ; he had
heard strange things of what even good
women had done under the influence of
resentment  " She must know the truth ;
she must know at once that she has never
been given up by me ; she must listen to
the real facts about my marriage. What
shall I do? AY hat can I do?"

At breakfast time, Baconfoy joked him
about his silence.

L 2

Brooding over a new picture, eli ?
Come, my boy, I want you to take me to
Bouvignes  or, if Madame can accompany
us, why should we not all take the steamer
to Hour and walk back by way of the
cliffs."

Edmund brightened.
> *' Yes, that would be excellent," he
said. " You shall take Pauline, and I
will walk to meet you on your way
back."

"You are a nice, lazy fellow. Well,
Madame Pauline and I shall get on very
well without you."

Pauline pouted; but Edmund kept his
eyes away, and busied himself in making
preparation for a sketch he said he
must begin. As he left the room he
muttered something about not losing so
fine a morning in the house ; and then he
took his way to the Hospice.

As soon as he reached the avenue, he
seated himself in the forlorn, grass-grown

road, and opened his sketch-book. He
had determined, if he waited for hours,
that this morning he would see Jeanne.
If she were not alone, he hesitated how
to act, for, as the secret had been kept
so far, it seemed much better it should
not reach Pauline's ears.

'' She would never forget," he said, " and
it is not worth while to give her such a
grievance against me ; and it will be kinder
to her."

So long as he had been vaguely trying
to see Jeanne again, he had been too much
disturbed by excitement to forecast the
meeting; but Pauline's news had made it
plain that she was to be found either going
to or coming away from the Hospice, and if
he waited with determination he must see
her. If they met in the street, Jeanne
would try to avoid him; he felt sure of
this  indeed he would not wish her to beat
ease with him. Though sometimes he
told himself that a proud spirit like hers

would triumph over her love, she would
not be able to forgive the wrong done her
bj his marriage. And then when he
remembered the love he had seen in her
eyes, hope lived on.

But to-day, as he sat waiting, and
Jeanne did not come, hope grew faint
within him ; he began at last to think
that he might have been observed from
one of the windows, and that to avoid
him Jeanne had gone another way.
No one came up or down the lonely
avenue, but from far off occasional tokens
of life reached him  not distinct sounds,
but a murmur more like the hum of bees,
or the far off caw of a community of
rooks.

He had been trying to sketch a bit of
the avenue, but he made slow progress,
for his head was not with his hand. In
the midst of his fumbling efforts, the
dinner-bell at the Hospice clanged loudly
into the stillness. He did not know how

in ten so] J he longed to see Jeanne till this
end to his hopes came. And now he
must wait till tomorrow  no, he could
not wait. A mad impulse seized him.
He would rush all over the neighbouring
country ; he must and would find out the
house where Jeanne lived. He turned
from the Hospice and took the road beside
the river leading to Bouvignes.

He had walked some way from the
town, as he had often walked before, but
to-day he took a side road that led him
farther from the river ; a little way on he
came in front of a garden railed off from
the road. A large house stood back in
the garden, and there were wooden seats
below the windows. A gentleman sat on
one of these seats, reading ; at least he held
a book, but his eyes seemed to be straying
from it.

Edmund stood, not exactly looking at
him, but resting against the railings ; it
seemed useless to go farther in this direction

; even so far as this would be a long
walk for Jeanne. While he stood irresolute,
the gentleman turned round to the
open window behind him and called out,
Jeanne."

Edmund stood fascinated. A thrill
went through him ; but no answer followed
the call ; and after a while a servant
came out of the house, and he and the
gentleman disappeared through a small
gate on the Bouvignes side of the garden.

It seemed to Edmund an absurd conjecture,
and yet he felt persuaded that
Jeanne Lahaye lived in this house. He
resolved to linger about for the chance of
seeing her come out into the garden ; then
suddenly, without taking any counsel with
himself, he went round to the gate which
he had passed before he came in sight of
the house; the gate was open, and he
went boldly in and crossed the garden to
the flight of steps in front of the entrance
door, and rang the rusty bell which hung



beside it. The bell sounded hollow, as if
the house were deserted, and the time
after he had rung before anyone came
seemed very long. Then a quiet-looking
woman came and asked what he wanted.

I want to see Mademoiselle de Matagne,"
he said, firmly. If the woman
had said " No such person lives here," he
would not have believed her, his conviction
was now so strong that Jeanne was
here. It was no surprise to him, it
scarcely quickened his pulses, to hear the
woman say 

Will Monsieur come with me ?"

He followed along a gallery at the back
of the house ; the side of the gallery was
glass, and through it he saw the garden.
At the end of the gallery was a door with
a curtain drawn across, and as the woman
lifted this she asked Edmund his name.

He was not taken by surprise, he had
prepared what he should say as he followed
her.

You can show me in," he smiled, '' I
am an old friend whom Mademoiselle
Jeanne will be glad to see."

The easy smile and *' Mademoiselle
Jeanne " satisfied the maid ; she drew
aside the curtain, opened the door, and
closed it upon Edmund. Then she went
back to her kitchen without troubling herself
about the visitor.

Jeanne was writing to Monsieur Hallez.
She had already written to tell him of her
meeting with Edmund, and to ask his
advice about Monsieur Raoul ; but she
was now telling him about Pauline, and
of the sorrow which she had caused the
poor little wife.

As she wrote, her own sorrow was
very present to Jeanne, and tears fell on
her paper. She looked up when the door
opened  but she did not move  Edmund
gave her no time to speak.

"You must pardon me for coming here.
I have come to see you on a matter of

business ; you have nothing to fear from
me, Jeanne."

He stood still at the farther end of the
table at which Jeanne was sitting ; but his
eyes were fixed on ber face, taking note of
every feature as if he were learning by
heart every shade of expression, every
tint of the varying colour that showed
how deeply moved she was.

Why do you come here, Monsieur
Depuis?" she said, coldly. "I said we
must not meet again  it is wrong."

We will not meet after to-day. Will
that satisfy you ?" He spoke bitterly, for it
seemed to him Jeanne had already cast him
out of her heart; *' but you must, if you
please, listen to me now."

Jeanne had risen while he spoke, and
she stood resting her clasped hands on the
table. She knew that this interview was
foolish and wrong, but Edmund's tone was
so determined that she felt obliged to
listen.

When I told you I was married," he
grew pale with agitation as he spoke,
you thought I had forgotten you. I
never forgot you, Jeanne. When your
letter came refusing to marry me, I
upbraided you, but I loved you still all
the time. My heart was hungering for
some answer to the love I had poured out
in that letter ; Jeanne, I have never left
off loving you."

She had stood quite still, her eyes
fixed on her clasped hands; now she
turned restlessly away, her heart was
throbbing wildly.

I cannot listen to you," she said ; but
her voice was hoarse and broken, and joy
came back to Edmund at the sound.

'' My story is not much longer," he
went on. '' I only want to do myself
a little justice in your eyes. I had got
into the way of seeing a  a friend; I
believe because I was too miserable, too
cowardly you will say, to bear my sorrow

alone. Yes, I was a coward ! a fool ! Oh,
Jeanne, no names that you can heap on me
can match what I think myself to be."
She moved again restlessly. '' Well, I  I
found that while I had been meaning friendship,
my friend considered me her lover,
and I was weak enough  fool enough-wicked
enough, if you will, to ask her to
be my wife."

There was a pause. Edmund kept his
eyes fixed on Jeanne's face. Presently she
said in a low voice.

'' Thank you for telling me this  but
she is your wife, and you must love
her. Now, Monsieur Depuis, will you
will you leave me ?"

No, not yet." He drew himself up ; he
felt freed from a burden now that he had
confessed to Jeanne. " I have not told you
everything. I told her I had no love to
give ; that I loved one who did not return
my love,  but I could not love again."

And she was content with this ?"

Jeanne startled herself by her own
vehemence.

'eyes," he moved nearer to her, '' and
Jeanne, this gives me the right still to
love you. I shall never see you again,
for I feel that you despise me ; but you
are in my heart ; my life, my love, are
yours. My wife cannot expect from me
that which I told her she could not have 
she married me on her own terms."

Jeanne's impulse was to cover her face.
She dreaded that it might betray her, and
yet some warning, felt rather than heard,
whispered her to keep outwardly unmoved.


"This is unworthy of you," she said;
her voice wavered, though she strove to
speak hardly; "when you first married
you owed your wife nothing ; but  but
now it is different. You used to be
generous, Edmund."  She hesitated; the
name had slipped out against her fixed
purpose ; the blood flowed over her pale

cheeks. She tried to feel angry with
him. '' Surely when you know how your
wife loves you, you must love her in
return."

Edmund had grown bolder; he began
to feel by little signs and tokens that
Jeanne was fighting against herself. He
told himself that this was their last
meeting. Why should not nature have
its way ? Jeanne had been his once, and
in spite of all that had happened, he had
never left off loving her.

*' Jeanne"  though she did not look up,
she felt his gaze, and it seemed to burn into
her soul  'you say what you do not
really believe in. You know what love
is  then can you tell me my love is a
puppet to be given first to one and then
to another as what you call duty bids ?
Child, child  do not make my misery
greater than it is." The agony in his
voice seemed to rend away reserve from
Jeanne, and to make her feel that she

must at once fly from him if she would
not own her love. '' Jeanne, can you not
feel that our love, yours and mine, is so
entwined with life that it is a part of us ;
that we cannot tear it out of ourselves,
unless we tear our hearts out with it.
Listen," for Jeanne was moving towards
the door, slowly, because she knew that
as he stood Edmund could at once intercept
her flight, *' T have told you all
my miserable folly, and for comfort you
fling me a stone. You bid me go home
and love my wife  Oh, God ! how can
you be so cruel? What harm can it do
you to feel that I love you always ?"

But Jeanne's struggle was over; she
had cried out for help, and the cloud
that seemed to blind her at first had
cleared away.

Monsieur Depuis," her voice was quiet
again, though it sounded as if it were
fall of kept-back tears ; the sweet, low
tones vibrated through him, '* all this is

useless. I do not deny that I have loved
you, that I still love you ; but you might
as well hope to call back the dead to life
as to make me go on loving you when I know
it is a sin. . I can never forget you. . . .
God knows how I shall pray that happiness
may come to you. Try, dear friend,
to see how much you wrong yourself by
every word of love you now speak to me."

She stopped ; she could find no more
words.

You will at least say ' Good-bye ?' "
He held out his hand, and Jeanne placed
her quivering fingers in his ; and her
eyes met Edmund's. Then a shiver ran
through her, and shook her from head
to foot, and he heard a stifled sob.

Jeanne  my Jeanne," he said, tenderly
pressing the cold fingers in both
his burning hands, " why will you harden
yourself against nature ? There is no
harm in your love for me. You could
not love unless God had given you the

VOL. III. M

power, and you do love me still, my own

Jeanne I shall never see you again ;

think of the years that lie before me ;
give me one joy in this depth of misery,
let me hear those dear lips once more say,
I love you.' "

A sudden strength came to Jeanne.
She met Edmund's eyes fearlessly now.

'' Let me go," she said, proudly. '' You
have broken your promise."

He dropped her hand and stood still till
she reached the door.

Say you forgive me. Do not let. us
part angrily. I have not your strength
of will, Jeanne but you shall not seeme
again."

I forgive you ; but I must go. Every
minute I spend with you is a sin against
your wife. Try to think how sad and
desolate her life must be without her
husband's love." She waved her hand,
and closed the door behind her.

Edmund stood gazing after her, then

mechanically not heeding where he went,
he quitted the house, and walked as if ina
trance along the road by which he
had come. He was unconscious of time
or place, guided by instinct only, till
roused suddenly by the movement around
him, he found himself in the Grande
Hue of Dinant, near home.

M 2

CHAPTER XIII.

FLIGHT.

"IVrO surer proof could be found of
- the utter blindness which truelove
causes than in Jeanne's feeling
towards Edmund Depuis. She did not
know, except by her bodily exhaustion,
how intensely she had suffered in this
struggle with herself; but she felt no
bitterness towards Edmund, she did not
even say to herself that he had been cruel
in thus rousing into fresh vigour the love
against which she had striven. She stumbled
on, blinded and stricken, to her room
and sank on her knees, and thanked

God for the help He had given. Her
head sank on her shoulder, and a sort
of stupor made her for the time blessedly
unconscious. Then suddenly she roused
to vivid consciousness of her love, and
struggling against its power she poured
out a confession of it as she still knelt
beside her bed. For Jeanne had no
modern sophistry to confuse her judgment,
she knew  and these minutes of dire
temptation had made her know yet more
keenly  that it was sin to love a man whose
own love, whether he had given it or
not, belonged to the woman he had married.

She prayed that this love, which was
making every fibre bleed as she struggled
against the thought of it, might be taken
away from her. But prayer seemed to
bring no comfort. It seemed to fall back
upon her.

She rose from her knees and sat down
to think. If she were to enter a convent
she could put an eternal barrier

between herself and Edmood ; but this
idea appeared false and cowardly. . . . She
was in the dark, groping for what she did
not know ; prayer had seemed a refuge 
something that would help to drive out
this terrible love, but it had brought no

comfort But she felt dimly that she

must not cease to struggle with her love
at last she had learned its strength.

After awhile she lay down on her
bed. In this reaction from her enforced
calm, she was trembling as if an ague
had seized her.

One thing she saw clearly; she must
not remain in the neighbourhood of edmund
; she dared not. Only absence could
bring back security and calm. She did
not hope for peace, Jeanne knew there
could not be peace in her heart so long
as the mere thought of Edmund had
such power over her. How was she to
escape him ?

She had pledged herself not to leave

Monsieur Eugene, but that was when he
was a comparatively helpless invalid, entirely
dependent on her society.

*' If I stay here it will be doing evil
that good may come," she said, simply.
*' I dare not run the risk."

Something warned her that so long as
Edmund believed she loved him, so long
would he persist in loving her; and though
she had struggled till the suffering had
been beyond her strength, she had an
uneasy feeling that Edmund had been
aware of this struggle, and that he still
believed in her love. No good, nothing
but harm, could come of another meeting,
and it would be a direct injury to Pauline.
Yes, unless she went away there must
remain a daily dread, a daily risk.

At last she rose up, smoothed her hair,
and went down to look for Monsieur
Eugene. He had come back from his
walk, and was sitting on his favourite
bench beneath the windows.

BESIDE THE Ever.

He welcomed her with his usual smile ;
but at the sight of her face the smile
faded, and he sat upright in his chair and
looked nervous.

'' Uncle," she did not give him time to
speak, " will you let me go back to Chateau
Montcour? I  I am not well here; and
besides, I have a reason for going home,
and I shall have the house quite ready
for you when you have finished taking
your baths."

Monsieur Eugene's face was full of
astonishment. At first he only stared, then
he said :

And Raoul ? What answer am I to
give him."

I had forgotten Monsieur Raoul."

But you will tell me before you go ;
you are not in a hurry, Jeanne, you do not
want to go for a week. There is going to
be a fair across the river, I saw the row of
booths this morning just below the bridge;
and I hear there will be fireworks ; it is just

what would please you, and you can buy
toys in plenty for the little ones at the
Hospice. You will wait for the fair,
Jeanne ?"

He looked childishly pleased in anticipation.


Jeanne clenched her hands tightly.

I must go at once. Please do not
ask me why, dear uncle ; but if she had
been here she would have wished me to
go away. Some day at Montcour I will tell
you everything  only say that I may go ?"

She clasped her hands earnestly together ;
there was such a piteous look in her
eyes that Monsieur Eugene felt shocked
and taken by surprise ; it seemed to him
that Jeanne almost belonged to Eaoul
already, and that Raoul ought to be consulted
about her movements.

"But'* bespoke fretfully, '' surely you
will give me an answer for Raoul ; and
then you cannot travel alone, there are
many things to arrange."

'* Yes, yes, uncle"  Jeanne felt that she
must adopt the motherly tone that Mademoiselle
de Matagne had always used
towards her brother  ** I have arranged all
that. I will take Marie ; you know she must
have gone first to get the house ready;
and I will leave you Louis and Ellie.
There, dear uncle, you see it is all right."

But Raoul ?" he persisted.

The invalid was rubbing his hands together
with a very troubled face.

Jeanne stood still a moment ; she had
not heard from Monsieur Hallez, but she
knew now what her answer must be.

'* I am sorry, uncle, but I cannot marry
Monsieur Raoul," she bent down and
kissed one of his delicate wasted hands.
1 can never marry. Let me stay with
you at Montcour. I want no other
life."

He drew his hand away and sighed ;
for the first time he found Jeanne
unreasonable and headstrong; but his

reading had taught him there was douse
in thwarting a woman's will.

'' You seem to have made up your
mind, I am disappointed," he said, coldly.
Of course I can say nothing more. I
will write to Raoul."

In his heart he blamed his sister; but
for the written instructions she had left
that Jeanne was to have full liberty of
choice, the marriage might have been
happily arranged. He should have presented
Eaoul to Jeanne as her husband,
and she would have obeyed as a matter
of course.

But he was too amiable to cherish anger
against Jeanne. She left him, and at
once began her preparations, for she had
resolved to start very early next day,
and when at night she bade him
farewell, he was as gentle and kind as
usual.

*' Forgive me," she said ; '' I know I
seem hard and abrupt, but some day I

will tell you everything, and then you
will say I acted rightly."

It was wonderful to see how this call
on her energy had helped Jeanne. She
slept soundly, and next morning was able
to start on her journey with la cheerful
face, though, when she got the last glimpse
of Dinant from the railway carriage, her
heart felt a sudden wrench. She knew
that this was really her final parting from
Edmund Depuis

It was afternoon before she reached
Comblain au Pont, and while she waited
for a carriage to take her and her possessions
to Chateau Montcour, she saw a
face she knew among some loiterers outside
the station.

Good day. Monsieur Charles," she
said. ' How have you all been in our
absence ?"

Charles was bowing profoundly ; his joy
brought tears to his eyes.

Ah, Mademoiselle ; but this is indeed

an unlooked for happiness. There will bea
chorus of thanksgiving in the village."

Thank you ;" Jeanne felt a warm glow
at her heart at this welcome.

'' You must tell Monsieur Jacques and
Monsieur Auguste that I am coming to
see them tomorrow."

But surely Mademoiselle is not expected
?" said Charles. " I was at the
Chateau this morning, and old Gazette
said she did not know when Mademoiselle
and Monsieur would come home. Ah,
Mademoiselle, the Chateau will be cold and
damp and full of dust ; will Mademoiselle
honour the hotel by going there tonight,
and I will send a girl to help
Gazette to get the Chateau ready for
tomorrow ?"

Very well," said Jeanne, " if you can
take us in, Monsieur Charles, I think it
will be the best plan. Come, Marie, weare
going to the Coq door instead of the
Chateau."

Marie looked doubtful ; the De Matagne
family never slept at the inn, and she was
not sure that it was a right thing to do ;
but she had to follow Jeanne, while
Charles Cajot mounted the box, enchanted
at the honour that was about to be conferred
on his house.

Until he was halfway home along the
picturesque road beside the Amblve, he
did not remember his promise to Antoine
Vidonze ; it was when his head was full of
a special new omelette invented by the
cook, and which he decided should be
extemporised for ''Mam'zelle Jeanne," that
he suddenly remembered his engagement
to tell the photographer. He wished he
had held his tongue, but the brothers
Cajot were men of honour : " I made a
promise, so I must keep it," he said with
a sigh.

CHAPTER Xii.

Pursuit.

11/rONSIEUR BACONFOY's visit to
"- Din ant was drawing to a close. In
two days or so visitors of importance were
expected at La Grue, and his presence
would be necessary ; and yet he was unwilling
to go away without getting one
private talk with his cousin Edmund.
There seemed always something in the way.
Either Edmund went sketching, or Pauline
offered to join the two men in their walks ;
and yet ever since the time when Edmund,
after being out all day and missing his
appointment with them at Hour, had
come in pale and exhausted, and so irritable

that his wife scarcely dared to
speak to him, his cousin Jules had felt
more than ever sure that there was
something very wrong with his young
cousin.

He had always looked upon himself in
the light of a parent to the orphan left
so entirely to his care, and though Edmund
was married, and might be considered fit
to take care of himself  the good-natured
cynic rather doubted this  he could not
feel justified in leaving him entirely self-dependent.


''He may be in debt," he thought,
and he is too proud to apply to his
wife ; besides they evidently do not pull
together as they did when they were first
married." He was surprised to find how
sorry this conviction made him, and yet it
confirmed so admirably his theory against
marriage. " It is sad," he went on, " but
I cannot mend it, though I will speak to
Edmund to-day."

'' I should like a walk with you when
you have done sketching to-day, Edmund,"
he said ; " we will not take Madame with
us  it will be too far for her ; let us walk
over to Montaigne."

'' Very well ;" but Edmund would rather
have been left to himself.

Pauline came in presently with a packet
of letters for Monsieur Baconfoy.

I believe I am right," she said, smiling
at Jules. " I really think Elise cares
for Monsieur Yidonze ; she is quite excited
at the idea of his coming to-day."

'rare you sure he is coming?" said
Edmund.

She says so. So many letters have
come for him that she feels sure he
will arrive to-day. I wish he would
marry her, it would be 'b wise thing for
both."

Do you think he would make a good
husband ? " Baconfoy asked. " Do you

VOL. ITT. N

not think Mademoiselle Herkenne is better
off as she is? '*

' Not if she loves Monsieur Yidonze."
Pauline spoke gravely, and Baconfoy wondered
whether she had really found marriage
a happy state.

Edmund shrank with a sort of loathing
from the idea of seeing the photographer.


I shall not sketch to-day," he said
to his cousin. *' I am at your service
whenever you like to start for montaigne."


Pauline felt disappointed, but she knew
she could not walk so far, and for some
days past she had not ventured on the
slightest contradiction of her husband.
Edmund had been silent and stern, and
when he had spoken to her it had always
been to find fault.

When they had left her she thought over
Baconfoy's words.

*ram I so very happy ?" she thought.

What makes me think marriage a happy
state ? I begin to sse that one is
happy just at first, and then it changes.
Ah, but," her eyes filled with tears, " one
can always have the joy of loving, even if
one is not loved."

Meantime the two cousins had crossed
the bridge ; just as they were passing the
railway station, Antoine Vidonze was
coming down the steps, and he saw them
going by the gate.

He hailed Edmund Depuis, and flung
up his arms to express his joy at the
meeting, while Edmund wished the " vulgar,
noisy fellow," as he called him, at
the bottom of the Meuse.

Come back, come back with me," said
Vidonze, '' you do not know what I have
to show you ; views that will make your
hair curl, my good fellow," he slapped
Edmund boisterously on the shoulder ; " if
you could only paint some of them you
might call yourself lucky, and make

N 2

yourself famous; come along, I say."

' Look here, Vidouze, Depuis and I have
some business together;" Baconfoy did
not like the photographer much better than
Edmund did, although he was not so
fastidious. " You go and have your
dinner, and read your letters. Mademoiselle
has plenty for you, and Depuis and I will
see these treasures when we come back ;
au revoir, my friend," and with his broad
smile he patted the half-angry, red-bearded
man on the arm, and taking Edmund
along with him, he started off at a brisk
pace.

Most haste worse speed," Vidonze
growled after them, '' there is no time
like the present."

The two cousins walked on for sometime
in silence. Edmund spoke first.

Could you fancy it possible, Jules,
that any nice woman could listen to the
love of such a fellow as that ?"

Baconfoy laughed.

You have come to the wrong mammon
cher. Madame Pauline would tell
you that I am not to be listened to on
the subject of woman, but looking at it
without prejudice I do not see why Yidonze
should not have as good a chance with
the fair sex as another ; he is tall and
good-looking, and good looks do wonders
with women'*

You know better, he is a great coarse
brute," said Edmund, irritably. '' I cannot
think that a high-minded woman would
listen to him for a moment."

Baconfoy noticed the bitter way in
which the young man spoke.

'' I am not sure of the person you mean.
Mademoiselle Herkenne is a fine woman,
but she hardly looks high-minded. I
fancy she would have our photographic
friend if he asked her."

I was not thinking of Mademoiselle
Herkenne."

Edmund walked on silently, as if he had

done with the subject, but Baconfoj's
curiosity was whetted.

"Perhaps you are thinking of Mademoiselle
Lahaye ? that is another matter.
But, from what Madame Boulotte told me,
she seems to have disappeared, no one
knows where she is. However, Vidonze
is a determined fellow, he will find her one
of these days, and then, ma foi, who
knows, he will marry her whether she
wishes it or not."

I do not believe it, I will not believe
it ! you do not know the person you are
talking of!" he said, angrily.

Ma foi ! I know she is a woman."
Baconfoy's laugh drove Edmund wild in
his over-wrought state. *' But you are
very touchy to-day, Edmund, and I
wonder what cousin Pauline would say
to this enthusiasm for Mademoiselle
Jeanne."

Edmund glared at him as if he were
going to strike him, then he said,

* I thought you too great a philosopher
to meddle between man and
wife."

Baconfoy looked grave at once.

'' I shall not meddle between man and
wife, but I had better speak out," he said.
You have always come to me for advice,
Edmund, before T offered it, now I offer
it before you come to me. Things are
not right with you lately ; what is it,
mori crier? are sou in debt? can I help
you ? you may as well be frank, you are
the only child I shall ever have?" Ashe
ended his serial smile came back.

Edmund's heart reproached him, and
yet he could not tell the truth. He
would not do Pauline the added wrong of
confessing to anyone but Jeanne that he
did not love his wife.

You are a good fellow, Jules, and I
am tiresome and hasty-tempered, as I
always was. I suppose the worries and
restraints of marriage do not improve a

man's temper. I am not speaking against
mj wife. Heaven knows she is far too
good for me, but I agree with you that
for some men marriage is a mistake."


You have not answered my question.
What is wrong ? Are you in debt ?"

*' On the contrary, we live so far within
our income that I had thought of taking
Pauline to Italy, and studying art there fora
year or so."

Baconfoy noticed that he said all this
sadly, as of a thing to be done, without
any of the enthusiasm with which he
would once have spoken of such a journey.

Well," he said, ' I see you will not
give me your confidence, so we will talk of
something else ; but by your own showing
you have no right to be gloomy ; you say
you have a good wife  I can see she is
charming  you are not troubled with
money matters; you have good health,
and can employ your time as you choose ;

and, best of all, you have a talent which
gives you employment. I never met with
so fortunate a man. What ails you, edmund
? Perhaps you want a little misery
thrown in to make you value what you
have."

A groan that was almost a sob burst
from Edmund Depuis.

For God's sake talk of somebody or
something else, as you suggested; but
never think T do not trust you, Jules."

He wrung his cousin's hand hard, and
then they walked on silently.

By the time they had reached the ruined
castle of Montaigne, Edmund's spirits had
come back. He rattled on about the
beauties and the ancient glories of the
place ; and even joked Baconfoy on his
unwillingness to trust his ponderous
weight on the broken, fern-clad steps
leading to the subterranean part of the
ruins. He sketched rapidly in his notebook
one or two points that Baconfoy

specially admired, and by the time they
had reached Dinant again he was brighter
and blither than he had been for weeks.

Pauline gave them a charming welcome,
and they found the table already spread
for supper.

'' I thought you would be hungry after
your walk," the little woman said, '' so
Valerie and I planned to have supper an
hour sooner. We have both been hard at
work to get it ready."

Edraond thought how pretty and bright
she was looking, blushing over her own
housewifery, and Baconfoy was enchanted.

*' You almost reconcile me to matrimony,
my dear child," he said. " I had
no idea a wife could be notable and charming
all at once."

Presently, when he had done justice
to a dish-full of brilliant scarlet crevices
de Meiise, which glowed in the
dish against the cool green of vine leaves,
he said :

Have you seen Yidonze ? Has he
called here?"

Pauline gave a little scream, and clapped
her hands. Edmund's smile and Monsieur
Baconfoy's praise had brought back the
sparkle to her spirits.

'soh!" she cried, "I had quite forgotten
my news. Mademoiselle Elise is in
despair. I saw for the first time great
tears in the poor thing's eyes, and it is
very hard for her. She had so counted on
keeping Monsieur Yidonze here at least
two or three days."

Edmund turned pale ; he stammered ashe
spoke.

'' What do you mean ? Is he gone
again 

Listen," she raised her finger in mock
authority, " and I will tell you how it
all happened. I was sitting at needlework
; it was before I thought of hurrying
supper, you know,"  she did not see
Edmund's impatient writhe  ** and Mademoiselle

HerkeDne came rushing into the
room. ' Where is Monsieur Depuis ?' she
said ; ' I want him directly.' I told her
you had gone out for a walk, and then I
asked what was the matter, for she looked
half-crazy. She said, 'Monsieur Yidonze
has gone away ; he was to have staid
some days, and he is gone ;' and then she
hurried away again out of the room. I
went after her, and I saw she was
crying. I thought there had been a quarrel
between them, but she says that almost
before he spoke to her he began to open
his letters ; and then, as soon as he had
read the first one, he rushed away, leaving
the rest on the table. He snatched up
his bag ; so she thinks he is not coming
back''

Well," said Baconfoy, '' I do not see
much in that. I might do the same
myself if I found that important business
was waiting for me, and we know
what a rough and ready fellow Vidonze is."

*' You would not be so cruel," said
Pauline, " I am sure you would not.
Just think how this poor thing has
been expecting him, and how often he has
put off coming, and I know she had been
getting all her accounts ready ; and
Valerie tells me Mademoiselle had ordered
him such a beautiful little supper, and
had sent to the hotel for a bottle of his
favourite Burgundy. Oh, I think it is
abominable to leave her so suddenly
without giving any reason."

Edmund had remained silent. " Where
is Mademoiselle Herkenne ? ''  he pushed
away his plate as he spoke  "it is perhaps
about business she wants me."

I will find out," and Pauline rang the
bell for Valerie.

CHAPTER XY.

AN ESCAPE.

rpHE Ambleve was singing over the
-*- stones in its bed as merrily as ever ;
brown cows were feeding on the little
green island, and the sun was turning
grass and stream and the vane of the
black-capped towers of Montcour, across
the water, into gold.

As Jeanne came down the flight of
stone steps in front of the vine-clad inn,
the sun fastened on her hair and made
it into a golden glory across her broad
forehead. She had slept two nights at
the inn, instead of one, for the old servant

had brought such a dismal account
of the damp in the Chateau that Jeanne
had yielded to her entreaty that the rooms
might be well aired before she went home.
Jeanne had found plenty to do.
She had been to see Monsieur le Cure,
and had learned from him the state
of the village with regard to health
and sickness. Two of her special favourites
 a husband and wife  she found
lying side by side, too ill to move from
bed, penniless ; they had no child or
anyone on whom they had a claim to
nurse them. Then, after providing for
the tendance of these sufferers, she had
to talk to Jacques Cajot, deaf now, and
much more infirm than when she had left
the Chateau. He was, however, delighted
to see her, and to find that she hoped in
future to live on at Chateau Montcour.
Auguste, too, expressed pleasure in his
usual awkward fashion ; but Charles
avoided her.

As she came down the steps, Jeanne
looked to see if Jacques Cajofc was in
the vine arbour. Yes, there he was,
he did not lift his head, he was too deaf
to hear the sound of her footsteps. There
was a basket of potatoes and a bowl of
water on the table, but his head was sunk
on his breast, and his hands were idle.

Bon jour, Monsieur Jacques," the
girl said ; *' is it not a bright, beautiful
morning ? '*

'' Bon jour, Mademoiselle," he doffed
his black straw hat, '' it is fine weather ;
yes, yes ; I am glad you are here to
enjoy it. When shall we see Monsieur
de Matagne and Monsieur Eaoul ?" His
watery old eyes had an extra gleam of
intelligence as he looked at Jeanne, and
then at the bowl of potatoes.

Monsieur Eugene will be here very
soon." Then she added, " Is there anything
wrong with your brother Charles,
Monsieur Cajot ? he seems out of spirits.



he has not a word to say to me."
"No, Mademoiselle," he shook his head,
I am not aware of anything ; but young-people,
you know,"  he shrugged his
shoulders,  " pardon, Mam'zelle, you are
young too ; but then you are not foolish ;
you do not throw your words here 
there  everywhere  mafoi ! as they throw
corn to chickens  for any stray passer-by
to gather. Charles is heedless."

Jeanne smiled, and bade the old man
good day. She did not like to ask questions,
but she felt uncomfortable. Jacques
was evidently vexed with his brother ; what
could Charles Cajot have been gossiping
about ? She remembered now that Barbe,
the Cure's housekeeper, had said Charles
was a chatterton.

Jeanne went pensively across the plank-bridge
over the brook  which here came
gurgling down into the Amblve and
then strolled along the strip of green
meadow on the left beside the river. A

VOL. III.

little on in front, just below the Chateau,
were the stepping-stones, unused for
years, since the way up the almost
perpendicular rock had become overgrown
by the trees and underwood, which now
clothed it to the garden of Chateau
Montcour.

As Jeanne walked on, the high road
which ran between the inn and the river
became separated from the meadow by a
screen of trees and bushes, so that she
found herself in utter solitude as she
neared the dark, mysterious bend where
the stepping-stones seemed placed as a
barrier against further progress.

All at once she saw a man coming
towards her along the strip of green
meadow. He was very tall, and he carried
a bag ; but as Jeanne came in sight
of him at the bend made by the river, he
was looking towards the high-road. She
could not see his face. He turned
towards the road, and taking off his hat

he wiped his face with his hanker
hies.

Jeanne's heart seemed to stop beating.
She crouched down into the grass, flinging
herself backward, so that the turn
of the bushes might shield her from sight ;
for even at that distance she had recognised
Antoine Yidonze.

She lay there some minutes, quite
shocked by his sudden apparition, and
then, finding he did not appear, she rose
up again  he was out of sight. Evidently
he had taken the high road, which was a
shorter way to the inn than by following
the green path beside the river.

Jeanne could not have told what she
feared. She only knew that she had
a most unreasoning terror of Antoine
Vidonze ; and she was utterly defenceless
against him at the Chateau ; with the
exception of old toothless Baptiste, the
gardener, there was not a man there.
She could depend on no one but herself



for protection. She gave one moment to
thought; she saw that, however quickly
she might hasten by the road to the
Chateau, when she came out in front of
the inn, which she must pass, she would
be exposed to the sight of Yidonze, and he
would at once come after her. What should
she do ? Suddenly she remembered the
day when Mademoiselle de Matagne had
told her that as a child she had often
reached the heights on which the Chateau
stood by way of the stepping-stones.

Jeanne had no time to lose. Vidonze
would soon get to the inn, and he
might inquire of old Jacques and
learn which direction she had taken.
She quickly pulled off her shoes and
stockings, and raising her black skirts
she ventured boldly on to the stones.
The water was low, and the stones were
not very slippery. Jeanne was sure-footed,
but once, just as she reached the
opposite side of the river, she would

have slipped off a broken stone if she
had not caught at a birch-tree which
bent forward from the bank. Her
heart sank as she saw the dense growth
of underwood before her. She could
not discover where to begin her upward
climb. A little way on was a
huge bush of broom, and in sheer
desperation she forced her way through
this ; behind it she found broom-bushes
so high as to reach her shoulders, but
these were more yielding than the underwood.


It was exhausting work climbing the
steep ascent and fighting against the close
growth of the broom and other bushes.
Sometimes she could not find where to
place her feet; but she plunged upwards
recklessly at the risk of being forced backwards
by the resisting shoots and branches.
But as she pushed a vigorous hazel-tree
aside and swung herself up by its yielding
branches, she saw to her joy a

path, narrow, overgrown, and frequently
interrupted, but still a clue which showed
she was on the right track.

Jeanne stood still and took breath.
It was a moment of intense joy and
thankfulness. She felt sure that Yidonze
would find her out, and would seek herat
the Chateau. In one of his letters
Monsieur Hallez had bid her beware of the
photographer, unless she meant to listen
to him ; but now she was safe. He could
not yet have reached the Chateau, for,
though she had been some time making
her way through the bushes, it was nearly
a mile from the inn to Montcour
going round, as he must, by the bridge
beyond the church.

But it was a stiff climb yet before
she reached the top, there was such an
accumulation of stumps and brambles ;
and when at length she found herself
outside the fence at the top of
the cliff, Jeanne's face and hands were

bleeding, and her gown was torn in
many places. She had stopped halfway
up as soon as she felt herself completely
hidden, to put on her shoes and
stockings, but the brambles had cruelly
wounded her feet.

Jeanne had not lost her hardy
habits, and she easily got over the fence ;
then, before she approached the house,
she walked up and down the neglected
garden, wiping her face and trying
to give herself a more normal appearance.


But, spite of these efforts, when she
reached the kitchen, and Marie looked
up suddenly from the cap she was
getting ready, the woman let fall her
suffering-irons with a cry of dismay.

Sainte Yierge  holy Saint Lambert !
what has happened ? How pale Mademoiselle
is, and she has blood on her
cheek ! Why did Mademoiselle come home
when Baptiste had got the horses and

carriage ready at last to fetch her and
her baggage ? and now she has fallen
and hurt herself."

"I have scratched myself against some
bushes," said Jeanne; *' a little water will
make that all right ; but, Marie, there
are bad people about in the village; you
must not let anyone in to see me till
Monsieur Eugene and Louis come
back."

For Jeanne had been asking herself,
while she climbed the steep rock, how
she was to avoid Yidonze if he managed
to get admitted to Chateau Mont-cour.


Marie looked surprised.

"It is not likely I should do that,"
she said. " Mademoiselle is thinking of the
other day by the Mouse. Dame ! but I
thought Monsieur Eugene and Louis too
were within call ; and the gentleman said
he was an old friend of Mademoiselle,"
she added with an aggrieved air.

' This person will say the same, no
doubt" Jeanne said. " I mean that people
who want to get into houses usually take
some means like that of preventing suspicion.
I believe I had better not see
anyone, Marie; unless, indeed, it is a messenger
from Monsieur Eugene."

For though Jeanne felt sure her flight
from Dinant had been necessary, she was
anxious about her charge.

Marie said, '' Yes, yes," but she went
on suffering in silence. She liked Mademoiselle
Jeanne ; who could help it ? but
she did not care to take orders from her;
and was it likely that she who had been
femme de chambre to Madame de Matagne
herself, would be so ignorant of propriety
as to admit gentlemen visitors
to the Chateau in Monsieur Eugene's
absence.

But Jeanne had only just spoken intime.


With all Marie's caution, but for her

young mistress's warning she would probably
have allowed Baptiste to answer the
gate bell. Now, however, at its first sound,
she waddled down to the great gates and
reconnoitred thrush the wicket. She
saw a tall, and, as she thought, a very
handsome man, who spoke to her in a
pleasant voice.

Good day, my friend, I wish to see
Mademoiselle de Matagne," he said ;
Mademoiselle Jeanne, I mean."

Ah ! just like the other," Marie
muttered. '' I am sorry. Monsieur," she
said politely, for Vidonze's manner had
flattered her, " but Mademoiselle does
not receive visitors to-day."

Ah, but she will see me, I am an
old friend," he said, confidently.

This was too much for Marie.

No, no. Monsieur, it is not possible,"
and she shut down the wicket and waddled
back to the Chateau.

The gate-bell sounded again, and

Marie went back, grumbling to herself,
but she stood listening without opening
the wicket.

'' My good friend," she heard, " be so
kind as to tell Mademoiselle Jeanne that
Monsieur Antoine Vidonze waits for her
orders at the inn across the river ; and
say also that he hopes to stay there until
he has had the honour of seeing her."

CHAPTER XVI.

MADEMOISELLE HERKENNE COUNSELS.

"HDMOND did not see Mademoiselle 
kennel. Valerie brought back word
that the shop was closed for the night,
and that Mademoiselle had gone to
bed.

Elise had been shocked at her own
outbreak. She had felt so happy
at the sight of Vidonze that his abrupt
departure had dashed down all the
barriers she kept between her feelings
and the outside world, and she had rushed
up to Pauline's room, unconscious of what
she did.

By degrees she became aware of her

uncontrolled state, and closing the shop,
reckless of any disappointment to
customers, she retreated to her own room
to try and bring herself to reason.

At first she walked up and down like
a caged panther, as ready as that wild
animal to spring out and tear anything
that might oppose itself to the torrent of
her baulked passion ; but, as her strong
will asserted itself, passion sank and its
fumes abated ; she began to see things
more clearly again.

After all, she could not be sure where
Vidonze had gone, how many of his letters
be had read. He had torn two open,
and although she believed that the letter
with the strange post-mark brought news
of Jeanne, still it might be that Vidonze
had not gone to seek her, and to the
best of Elise's belief the girl was still in
Dinant. There was no use in speaking
to Edmund Depuis till she had some certain
news to tell.

She passed a miserable night, and the
next morning, when Edmund came into the
shop and asked if he could be of any service
to her, she thanked him graciously
and said that for the present she need
not trouble him. Still the day passed
feverishly; every now and then she pictured
to herself Antoine and Jeanne together,
for now that the girl knew Edmund
was lost to her would she reject Vidonze ?
It was so impossible to her to believe that
his love could be refused.

Elise watched Edmund keenly as he
passed in and out, and she felt sure that
he too was in suspense ; she had watched
him closely for some days, and she had
guessed at his search for Jeanne. More
than once she had felt a strange impulse
to speak to him, but she did not know how
to approach the subject.

Next morning brought her a letter.
She saw Yidonze's writing, and she tore
it open, but, as she read, her face contracted,

her eyes closed, till only a line
of gleaming darkness showed between
the lashes, and her lips drawn back
tightly disclosed the white teeth clenched
together.

Devil !" she muttered, '' she is a fair
devil ; but she shall not have him if I die
for it."

She flung herself back in her chair,
and clasped her forehead in her cold
fingers. Then she took up the letter and
read it again.

'' I have found Jeanne Lahaye, and you
will know how happy this makes me. I
told you I had a sure friend who would
warn me of her return to Chateau Montcour,
which is her home. She has come back quite
suddenly, it seems, but there is no getting
to see her ; and the old fool of a landlord
at the inn here says that she will
not be likely to admit visitors till
Monsieur de Matagne comes back. But
I cannot wait for this, I burn to see her.

Come to me at once, you are so clever
that your wits will devise a means of
bringing us together. It will be easy for
you to gain admittance by saying you bring
a message from the old man, De Matagne,
who is now near Bouvignes. Start as
soon as you receive this ; I count on you
as a true friend to help me."

She slowly folded up the letter ; and
then she sat waiting for Edmund Depuis.
She knew that he would go sketching on
so fine a morning.

*' Yes, I will see her, my friend," she
said, " but not to bear love-tokens from
you. Mon Dieu ! it is too much. She
shall do as I bid her, or she shall listen
to Edmund Depuis ; she has had her own
way too long."

At last she heard Edmund's footsteps,
and she came forward to the glass door
outwardly as calm and unmoved as if no
trouble was throbbing in her heart.

Good day. Monsieur Depuis," she

said ; " can you spare me five minutes
this mornings," he followed her into the
room. ** I have been looking through
the new views, and there has been
some mistake about the set you wished
for, they have been taken small instead
of large."

'' I had forgotten Mademoiselle. I will
look at them this evening and let you
know." He bowed, and was going out.

There is something else;" she went
forward and closed the door.

Edmund looked at her and he stood
still. The expression of hatred which still
lingered in her dark eyes made him
uneasy.

I have heard from Monsieur Vidonze
this morning," she said, in slow distinct
tones, " he tells me he has found Mademoiselle
Lahaye. I daresay you know he
has been seeking her all these months;
you know his love for her ; now he has
found her he will not let her go again."

VOL. III. p

'* What do you mean, Mademoiselle ?"
he said, with au angry impulse to throw
the blame of this disaster on the person
who revealed it. " Where is Mademoiselle
Lahaye?"

Elise looked at him with a smile of
triumph.

You may well ask. Monsieur Depuis.
When last you saw this young lady she
was not so far off as she is at presents
but your visit frightened her away from
Dinant. Do not look so startled. Monsieur
Depuis, I have not been so blind as ray
little friend upstairs was. Mademoiselle
Jeanne has gone off to the old lonely
Chateau on the hills by the Ambleve. Ah,
you did not know how near we were to
your Jeanne, either you or Monsieur
Yidonze, the day we drove there. She
is alone now, but Monsieur Vidonze will
not leave her alone long ; he will marry
her, Monsieur, whether she likes it or
not; lie has the law on his side, he hasher

grandmother's consent, yoa know.
Have you any objection ?"

Edmund was taken by surprise; he
answered yet more angrily, for he could
not quiet his own fears. "No priest would
marry them, you are talking nonsense,
Mademoiselle''

Very well, then there is no more to
be said." There was a pause, Edmund
stood frowning, and Mademoiselle Her-kennel
tapped the table carelessly with
her fingers. She looked up suddenly.
'' You have never been overland to me,
Monsieur Depuis, and I do not know
why I should go out of my way to
befriend you. Do you suppose," she
turned on him, her eyes gleaming with
the passion that was mastering her,
that I do not read you clearly, and the
sham you carry on with that little dupe
upstairs ? It is shameful to see a man
in the prime of his youth and vigour
selling himself to a woman he despises,

p 2

when if he had only a true man's
courage he might have happiness with
a girl who worships him, and who
would gladly defy the world for his
love."

Edmund stood stupefied by the passionate
words which seemed hurled on
him like missiles ; but this roused him.

What wild talk this is. Mademoiselle
? You are saying what is not
true."

Bah, bah !  Oh, mon Bleu .'" she
said, clasping her hands passionately,
and you pretend to love Jeanne Lahaye
and cannot read her better than that.
Do you not know that a woman's ' No '
in love always means ' Yes ?' Can I not
make you see that all this time your
Jeanne is fretting her heart because
you have not asked her to be yours?
A woman wants proofs, not words, and have
you ever said, ' Jeanne, I will give up my
comfortable home and all my wife's money

if you will go away with me where no one
knows our past ?' "

Silence," he said, sternly. " I tell
you again you say what is not true."

It is true. A woman knows a woman
best. I tell you, Jeanne Lahaye loves
you ; will sacrifice everything for you ;
and will you give up nothing for
her ? Ah, you do not love her."

She stopped, partly checked by her
own vehemence and partly because she
could not understand the look of horror
in his face. Her scorn increased, for she
thought he shrank from the sacrifice she
bad proposed.

'rafter all," she said, 'you have done
the worst. Monsieur Depuis. You, a decorous
married man, have pursued Jeanne
Lahaye, and have persevered in trying to
rouse her love for you. You have spoiled
the girl's life, and now you will leave her
to become the property of another man.
Poor deserted creature ! she is likely

enough to give Monsieur Vidonze a
hearing."

She paused again, but he stood silent.
Well, Monsieur," she said, with bitter
sarcasm, " I must ask pardon. I thought
you loved this girl, and would not care
to see her married; so I gave you a
warning of what is going on. I am mistaken.
Now I range myself on the side
of Monsieur Vidonze ; he asks me to join
him at once. 1 go, and it will be hard if
between us we cannot carry out his wishes."

Then with a sudden change of tone, she
said 

Has Monsieur any orders to give
me about the photographs, or can I
serve him in any way before I start for
Chateau Montcour ?"

He looked at her steadily. She had
dealt him so many home-thrusts that he
felt tongue-tied and conscience-stricken,
and yet, though he had no words for
self-justification, he felt he must defend

Jeanne's purity, lie must speak for her
to this black-tongued woman.

It does not signify what you say of me
but be careful how you speak of Mademoiselle
Lahaye. It is impossible for
you to understand her purity and innocence.
If I were the devil you would
make me, she would turn from me with
horror."

'* Innocence ! " she laughed ; " and you
believe in innocence. Do you not know
that a woman's innocence consists in not
being found out? "

Be silent," he spoke, sternly. " I
do not wish to judge you harshly, but
it is sad to hear a woman utter such
thoughts about one who is so pure and
good. I am ashamed to have listened to

you."

She did not answer him ; she shrank
a little back into the shadow of a curtained
recess behind her. Hardened as
she was, she could not bear to feel

that Edmund Depuis had read her
rightly.

But till he had left her and was on
the road to Anseremme  for he had
begun to paint again of late  he did not
find the key to Mademoiselle Herkenne's
strange behaviour; then Pauline's hints
came back, and he saw plainly that this
woman did care for Yidonze, and was
therefore willing to risk everything to prevent
a marriage between him and Jeanne.
He had never liked Mademoiselle Her-kennel;
he had thought her a proud, cold,
repelling woman, solely occupied with
herself and her duties. Only a vehement
hatred of Jeanne, or a vehement love for
the photographer, could explain this
sudden outbreak. This last thought made
his heart beat quickly. It was alarming
to think what her jealousy might urge
Mademoiselle Herkenne to do.

Edmund walked with bent head ; he
was humbled at last. Elise's words and

her suggestions had shown him the brink
on which he stood, on which he had
been standing blindfold ever since he
told himself that he had a right still to
love Jeanne.

He saw, too, the cruel selfishness of his
second interview. It would have been
easier for Jeanne to forget him, he argued,
if she thought him faithless, and yet he had
forced the knowledge of his love on her, and
had tried to kindle hers. He felt like a
criminal. He loved Jeanne as much as
ever, but he began at last to consider her
feelings as well as his own.

He did not think of his wife, or, to
speak more truly, he put the thought of
her aside ; it was humbling enough to
feel how he had sinned against Jeanne.
She had given him all the treasure of her
first love, and in return he had tried to turn
her love into a sin. She had told him this,
but her words had not then reached his
understanding. He shrank from approaching

her again, but there was no time to
lose, indeed he had no time for reflection ;
it seemed to him that the only plan was
to hurry to Chateau Montcour and bid
Jeanne place herself at once under the
protection either of the Cure, Monsieur
Hallez, or to return to Monsieur de
Matagne. Yes, he would start at once.

He turned and walked rapidly back to
Dinant. It would be wiser to say nothing
to either Jules or Pauline of his
intended journey, and, indeed, in his present
mood, he shrank from the sight of
his wife.

CHAPTER XVII.

AN AGREEMENT.

TT7HEN Monsieur Baconfoy came to
 look for Pauline he found her
sobbing as if she had never left off since
the night before, when she had gone to
bed at last against her will, crying out
that something must have happened to
Edmund.

Baconfoy had been troubled and puzzled
too yesterday by his cousin's disappearance.
First they had waited supper, and then
when it grew late, and still he did not come,
Baconfoy had gone out to make inquiries ;
he could only learn that Monsieur Dapuis

had been seen going to the railway-station.
In the meantime Valerie told her mistress
that some one had told her that Mademoiselle
Herkenne had gone away for a few days,
and that one of the young ladies at the
book-shop opposite had promised to see
to the business during her absence. Valerie
soon found that her mistress could
not listen to her ; so she went to Monsieur
Baconfoy,

'' Something has happened to Monsieur
Vidonze, Monsieur," she said, " Monsieur
Depuis had a talk with Mademoiselle
Herkenne in the morning, and I believe
they have gone off together to help him."

Baconfoy grunted in reply.

This idea seemed probable though not
satisfactory ; but Jules felt very uneasy
when next morning there was no letter
from Edmund.

He did not know what to do with
PauHne; she wept on and on as if she
would weep herself away. She made no

complaint, only once, when the kind
genial man was trying to cheer and comfort
her, she said sadly,

It is my own faulfc, I have no right
to expect anything else," and then she
went back to her tears.

Morbleu /" Baconfoy said, in his bluff
way, as he stood by the window, looking
now and then at the little figure crouched
in a corner of the sofa, '' this is too hard
for me, I cannot stand it ; I must fetch
Madame Boulotte."

He went quietly out of the room, and
bidding Valerie take care of her mistress,
and say that he would be back to
supper, he started by the next train for
Rim ay.

It need not be said, at this date, that Madame
Boulotte was a notable woman, a
housekeeper of the first rank ; when her
maid came and said a gentleman wished
to see her, she was deep in the mysteries
of plum-jam. Now everyone knows that

plum-jam, if it is to be clear and nofc like
glue, and, in short, worthy of such a
reputation as Madame Boulotte's, must
not be treated carelessly, and, above all,
must not be left to the mercy of a thickhead
like Marie, who would let it
boil till the best half of it remained
fixed to the sides and bottom of the .


Go away, Marie !" said Madame,
impatiently ; " send the gentleman away
too. It is impossible I can see anyone ?"

But, Madame, he is from Dinant ;
Madame Depuis is in trouble, and the
gentleman says only you can help her."

'' Is it Monsieur Depuis ?" She began
to listen.

No, Madame, it is the stout, handsome
gentleman, who sometimes comes to see
Madame."

Madame Boulotte's face was already
pink, but now it glowed, and each small
ear looked like a rosy shell.

'eh ! Man Dieu T she said, *' and the
jam  ? well it is done, give me a teacup,
Marie. Tell Monsieur I will be with him
directly."

And quickly the soft dimpled hands,
that looked as if they only took
care of one another, ladled out the
shining red conserve into the pots that
stood ready on the table ; then she dipped
her fingers into water, pulled her ribbed
apron off her well-fitting black gown,
gave a few touches with her fingers
to her hair, and went to the front room
to greet her visitor, as fresh as a
daisy.

'how charming she looks !" her
visitor thought, '' not a hair out of place,
so composed and tranquil ! surely a womanlike
this would never sob or do anything
foolish ? certainly all women are not alike."

And as he took the widow's soft
plump hand into his, Monsieur Baconfoy
pressed it gallantly, wishing it were but

possible to take a wife on trial for a week,
instead of venturing a life-time on an uncertainty.


Madame Boulotte was very gracious
and smiling in her welcome, but she
looked grave at his account of Pauline.
Then when he ended she shrugged her
shoulders.

"ifo7 Dieu,' she said, 'that is the
way with you men, you make women
fools, and then you keep them so, and
when they show their folly you cry out
for help. She is a silly little hysterical
chit, and if instead of pity you had given
her some cold water and left her to
herself, she would have got better at
once."

I yield, Madame, I yield she is all
you say; but the water  ma foi, no  I
am a fossil, Madame, but I could not throw
water over a woman"  he looked mischievous;
"only come back with me to
Dinant, and I will learn from your ways

with the poor child how to do better in
future''

Madame Boulotte was flattered, but she
tried to keep a grave face.

I cannot well leave home, I am expecting
Antoine," she said. '' He told me
he was going to Dinant, and would come
on here to spend some hours with me."

'* Aha 1" he rubbed his huge hands,
that is part of our mystery, Madame.
Your brother arrived at Dinant, and
departed again immediately  no one knows
why ; and now his housekeeper and
Depuis have also disappeared. Perhaps
you can help to unravel the mystery  it
is beyond me altogether ;" and Monsieur
Baconfoy looked helplessly at the
widow.

Bah  bah ! Monsieur, is it possible
that you have lived so long in the world,
and that you still believe in mysteries ?
they do not exist. If there is anything
wrong you may be sure that housekeeper

VOL. m. Q

BESIDE THE Ever.

of mj brother's is at the bottom of it.
I have never liked her ; she is a schemer.
I believe she will marry Antoine one of
these days."

* By-the-bye, has your brother ever
heard of Mademoiselle Lahaye ?"
Madame Boulotte shook her head.
*' No, and I do not think he ever will-between
ourselves. Monsieur, I fancy
Jeanne has gone into a convent ; and for
many reasons it was the wisest thing she
could do. Well, then, if there is no
chance of seeing Antoine here, I will go
with you."

"I thank you Madame, a thousand
times, it is most kind."

While Madame Boulotte went to make
her preparations. Monsieur Baconfoy felt
in an unusual state of excitement; there
was even a certain fluttering at his heart that
he had not before observed ; and instead of
sitting down and quietly waiting till the
lady appeared, he walked up and down

the dainty little room singing softly toto
himself  actually singing, a practice
which he had scarcely indulged in since
he was a boy.

But, as the opening of a door overhead
gave warning of her approach, his
singing ceased, and a look of perplexity
crossed his usually tranquil face.

He had not for years past taken sole
charge of a lady, and he did not feel quite
fitted for the post; but when Madame
Boulotte at last came down in her new
autumn bonnet, the black lace made such
a charming frame to her face, and the
bunch of wheat ears on one side was
in such admirable contrast to the graceful
black drapery round her shoulders, that
he forgot everything in the enjoyment
of contemplating so pleasant a picture.

What a handsome creature she must
have been!" he said to himself. "But
better now than when she was younger 
yes, there is no doubt  your mellow apple

is far preferable to tart June fruit. Madame,"
he said, "your bonnet is too
charming. It is surely from Paris."

"Yes, Monsieur, the bonnet is from
Paris ; but after all it is only a bonnet."
She tossed her head as much as to say,
Have you no praise for the face inside
it."

'' Mon Dieu thought Baconfoy, "what
have I said wrong ? I thought that was
the right thing to say."

However the widow was soon all smiles
again, and by the time they reached Di-nant
Monsieur Jules had quite forgotten
Pauline and her troubles.

Madame," he said, impressively, as he
handed her from the carriage, " Madame,
so pleasant a journey might have gone on
for ever before I should have wished to
stop."

Madame Boulotte smiled; she remembered
that there were plenty of ears and
eyes around them.

Monsieur is poetical," sbe said, with
a laugh ; " and I am so prosaic as to
feel that it is just supper-time;" but at
the same time she gave him so charming
a smile that he was satisfied.

When Pauline saw the widow coming
in at the door, she flew to her, and
laying her head on Madame Boulotte's
plump shoulder, she burst into fresh
tears, clinging to her as if she were her
mother.

It did Baconfoy's heart good, however,
to note that the widow said no word about
cold water, nor did she either lecture or
leave Pauline to herself. Instead, she folded
her in a motherly embrace, and drawing
her to the sofa sat down beside the poor
girl, and gently kissed her and cooed over
her, till gradually Pauline's sobs ceased.
Then the widow nodded her dismissal to
Baconfoy.

Come back to supper in half an hour,"
she said.

He went to smoke a cigar on the bridge.
*' Mon Bleu /" he said, as he leaned over
the parapet, " what the devil is coming
to you, Jules, that you should have turned
into a squire of dames ? it is a folly. But
yet, what a wonderful woman this is ;
while I stood looking at that poor child,
feeling that I would give all I had to comfort
her, she only grew worse ; and here
comes Madame Boulotte, who does not profess
to care for her, and she is at once mistress
of the situation. I believe she will get
Pauline all right by supper-time. It was,
perhaps, the kissing ; ma foi ! there she
has the advantage over her," and then he
found himself reflecting on those kisses,
and he blushed like a schoolboy.

Pauline was at least calm and quiet
when supper-time came, and after Madame
Boulotte had herself helped her to bed,
the widow came back to Monsieur Baconfoy
with a troubled face.

"Monsieur," she said, as she seated

herself, " are you very fond of your cousin
Edmund?"

"Yes, Madame, I do love the boy
dearly ; he is unfortunately the only
person who has any claim on me for
fondness." He gave her a glance which
he intended to be full of meaning.

"Well," she said, throwing her head
back, and Baconfoy thought how well this
action became her, " it is not pleasant to
own one has been wrong, but I must do
so. I too liked him ; now. Monsieur, I
believe that your cousin is a villain, and
that the poor little Pauline is an angel."

Baconfoy reddened; he drew himself
up, and his lips closed tightly.

*' Villain is a strong word, Madame, and
your angel is after all a dear little goose
sometimes."

Monsieur," the widow too sat upright,
her clasped hands looking very white and
charming on her black silk lap, " I have
been married myself, and I know what a

woman can bear. Mon DieuP her eyes
flashed, "if my husband had treated meas
that poor child has been treated,
I  I should have left him  I should have
had an act of separation," she clenched
her right hand.

"Would she have scratched him?"
thought Baconfoy, his eyes travelled to
the widow's pink nails, and he shivered
a little.

Pauline has been telling tales of her
husband, has she ?" he said severely.

"No, Monsieur, she has not complained,
but I have questioned her closely.
It is quite clear to me that this acquaintance
of hers made at the Hospice, this
Jeanne, is Jeanne Lahaye, and your precious
cousin knew it too ; and while this
poor child has been racking her brains to
know how she has vexed her husband,
it has not been her fault at all ; the truth
is thatched is in love with this girl, of whom
he ought not even to think. There, Monsieur,

there is your mystery' she flung
out her hand in disdain.

Baconfoy's brain turned round ; Pauline
had spoken to him of her friend Jeanne,
and he had puzzled over the striking
change in Edmund, yet it had never occurred
to him to connect the two things.
Truly, he thought, Madame Boulotte was
a wonderful creature.

He bowed profoundly.

Madame, you are a witch ; if this
is so, it is a bad affair, but still it
is not certain. After all," he said,
hesitatingly, *'if the poor fellow did love
Mam'zelle Jeanne so dearly, it was but
natural that the sight of her  if he did see
her  should upset him for a while."

Madame Boulotte instantly looked a
picture of matronly severity.

Monsieur. Baconfoy, I am surprised,
do you then take Edmund's part ? A man
should love his wife ; it is his duty. Is it
not so ?"

It had never occurred to Madame Boulotte,
who had been married at sixteen
to a man of sixty, to love her husband,
but then she was judging others, not
herself, and this, of course, made a great
difference. She looked so displeased, that
Baconfoy felt he was " treading on eggs."

It is very sad, no, I do not take his
part; how could I against you?" This
in his most insinuating manner. '* Come,
come, Madame, you are too tender-hearted
to judge poor Edmund harshly,"  he
crossed over to the sofa and sat down
beside her, though he felt more nervous
at the proceeding than he had ever felt
in his life  "But  but is it possible,
Madame, you do not see that you are more
tome than Edmund Depuis or  or anyone
else." He laid his hand almost timidly on
her plump fingers.

She smiled most graciously, and bent
her head, but then she shook it gently,
and got up from the sofa.

'' I can only think of that poor child
upstairs. Help me, Monsieur, to give her
back her husband, and then  then  well,
we will finish our talk when it is not quite
so late in the evening."

She curtseyed, waved her hand, and left
the room before Baconfoy had made up
his mind how to detain her.

CHAPTER XVIII.

COALS OF Fire'*

/LD Jacques Cajot was sitting in doors
 this morning. The sun was glittering
on the Ambleve ; but to the old man
who now walked feebly, and whose blood
flowed yet more slowly, the bright air felt
chill and threatened rheumatism. Sitting
in doors, he had noted with displeased
eyes that Charles was having a long talk
below the window with the photographer.
Old Jacques seemed dull and
insensible to all that passed around him,
but the faculty of observation, for which
he had been remarkable, still remained.

He remembered that he had never liked
this photographer, and this morning
Barbe, the Curate's housekeeper, had
brought Monsieur Jacques a present of
balm-leaves, and had stayed for a talk.
She had really come to tell him a startling
piece of news.

She had heard that the red-bearded
stranger had gone up to Chateau Montcour
and had been refused admittance, though he
had said he was an old friend of Mademoiselle
Jeanne's ; it was very strange.
Barbe had gone away shaking her head. She
hoped all was well, bub it would be a good
thing, she thought, when Monsieur Eugene
returned to the Chateau.

And now Jacques sat with his head on
his breast, slowly piecing together, as an
old woman pieces the patterns of her patchwork,
the many little tokens which seemed
to connect the photographer with Mademoiselle
Jeanne. It was strange that as
soon as he arrived she should have gone

away from the Coq door in that sudden
manner, without even saying Good-bye,
sending Baptiste for her luggage and to
pay her reckoning.

''I do not like it," Jacques thought,
"I will not have Charles talk so
much with that man, Charles is young
and giddy, and he may be led astray;
he has gone about this morning smiling
and rubbing his hands without cause. I
am not easy in my mind. This stranger
may mean mischief to Mademoiselle
Jeanne."

He raised his head and listened. He
could just distinguish a sound of wheels ;
then a carriage came in sight, and stopped
before the inn. The old man had long
ago given up the habit of going forward
to receive guests ; but his eyes brightened
with almost vivid interest when he saw
Charles hand out a lady, the only person
in the carriage.

Jacques, however, did not like ladies who

travelled alone, and he saw that this one
had no more luggage than the small bag
she carried in her hand. Something in
her figure recalled a memory, but from
where he sat he could not make out her
face. She passed into the house, and
Jacques sat still thinking.

*' Charles does not get wiser," he shook
his head ; " he welcomed that woman as
if she was a well-to-do traveller." He
closed his eyes till the sound of wheels
roused him again.

This carriage stopped at the other door
round the angle of the house; but very
soon Auguste came down the steps just
above the vine arbour.

He was frowning, and his lower lip was
pushed out. Jacques knew by this that
something was going wrong. But he
did not question Auguste, he knew that
his brother was coming to seek counsel
of him. He only turned his least deaf ear
towards him.

<c There is something wrong, my
brother; something I do not understand,"
Auguste spoke sulkily, "first
comes this red-bearded vaurien with
whom the foolish Charles is besotted,
and next comes that tall woman who
came in the summer, and of whom I
thought no good even then. She asked
for this Monsieur Antoine, and they
are now shut up together in the salon.
And now, this minute, has arrived the
pleasant-faced young man who came
with these two in the summer ; but
this time he has not his wife with him.
Well, 1 receive him, and I am telling
him his friends are upstairs, when that
foolish Charles says :

* It is impossible he can go there.
Monsieur and Madame desire to be left
alone ;' they cannot be disturbed ; and
my new arrival cries out, in a hurried
way :

' I too wish to be alone. You need

not speak of my coming to your other
guests;' and then he orders supper to
be served privately in the little salle. All
this is insupportable, my brother. Secrets
mysteries; such things never happened
in this house before."

He thrust his hands behind him,
and stood doggedly looking at the
river.

Jacques thought these two arrivals
mysterious, but he smiled at his brother's
indignation.

'' It is possible that this last one is
not after all a friend of the others," he
said ; '' we see here how people strike
up a chance acquaintance of a few days
which dies away again. This meeting is
probably an accident."

Auguste shook his head.

There is something in it," he said,
or this last one would not have looked so
angry ; besides, he too asked me the best
way of reaching the Chateau, and that

VOL. III. K

was also your photographer's first question.
Mon Bleu! it is a most strange
affair. Listen here, Jacques, I believe they
both want to marry Mademoiselle Jeanne."

Jacques smiled, as he often did at his
rough brother's grievances.

Be sure the lady is not of their opinion,
my friend. You have only to be patient,
Auguste, and the meaning of all this
will appear ; meantime Mademoiselle
Jeanne is quite safe, for Barbe says she
refuses to see visitors in Monsieur Eugene's
absence ; but there is the bell, Auguste,
you must not depend on Charles."

Mademoiselle Herkenne had seen edmund
Depuis at the station at Comblain,
and had carefully avoided him. She had
rapidly secured a carriage, and had arrived
first at the Coq door. His appearance,
however, had raised her spirits; it
was plain, she thought, that he had
taken her advice, and meant to carry
Jeanne away from the Chateau.

She had now a decided proof to offer to
Antoine Vidonze, supposing that her own
eloquence failed.

Charles Cajot was in a flutter of delight
as he ushered her up to the salon. Monsieur
Antoine, as Yidonze called himself
at the inn, had given him notice of the
lady's arrival, and Charles so keenly relished
having a secret all to himself now that he
had got used to it, that he said not a word
to the elder brothers, though it was with
difficulty he kept it to himself; he could
hardly contain his satisfaction at knowing
more than they did, and at the prospect
of seeing again the tall, goddess-like
creature who had seemed to him fit to be
worshipped.

Else walked before him haughtily, she
thought Vidonze might have received her
himself, and when Charles threw open the
door of the salon, she saw that it was
empty, and she frowned.

Tell Monsieur Antoine, the tall gentler

2

man who is staying here, I am waiting
for him' she said, and then she seated
herself. Charles bowed low.

She is divine. What eyes ! What a
figure ! An empress must be like
that," and he sighed with admiration.


Yidonze was not far off; he had been
so impatient for Mademoiselle Herkenne's
arrival that he had lingered about the inn
all the morning. He did not share Monsieur
Baconfoy's distrust of women, but he
had no reverence for them. His housekeeper
was the first woman whose mental
attributes had impressed him ; the first
to whom he had ever looked for help or
counsel. His feelings for Jeanne Lahaye
had been of an entirely opposite nature.
And Mademoiselle Herkenne's reserve had
helped his belief in her ; he had such unbounded
confidence in her resources, that
he felt she would either plead his cause
successfully with Jeanne, or that she voulu

win him a way to plead for himself.

Such meetings as this one between Elise
and the photographer are happening everyday
; but the contrast between the man's
excitement as he hurried upstairs to pave,
as he thought, the way to his long-sought
happiness, and the mixture of scorn and
passionate love in the woman who sat
waiting to receive him, promised a not
easy carrying out of the plan which, to
Vidonze's mind, seemed already half
accomplished.

Still he knew enough of women to
be aware that Mademoiselle Herkenne
must be soothed and flattered ; and the
sight of her troubled face confirmed this
feeling.

How kind you are to come at once !"
he said, warmly shaking her hand ; " how
can I thank you enough. You are the
best friend I ever had. But there is no
friend like a woman."

She sat still, but her heart beat

thick with pleasure. She gave him a
grateful smile.

"You must tell me. Monsieur, why
you sent for me? What have you to
tell me''

This was not the answer he wanted,
and his manner changed.

It is for you to tell me what I shall
do," he said ; " I have already told you all
I can ; I have at last found Jeanne Lahaye,
and no one knows better than you do how
anxiously all this time I have looked
for her. Ma foi ! if I had not been
sharp enough to employ spies I might
have gone on for months longer." He
seemed to expect her applause, but as she
remained silent he went on. " Well, I
have called at the Chateau over there,"
he pointed towards Montcour, " and she
has refused to see me. I expected this,
so it counts for nothing. Now, look here.
Mademoiselle, when we parted some time
ago, I spoke foolishly to Jeanne ; I was

rough and impatient  too impetuous a
lover, I suppose' he laughed, " and the
girl was frightened. I want you to tell
her that this was the effect of my deep
love for her, but that I have seen my
folly, and that if she will only give me
another hearing she shall find me the gentlest
and the most devoted of lovers,
willing to do all she wishes ; but  " a
glance at his listener's face had shown
him her lips curled in intense scorn 
'why am I teaching you when you know
so much better than I do what to do and
what to say?" he said impatiently.

Mademoiselle Elise sat thinking. She
did not look up, she feared her secret
might creep into her eyes and betray her
to this man whom she loved so passionately,
and who was stabbing her by
every word he spoke ; and to betray
herself  while he was so full of love for
Jeanne  would be, her keen wisdom told
her, the greatest folly of her life.

When she spoke her voice was pleasant
and softer than usual.

'' On the contrary, Monsieur, it seems
to me that you quite know how to win
a woman if she is to be won ; but I fear
Mademoiselle Jeanne has already given
her love to some one else."

Vidonze stared at her, then he said,
roughly, and his face grew flaming red ;
What do you know about her, have you
been listening to my sister's gossip ?"

Elise drew herself up.

I have not seen Madame Boulotte,"
she said, coldly.

I beg your pardon," he tried to
speak soothingly, " but you have plainly
heard something ; what have you heard ?
You have never seen Mademoiselle La-laye,
and you know nothing about her."

She looked at him  now she could
smile pleasantly  with calm pity at the
ruffled face, which grew at last furious
under her steady glance.

"What do you mean, what do you
know ?" he said, rudely ; " I like plain
speaking."

You must tell me where to begin,
Monsieur. Shall I talk about the young
lady herself? or about her meetings with
Monsieur Edmund Depuis ?"

He flung away from her impetuously,
and threw up his arms.

Women are all alike," he said ; " 1
see you love scandal as well as the rest
do. I thought you were above it."

Monsieur," she said, firmly, " please
to understand that in all I say I relate
facts, plain facts. I myself saw Jeanne
Lahaye go up to Edmund Depuis in the
High Street of Dinant. He shrank from
her at first, but then they went away
together. Their next meeting was in the
house where she lived  for she has been
living lately beside the Mouse, near
Bouvignes  and I have met him constantly
coming from the direction of her

house, and to keep matters quiet she
Las formed a friendship with my poor
little friend, Madame Depuis, who has
actually asked her to come and see
her."

She stopped, for Yidonze suddenly
grasped her wrist with a force that hurt
her, but she did not move.

"And you knew that Jeanne was so
near and you did not at once summon
me?"

Why should I ? I saw enough to
show me that the girl is not worth your
love. Why should I give you the pain of
witnessing her unworthy conduct ? "

Vidonze let go her hand. " Pardon
me  you surprised me ;" he stood biting
his lip ; he tried to think, but the shock
had sent the blood to his brain, and he
felt giddy and confused.

There is a mistake somewhere," he
said at last, " you do not understand
Jeanne Lahaye. She is not clever, like

you, but she is true. She would not rob
another woman of her husband's love. I
can see it all. She knew Depuis formerly,
aDd she was pleased to see her old friend
again. Why should she not visit his
wife, I ask you ? What is the crime in
this ? "

He looked sternly at her.

That is what I asked myself. Monsieur
; but after I had seen the meeting
between Monsieur Depuis and Mademoiselle
Lahaye, Madame Depuis came to mein
great trouble, and said her friend refused
to visit her."

Vidonze hesitated, then he said 

There is nothing in that. Jeanne is ina
different position now, and she might feel
a difficulty in visiting Madame Depuis.
Old De Matagne might object ; there area
hundred reasons besides. If you knew
Jeanne as well as T do, you would not think
it likely that she could care for that silly,
little woman."

Mademoiselle Herkenne shrugged her
shoulders.

'ras you will. I have done my duty,
Monsieur. I could not let you blindly
offer yourself to a woman who loves
another man, and who receives him,
though he is married. My wish was to
spare you disappointment'* She had
determined not to speak of Edmund's
arrival at the inn ; it would come as a fresh
shock when Yidonze found it out himself.

The photographer stood gnawing at his
moustache. He believed far more of his
housekeeper's story than he chose to show ;
but the old lawless spirit which since his
prosperity had been kept in check by external
causes, now broke loose. He turned
suddenly on Mademoiselle Herkenne.

Do not you be faint-hearted," he said,
'' and I must win. She will marry me,
if it be only to be revenged on Depuis.
I count on you as my best friend in the
affair. You can easily get to see her by

saying you come from the old man at
Bouvignes, say he is ill. Jeanne may
refuse to listen to me at first, but remember
I have her grandmother's consent
to marry her. You and I together
should be able to manage a girl." He
laughed, as though he meant only a joke ;
but Elise saw a fierce, determined gleam
in his eyes. Next minute he had taken
her hand. He pressed it between his.
My good, true friend," he said, " I
depend wholly on you in this affair  you
will go to the Chateau early tomorrow,
and you will see her, and all will be
arranged."

She smiled, but he could not understand
her silence ; he wished he could send herat
once to see Jeanne ; but he knew she
must have rest and refreshment, and also
time for thought ; he said this as he left
her.

Elise sat for some minutes motionless,
with a scowl on her dark face ; but this

soon changed into a look of despair.

*' Will nothing cure him of this mad
folly ?" she thought. '' There is yet the
hope that Edmund Depuis may win Jeanne
to his wish ; surely that will turn Antoine's
love to hate." And as she recalled the
way in which he had spoken of Jeanne,
she felt that her own hatred to the o:irl
was as strong as her love for him.

Some way shall be found to get rid
of her," she said ; " it is my last chance
for happiness. I will run any risk."

CHAPTER XIX.

A CHOICE.

A T first the change of scene, and then
 the excitement of her escape from
Vidonze, had helped Jeanne against her
sorrow. Seeing the familiar faces too in
the village, and the joy that her return
brought to them, had warmed and cheered
her. She had been to see every part of
the grounds, and she had lectured Baptiste
about his neglect of the garden, and had
seen that the rooms were fit to receive
Monsieur Eugene, and now that all was
ready, she felt dull and listless ; life
stretched itself out before her in unbroken

monotony, with no earthly hope to draw
her onward.

She almost smiled at her fear of Vidonze,
but her dislike to him was unaltered,
it was so intense that she felt she could
not bear even to see him, and it would
be terrible to have to listen to his love.
She had never forgotten his tyrannical
conduct at their last meeting, but Jeanne
had grown much older since then ; association
with Mademoiselle de Matagne
and her friends, and also contact with
the outside world, had developed her
judgment, and she asked herself if it
were likely that Vidonze would persist
in persecuting her now that she had
shown her dislike so plainly. For she
had taken no notice of his message ; she
thought silence signified refusal, and that
in her solitary position it was better not
to be drawn into any negotiation with such
a man as the photographer.

So this day had gone on wearily and

drearily. She was walking up and down
her favourite path on the edge of the
cliff, the trees became barer every day
now as the leaves dropped from them,
and she got frequent glimpses of the river,
sparkling over its grey stones as it swept
under the dark cliff beyond the Chateau.

As she turned to the house again she
saw Marie coming towards her.

The woman's broad face looked even
broader than usual, she was grinning with
delight.

'' Mademoiselle has plenty of visitors
to-day," she said ; ' there has been the
one who calls himself Monsieur Antoine
Vidonze ; and then some time after I
sent him away, there comes that other
who came when we were at Dinant.
Man Dieu ! he was disturbed when he
found he could not see Mademoiselle ;
he said it was for Mademoiselle's business,
not his own ; poor gentleman ! he
begged so hard ; he is not so fine a man

VOL. ill. 8

as the other, but he seems more amiable ;
I was sorry to send him away."

"You could do nothing else;" but
Jeanne felt that a fresh gloom had fallen
on her sadness. Edmund had broken
his promise, and was trying to see her ;
and now where could she hope to
find peace or safety ? " Life is over
for me," she thought; "so long as
I live I add to that poor wife's unhappiness,
and I suppose I am a constant
disappointment to Monsieur Eugene,
and yet I could not marry Monsieur
Raoul ; poor little Pauline has taught me
how wretched a marriage is where there is
no love."

As she walked up and down she thought
she would ask Monsieur Hallez to come
to Chateau Montcour ; he had probably
by this time written to her to Dinant ;
but so much had happened lately that
could not be discussed in writing, and she
clung to the good priest as if he were

really her father ; yes, she would write to
him, he was her only adviser now.

If Monsieur Eugene were less sensitive
I would tell him too," she thought,
but it would make him ill if he knew how
really unhappy I am."

Meantime Elise Herkenne had crossed
the bridge, and had taken the road which
led up to the Chateau. Her face
showed no sign of her fiery interview
with Yidonze, except that perhaps her
lips were more tightly shut, her nostrils
more dilated than usual. She kept her
eyes half closed while she mounted the
hill, projecting her thoughts forward into
the coming interview. It would be a difficult
affair to manage, but in a matter of
calculation or intrigue Elise loved difficulty;
she knew that she had the special faculty
of threading her way through perplexities
which would baffle a simpler mind.

She had seen Edmund Depuis leave thes

2

inn, and, though he had not returned,
she felt sure, from her talk with Charles
Cajot, that he would not be admitted at
Chateau Montcour; but his presence in
the village gave her additional strength
against Jeanne. Surely, if she painted on
one side the vehemence of Yidonze's pursuit,
and the reckless measures of which
he was capable ; and then pleaded edmund's
love, and showed how utterly
impossible it was that he could ever be
happy with Pauline, Jeanne would agree
to fly with her lover; his coming told
Mademoiselle Herkenne that she had
been right, and that Edmund's words
to her had been mere words after
all.

'* Fear and love," she said, " are the
two strongest motives with a woman, and
this girl must yield when they are both
used to move her."

But she looked calm and unruffled when
Marie's blinking green eyes showed

through the wicket in answer to her
summons.

I have come from Dinant," she said ;
'* Monsieur de Matagne is very ill, and I
have a message from him to Mademoiselle."


She did not ask to enter, she felt so
sure that Jeanne would admit her when
she heard her news.

'' 111 ! Mon Bleu ! and we left him
so much better ! When did he grow
worse ?" the old servant said eagerly,
opening the gate.

"Yesterday; but do not delay, the
doctor told me I must not lose a minute
in telling Mademoiselle."

EUse had spoken in the broad Walloon
dialect used by working people,
and Marie believed her to be the doctor's
servant.

She wrung her hands in dismay.

"Ah! the misery of it!" she said;
and only that stupid Ellie to

make Lis thanes ! I ought never to
have left him, it was a mad idea."

*' You lose time," said Elise. " Do go
and tell Mademoiselle Jeanne."

*' Well, then, come with me, that will
save it, and you can tell your news yourself
to Mam'zelle Jeanne."

She waddled on in front of her
visitor. Jeanne was still pacing up
and down. She stopped and looked
surprised.

Marie pushed forward.

"There is bad news. Monsieur Eugene
is ill," she said, " and the doctor has
sent to tell Mademoiselle."

You can go," Elise said to the servant
; " my message is for Mademoiselle
de Matagne herself."

She spoke with such profound respect
that Marie departed, and Jeanne recovered
from her first shock of surprise
at seeing the photographer's shop-woman.


Is he very ill ?" she said.

'* Yes, Mademoiselle." Elise walked on
as she spoke, though they were already
at some distance from the house. '' At
least, no," she said, abruptly, " I do not
come from Monsieur de Matagne. I
come as a friend to give you warning of
danger."

She gave Jeanne a friendly smile. She
saw that she looked displeased.

 Why did you begin with a falsehood ?"
said Jeanne, firmly : " and what can you
have to do with me ?"

"You will see when I have told you."
Else spoke very calmly. " You are in
danger. Mademoiselle. There is a man
over there," she nodded across the river,
you know him ; he has sworn that he
will never rest till you are his wife, either
by fair means or foul."

Jeanne could not guess the woman's
drift, but this statement seemed to her
false and exaggerated.

You talk nonsense," she said. " I
suppose you are speaking of Monsieur
Vidonze, and he knows that I shall never
marry him ; he knew it long ago."

Elise smiled. It was pleasant to hear
this, and she felt almost grateful to Jeanne
for the admission.

"You do not know him as I do,"
she said ; " he tells me that he has
your grandmother's consent, and that he
will marry you. What he says he will
do. He sent for me that I might help
him, and it was he who suggested the
plan of Monsieur de Matagne's message,
though T could have got in without
that," she said, scornfully ; 'Mie wanted
me to contrive some way in which he
might meet you face to face ; but now
I am here I see how easily he can meet
you if he chooses," and she pointed to
the low fence which divided the farthest
end of the grounds from the cliffs beyond.
You need not be afraid," for she saw

JeaDDO look earnestly at the fence. " I
am not going to betray you to Monsieur
Vidonze ; on the contrary, I would much
rather help you'"

Thank you." Jeanne felt again the
strong repugnance which had seized her
each time that she had met Mademoiselle
Herkenne; "but I do not want help.
Monsieur Yidonze is too wise to get
himself into trouble by molesting me.
I have refused to see him." she said
this calmly, but she trembled inwardly at
the bare thought of meeting Vidonze face
to face.

You are courageous, Mademoiselle?
but courage is foolhardiness when it
goes too far. I ask you what is to
hinder a determined man like Monsieur
Yidonze from climbing that fence and
forcing you to go away with him. He
has the law on his side ; remember your
grandmother gave her consent. He will
easily find a priest to perform the ceremony,"

she laughed, " and then, once
married to him, what help have you  ?"

Hush," said Jeanne; 'you had better
go away. I do not wish to listen to you."

But Eh'se did not pause. " You are his
wife to do as he pleases with."

Stay," for Jeanne had turned from
her, and was walking towards the house,
there is an easy way of escape from him,
Mademoiselle"  she got in front of Jeanne
and went on, speaking quickly  "that
is what I have come to tell you. There
is one who loves you just as passionately
as Yidonze does, and far more truly.
That man is here, close by. He has
left wife and fortune for your sake. Go
with him at once ; then you will be forever
free from Yidonze, and you will be as
happy as the day is long. Happy ! Mon
Dieu ! if such joy were offered to me
I would take it without a moment's
delay."

How dare you talk to me in this

way? let me pass," said Jeanne; "you
are a wicked woman, and you have no
right to come here and insult me."

Else put her hand on the girl's arm,
and as Jeanne tried to free herself she
tightened her grasp.

Pardon, Mademoiselle," she said,
** but I think you do not see how matters
stand. 1 am your true friend. Edmund
Depuis has deserted his wife, and he cannot
return to her. He is an outcast for
your sake. Surely you will have pity on
him. Surely you will reward the faithful
love which has given up all for you."

Hush, hush," said Jeanne, " you are
quite mistaken; it is impossible that I
can be anything to Monsieur Depuis,
and you insult me by talking such
shameless words. Leave me," she said,
sternly, " and let me never see you
again."

So terrible a light shone in her visitor's
eyes that Jeanne had almost cried out

for Marie, but self-command came back.
The kitchen was on the other side of the
Chateau, looking towards the road. Marie
could not hear her outcry, and by showing
fear she should lose her control over
this wild woman.

I am going"  Elise spoke quietly, but
her face had lost its repose ; strong
twitches of passion showed at the corners
of her mouth, and her eyebrows met ina
fierce frown, '' but you shall hear the
truth first, Jeanne Lahaye. Who are
you, a mere peasant, that you should
be raised to ease and luxury, and spoil
the lives of others by winning the love
that is theirs by right ? Yes, you have
spoiled my life, and the life of Edmund's
wife ; but for your pale, cold face Antoine
Yidonze would be mine now. I
tell you, you pale-faced hypocrite, that
you have never even dreamed of the
love I have lavished on him. Yes, you
are a hypocrite. One day you have kissed

and fondled that poor little fool Pauline,
and won her heart out of her body, and
the next you have met her husband in
secret. Yes, yes ; I know you thoroughly.
You prefer that Edmund Dapuis should
stay with his wife, it avoids scandal ; but
he is your lover for all that, you have
turned his heart away from his wife, and
you shall leave Chateau Montcour with
him, or I will proclaim publicly that you
love him. Will you go with him, or will
you not ?" Her words poured out at last
in a torrent of fury.

Let me go."

Jeanne wrenched her arm away, but
before she could escape Elise's arms had
closed round her like a vice, and were
quickly drawing her in among the thin
bushes, at this point the only fence above
the perpendicular descent to the river.
Jeanne struggled, but she could not free
herself. She tried to drag her adversary
back with her on to the path, but Mademoiselle

Herkenne stood firm, and Jeanne
saw that she meant to push her over the
edge. They were well matched for strength,
but Jeanne was only defending herself,
and Else was putting out all her power to
conquer. Suddenly she lifted Jeanne
off her feet  but the girl clung tightly
round her neck, and throwing all her
weight forward she forced her adversary
to the ground  she fell also, shrieking
loudly for help. Mademoiselle Her-kennel
sprang quickly to her feet, and
seized Jeanne by the shoulders. She
strove to drag her to the edge of the
cliff, but Jeanne grasped at the bushes
near her, and clung with the strength of
despair. She had fallen a short way from
the edge  her head was dizzy with her
heavy fall, and she felt that her enemy
would soon overpower her. All at once
Mademoiselle Herkenne's hold on her
arms slightly loosened  Jeanne gave a long,
despairing shriek. Then her eyes closed.

Elise's quick ears had heard sounds
near them ; she instantly loosened her

grasp and rose to her feet Then

came hasty footsteps running, and an outcry
of surprise. Jeanne felt herself raised
up in some one's arms, and she rallied
from the stupor that had overcome her 
she opened her eyes  Mademoiselle Her-kennel
had disappeared, and Edmund
Depuis, very pale and breathless, was
standing beside her.

'' Edmund ! you?" she said, faintly.

Jeanne tried to move, but she could not
without Edmund's help, her head reeled,
everything seemed to be fading away,
but she was unwilling to lean on him,
and he saw it. He drew her gently to
the nearest tree, and seated her against it."

*' Rest there," he said, " till I bring
help."

In a few minutes he came back,
carrying a chair and a glass of water,
while Marie followed, full of exclamations.

It was a good thing for your mistress,"
Edmund said, " that I happened to
be near ; that mad woman was trying to
force her over the diff."

Jeanne looked at him gratefully. She
tried hard not to show how much she
was suffering.

"Oh, mon Dieu ! Oh, my poor lamb !
Oh, Holy Virgin ! her face is bleeding."

Marie was noisy with fear and sympathy
; but Edmund told her the first
things to be done was to send for the
doctor, while he took her mistress to the
bouse.

As soon as she was gone, Jeanne looked
at Edmund.

"Thank you," she said, faintly; "I
believe you have saved my life."

You would perhaps have saved yourself,
Jeanne," he said, earnestly. " I
risked making you angry with me by
coming this morning ; but, on my honour,
I only came to warn you against that

fiend of a woman. She had told me
that mischief was plotted against you,
and I came to warn you to go away
from this place. I thought only of annoyance
to you ; I did not dread such
a danger as this."

Thank you ; I believe you." Bd-
mont's heart swelled as he saw the old
sweetness come back to her eyes as she
looked at him. *' I might have known
you would not have come without cause."
She spoke slowly and with an effort ; the
numbness was passing away, but she
was still faint, and her whole body was
wrenched with pain.

He saw how much she was suffering,
and he hesitated to speak ; but this was
their last meeting. He had sworn to
himself that, till he could look on her
sweet face calmly  and he thought this
could never be  he would never see her
again  he must speak now.

I will leave you as soon as the doctor

VOL. III. T

comes," he said ; " this is the only chance
I have of speaking. Will you tell me you
forgive me, Jeanne, for all I have caused
you to suffer ? I have been cruel to you
unpardonable ; but you are so noble,
Jeanne, so generous, that you will have
pity."

She did not speak, but tears fell fast
from her half-closed eyes.

' I will try to do all you asked me,
Jeanne," he said; "it will be hard, but
I deserve hardness. May I kiss this hand
once more ?"

She gave him her hand, and he kissed
it as one might kiss the hand of a dying
person ; and then Jeanne's strength gave
way, and she lost consciousness

When Marie came with a woman she had
summoned to help her, she met Monsieur
Depuis running wildly to the Chateau.

She has fainted," he said ; '' we
must contrive a litter to carry her indoors.
I fear she has been seriously hurt."

CHAPTER XX.

A Revelation

pDMOND had carefully avoided Yidonze,
but the photographer soon learned
that he had slept at the Coq door.

*' And I think," Charles Cajot softly
rubbed his hands as he communicated
this information, " that Monsieur has
gone up to the Chateau this morning."


Vidonze ground his teeth with rage.
This was a confirmation of his housekeeper's
story. His impulse was to rush
over to Chateau Montcour, but Mademoiselle
Herkenne must be there by this

T 2

time, and he might injure his cause by
interference. So he nodded to Charles
and sauntered out, smiling at old Jacques
who pretended to be asleep in the vine-covered
arbour  a sun-trap now that
almost all the leaves had fallen from the
angular and twisted brown stems.

That fellow is a sulky old fool," said
Yidonze as he passed, '' he never has a
word to say to me."

He sauntered down to the river; he
was artist enough to like to watch the
endless play of light and shade on the
water, and on the grey stones against
which it struggled ; to-day however he was
too impatient to look long at anything; but
he strove to put a strong curb upon his
feelings ; he well knew there was no use
in being impatient. Mademoiselle Her-kennel
might find some difficulty in getting
to Jeanne, and then it might take long
to overcome the girl's unwillingness to see
him. He believed that she had loved

Edmund Depuis; but he was the safer
for that reason, he thought. He had so
high an opinion of Jeanne that he felt it
was impossible that she would now listen to
Edmund Depuis' love, and it was more
than likely that she would wish to marry
in order to show her indifference, and also
to put an end to her former lover's folly.

Yidonze felt indignant at Edmund's
conduct. '' Old Baconfoy would disinherit
him if he only guessed it," he
said.

He went on beside the river till he got
to the point where it sweeps into shadow
beneath the lofty rocks beyond the
Chateau.

After awhile he turned to go back to
the inn  and a few paces off, as if she had
suddenly sprung out of the ground, appeared
Mademoiselle Herkenne. She
looked pale and troubled, he thought ; her
skirts dripped with water, and her dress
was torn and disordered.

*' Where have you come from ? What
has happened ?" he spoke quickly almost
angrily, for there was not a ray of hope or
of success in her face. " How could you
get back so soon ?"

She moved her head impatiently; she
was too overwrought for such a trifling
question.

I have brought you an answer'* she
said.

She refuses''

Yes, she refuses to see you ; she says
she could never love you,"  she fixed
her eyes on him so intently that, bold ashe
was, he almost flinched under her
gaze  "and I left her with Monsieur
Depuis."

She paused, devouring his face with a
look from which all reserve was forcibly
thrown aside ; but the hope that this proof
against Jeanne must kill his love for her
was soon quenched.

Curse him ; but Jeanne will not listen

to him. She will turn to me for refuge
against the villain. If I can only see her
all will be well."

'' And you would make her your wife
after all," she said, bitterly.

Why not ? she is the only woman I
have ever really loved ; the only one that
could make marriage endurable to me.
I will go through fire and water to win
her."

' You are a fool," said Mademoiselle
Herkenne.

Yidonze stared in utter amazement ;
it was so wonderful that his proud,
dignified housekeeper could so far forget
herself; but all at once the reason of
her bitterness revealed itself. It was
plain she was jealous of Jeanne's power
over him ; she feared that a wife would
destroy her influence, and probably oust
her altogether. He smiled as he stood
thinking; she was so useful to him that
he could not allow even a wife to upset

her management of his affairs; no doubt
the confidence he had placed in her, and
the way in which he had sought her
advice had flattered the poor soul.

This smiling silence maddened EUse
Herkenne; she believed that she had betrayed
herself.

Do not look angry, my good friend,"
Vidonze spoke in a soothing voice. " If
I marry it will make no difference to
you ; I shall not send my best friend
away "  he took her hand in the excess
of his benignity. " When you come to
know Jeanne you will see that she will
not interfere with you ; besides, she and I
shall live at Namur, you will have it all
your own way at Dinant."

She flung his hand away with a force
that startled him.

Yes, you are a fool, Antoine Yidonze,
and fools are always blind. What do you
think women are made of, that you suppose
this girl will take you while her heart is

full of another man's love ? for I tell you
it is, and she will never cure of it  never.
Mon Dieu ! and for this pale creature who
detests you, you have flung away a love
that would have worshipped the ground
you trod on; that would have died for
you  but listen, Antoine Vidonze, it is not
my fault that your Jeanne is still alive" 
she went on wildly  " she has escaped this
time, but if you persist in trying to make
her your wife, she shall die  she must die,
I have sworn it  so cure yourself of your
mead love while there is time."

The bronzed red on his face changed
to a ghastly paleness ; spite of his strength
he shivered with horror as Elise, like a
fury with flashing eyes, announced her
murderous intention  and while he stood
staring at her with widely-parted lips, she
fled and was soon hidden from sight behind
the bushes which divided the strip
of meadow from the road.

Stay  stay, Elise Herkenne," he cried.

and followed her; but when he reached
the road she was not to be seen, and he
hurried back to the inn, thinking that, when
her passion had spent itself, she would probably
return there.

But she did not come; and before long
Baptiste arrived from the Chateau, driving
in hot haste, on his way to fetch the
doctor : Baptiste was shaking with excitement.


Mon Dieu ! sl madwoman has got into
the garden," he cried, '' and she has
nearly murdered Mademoiselle Jeanne,
and Monsieur Depuis has saved her, and
now he is going to fetch Monsieur Eugene
home again."

At which news Vidonze felt greatly
disturbed, for he saw that the brothers
Cajot were exchanging significant glances,
and that Auguste was scowling at
him.

'* Search must be made for the
madwoman," he said ; '' no doubt she

will be found between Comblain and the
station."

He spoke decidedly ; and he took the
lead in the search with so much energy
and masterfulness that even old Jacques
was satisfied with his zeal in Jeanne's
cause.

But the search was unsuccessful ; no
trace was found of Mademoiselle Her-kennel.


CHAPTER XXI.

A Return.

TT7HEN Edmund had seen Jeanne under
the care of the doctor, who told him
she had suffered no serious bodily injury,
he hastened back to Dinanb to break the
news to Monsieur Eugene.

The poor old man was terribly frightened,
though Edmund told him as tenderly as he
could.

He gave a very simple account of the
accident. He said that a madwoman
had got into the grounds and had tried
to push Mademoiselle de Matagne over
the cliff, and that, being near at hand, he

heard cries for help ; he had climbed the
fence and rescued Jeanne.

Monsieur Eugene's alarm was so great
that he wrote to summon his brother to
Montcour ; but Edmund was surprised at
the energy the old man showed. He gave
orders to his servant for them to return
at once to Chateau Montcour.

Then, when Edmund had done all he
could for Jeanne, he turned wearily homewards.


He had decided how to act.
The shock of seeing Jeanne lying white
and still, with that murderous face glaring
above her, had roused him as he had
never been roused in his life before. He
could not shake off the impression  it
haunted him ; and besides this he felt
deeply anxious as to what the result
might be.

The doctor had said that, though there
were no injuries beyond bruises, the system
had been rudely shocked, and that

it was possible that Mademoiselle Jeanne
would have serious illness.

Edmund felt as if his promise to Jeanne
had been made beside a death-bed  that
kiss on her hand had ratified it ; whatever
the pain might be, he must abide by that
promise now.

He hoped to have found Pauline alone,
but when he went into the room Monsieur
Baconfoy and Madame Boulotte were sitting
with his wife. They kept silent, but
Pauline ran to Edmund and threw herself
into his arms with a burst of joy.

He kissed her, and then he went forward
and shook hands with Madame
Boulotte, too much absorbed to notice
her coldness.

You must all have wondered what
had become of me. Urgent business took
me away quite suddenly. I hoped to come
back last night, but I could not. I am
afraid you were anxious, Pauline." He

looked at his wife so kindly that Madame
Boulotte was somewhat appeased.

Thank God you are safe," said
Pauline.

Of course she was anxious ; so we all
were," Baconfoy said, bluffly, but he did
not smile.

So Monsieur Baconfoy kindly came
and fetched me to stay with her," said
the widow ; '' but really. Monsieur Depuis,
you could have telegraphed."

It was not possible to do so." Edraond
spoke quietly, but he did not offer
any explanation, and the widow was
ruffled.

You must be hungry," said Pauline.
You must have some breakfast ;" and
she hurried away to Valerie. Madame
Boulotte shruoored her shoulders.

*' Mon Bleu ! some wives " She

did not finish her sentence. " That
child is an angel," she said, and she went
after Pauline.

Baconfoy stood, awkwardly silent, with
his hands in his pockets. He wished
Edmund to feel that he was displeased ;
and yet it occurred to him that a man
had a right to do as he chose in his own
affairs.

Edmund was silent too, but he was
not confused or ashamed ; he was
only deciding what to say to his
cousin.

Jules," he said, after a pause, " I know
what you are thinking of me, and I know
I deserve to be thought badly of, but not
for this absence." The deep feeling in
his voice roused Baconfoy. " I have had
a great sorrow ; but I am going to tell my
wife everything, and then, if she can forgive
me, I think silence is best and easiest
for us all. But I want your advice, my
good Jules."

He put his hand affectionately on the
big man's shoulder, and met the searching
gaze of those piercing dark eyes

SO frankly and fearlessly that Baconfoy
felt a sensation of surprise  the surprise
mingled with a thrill of interest, which
we all feel when some one with whom we
have lived closely for years reveals an
inner depth of which we in our blindness
and self-conceit had thought him
incapable.

What is it, my boy ?" the older man
said, affectionately taking Edmund's hand.
I will advise you as I best may when I
know your trouble."

'' I will tell this much. I have not
been a good husband to Pauline, though
outwardly I may have seemed so  I ought
not to have married her. The past has
been against me ; but in the future I trust
she will find me changed  that is if she
forgives the past  but for both our sakes
it will be best to part at present."
Baconfoy shook his head.
To part ! No, Edmund ; what will
be said ? You will make a scandal that

VOL. III. u

you will never outlive. You do not know
the world as well as I do, my dear
boy."

'' I cannot help what the world says.
I know I am right. There need be no
scandal, a good reason shall be given  an
artist often goes away for study ; I am out
of health ; I shall go and study for a time ;
but I want to know if you think Madame
Boulotte will take care of Pauline ?"

There is no fear of that ; she has
been like a mother to her in your absence.
But 1 tell you frankly she will not approve
of your going away, and I have the highest
opinion of Madame's sense and judgment."


My going is my affair and my wife's."
Edmund spoke quietly but so firmly that
Baconfoy could only shrug his shoulders,
and thrust his hands deeper than ever into
his capacious pockets.

About an hour later Edmund and

Pauline were walking in the wood that
clothes the cliff behind the Public Gardens
of Dinant. He had asked her to
come with him gravely, and in so sad a
voice that Pauline had walked beside
him in silence, her usual prattle checked
by a strange feeling of expectancy.

When they were fairly in the wood,
where large blocks of stone here and
there offered moss-grown seats under the
fast thinning leafage overhead, Edmund's
pace slackened.

Pauline," he said, earnestly, " I have
come here that we may be quite alone.
I know I have made you very unhappy
by my manner towards you. I have
been very selfish. Can you forgive
me?"

'* 1 have always forgiven you, Edmund,"
she said, timidly, for this new manner
of her husband's frightened her. " If I
had not been so silly you would have
been different."

u 2

You have much to forgive me, my
darling child. You are a good, generous
little thing," he said, warmly ; *' but you
may spare yourself that sting. I should
have been the same in any case."

She began to understand now. She
trembled, and her eyes grew large with
fear of what was coming.

All this while," he spoke fast, as if to
get it said before his courage failed, *' I
have not been loving you, and if you
had not been a good woman  an angel
I cannot say where my folly would
have ended. God has been merciful
to me."

He paused ; but Pauline was crying
silently, she could not speak ; she felt as
if her heart must break. She had often
said Edmoud did not love her, but it
was quite different to hear him say he
had all this time, even while he had
treated her as a wife, never loved
her.

'" You are not obliged to forgive me,"
he said, ' many wives would never forgive
such conduct, and if you prefer it, you
shall be left free. I must still remain your
husband in name, but we need not meet."

Pauline's tears had stopped.

'' Is this your wish ?" she said, in a
heart-broken voice. " Do you hate me,
Edmund ?"

That is not the question," he said. " I
only want to consult you on our future.
I will say this much, that whichever way
you decide you will never lose my esteem ;
but you shall not be asked to decide hastily ;
for the present we will part. I will go to
Italy and study my art, and if, after a while,
you are content to give me another trial,
I will try to deserve your love, and to make
you happy  if I can."

He had risen, and he stood before
her like a criminal, with bent head.

Pauline caught at his hand and covered
it with kisses.

Oh, my darling," she said, " I do not
want to think. Do not leave me, I know
you can make me happy. It has all been
my fault, for you never promised to
love me."

Yes, I did," he said, gravely ; '' I
swore it before the altar; but, dear wife,"
he took her in his arms and kissed her,
with a tenderness that set her tears flowing
again, " it must be as I say ; it will be
best for both of us. Then when we meet
we will never separate again, my
Pauline."

CHAPTER XXII.

CONCLUSION.

11/rONTHS have passed since Jeanne
'- and Edmund parted; the illness
which has kept Jeanne lying prisoned
in her bed has brought her so near death
that now  as she is placed on the sofa
downstairs, and can once more see the
sky and the bare branches of the trees
waving in the crisp wintry air  it seems
to her that she has died literally, and
that this is a new world to which
she has wakened  a new life which opens
before her, to be lived.

She says this to good Father Hallez

as he sits beside her, rejoicing in her
improved looks. He has been often at
Chateau Montcour during her illness, but
to-day Jeanne has summoned him specially.


The brain-fever which seized her after
her terrible struggle, had made it necessary
to keep her free from all mental
exertion, but now she feels able to talk and
explain her plans, and she wants the good
priest's help.

He has always appreciated Jeanne as
truly as he has loved her, and he feels
that such a nature must be allowed to
cure itself in its own way, and when she
told him that she could never find rest
in the quiet routine of life at Chateau
Montcour, he did not contradict her,
but bade her wait till her health was
stronger before she began plans for the
future.

To-day she has been speaking to him
fully and freely. She wishes to spend

the handsome marriage portion left to
her by Mademoiselle de Matagne in building
some wards to be used like the Hospice
at Dinant, for the poor of the
country afflicted with incurable diseases,
and though at first the priest demurs,
yet as she goes on with her plan he has
yielded.

'' I have read and inquired more than
you think, Father, and I believe the
money will be more than sufficient for
the building and the support of three
nurses to help me in the work."

Monsieur Hallez stares in surprise;
while he has been content to sro on in his
daily routine deploring the suffering he is
quite unable to minister to, this young
girl, lying on her sick-bed, has thought
out a plan to benefit others which
will involve a life of perpetual self-sacrifice.


'' My child," he says, *' have you
counted the cost in another way ? The

nurses of a hospital have an incessant
and monotonous round of daily toil, butin
such a refuge as you propose the
monotony is much increased, there is comparatively
seldom a change in the patients."

One would get to know them, and
love them better for their long stay,"
says Jeanne, brightly ; " one would get to
live their lives instead of one's own ; why,
I should begin with that dear old husband
and wife across the river; indeed,
Father, it is not monotony that I fear, I
only feared whether I was not shrinking
from my trial by seeking a life in which
I must needs forget it."

Monsieur Hallez takes off* his spectacles
and wipes the glasses  they are misty.

'' Ah !" Jeanne says gaily, " I see you
have no objection. Now I want you to
explain all this to Monsieur Eugene and
Monsieur Eaoul  there they are in the garden
; afterwards I should like much to see
Monsieur Eugene."

Monsieur Hallez leaves her, and
Jeanne lies still, awaiting his return.
The exertion of speaking has brought a
faint rosy tinge to her pale, sunken
cheeks, and her loving brown eyes look
brighter than they have looked since her
illness. As she gazes out at the window,
between the muslin curtains that almost
meet in the centre, the sun falls on her
hair, closely cropped during her illness,
and turns it into clustering rings of gold.
The brothers pass out of sight as they
walk ; before the priest can overtake them
she sees them turn into the path where
she and Edmund parted. . . .

She turns away and tears fill her eyes.
Presently she smiles. " They are the
last," she says ; " they belong to the old
life, and must be buried with it. Perhaps,
if I had not loved Edmund so much, T
should have grown cold, and God would
not have taught me this way of showing
my love to Him. It is true what dear

Mademoiselle said to me one day, that
human love is only a reflection of God's
love ; it is perhaps our apprenticeship to
learn how they love in Heaven. . . ."

Now she sees Monsieur Hallez and
Monsieur Eugene coming back, and the
priest is talking earnestly, as if trying to
convince his companion.

And very soon Monsieur Eugene is
standing beside her sofa, holding her
hand in both his, and assuring her, in
his gentle pathetic voice, how rejoiced he
is to see her downstairs again. He has
brought her a few violets, and before he
seats himself he carefully puts these in
water and places them on a little table
close by Jeanne.

"You are so kind, and they are so
sweet," she says, gratefully.

Monsieur Eugene only presses her hand.
Now that he sees Jeanne in full daylight,
he is shocked at the change in her sweet,
young face, for her eyes seem to have

gone back in lier head, and Ler nose is
pinched and sharp. He sees, too, how-colourless
are her lips, and how wasted
and wan are the slender white fingers that
he holds; how changed from the plump,
shapely, brown hand that was always so
prompt in rendering him service. He
sighs deeply.

Uncle*' says Jeanne, all her old gaiety
shining in her clear eyes, " you will not do
for one of my nurses. I shall not employ
you ; you ought never to sigh when you
visit a patient."

All, yes, forgive me. What is this, my
dear, dear child ? Monsieur Hallez has
been talking to me about it, but you and
he are both wrong, Jeanne. At least I
think you are wrong, and so does Raoul ;
he says you are sure to marry some day,
Jeanne."

Jeanne smiles ; she knows that Monsieur
Eugene would never set up his own

opinion unless he had his brother's wisdom
to rely on.

She keeps fast hold of one of his hands,
and kisses it. *' I want you to listen,
uncle dear, while I tell you a story. No,
do not look at me ; you must look at the
sunshine out there." She points to the
window.

Once upon a time," she says, looking
straight at the wall in front of her 
long before you knew me, uncle  a girl
lived with her grandmother in a cottage beside
the Meuse. You know where it was.
Some one used to come there, and he and
the girl loved one another. ." A flush
rises on her face, but Monsieur Eugene
does not move his eyes from the
window.

He is dead," he says, gently.

She does not answer for a few
moments.

** He is dead to her," she says in a low
voice i "butyouknow,uncle, that a woman's

love never dies.' . . . She lies silent
after this with closed eyes, very white and
still; only her heaving bosom tells how
much the effort to say all this has cost her.

Monsieur Eugene stands waiting ; he
fancies Jeanne has not ended, and he
fears to interrupt her.

"You understand now," she says at
last, in a low, timid voice, " why I
could never marry Monsieur Raoul or
anyone."

Then Monsieur Eugene turns round ; his
eyes shine with tears.

''My Jeanne, ray darling child," he
bends down and kisses her forehead, and
his tears fall on her face, " why did you
not tell me sooner ? I thought it was this ;
but I could not ask for your confidence.
You will never hide any sorrow from me
again, my child."

Jeanne gives him such a sweet, loving
smile.

'' I see I shall have my Hospice," she

says, '' spite of all opposition ; and if I
have you to help me, I must be quite
happy always."

'' You are to have some one else too,
you are going to have Merette," says Monsieur
Eugene, trying to smile through his
tears. " In your delirium you said you
could not live without Merette, so kind
Monsieur Hallez has brought her here
this morning."

Jeanne sits upright, her eyes glistening
with joy.

Ah, it is too kind  dear Merette !
oh, I want to see her !" she says. " Uncle,
I shall get well directly."

Meantime Yidonze had begun to wonder
whether there was any use in trying to
win Jeanne. His sister had told him
he was foolish to think of it, and Monsieur
Baconfoy had simply laughed at him ; and
at last he began to see that already he had
thrown away more than a year in running

after a shadow. He had given up his shop
at Dinant, for the custom there departed
when Mademoiselle Herkenno disappeared,
and he had almost determined to give up
his Namur business also and go to Egypt.
Till he lost his housekeeper he did not
know how much he owed to her help, and
how. strongly she had linked him to a settled
life. His erratic spirit began to re-assert
itself, he longed to travel.

He was now on his way to Rimayy to
see what Madame Boulotte would say
to these plans ; with all his anger against
Elise, he sometimes thought he had
perhaps thrown away a treasure. When
he reached his sister's house she was not
at home, but he found Pauline there, very
subdued and quiet, though very happy.
She had received a letter from Edmund
a few days before, announcing his
return.

But he is not coming here," she
said, " he is only coming to Brussels or

VOL. III. X

to Cologne to take me back to Italy, and
I want Madame Boulotte to go with
me to meet him."

'' Where is my sister ?" said Yidonze,
impatiently ; he had no sympathy with
Pauline, no interest in her proceedings ; he
sneered as he thought of the revelations
he could make to the poor little woman.
But it is not worth while," he said to
himself."

Pauline gave him a meaning smile.

Monsieur Baconfoy is here, and they
are taking a walk," she said.

But Vidonze either did not or would not
understand; he snatched up his hat and
said he should go to find them.

They were not far off. They had been
walking up and down, up and down the
little Boulevard, under the leafless trees,
for half an hour. Now their dispute had
ended, or rather had come to a pause. The
gentleman looked offended, and the lady's
lip curled. They took one more turn.

'' Monsieur," she bowed, " I must leave
you now. I hope we part friends."

You have no friendship for me,
Madame," he said gruffly.

Madame Boulotte gave a little rippling
laugh.

That is so like a man, and they say
only women exaggerate. I promised edmund
Depuis I would watch over this
child-wife of his, and I cannot let her go
travelling about by herself."

Child-wife ! a woman who has had
two husbands, Madame; she is as able to
take care of herself as you are." Here
Monsieur Baconfoy cleared his throat,
and blew his nose soundingly. '' Madame,
you once allowed me to suppose you were
not indifferent to me, and yet Edmund
Depuis and his wife, a girl whom you used
to dislike, are to be considered before me.
Pardon me, Madame, but this position is
not to be endured. I am a philosopher,

Madame, but I am flesh and blood for all
that."

Madame Boulotte glanced at him merrily,
he seemed to her so grand, drawn up to his
full height, his dark eyes sparkling with
impatience, and his heavy grey moustache
quivering with wounded feeling, that her
love of mischief was subdued.

Monsieur," she said, sweetly, " did I
ever say that I linea to go with Pauline
Depuis ?"

Eh, what ? then you give it up ? "
he gave her a sharp glance of inquiry.


No, I cannot give it up."

Baconfoy shrugged his shoulders.

You will not, you mean, Madame. T
have the honour to wish you good day."
He made her a low bow, and the pair
parted.

Madame Boulotte walked briskly away,
her heart swelling at his injustice. Had
she not said she was going against her

will simply to do her duty ; and was lie
really going to give up all his homage and
the love which she had seen in his eyes
because of this ?

"Love! Bah, nonsense !" The widow
tossed her comely head with a sort of pity
for her new weakness, but she was
smarting all the while. How could she
do without him ? It would have been all
very well if they had continued enemies,
as they had been in the days when she
had thought of him as a " fossil."

But he is no fossil ; I know it to my
cost," she sighed. Indeed Baconfoy's
visits and his devotion all through this
winter had become part of her life ; and
then there were the neighbours ; some of
them had already joked her, and asked her
when the marriage was to be.

She looked over her shoulder. It was
a concession, and she did not like making
it, but luckily his back was towards her.

He was standing still, but he had turned
away so that he might not see her.

I wonder if he is unhappy," thought
the widow. Her own heartache was
getting beyond endurance. '' Well, I do
not think it is Christian to make a fellow-creature
unhappy," and she went back a
few steps. She was within speaking
distance now, and he need never know she
had come back at all. She gave a little
cough.

He stood as still as ever. Madame
Boulotte coughed more loudly, but he did
not turn round.

'' He is sulky," said Madame, with a
triumphant smile ; '' I will teach him how
to sulk with me again;" and she walked
back and touched his arm with the tips of
her plump fingers.

Monsieur," Baconfoy turned round
with a start, " I gave you an opportunity
just now, but as you passed it by, I was
too shy to press it on you. I have since

reflected that, owing to the blindness of
your sex, it is possible you were unable
to understand it."

Baconfoy felt foolish, and he looked
guilty, but expectant.

Well," she gave a little impatient
sigh, " I suppose I ought to rejoice that
women are so superior to men ; however,"
she saw his face twitching with impatience,
when I said T must take Pauline to
Brussels or to Cologne, or wherever she
has to meet this husband of hers, I did
not say I must go alone' She gave him
a grave, demure glance.

Baconfoy snatched her hand and drew
it under his arm.

Madame," he whispered, " you are an
angel, and I am a sulky old fool. We
will go to Brussels together  but we will be
married first, if you please."

