CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

BOOK SECOND.

4 7TST OJ 7 FRIENDSHIP.

* I. The Threads begin to cross . . 83

II. Beaumont Pierce-D awn ay's Widow 106

III. In which the Colonel takes Stock oe

his Position . . . 125

IV. ''Le Dessous des Cartes" . 14"
V. Jessie suggests a Remedy . . 167

VI. A Search for a Vocation . Ito

BOOK THIRD.
LOVER ANI) MISTRESS.

I Barter 'Ali

I. In which Philip makes an Important

Discovery . . . 211

II. A Spring Night . . 236

III. The Joys of Reunion . . 256

IV. Mr. Ames finds himself Unequal to the

Occasion . . . 283

VOL. i.

CHAPTEK I.

LE EOI EST MORT."

The house at Bassett Darcy lies low. From
around it the well-timbered park rises on
three sides, in gentle undulations, towards
the stretch of high table-land forming the
south-eastern corner of the county. On the
fourth side, broad lawns slope down to the
banks of the Tull  a quiet, uneventful
stream, that wanders indolently through mile
after mile of rich meadow land, past osier-beds
and alders, and long lines of pollarded
willows ; under the wide arches of old brown
sandstone bridges ; by Villages of quaint
half-timbered houses, and spinneys, where
the rooks congregate and nightingales sing

in the earl' summer ; and by waste places 
pleasant spots in which Nature has her own
way still, and refuses to he put in harness
and to labour for the general good of mankind
in any more direct manner than by an
offering of sweet scents and colours  places
overgrown with meadow-sweet, and yellow
flags, and pink willow-herb, and tall spikes
of purple loosestrife, and docks, and nodding
grasses  by these the river wanders to
mingle its current at last  some few miles
west of the bright little modern watering-place
of Tullingworth  with that of the
historic Avon, and so find its w r ay to the
Severn, and the far distant unknown sea.

The Tull is anything but dramatic. It indulges
in no sparkling races over rounded
boulders, no splashing into deep pools, no
roar and rush, no petulance or bubbling
laughter. The steady monotonous repose of
the Midlands lies upon it. Like the men and
women who live in the green pastoral country
beside it banks, it is moderate, neutral-tinted,
slow, self-absorbed, and silent. At
first sight it appears to be somewhat wanting
in individual character. Yet this quiet

midland stream is capable of yielding very
pretty effects of light and shade, of form
and colour to those who will take the trouble
to look for them. And undoubtedly its
neighbourhood lends a singular charm to
the grounds at Bassett Darcy.

Just below the garden front of the stately
Jacobean mansion it makes a sharp curve
away to the right, round a thickly wooded
spit of land ; and, thanks to an artificial
widening of the river bed, presents to the
eye quite an imposing expanse of smooth
shimmering water.

The house itself shares in great measure
the restrained and unemotional aspect of
the river. It is a large square building of
the yellow-brown sandstone of the country ;
with rectangular windows and doorways,
and a low-pitched slated roof, but just
visible over the Hue of the parapet. This
style of architecture is singularly innocent of
surprises ; it is full of solidity and sobriety.
and is altogether too dignified to pander to
a frivolous taste for the superficially picturesque.
The only incident in the serious
facade at all claiming attention is the great

double flight of stone steps leading up to
the hall door. These steps are pleasant
to contemplate. There is a generousness
about the descending curve of the massive
balustrade, and an air of easy hospitality
about the broad stairway that proves decidedly
encouraging to the guest arriving
at Bassett Darcy.

Here the Enderbys have lived for man'
generations  a strong vigorous race, with

but little tendency to dwindle down to an
unsatisfactory point in the person of one
female representative. There is a certain
virility, a healthy coarseness of fibre about
most of them, which promises to the fat
family acres  even in these thin, eager,
somewhat over-civilized times  a long continuance
in the possession of heirs male.
A mellow canvas in a carved and gilded
frame, hanging in the dining-room at Bassett,
sets forth in its most agreeable and
impressive aspect the true Enderby type.
It represents a large fresh-complexioned
gentleman in a curled wig, with a round
solid head, short nose  wide across the
nostrils and slightly inclining to aquiline  a

long, full upper lip, pouting mouth, large
lower jaw, with plenty of what  for the
want of a better word  one must needs call
jowl, and prominent light-brown eyes under
slightly arched eyebrows. His neck is thick,
and is encircled by a voluminous neckcloth
of the finest India muslin. The glint of a
steel cuirass show T s under his scarlet coat
bountifully adorned with gold lace. The
picture is by Sir Joshua Eeynolcls ; and,
doubtless, " Philip Enderby, Esq., Major-general
of His Majesty's Forces, Colonel of
the 204th Regiment of Foot, and Governor
of Fort George, in North Britain"  as an
inscription runs under a print from the
original picture  fared very well at the hands
of that most courteous and genial of portrait-painters.
You cannot avoid a suspicion that
a few too powerful lines have been gently
obliterated; that the gallant general's eyes
were not quite so clear, and that his complexion
was a few shades deeper in tone.
You feel pretty sure that he must have been
a man of strong animal passions ; straightforward
and honest in character, but also nota
little obstinate, arrogant, and tyrannical.

A person rather inordinately sensible of his
own importance in the universal order of
things ; kind-hearted, yet disposed to bully
and bluster, and eminently unfitted to appreciate
the best of jokes, if made at his
own expense.

Most of the Enderby men have adhered
pretty closely to the above type; and,
perhaps consequently, have not created for
themselves a very definite place in history.
The eldest son of the house has usually
gone into the army ; but with the exception
of General Philip, whose portrait hangs in
the dining-room, the Enderbys, until the
present generation, have not contributed
any conspicuously distinguished soldiers to
the service of their country. Perhaps
Bassett Darcy is somewhat to blame in this
matter, and has helped to check the full
development of the family genius. Advanced
thinkers tell us that the possession of a perfectly
secure social position and the prospect
of a comfortable inheritance are apt to
paralyze ambition, and strangle those finer
emotions w T which inspire a man to forge his
w r ay upw T ard in the world. No doubt it is

u no mean happiness to be seated in the
mean ; " but it is a species of happiness
liable, the' say, to be cherished somewhat
to the exclusion of distinct progress and
high endeavour.

It may be broadly stated, then, that most
of the En derby s have lived uneventful lives
enough ; have mixed freely in the best local
society, have married young, ridden hard to
hounds, quarrelled hotly over county politics,
consumed a very fair portion of first-rate
wine ; have been reckoned considerably
important an opinion they were disposed
to share in sincerely themselves  within a
radius of some twenty or thirty miles ; and
when, after a long and usually respectable,
if not brilliant, career, Death has called for
them, they have prepared  perhaps a trifle
unwillingly  to obey his summons, and
ascend to some not too spiritually minded
or ecstatic quarter of the New Jerusalem.

Occasionally, however, even in the most
physically and mentally conservative of races
there occurs a sudden deflection from the
accustomed type. It is probably only a
ease of reversion, of a return to an older

strain of blood. Be that as it may, the
individual exhibiting these unusual qualities
and tendencies appears to have a dash of
original genius. He is tempted to emerge,
to take a new departure, and, consequently,
runs the risk of becoming confusing, if not
downright objectionable, in the eyes of his
near relations.

It is a case of the kind which forms
the basis of this unpretentious chronicle.
Scientifically considered, this is the history
of a deviation  of a doubtfully successful
exception to a safe, though unexciting,
general rule.

One evening, towards the close of October,
1876, a peculiar stillness seemed to reign
at Bassett Darcy. It was a stillness of
expectation rather than of repose ; and
Dr. Mortimer Symes, sitting in the wide
window-seat of the big blue bedroom over
the hall, was curiously sensible of the silent
pause which penetrated the atmosphere of
the large house, and appeared even to spread
itself over the face of the serious landscape
outside. The rolling pasture land of the
park showed a dull green, with a sandy

blooia upon it here and there from the
stalks of the withered spare-grass. In the
distance long beds of pale mist lay across
it, out of which rose the trees and scattered
clumps of hawthorn bushes. It was too
dark clearly to see the colour of these
latter; but you might perceive a warm
russet tinge over their dark foliage. Along
the top of the hill, just outside the park
wall and about half a mile distant, the trees
and cottages in Priors Bassett village rose
in a dense mass against the sky, the twisted
chimneys and gable-ends showing sharp and
black against the light behind them. The
sky itself, a pale opaque blue, shading into
a bank of dove-coloured earth-mist below,
was covered to the westward beyond the
village, where the bare upland met the skyline,
with a fine network of delicate crimson
and flame coloured cloud.

Dr. Synies was given to observation in
many departments besides the strictly professional
one. He was fond of perceiving-analogies
and correspondences between
natural and spiritual phenomena. He had
also cultivated a power of double consciousness

; and though acutely aware of every
sound that came from the great blue-curtained
bedstead, where lay old Mr. Matthew
Enderby  his strong vigorous life slowly
ebbing, sinking, failing, like the failing day
the doctor was also quite sufficiently
unabsorbed to note both the quiet of the
house and effects of the waning sunset outside.
He wished, if possible, to drive back
to Tullingworth that night ; but he had
half-promised Mr. Jack Enderby to stay to
the end. He did not think the end was
very far off now; and, meanwhile, he felt
quite at liberty to entertain himself with
a calm, if sympathetic, observation of his
surroundings.

Poor Jack Enderby, on the other hand,
sitting at the farther side of the bed, and
w T watching in the growing dimness, was anything
but calm. He found himself in the
unfortunate position of a man who has a disagreeable
message to deliver, and who dreads
almost equally the opportunity and the
absence of an opportunity for delivering it.

Jack was really an excellent fellow,
and, notwithstanding a short, reddish-yellow

beard and a white tie, realized very
completely the true Enderby type. He had

plenty of pluck  of nothing tangible or
material was he for an instant afraid ; but
not even the influences of his sacred profession
had supplied his original lack of
moral courage. He went in mortal fear of
what is best described as a scene or a
situation. There was nothing gloomy,
sacerdotal, prophetic, or denunciatory about
him ; and, unless he happened to be personally
offended  like most persons of his
complexion, he was a trifle hot-tempered 
few things were less congenial to him than
admonishing backsliders, pointing sternly
to the path of duty, and foretelling the
plagues justly following on all wilful hardening
of the heart. I am afraid it must be
admitted that Mr. Jack Enderby had not
any special vocation for the priesthood, and
that the exercise, during a period of some
twenty years, of his spiritual calling had not
made him different, in any sensible degree,
to the ordinary run of English provincial
gent men
At last there was a movement on the

part of old Matthew Enclerby. He shifted
his position slightly, and began speaking ina
thick unmodulated voice. There was an
evident struggle and difficulty about his
articulation, and at first the w T words spoken
were barely intelligible.

Jack moved uneasily in his chair, and
cleared his throat with a touch of nervousness.
He glanced inquiringly up at Mortimer
Barnes as he did so ; but the doctor sat
quite still, his high conical head, hooked
nose, long shaven upper lip and straight
chin, with its straggling and grizzled imperial,
silhouetted against the light background
of the window. Jack, looking
up at him suddenly, was forcibly struck
by the eminent medical man's resemblance
to a goat ; and then felt a little
ashamed of himself for having ventured to
think of anything at all amusing under
existing circumstances.

The scent's cold," murmured old
Matthew Enderby, huskily, " cold  cold.
It's no use trying any more. Better give
up and get away home. Don't you see,
it's getting dark?"

Jack held aside the blue stuff curtain of
the great old-fashioned four-post bed, and
leant forward.

Can you hear rue, sir ? " he asked.

"Yes, I can hear you well enough,
Jack," answered the old man, in the same
thick, monotonous voice. " Pity they made
a parson of you, Jack ; but you'll have it all
your own way soon, parson or not. None
of 'em can prevent that. You're a regular
Enderby, Jack  eyes and jaw and all. But
the scent's cold," he went on, " and it's
getting dark and late."

Mr. Jack Enderby was one of those easygoing,
kindly natured, unimaginative men
who are never quite prepared for the deeper
and sadder experiences of life. They never
get over a sensation of surprise at the
neighbourhood of sickness and death. Their
own superabundant vitality makes these
two things appear so extremely improbable
to them. Jack did not certainly
love his father with any very exuberant
affection ; but, as he put it himself, he " felt
awfully cut up at seeing the old gentleman
lying there," and this state of feeling made

it all the more difficult to deliver messages
Avliich he was pretty well convinced would
prove highly unacceptable.

"Never mind about me, sir," he said,
with a certain effort, and speaking as distinctly
as he could. " I don't want you to
think about me just now, but about my
brother."

He paused, hoping that the words might
awaken a train of sleeping memories, and
thereby make what had still to be said
easier in the saying of it. But Matthew
Enderby's intelligence  never a very active
one  was clouded with the mists of weakness
and approaching death. His thoughts,
as so often happens just at the close,
wandered back to the days of youth and
early manhood.

Brother," he asked slowly, "which
brother? There was poor Darcy, he was
drowned at sea; and there was Godfrey-lighting
Enderby, they used to call him 
never saw a better man with the gloves in
my life. He fought a barges down in
Farewell one Saturday night, and sewed
him up so that he couldn't move for a

month. Bless me ! lie was a fine fellow;
but your mother never liked hint, somehow.
He hasn't been here this long while. Is
he dead too, Jack?" he added suddenly ina
sharper tone.

U I didn't want to speak to you about
poor Uncle Godfrey, sir," Jack Enderby
answered  " not about your brother,
but "

All ! he's gone, I remember," interrupted
the old man, speaking faster and
more clearly. " They're all gone  my
brothers and my old friends. God help
'em ! you don't see such men nowadays.
And Matt's gone. And your mother's gone
too, Jack. Ah, dear me ! "

The tears came in Jack's eyes, and ran
down over his fresh-coloured cheeks. All
this was horribly painful to him. He would
have liked to say something gentle and
comforting to Mr. Enderby at that moment ;
but a feeling of diffidence, perhaps of false
shame, held him back. His relations with
his father had always been of a rather
rough-and-ready sort. " I wish to goodness
Augusta was here," he thought. "Women

VOL. I. C

are so rnucli better at saying appropriate
things than we are."

Matthew Enderby stretched his right arm
out stiffly, and felt down over the bed-clothes
for the head of an old w T ire-haired terrier,
that lay sleeping, rather uneasily, on the
bed beside him.

They're all gone," he repeated, slowly
and sadly. Then he fondled the old dog's
head with feeble, uncertain fingers.

Dr. Symes got up from his place in thew
r window. He was a short thick-made man,
and limped a good deal in walking. He
came across to the bedside, and stood therefor
a moment, looking narrowly at Matthew
Enderby, who lay with his eyes half shut.

"I do not wish to distress you unnecessarily,
my dear Mr. Enderby," he said ina
low voice, glancing across at Jack, " but
I fear the time granted you for speaking 
pardon my alluding to private matters  is
likely to be limited. I cannot counsel
delay." And with that he retired to his
seat in the window again.

Jack bent over the bed. As the sayings,
he took his courage in both hands.

"Father," lie said, "you remember my
brother?  you remember Philip ? "

Matthew Enderby opened his eyes, and
turned his head sharply on the pillows.

"hind what about Philip?" he asked
curtly, almost angrily.

"He's here, sir. He's downstairs. He
came early this morning ; but you've been
sleeping a good deal, and we couldn't tell
you sooner. He wants to see you. Won't
you see him, sir, just for five minutes  just
once before ' '

Jack stopped abruptly. His words had
produced an effect he had not looked for.

Old Matthew Enderby, filled with sudden
strength, sat bolt upright in bed, his face
firm, high-coloured, passionate as it had
ever been in the fulness of his manly
vigour.

"I sent your brother Philip out of this
house three-and-twenty years ago, and
dared him ever to come back to it ! " he
cried in a loud, vibrating voice. "He
broke your mother's heart. By her deathbed
I swore I would never forgive him ; and
I will never forgive him, never ! "

Jack was shocked, pained, altogether
amazed. He stood up.

Upon my word, sir " he began.

But a rapid change came over Matthew
Enderby. He stretched out both arms with
a sudden convulsive gesture, as though he
was pushing aw r ay from him an actual and
visible presence.

Ah ! " he cried hoarsely. " Good God !
what  what's this ? "

Then he fell back heavily against the
pillows. The old terrier awoke with a
start, and uttering a low whimpering howl,
its hair bristling, and its tail between its
legs, crouched shivering up against the high
footboard of the bedstead.

Dr. Symes came from the window again.
He bent down over his patient, and laid
his hand on his wrist for a few seconds in
silence.

The end has come even sooner than
I had anticipated, Mr. Enderby," he said at
last, looking up at Jack, who stood waiting.

The doctor turned his head and glanced
at the dog cowering down at the foot of the
bed.

Singular," lie said, half aloud, and with
a slight lifting of the eyebrows, "very
singular indeed."

Meanwhile, Philip Enderby, the subject
of the foregoing conversation, waited, with
what patience he could muster, downstairs,
hoping for a summons to his father's bedside.
It was melancholy work enough,
pacing up and down the gloomy panelled
saloon, with its tall rectangular windows,
and dark old-fashioned furniture, in the dim
twilight. The room had that indescribable
odour and chill about it which is wont to
haunt rarely used chambers. The outlook
from the window w T as certainly ill-calculated
to dispel the depressing influences that
reigned within. The white fog hung low
and dense over the river, and crept up the
sloping lawns towards the house. A black
mass of trees  oaks and beeches  rose out
of it just by the bend of the stream on the
left ; and beyond the long flat stretch of
the park faded away into misty uncertainty
under the growing darkness.

After many years of absence this was
hardly a cheerful home-coming for Colonel

Enderby. The place seemed full of ghosts,
and ghosts are rarely good company. The
Colonel had come back longing for peace,
hoping for a final reconciliation which
might wipe out bitter memories of the past ;
but as one half-hour after another slipped
by without sound or movement in the large
house, and as the evening deepened towards
the night, his hopes died slowly and sadly
away, and deep disappointment and regret
possessed him.

For Philip, though he had knocked about
the world more than most men, and was
by no means a weak or over-sentimental
person, had a great singleness of purpose,
and the keenness of feeling which almost
invariably goes with singleness of purpose.
His experience of life had been of
a somewhat stern and practical nature,
making demands upon the more sturdy
masculine virtues, and giving but small
opportunity for delicate self-analysis or
self-culture. Yet there was a very genuine
vein of poetry in him too  a clinging in
thought to this same old home, a deep
desire for re-union w 7 with his father and his

family, a great capacity for enjoyment of
the gentler, quieter, more domestic sides of
life. Perhaps the Colonel's reverence for
natural, simple, homely joys had only been
deepened by a certain denial and thwarting
of desire that had befallen him. His emotions
were none the less vivid because, sofar,
they had been voiceless and unsatisfied,
kept in check by the hand of unpropitious
circumstance.

He had, among other tendencies which
people will praise or blame according to
their own taste in such matters, an almost
quixotic indifference to his own material
advantage. Hearing of old Mr. Enderby's
serious illness, he came to Bassett, not
impelled by any desire to secure a possibly
forfeited inheritance, but with the
simple purpose of entreating for pardon and
for a renewal of affection, before death
should have made all such renewal impossible.
Good-natured Jack Enclerby, with
his handsome wife and herd of noisy
children, might move over from the ramshackle
rectory house at Cold Enderby,
and reign at Bassett in peace and plenty,

and Philip would bear them no grudge in
the future. All he begged for was au
assurance that he was no longer an outcast,
unforgiven, perhaps even forgotten,
without place or part in his father's
memory. But as time drew on, while the
Colonel paced to and fro, stern and silent,
in the cold, dusky saloon downstairs, he
knew that all hope of reconciliation grew
fainter and fainter. He felt sick at heart.

At last there was a sound of footsteps
crossing the hall, and of two men talking-just
outside. Colonel Enderby drew himself
up rather stiffly, and stood waiting in
the middle of the room.

Dr. Symes entered first, composed and
professional, limping slightly, and making a
little stumping noise with his gold-headed
walking-stick.

u If I might order my carriage immediately,
my dear Mr. Enderby, I should be
extremely glad," he said, turning to Jack,
who followed him into the room. " If you
will kindly permit me I will ring at once,"
he added, moving across as he spoke to the
fireplace.

The two other men were left standing
opposite to each other. Colonel Enderby
looked hard at his younger brother ; hut it
was too dark for him to make out the
expression of his face.

Well ? " he asked, rather hoarsely.

"My dear fellow, it's all over," answered
Jack, in a broken voice.

The Colonel bowed his head. There was
a silence for some minutes. Then Jack
Enderby did an extremely unromantic thing.
The long watching, and the final scene
upstairs had upset him considerably, and
his taste at no time was over-refined. He
was conscious, too, that his troubles in the
way of delivering disagreeable messages was
by no means yet over. He poured himself
out a couple of glasses of sherry, from a
decanter that stood on one of the bare
tables, and gulped them down hastily one
after the other. His hand shook a good
deal ; he felt all to pieces, so to speak.

Dr. Synies glanced at him and then at
the Colonel, who waited, erect and silent.
Notwithstanding certain superficial affectations
and vanities, Mortimer Symes was an

eminently kind-hearted man. He was also,
as has already been stated, a pretty shrewd
observer and something of a diplomatist.
He never could see the object of telling
people truths of an unpalatable description
unless it was absolutely necessary to do so.
Just now he perceived that Jack Enderby
was screwing up his courage with a view
to blurting out information calculated to
give acute pain to the living, and reflect no
small discredit upon the dead. He decided
to intervene.

The end was extremely sudden, Colonel
Enderby," he said, folding his arms, and
speaking with that fulness of utterance
which argues distinct satisfaction on the
part of the speaker at the sound of his own
voice. " A long period of coma, followed
by a brief interval of consciousness  the
mind even then considerably clouded. An
inclination to dwell on the past,  reminiscences
of former friendships and interests,
an awaking of early impressions, but no
active appreciation of immediate surroundings.
A momentary flash of the old remarkable
vigour, and then," added Dr.

Syrnes, extending his hand with a slow
downward movement, " a final quenching
of the light. Your brother naturally was
greatly affected. Even a man like myself,
whose professional duties so often bring
scenes of this nature before him, could
hardly remain entirely unmoved. I need
not enlarge on the subject to you, Colonel
Enderby, who must so frequently have witnessed
death in its most distressing forms,
the horror of it aggravated by hideous and
repulsive surroundings. Familiarity fails to
rob death of its terrors. But I own I am
greatly relieved," he continued, with a relapse
into an easier conversational manner
" sincerely relieved. With your father's
remarkably strong constitution, I had feared
a painful struggle at the last. I am thankful
to say we were spared anything of that kind."
The Colonel bowed a sort of general assent
to the worthy doctor's statements. It would
be indelicate, he felt, to ask for intimate
explanations before a third person. His
native reticence, and an innate dignity
which belonged to him, put all further
inquiries out of the question.

Jack, meanwhile, was not slow to perceive
the way of escape which Dr. Barnes' discourse
had opened to him. He stifled any
conscientious scruples that assailed him.

"I did what I could, Philip," he said, ina
slightly apologetic tone. "But it was
just as Dr. Symes says. My father wasn't
quite himself, you know. He was wandering
a good deal, and one couldn't make him
understand anything out of the common
run."

No, no ; of course not," replied Colonel
Tenderly.

He spoke as thoroughly accepting the
position, and even setting the matter
aside ; hut there was a sharp bitterness
at his heart. He was repulsed. His last
chance was gone. Philip was not without
a measure of pride. He turned away,
walked across to the window, and stood
looking out into the misty twilight, while
the doctor indulged in a series of appropriate
and somewhat wordy reflections,
to which Jack answered with incoherent
monosyllables.  His father was dead, and in
dying had given no sign. He himself was

unpardoned. The injustice of the thing, as
well as the sorrow of it, cried out in Philip
Enderby. He could not bring himself to
remain in a house where his coming had
been so unwelcome. He turned away from
the window, went up and spoke to his
brother.

I must get back to Aldershot to-nights''
he said quietly. "I suppose I can catch
the night mail at Slowby. I'll come down
for the funeral, of course, if you'll let me
know the day and hour."

Oh ! but you know, my dear fellow
" began Jack Enderby.

The Colonel interrupted him.

All right," he said. " I know you're
very kind, Jack ; but, under the circumstances,
I had better go all the same,
thanks."

CHAPTEK II.

VIVE LE EOI ! "

On the morning after his father's funeral
Philip Enderby was up and out early. He
had passed a night in his old home for the
first time for over twenty years, and sleep
had been difficult of attainment. There
was very much to think about ; much that
was painful ; difficult to forgive ; to submit
to patiently. A sense of unjust wrong is
not an agreeable bedfellow. The Colonel
was glad enough when the light of a
stormy dawn began to glimmer in through
his window shutters ; he would get up and
go out, and try to find good counsel out of
doors.

He went downstairs and out on to the
head of the steps in front of the door. The
old wire-haired terrier got up from his place

on the tiger-skin before the hearth in the
hall, and trotted out after him. The dog
seemed anxious for notice ; he put his fore-paws
up against the balustrade and forced
his grey muzzle up into Colonel Enderby's
hand with a certain air of inquiry. The
old master Alas gone ; was this the new
one ? The Colonel looked down and patted
the dog's head for a minute ; then he drew
himself up and took a deep breath of the
keen moist air. His heart was very full
just then.

"I am afraid I am a bit of a fool," he
said, half ashamed of his own emotion. " I
suppose I didn't know how much I cared
for the place till it came to a question of
giving it up altogether. It cuts one a little
at first."

The gaudy beauty of a wild autumn
morning was upon Bassett Darcy. The
sky was clear after a night of rain and wind;
a thin, watery blue above, and below almost
white, with a flare of yellow light along
the eastern horizon. A broken procession
of light grey clouds  called of country
weather-prophets by the ominous name of

messengers "  streamed up from the westward
and straggled, ragged and dirty,
across a bank of darker cloud stretching
behind the uplands of Priors Bassett. The
trees, roughly stripped of their coloured
leaves by the night's storm, were black with
wet and glistened in the sunshine, the
coarse grass of the open park looking a raw
green. The wind, chill with rain, blew the
rooks and jackdaws hither and thither, as
they left the wood overhanging the bend of
the sluggish river down behind the house.
Somewhere among the shrubbery, under
shelter of the high red-brick wall of the
gardens on the left, a robin was singing a
tender lament for the dead summer and for
the pain and cold of the long bleak coming
winter.

There were sounds, too, from the large
block of stable buildings on the right. The
murmur of voices, the impatient stamp
of a horse, the rattling of pails and tinkle
of falling water, and now and again a few
bars of some tune, whistled shrilly, came to
Colonel Enderby's ears, as he stood there
looking silently at the strange yet familiar

scene. Memories of his mother, of his
childhood, of quaint games and imaginings,
when the wood by the river was shrouded
in delightful mystery, and the river itself
seemed full of unknown danger and of
promise ; when the flower-garden was a
sweet enchanted region, and when every
natural object possessed a spirit and
personality of its own, to be approached
with wonder and reverence ; when gardeners
and grooms too seemed wise with all
manner of occult wisdom, men who had a
tight grip on fundamental facts, and were
not to be deluded by mere appearances ;
when the keeper, in his gaiters and brown
velveteen coat, with pockets big enough to
hold a couple of retriever puppies, appeared
a wild and daring character, fascinating,
yet somewhat alarming also, thanks to his
careless disregard of animal life and profound
experience in the matter of vermin. 
Memories such as these, impressions and
associations which had slumbered for years,
awoke now in Colonel Enderby. Yes, it
is all there, all that has ever befallen us,
written with some mysterious kind of sym-vol.

I. D

pathetic ink upon the heart and conscience,
and needing merely the fated touch which
shall restore to the invisible characters their
original legibility, and make us live our
past lives over once more in pleasure or in
pain.

He went down the stone steps, round the
end of the great square house, and along the
wide gravel terrace with the shrubberies on
one hand and the sloping lawns on the
other. He had wandered there years ago,
on sleepy summer evenings, with his gentle,
sweet-faced mother, telling her in shy,
half-awkward fashion the story of his first
love and of Miss Cecilia Murray's many
perfections, while Mr. Enderby sat over his
wine in the large dining-room indoors, and
the last glow of the sunset faded behind the
distant woods.

In that pool yonder, under the alder
stump, he caught a two-pound perch in
the Easter holidays, the year he went to
Harrow ; and there was the place, just
where the bank shelves into the water,
among the rushes and broad dock-leaves,
now sere and withered with the chill of

autumn, that he and Matt had seen a
couple of water-rats, one Sunday, after
afternoon service, and that Spot, the old
water spaniel, had missed the last one by a
couple of inches. And there :  but the
tale would be endless. Each path and
bush and flower-bed had its history, simple,
yet vivid, sad or merry of remembrance.

And since those far-off yet unforgotten
times, the little, ugly, red-legged, blue-eyed
boy had grown into a man ; had
wandered far and wide, had seen strange
sights, and passed through strange experiences
; his gentle mother had lain these
many years sleeping in the churchyard on
the hill above ; his first love, the fair
Cecilia, had married the not too reputable
son of an Irish peer, and had drifted away
along some quite other road across the land
of this life ; the old Squire, obstinate and
tyrannical to the last, was dead. Philip
Enderby himself was middle-aged. He
supposed that he had outlived most of his
hopes and illusions ; and yet the old home
was just the same as ever. The rooks still
clamoured as they left their nests, and the

fish rose in the lazy stream ; robins sang
plaintively among the shrubs, men whistled
over their work in the stable yard, and the
rich, damp, clay soil smelt strong and fresh
under the morning sunshine. The individual
changes, drops away, and dies, his
place knows him no more. Yet nature can
always find another bird to sing the old
song, and the wind blows as it will through
all the long years, and the land wakes glad
and fragrant at the kiss of the pale dawn,
and plain daily labour goes on steadily,
unfeelingly, from generation to generation.
Birds will sing, stable buckets clatter, and
grooms whistle, so one fancies at times, just
as usual on the morning of the Last Day
itself.

Colonel Enderby, with the old w r lite
terrier trotting solemnly at his heels, paced
slowly up and down the long walk, thinking
of these things. One of the tinder-gardeners
sweeping fallen leaves and twigs off the
smooth gravel, stopped his work as he
passed by, and took a good long stare at
the Colonel. " He'd leered," as he told his
wife that evening over his supper, " already,

as Mr. Jack Enderby was come into it all ;
but he felt he'd like to know what sort of a
looking gentleman the other one was, considering
the old Squire was so terrible
spiteful again' him."

Perhaps we may as well take a good look
at Philip Enderby, too, as he moves along
under the garden front of the stately house
in the wind and the morning sunshine, and
see what manner of man he is  outwardly,
at all events. I am afraid it must be owned
frankly, at starting, that he is not at all an
obviously romantic figure. The Colonel is
turned eight and-forty, and is not unprosperous
looking  facts calculated, in the estimation
of most persons, to knock all prospects
of romance effectually on the head ! Further,
it must be owned that at no period of his
life has he been reckoned a handsome man.
All the same, there is a certain air of distinction
about him. He is rather over middle
height ; well made and well set-up  broad
across the chest and small round the loins ;
and possessing, too, even in the undress of
a rough shooting-coat and heavy boots, that
effect of spotless freshness and cleanliness

that is one of the most notable characteristics
of a well-bred Englishman. His
features are somewhat large and strongly
marked ; the nose aquiline, the mouth
hidden under a heavy light-brown moustache,
the ends of which the Colonel has a
habit of pulling downwards in meditative
fashion whenever he has anything a little
on his mind. His jaw is square and solid ;
his complexion originally fair, but now
tanned and dulled by travel and exposure.
His crisp short hair, a darker brown by
some two shades than his moustache, is as
thick as ever, and still untouched with grey
a fact which, though he is far from being
vain, does certainly yield him considerable
satisfaction.

Philip Enderby's eyes are the only point
in his personal appearance meriting unqualified
praise. They are deep-set under
straight eyebrows  real fighting eyes of
bright blue ; the pupil small, the iris large
and peculiarly rich and clear in colour.
Such eyes are habitually kind and friendly
enough ; but they can grow very keen and
ruthless when the blood is hot and an ugly

day's work has to be clone. Add our friend
here has seen an ugly day's work done more
than once in his life. He has seen more
than most men's share of battle and horror
and death. He looked at them steadily, not
without quick movements of pitying wonder
and disgust ; but chiefly with a stern sense
of his own immediate duty, which was to
put through the work in hand simply, and
even cheerfully, without any careful hesitation
or speculation concerning the ultimate
ethics of the situation.  This last sentence
seems to imply something of harshness and
cruelty, I fear ; but it may be questioned
whether any man will be of much active
use in the world who has not a residuum of
brutality left in him. In any case, it is
certain that in some natures, along with a
dash of harshness and cruelty  if one must
needs employ such unlovely terms  goes
tenderness of heart towards the weak and
unfortunate, delicate consideration for friend
or kinsman, and a devotion towards chosen
individuals so profound and constant that it
is almost perilous in its intensity.

The man of this temper who loves  still

more, who loves late  will do it with a
terrible completeness. Strength has its
dangers as well as weakness. They are
touched with dignity and splendour, it is
true ; but they are too often touched as
well with a species of desperation. These
simple whole-hearted natures, under the
dominion of a fixed idea, are horribly difficult
to cope with. Nothing turns them
aside. They will go through fire and water,
utterly regardless of the well-intentioned
remonstrances of the bystanders, to reach
the goal, whatever it may be.

In saying this, I do not mean for an
instant to suggest that this quiet, dignified,
and, alas ! middle-aged soldier, Colonel
Enderby, was at all disposed just now to
run mad upon love or any other matter.
The potential possibilities of a character
may never be developed in a given direction ;
but, thanks to circumstances, may remain
latent to the end. Far from indulging in
exaggeration of feeling or intention, he was
calmly making up his mind to accept the
inevitable ; to part with a hope that, though
but half-formulated, had been very dear to

him ; to retire gracefully from a difficult
position ; and not only conceal, but, if possible,
even forget his own disappointment
and injury.

For the Colonel paced up and down that
bright morning in front of the house at
Bassett Darcy, not as master, but as guest.
Old Mr. Enderby had bequeathed all his
property  houses, lands, plate, and other
possessions  to the younger of his two surviving
sons. Philip only inherited that
which would have come to him had his
elder brother, Matthew, lived  two-thirds
of his mother's fortune and a sum of money
left, in remainder, to him by name, in his
grandfather's will. He would no longer bea
poor man, it is true ; but to some persons,
even the assurance that in future they are
secure of a comfortable balance at their
bankers' will not wholly compensate for the
subjective discomfort of knowing themselves
to be the objects of an undying grudge.
This public and practical repudiation on the
part of his father was hard to bear. His
pride rebelled against it, as well as his
heart; and it was not without a struggle

that the Colonel schooled himself into
acquiescence.

As he stood still in the middle of the
broad walk, looking away over the river to
the wood and the levels of the grass park
beyond, something very like tears came into
his eyes. There was a depth of very
wholesome humanity in the man. It
would have been pleasant to him to settle
down here, with a wife and children  as
Jack was about to do, for instance  to
see another generation growing up about
him, full of hope and generous ambition ; to
move on, surrounded by kindly, faithful
faces and honest love, towards the inevitable,
but uncreated close. He could not
help feeling, rather sadly, that he had missed
a good deal in life. It was dreary work
looking at all this established security and
order from the point of view of a homeless
old bachelor. Colonel Enderby shook himself,
with a queer smile, and turned back to
the house again.

Ah ! well, it's no good quarrelling with
facts," he said, half aloud. "We all get
what we're best fitted for in the long run, I

suppose ; and it doesn't pay to cry over
spilt milk. Come along, Yic "  to the
terrier, who sat on the gravel, still contemplating
him with an air of inquiry 
"Fro. going indoors, like a sensible fellow,
to my breakfast."

Mr. Jack Enderby, meanwhile, notwithstanding
that at this moment Fortune appeared
to woo him with her broadest
smiles, was in an unhappy frame of mind.
Not that he was troubled with importunate
memories, or perplexed by the indifference
of universal nature to the fate of the individual
or any such high or intimate
matter. Jack was safely rooted in the
conventional and commonplace, and his
perturbations were of a purely concrete
order. But he was entirely unaccustomed
to feeling more than one thing at a
time, and just now he was a prey to many
conflicting sensations. He found it dreadfully
confusing. Jack's conscience did not
accuse him. He knew that he had brought
no undue influence to bear on his father
regarding the disposition of the property ;
yet still he was painfully aware of embarrassment

and discomfort in his elder brother's
presence. Not possessing any morbid or
ascetic views concerning the inherent value
of suffering, it seemed to him a little too
bad that he should be so extremely uncomfortable
when he was quite innocent of
wrong doing.

He had come to the conclusion the day
before that it was incumbent upon him to
make Colonel Enderby a handsome and
appropriate speech on the subject of the
property. But the house had been full of
people ; there had been a good deal of
movement and stir, and, after the funeral, a
tendency in the direction of wine and cold
baked meats, and general conversation ina
rising scale of cheerfulness. Mr. Peter
Carnage, the lawyer from Slowby, had
stayed to dinner. So had Dr. Symes  not
that the latter gentleman had any intention
of being bracketed socially with a country
solicitor. He stayed for reasons of his own.
He happened to have heard some dramatic
stories of those terrible years of the Indian
Mutiny, and he was anxious to make nearer
acquaintance with a man who had been a

not unextinguished actor in them. Dr.
Symes had remained, talking to the Colonel,
till late. There had realty been no favourable
opening for Jack Enderby's speech ;
and as he was not by any means glib,
unless he lost his temper, and as he stood
in mortal fear of fine talking and heroics, he
had not tried very hard to find an opening,
since none presented itself unsought.

Now this morning the prospect of that
same speech hung over him like a dark and
dreadful shadow, while at the same time
he was conscious of an elation so lively
that it made him wash, put on his boots,
and even tie his white tie  Mr. Enderby
had an instinct that it would be graceful
to emphasize the outward and visible signs
of his clerical profession at this juncture 
in time to a dashing triumphal march which
kept on thumping itself out in his brain.

"Matt can go to Eton," he thought,
and the girls can have new frocks whenever
they want them. Bates says there's
no end of first-rate wine in the cellars ; and
Augusta will look uncommonly well in those
diamonds of my poor dear mother's."

Then lie checked himself ; grew suddenly
serious, thought of Jacob and the birthright,
and of the nasty consequences in
some ways of his misappropriation of Esau's
blessing; and then of the virtues of the
law of entail, and of the sacred institution
of primogeniture  for Jack Enderby was a
devout Conservative.

"Every stick and stone on the estate
shall be strictly entailed on Matt at once*'
he said, rather illogically.

He pictured the nice string of hunters
he would have in those great barrack-like
stables before the year was out ; then
made another return upon his brother, and
w r ordered what on earth he should say to
him.

When the breakfast bell rang at last,
poor Mr. Enderby felt anything but gay.
The triumphal march died away into silence,
and he would have sacrificed a good deal of
prospective pleasure in the matter of wine and
horses to have avoided the next half-hour.

As Jack, with rather a rueful countenance,
came down into the square flagged
hall, the Colonel entered it by the front

door, letting a great rush of fresh, westerly
wind into the house with him. He came
forward, holding out his hand to his brother,
and looking him very frankly and kindly in
the face. There was a line serenity in his
expression as he did so.

"Good morning, Jack," he said. " I've
been round the dear old place. I'm glad
to find that with all the knocking about
the world that I've had, I have not forgotten
a single thing here. It seems as if
I hadn't been away a day."

He paused a moment, and then added
quickly.

God bless you, Jack, you and your
wife, and the children ! Good luck to you,
and your boys after you; they're jolly,
plucky little lads, and will keep up the
honour of the old name gallantly."

Colonel Enderby turned away, and went
across the hall to lay down his hat.

You'll give me a bed now and then,"
he said, "won't you, if I want to get away
from soldiering, and have a breath of my
native air? "

Jack Enderby was touched, distressed,

relieved, all at the same moment. The
number and diversity of his emotions did
not tend towards lucidity of thought or
expression.

"Upon my word'' he began, "I don't
know what on earth to say to you, my dear
fellow. I am in the most awfully awkward
position, you know. I've been wanting to
speak to you seriously ever since this all
came out about the property. It isn't
right, you know. It's infernally hard on
you, though I don't want to say anything
disrespectful about my poor father, of
course. But, you know, he was very high-handed
with me ; there was no getting
near certain subjects. He was as close
and reticent as could be about money
matters. I give you my word I hadn't a
notion till the day he died of the way he
meant to leave things, and even then he
only gave me a hint. I don't understand
it. I tell you, I don't know how to look
you in the face. I feel like  well, upon
my word, I don't know what I do feel
like," he added hopelessly. " It's most
uncommonly awkward for me, and your

taking it all in this wonderfully generous
sort of way makes it all the worse, that
it does."

Jack's voice grew a little shaky. He was
genuinely moved, though his form of utterance
was, it must be allowed, somewhat
elementary.

The Colonel came across from the table
on which he had laid down his hat. His
brother's incoherent address had pleased
him, and strengthened his willingness to
accept the situation unreservedly.

"It's all perfectly right as it is," he
answered. " You're cut out for a country
squire, Jack  it will suit you a good deal
better than preaching, eh ? And Augusta
is just fit for this sort of thing too. After
all, what do I want with a great barrack
of a house and an army of servants ? There,
we quite understand each other, and needn't
say any more about it. By the way," he
said presently, "it seems to me there is no
end of keep on South Park, just across the
river, simply wasting. I should put eighteen
or twenty beasts on it at once, if I was in
your place. I suspect you'll find the estate

VOL. I. E

wants a lot of looking after at first. Things
must have been a good deal neglected, since
my father's not been able to get about and
see into them himself."

Then the two men went into the diningroom,
chatting of stock, and horses, and
draining, and kindred subjects. And by
the time breakfast was over, the triumphal
march was thumping away as merrily as
ever again in Jack Enderby's head.

That evening as he stood smoking meditatively,
with his back to the library fire,
the Colonel said 

I think I shall get long leave, Jack,
and go abroad for a time, when all this
business is finally settled. I dare say
Edmund Drake would go with me. You
know, after all, I have seen next to nothing
of Europe."

He turned round and steadied a big log
that threatened to fall out on to the hearth
with his foot.

I feel as pleased as a schoolboy," he
went on, " at having some money in my
pocket to play ducks and drakes with."

CHAPTER III.

RETROSPECTIVE.

A brilliant American writer has told us
that in order to acquire a really comprehensive
and scientific understanding of the
personality of any given man or woman, it
would be necessary to go back to the garden
of Eden, and, beginning with our first
parents, to trace the gradual evolution of
the individual specimen down through the
ages, from the cradle of the human race to
the present day. This, doubtless, is strictly
true. It is, therefore, all the more a matter
for devout thankfulness, that such a course
is hedged about with obvious impossibility ;
for were it not so, there is no saying to
what gigantic proportions the biography of
the most obscure and uninteresting person
might reach ! Let me hasten to assure

UBRARf 
 fttWOIf

the reader that it is not for an instant
proposed in the present case to peer into
the backward abysm of things in this alarmingly
voluminous and tedious manner, in
the hope of therein discerning the ultimate
causes of present effects. The narrator
only desires, with all attainable brevity and
conciseness, to make a few statements
which may serve to throw some light upon
the fortunes and conduct of certain actors
in this little drama.

When Philip Enderby was about two-and-twenty
an event took place which very
sensibly affected his subsequent career. He
discovered one fine day that he was very
deeply in love  in love, too, with a young-lady
whose fortune would be pretty well
enclosed by the trunks in which she packed
her modest trousseau. The young man's
tastes were neither showy nor expensive.
He had, in fact, been blamelessly economical,
eking out his pay as subaltern in a marching
regiment, with the slender sum allowed
him, rather grudgingly, by his father, and
never forestalling quarter-day with inopportune
demands for advances. Now he

intimated that an increase of allowance
would enable him to marry, and that he
wanted to marry very much indeed.

But, unfortunately for poor Philip, he was
not, and never had been, a favourite with his
father, whose stock of parental affection was
rather exclusively bestowed upon his eldest
son, Matthew, a handsome, headstrong,
blustering fellow. Young Matt had left the
university, where he had distinguished himself
more in sporting and athletic than in
learned circles, very much in debt. His
father had just cleared him, so that Philip's
love affair and request for help came at a
singularly inconvenient season. In vulgar
terms, Mr. Enderby didn't see it at all.

What did that silly fellow, Philip, want
with a wife and a houseful of squalling brats
at his age ? " he asked. " The boy hadn't
half enough to do, kicking his heels at one
garrison town after another. A little good
hard work was what he wanted ; that would
knock the calf-love out of him soon enough,
xlnd then, who the devil is this Miss
Cecilia Murray ? " he added, not over-civilly.
" I never heard of her. Let

Philip take up with some girl with money y
in the county, whom we know something
about, and then it'll be plenty of time to
talk about increased allowances, and so on.
If they're so much in love, let 'em wait;
that's the only thing I can recommend to
'em."

Lieutenant Enderby and Cecilia Murray
proceeded to wait. Poor dears ! there was
nothing else very possible for them to do
under the circumstances, since they were
really attached to each other. They waited
dutifully during the space of a year. Then
the young lady began to lose her good looks
a little. She was one of those thin, under-vitalis
blondes who do not wear very well.
It became daily more evident that waiting
did not agree with her physically, though
the constancy of her heart might be as
great as ever. It was a pity, for Philip was
blessed with a large share of patient devotion.
He could have waited faithfully for a dozen
years for his Cecilia, and sworn at the end
of it that she was every bit as pretty as the
first day he met her.

Cecilia Murray's mother, however, was a

lady of experience, of resources, and of an
eminently practical turn of mind. Her own
marriage had not been exactly a conspicuous
success, since her husband had added to
various other incapacities the incapacity for
living long, and had left his wife, as a still
young and handsome woman, with a family
of portionless daughters on her hands.
Mrs. Murray permitted herself no illusions
in certain matters. She had realized with
disagreeable distinctness that, in the case of
a girl having little besides personal attractions
to recommend her, time is of supreme
value on this side of five-and-twenty.

With Cecilia's style of looks, freshness
is everything," she said, with praiseworthy
candour.

Acting upon this conviction the good lady
did not warmly encourage her daughter's
lover, whose material prospects struck her
as lacking in any brilliant promise. She
treated the young man with scant courtes',
and had, in fact, prepared to break off the
match altogether, when an unlooked-for
occurrence caused her suddenly to alter her
opinion as to the eligibility of his suit.

It was in the winter-time that young
Matthew Enderby, troubled about money
matters and thirsty for some fresh amusement,
elected to come to the quaint cathedral
town in the north, where his brother's regiment
was then quartered, and spend a week
with him. Matfc was in very low water
again ; his debts were heavy, and he could
not make up his mind to tell his father
frankly about them. Between horses and
dogs, billiards and racing, and little runs upto
London, the young gentleman had contrived
to get his affairs into a sufficiently
desperate condition. The Squire's temper
was short at times even with his eldest and
best-loved son ; and Matt neither relished
the idea of embarking in a slightly discreditable
confession, or of risking his
position of first favourite with his father.
He was in the state of mind in which a man
is willing to clutch at remote and improbable
chances of salvation. Philip was devoted
to him, he knew. Philip was a generous
fellow and might be able to help him. At
worse, Philip could be coaxed into breaking
the whole thing to his mother  whose

darling lie was  and through her Matt
might get the assistance he wanted without
the unpleasantness of a personal statement.
Filled with these vague hopes and
round-about intentions, he started on his
pilgrimage to the northern city; but once
there the desire to cut a figure, win admiration,
and get himself talked about, returned
upon him to the exclusion of more prudent
considerations. The week of his stay extended
itself into three, and during those
three weeks Matthew Enderby might certainly
congratulate himself on having made
a mark  of a kind.

One night, or rather, early one morning,
the two brothers, and a young fellow-officer
of Philip's, Beaumont Pierce-Dawnay, byname,
were returning from a somewhat
uproarious bachelor's dinner-party at a
neighbouring country-house. Matt had
taken more wine than was good for him ;
he had played cards and lost heavily.
He was excited and angry, and tried to
carry off his uncomfortable sensations by an
extra amount of swagger and bluster. When
the high two-wheeled dog-cart, in which the

three young men were going to drive back y
came to the door, Beau Pierce-Dawnay said,
with a significant glance, to Philip  

You'd better drive, old man. You're
the steadiest of the lot, and that horse is a
nasty vicious brute, and stumbles into the
bargain."

But Matthew chose to regard this as an
unwarrantable act of interference. He was
in the humour to pick a quarrel with anyone,
and the other man's imperturbable
good-temper had been a source of irritation
to him all the evening. With some insolence,
he said he had hired the trap himself
; he knew very well what he was about ;
he had driven out, and he was going to drive
back again. If Mr. Pierce-Dawnay was
afflicted with nervousness he could walk, as
far as he, Matt, was concerned, and welcome.

Beau, however, was far from quarrelsome ;
he got up behind the dog-cart with a good-natured
laugh.

Oh ! I don't care a rap," he said. " I
can stick on here tight enough. If the
horse comes down, you and Philip '11 get the
broken necks, you know, not I."

This speech did not tend to soothe
Matthew Enderby. The horse justified the
evil opinion given of it, and the young man,
half from recklessness, half from temper,
drove wildly, and frightened and fretted the
ill-conditioned animal into a perfect fever.
At last, at the top of a long, steep hill, Matt
lost all patience, and flung the reins petulantly
to his brother.

There, catch hold," he cried. " I shall
get mad and cut the brute to pieces in a
minute. I want to light my pipe. Hold
him up, you fool! w T hat are you at, letting
him gander about the road in that
fashion?"

Philip caught hold of the reins as best he
could ; but the slap of them on the horseback,
as Matt threw them to him, had
thoroughly scared it. The horse bolted.
Philip was almost helpless ; he was sitting
low, and driving from the wrong side too ; he
could not get any purchase on the horse's
mouth. Matt, perceiving the danger, made
a clutch at the reins again, with an oath,
and succeeded in giving a violent wrench
to the right hand one. The horse swerved,

crossed its fore legs, and. came down like a
lump of lead on the hard frosty road.

The next thing Philip remembered was
standing out in the roadway, with 
by him. He was not much hurt
himself, but an indefinable dread was upon
him. He w T went over to the further side
of the broken-down carriage. There was a
great heap of stones on the grass by the
roadway,  and across the heap, just where
the light of the lamp fell, lay poor young
Matthew Enderby. He w r ould never swagger,
or play cards, or get into debt again, in this
world.

Some grief is unapproachable ; it resists
sympathy almost as an insult, and nurses
itself in black silence and gloom. So it was
with the Squire. He did not say much
about his son's death, but he brooded over
it in heavy speechless wretchedness. He
could not accustom his mind to it ; he
had a sense of unpardonable injury and
wrong. The house at Bassett became a sad
place. Jack was up at college, and he went
home as little possible, though the fact
of his being blessed by nature with many

characteristics of the true Enderby type
made his presence rather welcome than
otherwise to his father. Towards Philip the
Squire felt with deep unreasoning bitterness.
The thought that this boy, for whom he had
never cared greatly, who did not resemble
the rest of the family either in looks or in
temperament, would take his dashing elder
brother's place, was hateful to him. Heretofore
Philip had been simply uninteresting
to his father; he was uninteresting no longer,
he was obnoxious. If one of the two lads
must go, why had not Fate selected him ?
The Squire could have spared him well
enough, if it came to that.

Meanwhile, Philip himself was half brokenhearted.
Death, in kindly fashion, rubs out
the remembrance of past faults and follies,
and leaves generally a fair and gracious
picture of those we have loved. Their
virtues seem altogether their own, and their
vices no vital or integral part of them, but
merely an unsightly smirch easily washed
away and obliterated. Ever since the days
when Matt's tin soldiers invariably won
glorious victories on the floor of the Bassett

Darcy nursery, over his own unsuccessful
squadrons, lying prone and scattered on the
ground, Philip had always admired his handsome,
headstrong elder brother, and yielded
him the first place willingly, even gladly.
It was horrible that Matt, who was so
brilliant and taking, who promised to support
the family name in such an open-handed
manner, who enjoyed life so vastly, should
have been snatched away thus at a moment's
notice.

But people were kind to Philip in his distress.
Mrs. Murray, notably, was far kinder
than she had ever been before. Her affection
seemed to rise with extraordinary rapidity
from zero to boiling-point. She welcomed
him to her house, and quite advertised the
fact of her daughter's engagement. Perhaps
our friend Philip was pitiably inexperienced
in those days. He accepted Mrs. Murray's
attentions with the warmest gratitude, while
it never occurred to him to inquire as to the
root from which they might spring.

Mrs. Murray's affection, however, was
tempered with astuteness. As time passed
by, she began again to cast a doubtful eye

on the young man's pretensions. He was
in all probability secure of a good position
and large fortune now ; but then, his father
as far as Mrs. Murray could make out 
was the sort of man who might live for
ever. Meanwhile, Cecilia had other admirers.
The good lady weighed the bird
in the hand against the birds in the bush ;
and, unless the former should develop
sudden and unexpected plumpness, felt it
would be advisable to relinquish her hold on
it, and employ both hands in trying to catch
one of those other birds that were still at
liberty. She announced one day, to the
young man's surprise, that she had really
given him time enough ; it looked bad for a
girl to be hanging on with a long uncertain
engagement like this ; Mr. Enderby must
shilly-shally no longer; Cecilia, poor dear
child, was growing wretchedly worn and
peaky ; Mr. Enderby must many her at
once, on a good income  " such an income
as will be in keeping with your position and
prospects, you know "  or not at all.

Philip was a good deal startled, both by
the announcement itself, and the tone in

which it was conceived. There was one
clause in it, notably, that offended both
his taste and good feeling. Still he was
very much in love. He wrote home to his
mother to say he was coming, and then
w r went down to Bassett resolved to renew his
request to his father.

As long as he lived he remembered the
events of that evening with painful distinctness.
The dinner was not a cheerful one.
The Squire was moody, and hardly spoke,
except to give an order to the servants.
Mrs. Enderby, with gentle tact and self-sacrificing
sweetness, tried to ignore her
husband's surly pre-occupation and to talk
as usual ; but she was nervous, and the
conversation sank away again into anxious
silence. Philip found his father's manner
anything but reassuring ; as the saying is r
his heart was in his mouth.

When Mrs. Enderby had left the diningroom,
Philip told his little story  told it
in a modest, quiet, manly way. There was
a trace of pathos in the young man's bearing
as he pleaded his cause, which some
hearers would have found affecting. But

Mr. Enderby was not easily affected. He
turned his chair sideways, leaned his elbow
on the table, and answered Philip over his
shoulder, without taking the trouble to look
at him.

"I told you my opinion of this foolish
business of yours two years ago," he said;
"it hasn't changed."

"You told us to wait, sir, and we have
waited," answered Philip.

Mr. Enderby put his hand on the decanter
standing by him, and refilled his
glass.

"And the girl's got tired of waiting, I
suppose  thinks you can ask for whatever
you like now and get it ; and you think the
same, no doubt. You're in a pretty hurry,
I dare say, to step into your dead brother's
shoes."

You've no right to say that, sir," flashed
out Philip, hotly. " I've given you no
cause for such a supposition. Such a
thought never entered my head, or hers
either. She was good enough to care forme
long ago, when certainly nobody could
accuse her affection of being mercenary."

VOL. I. F

u I'm glad to hear it," returned the elder
man slowly. " It's as well you should
know just where you stand. If you thought
your brother's death would improve your
prospects, you were mistaken, that's all.
It won't make a penny's difference to you,
while I live."

Mr. Enderby swallowed down his glass
of porfc, and then broke out suddenly and
violently 

But for you, Matt might have been alive
now. You were drunk ! "

Philip set his teeth hard. He went as
white as the table-cloth before him.

"I don't drink, sir," he said, " and you
know it. I was as sober as I am at this
moment. Pierce-Dawnay was with us ; he
told you so at the time."

"Pierce-Dawnay w T as your friend, not
Matt's. What proof have I that he didn't
try to make the best of a bad job, and say
wdiat he could to shield you ? "

"He's my friend, as you say; but he is
a gentleman all the same, sir. He is not in
the habit of telling lies."

How far sullen brooding grief had really

perverted Matthew Enderby's reason, and
made him harbour ugly suspicions against
his son ; how far he was merely actuated by
a bullying desire to pain and humiliate the
young man, it would be difficult to determine.
Probably the tw r o causes were too
subtly mixed to be capable of separation.
He sunk his head on his breast, and spoke
with brutal deliberation.

So much the worse for you, then, if you
were sober. That doesn't put your conduct
in a better light, as far as I can see. You
can drive well enough when it pays you to
drive well."

Philip sprang up from his place and came
round in front of his father. His expression
was full of uncontrollable amazement and
horror.

What on earth do you mean, sir ? " he
cried. " What are you daring to hint at ?
Do you know what a dastardly thing your
words seem to imply? "

Mr. Enderby looked up at him without
raising his head. His dull eyes were bloodshot
and his face flushed with passion ashe
answered : 

"By God! I tell you some people would
say you knew very well what you were
about when you pitched Matt out on to
that cursed heap of stones. This is a fine
property, and you were my second son.
Foul play has been heard of for a lighter
stake than that before now."

Some ten minutes later Philip rushed out
into the hall, letting the door slam heavily
behind him. As he did so, Mrs. Enderby
moved forward in the firelight to meet him.
She had been too anxious to rest by herself
during this critical interview between her son
and husband. She came back into the hall
again, and stood near the wide open fireplace,
listening with deepening fear and sorrow to
the fierce voices in the dining-room.

Philip's tempest of anger died down as he
caught sight of his mother. He put his
arms round the frail, delicate woman in a
sudden agony of tenderness.

Come away to your room, mother," he
said huskily; " I have got to say good-bye
to you."

Poor Mrs. Enderby clung to him trembling.


Oh, you have quarrelled!" she cried.
My dearest, if you love me, go back
and make it up. Remember, your father
is very quick-tempered ; he often says
things he regrets later, when he has recovered
himself. And he is very sore
about dear Matt ; you know how he loved
him. He cannot submit to this trial; it
makes him hasty and bitter. All his hopes
were centred in Matt. And then, too, he
has been troubled about business. He has
been tried, Philip, cruelly tried and harassed.
Remember all this, dear. Go and make it
up with him, for my sake. If he has been
a little hard with you, try to bear it  don't
be stubborn, Philip ; try to meet him halfway."


The young man did not answer till they
had crossed the hall and entered Mrs.
Enderby's little sitting-room. She stood
by him, still clasping his hand, and looking
with sweet piteous earnestness in his
face.

"No, mother," he said; " the apology
must come from him, not from me. It
can't be made up unless he withdraws

certain accusations lie has made against
me."

"Then it will never be made up," said
Mrs. Enderby, in a low voice.

He has accused me of a hideous
action," Philip went on, U of something
preposterous, vile, unnatural. I cannot
tell you about it. I had better never have
been born than have dreamed of it even for
an instant."

Philip flung himself down on his knees
before her, and held her about the waist,
pressing his face against her gown.

Mother, promise me that you, at least,
will never doubt me ; that you'll never
listen to any suggestions he throws out
about me ; that you will keep me in your
heart of hearts ; that you'll never let anything
cloud your love for me. Promise me,
mother, to believe in me always, before I go."

In the poor boy's weakness Mrs. Enderby
found an unexpected calm and strength.

Stand up, Philip," she said gently. She
laid her hands on his shoulders, and
looked deep into his blue eyes. " I believe
in you completely and truly, Philip.

Nothing can shake my faith in you. This
is a terrible delusion that has taken
possession of your father's mind, the fruit
of sorrow. You must not hold him accountable
for it. Thoughts take hold of us
sometimes which it is as impossible to drive
away as it is to rid ourselves of disease itself.
But they pass after a time, and we shake
off the remembrance of them as we shake
off the remembrance of a wretched dream,
with infinite thankfulness and relief. Please
God, it may be so in this case, and that
before very long you may come back to me
again. Ah ! you are very dear to me,
Philip. You have been the stay and
comfort of my life ; you have been son and
daughter to me, both in one."

Mrs. Enderby could not manage to say
more. The two stood looking at each
other for a few minutes in silence. Then
Philip bent down and kissed his mother,
and went away.

The proverb says troubles rarely come
singly. To Philip Enderby they seemed to
come in legions just at this time. Mrs.
Murray was pitiless ; as the income was

not forthcoming on the one part, the bride
was not forthcoming on the other. She
developed an admirable sense of duty 
feared that the young man must have
behaved shamefully to his father to cause
this rupture and denial. A bad son is
calculated to make but a sorry husband.
Cecilia's happiness must not be endangered.
Mrs. Murray felt it would be both immoral
and impolitic to put a premium on filial
disobedience. On the highest grounds she
therefore entirely refused to think of Mr.
Enderby as a possible son-in-law.

So there was an end to Philip's budding
romance. At one stroke he found himself
bereft alike of parents, home, and mistress,
and throw T n upon the world as a mere
soldier of fortune. With his faithful and
affectionate nature, he was bound to suffer
very deeply under this accumulation of
misfortunes. I do not wish to draw a fancy
portrait of the young man, and hold him upas
a model of fortitude and virtue. On the
contrary, I must admit that for a time after
the final breaking off of his engagement,
it seemed a little doubtful whether Philip

was not determined to set out on that
unprofitable journey, commonly known as
going to the bad." He was so miserable,
poor fellow, that he was sorely tempted to
drown misery in debauch. But, perhaps his
mother's prayers, perhaps a certain innate
purity and sweetness, which at bottom
made riot disgusting to him, called Philip
back before he had sunk very deep in the
slough. He recovered his footing on the
solid ground of good living, and, not without
a hot sense of shame and self-reproach in
face of his past aberrations, took, once and
for all, to wiser courses.

Great public events, too, came at this
crisis indirectly to his aid. The year 1854
saw the beginning of a war which we are
now assured was highly discreditable, if not
actually iniquitous. Be that as it may, the
fact remains  happily or unhappily, I know
not which  that men may fight as gallantly
in a bad cause as a good one, and that the
moral effect on individuals may be as
salutary when they suffer, struggle, and
endure in an unjust quarrel as in a just one.
Philip Enderby began to show what spirit

he was truly of. He emerged, he distinguished
himself. Later, during the
hideous months of the Indian Mutiny, his
name obtained a rather enviable notoriety.
The plain slender young fellow 7 , whose
quiet ways had made him something of a
butt for the wits of his regiment, developed
both mentally and physically. India, for
some years after the rebellion, offered
brilliant opportunities to soldiers who had
the wit to take advantage of them ; and
Philip's patience, constancy, and courage
had already marked him out as a person
to be entrusted with delicate or hazardous
work. As the young man could not marry
his love, he decided to marry his sword,
and contrived, as time went on, to carve
out for himself a sufficiently distinct place
in the world with that somewhat uncultivated
instrument.

A certain simplicity and directness of
purpose never left him. But as he grew
older, Philip Enderby was not a person
with whom it was advisable to take a
liberty. It came to be understood that
some matters must not be spoken of lightly

before him  a woman's reputation must
not be smiled away, or a man's moral delinquencies
too easily condoned. Younger
men were disposed to think him a trifle too
rigid in matters of virtue and religion for
the entire comfort of his neighbours  a
person given to slight exaggerations, stern,
and not altogether easy to get on with.
Yet every one admitted that he was kindly
too, a faithful friend, and a fine officer. At
eight-and-forty the Colonel's position was
acknowledged and assured. He had escaped
many dangers, resisted many temptations ;
and as yet, perhaps fortunately for himself,
he had been very true to the memory of his
first love.

And Mrs. Enderby ? Loving both husband
and son, nothing was left her but to
live by faith. But faith, unassisted by recurrent
and encouraging revelations, is a
lean and far from nourishing diet. Mrs.
Enderby did not thrive upon it. As day
after day and month after month passed
by, without any change or sign of relenting
on the part of the Squire towards Philip,
faith began to grow weak, and Mrs. Enderby

began to grow weak also. She hungered
after her boy. He had been a good and
gentle son to her ever since the time when,
clad in a round holland pinafore and white
tucked drawers, he had trotted after her
up and down the long passages at Bassett
Darcy, and about the sheltered, high-walled
gardens, fragrant w 7 with the scent of pinks
and mignonette. Later, he had never failed
to scrawl her a weekly letter from school,
containing an ill-spelled chronicle of rudimentary
joys and sorrows. And afterwards,
when he went into the army  while through
many wakeful nights, in the great blue bedroom
over the hall, she had wrestled in
prayer for him, and agonized over those, to
her, mysterious temptations that are supposed
specially to beset young gentlemen
of the upper classes  she had always found
him come home to her, as quiet and simple
and tenderly thoughtful as ever.

Only once did she venture to break the
silence which her husband maintained upon
the subject of his quarrel with his son ; and
then the Squire's fierce, unreasoning violence
terrified her into patient submission again.

Mrs. Enderby could cling to her love, but
she could not fight for it. As time went
on, she fell into a strange habit of sitting
silent and unemployed in the large, dusky
saloon, overlooking the broad, smooth lawn
and lazy river. She would not go out
much ; she shrank from meeting her neighbours,
or even from stepping in and out of
the cottages, with a basket of dainties on
her arm, which she distributed along with
the most sulphureous of tracts, and the very
mildest of personal advice. Sometimes she
seemed to be bewildered, and hardly to know
what she was doing. Unpleasant rumours
got about concerning her ; people said poor
Mrs. Enderby' s mind was going.

Medical science, in the neat and drily
attentive person of Dr. Hideous of Slowby 
it was before the day of Dr. Symes and the
local pre-eminence of Tullingworth  owned
itself baffled. There was no organic disease
discoverable, and yet the poor lady was
evidently sinking.

The feeble flame of Mrs. Enderby's life
flickered up fitfully whenever her husband
entered the room. Hope lingers with us,

and old habits assert themselves even when
the sands have run very low, and the feet
of the mourners are near the door. She
told him that there was " nothing really the
matter. She was only very weak, and
would be better again in a day or so."

But the day on which Mrs. Enderby would
be better never dawned. That nickering
flame sank slowly down till it was quenched
in darkness, and Mrs. Enderby lay dead.
She had paid the penalty of too great faith
and love. Virtues should be of a strictly
limited order, one sometimes fears, if they
are to bring their possessors in a comfortable
dividend on this side the grave.

Matthew Enderby missed his wife very
keenly. He had loved her truly, according
to his lights. The custom of many years
had made her presence necessary to him,
and her death seemed somewhat of an impertinence.
It was the only independent
action she had taken, save a certain tremulous
support given to Philip's love affair,
since he married her. Mr. Enderby could
hardly understand it. He was sad, lonely,
angry ; and his anger, not perhaps unnaturally,

vented it self in implacable hostility
towards the son, whose action, he persuaded
himself, was, if indirectly, still certainly
connected with his wife's long illness and
death.

VOL. I.

THE THEE ADS BEGIN TO Cross.

Compared with many of its sister towns
situated along the shores of the Gulf of
Genoa, Terzia cannot claim to be a very
pretty place. It is too full of the whir of
machinery, the clank and clang of hammers,
and the dust of workshops to be altogether
pleasant. The beautiful old ship-building
trade, formerly the wealth of this part of
the coast, is fast dying out ; but a few half-finished
wooden vessels, with an olive branch
at the prow, stand on the stocks in the
large half-deserted yards on the grey seashore.
Iron and steam, strong and unpoetic,
have it pretty much all their own way
nowadays. The famous Corniche Road, too,
is here narrowed to a sort of straggling
street between high vineyard walls and tall

painted houses; and  whether it appears
as a sea of pale mud, or is smothered in
paler and at least equally objectionable
dust  is always, wet or dry, a perfect
pandemonium of rough two-wheeled waggons,
loaded with heavy cotton bales, sacks
of rags, or with great barrels piled up to an
alarming height, and of straining mules and
horses, and yelling drivers, and grating
tram cars.

Yet if you leave the busy little town,
with its teeming streets, and wander up the
steep paved lanes behind between the vineyards,
and if, when you have passed the
last of the red and yellow walls, and step
out into the open olive grounds above, you
stop and turn, and look back, the scene is
very moving and inspiring even here. For
you are in Italy, after all  beautiful, passionate,
terrible Italy.

About a quarter of a mile out of Terzia,
going eastward towards Genoa, you come
to some rusty iron gates in the high, red-plastered
wall that skirts the road on the
left. A broad carriage-way leads from
these gates first across flat market-gardens,

in which the peasants work, with sleeves
and trousers stripped up, showing bare,
muscular brown arms and legs ; then,
turning sharply to the left, it runs at the
foot of a natural cliff of buff-coloured rock,
supported here and there by masonry. After
thirty yards or so the road turns to the
right and climbs the hill, shaded on the
south by a line of dwarfed and distorted
fir trees, and with broad spaces of grass on
each side of it, bright in the spring-time
with name-coloured gladiolas, red orchis,
and blue-feather hyacinth. Another zigzag,
through vineyard terraces and broken rocks,
among which the fig trees root themselves,
and straggle a maze of smooth grey branches,
grey roots and glossy dark-green leaves,
and then at last you reach the final bit
of the ascent  a broad carriage-way still,
gravelled with little black and white pebbles
from the neighbouring beach, a wall of brick
and rock on the left hand, and on the right
a drop into the vineyard below. On either
hand the road is bordered with hedges of
pink monthly roses, wherein the cicada,
with their great eyes and foolish faces, sit

fiddling all day long in the hot sunshine.
The carriage-drive ends at last in a wide
gravelled terrace in front of a small orange-red
stuccoed villa.

Standing on this high terrace, where the
noises of the road, the railway, and the
town  the ring of hammers, crack of whips,
and wild cry of the muleteers  reach you,
softened and harmonized hy distance, the
scene is a very noble one.

In the south the purple sea rises and
meets the sky-line. The grey sweep of the
narrow beach trends away in a bold curve,
here bordered by gleaming houses, and there
broken by some dark densely wooded promontory,
past cape after cape, and headland
after headland to the westward. Just below
lies the town, built in massive blocks of
tall many-windowed houses, which have
flat or low-pitched roofs, and are painted
every conceivable colour, from the lightest
green or yellow to the deepest blue or
chocolate. At the back of the town, and
rising tier above tier up the sloping foothills,
are vineyards and gardens, with now
and again some gaily coloured villa, or the

tall campanile of a village church. Here
and there long lines of cypresses follow
each other in a dark and mystic procession
down the hillside, marking the boundary
of a landowner's property. x\bove, the
olive-grounds stretch in a misty silver belt
around the slopes. Above them are thickets
of great white heath, and sweet bay and
myrtle, with the quaint, blotted form of
an umbrella pine, disengaging itself sharply
in places from the undergrowth. Above,
again, are dusky fir-woods, and then at
last your eyes rest on the bare arid mountain
sides towering up in the searching
sunlight, the summits crowned by a pilgrimage
church or monastery, or risingnaked,
unadorned, and harsh against the sky.

The Apennines behind Terzia may be
described as a giant hand pointing seaward,
with deep ravines and watercourses between
the gigantic outstretched fingers. Only
the town and beach and road are pale ; all
the rest  woods, mountains, rich purple
sea, and rich purple sky  glow and palpitate
with intensity of colour ; while in
the extreme west, above the deep blue of

far-off hills and capes, soaring up into
the clear ether, rise the glittering peaks
and dazzling snow-wastes of the Maritime
Alps.

Towards the latter end of April, 1877,
about six months after old Matthew Enderby's
death, one burning afternoon, the
subject for a delightful little picture might
have been found on the terrace up at the
Villa Mortally.

A low broad parapet of stone, stuccoed
and painted the same orange-red as the
house, guards the terrace in front. Looking
down over it there is a sheer drop of
some five-and-twenty, or perhaps thirty feet,
into the vineyard below. At this time the
leaves were just breaking, and a delicate
veil of green spread itself over the face of
the vineyards.

In the corner of the terrace, away from
the carriage-drive, with her back against a
trellised and somewhat dilapidated arbour,
smothered in Wistaria and climbing roses,
sat a young girl. She rested one elbow on
the low wall by her side, and held in the
other hand a great red umbrella ;  not one

of those mean little scarlet parasols that
ladies affected so much some few years ago,
but a real, honest, peasant's umbrella, big
enough to shelter a whole family from sun
or rain, and decorated round the edge of it
with a barbaric pattern, woven in staring
black and white and yellow.

The young lady was very simply dressed
in a plain light cotton gown, which had,
however, an admirable air of freshness and
crispness in every fold and frill of it. Her
figure was slight but delicately rounded,
and her face was charming; not strictly
beautiful, perhaps, for there were delightful
little touches of individuality about it which
prevented its belonging to any stereotyped
and obvious order of female loveliness. It
was just that  an entirely charming face,
bright, out-looking, and with a sort of morning
clearness upon it, and an effect of guilelessness
which made one disposed to treat
this young lady more as an attractive child
than as a person who had already reached
the tiresome period of life technically described
as  years of discretion.

Her hair  fair, with golden lights and

ruddy shadows in it  was gathered up high
at the back, showing the shape of her
head, arid curled prettily upon her forehead.
Her complexion was fair, too, with a clear
healthy tinge of red in her cheeks ; the
nose, a little uncertain in line, but daintily
cut about the tip and small curved nostrils ;
the mouth round and sweet, though wanting
in those generous curves about the lips
which make some mouths so nobly beautiful.
Her eyes, a clear blue-grey, w T ere set
perhaps just a trifle too near together ; still,
they were finely shaped, and opened well.
There was nothing too positive, too definite
in the girl's face. Her long eyelashes and
arched eyebrows were but a few shades
darker than her bright hair.

Altogether she was charming; and charming,
too, with that peculiar indescribable
charm that belongs to certain women 
a magnetic quality not dependent on
faultlessness of physical beauty for its
existence, but a something beguiling and
upsetting, especially to the masculine sense ,
which seems to emanate from the whole
person.

Certain women have a singular power of
establishing a relation  I do not know how
else to put it  with almost every man they
come across. How it is done I cannot
pretend to say; for one may be very sensible
of an effect, and remain entirely unable to
analyze the cause of it. Only I fancy that
every woman whose name has come down
to us through the long centuries with a
glamour of magic about it, so that the
very sound of it makes the blood pulse
more quickly, must, in some degree, have
possessed that strange power. Helen must
have had it, or Troy town would never
have suffered long sorrow and fire and final
desolation. All those gracious and noble
ladies must have had it whose remembrance
is enshrined for ever in the "Ballade des
Dames du temps jadis" of Francois Villon,
thief, profligate, and writer of imperishable
verse. Catherine of Siena must have had
it, or never, surely, would popes and priests
and princes have listened so humbly to her
chiding. Julie derange  most moving, if
most imprudent of fictitious heroines  must
have had it, or M. de Colmar would never

have married her, any more than Saint-preux
would have broken his heart for her
among the rocks above the blue lake at
Meillerie. These, and many more : for the
list would be a long one of potent and
perilous names. Yes, we had better forget
them, we sensible middle-aged people, and
let them fade away into the great unknown
along with " the snows of yester year."

In saying all this I do not, for a moment,
desire to imply that there was anything
very wonderful, extraordinary, or epoch-making
about the girl sitting in the Italian
sunshine, on the terrace up at the little red
villa ;. nor do I, for a moment, purpose to
compare her with those queens of fiction,
life, and legend whose memory comes over
us with so dangerous a strength.

The indefinable charm I have spoken of
greets you in many and very different places.
It belongs exclusively to no one age, or
class, or nation; it may be found both in
saint and sinner. It may look out at you
alike from the face of a labourer's daughter,
bending over a steaming and prosaic washtub,
and from that of a child in the perky,

progressive class-room of a modern board-school,
and from that of some well-bred and
well-known woman moving in the sacred,
innermost circle of London or Parisian
society. Still it is not very common  perhaps
fortunately  all the same. The plain,
steady, common-sense w r work of the world
would hardly keep on quite so regularly if
it was very common. And it is only fair
to add, too, that hundreds and thousands
of women have been honoured highly and
loved devotedly who possessed no trace of
it. It is a peculiar gift to chosen individuals
; it comes to them by nature, and
was never learnt, nor taught of any yet.
Only, wherever you meet with it, the colour
grows richer and the pace faster, and Love
laughs aloud with the hope of another
victim ; and life either spreads out before
you strangely fair, and deep, and full, oris
stained for ever after with the memory
of a great regret.

On the low red wall, just beyond the
shadow cast by the big umbrella, sitting
hunched together basking in the sunshine,
was a good-sized brown monkey; a grotesque-and

sorrowful little figure, curiously iu
contrast with that of the young girl.

Centuries of disappointment and fruitless
endeavour seemed to have wrinkled the
loose skin on his forehead. Occasionally
he reached round and scratched his back
with one thin, brown hand, or made a fierce,
rapid grab at the small green lizards that
ran glittering up and along the sunny wall.
If the girl moved, ever so slightly, he looked
round sharply at her, with that quick uplifting
of the eyebrows and gleam of the sad
shrewd eyes, which go to make a monkey's
face so unspeakably restless and painful.

The cicada shrilled in the rose-bushes,
while the green frogs, at the old tank away
along the vineyard path to the left, kept
up the chorus immortalized by Aristophanes.
The jangle of bells came down from one of
the village churches on the hillside above,
and the grate of wheels and cry of the muleteers
came up from the crowded road below.
Little playful winds swept across from the
deep mountain valleys, scattered a few loose
petals of the roses on the trellised arbour,
and then wandered away out to sea. And

the charming girl sat dreaming, looking
lazily out over the brilliant scene from
under the rosy shade of her red umbrella,
while the brown monkey beside her basked
in the broad sunshine, musing, perhaps,
in perplexity of spirit, on the many griefs
and wrongs of his strange half-human
race.

There seemed a pause, a space of sweet
sunny waiting, up at the Villa Alortelli that
afternoon. The lights were lit, and the
curtain was up, and the stage was set and
ready. When would the rest of the actors
come on ?

About five o'clock the young lady's lazy
reverie was brought to a close by the
rattling of a carriage up the steep road
between the rose-hedges, and the grinding
of the loose gravel under its wheels as it
drew up at the front door.

She had watched the carriage ever since
it turned in at the iron gates off the highroad
 had stretched herself a little, and sat
up with a growing expression of interest
and vivacity in her pretty face.

Malvolio," she said, leaning towards the

monkey as she spoke, " I perceive that
there has been a slight mistake. Your poor
master is grilling himself quite needlessly
at Terzia railway station all this while.
His temper w T ill he execrable when he
returns. He will not be able to forgive
himself for having been coerced into committing
a civility. Prepare yourself, my
dearest little beast;" she added, " there will
shortly be remarkable developments in the
situation."

The monkey gazed at her anxiously, as
though trying hard to understand. He
scratched his ugly little head, wrinkled up
his forehead, and grinned rather wickedly.
The girl watched him attentively for a
moment or two, and then laughed gaily
and softly, as a child does with a delicious
anticipation of coming amusement.

"Anything is delightful in the way of
a change, isn't it, my excellent Malvolio ? "
she said to the monkey.

Colonel Enderby was a long-suffering
man. As a rule he could put up resignedly
with a large amount of discomfort. But
he had come to visit Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay,

at the Villa Mortelli, out of the purest sense
of duty. She was the widow of au old
Mend, and the Colonel had a high respect
for the claims of friendship, even in the
second degree. Still, it must be allowed
that where duty is the sole motive power,
small annoyances are liable to take a very
strong hold upon the imagination ; and ashe
got out cf the carriage, Colonel Enderby
certainly felt far from urbane. He was
choked with dust and roasted with the
blazing afternoon sun. He had left his
travelling companion seated over the remnants
of an excellent luncheon in the shaded
hall of a Genoese cafe. The thought of
Edmund Drake smoking peacefully in that
cool and stately place had been distinctly
irritating. He could have found it in his
heart to use some rather forcible expressions
concerning these few miles of road out
from Genoa. He was prepared to state on
oath, if necessary, that they were simply
the most hot, arid, ugly, and generally
insufferable miles of road in the known
world.

The untidy plausible Italian coachman

VOL. I. H

rang the bell, and then banged casually on
the door with the handle of his whip, to
hurry the servants within ; but no sound
was audible indoors. Bells, apparently,
were answered with truly artistic deliberation
at the little red villa.

Colonel Enderby stamped his feet to
settle his trousers down over his boots, and
beat himself a little with his gloves to get
some of the pale dust off his coat, looking
rather gloomy and injured all the while. It
was extremely unpleasant to him to be
otherwise than absolutely neat and clean.
He glanced critically at the pair of small,
weedy carriage horses, who stood with heads
hanging wearily down and streaming flanks.
Then he turned impatiently to the door
again.

Nuisance it is, waiting ! " he said. " I
suppose this is the right house ? Why on
earth don't they answer the bell ? "

Looking up as he spoke, he became aware,
for the first time, of the presence of the
young lady, who stood watching him from
the other side of the terrace. He was conscious
of a slight shock of surprise, and of

a sincere hope that she might riot have
overheard, his hasty observation. He lifted
his hat, and. keeping it in his hand, passed
round, in front of the horses' heads and.
walked across the terrace towards her.

The girl, too, came a few steps forward.
Her light cotton gown showed a rosy red
in the shade of her big umbrella. Her eyes
were very bright, and. she was smiling. It
was a smile not easily forgotten  brilliant,
irresistible, delicious to look at, and liable
to retain a prominent place subsequently
in the mental vision.

As she came forward the monkey scrambled
down off the wall and followed her, seizing
the folds of her dress with his long narrow
hands for support. He chattered angrily
at the carriage and the approaching stranger
his queer wizened countenance distorted
with emotion. Meanwhile the good-looking
Italian driver, leaning lazily against the
nearest of his smoking horses, laughed and
made grimaces at the poor little creature,
exciting him to a painful pitch of impotent
fury.

Colonel Enderby," said the girl, looking

up at him, and still smiling, " I am afraid
you have altogether forgotten me. I am
so sorry. Indeed, it amounts to being a
little humiliating for me, for I have the
most perfect recollection of you. You were
always so kind to me."

Philip Enderby felt slightly embarrassed.
He was not accustomed to be greeted after
this fashion by unusually pretty young
ladies. Since the far-off days of Cecilia
Murray, his experience in the matter of
women's society had neither been very large
nor very intimate. He had an almost
quixotic reverence for the sex  such a
reverence as cynical persons are wont to
say can only be maintained at the expense
of the presence of accurate knowledge.

There was a frankness in the young lady's
expression, and a graceful self-possession in
her manner, however, which the Colonel
found reassuring. He answered her slowly,
perhaps a trifle stiffly ; yet he could not help
smiling too, her face in its expression had
such a bewitching fearlessness.

I ought to know you, though nine years,
have made a good deal of difference, it

must be owned. You are Miss ."


The girl laughed softly, and put up her
eyebrows with a little air of protestation
and regret.

Oh yes," she said; " nine years make
a lamentable difference, of course. They
change simple Jessie into elaborate Miss
Pierce-Dawnay, and they put dolls and
bonbons out of the question. That last
is especially trying for me. I am just as
fond of bonbons as ever. Your taste in
dolls w T as not  well, how shall I say it ? 
exactly professional, Colonel Enderby, butin
bonbons I found it ravishing."

There was a carefulness and distinctness
in Miss Pierce-Dawnay's pronunciation
which one frequently remarks in English
persons who are constantly in the habit of
speaking a foreign language. Her words
did not run into each other in the slipshod
fashion too common even among our well-bred
and highly educated countrywomen.
They seemed to stand apart, and each
maintain a full and separate value. This
little mannerism has something both pretty
and arresting to the attention in it.

Philip, quiet, serious, middle-aged man
as he was, felt delicately amused and
interested in the charming young creature
before him. It is very strangely pleasant,
as one gets on in years and the glory of
the day grows pale, to meet with something
as fresh and gay and fearless as this
girl. To the Colonel there was a touch of
pathos in her radiant youthfulness. She
struck him as a charming child even now,
and he answered her little speech with a
certain smiling gravity.

We might manage the bonbons still,
I dare say, if you wish it."

"Oh," she cried, "thank you! I have
yet, then, something to live for, and you
are doubly welcome. To tell the truth, we
have been slightly wanting in amiability
and animation lately here at the Villa
Mortelli. Your arrival is every w 7 ay agreeable
; we have wanted something to change
the current of our thoughts."

Colonel Enderby bowed his recognition
of this civil observation.

"But mamma will be impatient to see
you," the young lady continued. "And,

meanwhile, will you kindly discharge that
intolerable driver, who is nearly sending
our poor Malvolio into fits by jeering at
him ? Then we will come indoors, please.
Ah ! there is Parker. She will tell you
what to pay that wretched driver. They
always overcharge ; it is their recognized
system. Parker is the only member of this
establishment who can manage them."

The person indicated, a tall, angular, hard-featured
woman, stood in the doorway,
delivering herself of a series of short observations
in curiously bad Italian.

"Antonio is to take Colonel Enderby's
things down to his hotel later, Miss Jessie,"
she said, looking sharply at Philip, and
addressing his companion. " Mrs. 
is waiting for you in the drawing-room.
Marie's taken in tea."

The Colonel, assisted, whether he would
or no, by Parker  who indulged in biting
comments on the shiftiness of Italians in
general, and Genoese cab-drivers in particular
 finally succeeded in satisfying the
demands of the coachman. Then the long
whip cracked, and the tired little horses

jerked up their heads, and the carriage
rattled away down the steep road between
the pink rose-hedges in the southern sunshine.


u Shall we come indoors now ? " asked
Jessie.

She closed her umbrella, and, picking up
Malvolio in her arms, turned towards the
house. As she did so, Colonel Enderby
was sensible of a quick movement of repulsion,
almost of disgust.

Surely you are not going to carry that
monkey," he said hastily. " Here, let me
take it."

Oh no, he would perhaps bite you' she
replied; " and that would be such an unfortunate
beginning to your visit. He is
very spiteful with strangers. But I often
carry him when his master, my cousin,
Bertie Ames, is not at hand  don't I
Malvolio ? "

Colonel Enderby could offer no further
objection, yet somehow he did not at all
like it. Perhaps it was the result of a long-night
journey through from Paris ; perhaps
he had got sunstroke standing talking on

the terrace without his hat ; but he was undoubtedly
aware of a strange and decidedly
disagreeable sensation as he passed from
the glow and splendour of colour and sunshine
outside into the dim chill entrance-hall
of the Villa Mortelli. It seemed to
him as if somewhere else, long, long ago,
all this had happened before. He knew it
was a foolish, absurd fancy, and it annoyed
him. Yet surely it was not the first time
he had followed the graceful flitting figure
of this young girl up the cold, white, marble
staircase, while the weird face of the still
chattering and but half-pacified monkey
grinned back at him over her shoulder.

Chapter II.

BEAUMONT PIERCE-DAWNAY's WIDOW.

The Villa Mortelli is a plain house. It has
seen its best days, and everything about
it has grown a little tumble down and
antiquated. The present owner is only too
happy to let the upper suites of rooms to
any family, Italian or foreign, with a taste
for quiet and economy, which can be
induced to rent them ; while the surroundings
of the house are left pretty much to
their own devices, subject to a periodic
tidying up on the part of the peasant overseer,
who looks after the vineyards and
market-gardens below.

It is a decidedly plain house. The ground-floor
on either side the front door has but a
couple of heavily grated windows in it, and
is given over to kitchens and chilly ragged

store-rooms opening into a central hall.
Above is a low entresol, with ugly little
square windows overlooking the terrace ;
and above, again, are two floors of large
and rather handsome rooms. The lower of
these two suites opens at the western eut
on to the flat roof of a building origin ally,
no doubt, designed for a coach-house and
covered yard. The roof is supported on an
arcade of arches and massive square pillars,
and covers quite a considerable area of
ground. The house, with the said building
or loggia, is painted, as has already been
stated, a deep orange red. The windows
have outside wooden shutters to them,
originally a vivid blue in colour, but now
weathered by the action of the rain and
sun and sea-wind to a dull neutral tint.

Beyond the house, on the same level
as the terrace, and divided from it by a
dilapidated wooden paling, is a square
flower-garden; a neglected wilderness of a
place, a mere tangle of roses, camellias,
lilacs, and other flowering shrubs, with
lilies and hyacinths below them, straggling
about the ill-kept beds as they please.

Some lemon trees are trained against the
back wall facing the southern sun ; and in
the centre of the garden, where the four
weedy gravel paths meet, stands a clump of
not over-productive orange trees. On the
low red boundary wall are large earthenware
pots of fantastic shapes containing
plants of tall sword-leaved aloes.

Immediately behind the house rises a
cliff, up which a light iron staircase leads
from the back of the loggia to the vineyard
above. Higher is a slope of coarse
grass, the rising ground being crowned
with a thick little wood of scrub oak, ilex,
and fir.

Jessie, with the monkey in her arms,
went quickly upstairs, and, crossing the
landing, threw open the tall narrow doors
of the drawing-room.

Mamma," she said, in her clear detached
tones, " here is Colonel Enderby.
He has driven out all the way from Genoa."

The inside of the little red villa is in
harmony with the exterior. It, too, has
seen its best days. The room into which
the Colonel found himself ushered by his

charming guide was long and high, with a
vaulted and richly painted ceiling. The two
southern windows were shaded with half-closed
shutters and red Minds ; while the
one at the far end of the apartment, draped
like the others with faded yellow brocade
curtains, stood wide open on to the flat roof
beyond. The sun slanting in through it
filled the air with warm mellow light.
There was an effect of worn-out splendour
about the room. The covers of the large
couches and chairs showed frayed and
threadbare at the points of greatest contact;
the plentiful gilding of consol-tables and
mirror-frames was a good deal tarnished :
but the glorious sunshine streaming in enriched
and harmonized it all. Even the
marble floor, but sparsely covered with
rugs, looked only agreeably cool in the
glowing atmosphere.

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay, with both hands
outstretched, and a considerable rustling
of full black silk and grenadine skirts,
came rapidly across the room to greet her
guest.

"Ah, my dear friend!" she exclaimed,

this is indeed a pleasure. How very good
it is of you to come to me."

Colonel Enderby bowed over the handsome
woman's hands as he held them.

"You are too kind," he answered gallantly.
"I engaged long ago always to obey your
summons."

I know  I know you promised. But it
is a long time ago. It is so long, too, since
we have met at all that I really scrupled to
trouble you  the more so, perhaps, because
you have been very helpful to me in the
past. People say I am exacting ; that I
demand too much. Those are odious accusations,
you know. They make one nervous
of asking a service from even one's best
friends, at times."

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay put up one hand,
and pushed back, rather impatiently, the
folds of the black lace mantilla which w T as
fastened across her dusky hair, and hung
down softly about her shoulders.

I have been in great perplexity," she
said. " Your visit is most welcome."

She spoke rapidly, and there was a ring
of sincerity, almost of enthusiasm, in her

reception of hin, in which a gainer man
than Philip Enclerby might have found
occasion for a pleasant sense of elation.
Luckily, however, he was not given to
ebullitions of personal vanity. He supposed
the lady's pecuniary affairs were in disorder
it had happened more than once before
now  and that she wanted him to set them
straight for her. He possessed a very
romantic reverence for womankind in the
mass ; but, all the same, he was satisfied
to take up an extremely practical position
with regard to this lady. He had no sentimental
hankering after relations of an
intimate or emotional character.

And yet Eleanor Pierce-Dawnay, at two-and-thirty,
with her well-set head, pure oval
face, and luminous brown eyes, greeting her
guest so charmingly in the pale, faded room
at the Villa Mortelli, was unquestionably
a woman whom you might easily have been
excused for desiring to improve your acquaintance
with. She was tall, with a fine,
supple figure, and stately carriage. Her
black hair had none of that greasy gloss on
it which too often makes black hair anything

but a beauty. Her complexion was dull, it
is true ; but her skin w r as even in tone and
delicate in texture. She looked like a
woman who loved an indoor life, and warm,
fragrant atmosphere. There was a richness
of suggestion, so to speak, and an intensity
about her such as usually go with mental
and social rather than with physical activity.
The Colonel was aware that his hostess's
course had been a slightly original and
erratic one ; otherwise, listening to her fluent
speech and noting her rather stormy beauty,
he might very well have wondered a little
why this striking-looking young woman had
elected to shut herself up, with her stepdaughter,
in the solitude of a quiet country '
house.

You are not the least altered," she went
on, moving back a step or two, and looking
at her guest carefully.

I wonder whether that is good news or
not," answered Philip, smiling. He was a
trifle put about by this attentive scrutiny.

Undoubtedly it is good news."

Eleanor laid her hand lightly on Colonel
Enderby's arm.

You have come, and I am very grateful.
There is the whole matter. Now let us
have some tea. You must be tired after
your long journey. Come and sit down
comfortably."

"I am so disgustingly dirty," remarked
the Colonel, as he followed his hostess up
the long room. He had been wishing to
make this apology from the moment he
came in. " I am really ashamed of appearing
before you in this state."

Eleanor stopped a moment, and turned
to him.

The same little mania as of old about
dust, Colonel Enderby," she said. " Ah !
that reminds me of so much."

During the foregoing conversation the
girl had been standing aside, watching her
two companions with a gay little air of
interest and amusement. Now she moved
away, and stepped out on to the loggia.

Mamma is going to have reminiscences,"
she murmured. "We will retire, Mal-folio,
and return at a more convenient
season."

"Dear child," called Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay

VOL. I. I

after her ; "remember the sun. Have you
got a hat ? "

The awning is up," answered the girl,
looking back and smiling brightly  less,
perhaps, at her stepmother than at Philip 
and the sun never affects me. I am going
to watch for poor Bertie."

We thought you would come straight to
Terzia by train," Eleanor said to him. " I
did not like your arriving there and finding
no one to receive you. I deputed my cousin,
Mr. Ames, to go and meet you."

She sat down by the tea-table, and began
rearranging the cups and saucers. A silence
fell on her, and for a few moments she
appeared to be somewhat oblivious of the
presence of her guest.

Philip sat down in the nearest chair,
crossed his legs, and slowly pulled first one
side and then the other of his thick
moustache with the thumb and forefinger
of his left hand in a meditative fashion.
Several things in the course of the last hour
had surprised him a little. He did not feel
quite at home with his new circumstances.

As Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay handed him his

teacup, she looked up with a sudden change
of expression.

What do you think of my stepdaughter?
" she asked.

The question was so wholly unexpected
that Colonel Enderhy paused for a moment
before answering it. During that brief
pause he was acutely sensible of the clear
tones of the girl's voice  talking half mockingly
to the monkey  which came in, along
with the sunshine, at the open window.

I think that your step-daughter has
grown into a very beautiful person," he
said at last, with a certain seriousness.

Ah, you too ! " cried his hostess.

Perhaps there was the faintest savour of
irritation in her manner. Any way, she did
not enlarge upon the subject. She talked
on, pleasantly enough, about less personal
matters -friends in England, the Colonel's
journey and so forth, for some minutes,
then asked one or two questions about
Matthew Enderby's last illness, about Bassett
Darcy and the disposition of the property.

It seems to me you have been very
badly used, Colonel Enderby," she said at

last. " And I suppose, with your usual
generosity, you submitted to be despoiled
without a single protest."

The Colonel smiled. He was not accustomed
to the overflowing of feminine
sympathy, or the picturesqueness of feminine
statement. They struck him both as
amusing and violent.

That is rather a hard way of putting it,
you know," he answered.

He did not particularly enjoy discussing
his own affairs with Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay  or
any one else, for that matter.

My father had a perfect right to leave
his property as he liked. He knew that
I was provided for under my poor mother's
will."

But then there is a recognized custom
in these things. You must have always
expected to possess the place eventually.
You must have looked forward to it 
dreamed about it, taken it for granted.
No, it seems to me a wretched injustice."

Hardly as bad as that," said the Colonel.
He wanted to take the matter as lightly as
possible. " I've wandered about the world

too much to be fit to settle down, at my age,
into a regular country squire  at least that
is what my father thought, no doubt  and
quite reasonably too. Of course, being so
much out of England, I have lost touch of
a whole lot of things  it was inevitable.
Now, my brother has been on the spot all the
time ; he knows all about the place, and so is
much more fitted for that sort of life than I
am. He's a capital fellow," added Colonel
Enderby, heartily. " He's a first-rate farmer
and sportsman, and a useful man, too,
in the county. He's got a lot of commonsense.
Then he's married, you know, and
has a family, and that, of course, makes a
difference."

I really can't see that it makes the
smallest difference." Eleanor looked up
at him very prettily. " A man at your
age  specially, perhaps, in your profession 
is in the prime of life. You haven't taken
a vow of celibacy, I suppose ? You may
marry too."

Colonel Enderby shook his head. He
looked at his boots, he smiled, but with no
exuberant cheerfulness.

No, no, I shall never marry, my dear
madam," he answered quietly.

At this moment Jessie came in at the open
window.

"Bertie has arrived," she said. " He
has driven back. He will certainly be very
cross."

"I am sorry," remarked Philip, getting
up and setting down his teacup, "that I
should have given Mr. Ames all this unnecessary
trouble."

Jessie turned to him with the most dainty
and reconciling air of amusement. Certainly
she was admirably pretty.

Don't be sorry. It does not in the
least signify. Bertie is rather grateful in
his heart of hearts to any one who will
supply him with a legitimate excuse for ill-temper.
He enjoys being "  the girl made
a graceful little outward gesture with her
two hands  " like that, you know, slightly
ill-used and injured."

Jessie, you are malicious." Eleanor
spoke sharply, and her face darkened.

The young lady rested her hand for a
moment caressingly on her step-mother's
shoulder.

What could I say, little mamma ? " she
asked. " It was a choice between Colonel
Enderby's peace of mind and poor Bertie's
reputation."

There was a sound of footsteps on the
stairs. The monkey gave an odd, sharp
cry, and ran quickly in at the open window
and across the room. It looked even more
grotesque and uncanny, perhaps, when it
subsided into a mere animal, and went
honestly on all fours, than when it stood
or sat upright with an assumption of discreet
and human attitudes. As the door
opened, the monkey sprang nimbly off the
floor into the arms of the young man who
entered, making as it did so strange
caressing noises.

"Poor little abomination!" said Mr. Ames,
as he stroked and fondled the creature.

He came on slowly into the room, looking
rather hard at Colonel Enderby meantime.


"Ah! you have arrived, then," he continued.
"I have had the misfortune of
missing you."

Somehow Philip did not relish being

taken so entirely for granted. He would
have preferred a more formal and regular
mode of introduction.

"I am afraid," he said stiffly, "that I
have given you a lot of unnecessary
trouble."

"No, no," answered the other man.
"Pray don't mention it. It didn't matter.
It passed the time, you know; and that,
after all, is as much as the most interesting
occupation can do for one really."

Mr. Ames, judging by his appearance,
was in age something over thirty. He
was a good-looking young gentleman, with
a dark, pale, and rather sleepy face, short
pointed black beard and moustache, and
black eyebrows  nearly meeting above the
nose and running up a little at the ends.
He was dressed w T with elaborate precision,
in the latest English fashion; but an indescribable
touch of floridiiess in the cut
of his garments made the Colonel pretty
sure an Italian tailor must be, after all,
responsible for the production of them. In
his button-hole Mr. Ames wore an extremely
fine white gardenia.

Give me some tea instantly, dear cousin
Nell," he said, subsiding languidly into a
large arm-chair and addressing Mrs. .
"I conclude you drove out from
Genoa ? " he added, looking towards Colonel
Enderby.

It was observable that his voice was
singularly full and sweet, while his dark
eyes were nearly as mournful as those of
the monkey on his knee.

The Colonel admitted, briefly, that he
had driven out from Genoa.

"It is a beastly road," said Mr. Ames,
very gently. " Three lumps of sugar, dear
Eleanor, please ; you always forget my
number. And a lump for Malvolio too,
please. There, there, quietly, my poor
lamb ! Let us avoid unnecessary violence,"
he went on, as the monkey snatched, chattering,
at the piece of sugar she held out
to it.

Philip did not stay very late at the Villa
Mortelli that evening. He parted from his
hostess on the terrace. Antonio, the Italian
cook,  in a white linen jacket, blue trousers
and very ornate smoking-cap, with a large

pair of gold-rimmed spectacles, a ferocious
grey moustache, and the air of a distinguished
field-marshal at least,  stood in the
doorway, holding the Colonel's travelling-hag
and bundle of wraps, and waiting to
show him the way down to the hotel at
Terzia.

The sky, in which the stars and crescent
moon shone with a cold steady radiance,
stretched a vast dome of purple black overland
and sea. The waves lisped and murmured
on the beach far below. The croaking
of innumerable frogs came from the
reservoir away among the vineyards.
Wafts of warm air, laden with rich faint
scent of orange and lemon blossom, swept
round the house from the tangled garden
beyond. Up at one of the villages on
the mountain side there was a festa, and
every house was illuminated with rows of
candles along each window-ledge, gleaming
and twinkling, faint and yellow, through
the clear air. The foreground of terrace
and vineyards and roadway lay frosted
with moonlight and blotted with black
shadow.

Good-night, my clear friend," said
Eleanor Pierce-Dawnay.

She held the Colonel's hand in both
hers, and looked at him with a strangely
restless appealing expression in her fine
eyes.

I don't know how to thank you enough
for coming to me. I shall expect you early
tomorrow. I have so much to talk over
with you. To-night I would not trouble
you, but I need your help."

Eleanor checked herself abruptly. Bertie
Ames sauntered out from the house and
stood beside her.

Cousin Nell," he said, in his rich,
soft voice, "you and Jessie will catch
all the colds in the world out here without
any shawls. The night is romantic,
no doubt, but, unfortunately, it is also
chilly."

The girl treated Colonel Enderby to one
of her brilliant smiles as she bade him
good-bye.

Au revoir," she said. " And the bonbons
 shall I really have them ? "

Looking back when he had gone halfway

down the carnage road to the iron
gates, Colonel Enderby could still see Mr.
Ames and Jessie. They stood together,
side by side, on the terrace, in the pale
moonlight, a black figure and a white one.
Suddenly the young girl's laugh rang out
clear and sweet through the silence.

Ah ! truly our signorina is an angel,"
said Antonio, devoutly. "It will be a sad
day for the red villa when madame marries
her daughter."

Chapter III.

IX WHICH THE COLONEL TAKES STOCK OF HIS
POSITION.

It appeared to Mr. Edmund Drake, who had
followed his friend out from Genoa, that hew
T acted a very long while for Colonel Enderb} r
in the smoking-room of the Grand Hotel at
Terzia that evening. The good gentleman's
mind was not, it must be conceded, of the
order w T which feeds willingly and profitably
on itself. Solitude and meditation had
never struck him as salutary, or in any
degree inspiring. There was, indeed, nothing
hermit-like about Mr. Drake's appearance
; but rather a certain light and roving
quality, which made him suggestive of an
elderly, but still able-bodied, butterfly. With
praiseworthy diligence he was wont to flutter
from amusement to amusement, killing time

pertinaciously and with admirable gaiety of
heart. He was a constant diner-out. He
liked balls, garden parties, and festivities
generally. He hunted with the Midland-shire
hounds from the beginning of November
till the end of March; took rooms in
one of those knowing little streets off
Piccadilly for June and July ; found himself
among the purple stretches of the Scotch
moors, or by the side of some brawling
salmon river in August; paid a round of
visits in pleasant country houses, with a
view to shooting, in September and October
; and settled down again for the serious
business of the winter in his capital little
bachelor establishment at Tullingworth intime
for the third meet of the season,
which, as everybody knows, is held at
Bassett Darcy.

April and May were off-months, so to
speak, with Mr. Drake. He was very
grateful to any one who would suggest to
him an enjoyable method of passing them ;
and when, this year, his old and valued
friend, Philip Enderby, had proposed a run
on the Continent, Mr. Drake accepted the

idea with alacrity and enthusiasm. He had
a pretty little taste in pictures and music
of the lighter sort ; and, as the home of
the arts, he cherished a great kindness for
Italy. It seemed to him rather clever and
up to the mark to visit that profoundly
picturesque country now and again. He liked
to he able to say, " When I was in Some in
'57," or, " When I was on my way to
Venice in '65." It sounded well, and
served to impress some fan neighbour at a
provincial dinner-party with the notion that
she had the honour of sitting by a travelled
and intelligent man of the world, who might
be expected to look at life generally from a
comprehensive and cosmopolitan standpoint.
And it must be owned that even now,
though rotund in the central region of his
person, though grey about the moustache
and whiskers, though bald  yes, lamentably
bald on the crown of his head, which rose
white and shining, above a thick semicircle
of grizzled hair  even now Mr. Drake was
penetrated with a constant desire to impress
and captivate the members of ike opposite
sex. His vanity in this matter was deliciously

naif. He professed a deep and
searching knowledge of feminine peculiarities
; and being, in point of fact, an eminently
modest and well-conducted person,
loved to represent himself as a terrible rake,
a very Don Juan of a fellow, full of perilous
dissimulation, and as inflammable as guncotton.


When Colonel Enclerby at last entered
the smoking-room that evening, Mr. Drake
received him with a lively sense of satisfaction.
He laid down the meagre pages
of Malignant, from which he had been
vainly trying to extract some small amount
of mental sustenance, with an air of evident
relief and applied himself vigorously to
conversation.

Not half a bad place this," he said ;
and really they gave us a first-rate dinner.
They're trying to work the hotel into
popularity just now, you see, it being quite
new, and good feeding pays as an advertisement.
There are a very tidy set of people
here, too, take 'em all round. A very
effective-looking Russian woman just opposite
to me at table this evening  I wished

I'd been nearer to her. You must observe
her tomorrow, Enderby. Upon my word,
she's worth looking at. The everlasting
English parson here, of course  little repaired
fellow this time, with a face like a
ferret. He's got his wife, and a couple
of sisters-in-law  I take them to be by
their looks  with him. Very plain, well-meaning
sort of people, you know. The
English all seem to me pretty fair. But
there are half a dozen Germans  greedy,
noisy, ill-dressed lot, I must say. I came
over just after '66, you know, and the
Germans were offensive enough then, in all
conscience ; but this last war has regularly
brutalized them. They can't forget it, even
now. Their swagger is disgusting," exclaimed
Mr. Drake  " simply disgusting ! "

He threw himself back on the broad
orange and-black covered divan, fitted
against the wall of the room. " Brutes ! "
he said under his breath, and then fell to
humming a gay air from La fille che Madame
Ingot, to restore his imperilled equilibrium.

Colonel Enderby, meanwhile, sat himself
down in an angle of the aforementioned

VOL. I. K

divan, which, along with a few marble-topped
tables and a generous supply of
mirrors and sjDittoons, constituted the entire
furniture of the lofty light-coloured room.
His sympathies being by no means strongly
Gallic, he ignored the subject of his friend's
discourse, and applied himself to matters
nearer home.

I'm glad you like the place," he said.
Should you mind staying on here a day
longer ? It seems that Mrs. Pierce-Daw T nay
wants to talk over some business matters
with me tomorrow. Probably I shan't be
of the slightest use to her, but I must listen,
at all events. And she insists on our both
dining there tomorrow night. You won't
mind, Drake, eh ? "

Delighted, I'm sure," replied the other
man, cordially. " I'll poke about here in
the morning, you know, and just run into
Genoa in the afternoon, while you're busy."

Colonel Enderby was not in particularly
good spirits. He lighted his cigar, and
sat smoking in silence, staring vaguely at
the well-laid parqttet floor between his
feet.

Mr. Drake, however, wanted to talk. He
fidgeted with Malignant, hummed Madame
Angoi with increasing vivacity, and at last,
no longer able to contain himself, embarked
in an inquiry.

"Well, and how did you find Mrs. ?"
he asked. "I only saw her
once  years ago. Good-looking woman,
and promised to improve."

"I don't know that she has altogether fulfilled
that promise," observed the Colonel,
drily. "But as far as looks go, she's handsome
enough still."

Mr. Drake fidgeted about again for a
minute or so.

Well, and what about the little girl ? "
he inquired lightly.

Oh, she's grown up as little girls will."

Pretty?"

Very pretty," said Philip, with a certain
finality in his tone.

Few things are more vexing to your
thorough-paced gossip than to be answered
in this poverty-stricken sort of fashion. But
Edmund Drake was not easily pnt off; he
returned valiantly to the charge.

"Anybody else there ? " lie asked, after a
time.

Colonel Enderby raised this eyes with a
questioning expression.

There where ? " he said. " Oh ! at the
Villa Mortelli ? Yes, a nice ? gentle, little
person in grey, who put in an appearance at
dinner  dame de coiwpagnie, I suppose ; and
an infernally ugly monkey : and a cousin of
Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay's  a young man." The
Colonel leant back and crossed his legs. " I
didn't quite fancy the young man somehow,"
he added presently.

Ah ! one rarely does ismcy the young
man, you know, when one's getting well on
towards fifty," remarked Mr. Drake, with a
chuckle. "Well, I shall turn in now, I
think, Enderby ; and I strongly recommend
you to do the same. Nothing like a goodnight's
rest for bringing one round after a
long journey, you know."

Philip, however, did not take the excellent
advice thus offered him. He sat up rather
late.

More than once Galli, the head waiter,
clothed in funereal black, with a napkin

over his arm, and flat, tired, slippered feet,
looked in to see if the English Colonel had
not at last retired, so that he might put out
the gas and go to bed himself. Galli had a
noble head and pale, finely chiselled face,
set in a frame of crisp black heard and crisp
hack hair, suggestive of some impassive
and world-weary Eoman emperor. In point
of fact, his soul was more in harmony with
his slippered feet than with his imperial
head. It was a common, patient, unimportant
little soul, quite capable of thrilling
into ecstasy over a tip of five francs. The
mark of a stupendous history and civilization
has stamped itself in royal characters
on so many Italian faces, behind which
there really is nothing at all, except slightly
amiable vacuity. Galli looked in at the
smoking-room door, saw Colonel Enderby
was still there, and went humbly away
again, to meditate in silence and loneliness
among his table-cloths, glasses, and
decanters.

Philip sat and smoked and thought, or
rather ruminated ; for when men of the
Colonel's type are not actively engaged

about some practical matter, they can hardly
be said to think. Their mental processes
are chiefly pictorial, I fancy ; not so much a
matter of words and ideas, as of scenes and
impressions.

The gas burned with a yellow, unsteady
light, revealing very fully the nakedness of
the room. In the corridor just beyond,
Mr, Drake's enemies, the lively, not to say
uproarious, party of Teutons where playing-cards,
and indulging freely in those strange
interjectional snorting and grunting that
form such an integral part of German conversation.


His surroundings were far from romantic ;
and yet the pictures which presented themselves
to Philip Enderby's mind were undoubtedly
touched with the delightful finger
of romance. The events of the afternoon
had stimulated his memory to a remarkable
degree. He seemed to see poor, good-looking,
rackety Beau Pierce-Dawnay once
more, as he lay tossing restlessly on his
narrow camp bed, through the long hours
of semi-tropic nights  half wild with fever
and exhaustion, crying tears of impotent

misery and weakness, and raving about his
young wife and his " darling little Jessie,"
whom he would never see again. Philip
had been with poor Beau when he died,
and had promised  with the fervour natural
to such a moment  to look after the dying
man's wife and child. He had kept his
promise, too, with perhaps unusual faithfulness
 for that same fervour of the
watcher beside the death-bed, cools down
sensibly, as a rule, after the funeral : and
what was originally embraced as a sacred
duty, appears too often, later, as something
allied to a bore. But Philip had really
applied his mind to helping his friend's
widow. He had extracted her jointure from
a recalcitrant father-in-law ; had advised her
successfully regarding her affairs on several
occasions  Eleanor had rather a gift forgetting
into what are vulgarly called tight
places  and had held himself ready, at all
times, to come to her if she should send for
him. For the last few years their relation
had been a less intimate one, it is true ; yet
the Colonel had never regarded himself as
released from his old engagement.

The Germans finished their game. They
got up with a sound of loud talk and
laughter, a scraping of chairs and clatter of
hoot-heels on the marble floor. Galli looked
in for a moment, tired, but acquiescent in
whatever state of things might be revealed
to him. But Philip Enderby sat still on the
orange-and-black divan, his legs crossed, his
steady blue eyes staring at nothing in particular,
a queer smile about his lips, and the
stump of his cigar fading from crimson heat
to grey ash between his fingers.

A fair young face smiled at him from
under a great red umbrella, and a light
slender figure flitted before him in the
gloom of a wide dusky stairway, and merry
mocking words wandered in through a
sunny window. A hundred dainty little
movements and charming glances forced
themselves on his remembrance ; and all
the while, with ancient wizened countenance,
a monkey grinned and chattered at
him ; and a young man  well, no, not a
young man exactly, but a decidedly younger
man than Colonel Enderby  stood by,
mournful, cynical, and it must be owned,

most unnecessarily good-looking into the
bargain.

The Colonel sat up and shook himself.
He did not half like his own imaginations.
His state of mind was decidedly abnormal,
and it worried him. Then his thoughts
wandered back to Cecilia Murray, his old
love. Yes, he had been true to her, very
true, on the whole,  even when it was quite
useless to be so. A certain tenderness came
over him even now whenever he thought of
her. Ah ! how different things might have
been if he had married her years ago, and
if, in due time, Bassett Darcy had come to
him !

Philip had visions of himself, solidly
prosperous, settled in life, with a wife who
had become a sort of second self to him,
and a troop of growing boys and girls
around him ; hunting three or four times a
week ; riding over on Board days to Slowby ;
going to church soberly on Sunday ; busy
with pleasant homely matters ; building
good cottages ; giving away beef and pudding
to the labourers' wives at Christmas ; wandering
about on nice, dull, dewy mornings,

with a spud in his hand, and vexing seriously
because there were so many plantains in
the turf on the lawns. He sighed. Yes, notwithstanding
his assertions made to Mrs.
Pierce-Dawnay a few hours before, that was
the life he was really cut out for  ordinary,
sensible, and responsible, touched with
kindly humour, and backed with dignified
comfort. Renunciation is not such an easy
matter, after all. You may fast of your own
free will, and not because you are compelled
to ; but you will feel as hungry for the food
you deny yourself as for food that is denied
you. Colonel Enderby had forgiven his
father, he harboured no grudge against his
younger brother ; but he was not very
cheerful all the same. He got up and took
one or two turns up and down the room.
Then, moved by a sudden impulse, he stood
still in front of one of the mirrors, and took
a good, long, honest look at himself.

The impression he received was not an
encouraging one, somehow.

Drake was right," he said, a little inconsequently.
"I'm nearly fifty. It's all
very well, but there are a number of things

you must do before then if you're going todo
them at all. I feel as if a little fighting
would be rather a comfort just now," he
added.

The Colonel moved across to the table
again, and picked up his cigar-case and box
of fusees.

"I'd better go to bed. I'm out of sorts,
I think, to-night. The day after tomorrow
we'll go on to Spezia ; Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay
will have said her say by then, I suppose."

Just outside the door he nearly ran into
Galli  yawning, but mild, and still clinging
to his napkin. Philip Enderby was struck
with sudden compunction ; he said a few
civil words to the man about having kept
him up so late.

Galli bowed and smiled faintly  a well-bred,
if disowned Caesar.

We are accustomed," he remarked
vaguely. " The German gentlemen have
but lately finished. I wait to see to the
gas."

And with shuffling footsteps he passed
along into the empty smoking-room.

Chapter IV.

"LE dessous des cartes''

For reasons which he would have found it
difficult to define, Philip put off his visit to
the Villa Mortelli, next day, till the afternoon.
He did his hest to maintain a very British
and impressible frame of mind. Accompanied
by that lively and self-important
little man, Mr. Drake, he explored the not
very promising town of Terzia in the
morning ; looked in at the lofty, stuffy,
painted church, and pronounced it tawdry ;
lingered for a few minutes at the great
straggling station, and remarked, with a
grain of contempt, how slovenly and slipshod
all Italian railroad arrangements
appeared to be ; loitered down on the grey
beach, in the brilliant sunshine, watching
the great blue-green rollers come in in endless

succession, and break in hollow thunder
and snowy foam at his feet, and declared he
had seen a ten-times finer ground sea on
the west coast of England. The Colonel
was sensible of a strong instinct of self-protection
at this juncture. He felt the desirability
of cultivating a number of wholesome
British prejudices. The feeling amused him,
even while he recognized its wisdom.

About half-past two o'clock he arrived at
the little red villa. The sky was absolutely
clear, and the whole place seemed to sleep
in the rich glowing sunshine. The front
door stood open on to the terrace. Philip
rang ; waited ; rang again, and then, getting
bored both with the delay and the heat,
went indoors and upstairs.

The drawing-room door stood open too.
From within came the sound of a piano.
Some one was playing brilliantly, almost
riotously, avalse. There is an indescribable
underlying pathos in dance music  everybody
knows it ; a heartache behind all the
laughter, a weariness below all the rapid
movement, a question, a doubt, a misgiving,
under all the radiance and joy .

Colonel Enderby did not quite care to
acknowledge the penetrating sentiment of
the music just then. He knocked at the
door, as no servant w 7 as visible, and then
walked straight into the room. As he did
so, the valse sank away into a tender regretful
passage.

Jessie Pierce-Dawnay was at the piano.
Apparently she was absorbed in her own
performance. Her pretty head was thrown
back, and her light figure showed up with a
very telling distinctness against the shaded
corner of the room beyond the instrument.
In a low chair by her side Mr. Ames
lounged, slowly cutting the pages of a
yellow French novel, and whistling the air
of the valse softly as he did so. At the
sound of Colonel Enderby' s footsteps, he
looked up.

Ah ! " he said gently.

The young girl looked round too. She
got up quickly and came forward, her face
irradiated with one of those delightful
smiles.

You are very late," she said. " Did you
get tired of us all last night ? We expected

you to luncheon at half-past twelve ; but
perhaps you did well in not coming. You
would have found Bertie and me alone.
Miss Keat has gone into Genoa; Mamma
has one of her headaches, and is invisible.
7 '

Mr. Ames, meanwhile, rose slowly from his
chair.

"I hope they gave you decent rooms,"
he observed, in his sweet, drawling voice.
I spoke beforehand ; I did what I could ;
I was assured that you would be treated en
prince. But a hotel-keeper's business is to
tell one lies, you know."

I did very well, thanks," Colonel
Enderby answered, rather shortly. Then
he turned to Jessie again, and made one or
two necessary and civil inquiries respecting
her stepmother.

Ah ! mamma's headaches are very
distressing," she said. " They are nervous.
When they come on, mamma succumbs ;
she disappears entirely. As for us, we are
very sorry, of course, but we have grown
accustomed to it ; we wait till she reappears,
and then we proceed as usual. Bertie

suffers at times, too," she added ; " but lie
doesn't disappear. He remains, and I have
to amuse him."

"In that case Mr. Ames is hardly
deserving of much pity," said Philip.

The young lady was really very captivating
as she stood there looking with a
sort of mischievous innocence from one of
her companions to the other.

I am to be pitied, though, a good deal,
sometimes," she answered. " Bertie is not
easy to entertain. He becomes tired of
everything. He says he has got beyond it.
He has a most beautiful voice, Colonel
Enderby, but he will never sing now ; he
says he has got beyond that. The phrase
is odious to me."

The girl spoke with some warmth. Mr.
Ames w r went on quietly cutting the pages of
his novel.

"My dear little cousin," he said, "your experience
of life is as yet, happily for you, very
limited. I will preach you a little sermon."

Oh, pray don't," said Jessie, quickly,
putting up her eyebrows. "I have the
most lively objection to sermons."

"I know," lie answered. "For an
English girl your education has been
deplorably neglected in that particular.
But if you knew more of the world, you
would be vividly aware that the chief business
of a reasonable being consists in getting
beyond things. Ask Colonel Enderby,"
he added, glancing up suddenly, " if he is
not unpleasantly conscious of having got
beyond a whole number of things by now."

Have you ? ' : said Jessie, almost
seriously.

The whole spirit of the conversation was
distasteful to Philip. He had taken a
dislike to Mr. Ames, who struck him as
sententious, and at moments even offensive,
with his languor, and his drawl, and his
over-delicate manner. The question, too,
reminded him, with irritating distinctness,
of his unsatisfactory colloquy with the
looking-glass in the smoking-room the night
before. He paused a moment before
answering. The girl repeated her question,
looking in his face all the while with curious
directness.

Yes," he said, rather sadly ; " I'm afraid

VOL. I. L

I have got beyond a good many things too,
Miss Pierce-Dawnay."

"Ah! dear me," she sighed; "what a

pity ! "

Still she stood gazing questioningly at
him. The Colonel felt himself singularly
moved by that lingering inspection.

Bertie Ames laughed gently.

I told you so, Jessie," he said. " The
law is of universal application. See, it holds
equally good in the case of myself and
Colonel Enderby  if I may venture, in passing,
to associate my obscure name with his
illustrious one. Everybody gets beyond
everything, to put it vulgarly. I am almost
past this last novel of Daudet's. And the
day will come, Jessie, when a new gown 
even one from Paris  will cease to give you
any very active satisfaction. "

"No, no, no!" cried the girl, piteously.
Her pretty eyes filled with tears, and she
moved two or three steps away from him,
and nearer to the Colonel.

"Don't say that  don't spoil it all! It
isn't true, Bertie," she cried. " Say it isn't
true," she went on, turning to Colonel Enderby

 coming so close to him that lie
perceived quite strongly the scent of a little
bunch of grey violets which she wore in the
bosom of her dress  " tell me it isn't true ;
tell me I shall always go on enjoying things.
I enjoy them so much now. Don't let Bertie
make me miserable."

At this moment Philip stood undoubtedly
in need of all those self-protective instincts
which he had sought to cultivate earlier
in the day. The situation was a slightly
dangerous one. For an instant he was
tempted to do an exquisitely silly thing.
He was tempted to gather this pretty
appealing child into his strong arms and
swear  an oath, by the way, quite impossible
to keep  that neither Mr. Bertie Ames
or any one else should ever give hera
moment's distress again. Fortunately,
however, most people only do a tithe of the
foolish things they are tempted to do.
colonel Enderby drew himself up. He
even moved a little farther away. His
heart may have beat rather quick for the
moment, but that he could not prevent.
He glanced at Bertie, who leant easily

on the top of the piano, and watched him
with a suspicion of lurking amusement in
the expression of his handsome face.

"My dear young lady," he said quietly,
"if people get discontented and miserable,
they have generally only themselves to
thank for it, in the long run. One need
never, except through one's own fault, get
beyond enjoying the things which are really
worth most in life."

There was a pause after the Colonel had
thus made his confession of faith. Then
Mr. Ames observed, but so mildly and
amiably that it was impossible to be very
wrath with him 

"Pardon me, but I wonder whether you
really believe that ? "

Just at this moment Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay
rustled into the room, closely followed by
the austere form of Parker, bearing cushions,
eau-de-cologne, and various et ceteras.

"Ah, Colonel Enderby," she said, with
a certain weariness of manner which was
not without its charm, " I have been expecting
you. Why didn't you come
earlier?"

As she spoke Eleanor looked rather hard
at the Colonel, erect, serious  even a trifle
savage ; at the young girl, with her flushed
face and still misty eyes; and, lastly, at
Bertie Ames, leaning indolently on the top
of the piano. Her expression changed
sensibly, and she spoke perhaps with a
grain of uncalled-for rapidity and decision.

Parker, you may take all those things
back into the little drawing-room again,
please. I am not very well to-day, not equal
to much," she continued, addressing Philip ;
still, I cannot afford to waste the precious
hours of your visit. I should like to have
some quiet talk with you, Colonel Enderby.
Will you come with me into my sanctum ?
It is cooler there, and we shall be alone."

Then she placed her hand on her stepdaughter's
shoulder and said, "You look
tired, Jessie. Take a book, and go to your
own room and rest."

And me ? " inquired Mr. Ames, gently,
"and me, cousin Nell? In your scheme
of universal benevolence, am I to be left
out in the cold, or will you kindly devise a
suitable occupation for me also ? "

Eleanor turned to him with a flash in her
eyes.

You can ring for the monkey," she said
briefly.

Ah, just so. The idea is an admirable
one. I too am provided for. Thanks. I
may ring for the monkey."

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay looked at Philip.
Let us come," she said, as she moved
towards the door.

The Colonel followed her across the landing
to another room, though inwardly he
was just a shade reluctant to do so. He
liked plain sailing, a simple straightforward
manner of conducting life; and he began
to suspect that plain sailing was by no
means the custom of this slightly eccentric
household. He was becoming conscious
that a good deal was going on around him
which he could not fathom, and he did not
in the least enjoy it.

When Mr. Ames was alone, he subsided
into the deep arm-chair again.

Cousin Nell becomes enigmatical," he
said, half aloud.

If Philip Enderby was already on the

look-out for cross currents, and sunken
rocks, and shifting winds, his talk with his
hostess that afternoon was by no means
calculated to reassure horn. The preparations
for it in the way of smelling-bottles
and cushions were alone suggestive of embarrassing
possibilities, to a man unused to
the habits and requirements of womankind.
Then, too, an effect of restlessness, of hardly
repressed emotion, which was observable in
Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay's manner, perplexed
him. In a way, he was a little afraid of
this stormy handsome woman in her present
mood. She struck him as likely to make
strange propositions, and prove somewhat
unmanageable if they were not complied
with. Mentally, he repeated his decision of
leaving Terzia on the morrow.

After some desultory conversation as to
his plans  where he was going, and what
he proposed to see  Eleanor said, with a
certain solemnity in her tone 

Colonel Enderby, you mustn't suppose
I asked you to put yourself out of the way
and come here to see me on some merely
frivolous pretext. I want you to be so good

as to give rae your advice in a difficult and
delicate matter. There are reasons which
seem to give you a claim in this question.
You were my husband's best friend, and soin
this case, I instinctively turn to you.
Will you permit me to speak quite freely ? "

The Colonel assented courteously enough.
What else could he do ? Yet he was sensible
of growing discomfort. The room
was cool, but the shut and darkened
windows produced an effect of airlessness.
It was sweet, too, with the scent of flowers,
and his hostess, with her serious intense
face, sitting on the old-fashioned sofa
opposite to him, made a sufficiently telling
and graceful picture. But Philip refused
to be impressed. Perhaps he was suffering
a reaction after his moment of keen feeling
in the drawing-room just before. He was
not in quite a sympathetic attitude of mind,
and yet his loyalty to his old brother-in-arms
made him wish to be helpful to Mrs*
Pierce-Dawnay if he could.

"I have great confidence in your judgment,"
she went on. " I cannot trust
myself; I can't be as dispassionate as I

want to be. But I can trust you, Colonel
Enderby. Think of all I owe you, as it is."

"Pray don't say that," he interrupted.
Your husband was my very dear friend. I
have merely tried to pay  very inadequately
a debt I owed to the dead "

The Colonel paused. His expression was
pathetic, modest, charming, as he looked
across at her.

Eleanor was a person of quick perceptions.
She had a very high respect for her companion.
She felt, too, at this moment, that
a dividing wall was, so to speak, broken
down between them, and that they had
moved several steps nearer to each other in
intimacy.

I know, I know," she returned warmly ;
and it gives me more confidence now.
I am horribly perplexed. You must advise
me. Tell me," she went on, speaking
quickly, " tell me, what shall I do with my
step-daughter, with poor Beaumont's child? "

Philip Enderby was startled.

Good heavens ! Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay,
what do you mean ? "

Oh, don't misunderstand me," she answered.

" I don't mean anything very
extraordinary. Jessie has reached an age
when it becomes necessary to think of her
future. She is attractive, she has had
many admirers."

No doubt," murmured Philip, almost
involuntarily.

Foreign ways are different to English
ones, you know. Parents here take a much
more active interest in their children's
prospects than is customary at home. They
look forward. They consult with some
chosen friend ; they decide on a course of
action, and carry it out."

The Colonel began to see what was
coming. Under other circumstances the
position he was called upon so unexpectedly
to occupy might have struck him as an
amusing one. But for some reason he was
not in the least inclined to look at the
question of Jessie's future from a humorous
point of view. He was moved to disclaim,
quite hotly, any share in providing for the
young lady's happiness.

You must pardon me," he said. " In
all business matters I am glad to be of

service to you in any way I can ; but this
question is altogether outside the range
of my capacity. I have not any qualifications
for the part of adviser regarding your
step-daughter's future. Remember, I had
not seen her since she was quite a child
till yesterday. I know absolutely nothing
of her tastes and inclinations; any interference
on my part would be simply
grotesque."

Philip leant back stiffly in his chair, and
looked away.

"I am sorry, but I must refuse to discuss
this matter," he continued. "It places
me altogether in a false position. Surely
some one else  your cousin, Mr. Ames, for
instance  is far better qualified to advise
you than I am."

Directly the words were out of his mouth,
Philip regretted them. It was odious to
him to think of that languid disillusioned
young man having a hand in the fate of
the pretty child who had implored him so
passionately "not to let Bertie make her
miserable " only half an hour ago. The
Colonel felt as if he had been guilty of an

act of treachery. He was furious with
himself.

His hostess, too, was perhaps a trifle
nettled at his very plain refusal to do
what she asked of him ; but outwardly she
dominated her displeasure.

"I understand your feeling," she said.
"I half expected you would object at first,
and I respect you for doing so. But we
can't let the conversation end like this. I
must explain myself a little further. At
the risk of annoying you, I shall go on."

Eleanor sat up ; she leant her elbow on
the arm of the sofa, and fingered the
carved woodwork of it rather restlessly as
she spoke.

"In mentioning Mr. Ames you have
touched the root of all my perplexities.
He is my second cousin. He has been
living with us, off and on, for the last two
years. Bertie's career has not been an
altogether fortunate one. He has had a
good deal to endure, one way and another.
I think," she added, with a ring of genuine
feeling, in her voice, " that I have been of
some little help to poor Bertie. Colonel

Enderby, you must bear with me ; you must
let me tell you about him."

But the Colonel was growing decidedly
restive. He was suspicious of these confidences
; be began to distrust whither they
might lead. He wanted to cut the conversation
short, to go away, to go out of
doors  to do anything, in short, but sit here
listening in this sweet, airless, oppressive
atmosphere.

"You are tired, Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay," he
said, getting up and standing before her.
Don't you think it would be best to leave
the story of Mr. Ames' troubles till tomorrow
morning  till you are rested? "

You would do me a real favour, Colonel
Enderby, if you would listen now."

She turned her face to him suddenly;
it seemed pale and haggard in the soft
light.

"Pray, pray, listen now," she went on,
speaking low and hurriedly, clasping her
hands, and leaning forward with her eyes
fixed on his face. " You are honest and
true, and I am horribly lonely; I am in
great distress. I can't tell you altogether

why; you must take my word partly on
trust. Perhaps I shouldn't have spoken so
soon, but I am low and nervous to-day. I
hate all that pitiless sunshine, and glare,
and glitter outside ; it distracts me. I am
getting worn out, and I can't be cautious,
and diplomatic any longer. I have wanted
some one to speak to for weeks and months.
Of course, all this seems weak, excited,
ridiculous, exaggerated to you; but listen
to me, Colonel Enderby, not for my sake,
but for the sake of my dead husband,
w T ho trusted you  for his sake, hear me
out."

The Colonel sat down again. It was all
very painful, very unpleasant ; but it would
be nothing short of brutal to leave a woman
pleading for a hearing in that desperate
way, and Philip was very far from being a
brute.

Thank you," she said eagerly.

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay pressed her handkerchief
hard against her lips ; she was altogether
unstrung. She had a choking sensation in
her throat, and, for a few seconds, was on
the edge of an outburst of hysterical sobbing

; but she mastered herself by an effort
of will, which her companion could not help
admiring. She set her teeth, gave herself
a petulant little shake, and then began
speaking again calmly.

"Bertie's mother was an Italian," she
said. " His father was a banker in Milan.
I used to be with them a good deal, years
ago, before I married. However, that's
neither here nor there. Bertie has money
and no profession. He fell wildly in love
with a young Italian lady of good family 
a distant connection of his mother's. Her
parents had other views for their daughter,
they would not hear of it. Bertie was not
good enough for them, I suppose ; they
made his religion the objection. It has
always struck me as, indeed, a case of the
irony of fate, that poor dear Bertie, of all
people in the world, should suffer in the
cause of religion."

Eleanor shifted her position slightly ; she
avoided looking at Colonel Enderby.

The young lady married, as her parents
desired her; she did not pretend to care a
rap for her husband. She was a beautiful,

self-willed, emotional creature. I needn't go
into particulars ; the story is not a pleasant-one.
Everybody knew what was happening.
Bertie Ames sacrificed his youth to this
unfortunate liaison ; it has blighted his
whole life. The lady still cares for him 
there have been terrible scenes at times 
but he no longer cares, I think, for her.
Yet, if her husband were to die, he would
marry her tomorrow ; he believes he is
bound in honour to do so. Bertie's sense
of honour is very fine."

Eleanor raised her eyes with a movement
of pride as she finished speaking. For the
life of him, Philip could not help smiling
a little.

Yes, it is," she cried, with energy. " He
no longer cares, but he waits. He will not
think of any one else. All his Italian friends
laud him as a preux chevalier, a very model
of constancy."

She paused, still looking up, almost defiantly.
Colonel Enderby cleared his throat.
He had disliked this young gentleman from
the first; and that fact, probably, made
him somewhat merciless. Personal feelings

insinuate themselves so cunningly into our
judgments of others, and offer, on broad,
general principles, such excellent justifications
for their existence.

That is a mistake on the part of Mr.
Ames' friends," he remarked drily.

A dull flush came into Eleanor's cheeks.

Yes, from your point of view, I dare say
it is ; yet, remember, Bertie is more of an
Italian than an Englishman. The standards
in these matters are different here. But for
the last few months I have been gro wing-dreadfully
anxious. I have noticed, I have
feared that  well, that he was very much
drawn towards Jessie. He won't marry,
he will never many any woman but the
Countess Tolomei. But, Colonel Enderby,
think  think if Jessie comes to care for
him."

Colonel Enderby stood up all of a piece,
as the saying is.

Send him away," he said, fiercely.
There is just that one thing to do ; send
him out of the house directly."

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay flung back her hands
wildly.

VOL. I. 51

"I can't, I can't!" she cried. "Anything
in the world hut that."

Philip stared at her for a moment in
dumb amazement. She was pale and
scared.

Then as the meaning of her strange
outburst began to dawn upon him, he
turned aw r ay, half in pity, half with a sense
of repulsion. The situation was painfully
complicated.

Eleanor also had risen to her feet. There
was a silence. Presently she spoke.

"I have been mad," she said hoarsely.
I have lost my head and betrayed myself.
I have put myself to shame before you.
Colonel Enderby, if you are a man of
honour  and I know you are that  you will
believe what I say now, and then go away
and blot my insane self-betrayal out of your
mind for ever. Bertie Ames does not dream
of this ; nobody in the world knows it."

There was a fine dignity about the woman
at that moment.

Philip bowed silently. Words were obviously
out of the question. Eleanor moved
aside, and began nervously arranging some

cut flowers that stood on a dish on one of
the tables.

The Colonel's mind was penetrated with
the remembrance of Jessie. Poor child !
her prospects, all things considered, seemed
to him sufficiently melancholy. Again, he
felt a strong movement of pity  of tenderness
towards her. It seemed frightful that
this pure, innocent, gay young life should be
bound up with the dark unfruitful history
he had just been listening to. He stood
absorbed in thought. If only something
could be done to help her !

Eleanor left off fingering the flowers, and
moved about the room impatiently. With
whatever sentiments of trust and confidence,
with whatever vague hope of possible assistance
she had begun her interview with
Colonel Enderby, at this moment, in her
hot shame and wounded pride, she desired
most cordially to be rid of him.

"You leave here tomorrow I think you
said?" she observed at last, over her
shoulder.

Philip was not prepared for the question.
It forced him to come to a sudden decision.

No," lie answered slowly; "I think I
shall remain here for a few days longer 
that is, of course, if you will permit me todo
so."

There was a perceptible interval of
silence before Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay's anew T er
came.

It will be delightful," she said at last.
Shall we come into the other room ?
Miss Keat and the others will be there.
It seems to me rather oppressive here."

Thank you, I think I won't stay now,"
he responded ; "I rather want a walk.
I'll come back, with my friend Drake, to
dinner."

As the two friends were going down to
the hotel that night, Mr. Drake suddenly
stopped short in the wavering yellow light
of one of the few gas-lamps in the quaint,
painted main street of Terzia, and looked
full at his companion.

I don't half like leaving you behind,
somehow, Enderby," he said. "It's not
merely the breaking up of our plans ; though,
of course, I'm sorry for that : but I take for
granted your reasons for staying are good

enough, and so I accept them without any
fuss."

The good little gentleman moved on
again with his quick, self-important walk.

"I don't know what it is, but, hang it
all, Enderby, I feel nervous about you."

Philip laughed in a very cheery, reassuring
way.

"You have a wonderful imagination,
Drake," he said. " Why, what on earth
do you take it is going to happen to me ? "

"I don't mind the widow," observed the
other man, apparently rather inconsequently;
" I'd trust her, I think. At
bottom she's a good woman  flighty, of
course, and all that sort of thing; but I'll
back her to be sound enough here"  Mr.
Drake thumped himself heavily in the
region of the heart  " sound enough here,
you know," he repeated. " But that little
girl  upon my word, Enderby, somehow I
fight uncommonly shy of that deuceclly
pretty little girl."

The Colonel looked down ; he kicked the
loose gravel on the walk of the hotel
garden  which they were just then crossing

with his foot, and laughed again, but this-time
with slight annoyance.

"A thousand to one," he said, "you'll
never set eyes on Miss Pierce-Dawnay
again, so really I don't think that very
much matters."

CHAPTEK Y.

JESSIE SUGGESTS A REMEDY.

Having once committed himself to a line of
action, it was Colonel Enderby's habit to
stand by it, even when it failed, on more
mature consideration, to commend itself
very highly to his judgment. Inspired
partly by his loyalty to Beaumont 's
memory, partly by a quick pity
for the two women, whose position seemed
to him such a critical and painful one, Philip
had decided the evening before to stay on
at Terzia. He was going to stick to his
post ; he was going somehow to see them
through. And yet, when in the cheerless
light of a very wet morning, he bade farewell
to kind, fussy little Mr. Drake, and
saw the latter gentleman pack himself and
his baggage into the rattling omnibus, which

was to convey him into Genoa, Philip
became conscious that perhaps he had
undertaken a very foolish piece of business.
It was all very well to talk of lines of
action ; but the unfortunate thing was, that
he hadn't any line at all. He could not
see his way in the least. He turned back
into the large brightly painted hotel, which
looked particularly frivolous and ephemeral
on this gloomy morning, in anything buta
sweet temper. He said to himself that
the whole thing was a nuisance, and that
he had got himself into an infernally awkward
fix :  " and, it must be owned, he
said it with a will.

The Colonel's temper was not improved
when, on sallying forth, some few hours
later, in a mackintosh and heavy boots in
defiance of the streaming rain, he met Mr.
Ames just turning in at the gates of the
hotel garden. Bertie was holding up a
large umbrella, picking his way carefully
along the sloppy pavement, and looking
mildly disgusted, yet resigned. He had on
a very light overcoat, and wore the inevitable
white gardenia in his button-hole, a

trifle brown at the edges of the petals from
the wet.

He nodded blandly to Colonel Enderby.

I suppose you rather like this sort of
weather ? It seems home-like," he observed,
with a sweet wistfulness of expression, which
was by no means appeasing to a man in an
irritable frame of mind.

Two minutes before Philip had felt no
special objection to the rain. The dull sky
was really rather a relief after all that gaudy
sunlight. But for some occult reason, as
Bertie spoke, his opinion went round to
another quarter with all the velocity of a
weather-cock on a gusty day.

"It's the most beastly morning I ever
saw," he replied, with considerable asperity.
The whole place looks miserable. It
seems to me this country can only look
decent in a blaze of sunshine."

Mr. Ames smiled faintly.

Yes, I understand just what you mean."

He took a leisurely survey of the large
hotel, built round three sides of a square
and coloured pink, with splendid imitations
of stone pilasters and florid mouldings

painted in pale yellow, and the shadows
they were fondly supposed to cast painted
in pale green. Then he turned, and gazed
down the many-coloured street behind him.

"I understand perfectly what you mean,"
he repeated. " It looks very like the inside
of a theatre by daylight. You thoroughgoing
English people dislike that ; it strikes
you as artificial. As for us, we others prefer
our theatre, daylight or gaslight, to anything
else in the world."

It all appears to me very cheap and
flimsy," said Colonel Enderby. "I can't
think much of the beauty of a country
when it can be spoilt by a few hours' rain."

He glanced critically at the other man's
clothes as he spoke. Mr. Ames' dress
provoked him. To-day Philip took great
exception at his hat. It was too low in the
crown, and too curled up at the sides.
Just like a shop-boy out for a Sunday," he
said to himself.

"As we have satisfactorily disposed of
the country, let us go on to the people,"
Bertie resumed, with much composure. He
found a delicate pleasure in keeping his

companion standing here in the rain. " They
remind me, now, very much of fowls on a wet
day, depressed and draggled. I felt so like
a fowl myself this morning, that I really
had to come out. I wanted to stand about
on one leg with other fowls, and make
melancholy little noises. There is a natural
desire for communion among the wretched,
you know. I feel much better since I have
stood about here with you."

This was going too far. The Colonel
drew himself up.

I think I'll walk on," he said curtly,
and, turning away, passed rapidly down the
dripping street.

He is a very good-hearted barbarian,
after all, I believe, though he doesn't like
me," Bertie Ames said to himself, with
commendable candour, as he picked his way
across the hotel garden. " The British
flavour is a little too pronounced, perhaps ;
but, poor man, he can't help that. I
wonder what dear Cousin Nell really intends
to do with him. Her inventive power is
startling at moments."

Later that same day, Philip Enderby had

a short conversation with Jessie, which
seemed to throw light on the situation.
The rain had almost ceased; but the pale
ragged clouds still hung low on the hillsides,
while the w r hole landscape seemed
blotted in in cold tones of indigo and grey.
The Colonel had been for a long walk. He
had been trying hard to arrange his ideas,
to make out what was the next step he had
better take. To stay and do nothing to mend
matters at the red villa was out of the
question, and yet for the life of him he
could not arrive at any distinct conclusion.
All his plans had been put out ; and he
found himself stranded in a dull little
foreign town, offering but small promise of
occupation or entertainment to a man of
his tastes, with a difficult and delicate piece
of diplomacy on his hands. The Colonel
felt himself to be a somewhat ill-used personas
he walked up to the front door of the Villa
Mortelli that gloomy drizzling spring afternoon.


Just as he was going to ring he heard his
name called, and, turning round, saw Jessie
coming from the tangled garden beyond.

She was wrapped in a long cloak, with the
hood of it pulled up over her head, framing
the oval of her fair young face with a dark
line. There was something pensive in her
expression. The girl had gained an almost
tragic interest in Colonel Enderbv's eyes
since his conversation with her step-mother.
Her foes were those of her own household,
poor child ! It was sad. Altogether, she
struck him as a very appealing little figure,
standing there among the dripping leaves
and rain washed flowers in the dull afternoon
light.

"I am so glad you have come," she said.
It has been a horrible day. Miss Keat
has had bad news from England; she is
going away tomorrow. To-day she has
done nothing but pack and cry. Mamma
has devoted herself to Miss Keat. Bertie
went out early  he escaped. That is the
disadvantage of being a girl; you cannot
escape ; you must stay,"

Jessie delivered herself of this statement
of her small woes, looking with pathetic
frankness into Philip's face.

"I am wretched," she went on, turning

away, and pulling impatiently at a straggling
rose-spray, which, as she touched it, sent a
tiny cataract of water on to the shining
gravel below. "I want the sunshine; I
want to be amused."

At the risk of lowering the Colonel lamentably
in the opinion of all sensible readers,
I must admit that Jessie's petulant outburst,
far from seeming silly or reprehensible in
his eyes, touched him considerably. Unfortunately,
you see, Philip was not the hero
of an admirable middle-class fiction  a
person bristling with respectability and
moralities, whose life is ruled by common
sense, and a lively discernment of
probable profit and loss, and of the market
value of a given article. He was only a
plain, simple-minded gentleman, with a very
tender heart under his stern manner, and a
vein of poetry and romance in his composition
which, at moments, sadly perverted the
strictness of his judgment. Alas ! there
will always be men, I fear, in this singularly
ill-regulated world, who never find a graceful
girl more winning than when she laments
that there are creases in her rose-leaves,

or sheds charming little pearl-like tears of
desire for the moon or some other equally
unattainable object.

"I am very sorry you are wretched," he
answered gently. "It hardly seems fair,
does it ? Wretchedness might keep itself
for older and"  he hesitated a moment,
rather at a loss for the right word  " well,
different sort of people to you. It does not
seem quite appropriate at your age. But I
am afraid I cannot bring back the sunshine
for you."

Philip paused. He would have given a
good deal to bring back the sunshine for
this pretty child, in more senses than the
immediate and obvious one. He felt rather
fiercely towards Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay at that
moment. He formulated an accusation
against her. She wanted to get rid of the
girl to serve her own purposes. It was
unfaithful of her. In thought he accused
her of being a dangerous and unscrupulous
woman.

Jessie looked up at him with charming
directness.

"I don't know that," she said. "'I

believe you would do what you could. I
like you very much, Colonel Elderly."

Philip, like many light-haired men, retained
even at eight and-forty a certain
capacity for blushing. There was undoubtedly
a deeper tone than usual in his
face, as he answered 

"As much as in the days of dolls and
bonbons ? "

Quite as much," said Jessie, promptly.

She drew the dark cloak more closely
about her shoulders.

"Do you mind walking with me a little
way?" she asked, after a moment's hesitation.
" It is so cold standing still."

The Colonel did not mind it in the least.
He was very much interested in Miss
Pierce-Dawnay and in her future. He did
not attempt to conceal that fact from himself.
Why should he? Her father had
been his friend. Philip had refused rather
hotly, it is true, to co-operate actively with
her step-mother the day before ; but then,
that was before all the facts of the case
were before him. No man is quite consistent
; even the most honest-minded

among us can find excellent reasons for
following our own inclinations.

Anyhow, it happened that on that damp
and sombre afternoon Colonel Enderhy had
a little walk with the young lady, which
tended to make him entertain a much more
amiable opinion of Terzia and its surroundings.


I thought the other day I should like to
talk to you," she had said, when they were
fairly started on the road leading down
through the vineyards. "I want to ask
you several things. I think you have influence
with Mamma ; perhaps you could
speak to her. It is so dull here ; I want
to go away. Mamma says she requires
retirement ; but I don't in the least require
retirement. I w 7 as much happier at Florence.
AYe w r went into society at Florence. And
Bertie was nicer at Florence. He has been
strange lately. He says all sorts of depressing
things. He is very melancholy. He
sits and stares at me."

A sense of relief came over Philip. He
could not have said precisely why.

Do you mind very much being stared

VOL. I. N

cat ? " he inquired, looking at the girl by his
side, and smiling.

"It is very creepy to be stared at by
somebody who looks dismal and does not
speak," she answered quickly. "Bertie is
fond of reading scientific books about the
origin of all sorts of things. He firmly
believes that we are all descended from
monkeys. I am inclined to think it must
be true too, sometimes ; for his eyes
are exactly like Malvolio's, when he sits
and stares, and says nothing. It is not
pleasant."

The girl gave a little shudder, and then
went on speaking again, with that peculiarly
distinct and clear-cut utterance.

I wish mamma would go back to England.
She says it is too expensive, and that
the climate does not suit her. But I want to
see it. English girls have so much more
liberty ; they have so many amusements. I
should like England."

Colonel Enderby stopped. This struck
him as rather a happy idea. Jessie stopped
too, and turned to him. They were standing
beneath one of the crooked dwarfed

fir trees bordering the carriage-road, about
halfway down to the iron gates.

"Ah ! you want to go to England? " he
said briefly.

Yes ; I want immensely to go. "We
could settle down and really know people.
Here everybody whom we know goes away,
sooner or later. Only Bertie, and Mamma,
and I remain."

You want me to ask Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay
to take you home to England? " said Philip.

"Ah, do, do! " cried the girl, softly, but
fervently.

She clasped her pretty white hands in an
imploring manner, while her long cloak,
flying back in a sudden gust of wind, revealed
her slim, graceful figure. Colonel
Enderby's heart warmed sensibly towards
this charming young lady. She confided in
him with such engaging frankness. He felt
more at home with her too, out of doors in
the gloom and wet, than in the lofty rooms
and amid the faded elegancies of the little
red villa.

"101 talk to Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay," he
said, after a moment's reflection. " I believe

it would be an excellent plan. I dare say I
could be of some use to you  find you rooms,
you know, and that sort of thing. Then
you might have a couple of months in
London during the season, and come down
into Midlandshire afterwards. Your father,"
he added gently, " w T as a Midlandshire man ;
you w r ould like to see his county, wouldn't
you?"

Whether it was the prospect of seeing
poor Beau Pierce-Dawnay's native count',
or whether other and less retrospective
enjoyments floated before Jessie's eyes,
I cannot say ; but she certainly smiled
upon her companion with a brilliant and
delighted smile.

"Ah! I knew you would help me," she
said.

Meanwhile," Philip went on, " we must
try to make things a little more cheerful
for you here. Let me see, to-day's Thursday.
Suppose you and Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay
come and dine with me at the Grand
Hotel on Saturday, if it's fine? There's
a very nice restaurant opening out into
the garden, you know. It wouldn't be

exciting exactly, but it would be a little
change."

ie It would be delightful," answered Jessie.
I like going out. I like a restaurant. I
like the lights, and the people moving about,
and the little tables, and the tinkle of the
glasses and things."

Philip smiled. It touched him, somehow.
There was a wonderful freshness and response
in this young nature.

You have a great faculty for enjoyment,"
lie said, with a certain tone of regret in his
voice.

By contrast he felt very old at that
moment. The Colonel, who so far had
accepted his increasing years with praiseworthy
indifference and resignation, was
dimly conscious of entertaining a deepening
grudge against them.

The rain is coming on again," he continued,
after a minute's silence. u We'd
better walk back to the villa  I mustn't let
you get wet."

One moment," cried the girl. " About
England  you must be a little careful how
you approach mamma. She may not like

it. You need not say that the suggestion
came originally from me, need you ? "

Undoubtedly, Jessie was very engaging
just then. Her innocent flower of a face upturned,
her sweet round mouth a little open,
her w 7 hole attitude questioning and eager.

You want very much to go ? " asked the
Colonel. He watched the girl keenly.

Yes, yes, dreadfully," she replied.

Very well ; I will do my best. I will bea
model of discretion. But now w T e must
turn back ; the rain '11 be down on us in
five minutes."

Jessie, Jessie ! where have you been ? "
cried Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay, as her stepdaughter
entered the chilly hall of the Villa
Mortelli some ten minutes later. " We
have been greatly alarmed about you.
Antonio and Parker have been searching
for you high and low."

In point of fact, the whole of Mrs. 
's household were gathered together
in the hall :  Antonio, in his embroidered
smoking-cap and gold-rimmed spectacles ;
Parker, upright and severe ; Marie, the
waiting-maid, with her square Swiss figure

and high cheek-bones ; Miss Keat, her mild,
frog-like countenance and pale, protuberant
eyes still bearing testimony to the tears
shed over her packing, and her grey alpaca
gown having a limpness of outline about it
wholly consonant with a depressed mental
attitude. Bertie Ames was standing near
his handsome cousin, a rather inscrutable
expression in his face. And, finally, Malvolio
clothed in a little red jacket, with a big
frill round the neck of it, his long brown
arms showing particularly lean and skinny
out of the short open sleeves  filled, apparently,
with an unwonted spirit of revelry,
performed a series of wild and impish gymnastics
about the shining marble balusters
of the staircase in the background.

We have been alarmed about you,
Jessie," repeated Eleanor. " Nobody knew
you had gone out. I have been very much
agitated."

The girl pushed back the dark hood from
her bright hair ; her eyes were dancing ; the
moist air and exercise had deepened the
delicate pink in her cheeks. There was a
dainty air of defiance about her, a sudden

assertion of personal liberty, as she stood in
the middle of the inquiring group.

I was quite safe," she said, clearly.
Colonel Enderby has been good enough to
relieve the tedium of a very dull day by
taking me for a walk."

Oh, really ! " murmured Mr. Ames,
under his breath.

You should have left word, Jessie, and
saved us this anxiety," said her step-mother ;
but she spoke less urgently than at first.

That excellent woman, Parker, with many
dismal observations regarding the dire consequences
of w T et boots, drove, without more
ado, the young lady upstairs in front of
her. Miss Keat's short round person disappeared
too, presumably in the direction
of her half-filled trunks.

Philip waited only a few minutes. He
excused himself, and started back through
the now pouring rain for the town. Decidedly
there was something unpleasantly
mysterious about the atmosphere of the
Villa Mortelli: and yet, on the whole,
he was glad that Mr. Drake had started
alone that morning for Spezia.

Chapter VI.

A SEARCH FOR A VOCATION.

In England it is, of course, an acknowledged
fact that marriages are made in heaven.
In other countries  as Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay
had occasion to point out to Colonel
Enderby  they are chiefly made by the
parents and guardians of the contracting
parties. This, on the face of it, would not
seem to be an unreasonable custom; but  in
theory, anyway  British sentiment revolts
against it.

British sentiment is a very remarkable
and curious thing. It is worth thinking
about ; worth thinking about for the same
reason that the origin of matter, and the
origin of evil  I do not wish to bracket the
two together in thought, only in speech 
let us, by all means, avoid the heresy of the

Manichees !  and the origin of life, and a
good many other profound subjects are
worth thinking about, namely, because they
are incomprehensible. British sentiment is
entirely incomprehensible. It has a fine
disregard both for logic and for experience.
If carefully considered, it may generally be
found to embody an impressive and apparently
successful denial of the axiom that it
is impossible at one and the same time to
serve both God and mammon. And out of
this statement there grows a second thought
a gently entertaining one to the social
historian, whose business it fortunately is,
not to teach zealously, but to observe faithfully,
and then set down his observations.
With what vigour and dignified alacrity the
respectable Englishman entrenches himself
behind his open Bible, and flings a text 
almost any one will do  in your inquiring
face ; and with what consistent and high-handed
indifference he treats the practical
application of the majority of scriptural
injunctions in daily life. If closely examined,
the attitude of the said respectable Englishman
presents a matter for sincere tears, or

equally sincere laughter, as you regard it
from the ideal or the realistic standpoint.
We do not pretend to deal in the ideal, and
therefore may permit ourselves a comfortable
little chuckle.

But to return to the text. English
marriages are made in heaven -which,
being interpreted, means that the ordinary
Anglo-saxon is a very quiet and domestic
sort of animal, who requires a wife.
Having, however, at the same time, a
curious necessity for the hacking up of his
own inclination with not only the Divine
sanction, but with a warm and overflowing
Divine approval, he has exalted marriage
to the very highest place in the catalogue
of good works, and has indeed made a
virtue of necessity with a vengeance.
British sentiment has come in, too, in all
the force of its corporate strength, and
lias positively inundated us with admirable
views on this subject, concerning which it
has evolved a whole literature of fiction
and biography. Far be it from me to
speak lightly of that literature. It commands
my highest respect ; it is excellent ;

it is salutary ; but* it is also slightly inartistic,
and may be briefly described as the
apotheosis of suburban villas, solid worth,
and side-whiskers.

If, in that humble, teachable, scientific
spirit in which the social historian seeks
to approach all phenomena and all questions
presented to him  desiring always and only
more clear understanding and fuller light 
if, I say, he ventures to ask mildly :  And
what about those marriages which expose
the deplorable category of their conjugal
infelicities to public scrutiny in the Divorce
Court ; or those other still sadder marriages,
that end amid brutal words, and yet more
brutal actions ; or, again, those other
marriages which drag on with distaste and
recriminations, or, at best, dull paralyzing
indifference and coldness, through long,
weary years  are all these made in heaven ?
British sentiment, backed by British respectability,
begs the inquirer, first of all,
"not to be coarse;" and then goes on to
inform him that these are not true marriages
at all  "the people never really loved one
another ! " Well, that, of course, would

be a most consolatory explanation of distressing
phenomena, if one could accept it.
Only, unluckily, observation and experience
do not bear it out very fully.

For, alas ! love  the love that leads to
marriage  whether that marriage prove a
very crown of life, or a gateway opening
into regions most distinctly purgatorial 
would hardly seem to be pre-ordained and"
predestinate, let down bodily from above.
Experience rarely justifies these exalted
notions of supreme destiny or of diligent
arrangement on the part of the Higher
Powers. In nine cases out of ten, that
love is more the result of propinquity than
of predestination. No celestial architect is
required to raise for Love a fair and fateful
dwelling-place, let British sentiment, arm-in-arm
with British respectability, frown
and thunder as they may. The house of
Love may be builded easily enough by any
man and woman, out of such commonplaces
as a dance, or a song, a light
laugh, a lingering pressure of hands, or
those meaningless tears that come so easily
into a young girl's eyes.

Love would seem to be very hurnble-
minded. He bids uo heralds and ambassadors
go before him, with blare of trumpets
and waving of banners. He comes at haphazard
along quiet country lanes, among
gleams of moonlight over dewy lawns; he
meets us on the crowded city crossing, amid
the shouts of the drivers, and under the
very feet of the omnibus horses ; he has
even taken to travelling in prosaic railway
carriages in these latter days, and that with
a disregard of class almost painfully democratic.
He is quick, and subtle, and fearless
; yet he comes softly and silently,
stealing up without observation. And at
first we laugh at his pretty face, which is
the face of a merry, earthly child; but his
hands, when we take them, grasp like
hands of iron, and his strength is as the
strength of a giant, and his heart is as the
heart of a tyrant. And he gives us to
drink of a cup in which sweet is mingled
with bitter; and the sweet, too often, is
soon forgotten, w T hile the taste of the bitter
remains. And we hardly know whether to
bless him or curse him, for he has changed

all things; and we cannot tell whether to
weep for the old world we have lost, or
shout for joy at the new world we have
found. Such is love for the great majority ;
a matter terrestrial rather than celestial,
and of doubtful happiness after all.

But it is high time to leave these easily
enunciated generalities, and return to
Eleanor Pierce-Dawnay, whose communications
had produced anything but an
agreeable impression upon the mind of our
friend the Colonel.

Eleanor, notwithstanding many faults and
shortcomings, was a woman of a large and
generous nature. She was clever ; but
clever rather through instinctive sympathy
and emotion than through force of intellect.
She could boast no general scheme of philosophy,
with its careful balancing of evil
against good and good against evil. A calm
and widely comprehensive view was almost
impossible to her. It was not the least
comfort to her to trace the logical sequence
of events ; nor could she lose her inherent
horror of individual suffering in a quiet
scientific appreciation of the orderly development

of the law of cause and effect.
She did not care a fig about necessary consequences;
but she cared deeply that a manor
woman  specially, perhaps, the former 
should be in pain or sorrow or want. She
had a native impulsion, of which, possibly,
she w T as a trifle proud, to dry tears, bind
up broken hearts, and administer almost
dangerously strong doses of pity and consolation.
Such a woman is for ever flinging
herself a corps perdu into situations of
which, dien the first excitement of her
feeling has worn off, she is liable to get a
little tired. Relations with her are likely
to be stormy. You had better make hay
while the sun does shine, and keep) constantly
in mind the fact that it is certain
not to shine very continuously.

As quite a girl, handsome, ardent, and
romantic, Eleanor Ames had, for good or
evil, met with Beaumont Pierce-Dawnay.

A tall, fair-haired young soldier, in bitter
grief for the death of his pretty young wife,
With a broad band of crape round his arm,
and a lovely little motherless child by his
side, is, undoubtedly, an object calculated

to awaken a warm thrill of commiseration
in every female heart. Eleanor forgot those
other gentlemen of her acquaintance upon
whom she had been wont to expend a
certain amount of thought and consideration.
Marriage with a bachelor seemed to
her a very insipid affair. The ideal office
of a woman was that of consoler ; the ideal
condition that of motherhood  even of step-motherhood,
if necessary. Eleanor consoled
the young soldier to such good
purpose, that in three months from the
date of their first meeting he had married
her.

I do not pretend to offer any theory
regarding the origin of this marriage, and
pronounce it heavenly or anything else.
My business is merely, in a faithful and
diligent manner, to record facts. Beau
Pierce-Dawnay was a great, simple, good-natured
gentleman, who, when the halo
of romance which surrounded him in his
character of broken-hearted widower had
faded and he was looked at in the light of
common day, presented no very wonderful
or mysteriously affecting characteristics.

vol. i. o

Eleanor wanted an office. She wanted to
go on consoling ; but, unfortunately, Captain
Pierce-Dawnay did not now stand in the
slightest need of consolation. He pronounced
himself to be " as jolly as a sandboy,"
and was immensely bewildered when
he made out that his beautiful wife w r as not
at all pleased at the announcement. At
last, still both devoted and bewildered, poor
Beau was ordered out to India, and Eleanor
took to wandering. She had been a good
deal in Italy before her marriage, and the
fascination of that strangely absorbing
country drew her back to it again. After
her husband's death she stayed on. England
had become distasteful to her. She
had a craving for the sunshine, the flowers,
the rich emotions, the glamour and endless
suggestion of southern life.

An ardent and sympathetic woman, with
no duties dependent on her position to
regulate her action and satisfy her imagination,
is apt to run a little wild. Eleanor
had many hobbies. She could not be
accused of riding them to death; because,
before the poor things had arrived at a fatal

stage of exhaustion, she got tired of each
one of them in turn, and cantered hopefully
away on some fresh steed. Schemes of
emigration, the down-trodden condition of
the Italian peasantry, the emancipation of
woman, all engaged her attention in turn.
One year she was distracted about the
sufferings of animals, and made herself sick
with horror over the revolting details of
scientific cruelties. Later, under the influence
of some of those devout and somewhat
damnatory British Christians who
yearly haunt the shores of the Mediterranean
during the winter months, she grew
anxious as to the future of her soul. She
went to prayer-meetings held in the disused
ballrooms of large hotels ; she read trying
little books by obscure authors, bound in
the crudest, most uncultivated of colours,
on instantaneous answer to prayer, and so
forth ; she subscribed largely to societies
for the wholesale conversion of German
Jews, and other equally practical objects.

But Eleanor's sympathies were really too
wide and deep to flow long within the
artificial barriers of any one sect or system.

Nothing but a general reconstruction of
society, whereby sorrow and crying and
pain would be for ever abolished, and a
universal panacea applied to this poor
world's creaking joints, half-blind eyes, and
open sores, could pacify the passion of pity
which w T as growing within her. She began
to consort with rather dangerous company.
Persons fluent of speech, and generous of
subversive ideas, began to haunt her little
appartement in Florence, and keep up loud
and enthusiastic discussions till the small
hours of the morning. When a woman
takes to revolutionary politics, be it in ever
so mild a form, she is indeed skating on
very thin ice. A convent, a lunatic asylum,
or a husband  either will do ; perhaps,
even, rightly considered, there is a certain
affinity between the three  becomes imperatively
necessary.

Just at this critical period of her career,.
Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay happened to meet her
cousin, Bertie Ames, at the Baths of Lucca,
where she was spending part of the summer.
She had not seen much of him for a considerable
length of time. The two had

certainly cherished a species of fondness
for one another long ago ; but Bertie Ames,
in those days, had been a young man with
the world too much at his feet to make
many claims upon his cousin's pity. She
had enjoyed dancing with him, flirting with
him, and so on, well enough ; but he had
not entered into the serious business of her
affections. She had only regarded him as
an agreeable and decorative sort of superfluity.


But at the Baths of Lucca, in 1874, Mr.
Ames presented a very different spectacle
to his charming and warm-hearted cousin.
He was just recovering from a serious
illness. He was weak and depressed, miserable
both in mind and body. His large
brown eyes had a look of sadness in
them which went straight to Eleanor's
heart. An old man-servant of his father's,
Antonio by name, and an ill-favoured little
monkey appeared to be his only companions.
He appealed to Eleanor's imagination, first
as a specimen of suffering humanity, and
then as a relative. Family affection hasa
habit of asserting itself with remarkable

vigour ill the heart of a woman, when the
object of that feeling is an attractive man.

Eleanor resisted neither family affection
nor the moan of suffering humanity. She
devoted herself to Mr. Ames, and he repaid
her with sincere gratitude. He went
further. He confided in her ; he told her
the details of that history which, two years
later, she briefly recounted, as has already
been stated, to Colonel Enderby. Eleanor
entered with generous warmth of feeling
into the situation. She erected poor, not
very admirable Bertie into a hero. She
gloried in his devotion to the ashes of an
expiring passion. She lavished upon him
both her time and her imagination. She
realized his sufferings even more keenly,
possibly, than he realized them himself.

To do Mr. Ames justice, he was profoundly
touched by her kindness. He possessed
in a high degree that lively sense of,
and interest in, the society of women, which
is undeniably more completely developed in
the Latin than in the Teutonic races. To
members of the former, a woman always hasa
peculiar and exciting interest. She is

never taken quite for granted, and reckoned
as Jack Enderby, for instance, reckoned
his wife  as a capital good fellow and
ordinary companion in arms. We Teutons
are very decent, and a trifle suspicious too.
Bertie Ames was only half a Teuton, and
he put a very high value on the enjoyment
of his cousin's presence and ministrations.

When the time came for Eleanor to leave
the Baths of Lucca, she found herself
singularly unwilling to leave Mr. Ames as
well. Quite a moving little scene took
place, during which a number of excellent
things were said about friendship, and the
delightful relation of brother and sister.
The end of it all was that Bertie, Antonio,
and the monkey travelled back with Mrs.
Pierce-Dawnay, Jessie, Miss Keat, and that
estimable woman, Parker, to Florence.

Some persons advised themselves to bea
good deal scandalized at this last eccentricity
of Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay's ; but the
majority of her acquaintance, knowing her
real goodness of heart, and bearing in mind
the excellent reputation which, though a
young and pretty woman, and her own

mistress for so many years, she had always
enjoyed  the majority, I say, contented
themselves with smiling, shrugging their
shoulders, and observing that the charming
widow had exchanged a general scheme of
benevolence for a particular one.

Still it must be owned that a decided
change came over her way of living. The
promoters of Jewish conversion found their
attentions quite at a discount ; neither encouragement
nor subscriptions were any
longer forthcoming. Eleanor began to go
out a good deal into society instead of entertaining
the reformers of society at her own
house. These latter gentlemen made a
valiant attempt to regain their former position
with her. They hinted broadly at the
moral danger consequent on putting the hand
to the plough and afterwards looking back
looking back, too, in the direction of a
specimen of that most noxious class of
mankind which eats its bread in idleness,
and hugs the aristocratic idea. They denounced
Mr. Ames as a viper, a scorpion,
a hateful parasite on the wounded and
shuddering body of corporate humanity.

To all of which rather violent language
Bertie replied by saying in his softest tones,
one evening, to his hostess 

"Dear Cousin Nell, I think you mustn't
let those amiable maniacs come here anymore.
They are, no doubt, immensely
amusing ; but }'ou may have a little too
much to pay in the end for that style of
comedy. We must regulate our entertainments,
more or less, by the length of our
purser, you know."

It must be admitted that, with all their
many virtues, women have not nearly so
innate a sense of the lesser dignities of
living as men. They cannot  perhaps o 
want of physical strength  pay as much
attention to that outward ritual which
makes life proceed, even in private, with
self-respect and punctuality. An establishment
in which there is no man is liable to
be uncertain as to hours, messy as to meals,
unmethodical in many ways, and even
occasionally  though one mentions it with
fear and trembling  hardly as careful of
cleanliness as it might be. Those wonderful
women of the future, the result of several

generations of high school and university
culture, who are going to improve us vastly
in so many ways, may possibly add masculine
appreciation of small dignities and
privacies to their other excellences ; may
have learnt to prefer butcher's meat to
miscellaneous editions of tea and toast at
odd hours, and to regard morning wrappers
as part of the livery of that slavery from
which they fondly believe they have escaped
for ever. But, meanwhile, there is no
denying that a household gains perceptibly
in good tone and out T ard regularity from the
moment a man becomes a member of it.
Women are for ever making short cuts to
comfort ; a man, on the other hand, walks
straight along the high-road towards that
desirable object, and, I venture to think,
generally succeeds in reaching it the first.

The complexion of Mrs. Pierce-Daw r nay's
little establishment improved very much
from the time Mr. Ames, Antonio, and
the monkey became recognized members
of it. Bertie, who had inherited considerable
business capacity from his English
father, as well as considerable emotional

capacity from his Italian mother, took his
cousin's financial affairs in hand, and set
them on a more secure "basis than they had
been on for a long while. It may he added
that he had an excellent taste for the
decorative side of life generally, and continued
to create a very graceful entourage
for himself and his relations.

Jessie at this time was just eighteen, and
was to come out, as the phrase is, that
winter. In point of fact, she came out very
effectually. Bertie Ames forgot some of
his private griefs in watching the girl's
brilliant enjoyment of society ; while Eleanor
threw herself, with all her accustomed
ardour, into the situation. Jessie proved,
undoubtedly, a success; and her step-mother
was honestly delighted at that fact  all the
more so, probably, because her relations
with the girl had not been entirely satisfactory
in the past.

Owing to her sundry and manifold schemes
for the temporal and spiritual welfare of
mankind, Eleanor's interest in her stepdaughter
had been spasmodic in character.
If Jessie was ill, then she gathered her

into the arms of affection, and lavished
tenderness upon her. But Jessie was
very rarely ill. She grew up as some fair,
healthy plant grow 7 s up in a fertile soil,
strong and straight. She made few demands
upon the sympathy of others ; there was
n refined vigour about her, and a happy
immunity from those nervous affections
which so often beset growing girls.

Eleanor had elaborate theories regarding
education, drawn alternately from Rousseau's
"Emile," Richter's " Levant," and from
the axioms of the last Woman's Eights
prophetess she happened to have come in
contact with. Practically Jessie held to the
teaching of Jean Jacques, though innocent
of any acquaintance with the writings of
that much-abused philosopher, and followed
where Nature led her. She had a remarkable
aptitude both for music and languages,
though the theory of the one and the
grammar of the other meant little enough
to her. Her talent was essentially practical
and verbal, a desire for something articulate
and rapidly expressive.

For her step-mother's hobbies she had but

small comprehension, and an equally limited
interest. Jessie from a child had possessed
a great capacity for being bored if people-became
earnest or imperative. She would
just go away and leave them. It is to be
feared that her sense of obligation to the
needs and claims of her fellow-creatures was
not very lively. She loved sunshine, movement,
exercise, and all natural objects ; she
established relations with all manner of
living creatures  was friendly with goldfish,
and intimate with cats and canaries.
When poor Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay, becoming-troubled
 under the auspices of her revivalist
friends  about the condition of her own
soul, extended her solicitude to Jessie's soul
also, the girl met her anxious and penetrating
words first with amusement, and then
with something very like anger. For r
indeed, in the fulness of her youthful
vitality and the keenness of her powers of
enjoyment, Jessie had about as much conception
of the deeper needs of the human
spirit as a butterfly, hawking on a gay
summer's day over a bank of honeysuckle
and wild roses, might be expected to have.

She declined to take the slightest interest
in the emancipation of her sex, being,
as she said, quite unconscious of being
enslaved ; the Italian peasants contrived
to wear charming dresses, even though
they might be supposed by imaginative
persons to be short of some other necessaries
of life ; as to the German Jews, they
were extremely ugly, and, as she added,
with an irresistible wrinkling up of her
pretty little nose, they also usually smelt.
Poor Eleanor's enthusiasms were met by
this radiant creature with calm commonsense.
There was something curiously
baffling to her in her step daughter's personality.
Sometimes the elder woman,
whose ardent nature demanded warm affection
and intimate intercourse, would exercise
all her power to fascinate the girl. Then
Jessie would smile in her brilliant way, and
say, "All ! now, little Mamma, now you are
adorable."  But dien her step-mother went
on to entreat for more love, a fuller measure
of trust and sympathy, Jessie became bewildered,
even cross, and would retire gracefully,
but firmly, to the less exacting society

of her gold-fish or canaries. And Mrs.
Pierce-Dawnay turned away, sighing rather
bitterly, to throw herself  metaphorically
speaking, of course  into the arms of the
socialists, or anti-vivisectionists, or any
other misery-mongers who happened to be
handy at the moment. Step-mothers, poor
things, have established a very unenviable
reputation in literature. In real life, it maybe
questioned whether they are not frequently
more sinned against than sinning.

Jessie spent two very gay winters in
Florence. She was admired, fated, petted.
The young lady had more than one admirer
whose attentions were weighted with serious
intentions ; but the girl herself had an
inclination to be slightly annoyed with admiration
when it put on an importunate
complexion. She was as spontaneously
merry as a kitten, and as untroubled by
sentimental perturbations.

Eleanor's humour, meanwhile, had changed
notably during these two years. Her mind
had been invaded by a new idea, which
came to possess it with perilous completeness
and intensity. She wearied of Florence ;

she began to long for solitude, for silence r
for an immunity from the distractions of
society. Bertie Ames had friends in Genoa,
and so it fell out that, in the autumn of
1876, Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay's rather miscellaneous
menage removed itself to the
comparative retirement of the little red
villa.

VOL. I.

IN WHICH PHILIP MAKES AN IMPORTANT
DISCOVERY.

It is surprising how soon you may acquire a
habit, and how soon that habit will come to
fit you as easily and comfortably as an old
glove. If Colonel Enderby had been told,
on his first arrival at the Villa Mortelli, that
he would walk up there every day for the
best part of the coming fortnight, and that
each recurring visit would prove less irksome
to him than the last, he would have
refused to credit the statement. And yet, in
truth, he was becoming more than tolerant
of that diurnal pilgrimage. I am afraid
the Colonel can hardly be acquitted of a
charge of procrastination just at this period.
Every day he started w T with an intention of
speaking frankly to Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay

about the advisability of a return, for a
time, at least, to England ; every day he
went back to his hotel at night without
having delivered his piece of advice. It was
difficult somehow. There never seemed to
be a good opening, or happy opportunity.
Eleanor did not invite her guest to participate
in any more private interviews.
She avoided all personal and intimate
communications, and contented herself
with being agreeable on broad general
grounds. She was a clever woman, with
a considerable habit of society, and she
really was very pleasant to Colonel Enderby ;
but she took care not to find herself alone
with him. Jessie or Mr. Ames was always
present.

The little dinner at the restaurant passed
off excellently; and, as now the spring
days were bright and long, Eleanor pronounced
this a capital opportunity for seeing
something of the country around Terzia.
She planned long drives to distant villages
on the coast,  charming, little, old-world
places, with tall, discoloured houses facing
the purple sea; w 7 here dark-eyed girls and

women  whose pale cotton garments, innocent
of starch, present a softness of outline
and exquisite delicacy of tone, yellow,
pink, or purple, not unworthy of some
classic picture  stand in long lines hauling
in the seine-nets upon the shelving beach,
or lay their week's washing out to bleach
on the rough, grey shingle.

The Corniche road leaves the low shore-line
sometimes here, and diverges inland
among the wooded valleys where the nightingales
sing, passing by deep rocky watercourses,
where the narcissus, with its
fragrant flowers and sheaf of sword-shaped
leaves, grows down at the stream side ; by
orchards, where fruit-trees are all white and
pink with innumerable blossoms, and, in the
cool grass beneath them fresh with the
winter rains, the fat velvety brown blossoms
of the bee-orchis show dark against the
full rich green. And to all these scenes
Jessie Pierce-Dawnay's bright presence lent
an indefinable charm. The girl was so
frankly and fearlessly glad.

A certain glamour was coming over
Philip Enderby's spirit. He was in no

haste to urge the return to England.
Spezia had faded into the far distance.
Poor Mr. Drake might continue his little
tour alone. The Colonel was growing
curiously reconciled to this idle manner of
life. He was very well contented, especially
when Mr. Ames  to whom in private he
occasionally applied not very flattering
epithets  and his monkey were out of the
way. He began to have some warmer feeling
than mere toleration for those large,
faded, shady rooms at the Villa Mortelli.
He was, in fact, insensibly collecting a
gallery of pleasing mental pictures, in everyone
of which the central figure was that
of a fair girl,  leaning hack in a carriage,
her hands full of flowers, while the fresh
sea wind ruffled her hair ; loitering in the
sunny terrace under the shade of a red
umbrella; wandering among the tangled
luxuriance of the neglected garden ; sitting
and playing brilliant vivid music at the
piano, in a dusky corner of the large
drawing-room; now and then a trifle tired
or pensive, asking some small service which
it was a tender privilege to render her.

Ah. ! really Colonel Enderby was very well
entertained just now. He did not analyze
the situation, but he most distinctly appreciated
it.

On the second Sunday of his stay at
Terzia, it happened that he did not make
his way up to the villa till quite late.
Several things detained him, and combined
to induce in him a humour not completely
in sympathy with the atmosphere of that
peculiarly constituted establishment.

In the morning Philip fulfilled the whole
duty of man by attending the English
service, held in one of the back rooms of
the hotel. There are three separate things
which the British tourist demands, and woe
to the hotel which does not hasten to
supply them  no respectable Anglo-saxon
boot-sole will ever cross its threshold !
Two of these things are for the body ; the
third is for the soul  a proportion not without
meaning, perhaps. The British tourist
must be accommodated with sponge-baths,
open fireplaces,  and an English chaplain.
The hotel-manager at Terzia had early
realized the existence of this trinity of

necessities on the part of his clients, and
had done his best to meet them.

Mr. Drake's acquaintance, the little,
ferret-faced clergyman, officiated ; while
his attendant ladies  the good man, being
apparently desirous of making the most of
the apostolic permission, was " leading
about " a wife, a sister, and two sisters-in-law
 with laudable zeal, undertook,
supported by an antiquated and tiny
piano, to supply the musical portion of
the performance. The sermon  that unfortunately
inevitable incident in the
Anglican church service  consisted of an
extempore address on Belshazzar's feast.
The subject is sufficiently full of impressive,
if mysterious, suggestion in the original
narrative. Unluckily, the preacher elected
to treat it from a symbolic point of view.
Everything was diligently explained to
mean something else ; and in proportion
as his grammar became more doubtful and
his types more obscure, the worthy little
man's voice waxed louder and louder, and
his aspect became more combative and
defiant. At length he absolutely bellowed

forth a string of formless sentences, mainly
suggestive of an exegetical and doctrinal
chaos. One is bound to suppose there is
something singularly grateful to the professional
palate in this style of discourse,
since one is so frequently fated to hear it.
To the unsophisticated layman it is slightly
bewildering, and offers but doubtful help
towards the conduct of life, or the understanding
of matters eternal.

Philip, being but a simple-minded person,
did not derive any sensible measure of
illumination from the latter part of the
exercises of the morning. In the afternoon
he went for a walk among the hills. The
day was radiant, the air quick with the
breath of the sea-breeze.

Turning off the main road, at the outskirts
of the town, he passed up the steep
paved way between the vineyard walls, to
a little village church, with a tall red and
yellow painted campanile, standing on the
hillside about a mile from Terzia. It was
the hour for afternoon service. The bells
jangled, harsh and imperative, in the high
tower; while on the low wall fronting

the flat space before the church door,
men and lads sat lazily chatting and
laughing. The village priest  a kindly
bright-eyed man, in a worn cassock and
rusty skull-cap  wandered, his hands clasped
behind him and his tall lean figure somewhat
bent, from group to group, speaking
a word to one and another with genial
familiarity.

Inside the church, dim with the coloured
gloom of stained windows and frescoed
walls, a large company of peasant women
sat or knelt, the gay silk handkerchiefs
tied over their heads making them look like
a great bed of gaudy spring tulips. The
air was warm and heavy with a lingering
odour of incense; there was a suppressed
murmur of voices, stir of footsteps, and rustle
of garments.

In his character of English traveller,
Philip felt he had a right to look at anything
that presented itself. He stepped
within the open church door ; but, I grieve
to say, there were certain uncultivated
and Protestant tendencies in his spiritual
constitution which prevented his being

in very warm sympathy with the scene.
He loved out-of-doors ; and Catholicism,
with all its splendour and wide appeal to
the imagination, has little enough of out-of-doors
about it. It lets in the sunshine
through cunningly painted glass, on which
it has portrayed the orthodox conception
of the ends and aims of mortal existence.
Our friend the Colonel was tempted to
fancy the white light of truth painfully
obscured by passing through this coloured
medium.

Be that as it may, he had soon seen as
much as he cared to see of the village church.
He turned up a narrow path at the back
of it, and, after passing through the belt
of olive trees  whose tremulous silvery
shade is not so much shade, after all, as
broken light  through thickets of myrtle
and tall Mediterranean heath, on the
straight spires of which the withered
blossoms showed golden brown, he reached
the outer edge of the pine woods high on
the mountain-side.

Far below lay the vineyards and gardens,
and the houses of the town glittering in

the keen dazzling light. Beyond, the sea
stretched away to the southern horizon.
The hells of the little village church clanged
out wildly for a few minutes more, and
then, with a final crash and bang, ceased
suddenly. No sound broke the silence
save the whisper of the wind in the pine
trees, rising and falling in a soft and
rhythmic cadence, like that of summer
waves on a quiet sandy shore. A glad
repose, a sabbath stillness, came over the
beautiful land.

Philip Enderby threw himself at full
length on the deep brown bed of fallen
pine-needles; and as he lay there in the
warm sunshine, looking up at the remarked
branches, and dark glossy foliage of
the trees outlined clear and sharp against
the deep blue-purple of the sky, pleasant
thoughts and hopes came to him. Formless
hopes that he could hardly have set
out in words, yet which brought to his
soul deeper meaning than all the ungainly
profundity of the sermon he had listened
to that morning, and a larger peace and
promise than that imaged forth in the

rich gloom of the church, with its half-seen
pictures and banners, down below.

Yes, let excited philanthropists, and
humanitarian ecclesiastics, and other energetic,
improving, and actively virtuous
persons say what they may,  it is very good
at times to get away into silence and solitude.
To get away from all the noise and
struggle of man, with his arts and sciences
and magnificent schemes, so often abortive,
and his poor little space of anxious, self-conscious
years, and his mixed motives and
feverish efforts. To get away beyond all
histories, with their sounds of wailing and
battle, their stains of sin and of blood;
beyond all the philosophies, with their vain
attempts to square the circle and reconcile
that which can never be reconciled ; beyond
all the formulas and all the creeds, with
their bitter hatreds, their arbitrary assertions
arid negations ; beyond, yes, beyond the
very sense of right and wrong itself, back,
back to the great serene heart of Nature  a
heart beating with primal and exhaustless
energy, yet calm and restrained ; filled with
the rapture and repose of limitless power and

victorious attainment. It is good to get back
and lie on the warm bosom of the eternal
mother, the folds of whose garments are the
high mountains, whose feet are set in the
laughing ocean, and whose life is the life of
the world ;  to lie there, while the soul slips
away from the sense of its own paltry joys
and sorrows, from the narrow hopes and
fears of the individual lot ; to be made one
with the glorious order of created things,
the flesh and spirit no longer conscious of
weary fightings and divisions ; to dream
of the everlasting mysteries of birth and
growth, and of the fulness of strength and
of the failing of strength, and of decay 
and of the mystery of transmuted force, of
life again returning out of death, to begin
once more the ceaseless round of existence
anew; to dream of the mystery of night
and morning, summer and winter, seedtime
and harvest, rain and shine, while
through all the countless ages the Eternal
"Wisdom and Goodness broods for ever over
the broad bright land and sea. "What
is man that Thou art mindful of him?"
Get back, back to the mother of all, and

listen,  peradventure she may speak to
you.

Philip Enderby, lying there under the
pine trees, in the afternoon sunshine, had
a perception of unspeakable trust and confidence,
of belief in a final reconciliation
far away, far off out of mortal sight. Fora
little space he dimly grasped the strange
secret of the Buddhist Nirvana  that state
of acquiescent contemplation, passionless
and impersonal, without movement, without
desire, which, in the estimation of some
of the purest spirits, constitutes the highest
conception of perfect and enduring bliss.

Thank God for this beautiful world,"
he said to himself quietly and reverently.

The sun was sloping towards the west,
and the shadows were growing long, w T hen
he rose up at last. Voices of the peasants
making their way back from the village
church came up on the sea-breeze from
the winding paths below. The spell indeed
was broken, but the impression it had made
remained for a while yet. Philip wandered
down towards the vineyards, amazed, filled
with a solemn gladness  like a man who

has seen a vision, and spoken, face to face,
with the gods.

But alas ! these happy moments of clear
insight and illumination are hut moments
after all. The discords of our over civilized
and artificial life soon drown the music of
the spheres ; the fair face of heaven is too
soon obscured again by storms of passion ;
while jealousy, self-will, hatred, and fear,
like evil beasts, root up and trample underfoot
the fruitful land. " Man never continued
in one stay"  which is, after all,
extremely fortunate for the dramatist and
writer of fiction. Let us console ourselves !
for indeed life at this admirably ideal level
would interfere fatally with our excellent
system of large profits and quick returns.

Colonel Enderby, as he loitered among
the olives, thought that perhaps he would
not go up to the Villa Mortelli at all that
evening. The silent hour on the mountain-side
had done much to loosen the chain of
habit that was fastening on him. He was
aware of a sudden sense of aloofness from
the life of the villa  from Mrs. 
with her sad secret and dark

beauty; from Bertie Ames, with his soft
voice and air of a mild Mephistopheles.
He had drunk deep of the cup of nature.
He could hardly go straight back and drink
their thin vin ordinaire, and listen to the
social gossip of a lady who was more than
half in love with a gentleman of rather
shady antecedents ; who, on his part, was
greatly disposed to adore her stepdaughter.
The good Colonel, you see, permitted himself
to state the case a trifle coarsely just
then, and the contrast it offered to his late
emotions was too glaring. He paused,
with a slight movement of disgust.

He leaned against the gnarled grey trunk
of one of the old olives, and felt for his
cigar-case. He had been a good deal
moved. A smoke would steady him.

"Decidedly," he muttered, "I am not
quite in the humour for those people just
now."

Yet in saying this the Colonel was conscious
of niakirjg a mental reservation.
"Those people" did not include Jessie,
somehow. He thought, with a sense of
relief, of the girl's bright glancing looks

VOL. I. Q

and guileless laughter. She was as fresh
and natural, and far from all subtle undercurrent
of sinister meaning, as the resinous
scent of the pine-trees, or the babble and
glitter of the mountain streams.

She would understand it all w r ell
enough," he thought. His clear eyes
softened, and he smiled quietly to himself.
' She would never strike a false note, or be
out of tune with feelings like these."

Colonel Enderby's smile broadened a little.
It changed its character from tenderness to
amusement.

I wonder which of my feelings she
would be out of tune with, though ? " he
added. " I am afraid I am beginning to
be a little too much aware of that young-lady.
Is it possible that she is growing-dangerous
? "

He walked on down the hillside, not
looking very carefully where he w r as going,
but following the path mechanically.

If they do go back to England, half a
dozen good-looking young fellow r s will be
over head and ears in love with her in the
first month."

It was surprising how vindictive he felt
at the thought of those same good-looking
young fellows.

"And why the devil shouldn't they be
in love with her ? What mors reasonable
? And what possible concern is it of
mine ? "

Colonel Enderby stopped short. The
vision had faded. He was no longer face
to face with the gods. But he was face to
face with something which at moments is
hardly less overpowering and incomprehensible,
perhaps, than the presence of a
divinity would be  he was face to face with
his own heart. He was conscious of a sharp
self-revelation which filled him both with
pain and pleasure ; with a sense of exultation
and yet of irremediable folly.

I am in love," he said. "I, at eight
and forty :  I, who have never cared for a
woman in that way since Cecilia Murray : 
I, who reckoned myself as safe as a church :
an elderly friend and adviser, interested of
course, filled with a sort of fatherly regard 
I am in love, in love with a beautiful girl
of barely twenty''

He was aware of strangely conflicting
emotions. It is so keenly pleasurable to
have stirrings of vivid sensation ; to let the
imagination dwell on one fair face and form,
which seems to gather up in itself lovely
promises, unnumbered hopes, the delight of
untold possibilities. And when the face
and form in question are those of a young
girl, innocent, inexperienced, before w T hom
the years stretch out as a land of promise,
there is indeed an inexpressible charm in
the position ! A man longs to w 7 rite noble
poems on the blank pages of the maiden's
book of life ; to keep it free from all smirch
or stain, from all knowledge of sin, and
shame, and sorrow. There is a passion of
reverence, almost of pity, mingling with the
love of an honest man for a pure girl, which
makes it the most exquisite, perhaps, of all
human sentiments. " He is the first that
ever burst into that silent sea : "  and in
that thought there is, for certain natures,
positive rapture, an aroma fresh as that of
mountain flowers, a living delight as in the
breath of the wind of morning.

Philip Enderby drew himself up to his full

height. He rejoiced in his fine physical
health, in his vigour of body, as he walked
rapidly along the steep paved lane between
the vineyard walls. He was still in his
prime ; Mrs. Pieree-Dawnay herself had
told him so, and it was true.

But these gracious thoughts did not last
long. Wiser and sadder ones followed ;
practical considerations of disagreeable
cogency. Reason critically examined the
situation, and, alas ! appeared disinclined to
strengthen the hands of emotion and desire.
Eight and twenty years is a wide interval
between the respective ages of wife and
husband. Not only is the disparity ungraceful
; but Colonel Enderby realized
bitterly that it might amount to being
actually perilous. He was not a vain man,
and was not disposed to over-estimate his
own powers of attraction. Then, too, his
quick appreciation of what was natural and
harmonious influenced him, perhaps, unnecessarily
at this juncture. The high
value he set on the freshness and spontaneity
which were such conspicuous qualities
in Jessie, made the idea of her marrying a

man whom it would he absurd to call
anything hut middle-aged almost distressingly
incongruous to him. Philip revolted
from anything in human relation which
appeared to him distorted, or approaching
ever so faintly to w T hat he would have called
grotesque.

A decrepit old man with a beautiful
young woman tied to him is a hateful
object," he broke out at last. " People
sentimentalize over it and call it touching
and pathetic. It is disgusting. Do I
want to condemn a pretty woman, some
fifteen years hence, when she is at her
best, to tucking me up in bed of a night,
and feeding me with gruel, and helping to
wrap shawls round my gouty old feet ;
and perhaps  there's no saying how low
one may fall at last  to walking about by
my bath-chair at some beastly watering-place
? "

Colonel Enderby shook himself.

Pah ! disgusting ! " he said. " No, no ;
I'm a fool ever to have thought of it. It's
all utter folly and madness. Somebody
ought to clap me into a lunatic asylum. A

man's not fit to be about loose who is liable
to lose his head in this sort of way."

Colonel Enderby dined by himself in the
restaurant that evening. He did not feel
in the humour to meet the ferret-faced
clergyman and his following, and all the
other miscellaneous collection of guests, at
the table d'hote. He sat alone at a little-table,
by a large French window standing
open on to the hotel garden. There was a
sound of many feet in the main street of
the town as the dusk closed in. Companies
of young men strolled up and down, singing-together
in full deep voices a wild wailing
chant, which seemed to tell of " old unhappy,
far-off things, and battles long ago."
Then suddenly would come a snatch of
violin music, dying away again, as the
player passed on between the high painted
houses, into silence, with a plaintive lingering
cry. The hall porter, his long green
coat plentifully decorated with gold lace,
slowly lighted the numerous gas-lamps in
the square garden ; stopping now and again
to exchange a word or two with the
Colonel's black-headed little waiter, who

had dawdled out, napkin on arm, to take a
survey of things in general between the
courses. There was a blending of light,
and movement, and rich colour, and lighthearted
laughter with those suggestions of
age, and weariness, and regret, that are
hardly ever absent from Italian scenes.
The country is too ancient ; it means too
much. The life of to-day merely plays like
a fitful iridescence on the great stream of
memories which sweeps past us with such
awful strength and indifference.

Philip had left peace up among the pine
woods on the still slopes of the Apennines.
Here was man once more, crowding, crushing
forward, generation after generation, down
the manifold ages of history; the same
stories told over and over again, through
an endless procession of human lives. The
last, the man of to-day, troubled with the
same questions, the same maddening
desires, the same degrading necessities, and
as far away too, apparently, from the heart
of absolute truth as the stern dark old
Romans of the Republic ; or the splendid
and licentious Romans of the Empire; or

the savage hordes of barbarian Goths and
Franks, and Lombards ; or the dim, chivalrous
children of the Middle Ages ; or the
glittering, rapturous sons and daughters of
the Renaissance ; or the weary watchers
for the dawn of returning liberty in the
long sad night of Austrian and Papal
supremacy.

Colonel Enderby, well dressed, well off,
solidly English, sitting comfortably at dinner
at the open window of a modern hotel, and
looking out calmly into the narrow streets
of an unimportant north Italian town, was
still haunted and oppressed with a perception
of these things. The past seemed to
over-shadow and absorb him, threatening
to swallow up his individuality. Thousands
of men had wandered along the flowery
path of love, all unsuspecting, as he had.
Thousands of men had staked their life's
happiness on a woman's smile, and the
clasp of a woman's hand. Thousands had
turned away disappointed, sick at heart,
consumed with unsatisfied desire. Nay,
more, thousands had got all they dreamed
of or hoped for, and, in the end thereof,

weariness and sorrow. It was the old, old
story over again.

The black-headed waiter, who had found
conversation agreeable, rather to the neglect
of more obvious duties, hurried in suddenly.

Would monsieur the colonel have
dessert ? There was an excellent compote
of fruits?"

No, monsieur the colonel would not have
dessert. Monsieur the colonel had arrived
at conclusions. He went up to his own
room and dressed himself for the evening
with scrupulous precision. He stopped a
moment in the hall on coming down again,
and asked the porter for a light for his
cigar. The man brought it and then
remarked, as he helped Philip on with his
overcoat 

They have company at the Villa Mor-tell
to-day. Two English ladies, a little
boy, and a maid. Antonio, Madame 's
servant whom, doubtless, monsieur
has often seen  has been clown to
secure rooms for them."

Colonel Enderby did not bestow much
attention upon this announcement ; he was

busy with his own thoughts. He was going
to tell Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay that, as she had
honoured him with her confidence, he would
strongly urge upon her the advisability of
an immediate journey to England. He was
also going to say good-bye. He had settled
definitely to go on to Spezia tomorrow.

Chapter II.

A Seeing NIGHT.

Good resolutions are a pleasant crop to
sow. The seed springs up so readily, the
blossoms open so soon and make such a
brave show  specially just at first. Weare
full of self-congratulation ; we point to
our patch of garden ground with pardonable
pride, and ask if anything ever promised
better. But when the time of flows has
passed, what as to the fruit ? Well, it must
be admitted that the fruit has a bad habit
of maturing but slowly, and that the wind
too often brings it down before it is well ripe.
Everybody knows what an unsatisfactory
thing wind-fallen fruit is. After all the
trouble it has given us in the earlier stages
of growth, we grudge to let it lie on the
ground and rot ; and yet if, in an economical

spirit, we gather it together and eat it,
it has an undeniable tendency to prove
unwholesome, and produce that inelegant
and painful disorder vulgarly known as
the colic.

Philip Enderby's good resolutions were
in very full bloom as he walked up on that
Sunday evening to the little red villa. In
saying this the writer does not, for a moment,
wish to raise a smile at the Colonel's expense.
Far from it. To those who look
below the surface and recognize how very
seldom men and women do actually
sacrifice their own desires to the ruling
of an idea, there is something fine in such
a man's directness and singleness of purpose ;
in his voluntary self-abnegation ; in his
readiness to do violence to his own feelings,
if, by the doing of such violence, he
can preserve w T hat appears to him an
ideal fitness of things. There is a grain of
heroism, surely, in an honest acknowledgment
of one's own disabilities  a heroism
all the more rare of attainment because
surrounded with romance and glamour,
because not in the very least exciting.

Colonel Enderby had determined to stand
aside, to efface himself, not so much as to
hint at his own feelings. They were strong
strong enough in all conscience, as he
owned to himself, almost with shame 
hut he himself was stronger. He looked
the matter fairly in the face, judged it, and
turned away. He thought it would belittle
short of dishonourable to trade upon
Jessie's innocence and inexperience, to use
his love, still more his age or loneliness, asa
claim upon her pity. The Colonel, by the
way, accredited Jessie with a number of
virtues, of the existence of which her
conduct and conversation had given but
limited indications. But, then, lovers
have a proverbial power of balancing
inverted pyramids, going to sea in sieves,
and successfully performing other feats of
a kindred nature, impossible to a faithless
and unbelieving generation.

The girl must go to England, he thought.
She was pretty enough and original enough
to make a distinguished marriage. She
should marry a man, young, brilliant, and
hopeful as herself. And when that small

voice, which, is not the voice of conscience,
but the voice of something quite the
reverse of conscience  devout persons have
gone so far as to fancy it the voice of
Satan himself,  when this voice began to
suggest objections, to ask him inconvenient
questions  when, for instance, it inquired,
What and if this imaginary brilliant
young man turns out a gambler, a profligate,
or a drunkard?"  Philip remained
firm and clear-sighted. The fate which
lay before Jessie in the future, it was
no business of his to predict. God knew ;
and it was not for him, Philip Enderby,
to indulge his own passion under the
specious pretence of acting special providence
to her, and protecting her from
possible trouble. His duty was to leave
her free ; free as the soft breeze of the sparing
night. To speak his mind fearlessly to
Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay, and then go away
and forget  for Philip had no morbid
craving to pose, as a man with a history,
or to hug a useless regret  that he had
ever come near being something more to
the captivating young lady than her father's

old and faithful friend. That was the right
course for him to pursue.

As far as his personal appearance went,
the Colonel had rarely showed to greater
advantage that he did on this occasion.
The fighting light had come into his blue
eyes, and his jaw was set and square.
Strong emotion, in some men, produces a
singular effect of youth. It refines and
chastens the face. Philip looked some six
or eight years under his actual age, as he
walked up rapidly through the trellised
vines,  w 7 hose young leaves, where the
waning moonlight touched them, seemed set
in a tiny rim of silver.

By following a narrow path across the
vineyards you avoid the many zig-zags of
the carriage road. This path comes out on
the right, at the foot of the terrace on which
the house stands ; and, passing along close
under the wall of masonry, joins the main
road some twenty yards further on, at the
bottom of the final ascent.

As Colonel Enderby reached the end of
the path and turned along under the wall,
he heard voices on the terrace immediately

i

above him. He could not see the speakers,
owing to their position, and the intervening
screen of leaves.

"I believe he was always a very well-meaning
young man, not good looking, and
not very sharp, you know. We saw a great
deal of him at one time, more, in fact, than
I really wished  not that I want to say
a word against him, pray understand that ;
he was perfectly inoffensive."

Philip received a slight shock. The voice
a woman's  had something alternately
aggressive and wheedling in the tones of it,
which struck him as unpleasant, yet dimly
familiar.

I think it must be the same," he heard
Mr. Ames answer ; there was no mistaking
his soft utterance. " The description tallies
admirably, except in one particular."

What particular ? "  this sharply by the
woman.

He is sometimes a little offensive now,
at least to me, dear aunt. But people
must develop, you know, in twenty years.
He is still not very sharp, as you put it ;
and he is eminently respectable."

VOL. I. u

Philip walked on quickly out of hearing.
He had an instinct that the foregoing
conversation concerned him nearly. Taken
all round, it was not a nattering piece of
criticism ; still, he derived a positive, if
unchristian, satisfaction from the knowledge
that he was offensive at times to Mr.
Ames. But that woman's voice ? He could
not fit a name or personality to it, yet
he became momentarily more and more
convinced that he remembered it very
well.

He walked fast along the vineyard path,
cutting impatiently at the straggling weeds
by the side of it as he did so, and then
turned to the right up the carriage road.
The steep slope of the ground compelled
him to slacken his pace.

Frogs were croaking and barking up at
the old reservoir, among the tall green
canes in the gulley on the left, and the
sharp metallic note of the locusts came
from the rose bushes ; but Colonel Enderby
with all his love of nature, was not in the
right humour to find pleasure in these
things. His pride rebelled against the false

position iii which he found himself. The
fact of having overheard something not
intended for his ears was intensely annoying
to him. That woman's voice troubled
him. All the uncomfortable side of life at
the Villa Mortelli, which had begun to pass
out of the range of his vision during the
last ten days, rushed into the foreground
again, with obtrusive distinctness. The
lines of duty and wisdom had showed plain
enough when he left Terzia some half-hour
ago ; but now they seemed to grow confused
and blurred. He felt suspicious, vaguely
disturbed. This movement of suspicion
extended itself even to the beautiful night.
The grasshopper became a burden, the frogs
with their everlasting clatter an absolute
nuisance. The scent of the orange-trees,
wafted down on the soft wind from the
garden beyond the house, was sickly in its
sweetness. There was a magical influence
abroad to-night, as baffling and perplexing
as the dim sense of familiarity which that
woman's voice had evoked.

At the top of the hill Colonel Enderby
paused. The scene before him was a

quaint and fantastic one. The usually
sober little villa seemed, for once, to have
put on a gala dress. The terrace stretched
away bathed in pale moonlight, save where
a broad shaft of more positive and yellower
light streamed out across it from the hall
door. The garden was gay with a number
of little, coloured, paper lanterns, swaying
gently in the breeze, and showing here
and there, in high relief, the blossoms and
foliage of the adjacent shrubs, with spaces
of dusky shadow in between. From the
garden came a sound of voices.

But that which specially arrested Colonel
Enderby's attention was a pair of white
figures on the terrace, directly in front of
him  one that of a girl, the other of a child
some five or six years old. The two were
playing together, running lightly to and fro,
laughing and calling to each other in tones
fresh and clear as bird-notes. There was
a weird unearthly effect in these pale
flitting figures. For a few T seconds, crossing
the shaft of light streaming out from
the doorway, they would become materialized,
honest flesh and blood ; then stepping

back into the moonlight again, they instantly
regained a vague ethereal character.


Philip hesitated ; he stood still watching
them. Under the circumstances, it was
difficult to know exactly how to act. He
could not bring himself to walk up calmly
to the young lady in the midst of her
mystic evolutions, and greet her with some
stereotyped remark upon the state of the
weather. His taste made him recoil instinctively
from so very unimaginative a
mode of procedure. And there was something
more restraining than mere good
taste in Philip just now. He was in that
heightened state of moral and emotional
consciousness, in which conventional ways
of conducting one's self are quite the least
easy or obvious. Seeing Jessie again in the
light of the confession he had so lately
made to himself, the poor Colonel was
almost painfully aware how much she was
to him; how delightful he found her
presence ; what a tender and yet penetrating
value her every look and action had
for him ; how terribly sweet it would be

to take her in his arms, to hold and keep
her for ever next his heart. And yet as she
laughed with merry, meaningless laughter,
and ran with light quick footsteps after the
laughing child, she seemed cruelly beyond
his reach, a creature of some young, far-off,
ideal world. Yes, love was indeed
working. In Philip the dear, tremulous,
delicious heartache had fairly begun, and
I, for my part, entirely refuse to pity him.
The piteous moment only comes, for each
one of us, when that happy pain is cured
for ever.

Suddenly the child set off running straight
along the terrace, looking back, and calling
to the girl behind him as he ran. Catching
sight unexpectedly of Colonel Enderby's
tall dark figure in front of him, the boy
swerved with a shrill cry of fright, and
would have fallen headlong, if Philip had
not stepped forward and caught him by the
arm.

Look out, my little man," he said kindly
or we shall have you tumbling on your
head."

Jessie paused on hearing the child's cry.

She stood still for a moment, and put up
one hand, with an instinctive movement to
smooth the coils of her fair hair. Then she
came forward slowly. The moonlight fell
softly upon her straight slender figure.
Her head was thrown hack, and there was a
charming half defiant smile on her face.

Those desirable blossoms which had shown
so thick on Philip's patch of good resolutions
wilted and faded curiously at this
juncture. The fruit of them, if it ever
came to perfection, promised to be a detestably
bitter mouthful. He was rapidly
passing out of the region in which a man
thinks and reasons, into that far more
interesting and, also, far more dangerous one
in which he merely feels. But he fought
gallantly with the rising tide of his own
passion. He would go away tomorrow.
It would be folly, and more than folly, to ask
this mere child to marry him, and yet  yet,
how he could have loved her ! How gladly
he could have consecrated all his life to her
service ! With what fulness of satisfaction
he could have borne her off from this
crowded, hot, suggestive Italian land, and

watched her nature unfold its full sweetness
through the long, still English summer
days, amid the broad green country, and
in the innocent northern sunshine ! He
fancied the girl would be far more at home
at dear, stately old Bassett Darcy than in
the sultry artificial glamour of the Villa
Mortelli.

All this flashed through Philip's mind
as Jessie, in flowing w T lite garments, came
forward in the cool moonlight. The garden,
with its tawdry coloured lanterns, its fitful
murmur of conversation, and tinkle of coffee-cups,
lay behind her. She was stepping
westward, away from it and all that it
implied  away from Bertie Ames and his
sub-acid humour, away from Mrs. 
and her dark restless affection,
away from unknown ladies with harsh, half-remembered
voices, away from that little
haunting evil-spirit of a monkey,  away
from all that, out towards the freedom and
gracious solemnity of the spring night  and
towards him.

Colonel Enderby dropped the boy's hand,
which had rested in his. He put the child

gently away from him, and stood waiting.
His eyes were very clear and steady; but
there was a certain pain in his expression,
as of one to whom a good gift is offered,
yet who is constrained, for very delight
in it, to refuse to put forth his hand and
take it.

The little boy, who did not apparently at
all relish this indifference on Philip's part
to his own small presence, ran up to Jessie,
and pulled at her dress, saying 

"Who is he? What does he want?
Don't let us stop playing because of him."

Jessie looked full at the Colonel for a
minute, then she bent down towards the
upturned face of the child, and said, with
her peculiarly clear and detached enunciation


Listen, Johnnie, and I will tell you who
he is. He is a kind friend, and a famous
soldier. He has seen great battles and
strange countries. And he never cried
when he was a little boy and nearly fell
down on the gravel. And," she went on,
very softly, " he promised to help me to
get away from the little red villa and go to

England, but I am afraid he has forgotten
all about that."

I don't want you to go away, Jessie,"
returned the boy, promptly. Evidently he
regarded most things from a personal standpoint.
" I want you to stay here and play
with me."

Colonel Enderby came up and stood near
Jessie. Her words had been wonderfully
pleasant to him. She rested one hand on
the boy's shoulder, and with the other
pushed back the heavy mass of brown hair
from his forehead, all the while looking up
with something between amusement and
appeal at the man standing opposite to her.

Philip felt a quickening of the pulse, and
a certain intoxication of the senses such
as he had not known for many a long day.
He would go  yes, he w T ould go ; but still,
it was not in human nature to cut short the
present moment.

You still want to get away to England
very much, then ? " he asked.

I don't care so much about it to-night,"
she answered, still passing her hand over
the boy's hair, " because I am amused.

But tomorrow, or the first clay it rains,
or Bertie is cross, or mamma has a headache,
I shall want to go as much as ever."

The tide of feeling was rising, rising in
Philip ; but he struggled with it manfully.

"I have come to-night on purpose to
speak to Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay on that subject,"
he said. " I ought to have done so
sooner, but the days have slipped by, and
I have had no suitable opportunity. I did
not forget, all the same."

Jessie looked down and gently patted the
child's shoulder.

"I do not fancy you are one of the people
who easily forget their promises, Colonel
Enderby. ' I said so just now ; I don't quite
know why,  but I do not really think it."

Philip took a long breath. He had some
difficulty in replying as calmly and unconcernedly
as he wished.

"You mustn't speak to me like that,
Miss Pierce-Dawnay," he said. "It makes
it rather hard for me to say to you that
which I came here to say."

Jessie glanced up quickly and attentively.

"I have come to bid you good-bye," he

went on doggedly. " I am obliged to leave
for Spezia tomorrow."

The necessity of that journey to Spezia
had become to Philip, in the last few hours,
a formula in which he instinctively took
refuge. To him the words held a world of
meaning over and above the actual statement.


"It is Mr. Drake," cried the girl. Her
expression altered curiously. " I don't
care for Mr. Drake."

Poor Drake ! " said Philip. " Ah ! I'm
afraid there is a good deal more in it than
can justly be put down to his account."

But you will come back again''

Jessie spoke with a most engaging little
air of entreaty.

Colonel Enderby shook his head rather
sadly.

No, I think not," he answered.

The girl turned away, almost petulantly.
Her soft white skirts swept against Philip
as he stood by her, and stirred the loose
gravel, as she moved, with a quick rattling
sound. She threw herself forward, leaning
her elbows on the low terrace wall, and

looked out over the dim vineyards into the
deep purple of the night. Her attitude
showed very markedly the supple beauty of
her figure  the strong delicate line of the
back from shoulder to waist, and the
graceful curve of her well-set hips under
her close-fitting white bodice.

"It is all no use then," she said.
Mamma will never go to England if you
leave her to herself. She will stay, and stay,
and stay. I do not know how it is, but I
believe when people have been some time in
Italy they cannot go away. They are under
a spell; they must remain. Mamma is like
that. If you leave us we shall stay here
always. Don't go, Colonel Enderby," she
cried, suddenly standing up and turning to
him. " Or if you must go, come back soon
again. Everything has been so much
pleasant since you came. Mamma has
been delightful to me ; we have had no
little scenes. And as to Bertie's melancholy,
it did not matter ; I had some one else to
think about."

Jessie spoke very simply and frankly,
looking into her companion's face. One

thing that helped to make this young lady
so truly captivating was an apparent
absence of all self-consciousness. There
was an effect of straightforwardness in her
little speeches which effectually robbed
them of coquetry.

As for Philip, he was hard pressed. If
there was a strain of egotism in Jessie's
regret, he did not very carefully consider
it. It w T as enough that the fair young
creature, standing there within a yard of
him, begged him not to desert her; told him
her days were pleasant for his coming;
trusted him thus in her beautiful and fearless
innocence. The moment was a critical
one.

Just then, however, the boy, who had
assisted very unwillingly at this interview,
in which his small personality seemed to
count for so little, lost patience altogether,
and broke into open remonstrance.

Come along, Jessie," he said, pulling at
her hand. " Let's come and play. Or else
take me to mother. I want to go to mother."

Mr. Bertie Ames came out of the garden.
He leant against the gate-post for a few

seconds, watching the group at the far end
of the terrace, and then sauntered slowly
towards them.

Come along, Jessie, don't you hear?
Do come," whined the hoy.

The corners of his mouth began to turn
down in an ominous fashion.

"Ah! don't cry," she answered quickly.
I do not like children when they cry."

The critical moment was over. Colonel
Enderby gathered himself together again.
He had been sorely tempted, but he had
mastered the temptation. He would be
true to the best he could see.

I will talk to Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay," he
said to Jessie. " You will trust me to do
my best ? "

Oh yes; as to that, I trust you very
fully. But, all the same, we shall stay on
here indefinitely if you go away."

"I must go away." Philip spoke gently
and gravely, looking very full at her. "I
must go for a very simple reason  I dare
not stay."

Chapter III.

THE JOYS OF Reunion.

"My dear Jessie," Mr. Ames began,
languidly, as soon as he was within comfortable
speaking distance, " are you disposed
to perpetrate an act of virtue, and
go and mount guard? Cousin Eleanor is
becoming a little nervous ; I am quite
nervous already. You are eminently welcome,
Colonel Enderby," he added, with
gracious emphasis. " Some relations of
mine have most kindly come to see me
to-day. We have not as much in common
as one could wish  my fault, of course,
I own,  and though family affection goes
a long way, and fills up many gaps, conversation
now is becoming the least shade
difficult. I have been looking forward to

your arrival with longing and hope. Would
you come and say something to them?
We should all unite in a movement of
gratitude unfeigned."

I shall he very happy to make myself
useful," said Philip, stiffly.

He detested Mr. Ames with amazing-cordiality
at that moment.

"That is so good of you," the other
man answered. Then he addressed Jessie,,
at whom he had glanced more than once
while speaking.

I wonder if you know how extremely
becoming that gown is ? " he remarked, ina
meditative manner.

"It does not much matter whether I
know it or not," she replied quickly.

If other people do, you mean," continued
Mr. x\mes, still looking at her, and
lifting his eyebrows slightly. " Commend
me to your fundamental good sense, Jessie.
It never deserts you."

"I did not say that," the girl answered,
with some warmth.

Oh no, of course not. If you had, it
would have tended to disprove my stateroom.

I. S

ment with irritating rapidity. But you
leave things to be understood. Your
taste is always admirable."

That is more than can be said of your
own, at times, Mr. Ames," broke in the
Colonel.

A number of subtle strains of feeling had
combined to endanger Philip's self-control.
He was bitter, and he lost his temper
pretty thoroughly. " That fellow, with
his nasty insinuations, will make her as
artificial and unbelieving as he is himself,"
he thought ; and then he added, mentally,
a certain desire concerning Mr. Ames'
future destiny, considerably more vigorous
than polite.

Bertie, meanwhile, stared at him with
an air of interested surprise.

Suppose we come into the garden," he
said. " Perhaps it would be safer. This
spot is exposed ; and medical men say that
moonlight is dangerous. It affects the
intelligence, in some cases. Shall we
come ? "

Few things are more acutely irritating
than that another person should triumphantly

retain his suavity of demeanour,
when you are conscious of having lost your
own. Bertie Ames practised this passive
form of torture frequently upon the members
of his acquaintance. He entirely refused
to be ruffled ; he became gentler and more
seriously polite and gracious,  that was
all. He was perfectly ready to pardon
small insolences, and bless those that
cursed him; and this not because his
spirit was penetrated with a conviction of
the inestimable value of the grace of
humility, but simply because it was not
worth while to get excited. Men and
things were profoundly unsatisfactory ;
this world is a most unsuccessful speculation,
bound to go wrong and prove a
bore. To permit yourself to be excited
or angry implied that you had expected
things to go right, and were proportionately
disappointed. It was crude, it was exquisitely
foolish to be disappointed ; and
if there was one thing Mr. Ames dreaded
it was being foolish. He did not dread
anything else very much. He was under
the impression that he had taken the

measure of the possible evils which could
befall him  lie believed lie was equal to
meeting them. He had not very much, he
thought, either to gain or to lose, barring
his belief in his own perspicacity. That
would be a heavy loss, and an irretrievable
one.

As to Colonel Enderby, Bertie had a considerable
respect for him. He fancied that
he understood the other man's character
pretty completely. He knew quite well
that Colonel Enderby disliked him ; but it
would have appeared about as reasonable
to Bertie to be annoyed with him on these
grounds as to be annoyed with a snail
for moving with deliberation, or with a
spider for enjoying a diet of flies. People
are the result of their circumstances, of
inheritance, nationality, education. To be
offended with them, poor dears, for what
they cannot possibly help, for sympathies
and antipathies, none of their choosing
and beyond their control, is simply absurd.
And so it conies about that a materialist
and necessarian creed produces some aspects
of the highest Christian endurance and

toleration  a really admirably glad suffering
of fools, combined with a beautiful absence
of any vindictive desire to bray the said
fools in mortars, with the professed intention
of grinding the folly out of them.

The immediate consequence of Mr. Ames'
philosophy on the present occasion, was
that he entertained his companion with
agreeable conversation as they walked
slowly after Jessie and the little boy down
the length of the terrace. His face was
mild and serious, his manner calm and
soothing. He treated the Colonel as one
treats a slightly insane patient, who should
be agreed with and humoured. Bertie
dawdled, loitered, gazed down over the
terrace wall at the vineyards and the town
below  did his best, in fact, to lengthen
out the little walk as much as possible, and
completely to engage Colonel Enderby's
attention.

Philip's wrath abated under these blandishments.
He thought he had been a
trifle rough on Mr. Ames. He did not care
to emphasize that movement of roughness.
He had plenty on his hands already, without

complicating matters by a brush, with
this imperturbable young gentleman. He
dawdled too, and listened very civilly to
Mr. Ames' advice as to the best way of
seeing Italy, and other kindred matters,
while his eyes followed Jessie's retreating
figure with lingering wistfulness.

As they went in at the dilapidated gate
of the garden Bertie was saying : 

"You should come for a winter, you
know. Florence, for instance, is delightful
in winter. And there generally is interesting
society there ; society that presents
a good deal of material to the imagination.
Yes, you should see it, Colonel
Enderby. You would form an element 
perhaps a new one. Society would be
obliged to you. By the way, my cousin,
Mrs. Farrell, who is here to-night, could
tell you a lot about Florence. She was
there a good deal a few years ago, before
her husband, poor Eugene, died. There
were original traits in Eugene's character.
Mrs. Farrell had some experiences, I fancy,
while she lived in Florence."

Colonel Enderby happened to look full at

Bertie Ames as the latter finished speaking.
His thoughts had been engaged with
somewhat penetrating personal considerations,
and he had hardly noticed what the
other man had been saying. The two
were standing quite near each other in the
narrow gateway. Glancing at him suddenly
the Colonel was aware of a singular expression
about his companion, of an [intentness
of gaze, as though he was watching
him with some distinct purpose.

Bertie Ames put his hand over his eyes
for a moment, with an indolent, half-disgusted
gesture.

Dear me," he said, " how vulgar those
wretched little lanterns look after the
moonlight ! and yet Jessie and I were rather
pleased with our illumination at first. Even
now  though I own it is a lamentable
exhibition of the intermittent purity of my
taste  I think it has a certain value. It
presents a contrast, and there is a great
deal to be got out of contrasts. They are
very teaching. They make one aware of a
number of sensations one might otherwise
miss. And at my age I begin to cherish

sensations  that is if they are not too
vivid."

He moved on as he spoke into the
gleaming garden ; and then, smiling amiably
at Philip, added 

Talking of contrasts, Colonel Enderby,
here is a sufficiently telling one. It is a
little unkind to one of the ladies, certainly,
but that, alas ! is unavoidable. Just
look there, at my cousin Jessie 
and my cousin Cecilia Farrell, nee
Murray."

Colonel Enderby came a few steps into
the garden too. He started, and could
hardly repress an exclamation. He was
conscious of a sudden luminous concussion
in his brain. The solid ground seemed to
give a lurch, and then slowly settle itself into
place again.

Where the four weedy gravel paths met
in the centre of the garden, with the light
of a row of swaying lanterns falling fully
upon her, Jessie stood, her white figure
showing in high relief against a dim multitudinous
background of leaves and flowers.
She was speaking with considerable vivacity

and animation  apparently describing her
late game of play. By her side, listening
to her clear speech, was a tall, thin, jaded
woman, who had undeniably shaken hands
with the days of her youth. She wore a
plain travelling dress of dark material ; and
gave the impression of being a tired, careful,
over-burdened individual ; of having reached
a state of mind in which she was indifferent
to those small niceties of feminine attire,
and was unequal to that prettiness of
gesture and manner so important to every
woman who retains her natural desire
of appearing to advantage in masculine
eyes.

As a connecting-link between these two
very dissimilar persons stood the little boy
holding the hand of the elder woman,
kicking about the gravel with his foot, and
putting in a remark from time to time in
thin treble tones.

I hope you have not tired yourself,
Jessie," said Mrs. Farrell, with an even
colourless utterance. " You have been very
kind in amusing Johnnie so long."

Jessie laughed gently. She looked wonderfully

sparkling with her fresh face and
quick, graceful movements. The emotion
she had displayed a short time before, when
talking to Colonel Enderby, had apparently
passed away, leaving no trace, save perhaps
a brighter light in her blue-grey eyes, and
a slight vibration in her voice.

"I am hardly ever tired," she answered,
unless I am bored, and then I just go to
sleep. Mamma says I am remarkably
strong. I am very glad of that. I am
not fond of sickness or sick people  it all
seems unnatural, you know."

Mrs. Farrell appeared a little bewildered ;
she drew the boy nearer to her as she
replied 

Sickness may be unnatural. I am sure
I don't know. It is very common."

Bertie Ames smiled. He glanced at the
two women under the orange trees, and
then at Colonel Enderby.

This contrast interests you ? " he
inquired.

The Colonel's expression had resolved
itself out of simple astonishment into one of
considerable resolution. The position w r asa

painful and embarrassing one, but he was
determined to carry it through with a high
hand.

u I believe I have the honour of knowing
that lady," he said, with some dignity of
manner. " She has probably forgotten me,
though, as it is a long while since we met.
I must ask you to mention my name to her,
to recall me to her remembrance."

Bertie Ames made a gesture of assent.

By all means. But here are Mrs,
Pierce-Dawnay and my worthy aunt, Mrs.
Murray, just coming out of that gnat-infested
little arbour. Speak to them first.
My cousin is not in her happiest mood
to-night, I grieve to say, therefore it is
advisable to observe formalities."

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay did, in fact, sweep
up to the two gentlemen in a rather unnecessarily
dramatic manner. She shook
hands with Philip in silence, and then
stepping aside said 

Colonel Enderby, Mrs. Murray. Mrs.
Murray assures me that you and she are old
friends. That was the term, wasn't it? 
old friends, Colonel Enderby."

Philip bowed profoundly to a voluminous
figure which blocked the archway of the
arbour.

"Ah! perhaps Colonel Enderby won't
admit the friendship," said the lady, with
a large and slightly biting archness of
address. "We women remember every
little event in our quiet monotonous lives ;
but with you gentlemen it is so different.
A thousand things happen to you, you
know, and deaden the old recollections,
while we poor things sit at home with our
fancy-work, and our memories, and our
regrets. Ah ! dear me."

Philip felt nettled.

"I too have an excellent memory, I
assure you," he said quietly.

"Eh! what?" exclaimed Mrs. Murray,
sharply.

Then she turned to Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay
with an assumption of great geniality of
demeanour.

We have always watched Colonel
Enderby's career with so much interest,
you know. The papers have not been
silent. They have given us information  -

very deeply interesting information at
times. I have often said to Cecilia, ' I
wonder if we shall ever meet Colonel
Enderby again ? ' And now that it should
come about through you, my dear Bertie,
in this unexpected way, really, you know,
it is very, very singular.' 7

The smile which accompanied these
words revealed a remarkably even and
glittering set of teeth. Mrs. Murray was
an old woman ; but she was extremely well
preserved, almost too well preserved, perhaps.
She was stout, high-coloured, and
completely mistress, apparently, both of
herself and of the situation.

My dear aunt, what greater happiness
can befall my unworthy self than to give
you pleasure ? Giving is more blessed than
receiving, you know. But in this case the
blessing seems to ricochet somehow; and
in the giving, I too am sensible of receiving,
in a measure."

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay looked rather hard
at the young man.

Bertie," she said quickly, " you are
talking nonsense. Come," she added,.

addressing the Colonel, " come and speak
to Mrs. Farrell."

Philip found himself bowing again stiffly
mechanically. He had a vision of a pale,
w r born, anxious woman's face ; and was aware
of a strange tightening sensation about the
muscles of his throat as he tried to deliver
himself of a civil and appropriate greeting.
The last time he had seen this woman she
was pretty and young ; he had loved her
devotedly ; he had kissed her at parting !
It seemed cruelly malicious on the part of
circumstance that he should meet her again
on this day of all days in his life, when the
cherished sentiment of years had fairly died
out into grey ashes, and the clear, intense
flame of a growing passion was quickening
the deep places of his heart.

For a perceptible space of time after
Philip's introduction to Mrs. Farrell there
was a silence. No one seemed disposed to
take the initiative. Then Mrs. Murray
began to repeat, with an air of being quite
determined to say something, her former
phrases about the lapse of time, the unfailing
memory of woman, the interest

excited in her mind by Colonel Enderby's
career, and the strange and agreeable chance
of this encounter.

I wonder," remarked Mr. Ames, gently,
"how far one really enjoys meeting old
friends. Sometimes it strikes me that
there is a grain of conventionality in one's
expression of satisfaction. I dare say I am
peculiar in the matter, but I find the sight
of old friends rarely fills me with unmitigated
rapture. You are fond of subtleties
of this kind, what do you think about it,
cousin Nell?"

Hadn't we better go down to the
hotel?" broke in Mrs. Farrell, speaking
hurriedly to her mother. Her face was
burning painfully ; and that, alas ! did not
improve her personal appearance. "It is
getting very late for Johnnie ; and we
haven't seen our rooms yet, you know."

Why do you squash my hand so tight,
mother?" asked the little boy, fretfully.
You hurt me."

I too think Johnnie would be better
in bed," said Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay, suddenly.
There was rather a dangerous light in her
eyes.

"It is some way down to the town,"
Cecilia went on. " I think we had better
start soon."

"We shall see yon again, Colonel
Enderby," said Mrs. Murray, with much
warmth of manner. " I understand yon
are staying at Terzia."

Unfortunately, I leave tomorrow," he
answered. "But I will give myself the
pleasure of calling on yon in the morning,
if I may."

Directly he had spoken, Philip was aware
of having somehow committed an indiscretion.
Bertie Ames said "Ah!" softly,
under his breath ; and Eleanor rustled
suggestively.

"Dear me, I am so sony. I thought,
from my nephew's account, yon would be
here for some time longer. Well, well,"
Mrs. Murray went on, shaking one fat hand,
with its multiplicity of jangling bracelets,
at him playfully, "we shall see  we shall
see. Perhaps we may make you change
your mind, you know, notwithstanding all
that good-for-nothing Bertie's sarcasms
about old friends."

Then the excellent lady, with many expressions
of affection and gratitude for the
most delightful of evenings, took leave of
her hostess.

Jessie, go indoors with them," said
her step-mother. " See that Mrs. Murray
has her cloaks and things. You will pardon
my remaining here," she continued, turning
to Cecilia. " Bertie, you will take care
of your aunt. Antonio can go too, you
know, and carry the child."

As Jessie obediently followed in the wake
of her step-mother's guests, she passed very
close to Philip Enderby. Moved by a
momentary feeling, she stopped and looked
up at him, with a strange mixture of anger
and entreaty in her charming face.

It is no good, then; you are obdurate,
you still mean to go," she said quickly.
I must prepare myself to remain for ever
at the little red villa. I make you my
curtsy, Colonel Enderby. I have been
deceived in you."

The words cut Philip to the quick. The
whole meaning and purpose of the man
rushed together in one clear, over-mastering

YOL. I. T

impulse. He stretched out his arms to
grasp and keep her.

"Ah, Jessie," he said  " Jessie, I can't
part with you like this."

But the girl neither heard nor heeded him.
Having delivered her soul of its burden of
resentment, she turned and fled. He saw
her pale figure drift swiftly across the semi-darkness
of the terrace, flash into clearness
for an instant in the yellow light of the
doorway, and then disappear within the
house. To follow her was impossible ; it
meant coming face to face with that painfully
playful old person, Mrs. Murray; it
meant making a confession which reason
and sentiment alike condemned. He took
a long breath ; set his teeth ; and went
back to seal his fate by speaking to Mrs.
Pierce-Dawnay.

That lady, meanwhile, had, perhaps fortunately,
been too self-occupied to take any
note of the little scene between her stepdaughter
and her guest. She was suffering
an acres of nervous irritation. She had flung
herself down in a wicker-chair beside the
table, with its half-empty coffee-cups, and as

Colonel Enderby came up to her she broke
out into vehement protest.

"Heaven help us, but what a woman!
She is the most abominable old vulgarian.
She sets every tooth in my head on edge,
and her insinuations are little short of an
insult. There is a mauvaise league, if you
like ! Wretched Cecilia to have such a
mother ! And really it is too vexatious that
Miss Keat should be away just now; it

is Ah ! well  but, Colonel Enderby,

tell me, what on earth has made you decide
to rush off to Spezia like this, at an hour's
notice?"

As she ceased speaking, Eleanor raised
her eyes to Philip's face. Something in his
appearance arrested her attention. He
stood still, almost rigid, before her; yet
there was a singular intensity and concentration
of purpose about him.

The answer to her question came promptly
enough.

You must pardon me, Mrs. 
; I cannot give you my reasons forgoing
away. But they are imperative, believe
me, all the same."

Her forehead contracted into a frown,
half annoyance and half thought.

I do not understand you."

I understand myself only too well,"
answered the Colonel, not without a grain
of bitterness.

A sound of footsteps and voices came from
the direction of the house. The guests
were departing. Then Parker, tall and
angular, stalked into the garden.

If you're going to stay out here, ma'am,
any longer," she said, " you must put more
on. Mr. Ames sent out this cloak. I
meant to bring one out myself, anyway."

Parker's manner towards her mistress
was not weighted with any superabundance
of ceremony. Their acquaintance dated
from the days of sensible nurse and more or
less spoilt child, and a savour of that relation
survived between them still. Eleanor
submitted very readily to have the cloak
wrapped about her.

"I suppose I can put out those lantern
things ? " Parker went on.

Oh, leave that to Antonio. You can't
reach them," answered Eleanor.

The worthy waiting-woman smiled grimly.
"I can reach them just as well as
Antonio. And he won't be back for the
best part of an hour. The candles are
burnt right down ; they'll set fire to the
paper before long."

Oh, do as you like; you always have
your own way in the end, you know."

With that Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay got up.

Come on to the terrace," she said to
Colonel Enderby. " Tell me," she added,
as they moved away, " are your reasons forgoing
connected in any way with the people
you met here to-night ? "

No, I had decided to go before I saw
your guests this evening. I had already
mentioned the fact to your daughter."

Eleanor leaned against the low terrace
wall.

This is all very abrupt," she said.

In the garden Parker extinguished the
coloured lights one by one. There was
something rather fateful about her tall,
gaunt form. It was difficult to believe
that the harsh-featured, bony woman did
not derive a cruel satisfaction from cutting

short the pretty, frivolous, superfluous brilliance
of those swaying lights.

Philip watched her in silence for a
moment, then he spoke simply and earnestly.
The fact that he was sternly
putting out all his own gay-coloured hopes,
just as Parker yonder w r as putting out the
gay-coloured lanterns, lent a penetrating
quality, a ring of simple eloquence to his
speech. He alluded to their former conversation
; he reminded Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay
that she had asked his advice  now he gave
it. She had spoken of her step-daughter's
future  let her take the young girl home
to England, to her own country and kindred,
and find a worthy suitor for her there.
Foreigners and half foreigners," he said,
seem to me likely to make very poor
sort of husbands. " For her own peace of
mind, as well as for Jessie's welfare, he urged
her to go, and go soon,  to renew intercourse
with her own and her husband's relations,
to pick up the threads of English life again.

Eleanor listened quietly. When he had
finished, she spoke with an air of abstraction.

That is what you advise, then ? "

Yes, that is what I advise. I have thought
the matter over as carefully as I know how.
That is what you ought to do."

Eleanor raised her shoulders irritably.

Oh, you are mistaken  mistaken," she
exclaimed.

No, I am not  I wish I was mistaken,"
said the Colonel sadly. " I have found
the last fortnight very pleasant, Mrs. 
; it is not to please myself that T
go away."

He wanted to enlarge on this text and
make a civil speech ; but somehow the
words stuck in his throat  the speech
refused to come off.

Eleanor shook hands with him in silence ;
then, when he had got a few steps away,
she called after him.

You do not start early tomorrow ? "

Colonel Enderby turned back.

"I shall go by the mid-day train," he
answered.

At the end of the terrace he took a last
look at the Villa Mortelli. The moon had
set some while before. The house loomed
up a black shapeless mass, with a window

here and there gleaming faintly from light
within. The frogs and cicada had concluded
their long concert. Only the muffled
roar of the surf sounded up from the beach,
and the night wind w T whispered and rustled
among the stiff leaves of the old ilex trees
at the near end of the upper vineyard path.
Far below, the lights of the town twinkled
amid the rich purple obscurity of the night.
To Colonel Enderby the last fortnight
seemed of the substance of a dream, ethereal,
unsubstantial. The pretty play was played
out ; the curtain had come down ; the spectacle
was over ; the common work-a-day
world claimed him as its own once more.
He believed, at that moment, that he had
said good-bye for ever to all extravagance,
whether of joy or sorrow. Wife, child,
home  those eternal sources both of purest
pleasure and keenest pain, were not for him.
He would go away ; go back to his soldiering.
It had consoled him long ago, perhaps it
would contrive to console him again. He
thought, with a species of ascetic satisfaction,
of the innumerable rows of black
huts at Aldershpt, of the unlovely barrack

buildings and the church crowning the
rising ground, of the bare drab waste of
the Long Valley, with its encircling ranges
of sombre fir trees and stretches of dark
heather.

Henceforth, as far as love and pretty
young girls went, he would honestly accept
his age and disabilities ; he would put that
side of things away for ever, and patiently
submit to consider himself shelved in
questions of the affections.

Upon my word, though," he said to
himself while walking along the narrow
street of Terzia, between the tall frowning
houses  " upon my word, I have had a
pretty hard day of it."

Just then Mr. Ames, slim, a shade overdressed,
and with an air of exquisite suavity,
met him.

"Ah! good-night, Colonel Enderby," he
said. "Is it true that we have the misfortune
of losing you so soon ? Still, notwithstanding
the prospect of parting, I
own I am a happy man to-night. I have
the heart of a child. I revel in the possession
of a clear conscience. After all, what

pleasure is comparable to a sense of accomplished
duty ?' '

Lifting his hat, he passed on, without
waiting for any answer.

Philip Enderby had a momentary longing
to find himself opposite to Mr. Ames at a
distance of twenty paces, with accessories in
the form of pistols, seconds, and a surgeon.
It made the fact of his renunciation none
the easier, that he left that enigmatical
young gentleman behind him in full possession
at the Villa Mortelli.

Chapter IV.

MR. AMES FINDS HIMSELF UNEQUAL TO
THE OCCASION.

When she parted with Colonel Enderby,
Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay was in a somewhat
excited frame of mind. Like many persons
of apparently strong will and strong character,
she had at bottom a great necessity
for moral support ; she was, in truth, extremely
dependent. She found it impossible
to keep things to herself; she was compelled
to overflow, so to speak. Very often she
made most compromising mistakes by overflowing
to quite the wrong person.

She went indoors, and upstairs into the
drawing-room, which looked depressing and
ghostly in the feeble light of a pair of
candles set on the piano. Jessie had been
playing earlier in the evening. Some loose

music was scattered about, and a little
bouquet of flowers, which Bertie had given
the girl when she came down dressed for
dinner, lay fading on the turned-back lid
above the key-board. Eleanor regarded
these indications of her pretty stepdaughter's
late presence without any very
warm signs of maternal, or even step-maternal
tenderness. In point of fact, they
appeared to aggravate rather than modify
her former agitation. She clasped her
well-shaped hands together with strong impatient
gesture, and began to pace backwards
and forwards up and down the whole
length of the long room, her black lace
mantilla swaying with the alternate drooping
and half-angry raising of her head,
while the heavy train of her black silk dress
made a rasping noise as it dragged over the
marble floor.

Mr. Ames came in, after a while, arid
came in, too, in a charming humour. He
even went so far as to hum a few bars from
one of Mephistopheles' merry evil-sounding
songs in " Faust " as he came upstairs.

Ah ! dear cousin Nell, you are still up.

This is an unexpected bit of good fortune.
Let us talk."

Eleanor glanced at him from under her
dark eyebrows. Her nostrils dilated slightly.
She looked like a well-bred horse which
lays back its ears, half in nervousness and
half in viciousness.

"I will sit down, if you don't mind,"
Bertie continued. " I am slightly exhausted.
I see you are walking off the
effects of my dear aunt Mrs. Murray's
society. It needs walking off, I admit.
Don't let me interfere with that salutary
process. We can talk just as well so."

She is a detestable old woman," said
Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay over her shoulder, as
she swept up the room again.

Ah ! there you over-shoot the mark,"
he answered, in a mildly argumentative
tone. " She is not detestable; she is only
powerful. You are rather powerful too,
you know, Eleanor, at times. And two
powerful women rarely get on quite happily
together. But I am really sorry for my
aunt all the same. She compassed sea and
land to make good marriages for her

daughters, and now all their highly desirable
husbands refuse to have anything to do
with her. She has had to fall back on
Cecilia. Cecilia has a positive genius for
doing her duty."

I always have thought Cecilia more or
less of a fool," said Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay
incisively.

Yes; but she is a good fool; and that
is more or less of a good thing. To-night
I love her dearly. She completely routed
our valiant Colonel."

Eleanor stopped abruptly in her agitated
walk.

What do you mean ? " she exclaimed.

Bertie Ames leant back in his chair,
rested his elbows on the arms of it, and
pressed the tips of his fingers together,
with the air of a man who is full of a
gracious sense of well-being.

It was truly refreshing," he said. " It
was just one of those delicate little episodes
that make life more than endurable for a
short period. I guessed a good deal from
certain things which my aunt said when we
first mentioned Enderbv's name. I ascertained

that they had not met since the balmy
days of youth, and that at that remote epoch
he had been seriously smitten with Cecilia.
Cecilia had also entertained tender feelings
towards him, prior, of course, to her connection
with that plausible scapegrace,
Farrell. I was grieved to inflict any discomfort
on her, poor dear soul ; but what
would you have ? One can't too closely
consider everybody."

Eleanor walked on again. Her head was
bent ; she looked anything but delighted at
this little narrative.

I was sweeter than honey and butter to
the Colonel, who, on his part, was not quite
as civil as he might have been to me. But
I bided my time. I arranged a delicate
revenge."

Revenge ? " she interrupted sharply,
Why, what quarrel have you with Colonel
Enderby ? "

Oh, no personal quarrel, I assure you,
He has the liveliest contempt for me ; but
I don't mind that  it is a mere matter of
temperament. He can no more help it
than that nameless but historic person, of

whom we used to be told in our youth,
could help his head swelling when he
eat gooseberries. I revenged not so much
my wretched self, dear cousin Nell, as
all unsuccessful, unrespectable, vagabond
humanity. I have a large share of those
primitive instincts of fallen man which
make dirty, worthless, little boys, in the
gutter, throw a handful of mud at the nice,
clean, well-conducted little boys who roll
by them, sitting up in well-appointed
carriages. I planned a telling scene. I
let the sight of Cecilia burst upon our
friend as she was standing talking to
Jessie under the orange trees. You can
picture the contrast."  Bertie Ames laughed
softly to himself. " It was dramatic. The
poor Colonel really behaved very well.
But, to use a vulgar phrase, it knocked
the wind out of him for a few seconds very
effectually. "

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay was at the far end
of the room. She spoke with a trace of
hesitancy.

No doubt he felt seeing Cecilia again,
under the circumstances. But  I suppose

I am stupid  I confess I don't quite catch
the point of the contrast with Jessie."

"Heaven help us, Eleanor, where are
your eyes ? " cried Mr. Ames, holding up
his hands. "Why, poor man, to put it
coarsely, he is simply over head and ears in
love with Jessie! "

Mrs. Pieree-Dawnay came slowly down
the length of the room. Again she had that
appearance of laying hack her ears, and
showing the whites of her eyes. As she
passed the young man, she said, with something
rather forced in the calm of her
manner 

"Ah, you think so too, do you? I am
glad of that."

There was a moment's silence.

I don't think that is quite kind of you,
cousin Nell," he observed. "Has not
Jessie had plenty of victims already ? I
merely perpetrated a passing practical joke.
You go farther, it seems, and with no fair
cause. Why should you want the poor
man to he tortured ? "

"I don't want him to he tortured," she
answered, keeping her eyes fixed on the

VOL. I.

floor. "I have the highest regard for
Colonel Enderby. I desire earnestly to
secure his happiness."

Bertie Ames remained very still. The
air of enjoyment had pretty well died out of
his face.

Pardon me," he said, "but would you
mind sitting down, Eleanor ? The scraping
of your dress is getting a little on to my
nerves. It confuses me. I confess, for
example, I don't clearly apprehend the
meaning of your last speech."

As he spoke Mr. Ames looked very full at
his companion.

Strong as Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay might
appear, this man certainly exercised a remarkable
influence over her. She knew
quite well that the die was cast, and that
a dangerous and painful scene lay before
her  how dangerous and painful it might
prove she could not as yet determine; but
that it would tax her courage and fortitude
pretty severely she was already sure.
In her present state of hardly repressed
excitement, it would be far easier to her
to say what must be said moving to and

fro. Yet when Mr. Ames looked steadily
at her, and pointed to the sofa opposite to
him, she wavered only for a moment, and
then sat down.

That is better," he murmured. "lam
idiotic, no doubt, but I repeat, I do not
clearly understand what you mean."

Eleanor leant back among the large sofa
cushions. Movement and feeling had
brought a glow of colour into her cheeks.
In her rich elaborate black gown, with
the soft lace falling back from her dusky
hair, she was undoubtedly a strikingly
handsome and distinguished-looking woman.
Physically she gave way before her companion,
a nervous tremor shook her ; but
mentally she hardened herself against his
influence. She half shut her eyes, and
clasped her hands tightly together as they
lay on her lap.

"I intend to encourage Colonel Enderby,"
she said slowly. " To be quite frank with
you, I wish to secure Jessie's future, and
I believe that he would make her an
admirable husband."

Bertie Ames did not move ; but he turned
very pale indeed.

All ! " lie said, with a queer shuddering
intonation. It was something like the
cry of an animal in pain.

Eleanor sat tip quickly. She raised her
hands and tore open the lace at her
throat. She wanted air, she felt as though
she would stifle. It was dreadful to her
to see this man suffer  but it was almost
equally dreadful to perceive why he
suffered.

Don't take it like that, Bertie," she
cried, with sudden violence. " It is hideous.
You will drive me mad."

Bertie Ames hardly heeded her outburst.
He smiled a little. Eleanor covered her
eyes. His poor white face and that pitiful
mockery of a smile turned her faint.

I understand perfectly well now, thank
you, Nell," he said gently. " I flattered
myself I was prepared for most things ;
but one's imagination, I observe, has a
habit of just missing what is most probable.
One's philosophy, too, fails at critical
moments. It enables one to bear imaginary
evils perfectly well. It is not so successful
with real evils. Well, I own myself beaten.

You are the cleverer of the two by a very
long way. I had not thought of this combination.
Jessie's future demands a victim,
of course  but I am to be tortured this time,
I see, not Colonel Enderby."

What could I do?" she exclaimed.
1 have suspected  feared how things were
going with you ; but I did not dream it
had gone as far as this. And then," she
added, with a sort of gasp, "it may come
to nothing, after all."

I don't think so." the young man
answered, with that same wretched smile.
Everything w T ill turn out as you wish 
at least, if you keep on."

I must keep on," said Mrs. .


She threw back her head ; her face w r as
hard and set. Then almost immediately
she softened again into a tone of pleading,
with a wild longing to justify herself, to
prove that her motives were commendable.

"I do it for the best, Bertie. I believe
it is right. It seems the safest thing I can
do for the child. And who can care for her
happiness as nearly as I ? Am I not, after

all, practically her mother ?  mustn't I
know best ?  mustn't I be most capable
of judging ? Do you think I could be so
base and faithless as to do this thing
lightly or thoughtlessly? I have prayed,
I have prayed over it  God wouldn't be so
cruel as to let me make a mistake ? I
have implored for guidance."

Mr. Ames laughed. It was not an
agreeable laugh exactly.

Oh ! in that case, I, of course, have
nothing further to say. If the Higher
Powers have been duly consulted, persons
such as I am are out of it, clearly. Still
you may pity me just a little, cousin Nell,"
he went on. " It was my last hope. I
hardly allowed that it amounted to a hope
even. It was the remotest of chances ;
but just a chance still. Jessie is so young.
I fancied, perhaps, the luck would turn;
that something might possibly happen if
we could only wait."

Eleanor's expression hardened again perceptibly.
If he suffered, at least she
suffered too.

Keally," he said, after a minute or two,

"my position is a singularly graceful one,
now I come to think of it. I have been
cherishing a secret desire during the last
few months for nothing less than the death
of a woman I adored for years  a woman
who gave me all she had to give." Bertie
paused. " Now the news that she has
developed some fatal malady would give
me  well, not unmixed pain. Isn't that
charming ? ' '

"You make yourself out far worse than
you are," she interrupted.

No, I think not. I appear to be a very
despicable animal, and let me at least be
honest and admit it. The best thing
about me has been my faithfulness to the
memory of what was, in itself, a far from
pretty thing  Enderby, for instance, would
cover it by a very ugly word. But even
that last shred of honourable feeling has
worn iincoinmonly threadbare in the past
twelve months."

Jessie would not make you happy,"
said Eleanor, hoarsely. " I have watched
her from babyhood. There are strange
wants in her nature."

"All! if I am to wait for a wife till I
find a faultless woman, I shall wait through
all eternity," he responded. " ' One man
among a thousand have I found; but a
woman among all those have I not found.' "

"Where did you get that abominable
sentiment from?" demanded Mrs. .


Out of that very acute book, the Bible,
cousin Nell. They are the words of a
person who is reputed to have had a pretty
wide experience of women. My French
novels, that you sometimes gird at, say
the same thing, only they put it in less
conventional language. I am as well aware
of Jessie's peculiarities as you are ; but I
should understand her. I should never
ask of her what she could not give. I
should be contented with very little  from
Jessie."

"You would quarrel," she said bitterly.

Yes," he answered, " it is a way
husbands and wives have. Everybody
knows that. Still, that knowledge has
never lowered the marriage returns very
sensibly yet, I believe."

Eleanor flung herself back against the
sofa-cushions. " He loves her  he loves
her," she repeated to herself, and the words
stabbed her as she said them.

Mr. Ames got up ; he came across to
the sofa and sat down by his cousin. His
face was very pale still  it looked ghastly
with his black beard and great, sad, dark
eyes  but he had regained much of his
usual indolent manner.

Come, let us talk over this matter
reasonably, Eleanor, without any heroics.
We both admit that Jessie has certain
peculiarities which may prove difficult to
deal with. A man will have to pay a
certain penalty for loving hera

Colonel Enderby will love her too well
to be conscious of the penalty," she interrupted.


"At first, yes. But remember he is
five-and-twenty years older than she is, at
least, and he has lived in an utterly different
world to hers. He will worship her, he will
be incapable of looking at her from a commonsense
point of view  looking at her as
she really is. He will make her into an

idol. Some day something will happen
which makes a demand upon her. She will
fail him. He is a fine fellow, in a way,
though a stupid one. He will blame himself,
and forgive her. It will happen a
second time. And then shall I tell you what
he will do ? He'll just quietly go and blow
his brains out. The man is incapable of
adjusting himself, he moves all of a piece.
He is a rigid English Puritan, you know r ,
at bottom."

"You don't mean to insinuate anything
against Jessie ? " cried Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay,
her eyes blazing with a sudden burst of
jealousy for the girl's honour.

Heaven forbid ! Jessie will never commit
any of those indiscretions that society
judges very harshly."

There was a silence : then Bertie Ames
bent towards his cousin and looked at her
very steadily.

What are you going to do  let him go
away tomorrow ? "

She looked back at him with an expression
of passionate anguish and despair
in her handsome face.

He must go if lie will. But I shall
make him distinctly understand my wishes
as to Jessie's future first."

Bertie placed his hand on Eleanor's two
hands as they lap r clasped in her lap. The
hot colour rushed into her face, she closed
her eyes with a swift shiver, which trembled
all through her frame.

Nell," he said softly, "think a moment.
Are you quite determined? "

Yes, yes," she cried wildly, shaking off
his hand. " Utterly determined ; irrevocably
determined. Jessie must go  she must go.
It must be done at once."

Very well," he answered.

Then he got up slowly from the sofa.

"It is very late," he went on. " You
had better go to bed. Shall I get you a
candle ? "

"Bertie, Bertie," cried Mrs. 
in desperation, stretching out her
hands to him, "for God's sake, don't hate
me!"

"Oh! my dear, I don't hate you," he
replied wearily. " You have been wonderfully
kind to me, and have borne with me

with a great deal of patience at times when
I must have been anything but pleasant
company. It would be detestably ungrateful
to hate you. No, I haven't fallen into
that depth yet. And perhaps you are right ;
perhaps it is all, as you say, for the best.
Only it is a little difficult for me to take
an optimist's view of the matter just at
present. I can't help thinking of myself
first, you know. It is a tendency inherent
in human nature ; we all have it in our
degree, saints and sinners alike."

He looked down on the ground, and
shrugged his shoulders in a lazy hopeless
sort of fashion.

I think, sometimes, I am like a living
man bound to a corpse. It is not a graceful
metaphor, but it just expresses my sensations.
Lately I have had an insane hope
of getting free from the corpse ; but I tied
the cords myself, and I tied them a little too
cleverly. I shall never get free  never.
That makes a man a trifle irritable at
times." He glanced up at her suddenly,
with a lifting of the eyebrows and a short
laugh, r" I and the corpse always," he said,

u right on to the end  and then beyond,
probably blank darkness and nothing.
Delightful company, isn't it ? Cheering
prospect for a healthy man of ?"


There were noble impulses in Mrs. .
She had a movement of reckless
magnanimity.

Your sense of honour is overstrained''
she said, and as she spoke no thought of
self was present to her mind. "It is false.
Go away, Bertie ; go away out of this beautiful
baleful country, which bewitches and
perverts us all  go away and begin over
again."

She had risen to her feet. She looked
almost majestic in her dark stormy beauty,
standing there in front of him.

In how far the young man had realized
the nature of her feelings towards himself,
I cannot say. That he had a suspicion of
them is pretty certain ; for it is impossible
that a woman should love a man deeply
without betraying herself to him in a
thousand little ways. But Bertie Ames
was not without gracious and respectful

sentiments towards certain persons, notwithstanding
his cynicism, real or affected. He
had avoided examining his cousin's feelings
on that special point very discreetly and
modestly. At this moment, however, he
was guilty of an act of cruelty ; hut then, in
extenuation of that act, it must he allowed,
poor fellow, that he was very sore at heart.
To Eleanor's magnanimous outburst, he
answered, smiling 

That is all very well, but I am not fond
of solitary journeys. A new heaven and
earth seem to demand an Eve as well as an
Adam. Who shall go forth with me ? 
Jessie?"

Eleanor shrank back as if he had struck
her. The glow of generous enthusiasm
died out of her face, leaving it thin and
haggard. She had to steady herself with
her hands on the arm of the sofa.

I beg your pardon," he resumed hastily,
filled with sudden compunction. " I forgot
myself; I oughtn't to have said that. But
don't, for heaven's sake, turn devil's
advocate and tempt me. You know just
as well as I do that that sense of honour 

call it false and overstrained if you will  is
the one thing that keeps me from going
utterly to the bad, and gives me some kind
of self-respect. Without it I should be
worth nothing at all; I am worth little
enough as it is. I may be superstitious ;
but I don't much fancy any fresh start
would be very successful which began with
the throwing of that poor old rag of honour
overboard."

Eleanor was silent. Bertie went across
the room, lighted one of the chamber
candles standing on the consol-table by the
door, and brought it to her. Small everyday
needs must be supplied, and small
civilities complied w T with, even when poor
human hearts are torn and bleeding. The
outward decencies of civilization take no
note of the more intimate emotions.

As Mr. Ames gave his cousin her candle,
and the light of it fell upon her face, he was
moved with compassion towards her.

''You look terribly tired, Eleanor," he
said kindly.

His friendly solicitude was, perhaps,
even harder to bear than his indifference.

Eleanor felt ill; she was chilled through,
though the night was warm. She, too, was
bound, she feared  bound hard and fast and
everlastingly to the corpse of a dead love.

"Yes, I am tired," she answered hopelessly"
tired of my life."

Bertie smiled at her kindly again, and
raised his hands with a deprecating gesture.

So am I, cousin Nell," he said, " abominably
tired of it. But you and I are cultivated
persons, so we won't take any violent
measures to rid ourselves of that fatiguing
possession, will we ? In , face of the blank
darkness I alluded to just now, it might bea
mistake. We'll leave all such desperate
doings to highly respectable barbarians, like
our friend the worthy Colonel. Good night.
Mind you don't slip on the landing;  the
floor is just like ice there, outside."

CHAPTER VI.

FOE AULD LANG SYNE."

It is rather dangerous to make a diffident,
slow-natured person the present of a new
idea. The idea, finding itself pretty well
alone in the mind of such a person, begins
to expand, to permeate, till at length it
becomes almost unfortunately dominant.

Cecilia Farrell's existence was a cramped
and monotonous one. The stock of ideas
upon which she maintained it was very
limited. It can be briefly inventoried in
two words  Duty and Johnnie. To Cecilia's
honour, be it repeated that Duty did hold
the first place, and Johnnie came second.
Dr. Symes had introduced a third idea into
her mind ; and, after a sharp struggle, she
accepted it, because it appeared to her
nearly allied to her primary idea of duty.

But once having accepted it, it began to
assume many fresh and inspiring aspects ;
the process of expansion and permeation
took place ; briefly, the new idea possessed
her.

After she had put her boy to bed that
night, and despatched her recantation to
the doctor, Mrs. Farrell found herself by
no means inclined for sleep. She had got
something to think about. She went
upstairs and sat down by Johnnie's iron
crib in her bedroom. The fire sent a broad
glow upon the ceiling. The house was very
still. There was a noise of bells in the air,
ringing down at the parish church some half-mile
away across the river. This was one
of the practising nights of the Advent
season ; and the sound of the peal came
fitfully on the wind, now loud, clear, hopeful,
running joyously down the scale ; then
turning and ringing change upon change in
an intricate pattern of sound ; and then
again dying away, becoming soft, uncertain,
distant  sad, ghostly bells, ringing the dirge
of days and dreams and aspirations long dead.

Cecilia laid her hand upon the counter-vol.

II. U

pane of Johnnie's bed, and leant her head
back against the wall behind her. The
bells affected her strangely. They carried
her back in thought to the picturesque
old cathedral city where she had first met
Philip Enderby ; and all the unfinished
romance of her girlhood unfolded itself
before her. She passed again pleasant,
sunny, summer afternoons on the broad
river, that slips away seaward below the
gardens and pretty dw T telling-houses of the
suburbs of the town ; and, further inland,
stretches in long, quiet, brimming reaches
under the shadow of steep woods and
between flat rich meadows, where the cattle
feed or stand staring with stupid curiosity
at the passing boats from among the flags
and blue geraniums and willow-weed upon
the low red banks. She paced again the
quaint, winding, paved walks on the city
walls, and felt once more that quickening of
the pulse and happy rush of half-trouble,
half expectation, with which of old, at some
turn of the narrow tortuous way, she had
suddenly come face to face with her lover.
She remembered every incident of the dance

given by the officers of the garrison, as a
parting token of gratitude to the rank and
fashion of the town and neighbourhood, for
the kindness shown them during their stay.
She recalled, too, her interview with Philip
Enderby two days later in the sitting-room
of Mrs. Murray's house, with its tall windows
looking over the city walls and the wide
green circle of the racecourse below, to the
sharp curve of the river, round a high wooded
promontory, under the hard lines of the redbrick
viaduct, and across miles of rolling
country to the faint blue-grey ranges of the
Welsh hills rising against the western sky.
Cecilia remembered the little presents he
had given her ; and the long, somewhat
untidy letters he had scribbled her during
those two years of patient waiting ;  remembered,
too, how the arrival of one of
these same untidy epistles spread a glory
over all the following day.

But there, upon my word you and I have
had nearly enough of this, sensible reader 
haven't we ? I own I feel like some ghoul
or other unholy creature when I begin
turning over a woman's little graveyard

of love-memories in this way. They are
such delicate, ephemeral, absurd little
things, that one is afraid of touching them
with clumsy, masculine fingers. They are
dead and buried, I know r , long since : and
yet, as one reads their simple epitaphs, and
perhaps inserts an inquiring, speculative
finger under the crumbling boards of their
coffin-lids, one has a sense that what lies
within quivers and shrinks away in modest
horror and anguish from the profanity of
one's investigations. Let us leave them to
rest in peace, then, and come back to the
robust and burly present.

When Mrs. Farrell met Colonel Enderby
again, there could be no doubt at all that
he was very much occupied with another
woman. The whole of the Terzia episode
had been deeply humiliating and distressing
to her ; not that she bore the Colonel any
grudge. Her own marriage, she held, had
entirely cancelled any vow of allegiance
he might formerly have made her ; too,
the idea of engaging in a competition
w 7 with Jessie Pierce-Dawnay was manifestly
ridiculous.  Cecilia admitted herself to be

plain, middle aged, uninteresting, with, rather
pathetic openness.

But now the scene had changed apparently.
Sorrow, pain, possibly death,
were ahead. She was not in the habit of
looking on the bright side of things, and
had accepted the darkest interpretation
of Dr. Symes' statement. Her mind projected
itself with intensity upon the situation,
and she saw that, along with, this
gloomy prospect, came her own opportunity.
She might now be of use ; and to be of use
too often in a sadly blind and blundering
manner  was the deepest necessity of
Cecilia's nature. She sincerely believed
she was responding to a call of duty. Alas !
Cecilia, look a little further into the question.
Those meetings and partings, those hand-pressing
and kisses of long ago, take this
affair somehow outside the strict limits of
cold duty, I fancy.

But meanwhile the poor thing had a
moment of strong exultation, as she sat
stiffly on her hard chair by her boy's bedside.
She would go and see Jessie ; plead
and reason with her; implore her to

acknowledge the truth  painful as it was 
and meet it bravely and lovingly. Never
mind, if at first the young girl should be
angry with her, and intimate in her neat,
clear-cut, smiling way, that she, Mrs. Farrell,
had been guilty of an impertinence. Just
now Cecilia felt herself strong, daring, not to
be baulked by anything. To set things right,
and then to retire into silence and obscurity,
seemed to her a rather splendid way of
terminating her relation with her old lover.

The bells clashed together once or twice
loud and clear. Then there was silence.
Little Johnnie Farrell woke with a
smothered cry, and sat up in his small
white nightshirt, his face flushed with sleep
and his eyes staring wide open.

Mother, mother, are you there ? " he
called. " I've had a horrid dream."

Cecilia put her arms quickly round the
little trembling figure.

Yes, dearest, I am here," she answered.

Master Johnnie recovered himself with
great promptitude.

That's all right," he said. " I was most
awfully frightened . ' '

Cecilia laid her thin, worn cheek against
the little lad's soft, round one, and pressed
him nearer to her ; hut the child drew hack
his head.

I say, mother, you're all wet and messy,
you know," he remarked, with an air of
considerable disgust. " I believe you've
been crying."

She had not known it before ; but now
that Johnnie called her attention to the
fact, Cecilia became aware that she had
been crying a good deal.

"I say, mother, you must stop off that;
I don't like it," continued the boy, in a
tone of high authority.

Then, as his mother wiped her eyes
furtively, he added, with the sublime egotism
of childhood :  " And, too, there's nothing
to cry for now that I'm getting better."

Cecilia's heart smote her.

"No, no, darling," she said; "there's
nothing  nothing at all to cry for."

Master Johnnie, having exercised the
hereditary right of the superior sex and
admonished his womankind, curled himself
comfortably down in bed again. His mother

watched him for a time ; and when at last
the boy's quiet breathing announced that
he had found his way back safely into the
mysterious kingdom of dreams, she knelt
down on the floor by the bedside and buried
her face in her hands.

For Cecilia had begun to suspect herself,
to question the purity of her motives. Her
thoughts had been vain, self-indulgent,
unbecoming ; she had been proud, rebellious,
self-seeking. In common with
most genuinely humble-minded and devout
persons, Mrs. Farrell's sense of sin was
profound. Keally, by the way, that same
sense of sin is a very singular phenomenon ;
for in proportion as sin itself is absent, the
sense of it seems to flourish in the human
heart. Cecilia's life for years had been one
long act of self-abnegation, and yet she felt
herself to be very low down in the scale of
Christian virtue ; her faults seemed numberless
and ever-recurring, her alienation from
the Eternal Goodness overwhelmingly great.
While Mrs. Murray, on the other hand,
whose progress through this world had not,
to put it mildly, been exactly that of a

prominent and conspicuous saint, was by no
means afflicted with any such consciousness
of her own shortcomings ; but trundled along
towards eternity in a very fearless and
light-hearted manner.

Mrs. Farrell remained a long while on
her knees,  praying both for herself and
for brilliant Jessie Enderby. She prayed
for Philip too. It does not very much
matter what she said. Mrs. Farrell was
not a talented or eloquent person ; and her
prayers were probably confused and imperfect
utterances, not in the least fitted
either to adorn the pages of a religious
biography or to be printed in some elegantly
bound volume of private devotions. Still,
such as they were, they brought her
strength and consolation ; and may, therefore,
be reckoned as proving personally and
subjectively fruitful, at all events.

Next day the idea was still dominant ; but
it had suffered a change. It had passed a
night within the grim precincts of a puritan
conscience ; and issued forth in the morning
no longer clothed in the delicate garments
of romance and tender memory, but wearing

the sober, ascetic habit of unadulterated
duty. Cecilia had reduced herself to order ;
and prepared to go forth on her difficult
mission to young Mrs. Enderby in the same
sternly mortified spirit in which she bore
the many and grievous burdens laid upon
her by her affectionate mother, or administered
nauseous medicine to the weeping and
recalcitrant Johnnie.

She had decided to go over to the Manor
House without delay. She therefore started
the following day, directly after an early
dinner, though the weather was bleak and
misty, and the roads were greasy with mud.

Cecilia had an unlucky habit of perceiving
things just too late. She was full of a
solemn conviction and a strenuous purpose ;
and it quite failed to occur to her that an
ill-shaped over-garment, boots unsightly
with mud, and the general demoralization
of the personal appearance consequent on a
long wet walk, might injuriously affect her
influence with Jessie Enderby. The children
of light, with their pure, straightforward
intentions, are very far, too often, from
being wise in these trivial matters ; and

the nobility of their motives does not, unfortunately,
prevent their finding themselves
at a corresponding disadvantage.

Mrs. Farrell  a tall, hurrying form, clad
in that most lamentable of all feminine
garments, a round waterproof cloak  took
her way by back streets to a quarter of
Tullingworth that lies across the river,
along the low ground, between the canal
and a range of dreary brick fields. This
region presents a marked contrast to the
rest of the smart, pleasure-loving little
town. It is a moral Alsatia, to which, by
the law of social gravitation, all the human
refuse of the place finds its melancholy way.
Mean, one-storied houses open on to narrow,
black wharfs and ugly cinder-paths, where
bargemen and labourers loiter at dreary
corners, and ragged shrill voiced children
angle for sluggish minnows in the slimy
water, while the smoke and stench of the
burning bricks fill the thick air. Dirty
little shops maintain a feeble existence, with
an attenuated show of attractions behind
the panes of their dim windows. Only the
public-house rises prosperous, cheerful,

defiant above the dingy squalor of unpaved
streets and lanes. Such places are altogether
too common on the outskirts of even
flourishing, well-to-do places like Telling
for it to be incumbent on one to
make much fuss over them : suffice it to say
that they, perhaps, wear their most forlorn
and forbidding aspect on a drizzling winter's
afternoon.

It was characteristic of Cecilia that when
asked to assist in parish w T work, she should
accept the care of this uninviting district,
which had proved altogether too hard a
morsel for the other fair devotees of Telling
Mrs. Murray had spoken her mind
upon the question ; and prophesied that
Cecilia would get little besides fevers, fleas,
and ingratitude as the reward of her
labours. Of the latter she did, in point of
fact, get a fair share. Her anxious looks,
her cold, yet hesitating manner, were not
calculated to render her popular. Only
Dr. Symes, indeed, in his most florid of
moments, could have hinted at her relation
to anything in the ministering angel
line. During Johnnie's illness Mrs. Farrell

had, not without sharp twinges of conscience,
somewhat neglected her unpromising
district. This afternoon, which she
had determined in any case to devote to
the service of others, seemed a fitting opportunity
for the paying of some visits already
overdue.

Revolving in her mind how she should
open her conversation with Jessie, Cecilia
went hastily along one of the unsavoury
lanes, without any careful picking of her
way among the cabbage-stalks, rubbish, and
grating cinders that composed the roadway ;
and stopped at the last house  a miserable
red-brick structure, abutting on the ,
excoriated stretch of
the brick fields. A slatternly woman stood
in the doorway of the cottage, nursing a
baby of some eight or ten months old ; and
two under-sized children, with thin pinched
faces, played about on the damp mud floor
just within.

You've come down at last, then, Mrs.
Farrell," said the woman. " I thought
you'd got tired and forgotten about us, like
the rest."

My boy has been very ill," replied
Cecilia, humbly. " I could not leave
him."

It's no use asking you to come inside,"
said the woman, pointing over her shoulder
at the bare room behind her, while she
slowly rocked the fretting baby in her arms.
The bit o' furniture went the day before
yesterday."

Went ? " inquired Mrs. Farrell ; " went
where?"

Went for rent. Nice place to pay rent
for, too, isn't it ? They left us a mattress
in the back room, for me and the children
to lay on o' nights, and that's all. They're
pretty w r ell pined, poor things, wi' the
hunger and cold. The men took the
blankets along wi' the rest, and there's
nothing to cover 'em ; so they might as w r ella
had the mattress too, as far as I see."

Cecilia fumbled in her dress pocket for
her purse.

'" I am very sorry," she said.

Oh, it ain't much use your being sorry,"
answered the other, shortly.

Then, suddenly, the poor creature sank

down on the worn grimy doorsill, and burst
into tears.

"Before the Lord, I've done my best.
But everything's been again me, what wi'
illness, and slack work, and one thing and
another. I've come down, and down, and
down. I said I wouldn't give in, and I
ain't ; but it's going a bit too far now.
Sometimes I think the canal there 'ud bethe
best place for all of us. It's best to
be dead  be dead, and out of it ; there's
no room for poor folks like us here in this
world."

Cecilia Farrell was deeply pained and
agitated ; she tried to speak, but the woman
interrupted her fiercely.

Oh, I know what you're going to say.
There's the Union. I know there's the
Union, as well as you do. Haven't I fought
up against it these months past ; though
I knew from the night my poor master was
brought home stiff and dead, last January,
it 'ud got to come to that at last ? Don't
you be afraid," she went on, looking up with
a gleam of bitter humour, as the two
children, frightened by her tears, pressed up

against her, crying, " Mammy, mammy : " 
Don't you be afraid; I shan't do them
any harm. May be I love 'em just as well
as you do that boy of yours you couldn't
leave to come and help us a bit. They're
very patient, poor things, but they can't
hold on much longer. They'll begin to cry
for bread soon ; and it'll go through me, and
I shall give in, and take 'em to the House."

Cecilia held out her hand ; she had
emptied the contents of her purse into it.

There, take it ; it's all I have got with
me. Feed the children, in any case."

The woman snatched at the money,
looked at it, counted it, and then laughed.

You're not one of the wise ones," she
said. " The w r rise ones give us precious
little but words w r e don't want. This '11
keep us out a few days longer, and any one
can see the poor things here 'ud be a deal
better in the House. You ain't wise, but
I like you none the worse for that."

Perhaps we can arrange something for
you," Mrs. Farrell said. " I'll do what I
can. I don't forget things. I'll come back
again tomorrow or next day."

You're going now, then ? Well, I don't
wonder. It ain't very pleasant hereabouts.
A lady like you soon has enough of it."

I have to go to another house where
there is trouble," said Mrs, Farrell, sadly,
as she turned away.

You needn't go further than next door
for that, then," the woman called after
her. " There's a sight of trouble both
sides of this lane here, 'most all the year
round."

Life seemed to Cecilia Farrell a terribly
dark and mysterious business, and her own
share in it sadly touched with incapacity
and failure, as she walked through the dirty
streets by the canal again, and, passing to
the left behind the evil-smelling gas-works,
turned into the broad well-kept high-road,
with fields on either hand, and neatly
clipped hawthorn hedges, that leads from
the outskirts of Tullingworth to Brooms-borough.
 Alsatia has the decency not to
obtrude itself upon the sight of comfortable,
well-to-do humanity ; it hides its ugly head
in unfrequented corners. You need know

YOL. II. X

nothing about it unless you want to, be it
remembered.

The drizzling mist had deepened into
unmistakable rain. Cecilia put up her
umbrella, and bent forward as she walked
along the road; while her cloak flew out
in a great balloon behind, then, collapsing,
it flapped in the rising wind, giving her
long, lean figure the strangest and most
ungraceful appearance.

CHAPTER VII.

A Tea-party WITH INTERLUDES.

"It will be just too perfectly lovely. You
will be a public benefactor Mrs. John Enderby.
 That is the right thing to say,
isn't it, Mr. Drake ? I feel rather awkward
about calling you Mrs. John Enderby; it
sounds familiar. I hope you don't mind
what I say sounding familiar? But you
will be a public benefactor. You will give
us animation. My husband, Ashley Water-field,
says the society of this county is the
most perfect thing in the world. Then I
think the most perfect thing in the world
is wanting in animation. Don't you think
the society here wants animation, now,
Mrs. Enderby ? You are like me, you come
in from the outside ; w r e have not the

advantage of being natives. My husband
says it's a great advantage to be a native.
I ask him, if it's such a great advantage to
be a native, why he did not marry a native,
instead of marrying me ? And, Colonel
Enderby, you didn't marry a native, either.
I think there must be advantages in not
being a native, too. I am sure there are
advantages in animation. Well, now,
Colonel Enderby, your wife is what I call
very animated. Don't you think it's an
advantage, any way ? "

The speaker, Mrs. Ashley Waterfield,
occupied a chair in Jessie Enderby's
drawing-room. It may be added that she
occupied it very fully ; not that she was
a large or overflowing person. Both in face
and figure she was not only eccentric r
but decidedly pleasing. She had a way,
however, on all occasions of appearing, to
present herself voluntarily for public inspection
; and of being so pre-eminently aware
of her own presence, that others became
almost, to themselves, irritatingly aware of
it too.

Mrs. Waterfield sat perfectly still in her

chair, with, her remarkably small hands ina
pretty pose on her lap, and poured forth
her stream of statement with extraordinary
rapidity, turning her head from side to side,
and addressing the different members of her
audience in turn. Deportment is a lost art
in England. On the other side of the
Atlantic it appears still to flourish. Mrs.
Waterfield had a great deal of deportment
somewhat of the monthly fashion-plate
order, perhaps ; but it made an impression,
nevertheless, upon certain sections of
English society.

"The real difficulty is young men," said
Mrs. Jack Enderby, as soon as a pause
enabled her to thrust in a remark. " Young
men are always the bother at a ball in the
country."

Mrs. Jack threw back the fronts of her
heavy ulster ; thereby exhibiting a fine bust,
and a waist still possessing claims to neatness,
encased in an irreproachably plain
well-fitting dress-body of rather loud checks :
Augusta Enderby's action was always large.
She was, perhaps, somewhat distressingly
healthy in appearance. Her steady colour,

abundant dark hair, bold, though kindly
brown eyes, strong voice, and positive movements,
gave one an impression of an almost
vulgar immunity from those ills that flesh
is heir to. She had a decided prejudice in
favour of herself and her own possessions,
which prejudice had the happy effect of keeping
her in a pretty constant good temper. In
short, she was, as her husband so often said
of her, " a capital good fellow." It may be
noted, in passing, that one's admiration for
Mrs. Jack had an inclination to find expression
in a class of terms usually reserved for
members of the stronger sex.

She had driven herself over to the Manor
House to-day, with her head full of an important
project. The time of mourning for
old Matthew Enderby was w T ell over ; and
Mrs. Jack had it on her mind to make
her public entry into local society, in her
new character of mistress of one of the
best-known places in South Midlandshire,
with nothing less than a really good ball.
She had come to discuss this question with
her pretty sister-in-law, for w r hose knowledge
of how to do things, and capacity for

detail, she possessed a high respect. Then,
too, Augusta had a lingering feeling that it
was by something of a fluke, after all, that
she, instead of the Colonel's fascinating
wife, found herself enthroned at Bassett
Darcy : and she took, in her large, good-hearted
way, such lively satisfaction in her
present dignities and possessions, that she,
perhaps, somewhat over-estimated Jessie's
loss in the matter, and felt particularly
anxious to defer as much as possible to her
young kinswoman.

Augusta's observation about the difficulty
of obtaining young men, opened the floodgates
of Mrs. Waterfield's discourse again
very promptly.

Why," she said, " now, Mrs. John
Enderby, there is Ashley to begin with. I
know he is married; but you would call
him a young man, wouldn't you, though he
is married ? I call him a young man. He
is only four years older than I am, and I
am a young woman now, ain't I, Mr. Drake ?
Of course, if I ask you, you couldn't say
I was an old woman ; I know that. But
I really am a young woman. And then

there is Sokeington. I will speak to Sokeington,
Mrs. John Enderb}. Sokeington
is a very good friend of mine ; he must
have a house full at Pentstock. There
are forty-two bedrooms at Pentstock. He
could ask a number of young men down.
My cousin, Lewis Vandercrup, is coming to
England in January. You said in January,
didn't you, Mrs. John Enderby? Dodington
could ask him  I mean Lewis 
 down to Pentstock too."

Vandercrup, Vandercrup ? " murmured
Mr. Drake.

The excellent, little man was sitting, with
his knees very far apart, on a settee just
opposite the fire,  which had caught his
face, as the saying is, and made it even
ruddier than usual.

Vandercrup ? Yes, to be sure; remember
him perfectly. Met him at Venice
in the spring. People said he was one of
your American millionaires, don't you
know ; had got a fabulous sort of a fortune."

I don't know about fabulous," responded
the lady, in her high thin tones. " Fabulous
seems to mean something dreadful ; something

with two heads. Well, Lewis 
has not got two heads, any way.
He is very nice-looking. Some people say
he is rather ordinary; I don't think he is
ordinary, unless it is ordinary to be like
a gentleman. Lewis Vandercrup is just the
most perfect gentleman. Then there is
Charlie Colvin. I don't usually call gentlemen
bv their first names like that. I think
it is bad style to do it ; bad form, you would
say, Mr. Drake.  But Charlie Colvin is a
connection of my husband's. I always call
my cousins by their first names, and my
cousins by marriage too. Well Mrs. John
Enderby, you must ask Charlie Colvin. He
is one of Mrs. Enderby's admirers. Eh?
Well, I am sure he is a great admirer of
yours, Mrs. Enderby."

Jessie," said the Colonel, getting up
from the sofa where he had been sitting, a
little way from his wife ; " can't I take these
teacups for you? "

Oh yes; give me my tea, Jessie," cried
Augusta, cheerily. " I'm as hungry as a
hunter after nine miles in the rain."

Why, have I said anything wrong?"

exclaimed Mrs. Waterfield, looking round
intelligently upon her companions. " My
husband says I run on so. I suppose I do
run on. Do you object to your wife having
admirers, then, Colonel Enderby ? Well,
now, I like admirers. I don't see the use
of a woman being so elegant, and perfectly
lovely every way, as Mrs. Enderby is, if
she mayn't have admirers. Why, what an
awful Blue Beard of a husband you must
be, Colonel Enderby, if you don't like
people to look at your wife. If I had a
wife, I should want everybody to look at
her all day long.  No, I don't take sugar in
my tea, thank you. Till I came to England
I never took tea at all. My mother never
would let me take tea when I was a young
girl. She believed it was bad for the
digestion. Now, I don't believe it is bad
for the digestion, do you, Mrs. Enderby? "

Young men, young men?" said Mr.
Drake, circulating genially meanwhile with
the bread and butter. " No difficulty about
them, upon my word, I'm sure. Well, now,
there am I for one."

Augusta laughed good-humouredly. She

and Mr. Drake were old friends; and,
having a very genuine kindness for each
other at bottom, felt themselves at liberty
to indulge in mild personalities at moments.

Yes, there you are," she said. "But
you see, you can't multiply yourself indefinitely
; and even if you could, I'm not
sure you would satisfy all the aspirations of
all my pretty girls, you know."

Bless me, I'm a very good sort of a
creature. Surely you could not have too
much of me ? ' '

Oh no, certainly I couldn't," responded
Augusta, laughing again.

Jessie meanwhile pushed about the teacups
on the table before her impatiently.
She felt slightly irritable. Mrs. Waterfield
had monopolized the conversation, and Mr.
Drake's pleasantries always bored her. She
had got on a wonderful new tea-gown, with
a long train to it, and the most delightful
trimming of bobs and beads, and loops of
ribbon all down the front, and great frills at
the bottom of it, which had the effect of
making her feet look particularly small 
that was a comfort. But she wanted to

talk seriously with her sister-in-law about
the ball; and she could not get in a word
edgeways. She looked up at her husband
with a charming little demand for pity and
sympathy, shrugged her shoulders, and
sighed in a quite pathetic manner.

Oh, I understand you ; don't spare me,"
Mr. Drake was saying, in answer to some
further speech of Mrs. Jack's. " You mean
I'm old. I am a good deal more than four
years Mrs. Waterfield's senior, anyhow."

Well, I guess you are, Mr. Drake,"
observed that lady, sharply.

I tell you what it is, you know. I lookin
the glass every morning, and say to
myself, ' Drake, my good fellow, you're
getting on ; turn to, and mend your ways.'
And yet, upon my soul," he added, sitting
down again, nursing one knee, and taking
an argumentative tone :  "I don't really feel
it. It's a most singular thing, but I don't
seem to be able to take it in somehow. I
don't feel a day older than I did at twenty.
And I tell you what, you know 7 , it's uncommonly
interesting, but lots of other men
say just the same.  There's Enderby, now,

he's a case in point. You're getting on, you
know, Enderby, and I'll be bound you feel
every bit as young as you did five and
twenty years ago, don't you ? "

Why, I'm sure this must be very
encouraging for the rest of us," remarked
Mrs. Waterfield, parenthetically.

Mr. Drake's speeches were frequently
incoherent, and not generally calculated to
leave an impression of mature wisdom on
the minds of his hearers, who might readily
be led by them to credit the statement, that
this middle-aged gentleman found himself
in very much the same intellectual atmosphere
as that which he had breathed
during his crude and ingenuous adolescence.
Still, there was a practical sagacity about
Edmund Drake that, looking on his round
untroubled countenance, and listening to
his stumbling speech, one might hardly
have given him credit for. As he made his
not over wise appeal to Colonel Enderby,
he observed that Jessie turned upon her
husband a strangely fixed and inquiring
gaze. Quite another woman seemed to
look out of the girl's fresh young face for

the moment,  not a pleasant woman, hard,
clever, cold-hearted, worldly. Mr. Drake
had a quick misgiving ; to himself he repeated
certain old opinions he had formed
on the subject of his friend's marriage.

Fortunately, however, for once in his life,
the Colonel did not happen to be thinking
about his wife. He raised his eyes with an
air of abstraction, and sat slowly pulling at
the ends of his moustache for a second or
two, before answering. Then he said 

Alas ! Drake, you've hit on the wrong-man
this time. I shan't serve you as a
happy example. I don't feel the least as I
did five and twenty years ago, or five
months ago, either, for that matter."

Colonel Enderby's voice had an odd ring
in it, which arrested Augusta's attention.
She looked rather hard at him.

Oh, stuff a' nonsense, Philip ! " she said
in her loud, good-natured way. "I never
saw a man w r ear as well as you do. Poor
Jack, now, does begin to show signs, you
know. I won't enumerate them  it isn't
fair to criticize his weak points behind his
back. But you  nonsense ! "

It seems to me we are having a rather
graveyard sort of conversation," Mrs.
Waterfield said. "I declare what with Mr.
Drake here, and Colonel Enderby there, I
begin to feel quite blue, that I do. Now,
you feel blue too, Mrs. Enderby, don't you ?
If I was you, I wouldn't let my husband
talk in that way. When Ashley says
anything like that, I stop him. I tell him
he makes me feel real bad. Now, Colonel
Enderby, are not you sorry ? You have
made me feel so badly I shall go home
directly. I want you to ring the bell right
away, and order my carriage."

Just at this moment Berrington threw
the drawing-room door wide open.

Mrs. Earrell!" he announced, in his
half aggressive manner. And Cecilia, waterproof
and all, stood revealed in the doorway.


Oh my ! " cried Mrs. Waterfield, involuntarily.


Mrs. Farrell ! dear me!" Augusta exclaimed,
turning round with an air of considerable
surprise, and speaking in tones
that were perfectly audible.

Philip Enclerby rose hastily to his feet 
too hastily, in fact, for he had to wait a
moment before he could follow his w 7 ife
across the room to meet the new-comer.
He had noted a disagreeable tendency in
himself in the last few weeks, which gave
him a great deal of annoyance. A small
matter would cause him to start and
change colour. He had the greatest
difficulty in keeping himself in hand, in
avoiding speaking sharply and angrily, at
times. It seemed to him that all his
nerves had got outside his skin, so to speak.
Jessie jumped up w T with a little cry of
pleasure. She swept across the room in
her long trailing tea-gown, with the most
charming smile of welcome on her pretty
face. Why, she hardly knew, but she
was immensely glad to see Mrs. Farrell
just then.

This is delightful, Cecilia," she said.
I didn't know you were in England.
Have you heard anything of Bertie lately ?
He has left the red villa, and mamma is a
little mysterious about him."

She put up her face, intending to give

Cecilia a kiss in this moment of expansion ;
and then, drawing back suddenly, held her
petticoats carefully away with one hand.

"Ah! you must forgive me, but you are
so very wet. Surely you cannot have
walked out here in this horrible weather? "

Some people certainly seem born to bethe
sport of unkind circumstance. Poor
Mrs. Farrell, her soul purged of all vanity
and self-seeking, had set off on her mission
in the most purely evangelical spirit. Her
imagination had attached itself with clinging
tenacity to this interview with Jessie
Enderby. She had rehearsed the scene
twenty times over in her own mind : but,
unfortunately, Cecilia's mental pictures were
painted in neutral tints ; they were sadly
lacking in detail, in vivacity of action, and
in atmosphere. She had had a vision of
herself,  a sort of embodied providence, 
earnestly exhorting Jessie,  a serious, grey,
and anxious phantom,  to consider the
solemnity of the present condition of her
devoted husband,  who, in his turn, figured
as a vague being, sad and shadowy as any
ghostly hero greeted by Odysseus, in the.

VOL. III. C

dreary kingdom of Hades. When she had
told the poor woman down in the cottage
by the brick-fields, that she was going on to
another house where there was trouble, she
had spoken honestly out of a strong and
simple conviction. Trouble, in her mind, was
the great leveller, merging all differences of
class and surroundings ; bringing human
relations out of the transitory and conventional
on to the common ground of our
common suffering. Her gloomy walk had
increased the exaltation of Cecilia's state
of mind. Her vision of the coming interview
w T , though wanting in colour, was by no
means wanting in strong reality to her.

And now, suddenly, being ushered into
this warm, bright, fragrant room ; seeing
these people with their air of refined wellbeing
and luxury ; hearing Mrs. Waterfield's
shrill chatter, as she stood arranging herself
a little by the fire, and pouring a
broadside of concise statement into Mr.
Drake and Mrs. Jack Enderby,  Cecilia
Farrell suffered a cruel shock and transition
of feeling. "What went she out for
to see ?  Pain, sorrow, the dread of coming

tragedy. While that which she did, in
fact, see seemed to her far more akin to
kings' palaces, and the soft raiment usually
worn therein. Cecilia felt as though she
had fallen from a great height. The whole
world turned mean and common around her.
She became absorbingly conscious of her
own nervousness and agitation, and of the
unsightliness of her present costume. She
felt how ineffectual, incongruous, almost
ridiculous, she must look. She struggled
bravely against her humiliation ; but it was
too strong for her, she sank into a bitter
conviction of her own uselessness and
incapacity. For, alas ! the experience of
Saul, the son of Kish, is too often exactly
reversed. How many a noble soul starts
forth, full of hope, in search of a kingdom :
and, instead of the prophet and the promise
and the oil of anointing, finds nothing, after
all, but those familiar and irritating old
animals  his father's asses ! Such episodes
may be brief in execution; but they are
immensely disconcerting.

Yes, I walked over," she said, humbly,
while the fairy palace of her new idea*

crumbled into ruins within her. " I wanted
very much to see you, Jessie; but I had
some places to call at on the way."

She looked down with an expression at
once distressed and apologetic at her damp
skirts and muddy boots.

"I am so sorry," she went on; "I'm
afraid I'm very dirty."

Mrs. Farrell must take off her cloak,
and you must get it dried for her," said the
Colonel. " If you're kind enough, Mrs. Farrell,
to come out and see my wife in such
weather, I'm sure the least she can do is to
take good care of you when you get here."

Cecilia glanced at the speaker quickly
and gratefully. Then she began fumbling
at the buttons of her cloak. Unhappy
Cecilia ! she was desperately nervous ; and
all her fingers turned into thumbs.

I believe I must ask you to go and
hurry up the carriage, Mr. Drake," Mrs.
Waterfield was, meanwhile, saying. " My
husband says I always stay too late when
I come to see Mrs. Enderby. Well, I daresay
I do. I think Mrs. Enderby just one
of the sw T detest w T omen I know. Don't you

think her awfully sweet, now ? I don't like
using that word awfully ; I don't think it's
ladylike. I suppose I caught it from my
husband. I always have been very quick
about catching things. My mother always
said I had a wonderfully good ear. It is a
great thing to have a good ear, now, isn't
it, Mrs. John Enderby ? "

And so on, and so on. Philip's nerves
were on edge. Between Mrs. Waterfield's
chatter on one side, and Mrs. Farrell's unsuccessful
struggles with her waterproof on
the other, he began to feel the position
intolerable. He even went so far as to
motion Jessie, rather imperatively, to help
her guest off with that odious garment ;
but the young lady merely put up her eyebrows
with a charmingly amused expression,
looked eloquently at Cecilia's moist clothes,
at her own dainty hands, and then back at
her husband again. And Philip was just
debating whether he had not better go
down on his knees before his love of long
ago, and fight hand to hand with those
obstinate buttons himself, when Augusta
Enderby mercifully came to the rescue.

"Here," she cried in her large, capable
manner, Ct let me do it. Your buttons area
size too big for your button-holes, you
know, Mrs. Farrell. All right, though, I'll
manage them. There you are ! " she added,
as she whipped off the offending over-garment.


And there indeed was Cecilia, with the
pure, self-sacrificing soul of a Puritan saint
unseen, and with a long lean person,
adorned about the shoulders, too, with a
not over-fresh red and white woollen crossover,
quite distinctly seen  hitting you in
the face, as you may say, with its lamentable
want of elegance and distinction.

Oh my ! " murmured Mrs. Waterfield
again, under her breath. Then she announced
for the twentieth time that she
must go ; and after an effusive and comprehensive
leave-taking, rustled away  still
chattering  deportment and all.

A few minutes later Mrs. Jack made a
move.

Well, my dear, come over and seeme
as soon as you can," she said, as she
kissed her pretty sister-in-law. " We'll

have a good talk about the ball, and really
settle things. The last week in January
would be best, I think. The hounds meet
at Bassett that week, and there's the
Slowby Hospital ball on the Wednesday,
so we could work it all in nicely. Mind,
I reckon on you, Jessie. You're clever,
you know, and I'm not."

' If you're driving yourself, I advise you
to go the lower way, through Lowcote
Park," observed the Colonel, as he helped
Augusta on with her ulster. " The road up
by Stoney Cross is in an uncommonly bad
state, not fit to take horses over at night."

When Mrs. Jack Enderby, followed by
the two gentlemen, had left the room,
Cecilia felt the hour of her trial had arrived.
Jessie had given her some tea ; but she was
too agitated to drink it. She sat uncomfortably
enough on the settee, nursing her
cup, which made a little slip and rattle
every now and then from the unsteadiness
of her hands.

As to Jessie, her rush of enthusiasm for
Mrs. Farrell had speedily evaporated under
the influences of the melancholy waterproof.

She had found out that Cecilia had been
a long while in England, and could give
her no fresh news of Bertie Ames. Notwithstanding
her delightful tea-gown, the
young lady felt, too, that the last hour had
not been exactly crowned with success.
She was a trifle out of temper; and her
irritation took the form of sprightly malice.

She moved across, heaped a couple more
logs on to the fire, watched the quick leap
of the flame as the flaked edges of the w r good
touched the glowing bed of coal beneath ;
and then, turning upon her guest with a
brilliant smile, observed 

"You said you wanted very much to
see me, Cecilia. Had you anything special
to say, because here is an excellent opportunity.
We are alone; I am attentive."

The girl stood in an easy attitude, looking
admirably pretty, with her head a trifle on
one side, and her eyes fixed on her companion's
face.

Prevarication was not Mrs. Farrell's
strong point. Everything had gone badly
for her, yet she clung with a kind of unfortunate
heroism to truth and duty.

I did want to see you very much,
Jessie," she said, looking up in her tired,
troubled way, and speaking with hesitation.
"I had something I felt I ought to say to
you ; but it is so difficult to know how best
to say it."

A mischievous light came into Jessie's
bright eyes. She had something of a child's
thoughtless pleasure in teasing and confusing
larger, more helpless creatures than
herself.

Begin at the very beginning, dear
Cecilia," she answered softly, " and go
straight on. No doubt, if I attend very
carefully I shall eventually understand, even
though I am rather a stupid person."

I was afraid, from something I had
heard, that you might be anxious and distressed,
Jessie."

There was an appeal in the elder woman's
manner ; dumbly she implored the girl not
to laugh at her.

And I fancied you might not quite know
what to do, being here without Mrs. ,
or any old friend to speak to. I
thought, perhaps, you would be glad to talk

to a woman you knew  somebody whom
you had known a long while. It is easier
to say things to an old acquaintance. I
don't want to put myself forward," she
added hastily; "I only wanted you to
make use of me, if there was nobody better."
During the above speech a succession
of different expressions crossed Jessie Enderby's
face. The merriment passed away ;
for a moment that painful look of unreasonable
terror stared out of it. Then the girl
seemed to arrive at a firm determination ;
she became calm, almost smiling again.

Mrs. Farrell was not in a condition to
register, much less to interpret, the meaning
of these rapid changes. She had set
down her tea untasted, and leant forward,
full of confused longing and sympathy.

I do not pretend to understand exactly
what you mean, Cecilia," said the girl, looking
away into the fire, while she fingered
the elaborate trimming on the front of her
gown; " though I do not doubt that your
intentions are full of kindness. If you have
heard any rumours to the effect that I am
not happy, they are false. I am not distressed,

I am not at all anxious. "Why
should I be ? My life is generally delightful.
Philip is charming to me. W 7 e are
all a little bored at times, of course ; and
to be bored is a great evil. But now that
Philip has given up hunting I am rarely
bored, because I am rarely alone."

"But  but, Jessie," cried Cecilia, speaking
urgently  " oh, please don't be angry
with me are you sure you are not deceiving
yourself, and overlooking something
? It's no business of mine, I know ;
but you are so young, of course you can't
be expected to understand the importance
of those little indications. You see, you.
can't have much experience. Of course I
don't blame you for an instant ; I only want
to save you from regret when it may be too
late. You spoke of Colonel Enderby just
now. You say he has given up hunting,
and people say he is not looking well.
Don't you think "

But there Mrs. Farrell stopped; the
blood rushed into her thin cheeks. For
the life of her she could get no further.

Jessie's lips parted, but it was hardly ina

smile this time. The two rows of small
white teeth were set very firmly together.
She drew herself back a little, like some
beautiful, lithe, feline thing, crouching ready
to spring.

ll Mori Dieu Cecilia, you are mysterious,"
she said. " Fortunately, my nerves are
good, or your conversation might appear
absolutely alarming. "

Oh, Jessie, Jessie ! " cried. Mrs. Farrell.

She knelt down on the floor before the
girl, and put out her hands in an agony
of entreaty.

u Don't be hard with me ; don't turn
away, don't repulse me. I wouldn't trouble
you but that I care so much about your
happiness, and  and your husband's. He
is ill. Do listen, dear ; try to be brave
and face it. I would do anything in the
world to help you, only "

But Jessie interrupted her.

Go away," she burst out fiercely, " go
away, Cecilia Farrell. What right have
you to come here and disturb and frighten
me with all sorts of publishing rumours and
gossip ? Get up off the floor. I do not

want you. Why do you come to me, with
that horrible, woollen shawl too, and talk
to me, and suggest things, and make me
uneasy, and cause me to be violent  which
I hate being  and rude and uncourteous,
as I am now ? I will not know, or hear, or
see. I will not know, I tell you. It is allan
invention, a wretched lie, to poison my
happiness. You are cruel ; you are envious.
Get away from me."

Meantime, a passage of arms of a very
different character had been taking place
between Mrs. Jack Enderby and Edmund
Drake in the front hall.

You can't let her walk back to Telling
you know, in this weather," Augusta
had said, laughing. "If there's a grain of
proper feeling left in you, you'll drive her
home in that celebrated dogcart."

Proper ! proper's just the wrong word,"
replied Mr. Drake, fidgeting about prodigiously.
"Why, God bless me! think of
the talk  dogcart, dusk, unknown lady, and
your humble servant. Impossible, you
know ; there's an end of my reputation."

I didn't know you had any left by this.

time. If you have, of course, that makes a
difference."

Didn't know I'd any left, eh?" Mr.
Drake rubbed his hands ; he was immensely
delighted. " Heard anything particular
about me, then, just lately? "

u Oh, something abominable  scandalous.
Be ally, you know, I hardly like to repeat
it."

Mrs. Jack tugged at the back seams
of her ulster to get it into place, and
laughed again good-humouredly.

u Save poor Cecilia Farrell the walk
back to Tulling worth, and I'll get over my
modesty and tell you."

The Colonel stood at the hall door, looking
out into the drizzling murky evening. The
lamps of Mrs. Jack Enderby's carriage
showed w T with a blurred, red glare through
heavy air, as the coachman walked the
horses slowly up and down the carriage
sweep. The moisture dripped with a dull
sound from the near trees and over-hanging
woodwork of the gables.

Philip was sad and very tired  worn with
strain of suffering and of constant watchfulness

; worn with that weary daily struggle
to look just as usual, be cheerful, and keep
up appearances ; worn with fear of his wife's
detection ; wtutl with yearning that she
might come to him and lay her fair head
on his breast, and tell him that she knew
all, and still loved him  that, ill or well, it
should make no difference. Looking out
into the mist and darkness, the strain
seemed a little more than he could bear.
The thought crossed his mind  how long
would it all go on ? Should he be able to
stand it ? But he drove the thought away
from him strongly, imperatively, with a movement
of pride and self contempt. The night,
it . seemed, gave evil counsel. He turned
back into the hall again, where Augusta
and Drake were still chaffing each other.

"You gave thirty pounds to that tiresome
Slowby hospital, over and above your subscription,
when their funds were low at
Michaelmas," said the lady. " Isn't that
enough to make half the county cut you ?
Think how mean you've made all the rest
of us look ! Abominable ! "

(i Oh ! confound it, Mrs. Enderby ! " cried

the worthy little man, with an air of deep
disgust, " that's all, is it ? Oh ! Now, I tell
you what ; I'll make a bargain with you.
I'll drive Mrs. Farrell home to-night if you'll
ask her to your ball in January. It would
be a first-rate thing to do. Looks as if she
wanted a shaking up, poor thing, somehow."

Very well, anything you like. I really
must go. She'll refuse, though, so I shall
have much the best of the bargain. There,
stop the carriage, please, Philip ; I'm awfully
late. And bring Jessie over as soon as
you can ; we're always delighted to see
her. I believe she grows prettier every day.
Good-bye, Mr. Drake. Mind you don't back
out of your engagement. Yes, all right ; I
am well tucked up, thanks."

Now, Enderby," cried Mr. Drake,
fussing back into the hall again, when Mrs.
Jack was fairly off, " I'm regularly in for it,
you see. I've got to make proposals to the
widow. Do you think she'd be willing to
move soon ? I've got a man coming to
dinner, so I must trot. Could you go and
sound her, do you think ? ' '

When Colonel Enderby went back into

the drawing-room, he perceived immediately
that something had gone wrong.
Jessie came swiftly up to him, and took hold
of his arm.

Did you send her ? " she demanded,
pointing to Mrs. Farrell, who stood, a limp
dejected figure, on the other side of the
room. " Did you know she was coming
here to terrify me ? ' '

Jessie, dear child, he quiet," he
answered, in a low voice. "I've sent
nobody to you. I don't even know what
you are talking about."

The tone of Philip's voice and his look,,
as he bent down over the girl and spoke
to her, were just the last straw to Cecilia
Farrell. She had done no good ; it was
all a' miserable failure. The very completeness
of her defeat, the utter impossibility
of explaining and putting herself
in the right, gave her the dignity of
desperation. She could not trust herself to
look again at Philip Enderby, as she moved
across towards the door.

I will go," she said quietly ; "I am very
much pained at what has occurred. I "

VOL. III. 1)

But the Colonel interrupted her ; he was
thankful to have something to speak about.

My friend Drake is just going to drive
back to Tuning worth," he said civilly to
Mrs. Farrell, and keeping his hand steadily
on his wife's shoulder, meanwhile. " He
deputed me to ask if you would do him the
honour of driving back with him. It's a
wretched night, and will be very dark soon.
I don't think you ought to walk."

Cecilia hesitated. She w r as very unhappy
; she would have been glad to be
alone ; but she did not want to appear
unreasonable, or in any way offended.

"It is very kind of Mr. Drake," she replied
; and her voice was a little shaky.

Don't ask me any questions, Philip,"
said Jessie, when she found herself alone
with, her husband, some few minutes later.
"I don't want to talk about it. It is not
true. Let us forget all about it."

She came and nestled up against him,
and drew his arm round her waist.

Do you love me as much as ever,
Philip?" she asked.

Colonel Enderby paused for a just

appreciable space of time before answering.
Then he bowed his head solemnly, as a man
who worships.

Yes, my wife," he said, "I love you
just as well as ever."

Jessie was silent for a minute or two. As
she moved away she said : 

I don't much like Mrs. Waterfield ; I
shall not ask her here again, I think."

Philip's face brightened.

No, I would just as soon you didn't,"
he returned. " I don't very much fancy
her either, to tell the truth."

FLESH OE Spirit?

The summer and autumn following her stepdaughter's
wedding were to Mrs. 
a period of deep and searching
experience. She had made a return upon
herself; and that return was not made
without considerable pain and mortification.
She examined herself and took heed to her
ways. The examination revealed many facts
that were far from flattering to her self-love
; the heeding of her ways showed those
same ways to be very far from paths of
pleasantness and peace. Still in face of
the over-mastering necessity felt by most
persons to stand well with themselves, it
was not a little to Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay's
credit that she should so honestly acknowledge
her own shortcomings. To be
ashamed is to be capable of amendment :

and to be capable of amendment is perhaps
the highest good to which any one of us
can reasonably aspire.

Nevertheless, a sense of shame, though
most salutary, no doubt, to the soul, is
hardly an agreeable or inspiriting daily
companion. Eleanor was troubled in many
different directions. She had come to
realize, w r with morbid intensity, her responsibility
toward Philip Enderby. She exaggerated
her own share in his marriage, 
ignoring the fact that he, after all, was quite
as ready to make his proposal as she was
to have him make it. She looked with
feverish anxiety for the English post ; and
managed to read between the lines, to a
rather superfluous extent, whenever she
received a letter either from Jessie or the
Colonel. The former hardly possessed the
pen of a ready writer. Her communications
were brief, concise, dealing largely in
fact and sparingly in emotion. Jessie wrote
gaily enough ; but her stepmother required
more than mere gaiety. She demanded, as
usual, assurances and assertions : they did
not seem to her to come. Colonel Enderby,

when he referred to his wife, did so in terms
altogether worthy of a true and ardent
lover ; yet, somehow, Eleanor was not
wholly satisfied. On the other hand, let
it be granted that hers was a nature very
prone to believe in the purifying efficacy of
self-torture.

Mr. Ames wrote too. His letters arrived
with a regularity and exactitude too careful
quite to please the recipient of them. They
were amusing and affectionate letters ; but
they were wanting in what may be called
the note of intimacy. They were the letters
of a man who is sensible of an obligation,
and who strives to fulfil it in the very best
manner : women have lynx eyes for these
subtleties.

Bertie was travelling in the East, in
company with two agreeable young French
gentlemen of his acquaintance. They
were making researches. He wrote quite
learnedly, yet not without refreshing
touches of his habitual cynicism  of ruined
temples, stupendous tombs, of deserts, and
camels, and Arab sheiks, and the last
iniquity of his dragoman. His route was

uncertain, he said; it was difficult to say
exactly when or w r here letters would find
him. Sometimes his cousin tore up these
sparkling epistles in a passion of impatience ;
sometimes she came very near shedding
tears over them. Poor creature ! one way
and another she was certainly a good deal
tried just now. Her life seemed to her
wretchedly purposeless, barren, and sterile.

Miss Keat had returned. But both that
lady's gentle tentative watchfulness and
Parker's grim tenderness harassed Mrs.
Pierce-Dawnay sadly. A household composed
exclusively of women is always liable
to take a turn in the eccentric and hysterical
direction. Notwithstanding their true
regard for one another, all three women
grew  it must be owned  uncommonly
touchy ; each one of the trio being prepared
to affirm that she alone was keeping her
head, while the others were exhibiting unmistakable
signs of incipient insanity.

About the end of August, Miss Keat,
however, came involuntarily but effectively
to the rescue. Eleanor had stoutly refused
to go away. At moments she hated the

red villa ; yet she had a morbid dread of
leaving it and venturing into the outer
world again. The summer was hot ; the
dust and glare from the highroad and the
sea almost blinding. As one cloudless day
followed another, poor little Miss Keat
began to give out. She missed Jessie's
joyous presence ; she missed the gentle
excitement, necessarily produced in an
innocent and virginal heart, by the daily
sight of a good-looking young man with
that most attractive of all attributes  a
history. Miss Keat began to melt both
mentally and physically. Her round, little
figure fell away till the fronts of her mild
grey cotton and alpaca dresses became
quite loose and baggy ; her pale blue eyes
grew daily more vague and watery.
Between heat, and worry, and depression
she was on the verge of a serious breakdown.
Suddenly Eleanor discovered all
this ; called herself a monster of selfishness
and ingratitude : and before her companion
had time to draw a breath or
utter a feeble protest against giving everybody
so much trouble, the Villa Mortelli

was left, with locked doors and closed
shutters, in the care of the peasant overseer,
and she herself w T as being petted back
into good spirits and plumpness among the
cool breezes and deep green valleys of
Savoy.

Winter saw the household re-established
in its old quarters. And to her old troubles
  which, by the way, assailed her pretty
shrewdly when she resumed her solitary
mode of existence  Eleanor had contrived
to add a new one, or, to speak more
accurately, to revive a past one, which,
first the society of her republican friends,
and then Mr. Ames' advent, had put to
flight some years previously. She plunged
into religious polemics ; once more she
became anxious about the welfare of her soul.

But this time  thanks to the conversations
of a cultivated and agreeable Catholic
priest, whom she happened to meet during
her sojourn in the mountains  her aspirations
no longer turned in the direction
of ultra-Protestantism ; but in that of the
Roman Communion. The gentleman in
question  himself an Oratorian  talked to

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay with admirable tact,
charming adaptability, and with that underlying
suggestion of immutable personal
conviction which is so captivating to an
enthusiastic woman. Catholicism is not
seen in a very refined or spiritual form in
Italy. England, unquestionably, in the
present day, has the privilege of producing
the most exquisite flower of that profoundly
agitating and alluring system.

Eleanor was unhappy; she was in need
of advice ; she yearned  as she had frequently
done before  after a distinct vocation.
A light seemed to break upon her
clouded spirit. She confessed to this
stranger things which she would have found
it impossible to tell her oldest friend. Perhaps
she has never quite forgotten the
words which closed her last interview with
him, out on the short-cropped turf of the
mountain side, with the solemnity of the
everlasting hills brooding above her and the
murmur of the streams in her ears.

The Church," he said, "has infinite
consolations. You have only to claim
them. The doors of her holy places stand

ever open ; her hands are ever outstretched,
in blessing, to draw souls to her. She
alone has dared to fulfil the whole of the
divine injunction, adding the wisdom of
the serpent to the mildness of the dove.
She alone has had the glorious audacity
to look at human nature as it really is ; not
turning away her eyes from what is vile,
and foul, and shameful in it, either in outraged
pride or profitless despair. She can
dare to probe every wound and search deep
into the secret places of man's sin-corrupted
heart, because she knows that a miraculous
power of healing is with her still, and that
she has hope even for the most degraded
and fallen.  Some persons venture to smile
at the Church as archaic, as the perverse
preserver of out-worn superstitions. In
truth, she, of all religious systems, is the
only living and progressive one. While
keeping firm hold on the wdsdoin and
beauty of the Past, she is willing to use
the w r wisdom and beauty of the Present.
She treats the diseases of the soul as
modern science treats those of the body;
she is always experimenting, acquiring new

facts, recognizing fresh manifestations of
eternal law.  Come to her, and she will
give you Best  the only rest possible amid
the intricate desires, the anarchic and
conflicting passions of modern life. She
offers you the serene repose of faith and
of obedience ; she saves you from yourself;
she gives you a rule of life consecrated
by the acceptance of saints and martyrs ;
she gives you a Law as well as a Gospel.
Believe me, there can be no peace, here or
hereafter, for those who will not accept the
first as well as the last of those two things."
It followed that Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay went
back to the little red villa with the inspiring
sense of a great possibility hanging over
her. She was deeply stirred. How much
the charm of her new teacher's voice and
manner,  his delightful withdrawal from
the world, and lively knowledge of it  went
for in her growing convictions, I cannot
pretend to pronounce. Bearing in mind
the tendencies of the lady's nature, and the
present unsatisfied state of her affections, I
cannot but imagine that they certainly went
for a good deal.

Here I feel that some idealist  always
supposing that an idealist should condescend
to peruse these humble pages 
may cry out rather angrily,  is there no
influence, then, which one human being
exercises over another, that is wholly pure,
unalloyed by any question of sex, above
all reproach of the material sensuous
element ? That question is a painful
and risky one to answer. Yet I am afraid
the present writer must honestly confess
that for his part he has never yet had
the happiness of witnessing the operation
of such an influence. He hastens to add 
in self-defence  that if at any future time
he should do so, it will give him the very
highest satisfaction to chronicle it.

Eleanor anyhow, took her spiritual perturbations
quite seriously. She spent the
early winter months tossed on a sea of
doubt and indecision. It was not wholly
disagreeable to her, perhaps ; for this condition
of mental agitation made her extremely
interesting to herself : and as long
as one is interesting to one's self life
cannot be said to be unendurable.

The real victim of the situation was Miss
Keat. She was constantly required to read
aloud lives of the saints, histories of the
Church, and treatises sundry and manifold
of a ferociously dogmatic and doctrinal
order. The good little woman, being herself
a staunch Anglican of what may be
described as the Monthly Packet school,
was lamentably put about by this outbreak
of controversy on the part of her patroness.
She had a tenderness for the early British
Church versus Augustine ; and had been
wont to speak, with commendable asperity,
of the unwarrantable pretensions of the
Bishop of Rome. Now all the foundations
of her position seemed in danger of being
rent asunder. The poor dear British Church
daily threatened to assume a wholly vague,
mythical character, while Augustine appeared
painfully likely to get it all his own
way, after all : and Miss Keat caught herself,
more than once, in the act of substituting
the subversive expression His Holiness for
her former contemptuous and comfortably
insular appellation.

By the end of December, Eleanor was

VOL. III. E

in a state of mind in which one shove from
a strong hand would have settled the matter
for good and all. She was constant in her
attendance at the large, gaudily decorated
church down at Terzia ; she read and meditated
regularly ; she talked and thought of
little besides this one subject  and undeniably
it is a subject on which there is a
vast amount to be thought and said.

Miss Keat mourned alone up in her large,
bare bed-chamber over the endangered
existence of moderate Anglicanism and the
Church of her fathers. Parker grew daily
more grey and angular. Personally she
failed to see what anybody was likely to
gain by an exchange of religious systems.

"It's all very well to call yourself something
different," she said; "but, there, don't
tell me  you ain't a bit different really.
It's just the same as a woman changing
her name in marriage  she fancies she's
going to slip out of all her old plagues ;
but she finds out she is the same woman,
after all, though I'll be bound she washes
she wasn't, often enough. Now, I never
held very much with Mr. Ames," she

added, " but I can't say but what I should
be glad to see him if he came back just
now."

Miss Keat, to whom the above observations
were addressed, gave no direct
answer. Her moist, blue eyes were firmly
fixed upon a large grease spot which sadly
disfigured the front of her grey alpaca.

Parker sniffed. There was a fluidity, so
to speak, about Miss Keat which made her
appear a very feeble and trivial affair at
times to the strong-minded waiting-woman.

By the beginning of the new year Eleanor
believed she had arrived at an irrevocable
decision. She wrote a long and expansive
letter to her acquaintance of the summer,
whose arguments and sympathy had so
deeply affected her. Nor did Eleanor contemplate
taking half measures. The magical
attraction of the strictly religious life dazzled
her imagination. She longed, by one definite
act, to cut short both her difficulties of
faith and of the affections. She rehearsed
to herself her parting letters to Bertie
Ames and to the Enderbys. To Bertie it
would be a tremendous slap in the face,



*%   ItMOlt

which she took a bitter pride in the thought
of administering. Colonel Enderby, she
felt, would probably remonstrate, and be
extremely angry. Englishmen of his type
were usually woefully prejudiced in such
matters. But she believed, with all the
turbulent ardour of her generous nature,
that at length she had found rest unto
her soul. She smiled at opposition, and
was disposed to wave the martyr's palm 
before she had gained it too  in a slightly
aggressive manner.

She made an official announcement of
her plans, one particularly cold and dreary
morning, to Parker. Eleanor scorned
evasion. She informed her faithful servant
that she had arranged to go shortly to
England; and put herself in direct communication
with the Superior of a Religious
House there, with a view to becoming
eventually a member of the community'.

I've been expecting something of this
sort for a long time," Parker replied, with
rather irritating stoicism. " Of course you
can do as you like, ma'am ; there's nobody
I know of to prevent you."

She then returned quietly to the examination
of the pile of clean house-linen she
carried over her arm.

"I was going to ask you to get some
new sets of chamber towels," she added;
these are wearing very thin in places.
But, of course, if you're going out of housekeeping
they won't be wanted."

This innocent remark had somewhat the
effect of a sadden dash of cold water in
Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay's face.

"You don't take it seriously, Parker,"
she cried. "You don't really believe in it."

"Well, there's some things you do believe
in more after they've happened."

Parker gave the linen a shake to make
it lie flat on her arm. Eleanor felt extremely
angry. She gathered the rich,
heavy, fur-trimmed cloak she was wearing
the passages and stair-ways of the little,
red villa were dreadfully cold  close about
her handsome bust and shoulders, and swept
stormily away downstairs.

In consequence, perhaps, of the unedifying
episode above recounted, Miss Keat
was kept particularly hard at work on the

lives of the saints and church, history during
the following afternoon. It was an odious
day. One of those days, in fact, in which
beautiful, smiling Italy gives way to the
vilest temper, and becomes a perfect virago.
The harsh wind rushed round the corners
of the house, rattling the wooden shutters
backwards and forwards between the
plastered wall and then iron fastenings,
and whistling in every crevice of the ill-fitting
woodwork. Sharp showers of snow
and sleet fell at intervals, blotting out the
town below, and the long line of surge on
the beach ; and leaving, when they had
passed, a starved and dreary world shuddering
beneath a hard grey sky.

Eleanor, with her books and papers, her
companion, and her smouldering fire of
resentment against Parker  who had refused
to " take her seriously "  was sitting in the
small drawing-room in which she had had
her memorable conversation with Colonel
Enderby the day after his arrival in the
spring. The aspect of the room was depressing.
The spindle-legged white-angola
chairs, the high bare walls, the pale

frescoed ceiling, and the sun-blanched
window curtains  swaying in the draughts
that made their way in freely at the
hinges and catches of the large casements
produced a sufficiently cheerless and even
poverty-strike interior. Those miserable ,
little Italian billets of wood, pile them
together as you may upon the hearth, seem
powerless to dispel the deathly chill that
lingers about these vaulted chambers and
marble floors from November till April.

Eleanor drew her soft fur cloak closer
about her and shivered. She was bound
to disregard temporal comforts, to cultivate
a severe ascetic habit of mind ; meanwhile
she disliked this bleak weather quite tremendously,
and had a frivolous disposition
to grumble aloud over the draughts and
the moaning wind.

Ce Sequins, clout nous factions plus
haut le tranquille courage" read Miss Keat ?
carefully minding both her pronunciation
and her commas, " et la fervent e piece, avail
etc prevent "

"Forgive my interrupting you," said
Eleanor ; " but don't you think if the screen

was pulled a little more this way  no, like
that I mean, to the right  we should be
warmer ? There is a simply polar blast
coming in at that window. Yes, thanks ;
that really is better. And Sequins, don't
trouble to go back, pray. I remember about
his piety and courage."

Miss Keat sat down again by the small
table loaded with serious-looking volumes.
Her gentle and modest spirit, and her
dependent position, made these same saintly
lives very attractive to her. The calm,
delicate, yet austere pages of Montalembert
were more sympathetic to Miss Keat than
she was quite willing to allow.

Oh yes," she went on : " avait ete
prevent que les abords de V impenetrable
foret ou il allait adventurer talent occupies
par des bandes d' assassins "

Surely there is some one at the front
door! " exclaimed Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay.

Notwithstanding her magnificent projects
and finely religious moods and fancies, this
lady was at bottom, like all true women,
essentially concrete and personal. The
early saint, with his courage and bands

of assassins was undoubtedly deeply important.
She had a perfectly sincere belief
that his life had a subtle and profound, if
slightly obscure, bearing upon her own
spiritual needs and history. And yet, alas
for human weakness ! somebody at the front
door was certainly more immediately interesting.
She had the grace, however,
to make an attempt at concealing an open
acknowledgment of this pitiful fact both
from herself and Miss Keat, and added 

Surely no one in their senses would
dream of coming here to-day ! It really
would be most annoying. When we are
settled down at work like this, I hate being
interrupted."

des bandes d' assassins, que Von

qualified mime d'antliropopliages. c Wim-
jporte avait il ripon a celui de ces
procures qui "

There is some one coming upstairs,"
said Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay.

She let the needle-work she held in her
hands slip on to the ground at her side.
Her mouth was slightly open ; she sat bolt
upright, listening intently.

"It is probably Marie going to fasten
the drawing-room shutters," Miss Keat
observed, in a tone of mild reproach. Then
she went on reading again : " celui de ces.
procures qui se croyait le proprietary de
cette region, et qui lui donna ces 
i montre-moi settlement le
chemin pott?" y ar river ' "

Miss Keat, you must stop ; pray stop ! '
cried Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay.

She had turned very pale. She stood up,
Her handsome dark eyes had a wild, eager
light in them, and the fur-lined cloak she
still wore fell back from her shoulders ina
royal sort of fashion.

Good little Miss Keat looked up in innocent
bewilderment, troubled with uncomfortable
visions of the possible arrival in
bodily form of the afore-mentioned anthropophagi
on the landing without.

As the door opened, Eleanor gave a low,
exulting laugh.

"Yes, I knew it  I knew it," she said
under her breath. Then her expression
grew tense and defiant again.

Whatever strictures we may r be tempted

to make upon his conduct in some matters,
it is quite undeniable that Mr. Bertie Ames
possessed a fund of the most admirable
composure. He dawdled into the small
drawing-room of the Villa Mortelli, after
some nine months' absence in far distant
lands, on that bitter blowing January day,
with the air of a man who has, at most,
been away for half an hour.

"Ah!" he murmured, in his rich sweet
tones; " you really contrive to be moderately
warm in here. What a mercy ! The weather
outside is a scandal. It is an absolute outrage.
"

You have come back," said Eleanor,
hoarsely.

She did not offer to go forward and greet
him, but stood quite still in the same rigid
attitude.

"Yes, I believe so," he replied, smiling
at her mildly. " Surely it is a very reasonable
thing to do ? It is quite a long time,
when one comes to think of it, since I have
had the pleasure of seeing you, dear cousin
Nell, and Miss Keat."

Bertie Ames bowed pleasantly to the

latter lady as he finished his speech. Miss
Keat bridled perceptibly.

Oh, Mr. Ames ! " she said.

I was going to ask you to indulge fine,"
he continued, " to do me a favour, a quite
prodigious favour, Miss Keat. I am here 
like this  in the clothes I stand up in.
Would you see Antonio for me, and arrange
about his going down as soon as possible,
and getting my luggage, which is cooling
itself at Terzia railway station ? It would
be a real act of charity on your part, Miss
Keat  a laying up of imperishable treasure
against the future."

Oh, Mr. Ames ! " said that lady again,
slightly shocked.

Eleanor sat down again in the corner
of the sofa, within the screen. Great
gusts of wind rushed round the house,
and banged and rattled the shutters,
while the sleet hissed against the glass
of the windows. But the storm which
raged in the beautiful woman's spirit was
of even fiercer quality. She adored this
man ; and yet she almost loathed him, as he
stood quietly warming his hands at the fire.

He was so insultingly calm and suave, so
delicately indifferent in manner. Already
she was sensible of the tremendous power
he exercised over her.

There were a few minutes of silence after
Miss Keat left the room, then Eleanor
spoke.

"Why have you come back, Bertie?"
she demanded.

I am afraid I startled you, Eleanor," he
said, looking round at her, and still stretching
his brown, well-shaped hands towards
the fire. "It was stupid of me  but  well
I was, honestly, in a hurry  in a hurry to
see you."

Charming ! " she replied, with an effort.
The statement actually seems to have a
faint aroma of compliment about it."

Bertie Ames came across from the fireplace
and sat down at the other end of the
wide sofa. Eleanor pushed her full skirts
aside instinctively. She was on the defensive.
She wanted to maintain the farthest
possible limit of distance between herself
and her companion.

"Dear cousin Nell," he said, looking at

her with a certain steadiness of gaze, " do
not try to be unfriendly or ungracious.
Let us be natural. I have come here
neither out of impertinence nor frivolity 
just to pass the time. I want to consult
you. Keally, for once in my life, I have got
something which appears to me important
to say."

Bertie paused. Notwithstanding the
directness of his gaze, there was a trace
of hesitancy in his manner ; but Mrs.
Pierce-Dawnay made no effort to help him
out. All her energies were concentrated
upon the one desire to withstand his
influence.

Eleanor," he went on, "have you heard
anything particular about the Enderbys
lately?"

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay tossed back her head
impatiently.

"Happy are the people who have no
history ! " she said, almost contemptuously.
There is nothing particular to hear; it is
the old story. Jessie amuses herself, and
Colonel Enderby adores her."

That is nothing new, certainly," he

answered. " But does she adore Colonel
Enderby in return ? "

Do you wish her to ? " inquired Eleanor.
I congratulate you. Decidedly your
recent travels have had a highly beneficial
effect upon your rind."

Mr. Ames smiled blandly.

All things are possible, Nell. And
though change of scene is so universally
advocated for the cure of mental depression
that one naturally has but small faith in it,
it may really be efficacious now and again.
But, seriously, to return to the matter in
hand. I received a most singular letter
from Cecilia Farrell the other day, forwarded
b} my banker in Milan. Cecilia's
epistolatory style is slightly confusing ; it is
vague in matters of punctuation, it wants
lucidity, it does not exactly possess w T hat
one would call literary merit. Still, I made
out something from it ; quite enough to be
disturbing. She hints at dark mysteries
and dire secrets regarding the Colonel.
Don't be alarmed ; not moral lapses of any
kind. He remains the original good boy,
I assure you. But I really am afraid his

goodness is a trifle excessive, just now, and
treads hard on the heels of folly. As far as
I can discover, the position is really an
uncomfortable one. He is dangerously ill,
and won't tell Jessie or take any care of
himself for fear    "

Bertie looked away, and raised his eyebrows.


"Well, we both know Jessie," he added
quietly. " Jessie is a great many delightful
things ; but she is not exactly the woman
one would choose to be nursed by."

Eleanor listened with deepening interest.
She began to forget herself, while all her
old vague fears arose again for Philip
Enderby. She threw the fur cloak back
off her shoulders, and looked her companion
frankly and earnestly in the face, as
she said 

Colonel Enderby did me a great kindness.
He has behaved very nobly by me.
If this is true, I must interfere. I must
try to help him ; I must do something."

The young man shrugged his shoulders.

"Ah! but there is just the difficult*.
Colonel Enderby is as proud as Lucifer ;

your good people are always the impossible
ones to manage. Cecilia only knows all
this through an indiscretion on the part of
his doctor. The doctor and Cecilia, it maybe
noted in passing, seem on wonderfully
friendly terms.  We all know, let alone
Cecilia's personal charms, how irresistibly
impelled any man would be to covet my
aunt Mrs. Murray in the capacity of a
mother-in-law. Well, Cecilia seems to
have clone her best to intervene for the
Colonel's sake  poor dear Cecilia ! But her

intervention was a little How can I put

it gracefully ? It proved abortive, any way.
Now she writes to me ; she says I have influence
with Jessie, she implores me to use
it. It struck me as a little awkward, Cousin
Nell, and I came here to consult you."

Eleanor sat upright and silent. The
finer and the baser instincts of her nature
wrestled together, turbulently.

We must think it over carefully," said
Mr. Ames.

"Yes," she responded coldly, "we must
think it over."

Bertie Ames rose, walked away to Miss

VOL. III. F

Keat's little table, and turned over the
books that lay on it, reading their titles ina
pointless sort of way. For once he
seemed embarrassed and not quite certain
how best to conduct himself.

Is that ugly little abomination Malvolio
all right ? " he asked presently.

u I believe so," answered Mrs. Pierced
awn ay.

Since Jessie's wedding day the monkey
had been anything but a favourite with
her ; and she had banished him sternly to
the lower regions of the red villa.

You propose remaining here to-night, I
suppose ? " she added, after a pause.

The situation was not an easy one to
sustain. It weighed heavily upon her. She
felt she could hardly stay in the room with
her cousin without the conversation going
farther ; and it could hardly fail, in going
farther, to become dangerous. She gathered
up her work, that had lain neglected on the
iioor for the last quarter of an hour, got up,
and prepared to leave the room.

I must go and speak to Parker about
preparing your room," she said.

Bertie Ames dropped the heavy book lie
was examining on to the table ; it slipped
and fell to the ground with a bang. He did
not stop to pick it up ; but came quickly
across to her.

Wait one minute, please, Eleanor," he
said. u I have only half done my story."

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay sank back on to the
sofa again, and looked up at the young
man, with his handsome face and neat
pointed beard, as he stood before her.
Exactly what it was in his appearance that
revealed the fact to her she would have
been quite unable to say, but Eleanor had
a rapid perception that some extraordinary
change had come over him.

What is it, Bertie ? " she cried, in sudden
agitation; " what is it? For God's sake,
tell me."

The Countess Tolomei is dead," he
answered.

Then Bertie Ames' long-sustained composure
gave way utterly and entirely. The
wild, hot-blooded, southern nature burst out
and overflowed in him. He flung himself
down on the sofa.

I am free," lie cried, " I am free. The
chain is broken at last. I belong to
myself. I am my own master. It has
been damnable ! Like a madman I loved
her years ago ; like a madman, nay, like a
very devil, I have rebelled and hated, and
cried out and agonized after freedom. And
now it is all over. The past is wiped out.
It has come, this thing I so wildly implored
to have, and  silly fool that I am  I
shrink before it. It is so new and strange.
I am fairly frightened."

He covered his face with his hands, threw
himself forward till his head rested right
down on his cousin's knees, and broke into
an absolute passion of weeping.

As to Eleanor, she was shaken to the
very foundations of her being. There was
a fascination, a delight, in the position that
was terrible, blinding. Her whole heart
melted in fierce joy. Yet she struggled
generously not to give way, not to take
advantage of the man's overmastering
emotion, though each of his sobs as he
lay there sent a thrill of delicious anguish
right through her. Eleanor sat up tall and

still, with the folds of her thick cloak
falling about her. She laid one fine white
hand on the varnished, gilded woodwork
of the back of the sofa ; and let the other
hang down idly at her side. With no:
much as a finger would she touch him.
She would be quite quiet and passive.
Come what might, Bertie should never L
to regret that he had so lost himself, and
so trusted her.

But a woman is too heavily handicapped.
The body gives wa; n while the will

idv and active. The youn man's
passion did not soon wear itself out, and
the strain of it was too great for Mrs.
Pierce-Dawnay. Her sight became blurred
and dim, a sickening languor crept over
her; and when Bertie, recovering himself
at last, looked up with a keen of

shame and self-recollection, she lav back,
pale and li: against the great, faded

lions, in a dead fain:.

Mr. Ames was a first-rate nm
already been mentioned. He chafed Lis
cousin's hands, found her salts and eau-cologne
 and, all the while, he was in a

turmoil of thought, of doubt and perception,
and of fateful decision. This woman loved
him. In person she was very attractive ; he
was sincerely attached to her. There was
nothing very fresh about it all, perhaps ;
but, then, we can't have everything, and
Bertie Ames at four and thirty was a bit
of a philosopher. It is not a thing to be
lightly treated after all, the passionate
love of a beautiful and noble-hearted woman,
who knows the worst as well as the best of
you. Eleanor was past her first youth ;
but, then, so was Bertie himself, for that
matter. He was undeniably conscious of
a sharp pang when he thought of Jessie.
Oh that this had only occurred a year
sooner ! Yet Bertie  looking down at thew
r lite face of the woman before him,
as she slowly opened her luminous eyes,
and came back once more to the normal
and familiar out of that strange interval of
unconsciousness  had the grace to know
that, in receiving the acknowledgment of
her affection, he was receiving very much
more than, in strict justice, was by any
means his due.

Cousin Nell," lie said, sitting down by
her again, and taking her hand, " is it
possible that you care for me a little ? "

Eleanor was very weak ; she recognized,
too, the absolute futility of any further
attempt at concealment. The expression
of her delicately shaped mouth was sad,
but it was wholly sweet as she answered
him.

That question has been a long time incoming,
Bertie ? "

"Yes, Nell," he said. "But you were
always very generous."

11 To my shame, I have answered the
question before you asked it."

Bertie Ames raised her hand and kissed
it, looking at her very fixedly as he did so.

At the touch of his lips the colour rushed
back into Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay's face.

Ah ! stop, stop," she cried, with a
sudden desperate energy; "stop before it
is too late. You will regret this ; you will
wish it undone. Cancel it now at once.
Tell me you don't mean it ; that it is all a
crazy dream and delusion. You have been
forced into it hurriedly, without due consideration,

through my folly. Take it hack
while you can. I will forgive you; I will
drive it out of my mind. I will never,
never refer to it or reproach you. But
if you go further, Bertie  oh, I am so
weak !  I shall not be able to bear it ; it
will break my heart."

For all answer Bertie Ames bent forward
and kissed her on the lips.

It was fore-ordained, Eleanor ; it is done
and settled. Pray don't say so many
charming things to me ; you will make me
intolerably conceited. And it w T ould be an
obvious mistake on your part to increase
the number of my offensive peculiarities,
just as you have made up your mind to
pass the remainder of your natural life in
my company."

Later that same evening, when she had
read Cecilia Farrell's letter, Mrs. 
turned in thought very warmly
towards the Colonel. Did she not, after
all, practically owe him everything? She
had got what she had longed so ardently
for at last ; and the satisfaction of her
longing, far from making her selfish, exalted

her moral nature for the time, and produced
in her a craving after conduct that seemed
to her heroic and splendid.

You must go to England, Bertie'
she said. " Yes, I will dare to trust you.
Indeed, I should feel safer if you see Jessie
again."

Eleanor lifted her head proudly ; she
looked really superb as she spoke. Ah !
what a medicine is happiness ! The physician
giving his patients a prescription
which induced it, need not fear but that
his name, through all future ages, would
rival aesculapius' own.

"I do not say that I shall not suffer
horribly at moments, but I will offer up
my suffering as an expiation. With his
will or against it, you must save Colonel
Enderby."

This was all very well. Bertie smiled
and raised his eyebrows. His cousin's
enthusiastic treatment of the subject appeared
to him both pretty and amusing.

I have the highest regard for Enderby,"
he said; " but does it not strike you, Nell,
that there may be a slight inconvenience ?

We were not united during his stay here in
exactly the closer bonds of affection."

"Never mind," she answered. " Cecilia
is right ; your words have greater weight
with Jessie than any one else's. She will
attend to what you say. You must go
soon ; you must manage it. Surely," added
Eleanor, very sweetly and gently, " if I am
willing you should go  I realize the risk 
you can hardly refuse ? "

Parker made her own comment on Mr.
Ames' return. Whether she apprehended
all the consequences likely to result from
that event, I cannot say ; but she selected
a characteristic manner of expressing her
general sense of approval.

I think you might as well get those new
sets of towels, after all, ma'am," she said, as
she brushed out her mistress's masses of
fine, dusky hair that night.

Eleanor turned round upon her with
glowing cheeks and flashing eyes.

Parker, you are impertinent," she
cried. " Why may I as well get them ? "

"Oh, you know your own mind best, of
course, ma'am' returned the other woman

calmly. u You make me pull out your hair
dreadfully, when you twist about like that.
You never could sit quiet and sensible to
have your hair brushed ever since you were
a child. Only these towels, as I told you,
are wearing as thin as thin  they don't pay
for my time mending ; and I thought we
oughtn't be going out of housekeeping
quite so soon, after all."

Parker ended up with a very audible sniff.

And the polemics, and the lives of the
saints, and the blessed repose of a religious
house, and the infinite consolations of the
holy Oratorian ? Ah ! well, sweet reader,
we must not ask too much from poor human
nature. Mr. Bertie Ames had come back,
you see, and that had made a difference in
the relative value of these things.

Chapter II.

DR. SYMES COMES NEAR CAPPING A FIRST
MISTAKE BY A SECOND.

Mrs. Jack Enderby's ball was a great success.
Everybody said so, and in the verdict
of the multitude is truth  at least, so democracy,
the gospel of the present era, assures
us. The whole entertainment went off
admirably ; it had all been done generously
and in the very best style. One disturbing-episode
did indeed occur in the course of the
evening, which to a moralist of a morbid
and gloomy temper might have served asa
text for a depressing discourse. One
member of the assembled company did,
unquestionably, have his measure of enjoyment
lopped off painfully short. But
there  let us by all means avoid the soft
swampy places of over-tender sentiment ;

and, taking our stand on the solid ground
of commonsense, proclaim aloud the consolatory
doctrine of the greatest happiness
of the greatest number. This over-careful
consideration of the fate of a unit, here and
there, betokens a lamentable smallness of
vision. We will base ourselves broadly;
stand with our legs very wide apart ; and
so keep our balance, spite of certain qualms
and queasiness. Shall the instruments of
the musicians be silenced, and the quick
feet of the dancers be stayed ; shall the cold
baked meats be left untasted, and the wine
drunk, because one individual has had
the ill-luck to fall a victim to some of those
manifold evils that lie ever in wait for the
unhappy sons and daughters of men ?

No, indeed, says the wise world; such
things are altogether too common to affect
us. Are they not happening somewhere all
day long ? Bather, then, let the pulse of
the valse beat faster and more urgently;
and the lithe young figures drift more
rapidly across the gleaming floor, while the
hot air of the ball-room palpitates with
light and emotion. Dance on, cries the

wise world : let the beautiful madness have
its fullest sway. Its time is short, at best.
The feverish hours are passing, hastening,
fleeting onward towards the chill solemnity
of the winter dawn ; even as the fantastic,
passionate, irresolute lives of the dancers
are fleeting onward towards the pale silence
and immutable calm of death. Therefore,
dance on, cries the world  dance till you
forget those that suffer and that are
stricken ; forget the anguish, and the groaning,
and the sweat of blood.

Persons of good taste and breeding will
always help you to do this, for they are
first-rate professors in the fine art of living.
The rack, and the whip, and the thumbscrew,
and those other ugly inventions of
the enemy that men have named accident,
disease, decay, insanity, are to be found
under all roofs alike, it is true ; but well-bred
persons have at least the grace to hide
them away in some far-removed and thick-walled
chamber, and to double-lock the door
of it. Dance on, then, fearlessly; in good
society you are not likely to be offended by
hearing the hiss of the lash, or the squeal

of the pulleys, or the desolate moan of the
victim. And even if, by chance, these unpleasant
little matters should not be quite
well managed, and a strange discordant
echo should rise, now and again, above the
swift rush of the melody, and the soft
rhythmical sweep of women's draperies 
dance on still. To the worldly wise, who
have truly learnt their lesson, the neighbourhood
of possible pain only lends a
keener edge to the appetite for present
pleasure. Dance, dance while you can.
The time is short, and who knows but his
own turn may come next ? Dance on ;
only remember when your turn does come 
as come it most surely will  that you owe a
certain debt to the society which has played
with you, laughed with you, nattered you,
loved you, too, after its fashion, through
all the days of your vanity. Early what
remnants of manhood may be left in you ;
put a good face on the matter; give as
little trouble as possible ; go away decently
and good-temperedly into that thick-walled
chamber with the torturers, for escape is
hopeless ; and so, indeed, silence is best.

Despite all this sermonizing, the fact
remains that Mrs. Jack Enderby's ball was
a great success. Everybody came, from
Lord Sokeington with his omnibus and
carriagefuls driving over the ten miles
from Pentstock Castle, to Mrs. Mumford,
the parson's wife at Priors Basset  a
Madonna-like lady of an innocently surprised,
sour-sweet countenance, who for
years has greeted all local festivities in the
same puce-coloured silk with satin trimmings,
and white lace shawl, sometime her
wedding-veil.

Cecilia Darrell, too, was at the Bassett
Darcy ball. She w 7 ould very willingly have
stayed away, it is true ; but Mrs. Murray
would not hear of it. Cecilia must go.
Mrs. Murray managed to tuck her into
the vacant place in a fly hired by her
neighbour Mrs. Latimer for this auspicious
occasion. Yet further, Cecilia must be
resplendent. Mrs. Murray was playing
that same old game of hers : and this time'
she believed she had sighted so valuable a
possible son-in-law that the expenditure of
a handsome number of pounds on a suitable

costume for Cecilia was a mere triviality.
Mrs. Farrell herself, in her fine gown, was
far from happy. She felt a good deal like
the proverbial dog at a fair. What had she
to do with ail this light and warmth and
merriment ; with these wide, bright, crowded
rooms, and their shifting show of wealth and
beauty ?

Mrs. Jack Enderby welcomed her genially
enough ; but there had been a lurking
criticism and kindly amusement in her
bold, comely face as she did so. Augusta,
like most women of a robust physique and
healthy habit of mind, entertained a kind
of secret contempt for the less successful
members of her own sex. This, too, was
the hour of Augusta's triumph. She gloried
in sight of her great stately house full of
guests. Her heart swelled with pride as
she stood there to greet one well-known
face after another  knowing that half the
county, and half the county's menservants
as well, were eating and drinking and diverting
themselves freely at her expense. This
prodigal, open-handed instinct of hospitality
is rather a savage virtue, perhaps ; but I

YOL. III. G

venture to think it a very real one, all the
same.

And Mrs. Jack's exultation on the present
occasion was the more excusable, in that
she had served her apprenticeship to narrow
means and hard work pretty thoroughly
during those years spent in the ramshackle
old rectory at Cold Enderby; when the
monthly nurse was a periodic visitor ; when
the children grew so fast out of the best
frocks that it was so difficult to replace ;
when a rise of a penny in the pound in
moor's-rate taxed all her philosophy; and
when Jack went out farming or shooting
every day in the week, to find himself,
late on Saturday night, with hardly a
word written of tomorrow's sermon. Now
Augusta was agreeably sensible of having
escaped out of the slavery of Egypt, and
taken up her quarters in land flowing with
milk and honey. Strong in the enjoyment
of her own success, she was a little disposed
to look down on women less happily
situated than herself. Prosperity too often
lias a hardening influence even on the
really good-hearted.

And so poor Cecilia Farrell, as usual,
represented the death's head at the feast 
or, to speak accurately, would have represented
it, if anybody had been at leisure to
observe her. Mr. Drake looked after her,
it is true, in his kind fussy way at intervals ;
but Mr. Drake was in a small turmoil of
self-importance. He had constituted himself
aide-de-camp to Mrs. Jack Enderby,
and rushed about wildly  finding partners
for pretty girls, securing seats and suppers
for elderly ladies, dancing himself vigorously
between whiles, and pervading space generally,
till it seemed probable that only a
direct interposition of Providence would
prevent his falling incontinently into an
apoplectic fit.

With that red face and short neck," as
Mrs. Mumford remarked severely to her
excellent spouse, "it is really very dangerous
for a middle-aged man to be so
active."

Mrs. Farrell, then, sat against the wall
and watched the movement and gaiety;
and with all her goodness she could not
banish a sense of injury from her mind. It

seemed hard to be no longer young and
attractive ; to be passed over and generally
out of it. Brilliant young people laugh
lightly at us old frumps, male and female ;
but we, the said frumps, unfortunately retain
our sensibilities, even when hairs are grey,
and complexions dulled, and symmetry of
figure is merged in fat or reduced to curious
angularity of outline. In our best moments
we laugh with them. It is a ridiculous
thing to grow old, of course : nevertheless
the laughter leaves a sting behind it, which
rankles a good deal at times. Decidedly
Cecilia did not relish her part of death's
head at the feast ; and it was with a
distinct lightening of the heart that, towards
the middle of the evening, she perceived
the high conical skull and odd
goat-like physiognomy of Dr. Symes, as
that gentleman  hugging the wall to avoid
collision with the dancers  made his way
slowly round to the spot where she was-stationed.


Ah! my dear Mrs. Farrell, at last! I
have spent the last half-hour in searching
for you. Mrs. Latimer told me, when I

first entered the ball-room, that you had
driven over with her and her daughters.
I was sincerely glad to learn you were here.
This species of scene," continued the doctor,
waving his hand with a certain magnificence
towards the dancers  " this species of
scene should have an intrinsic value even
in the eyes of us who are merely spectators.
It represents an important, and, I would
add, a recurrent necessity of our strangely
complex constitution  the necessity for
recreation. Personally I am a strong-advocate
of recreation, I regard it as a
bulwark against a thousand insidious moral
and physical temptations. I would say
to every one,  Cultivate a capacity for
innocent amusement ; unstring the bow,
at times ; give the mind and spirit a
holiday."

The doctor settled himself comfortably
on the lounge beside Cecilia. He was
sensible of a condition of serene well-being
just at the present time, which disposed
him to be communicative. He did not
disguise from himself the sources of that
sense of well-being. He was perfectly

aware that, analytically examined, it resolved
itself into a matter of so much warmth,
light, and sympathetic, sensuous excitement,
reinforced by an excellent supper and a
certain quantity of alcohol. Mortimer
Symes w r as neither of the age nor of the
squeamish way of thinking, that is suspicious
of all sensations that do not clearly
take their rise in the higher faculties of
our being. If, in themselves, the sensations
w r ere agreeable, he did not think it incumbent
upon him to reject them because they
did not hail from a finely intellectual
region. The excellent man had arrived at
a temper wherein he was glad to pick a
modest posy of pleasure anywhere by the
wayside, having quite ceased to expect
that Fortune would ever turn him loose in
fairy gardens and bid him fill his hands
with priceless exotics. He felt comfortable
and communicative. He wanted to moralize
at his ease ; and Mrs. Farrell, he knew, was
a model listener.

Yes," he said, leaning back and letting
his keen, observant eyes wander slowly over
the bright swaying throng:  "I would say

to every one, specially to those who lead
solitary lives and are of a serious habit, 
Retain as long as possible your capacity
for amusement ; add constantly to the sum
of your lighter experiences. One or two
acquaintances of mine have been a little
surprised at seeing me present to-night.
I appear to them, I imagine, slightly out
of place. But I know how much I gain
by occasionally attending a reunion of this
description  gain, not only in the way of
immediate entertainment, but in the enlarging
of my comprehension of my fellow-creatures.
Solitude deadens the sympathies.
I would go even further. The exclusive
society of only a few persons, however
deeply beloved those persons may be, is
calculated sadly to narrow and obscure the
outlook on life. The general is tonic ; the

particular  the particular "

Mortimer Symes stopped abruptly at the
climax of his aphorism ; for "the particular"
arrested his attention sharply just then,
in the shape of a tall, good-looking young
fellow, with a fresh beardless face, and a
girl in a gleaming, pale yellow dress, that

floated out like a delicate foam-bell from
her charming waist as she danced.

"Dear me!" he exclaimed, almost involuntarily,
"that is a rather dangerously
pretty performance."

Cecilia followed the direction of the
doctor's gaze. It was the first time she
had seen Jessie since her wretched and
mortifying visit to the Manor House.
That she might learn something about
Jessie and her husband, and how they were
going on, had in a measure reconciled
Cecilia to the distasteful idea of this Bassett
ball. She did not want to come personally
in contact with either of them ; but she
longed to know 7 . Now she knew something,
any way  namely, that Jessie was going on
in a sufficiently gay and indifferent manner.

Mrs. Farrell clasped and unclasped her
grey-gloved hands as they rested upon her
black-lace lap rather nervously.

I am afraid I ought to have tried to
find an opportunity of telling you sooner,
Dr. Symes," she said. "I did no good,
only harm, when I went to Mrs. Enderby.
You remember about it ? "

The doctor turned to her with his
blandest smile. To have spoken first on
this embarrassing subject would, he felt,
have been an indelicate, although he had
been curious, for some while, to know the
result of Mrs. Farrell's mission.

"I am sure you did your very best, my
dear madam," he answered; " and no one
can do more than that."

"It was a miserable, miserable failure,"
she continued, in a tone of distress. "Everything
went wrong. I was not fortunate,
I suppose, in my way of putting it ; and
Mrs. Enderby would not listen to me. I
hope it isn't wrong, Dr. Symes," she added,
in a low voice, "but I am almost afraid of
her. She was so strange that afternoon.
She doesn't seem to be touched by what
would certainly touch anybody else. I
don't want to say anything unkind or ill-natured
; but she is not, somehow, quite
like other people."

Ah ! you feel that too," returned the
doctor.

He nodded intelligently  as one who
could say a good deal more if he chose todo

so  and then, throwing his head back,
sank into a rather easier attitude on the
lounge.

"I have made nearer acquaintance with
Mrs. Enderby since we last discussed this
subject. A singular nature  a curious and
interesting study  so highly developed in
some directions, and undeveloped in others.
Perfectly true, Mrs. Farrell ; I have feared
lately that I had asked you to perform a
very hard task. Undeniably Mrs. Enderby
would be remarkably difficult to appeal to
under some circumstances."

Cecilia hesitated ; finally she said : 

Do you mean that she's deficient in anyway
?"

Oh dear, no ! " replied Dr. Symes with
alacrity; " not in the least deficient in the
ordinary acceptation of the term. I should
say, on the contrary, that this young lady
though really I must apologize for submitting
so charming a person to a cold-blooded,
critical analysis  I should say
she was a trifle over vitalized. The body
responds almost too quickly to the instincts
and emotions ; it interprets them with too

great readiness. Second thoughts, you
know, are admitted to be best, and this
young lady, I fancy, never arrives at second
thoughts at all ; but speaks and acts entirely
from the impulse of the moment  with
amazing spontaneity, in fact. And that
is perilous," he added meditatively  " especially
for others."

Cecilia looked up inquiringly. The words,
though she did not comprehend them, conveyed
a disturbing impression to her mind.

Our creed, my dear Mrs. Farrell  our
creed requires us to believe that every
human being is the possessor, for joy or
sorrow, of an immortal soul. Otherwise" 
Mortimer Symes spoke with a touch of the
wholesale manner  "were I free, in short,
to follow my own conclusions  I bow to
the authority of my creed, of course, and
abstain from following them  I should
venture most seriously to question the truth
of that doctrine."

The doctor was becoming alarmingly expansive
; but the general sense of wellbeing,
already alluded to, unlooses the
tongue to a pernicious extent ; and frequently

tempts a man to give voice to his
deepest thought  which had better be hidden
instead of to his superficial and conventional
thought, which may be presented
to society with perfect safety.

Just at that moment, however, the stream
of his eloquence suffered a violent check.
A mild, lanky youth  who undoubtedly
stood in need of a few lessons from some
professor of dancing, judging from his
extremely erratic method of progression 
suddenly deposited a ponderous lady, in
cinnamon and old-gold-coloured garments,
plump on the doctor's lap.

Beg-your-pardon," ejaculated the youth,
all in one word ; and, recovering at the
same moment both his own footing and
his grasp on his partner's waist, plunged
away with her again into the crowd.

"Ah, good gracious! how deeply embarrassing
! " cried the doctor, rubbing his
knees, bruised with the heavy weight so
unexpectedly let down upon them.

Then he cleared his throat, and arranged
himself a little.

To resume," he observed w T with dignity.

That the germ of a soul is always present ,
I will not deny. But in rare and curious
cases it seems never to develop out of the
embryonic condition. Some persons are
essentially too natural and healthy to produce
soul. I speak colloquially. To put
it in a more accurate form  every nature
has only a certain capacity. If the body is
highly vitalized, and the intelligence highly
vitalized too, there is not force enough left
over to promote active development of
spirit. We are coming to acknowledge that
the moral constitution may be subject to
congenital disease and defect, just as the
physical constitution has long been admitted
to be. "Why not carry on the analogy one
step farther, and allow that the spiritual
constitution may be radically and irretrievably
defective likewise ? My professional
experience, I own, inclines me to hail
thankfully any lessening of the load of
human responsibility."

Dr. Symes drew himself up short. He
became aware that he had wandered away
along paths of metaphysical speculation,
to a wild and unfamiliar region, through

which courtesy hardly sanctioned his inviting
Mrs. Farrell to follow him, in her
best gow T n and grey kid gloves.

"But really," he said, with his blandest
smile, "I trespass on your forbearance
most unwarrantably. I advocate recreation,
and then proceed to w r earl you with
recondite and, I fear, unorthodox questions.
Forgive me, Mrs. Farrell. An indulgent
listener too often makes an inconsiderate
speaker."

Cecilia, however, was not light in hand.
Her apprehension was slow; but it was
tenacious. She sat, hearing the gay yet
pathetic music, the buzz of conversation
and rustle of women's garments, and seeing
the involved and quickly changing
figures of the dance, in mute astonishment,
almost horror. To her conscience, formed
in a definitely religious mould, accepting
unreservedly the Puritan solution of the
enigma of existence, the doctor's ingenious
little theories were not unorthodox merely,
but injurious, bewildering, terribly subversive.


u Do you mean to say you think the

person we were talking of lias no soul?"
she inquired, in a scared whisper.

Oh, you must not take my words too
seriously, my dear madam," he answered.
u I spoke as one speaks in the borderland
between absolute truth and mere fancy.
I spoke in what I may designate as a
pseudo-scientific spirit. The tongue is an
unruly member, you know ; and leaves strict
veracity too often far behind it. I must
try to justify myself. I mean just this."

He sat up.

Ah ! there, observe her now," he cried
quickly.

Jessie in her gauzy draperies passed close
by them., valuing with Charlie Colvin  she
had been valuing with him pretty nearly
all the evening, by the way. They both
danced well ; but their dancing had a
peculiar quality about it ; it was more than
simply graceful and accurate. If I may
indulge for a moment in Dr. Symes' rather
fanciful way of regarding things, I should
describe these two dancers as being animated
with a common life. There was a singular
concentration  not of purpose, for it was

perfectly spontaneous and instinctive, but
  of emotion about Jessie, which expressed
itself as much in the action of her supple,
rounded figure as in her face. There was
a fulness of enjoyment in every easy, gliding
motion. She danced not as the ordinary
young lady dances in the ordinary ballroom,
with a consciousness of chaperones and propriety
in the background, with a touch of
nervousness about the set of her skirt, and
harassing suspicions that she is beginning
to look heated. Jessie yielded herself upto
her dancing with an extraordinary singleness
of purpose. The whole woman danced,
careless alike of past and future, with the
victorious ease and grace of overflowing
health and gaiety  with no desire, no
aspiration, beyond the enjoyment of the
present moment.

As Mrs. Farrell watched her, in the light
of her conversation with the doctor ; as she
noted the exquisitely, harmonious movements
; the clear, flushed cheek ; the
even rise and fall of the girl's bosom ; the
passionless content of her eyes as the turns
of the valse brought her face for a few

seconds into view ;  as, I say, she marked
all this, Mrs. Farrell shrank hack into herself,
dazzled, amazed, almost terrified at
the vista of undreamed-of possibilities that
opened before her.

Dr. Symes looked at her closely. He
perceived that she saw  dimly and brokenly,
perhaps, but still saw  that which he had
desired she should see.

Human nature is very complicated, "
he began, a trifle sententiously. " You
cannot enclose or account for its infinite
intricacies under any single system, Mrs.
Farrell. I am no scholar, in the technical
sense of the term, I regret to say. I ama
mere dabbler in the shallows of that
prolific ocean of prehistoric fable, which
is at once so hopelessly fantastic and so
deeply imbued with some of the most
obscure and intimate secrets of existence.
But in watching that young lady just now,
I could not avoid thinking of the ancient
conception of a race of beings supplying the
missing link between ourselves and the
dumb animals about us. I seemed to be
carried back, in imagination, to an old, old
vol. in. ir

world  older than right and wrong, older
than heaven and hell  a calm, simple,
sunny, light-hearted world, where nature
reigned ; and in which man was but the
fairest and cleverest of the beasts that
perish, triumphant in his strength and
beauty, obeying fearlessly the dictates of
his nature, untrammelled by conscience,
unburdened by the suspense and anxiety
which come of spiritual aspiration."

He paused as for applause ; the taste of
his own phrases was sweet in his mouth.

Cecilia was not in the least disposed
to applaud. Her companion's fine words
were of small moment to her on this occasion.
She cared not a rap for prehistoric
times and the golden age ; fauns, nymphs,
and satyrs alike were but the dramatis
persona of children's story-books to her.
But for the modern instance, for the woman
Jessie Enderby, she cared intensely. That
Dr. Symes  whose talent she respected,
w T hom she liked and admired  should feel
justified in hinting such strange and awful
things about an acquaintance of her own,
a woman to whom she stood in a peculiar

Relation, whose hand she had held in hers,
whose merry words she had so often listened
to with an admiration not unmixed with
envy, was to Cecilia simply appalling. To
think of Jessie as soulless seemed unspeakably
terrible. Decidedly Mrs. Farrell was
wanting in imagination. Had the doctor
suggested that the girl might be afflicted
with kleptomania, or guilty of forgery, it
would have been far less painful to her.
She had no words adequately to express
the feeling that oppressed her.

Oh, this is all very shocking," she murmured;
" very alarming."

The abnormal is always more or less
shocking, I suppose," replied Dr. Symes,
gravely. " That the abnormal is bound to
place those who come into near connection
with it in most difficult and trying situations,
I have no doubt. We have not, by
any means, seen the end of this singular
business yet, I fear, Mrs. Farrell. If Mrs.
Enderby  I speak to you quite freely  had
a child, it might prove her salvation. It-would,
I believe, develop the latent higher
nature in her. It would give her a soul."

"Ah!" said Cecilia sadly, "but a child
is a fearful responsibility."

To you, yes," be replied, smiling ; " but
it would not be much of a responsibility to
Mrs. Enderby, I fancy. To her it would be
more of a delightful, animated plaything
than an T thing else. If you will pardon my
saying so  ladies, I know, are apt to resent
the statement  the maternal instinct in its
simple form is not a very high one ; it is
mainly physical. Still, from the development
of that instinct, Mrs. Enderby might
get an inkling of the meaning of self-sacrifice
; and self-sacrifice, I take it, is the
true basis and motive power of all true
spiritual life. For the first time she would
forget herself  she would love."

Cecilia Farrell turned to her companion
with a certain dignity ; and the blood
came into her thin cheeks.

She has her husband, let her love him,"
she said sternly.

Ah ! I very much fear nature has failed
to supply Mrs. Enderb} with any instincts
under that head ; barring the very common
one  we all possess it in a degree  of

making the most use possible of a willing
slave."

There, I trust, you are mistaken," said
Cecilia, still sternly.

In sympathy she had taken many steps
away from Dr. Symes in the last ten
minutes.

I shall be only too happy that events
should prove me mistaken in the case in
point, my dear madam," he replied. " One
is thankful, always, to find that one has
overstated the gravity of any matter."

The music had ceased. The room had
grown comparatively empty. The sound of
footsteps, the confused murmur of voices,
now and again" a soft outbreak of laughter,
wandered in from the hall and passages
outside. Poor Cecilia sat still, looking
blankly out over the wide, bright space
before her. She was pained and perplexed.
She was displeased too ; and that with one
of the few persons who by habitual kindness
had won her regard and gratitude.

Dr. Symes had a sense that the harmony
of his relation with Mrs. Farrell had been
disturbed, and he regretted it. All the

more so that, in her late movement of
severity, she had claimed both his respect
and admiration.

Under happier circumstances, she might
have been a charming woman'' he thought.
Poor Colonel Enderby is to be pitied,
perhaps, in this also."

It was so obvious to Dr. Symes that the
lady was not paying any attention to him,
that he permitted himself to take a good
long steady stare at Mrs. Farrell. He had
certainly never seen her to so much advantage
before. She was w r ell-dressed for
once ; the excitement under w T which she
laboured had both given her dignity and
improved her complexion. With all her
peculiarities there was an unmistakable
effect of good breeding about her. Her
faithfulness and devotion commanded
Mortimer Symes' sincerest respect. Shew
T as far from being brilliant or. exciting;
but that she was eminently conscientious
and dependable there could be no question.
Whether the good doctor had talked himself
into an unusual state of exaltation, or
whether the atmosphere of a ballroom is

peculiarly productive of romantic affections,
I cannot pretend to say: but it is certain
that a notion, which for a long time past
had furtively and intermittently haunted
the chambers of his brain, began to take
form and consistence with surprising
rapidity. If that venerable lady Mrs.
Murray could be got rid of  and he had
devised an excellent scheme for her
removal a man might, Dr. Symes thought,
do worse than pass the last stages of his
earthly pilgrimage with Cecilia Farrell fora
companion.

He cleared his throat and adjusted his tie
with an air of preparation.

My dear Mrs. Farrell," he began, " the
garrulity of age, favoured by your courteous
attention, has bid fair to run away with me
to-night. I fear I have exhausted your
patience ; and, for myself, have wasted an
invaluable opportunity. There is quite
another subject on which I greatly desire
to say a few words to you."

He paused. Cecilia looked at him ; the
doctor's manner was extremely ornate.

You must pardon my speaking of myself,"

lie continued.  " My position is a
singularly independent one. I have no
near relatives. Such fortune as I possess
is entirely at my own disposal. I am not
ashamed to say, Mrs. Farrell, that my
income is, at the present time, a considerable
one, since it is almost exclusively the
result of my own exertions. For a professional
man I am unusually well off. At my
death a not inconsiderable sum must pass
into other hands."

So far he had progressed with ease and
determination ; but, really, it was difficult to
go on. Dr. Symes leant forward and gazed
earnestly at the polished oak floor between
his feet, hoping, apparently, to gain inspiration
from the well-set boards.

As to Cecilia, she regarded him with
surprised and slightly anxious attention.
Confidences invariably agitated her.

You, Mrs. Farrell, w 7 with your quick and
genuine sympathy, will readily understand
that when my thoughts project themselves
forward towards the inevitable close, towards
that final journey which awaits us all, they
ware not untouched with gloom. Why, I

ask myself, have I thus toiled and laboured ?
What is the object of a man amassing wealth
modest wealth, I grant you, as compared
with the colossal fortunes of the present day,
but still wealth  if he has no child to benefit
by it  if no young life is to be beautified
and enriched by his past labours ? "

Mrs. Farrell made no audible comment.
It was trying ; she had a great habit of
making no comment. Under some circumstances
that might be very convenient ;
just now it was very inconvenient, Dr.
Symes thought. He tried to keep up his
courage by a mild flight of rhetoric.

Now that the sun of my existence has,
so to speak, passed the zenith, and begun
to decline towards the west, I find myself
increasingly desirous to create intimate relations
for myself, to live no longer in isolation,
in solitude, and at a distance from
my kind. My dear lady," he said, turning
full upon her, and speaking with real
feeling, "I envy you your boy. I have
wondered, pondered, asked myself many
searching questions on this subject. Can
we not, I ask you  and I beseech you

earnestly not to reply without duly weighing
my request  can we not effect a combination
of interests  a combination which, I allow,
will leave me infinitely your debtor ? "

Here the doctor bowed courteously to his-companion.


"Will you grant me the privilege of
sharing those responsibilities of which you
are so sensible ? Will you reward my true
and reverential affection by "

But Cecilia interrupted him breathlessly.

"Look, look!" she cried; "there is-philip
Enderby dancing  dancing with his
wife."

I do not know whether the strength of
his professional instincts should be reckoned
a credit to him or otherwise ; but Mortimer
Symes broke off his important discourse
with the utmost alacrity, sat up, and peered
eagerly among the passing couples for the
one to which Mrs. Farrell had drawn his
attention.

"Good heavens!" he exclaimed, with a
movement of anger, "what an act of insanity
! Our friend Colonel Enderby has
an absolute enthusiasm for suicide."

Oh, go to him," implored Mrs. Farrell,
u go to him ; stop him. It is some wickedness
of Jessie Enderby's. Oh, I can't forgive
her ! ' '

The poor woman spoke from the heart,,
regardless of all minor conventionalities.

"We must not judge the young lady too
hastily," returned the doctor, recovering his
usual suavity of manner. ' ' To intervene
now would be merely to make an inconvenient
scene  to put myself hopelessly in
the wrong, and destroy all confidence between
my patient and myself. Shall we
move ? I should be glad to make my way
towards the door."

With many stoppages and delays Di
Symes piloted Mrs. Farrell round two sides
of the large room. It was really a matter
of time and of some difficulty. Various
persons hailed the good man as he passed,
and refused to let him go away in a hurry ;
then, too, the room was full again, and it
was not easy to dodge the dancers. At
last, just by the door leading out into the
hall, Mr. Drake, breathless, excited, and
redder in the face than ever, met them.

God bless me," he said, in a low voice,
"I thought I never should find you! I
don't want to alarm any one ; we must keep
it quiet. Nobody fortunately saw what
happened. Come out here into the hall.
Enderby's ill, dying  I don't know what 
but they want you. Come away to the
library ; they've put him in there, poor dear
fellow. Awful thing, you know, and with
that young wife too."

Talking all the while, and hurrying the
doctor along with him, Mr. Drake disappeared
within the inner hall.

Cecilia Farrell stood leaning against the
wall. She shut her eyes and pressed her
long, thin hand hard against her forehead.
Dr. Symes and his astonishing and but half-comprehended
conversation were blotted
out of her mind. Only the image of Philip
Enderby remained  Philip Enderby as she
had known him, loved him, danced with
him over twenty years ago.

CHAPTER III.

IN WHICH DEATH HAS A MIND TO DANCE TOO.

In order to explain the episode which proved
so startling both to Mrs. Farrell and her
companion, Mortimer Symes, the kindly
reader must be asked to retrace his steps to
an earlier period of that evening of Mrs. Jack
Enderby's social apotheosis : asked, moreover,
to readjust the focus of his spyglass
and contemplate the scene  not from the
thoughtless standpoint of the dancers, or
from the philosophic standpoint of the
doctor, or from the agitated standpoint
of Cecilia; but from the simple, practical,
and somewhat melancholy standpoint of
our friend Philip.

For, alas ! things have been going but
drearily with poor Philip for some time past ;

and there would seem to be but small hope of
their mending. What with pain, and weakness,
and black haunting nervous depression,
he has discomfort enough in his own
person to make the days pass heavily. Nor
is this physical distress all he has to put up
with. Struggle as he may, it becomes evermore
difficult to hide the signs of his trouble
from the eyes of his charming wife. And,
ignore them as she may, the burden of her
husband's affliction has begun to w r high on
her. It could hardly be otherwise since
she was so quick and observant. A hundred
little indications of the change that had
come over him forced themselves upon
her ; and the girl's humour began to change
too. Her sweetness of temper suffered
occasional eclipse ; she w r as flighty, capricious,
difficult to please. She seemed
to be under the impression that she had
come into the world with a divine right to
be ceaselessly amused : and if amusement
failed, so much the worse for the person
most bound by his position to supply it,
namely, her husband.

The Colonel worked with pathetic diligence

to meet his wife's demands for entertainment.
He tried to take a deep interest
in any trivial matter that pleased her ;
encouraged her to go out, to entertain ; let
her satisfy any passing fancy that took
her, and spend money in a rather reckless
fashion ; let her do what she pleased, so
long as she seemed happy and treated him
with affection ;  do anything in the world, in
fact, so long as thereby he could stave off
her discovery of the miserable truth that he
was a disabled, broken-down man, whose
life was hardly worth an hour's purchase.

Then Christmas, that penitential season
of the financial year, had come, bringing
with it revelations of expenditure so considerably
in excess of his income, that
Philip had been reluctantly compelled to
sacrifice a portion of his capital. He had
sold out certain shares, after much bother
and worry, to discover, of course, in the
end that he had sold them out just at the
wrong moment and at a prodigious disadvantage.
All this was very far from
cheering. If Mr. Bertie Ames or any other
of the Colonel's acquaintance were coming

to the rescue they had better make haste
about it, or they might chance to arrive a
little too late.

It has been said, with a somewhat transparent
affectation of cynicism, that life would
be very tolerable but for its amusements.
The phrase sounds well; it has a ring of
disillusionment and elegant fatigue ; and it
is a very agreeable occupation to coquet
with fatigue when you yourself are sound
and hearty, and to cultivate a mildly disillusioned
tone while you retain a lively
sense of personal importance and of the
value of your own utterances. Happy the
man who is still young enough, in heart
and feeling, to play a part  especially',
perhaps, the part of lofty contempt for
the diversions he largely participates in !
When, however, through the operation of
unkind fate, that phrase concerning life and
its amusements becomes practically true
for any luckless mortal, and light affectation
passes into actual fact, it is a very dismal
business indeed.

Philip Enderby had dreaded this particular
evening long beforehand. It promised

to be little better to him than a weariness
and a mockery. He would thankfully have
avoided going to stay at Bassett, and have
remained quietly at home. But two considerations
impelled him to overcome his
shrinking from the undertaking. Jessie,
notwithstanding her growing waywardness,
could not endure to be without him. She
demanded that her husband should always
be in attendance. There was an uncanny
element in the girl's absolute abhorrence of
solitude. Not that she was afraid of any
of those concrete bugbears of sensitive
womanhood  such as accidents, fire,
burglars, ghosts, thunder, wind in the
chimneys, death-watch, mice, or spiders.
Both by day and by night, the young lady's
wits were very well about her, and she was
by no means conspicuously liable to nervous
terrors. Her horror of solitude, like her
strange horror of sickness and death, was
something spontaneous, impossible to be
reasoned over or analyzed, only present and
imperative.

Jessie's constant desire for his presence
had, during the first sunny months of their

VOL. III. I

marriage, been one of Philip's deepest
satisfactions, seeming, as it did, to offer a
solid guarantee of the love he so earnestly
needed to believe in. Even now, when,
alas ! the silver cord of affection was somewhat
loosed, it supplied a very real bond
of union between the husband and wife : 
a bond which Philip, on his part, would
have endured anything rather than run the
risk of severing. Jessie begged him to goto
Bassett ; was petulant at his half-expressed
reluctance.  It was enough.  He
would go.

Then, too, an evil spirit of jealousy had
taken possession of the Colonel lately. We
must not judge him too hardly; the man
was very much in love, and was paying a
heavy price for his affections, into the
bargain. The time would come  was
sensibly creeping nearer  w T hen he must
leave this beautiful young creature. He
knew it ; in a way, he had brought that
trial upon himself. But, after he had left
her, what would happen ? Perhaps it was
mean and unworthy in him. I cannot say ;
it seems to me very excusable. Unquestionably

he began to feel bitterly towards
other men; began to regard there as his
natural enemies : to regard them much as
the doomed, barbarian captive must have
regarded the blooming, well-fed, Eoman
noble, casting glances of ill-concealed admiration
upon his faired-haired, blue-eyed
wife. The moroseness and savagery, w T which
is latent in all truly masculine natures,
put up its ugly head at moments, and
asserted its existence rather fiercely in
Colonel Enderby. Jessie, he felt, was hardly
the woman to break her heart over a
sepulchral urn, under the shadow of the
authorized weeping-willow.

So it came about that, for two reasons,
Philip thought it well to go to Bassett
Darcy : and being there, he tried to forget
his many troubles, and appear as little
peculiar as possible. With physical pain
to wrestle against almost hourly, with a
mental drama, of a sufficiently penetrating
character, acting itself out in silence all
day long, it is not easy, one must allow, to
be perfectly disengaged, urbane, and indifferent.
But Philip applied himself with

praiseworthy persistence to his own business.
It was a hard fight ; yet, so far, reason and
will "bravely maintained the ripper hand.

During the earlier hours of the evening
he had done his duty hy dowagers, various
and sundry ; had stood about in doorways,
indulging in desultory gossip w 7 with the non-dancing,
male members of the community-philip
had no notion of posing : perhaps
he would have impressed both his wife and
society at large very much more deeply
if he had. He made commonplace observations
; got tea for old ladies, and ices for
young ones ; conversed on the topics of the
day in no amazingly original or profound
manner ; caressed the ends of his moustache
; contemplated the toes of his shoes ;
and, in short, conducted himself generally
as all other gentlemen of good standing
habitually conduct themselves at kindred
festivities.

Yet, notwithstanding the outward and
visible signs of being as other men are,
he was vividly aware, all the while, of a
delectable figure in a gleaming yellow dress,
of a lovely childlike face, full of vivacity

and enjoyment. He was aware, too, that
this captivating form and countenance was
that of his wife,  of the woman he blindly
and supremely loved ;  aware, finally, that
a black figure was always beside her, whose
feet beat out the exciting measure of the
valse with hers, whose arm encircled her
w r list, whose face  and, unfortunately for
the Colonel's peace of mind, it was almost
always the same pleasant, frank, boyish
face  expressed very openly the warmest
gratification in being the happy partner of
this very charming person.

Though he had never happened to see
Jessie dance before, Philip had taken the
notion of her doing so quite for granted.
His own dancing days were over long ago.
Gentlemen getting on in years figuring
about freely, appeared to him a doubtfully
dignified spectacle ; but, to place any
embargo on his wife's enjoying herself after
this manner, would have seemed to him
a most tyrannical act of selfishness. Now,
however, he experienced  even in the midst
of a series of confidential communications
from that responsible and important person.

Lady Melvin, on the delightfully shocking

subject of a certain well-known scandal in

high life  an increasing - a of irritate

and dislike, at last, of unreasoning

hatred of this valsi  of the languors,

mervati 9 - antient of the nmsic, of the

rapid, yell poised and harmonious movement

I, Tliil: a  . and stared, and

red 1 him at the brilliant, swayii

sliiftii - I till his brain almost

1, and the whole thing became to
him a made I horror, unsubstantial,

])1. nal, purposeless. Onh

in all the whirling, drifting throng, retained
th amity to him  Jessie Derby, I

wife, for whose peace of mind and daily
entertainment he was painfully draining the

ingfi of his own lift dry; and Charlie
Colvin, the man whose carelessness  unintentional.
it is true  had helped to render
that bitter sacrifice necessary.

Philip straggled with himself, as we
struggle in dreams, when some unspeakable
thing seems to press down on us, paralyzing
alike all power of speech and action. Would
that hateful melody, with its sweet, voluptuous;

I ? Would those

two you. and

 
a wild fear tl bold do some

thin

le folly.

i, apoD '

Melvin,
in hi . slowly waving

her black nd turning a 1

con ' n.

authority. Isn't it ctly

shocking? What i society comic.
I And talks

about it too.--why, girl of the

schoolroom i tamen

would hardly have - :i of among

themselves, don't you know, after dinner,
in my youth

With a effort at Self-control, Philip

pulled himself together. He felt he m

and that immediately, if he meant
to keep his head, and not openly disgrace
himself.

Making some vague and incoherent exc;
to Lady Mein  which left that worthy

person in a state of combined resentment
and mystification  he got up hastily, and
made his way towards a smaller and less
brightly lighted apartment, opening off one
end of the ballroom. This little sitting-room
 in which, by the way, Philip had said
his last good-bye to his mother long ago
though cleared for dancing, was not
apparently very popular with the guests.
At the present moment it was wholly
deserted.

Pictures of departed E n derby s, somewhat
arrogant, high-coloured personages, looked
down with their prominent light-brown eyes
from out of their heavy gilt frames, as the
present head of their house moved with
unsteady steps across the room. Philip felt
half suffocated ; he wanted silence and
darkness. Above all, he wanted air  air to
relieve this horrible, choking, stifling sensation.
The floor, the walls, turned and
swam in his uncertain vision ; and all the
while he still seemed to see those two gay
young figures, dancing, dancing, before him.

Am I going mad ? " he cried half aloud,
as he dragged back one of the thick curtains

hanging across the bow window at the
end of the room.

Behind the curtains was a space formed
by the projection of the window. Colonel
Enderby threw himself down on the cushioned
window-seat, and unflinching the
catch of the tall narrow casement, leant
out into the chill quiet of the winter night.
The sounds from the ballroom hardly
reached him here, behind the screening
curtains, which had fallen back again into
their place behind him.

Outside, the night was frosty and starlight.
The ground showed a dusky white,
powdered over with a light coating of snow
that had fallen early in the day. Immediately
under the window, w T as the broad
gravel terrace, running along the southern
and eastern sides of the house. Beyond,
were the lawns, sloping towards the river.
A sharp wind drove small, fleecy clouds,
here and there, across the solemn deep of
the midnight sky, making the keen glittering
stars seem to drive with them in a wild
aerial race.

To Philip the biting frost and wind

brought a certain measure of relief. But,
still, over the pale lawns those two figures,
the light and the dark one, seemed to him
to drift on dancing, dancing still, away
down towards the impenetrable blackness
of the wood and river. Recognizing it all
the while to be a mere hallucination,
generated of weakness and illness, yet, with
a sort of terror, deeply moved, straining
his eyes to pierce the half darkness, Philip
watched the phantom slowly fade and
vanish into the night.

He could not think clearly. He only
knew that he was suffering ; that he was the
sport of his own juggling impressions ; that
a feverish misery and anxiety possessed him.
Supporting himself with one hand against
the stone mullion of the window, and resting
the other upon the ledge outside, Colonel
Enderby leaned out into the cold still
semi-obscurity. He wanted to avoid hearing
even the faintest echoes of the light,
pulsing footsteps, and of that sw T feet valse ;
and to steep his soul in the calm silence
that reigned without.

He had been, however, but a few minutes

at the "window, when his attention was
attracted by an indistinct object moving
along the terrace. At first the Colonel
feared he was still the victim of some
cerebral delusion ; but the moving object
took unmistakable shape as it came nearer.

It was only a small dog  Matthew
Enderby's old wire-haired terrier, which,
along with all that unamiable old gentleman's
other goods and chattels, had come
into the possession of his son Jack. The
poor little brute had wandered out of the
house to escape the stir and bustle earlier
in the evening ; and now was trotting disconsolately
about, vainly searching for some
quiet way of slipping indoors again.

Just as he came under the bow window,
the dog's feelings apparently got the better
of him. He sat down on the snowy gravel,
threw up his grey, bristly muzzle, and
broke into a long dreary howl.

Philip spoke to the dog and tried to quiet
it ; but the creature refused to be pacified.
Again the grey muzzle went up. Again the
long wailing cry rang out through the keen,
frosty air.

The Colonel was not naturally superstitious
; but his late sensations had left
hint shaken, and curiously excited. The
dog squatting there in the dim light, and
howling, was strangely agitating to him.
He tried to drive it away; hut it would
not budge. At last, Colonel Enderby
moved back and half closed the window ;
then the dog got up and silently trotted
away round the front of the house.

As he closed the window, Philip became
aware that he was no longer alone. Two
persons were talking together, on the other
side of the curtains.

No, it's really very provoking ! I don't
think it's fair that a married woman should
take complete possession of one of our best
dancers in this sort of way. I've known
Charlie Colvin for years. He was at Eton
with my brothers, you know ; and he always
kept in our set. He used to be so jolly
if we'd got anything going on at Melvin's
Keeping. He was like one of us, don't
you know, till he came to know her this
winter."

The speaker w r as evidently a girl. Both

her sentiments and the irritated tone of her
high clear treble testified to the fact.

A man answered quickly, in a good-natured,
bantering way : 

"Yes, poor Colvin's very much gone on
Mrs. Enderby, certainly. She's awfully
pretty, and he doesn't mean any harm hi
the world, you know. But I think it's silly
to get into that sort of state myself."

There's a frightful draught here,"
observed the girl. " Let us go back into
the other room. He is making the most
of his opportunities to-night, in any case.
She's a fearful little flirt. I've counted ' '

The young lady's skirts rustled over the
bare floor, and her w r words died away in the
distance.

The shock administered by this conversation
galvanized Philip into very vivid
life. If two men had been speaking hew
r ould have shown himself at the end of
the first sentence ; but he could not make a
scene with a lady. He had been compelled
to listen and to wait. All his physical
ailments, all his morbid perturbations and
distresses, were forgotten in those few

searching moments. Jessie, his wife, his
darling, was lightly spoken of.

Colonel Enderby flung aside the heavy
curtains, careless of who might see him, and
stepped out into the room, strong, steady,
resolute as he had been on the best day of
his life. Indeed, he would not have been
quite a pleasant man to cross just then.
His face w r as set like a flint, and there
was an ominous blaze in his blue eyes.

It so happened that almost the first person
he came across w r as Jessie herself. She was
standing just inside the door of the ballroom,
w T with a little group of men about
her  among them Ashley Waterfield, and
his wife's protege, Mr, Lewis Vandercrup 
a thin, neat-featured young man, with preternaturally
small hands and feet  one of
the Melvin boys, and the red-haired parson
from Priors Bassett, w r ho was chuckling ina
stout, unctuous way, and murmuring : 

Ah ! very good, very good indeed, Mrs.
Enderby."

Pardon me," said the Colonel, as he
elbowed his way through the group, which
melted to right and left as he advanced.

The excellent divine lingered longest, not
being quick to take a hint. But even he,
looking at the new-comer, had an inkling
that there was something a trifle dangerous
in his aspect ; and ended by tacking off
rather hurriedly in the direction of his
puce-silk arrayed wife.

Well, if I ever saw a man look as if he
was in a devil of a rage, it's Enderby,"
observed Ashley Waterfield to his companion,
Mr. Yandercrup, as he lounged away.

Jessie, however, greeted her husband with
her most bewitching of smiles. She was as
merry as a cricket, as bright as a bird.

Where have you been, Philip?" she
asked, not giving him time to speak.
You were talking to Lady Melvin just
now. From my heart I pitied you ! Ah,
but that woman is a consummate bore !
And then you disappeared. I looked for
you ; I could not see you. Poor, dear
Philip ; she was, perhaps, a trifle too overpowering,
even for you."

Jessie gave herself a little shake.

Are you not glad? " she said. " I am
having a ravishing evening."

The girl's humour, delicious though it
was, w r as hardly calculated to clear Colonel
Enderby's path of difficulties ; but the fire
both of his love and his anger burned
fiercely in him still.

Come away, Jessie," he said briefly.
I w T ant to speak to you."

She gave him a quick, inquiring glance ;
then drew herself up, with a pretty touch
of dignity, and went into the little empty
room beyond. About the centre of it she
stopped and turned round.

Well ? " she said, with a note of interrogation
in her tone.

More than once Jessie had told her husband
that it became him to be excited. Undoubtedly,
as the Colonel stood in front of
his wife now, he looked extremely well.
Jessie remarked it  there were very few
things indeed that she did not remark 
and it pleased her.

"Ah ! mon ami" she cried, " but what
have you done to yourself ? You are
splendid, you are admirable."

Colonel Enderby's face did not relax.

Look here, Jessie," he said slowly;

you know I don't interfere with you, asa
rule. I don't ask you to do anything unreasonable
; but something has occurred
to-night  never mind what, I cannot tell
you,  it was infernally unpleasant " 
Colonel Enderby ground his teeth together
in a sudden fury  " which obliges me to
demand a promise from you. Promise me,
Jessie, that you won't dance with that man,
Colvin, again to-night."

There was a moment's silence ; then
Jessie answered, gaily 

You are still splendid; but, unfortunately,
my dear Philip, you ask an absurdity.
Why should I not dance with the young
man again? I grant you he is a simple
creature; a little like that"  she shrugged
her white shoulders and spread out her
hands daintily  'barbarian, stupid, you
know. Still, he is nice-looking, and he can
dance, but dance "

Jessie nodded her pretty, curly head with
an air of profound appreciation.

The Colonel's expression remained sternly
determined.

"I cannot tell you why I ask this, my

VOL. III. K

dear wife," lie said quietly. " I would not
pain and disgust you by giving you my
reasons. But the fact remains, Jessie ; I'm
in no laughing mood, and this is no laughing
matter. Trust me  in this I know best
and give me your promise."

You become importunate," she answered,
looking at him curiously. " To be importunate
is to run the risk of being
tiresome. Dance with me yourself, then,
if I am surrounded with these melodramatic
and mysterious perils. It would be a little
commonplace, perhaps, to dance with one's
husband; but it would be safe enough
in any case. I must dance, you see ; and I
have refused the others."

Jessie laid her hand lightly on her husband's
arm.

Come," she said, smiling at him with a
touch of malice  " shall we go ? They are
beginning to play another valse. I must
dance, and to dance I must have a partner.
It lies between Mr. Colvin and you."

Philip w r as in a condition in which the
mind refuses to consider possible contingencies
; in which the whole tide of

impulse rushes headlong in one direction.
Careless of consequences, conscious only
of the immediate demand of the present, he
answered after but a moment's hesitation.

Come, then," he said  " I'll valse with
you, Jessie. As well that way as any
other!"

"Eh! but that is not a very courteous
way of accepting my favours," she responded,
a trifle taken aback. " Supposing
you dance badly ? It is a fearful little
experiment; but I resign myself. I am
ready  now ! "

In speaking the girl had made her way
back into the ballroom ; and in a minute
more they were out in the thick of the
spinning, swirling throng.

How will he stand it ? Faster and faster
grows the valse-time, faster and faster
Jessie's feet fly over the polished floor.
once round the big room, dodging, twisting,
.slipping in and out between the racing
couples, and the Colonel tries to halt.

Go on, go on, this is nothing ; you

dance superbly, Philip," whispers the girl.

And so on again ; who cares for the risk

and danger, the folly, the madness of it?
On again with a swift, delicious rush, motion
answering instinctively to the enchanting
lilt of the music ; on again, round the
wide, bright room. How will he stand it r
indeed ?

At the end of that second turn the
Colonel paused close to the door.

f Ah! it was exquisite!" cried Jessie,
radiant with pleasure. " Why have you
hidden your talents like this, Philip ? I
am delighted with you. I want to go on
for ever, and ever, and ever."

But Colonel Enderby had turned deathly
faint and ill. Though his wife was standing
beside him, her hand resting with a light
pressure on his arm, her laughing face
looking up into his, he could not see her
clearly. A mist seemed to come up before
him and blot out all material objects. Look
where he would, he could only see those two
figures again, the light and the dark one,
dancing, always dancing, till the whole
world turned with them as they turned.

He pushed his way back through the little
crowd standing about the doorway, into the

deserted room behind. This was horrible ;
he drew his hand across his eyes with a
fierce gesture. He went deadly pale, and
a cold sweat broke out over his forehead.
He was aware of an agony of pain, which
cut and stabbed at his heart, and seemed to
drive like sharp sword-thrusts right through
him. Jessie had followed him, pulling the
door to behind her. Hardly knowing what
he did, he clutched at her bare arms to save
himself from actually falling.

"Ah, good God!" he gasped, "I can't
bear it.  Promise me, Jessie, as I have loved
you  promise me what I asked, now."

The sudden weight thrown on her, made
the girl stagger for a moment ; but she
recovered herself again immediately. Her
rounded, white arms were like bars of iron
under Philip's desperate grasp. The
laughter had died on her lips and in her
eyes. Her face grew hard, set, almost old.
She was perfectly calm and quiet as she
looked hastily round for some help or way
of escape. It took her but a few seconds to
realize the full meaning of the situation.
"Philip," she said, in a low, incisive

voice, "if you are going to be ill you must
come away. People w r ill see you here."

Exerting all her strength, she half led,
half dragged her husband across to a door
at right angles to the bow-window. Disengaging
one hand, she opened it, and,
setting her back against it to keep it open,
forced him to enter the room within ;  a
large dark library, with a faint smell of old
volumes and leather bindings pervading it,
in which, just now, all the furniture from the
other rooms had been huddled away, inmost
admired confusion, to make space for
the many guests. The door remained half
open, letting in a narrow shaft of light, that
slanted, sharp-edged and definite, across a
space of carpeted floor, and on to the chaos
of piled-up chairs and tables behind. The
mass of furniture, with its confused, half-discovered
shapes of familiar objects, had a
weird effect about it, forming as it did a
background to the graceful form of the girl,
in her shimmering ball-dress, and to that
of the man whom she supported.

Can you stand alone?" asked Jessie,
suddenly breaking the silence with her clear
tones.

She turned away, and with all her force
dragged a chair out from the stack of
furniture. Things slipped and fell away
behind it as she did so, with a rattle and
snap of dry breaking wood.

Sit down," she said.

Philip obeyed her mechanically.

He hardly knew what had taken place
during the last five minutes. The racking
pain, the sense of suffocation and faintness,
the penetrating physical misery, had
swallowed up all distinct consciousness.
Only when his wife turned and left him,
without another word, without a sign of
tenderness, did he realize the hideous thing
that had happened.

Jessie, Jessie!" he called aloud after
her, putting out his hands in the blind
darkness.

But there was no voice, no answer ; only
the clicking of the lock as the handle of
the door turned on the outside and it slipped
back into the catch, and the quick beat of
footsteps hastening away across the boarded
floor without.

Chapter IV.

MAN AND WIFE.

Circumstance is cruel to some people : and,
at the risk of appearing to deal in paradox,
I submit that circumstance was cruel to
Jessie Enderby. Under other conditions
society might have profited by her charm,
her brilliant and inexhaustible gaiety; and
never have dreamed of the lamentable wants
in her moral and spiritual constitution.
Just those demands happened to be made
upon her that she was unable to meet. Let
circumstance take the blame, in part at
least ; and let us spare the woman as much
as we may.

Her one impulse was to get away. When
the library door was fairly closed behind
her, she paused only for a moment; and

then turned and ran  as a scared child runs,
headlong, not daring to stay or look behind
it  across the room, down a long dim
corridor, and into the inner hall, whence
the main staircase leads to the upper part
of the house. Here Jessie stopped. She
was breathless ; half with the haste of her
own wild pace, half with a strong nervous
reaction, following the coolness and determination
she had shown during those
terrible minutes in the library. In her
whole life she had never experienced anything
like this before. She was wholly
possessed with a frantic rage and terror.

Across from the supper-room on the other
side of the outer hall, passing among the
strolling couples who had wandered out
from the ballroom, with his stiff, erect,
soldierly bearing, came Berrington, a tray
of glasses in his hand.

Jessie waited till he reached the foot
of the staircase, and then stopped him with
a sharp, imperative gesture.

Colonel Enderby is ill," she panted out,
in short, broken sentences  " ill in the
library. Go to him. Find Mr. Drake.

Don't stand there staring at me ; go to him,
I say ! "

Berrington looked at her in amazement.
Her face was blanched, her eyes wide open ;
she pressed her hands hard against her
heaving bosom.

Are you idiotic?" she cried passionately.
He is ill, I tell you  alone there, don't
you understand? Go to him."

Berrington set down his tray  regardless
of appearances  on the centre table in the
inner hall. His scarred face had a strange
expression on it ; he spoke almost convincingly.


You are coming with me, ma'am ? '

No, no. Why should I come ? I can't
come. Go yourself. You waste time. He is
alone in the dark there, I tell you."

Berrington turned away. He had never
been over and above fond of his mistress.

Left alone, the girl flung herself down on
the lowest step of the wide staircase. She
did not cry; but she rocked her body backwards
and forwards, and clenched her hands
in a perfect paroxysm of passion. We all
have known, I suppose, the blank, hopeless

fury of childhood  kindled, perhaps, by
some very trivial disappointment, prohibition,
or mischance  when the dumbly
raging little soul dashes itself against the
hard walls of fact, and falls back bruised,,
bleeding, trembling, only to struggle up and
dash itself fruitlessly against them again
and again. This was what poor Jessie did
now. Her feeling was purely selfish. She
had not the smallest sense of obligation to
her husband, hardly of commiseration for
his suffering  only that dreadful furious
feeling, that her playthings were all broken f
and that nobody was there to mend them ;
that the world was spoilt to her.

After a while she grew quieter. The
dancing had ceased for a time, and people
were flocking out into the further hall and
dining-room. Jessie's natural vanity came
to her rescue ; she arranged her dress, which
had got disordered in her flight and struggle,
She pulled up her long gloves to hide the
ugly little marks that Philip's clutching
fingers had left on her white arms.  Those
marks were very terrible to her. She
dragged at her gloves, and almost tore them

in the effort to hide them completely from
her sight. She began to wonder whether
she looked very strange, whether people
would discover that something had happened
to her, and ask her questions. She felt very
small and deserted, too, sitting out on the
big quiet staircase alone, with nobody to take
care of her. She began to get a trifle shy.
Jessie troubled with shyness w T as indeed a
novelty ! She could not make up her mind
to start off by herself across the outer hall
there, where there were such a lot of people ;
it would look so odd, so awkward.

She shifted her position a little  sat on
the corner of the step ; and, leaning her
back against the wall, tried to appear quite
unconcerned, as though she was merely
waiting for an absent partner. All these
arrangements, and the new sensations which
dictated them, quite absorbed the girl's
attention.

A shrill voice suddenly interrupted both
her thoughts and manoeuvres.

"Why, Mrs. Enderby, what are you
doing ? Are you sitting out ? Well, if I
sat out, I should get some gentleman to si

out with nie. I shouldn't think you would
have much difficulty in getting some gentleman
to sit out with you. Here is my
cousin, Mr. Vandercrup. Well, if he was
not wandering around with me just now, I
believe he would be perfectly delighted to
sit out with you. But where is your
husband gone to ? I don't see him anywhere.
 Colonel Enderby's the most devoted
husband I ever saw, Lewis. I often
tell my husband I wish he was as devoted
as Colonel Enderby is. Why, now, there is
Sokeington. Sokeington, here is Mrs. Enderby
sitting out all alone. You come and
talk to her. I want to take Lewis to seethe
family portraits. We can see them very
well now the room is empty.  Well, now,
Mrs. Enderby, I have provided you with
somebody to sit out with. Good-bye."

So saying, Mrs. Waterfield kissed the
tips of her fingers ; and, wheeling round the
somewhat reluctant Vandercrup, bore him
away to improve his mind by the study of
the defunct Enderbys.

Jessie looked after her with a very mutinous
expression of face. She hated Mrs.

Waterfield ; but then, alas ! she hated so
many things just now.

Lord Sokeington sat down on the stairs,
one step above her, so as to give comfortable
room to his long legs. His cousin by
marriage, Mrs. Waterfield, often appeared
to him a trifle too forthcoming ; he did not
greatly admire her taste : but, being naturally
very amiable and indolent, it was his habit
to accept any situation in which he happened
to find himself, without getting into
a fuss or attitude of rebellion over it.

Well, here I am, Mrs. Enderby ; left on
your hands, you see. You must be good
enough to do your best to put up with me."

Jessie turned upon him such a pretty, pouting,
half-angry, wholly appealing countenance
that the young man was quite overcome
by it.

You look tired," he said kindly r . " Is
there anything I can do for you ? "

I have been frightened," she answered
quite simply. " I should be so glad if you
would get me some supper."

Lord Sokeington smiled. The juxtaposition
of ideas seemed to him quaint ; but

he expressed the greatest willingness to
procure the young lady all that she desired
in the way of supper. He conveyed her
across to the dining-room, found a comfortable
place for her, and ministered with quite
paternal solicitude to her material necessities.

Eh, Jessie, there you are ! " cried Jack
Enderby, suddenly catching sight of her.
That's right. I was half afraid we'd seen
the last of you too, and that would be a
pity  eh, Sokeington, wouldn't it ? Drake
tells me Philip's got tired of ifc all and gone
off to bed, lazy fellow. Well, I must be
moving. G-lad I saw you, Jessie. I was
half afraid there might be something wrong."

Under the combined influences of supper
and of Jack's speech  which seemed to
have a comfortably commonplace quality
about it  Jessie shook off the lingering-effects
of her fright. No doubt Philip
was better ; there was nothing very serious
the matter with him. Jessie began to
revive ; began to be entertaining ; began to
ruffle her charming feathers, so to speak,
and turn her bright eyes merrily and fearlessly
on her surroundings again. Perhaps,

the playthings were not all broken
yet ! A rather daring spirit of gaiety returned
upon her. Half an hour later she
was valuing as light-heartedly as ever with
Charlie Colvin in the bright ballroom. Ah !
dear world, when we find you are not spoilt,
after all, how delicious it is !

But fate had ordained that Jessie's peace
of mind should be sadly shaken again before
many hours were over.

The grinding of wheels, the red glare of
carriage-lamps, the metallic rattle of bits
and stamp of horses standing till they were
fretted by the frosty air, had all ceased
outside the great square house at Bassett
Darcy. The last Tullingworth cab, looking
for all the w T old like some gigantic
black beetle, had crawled away across the
snowy park towards the sleeping village on
the upland above. The night of Augusta
Enderby's social triumph had passed away,
with all its mingled emotions ; its pleasures
and regrets ; its satisfactions, disappointments,
and stupidities ; its stale jokes, old
scandals, new heart-burnings. The dust that
had whirled and danced for so many hours,

along with the human dancers, was settling
down upon the broad bare floors again. The
spacious rooms were empty ; the flowers
hung limp and withering in the close, hot-air.
Yawning servants moved to and fro,
gossiping lazily, putting out the failing lights,
clearing away the unsightly tokens of the
finished feasting.

The glory had departed, all the fun and
frolic, the music and the movement, were
over and done with ; and the pallid winter
dawn  dim and joyless as the eyes of a
dying man  was growing along the eastern
horizon, above the level stretches of the
grass park, when Jessie Enderby  her
pretty face wan, her dainty dress torn, her
gloves soiled, the freshness gone out of
her garments, and the thoughtless pleasure
out of her heart  came unwillingly, slowly,
along the passage, and entered the large
blue bedroom over the hall.

It was the same room in which old
Matthew Enderby died, little more than a
year ago. The great four-post bed, with its
gloomy, stuff curtains, still occupied its old
position. The same old-fashioned mahogany

VOL. III. L

furniture still stood in solid dignity against
the walls ; and these latter were still hung
with a style of wall-paper which, thank
goodness, is rapidly becoming a relic of
a former dispensation in the matter of
house decoration. Stripes of formless and
incomprehensible, blue-black roses, surrounded
with violently green leaves, alternated
w T with stripes of equally formless and
incomprehensible trellis work in two shades
of desolating grey. It was not an encouraging-apartment
at the best of times, and unless
the house happened to be unusually full,
Mrs. Jack refused to make use of it at all.

As Jessie came wearily into it now, the
room had unquestionably a most forbidding
aspect. The fire had burned down to a
handful of smouldering cinders in the grate.
The shutters stood open, and the curtains
were drawn back, letting in the first livid
glimmer of the coming day.

The girl set her candlestick down on the
table at the bottom of the bed; and thou
glanced about her with a quick nervous
shudder in the ghostly half light. She
looked very young, very slender, like some

delicate flower blanched and wilted by rough
rain and wind, as she stood there in her
.crumpled ball-dress.

For a minute or so she waited silently ;
then growing fear got the better of her.

u Philip ! Are you here, Philip?" she
cried, softly and hurriedly.

Colonel Enderby came forward out of the
dusky corner of the large room. He stopped
at the other end of the table by the foot of
the bed, and stood looking at his wife. He
still wore his evening clothes. His face was
old and haggard, and showed almost as
livid and ghastly as the glimmering window
behind him, in the wavering light of Jessie's
candle, as he watched her. His lips were
drawn and stiff; he had a difficulty in
speaking.

You are very late in coming, Jessie,"
he said at last.

"I stayed to the end," she answered,
and then Augusta kept me a long while."

The corners of Jessie's round mouth
went down ; the rare tears came into her
eyes, and ran over her pale cheeks.

"Augusta has said something wicked tome,"

she went on. " She made me
ashamed."

The girl looked up at her husband with
the frankest trust in her pretty piteous
face.

I was never ashamed before," she
sobbed  " never, never in all my life."

The hours of waiting had been heartbreaking
to Colonel Enderby. Desertion,
cruelty, disobedience were incomprehensible
to his faithful spirit. Jessie had deserted
him basely, she had been cruel. He could
not blink the truth, agonizing as it was
to him to admit it. Then, this thing had
not been done in a corner. Drake and
the doctor, in any case, and his servant 
possibly half the neighbourhood, by this
time  knew that he had come near dying
in one room while his wife was dancing in
the next. His pride was cut to the quick.
Pain we bear silently by ourselves is almost
ease, compared with the pain we experience
when others look on with surprise and
comment and pity. Jessie had done him
a terrible injury. Now, as he stood watching
her, he asked himself sternly, Should it

be peace or war?  and answered that for
war there was surely cause enough.

She said to me something coarse, and
wicked. At first I did not understand her ;
but she explained  she left me in no doubt."

Jessie all the while looked up with that
same straightforward demand for sympathy.

What do I care for one man more than
another? I only wanted to dance. As to
that stupid boy  oh, I can't talk about it !
It is shameful ! shameful ! "

The girl put her hands over her eyes
and sank down in a sad indistinct heap on
the floor.

"You didn't mean that, Philip, when
you asked me to promise you ? You could
not be so cruel as to think anything bad,
like that, of me ? I only wanted to dance.
I would have danced all night with you
if if "

Her voice was lost in the storm of her
weeping. Flesh and blood could not stand
it. The Colonel came across the little
space that divided them, and raised up the
slight bowed figure. Yes, it must be peace,
after all.

cc

Before God, Jessie," lie said, "I have*
never doubted you iu this matter. You
have been thoughtless  "

He paused a moment. To tell her what
she had been was to embark in a very ugly
statement. Philip loved her too well, after
all ; he could not bring himself to utter it.

I have never doubted that in thought
and word and deed you are as pure as the
day."

The girl flung her arms round his neck
and pressed her face against his shoulder,
sobbing.

"Comfort me, Philip; comfort me. I am
so miserable, and nobody is kind but you."

The same hatred of discomfort and trouble
which had caused Jessie to leave her husband
now brought her back to him. It was
all selfish, alas ! and yet the Colonel could
not resist it. Sadly, and with a knowledge
that there must be a blemish for ever on that
which had been most precious to him, but
still honestly and tenderly, he forgave her.
How, indeed, could he do otherwise, as she
clung to him in that heart-breaking passion
of tears generated in part by physical exhaustion

after her long night of dancing ;
in part by the shock and terror of his illness;
and in part, perhaps, by blind groping
towards fuller life of that soul-gerry  to
quote Dr. Symes  quickened into movement
by the hitherto unknown sense of
shame ;  how, I say, could he do otherwise ?
He felt dumbly that this was a crisis in
Jessie's history. Far be it from him, the
man w T ho loved her supremely, to break the
bruised reed or quench the smoking flax.

He did not even try to improve the
occasion by stating his pardon in so many
words. She was excited, overwrought, in
want of rest. With gentle clumsy fingers
Philip helped the pretty quivering creature
off with her tumbled finery ; helped her to
bed; laid the bed-clothes softly up over
her : and then, worn and broken by pain
and illness as he was, sat down by the
bedside in the chill, grey dawning, and held
her small cold hands in his, soothing and
petting her as a woman might, till the
bitter sobs grew less frequent and convulsive,
and died down in a little pensive
murmur now and then.

Philip, you are very good ; I love you,"
she whispered.

The Colonel bent over and kissed her.
That kiss ratified the treaty of peace.

Thank you, my darling," he said, " for
those sweet words."

Presently she spoke again, still holding
his hand, and moving her fingers over the
palm of it restlessly.

We will not stay here ; w r e will go
home tomorrow T , and forget all these dreadful
things, and be happy. We used to be
so happy at first in the summer-time."

To poor Colonel Enderby his wife's
speech w r as infinitely pathetic. Alas ! the
summer-time of their love and of his life,
too, was gone past recall. He wondered
whether he had not been guilty of a fatal
weakness and irremediable error. If he
had stuck to his profession, if he had not
so humoured Jessie ; if he had taken her
out into the rough and tumble of life, and
made her submit more thoroughly to the
ordinary conditions of wifehood; lived for
himself and for his duty, treating her as
an adjunct merely  a very exquisite one, it

is true, but an adjunct still  might lie not
have saved both her and himself?  In his
consuming tenderness for her, he had left
her utterly undisciplined, and now  now,
perhaps, it was all too late.

Wrung by a sudden perception of his own
great folly, Philip Enderby groaned aloud.

Jessie reared herself up on her elbow.

It won't happen again, Philip," she
cried.

The Colonel turned to her gently. The
tears came into his eyes. He was to
blame ; he had been culpably weak and easy
with her, and so done her a wrong. The
thought made him speak very gently to her.

What won't happen again, my pretty
one ? " he asked.

Why  why  you know," she said, her
eyes wide with alarm. " It was terrible ;
I could, not bear it. You are better, Philip ? "

He looked at her for a moment in silence.
His head sank on his breast.

Jessie, Jessie, have you no mercy? " he
cried. " Will you never understand ? "

The girl dropped back against the pillows,
and began to sob again bitterly.

Oh, don't scold me. I was getting
happier. Please don't scold me," she
moaned.

There was a silence. He had made his
choice long ago ; he could Maine no one ;
he was the author of his own fate. Philip
Enderby rallied all the stoicism that was
in him. He determined to accept the inevitable,
and play his part like a man. He
turned to his wife and spoke.

I cannot tell. "We must take what
comes," he said. "If it happens again,.
God helping me, you shall not see it
happen. Will that satisfy you, Jessie ? "

Jessie put out her hand and stroked his
cheek.

"You are very good, Philip," she said
again. "Will you stay there by me?
Then I think, perhaps, I should fall asleep."

Chapter V.

Balaam's ass speaks.

It would be very pleasant, about this period,,
to throw away the scalpel, and shut up the
moral dissecting-room, with all its ugly
sights, all its humiliating revelations of the
weakness, disease, and incompleteness of
fallen humanity : all its sad lessons learnt
from the examination of things once lovely,
but which have gone wrong, and are lovely
no longer  useful only as warnings and
advertisements, examples of insidious and
all-pervading moral and mental obliquity.
Pleasant to forget that excess of one quality
implies defect of another  to forget that your
generous man will almost certainly prove
unjust, your just man harsh and unimaginative
; that sweetness of temper goes hand
in hand with want of heart, and the desire

to please with paltry vanity ; that truelove
will be weighted with weakness and
jealousy ; commonsense stultified by lack
of zeal ; and enthusiasm prone to degenerate
into fanaticism and hard indifference to
the claims of opponents.

It would be so pleasant to turn our backs
on all this distressing knowledge  knowledge
which makes simple and direct action
almost impossible, which complicates every
emotion, modifies every conclusion, teaches
one to see a blemish in the fairest face, and
to detect seeds of folly and incapacity in
the noblest character.  Pleasant to turn
our backs on all this, to lock up the ,
with its melancholy secrets ;
and go away to fresh open places, where
the wind rushes up from the sea, and the
gulls laugh overhead in the sunshine ;
while the bees murmur as they dive into
the purple heather-bells, and the rabbits
play in and out among the gnarled grey
roots of the gorse ; and the fat w T lite flowers
of the bladder-campion bordering the cliff-edge
nod gently and fearlessly  as one who
is on excellent terms with both parties 

first down to the wrinkled sea below, and
then up to the clear sky above. Why
should w r e bother ourselves with all this
dreary learning, w r hen the world out-of-doors
calls to us with sw T feet sights and wholesome
voices, and an endless spectacle of fecundity
and beauty? It would be more profitable,
surely, to learn of liberty from the wind and
the w 7 lite-winged sea-gulls ; of happy labour
from the homeward-bound bee, flying low
from the weight of his honey-bags ; and of
happy leisure from the soft brown rabbits
gambolling together among the furze, and
ragwort, and bracken ?

Unfortunately, however, this is only one
side of the picture. If it were not so, one
imagines that only born i former and detractors,
born lovers of the unsavoury, would
ever study the ways of men at all. All
pure high-minded persons would abjure the
society of their kind; and seek salvation
in solitude, in caves of the earth, in forests,
and deserts, and mountains.

But, in point of fact, the other side of
the picture is evident enough too.  Great
black spiders sit in the doorways of their

little tunnels, lined with silver threads, there
among the heather flowers, and lay cruel
hungry hands on the bee, honey-bags and all,
just as he, in sober, business-like fashion, is
setting off to his hive. The red fox, with
his shrewd merry face, comes out of the oak
wood, across the valley yonder, in the dewy
gloaming; and nips the tender, shrieking
rabbit in his neat white teeth, just as it is
skipping down into its burrow. Even the
gulls themselves are foul greedy feeders; and
have by no means a delicate consideration
for the sensibilities of individual herrings or
mackerel. Out-of-doors, on the breezy cliff
and in the green T good, pain, injustice,
tragedy, are rife too. Bears have not yet
ceased to be carnivorous, and developed
straw-eating tendencies ; and the weaned
child will still be safer away from the
immediate vicinity of the cockatrice den.
For those unfortunate persons, then, who
are cursed with a necessity to look below
the surface, and haunted with an insatiable
desire to see things as they really are, the
moral dissecting-room is hardly a more
disturbing place than the seashore or the

moorland. And so, reader, after this fruitless
attempt to escape from our own shadows,
we may as well pick up the scalpel, and go.
hack humbly to science, civilization, and
human obliquity again.

The example of human obliquity immediately
under consideration is Mrs. Murray.
That worthy lady, some few days after the
Bassett ball, had reason to believe her
daughter Cecilia had received a long letter
from Dr. Symes. To say that this interested
her is to put the matter very
mildly ; she was on the tiptoe of expectation.


Cecilia had been silent and pre-occupied
all day ; she had appeared to avoid being
alone with her mother. Mrs. Murray
waited, watched, hinted, alluded in conversation
to subjects which might offer a
good excuse for revelations, if Cecilia was
that way inclined.

But Cecilia was not expansive. She
devoted the morning to Johnnie's lessons,
and the afternoon to her district, bordering
on the brick fields. After tea she disappeared
for a considerable length of time.

When at last she came back into the bleak r
chintz-covered sitting-room, Mrs. Murray's
anxiety to know had reached a height at
which concealment was no longer possible.
The good lady was consumed with a desire
for information ; still, with all her courage,
she hardly knew how to begin.

She sank back in her chair, folded her
hands above her large waist, and watched
her daughter with hard, eager, twinkling-eyes,
as the latter, with a great basket full
of coarse flannel and calico, sat down by
the centre table and began, not very deftly,
piecing together some under-garments destined
for the unhappy dwellers in the back
streets and by the grimy canal wharfs.

Cecilia fitted in the sleeve of an unbleached
shirt several times, wrong way up, having
a singular incapacity for mastering the
intricacies of double guests. She looked
troubled and tired ; her forehead was full of
lines, as she held the incomprehensible arm-hole
up close against the lamp, turning it
this way and that, and blinking her eyes
over it in hesitating perplexity.

For some time Mrs. Murray sat observing

her ; till, at last irritation getting the better
of prudence, she spoke out boldly.

Cecilia," she said, " you look deplorable.
You've got something on your mind."

The suddenness of the address made Mrs.
Farrell start, and effectually drove the
difficult question of placing guests back
into the obscurity from which it had begun
to show signs of emerging.

You have something on your mind,"
continued the elder lady. "It is no good
denying it. You cannot deceive your
mother, Cecilia. I ask no questions. I
never demand confidence when it is not
freely offered me :  though, considering the
way in which I have devoted myself to you,
and in which I have considered your interests,
it might not seem unreasonable to
some people that I should be confided in.
But I trust I have learnt to labour for others
without hope of reward  to cast my bread
upon the waters. Ah, well ! "

Mrs. Murray closed her eyes and sighed
profoundly.

Cecilia took a couple of pins from between
her lips, and stuck them into the shirt-sleeve

VOL. III. M

at random, pricking her fingers sharply in
her general confusion.

u I meant to speak to you, mother," she
answered; "hut I wanted time to think,
and I couldn't speak before Johnnie."

Johnnie isn't here now."

Mrs. Farrell laid down her work, and
leant her elbow on the table, shading her
eyes with her hand. Her heart beat very
quickly. She was afraid of her mother.

"Dr. Symes began telling me something
the other evening," she said. " We were
interrupted. I did not see him again, and
I hardly understood what he was alluding
to. I had a letter from him to-day."

"Well, well, go on," cried Mrs. Murray,
as Cecilia paused.

It was a very kind letter ; he  he asked
me to marry him."

Mrs. Murray surged up out of her chair,
and precipitated herself upon her daughter ;
oversetting the work-basket in her haste,
scattering wax, tape, and scissors, and sending
cotton-reels spinning over the floor.

"Oh, my child, my child!" she cried.
"Thank God, my prayers are answered. I

shall see you rich, well cared for, successful,
after all ! Dear, good, excellent man !
Never mind if he is not of very good family.
At your age, Cecilia, a marriage of reason
is what we must look to. Comfort, my
dear, wealth, absolute wealth, and a very
good position. Johnnie's future secured.
You have written ; you have answered him ? "

Mrs. Farrell released herself gently from
her mother's embrace. She had grown
very pale, and trembled as she replied : 

"Yes, I wrote this morning. I posted
the letter myself."

Thank God ! " murmured Mrs. Murray,
devoutly, again. " Faith, Cecilia  faith is
a great power. Believe and labour  as I
have ; spare no pains, keep the end in
view  the reward is sure. That's a very
nice house indeed in Brummell Square ;
plenty of room for us all, with a little
management. Did he make any statement
about settlements ? We must go carefully
into all that, you know. Mrs. Latimer tells
me his income is large, really large. Ah,
well  how short-sighted we are ! That
business with Colonel Enderby was a disappointment

to me last spring, I don't deny.
But Providence watches over the widow and
the orphan. Here you might have been at
this moment, if all one hears is true, with
him on your hands, dying : instead of which,
my dear, a prospect, an excellent, respectable,
dignified prospect is before you ! As I
say, never mind about family ; we can't have
everything. You'll bring your husband
family, you know. It is better those things
should be divided, I think ; it "

Stop, stop, mother ! " cried Cecilia
Farrell, hoarsely.

She stood up.

You have misunderstood me."

Hey  what's this?" exclaimed the
elder lady, with a rapid change of manner.
"Don't stand there looking like a madwoman.
If you're going into hysterics, say
so, and I'll get a jug of water. Cecilia, I'm
ashamed of you ! For goodness sake, be
sensible ! "

Nevertheless there was something in
her daughter's appearance which distinctly
alarmed Mrs. Murray. She seized her by
the arm, and shook it with a sudden violence.

There, there, speak, can't you ? Speak,
and don't be a fool, Cecilia ! "

Oh, mother, forgive rne ! Pray don't
be angry with me. Perhaps it is selfish;
but I can't marry him."

Mrs. Murray looked a very unpleasant old
woman as she answered. She leant forward,
and peered into Cecilia's pale agitated face,
as though she would have liked actually to
torture the truth out of her.

Don't dare to tell me you have refused
him?"

Cecilia bowed her head in assent. There
was a silence of some few minutes, and then
Mrs. Murray spoke in a terrible voice.

"You are a base, ungrateful woman;
you are a bad mother and a bad daughter !
I have borne with your stupidity and
awkwardness, your mulish obstinacy, all
these years. I have spent my money and
time and affection upon you, and this is the
return I get. Do you want to kill me?
Do you want to ruin us ?  Look here,
Cecilia, you have got to give way, to change
your mind. You say you have written.
Well, I am going to write too. I am going

to explain and apologize. I am going to
say that you were taken by surprise ; that
your reply was ill-considered ; that you
regret it. I'll apologize ; I'll do anything,
say anything, but let that letter stand. Do
you hear ? "

Mrs. Murray had often had cause to
lament her daughter's lamentable want of
spirit ; at this juncture her daughter's spirit
fairly confounded her.

You may spare both yourself and me
that humiliation, mother," said Cecilia,
quietly. " I have given Dr. Symes a reason
for my refusal which renders any renewal
of his offer impossible."

What reason ? "

That I cannot tell you."

She was still trembling, but no longer
with fear. A strange excitement had taken
possession of Mrs. Farrell. She held herself
almost proudly.

Cecilia," cried Mrs. Murray, in a sort
of amazement, " do 3011 intend to defy
me?"

"Yes; I am afraid I do intend to defy
you, in a w r ay," she answered. " There are

claims on me, mother, which stand even
before yours and Johnnie's. I must keep
my own self-respect. I will not sell myself
for any one's money. I am sorry that
Johnnie should miss the chance of advantages
that he might have had ; and that
3 t ou should be deprived of ease and comfort
which you would have enjoyed  but I can't
help it. I cannot sell myself. My life was
spoilt years ago, by breaking off a marriage
in obedience to your wishes, mother ; it
shall not be spoilt a second time, by making
one to satisfy them. We are poor ; we must
go on being so. We are obscure; well, I
am perfectly willing to be obscure still.
Johnnie will have to make his own way in
the world; he must do it then. Haven't
I some rights as well as other people ?
This right, at all events, to refuse absolutely
to degrade myself for the good of my family ?
All my life I have loved one man," cried
Cecilia, while her thin cheeks flamed and
her eyes were bright with sudden enthusiasm.
" I am nothing to him  nothing in
the world. If he sees me, it is with embarrassment,
perhaps even with dislike. It

does not matter. God forbid lie should
ever think of me in any other way. I am
not jealous of his wife ; I only want him to
be happy  happy his own w T ay, with her,
not with me. But I can't marry, mother ;
I will never marry. I have had enough of
that. Give up all idea of it. You have
called me obstinate  on this point I am
obstinate. You had better leave me alone."

Cecilia, still brave, still defiant, knelt
down on the floor, and began gathering the
scattered contents of the overturned work-basket
together. Almost for the first time
she had let herself go : and, for the moment,
her revolt filled her with a really magnificent
sense of freedom, of indifference, of superiority
to circumstance or criticism. She
could have set any number of guests, and
set them with faultless stitches, at that
moment.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Murray had slunk back
into her chair again, in an extra ordinary
state of perturbation. Balaam's sensations
when reproached by the ass must have
been mild compared with those experienced
by our friend Mrs. Murray, when her

daughter turned upon her in this very
unexpected manner. She was quite unnerved.
Genuine tears began to make their
way down over her rouged and powdered
cheeks ; her shrewdness and diplomacy
deserted her. She was a miserable sight,
as she sat there crying, shaking her poor,
worldly, old head  with its cap all awry 
and harsh-coloured hair puffed out with
such youthful archness over the ears, her
hard grasping face puckered up and
wrinkled, and the red in her carefully
organized complexion coming out in all the
wrong places.

Oh, I am a wretched, deserted, unhappy
old woman," she muttered. " It's a cruel
world ; everybody turns against you, at last.
You do your best for your children, and
then they throw it in your teeth, and tell
you you've spoilt their happiness for them.
Thirty, forty, fifty years you toil and moil
and fight for them ; and give them all the
chances that you can get hold of; and push
them on ; and try to make a position and
keep up appearances ;  and then they reproach
you. It's a hard, hard world ; there's

no help or mercy in it : and I'm a wretched,
unsuccessful, deserted old woman."

Cecilia rose from her knees, came over,
and stood by her chair.

Mother," she said gently, " I know you
have had a bitter disappointment ; but
there is something better worth living for
and thinking about than mere wealth and
position and getting on, you know. It is
not my jilace to remind you of this. You
must forgive me ; but I should be so glad to
comfort you, and I can't promise you those
things."

Cecilia paused ; trying, in her dumb,
groping way, to find adequate expression
for the thought that was in her.

Can't w r e forget the world's opinion 
it has brought us little beyond worry and
annoyance  and think of better and more
lasting things ?  of religion? I don't mean
merely going to church and using certain
recognized phrases ; but religion of the
heart ;  a real giving up of our will to
God's ; a real submission to His ordering ;
a real faith and trust, and hope  not
for reward here in the way of money or

advantages ; but of reward of a purer kind,
hereafter. And that not on account of our
own merits, but of His great mercy, who
gives us far more than we deserve.  I am
preaching to myself, mother, just as much
as to you. I am very faithless and dull. It
is so difficult to keep on every day striving
with one's own weak, sinful nature. Work
with me, mother; help and strengthen me.
I stand greatly in need of both."

An impatient smile broke through Mrs.
Murray's still falling tears.

"I believe you are sincere, Cecilia. You
are a good woman," she said : " but I never
met a good woman yet who didn't drivel at
times, as you are drivelling now. I have
my intellects still, I am thankful to say, and
there are some things I see very much more
clearly than you do. Do you suppose if one
has lived for this world till one is seventy,
one can turn round all of a sudden, at
seventy-one, and live for the other, and find
great consolation in doing it ? Changes are
not so easily made as that. It is ingrained,
my dear, by now. And then, after all, who
has any right to blame me ? I have only

wanted w r hat hundreds of people are born to,
and take just as a matter of course, as they
do the air or daylight, without any worrying
or scheming. I couldn't afford to be philanthropic
or religious before, and it's rather
late to begin now.  You say the Lord is
exceeding merciful. "Well, then, perhaps
He will make allowances for a woman with a
small jointure and a large family of plains
daughters. I don't know.  Ring, will you,
my dear, and tell Eliza to put a couple of
table-spoonfuls of brandy in my gruel tonight."


How far the signing of this declaration
of independence by Cecilia Farrell brought
her permanent relief, I cannot say. That
it increased her mother's respect for her,
and caused the latter to leave her alone in
future, in questions matrimonial, is more
than probable. But I am inclined to
imagine that a lady of Mrs. Murray's
temperament, if she abstained from one
form of tyranny, would be disposed to
balance abstinence in one direction by
excess in another. To her self-devotion,
and the poor return made to her by her

ungrateful children, she did very frequently
refer, both in public and private. Perhaps
her words did not carry any deep conviction
to the majority  in any case, we will
hope so.

Dr. Symes consoled himself with his
profession, and egg-shell china. Sometimes,
even, in that snug room of his, after dinner,
when his reading-lamp was lighted, and the
fire crackled pleasantly on the hearth, and
some interesting new scientific treatise lay
open before him, the doctor caught himself
speculating as to whether  in the Palace of
Truth  he might not congratulate himself
on having had an exceedingly lucky escape.

CHAPTER VI.

AFTER ALL, A REGRET.

Bertie Ames and Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay were
coming up the carriage-drive towards the
little red villa. They had been into Genoa.
Eleanor sauntered along slowly; she was
a little fatigued. In theory, she greatly
admired tram-cars as a levelling and democratic
institution ; hut in practice, the
noise, crowding, smell of Italian gin, and
general tendency toward expectoration endured
in these vehicles, gave her a headache,
and sorely tried her slightly fastidious
taste. It was a good step from the iron
gates to the villa, too; and though there was
a bracing crispness in the air, the February
sunshine was hot and dazzling. The row
of crooked fir trees threw blue, sharp-edged
shadows along the roadway. The waste

spaces of rough, grass on either side were
starred with the flowers of the anemone of
the Apennines  white, scarlet, bine, lilac,
blush pink, and violet  an almost endless
variety of delicate shades of colour. In her
hands, along with her parasol, Eleanor
carried a big bunch of Eoman hyacinths
and camellias, bought at a picturesque
flower-stall in the angle of a great, stately
palace in the Via Nova. The spring had
come ; not the pale, tentative, pensive
spring of our northern climate, but the
keen, brilliant, daring spring of the south.

Eleanor sauntered on silently up the road,
Bertie Ames beside her. To tell the truth,
he was not thinking very much about his
companion just then. He was engaged with
his own reflections, and entertained himself
by humming a few bars from the opening
scene of " Faust," sotto voce, as he moved
lightly yet lazily along.

At the turn of the road, Eleanor sat clown
on a sloping slab of rock; she wanted to
rest a minute, and it was pleasant hereafter
the noise and dust of the tram. Across
the road, in front of her, a great fig-tree 

whose twisted roots clung round the broken
rock in among which it grew in many serpentine
folds and convolutions,  spread a pale,
grey network of smooth, gleaming branches,
knobbed with the already formed fruit,
against the distant masses of deep wood
and steep purple hill.

Bertie crossed the road, leaned his elbows
on the natural wall of rock, just below
the big fig-tree, and gazed away over the
brown vineyards and the town, showing
sharp and clear in the sunlight, to the
far-off curving coast-line, and the glittering
snow-mountains in the west.

His back w T as tow T arts her. Eleanor felt
a wee bit neglected, somehow. It made
her think.

Nearly a month had passed since their
engagement. It had been a pleasant month
on the whole. Bertie was affectionate,
attentive : and even when he laughed at
her, which he did pretty frequently, there
was an underlying tenderness in his manner,
which made it impossible for her to resent
his sarcasms very warmly. Bertie's conduct
had been entirely unexceptionable :

and yet she was not quite satisfied. This
engagement had not brought her all that
she had expected of it. There was a faint
flavour of disappointment in her mind after
all. Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay was one of those
ardent and generous persons who are liable
to make an exaggerated estimate of the
possibilities of human bliss ; and are slow to
learn that nothing in the world will bring
them all that they ask for that, to the end,
the vision and the hope are fairer than the
realization ever can be. She did not seem
to advance in her relation to Bertie, or to
get any nearer to him. There was nothing
to quarrel with in his manner or bearing
towards her : yet she was conscious of a wall
of separation between them. Whether the
defect of sympathy lay in herself or in her
lover she could not tell. Perhaps marriage
would set it all right ; but marriage seemed
still to hang in the offing, so to speak.
Bertie had made no further definite proposals.
He was very indolent ; he was willing
enough always to let things be, if the
said things were fairly comfortable.

Eleanor sat staring at the pale branches

VOL. III. N

of the fig-tree and the purple depth beyond,
and thinking of all this ;  thinking, too, of
the strangely different way of life she had
proposed to herself; of her friend the priest,
and the splendid ideal he had set before
her. Suddenly the sweet pathetic tones of
Bertie's tenor sounded in her ears. He was
singing softly to himself that lament for
lost youth, and love, and beauty, with which
the drama of Faust's fate and passion commences.


To Eleanor, it carried too much meaning.
She rose hastily, crossed the road,
and touched the young man on the
shoulder.

u Ah ! cousin Nell," he exclaimed, turning
to her with rather a forced smile, and
air of self-recollection : " I find my voice in
the spring, you see, as the small birds do :
or, rather, as the small birds would do, if
they had not all been killed or caged, long
ago, by those villainous bird-catchers. The
performance was not altogether pretty, was
it ? You did well to stop me."

Something in Bertie's speech  perhaps it
was that word cousin  jarred painfully

on his hearer. She took her hand off his
shoulder, and drew a step away.

Bertie had turned round. He leant his
back against the wall of rock and looked
quietly at her. His eyes had still, at
moments, that odd likeness to Malvolio's
which had formerly so disturbed Jessie
Enderby.

Eleanor looked back at him. There was
a fine sincerity in her steady gaze.

The last few weeks, since you came
back, have been very happy ones to me,
Bertie," she said, in a low voice. "I have
had a great deal of pleasure in them, such
as I had never expected to have again ; and
I suppose that has made me selfish. I have
let one day slip away after another, and
have neglected to think of anybody but myself
and you. We have done nothing
practical yet about Philip Enderby."

"No; quite true," replied Mr. Ames:
we have clone nothing practical yet about
Colonel Enderby. It is odd you should
mention him just now, because I happened
to be thinking about him. I had arrived at
the conclusion to let well or ill  whichever

it is  alone, and trouble myself no more
about Colonel Enderby or his wife either."

The sun struck curiously hot on Mrs.
Pierce-Dawnay's head. She tried to put
up her parasol. But the lace round the edge
of it caught in the points of the ribs ; and
it was some little time before she could
adjust it quite to her liking.

I am afraid I must ask you to trouble
yourself a good deal about Colonel Enderby
and his wife, all the same," she said. "I
am more anxious about them than ever. I
had just arrived at a conclusion, too : 
namely, that I shall not be able to rest till
you have seen Jessie. For your and my
sake, just as much as for theirs, it seems tome
imperatively necessary."

Bertie Ames shrugged his shoulders.

"My dear creature," he said, " why will
you always ask highly embarrassing things
of me ? Please remember, I am not in the
least given to knight-errantry. I don't feel
called upon to succour wounded heroes, or
rescue distressed damsels. It is not the
least in my line. I should make a horrible
boggle over it. I am not a professional fine-fellow

of the eleventh or twelfth century,
you know ; but an amateur of the latter end
of the nineteenth, with a deep respect for
my neighbour's small eccentricities, and a
mortal dread of putting myself in a ridiculous
position."

"Ah!" she cried a trifle impatiently;
that is all beside the point, Bertie. There
is no knight-errantry in the matter. It is
a question of humanity, of good feeling.
You have a power which may be employed
for the benefit of a man whom you respect,
and a woman, who  who "

Eleanor paused. It went against her
pride to state her deepest thought in words.

"A woman," she added gently, after a
moment, " whom you have  loved. Think
of them, Bertie ; and not of whether you
may be putting yourself to some small inconvenience
or not. Pray, pray, do as I ask
you to. It has been culpably self-indulgent
in me not to urge this on you sooner. I
know it is right ; I know it is for the best."

Mr. Ames was acutely uncomfortable,
as he looked down at the shining gravel.
He did not see how he could extricate

himself from his present difficult' without
behaving rather cruelly to the woman he
had asked to be his wife  the woman whom
he admired and liked most cordially ; whose
society he found stimulating and agreeable
in a very high degree. Yet he felt it incumbent
upon him to speak out, and let her
know the danger in which he stood.

Really, Nell," he said, " at times you
develop the most remarkable power of
getting one into a corner, and making one
stand and deliver. Listen, and I will
expound to you. Love, rightly considered,
is a state of mind. Being in that state of
mind, I apprehend it is eminently desirable
to remain in close vicinity to the person
who produced it ; lest, not having a legitimate
object on which to expend its energies,
the state of mind should begin expending
them upon some illegitimate one. I have
had more than enough of coveting my
neighbour's wife, heaven knows ! and am
very fully convinced of the futility of that
species of amusement ;  but I am not absolutely
fireproof, all the same. I do not
relish the prospect of undertaking this

mission unsupported, you know. Forgive
my putting it all so plainly before you,
Eleanor. Marry me at once, and then we
will go to England together, if you like."

As he ceased speaking, the young man
looked up. Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay's eyes
were full of a warm light, her cheeks flushed
with a dark rich bloom, her mouth was a
little open, as if in eager readiness to speak.
She was young, vivid, beautiful.

"Ah, you are delicious!" he cried, half
laughing. " You women are absurdly enchanting."


Eleanor turned away and walked on
hurriedly up the road. She was in a
tempest of feeling ; it was impossible to
answer him moderately just then.

Bertie Ames lingered a moment or two.
He threw back his head, flung up his
arms, and then let them drop at his sides
again. He hardly knew, perhaps, exactly
what he meant by the action, beyond a
sense that it was a general good-bye to a
good many things he had cared for. Then
he walked rapidly up the hot, glaring road
after his cousin.

Nell," he said, when he overtook her,
I have bungled atrociously, and offended
you. Please forgive arne."

Eleanor did not turn her head.

Do you really care the least about my
forgiveness ? " she asked.

Immensely," he answered. " It is
everything to me."

Then go to England."

She stopped, and looked at him somewhat
proudly.

I want no half-hearted affection, Bertie.
I can give you my whole heart, my whole
life  and I am not prepared to receive a
fraction in return for them. Go and see
Jessie ; go and do what you can for Colonel
Enderby ; and then come back to me if you
want to. Remember, you are still perfectly
free. I have told nobody of our engagement.
I abstained from doing so on purpose.
If you do not care to come back, you
can stay away w 7 with impunity. You are not
in any way compromised."

Do you take me for a scoundrel or an
idiot ? " he cried. " Of course I shall come
back again. But the conditions are rather

hard, Eleanor ; and I have a feeling against
this journey. It will bring bad luck to
somebody."

"If the bad luck is there, it will come
whether you go or not. You do not
speak with your usual good sense," she
answered.

She moved on up the ascent.

Will you go ? " she asked.

They had just reached the ending of the
road, and came on to the open space of the
terrace in front of the villa. The monkey,
who had been sunning himself on the wall,
seeing them approaching, scrambled down
and ran across on all fours to meet his
master, with strange chuckling cries of
pleasure and welcome. Bertie picked the
ugly, little creature up and fondled it as he
spoke.

"Yes, I will go by the mail train tonight.
I shall just have time to pack and
eat my dinner."

"Ah, to-night! That is very soon,"
exclaimed Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay, somewhat
aghast.

You have forced it on me, Cousin Nell.

I would rather get it over and done with.
But I warn you it will turn out badly."

He looked down at the monkey, and
gently patted its "wrinkled forehead.

"The devil, Malvolio," he said, " the
very devil."

There was a silence. Eleanor stood with
her head raised, looking away over the expanse
of purple sea. Bertie could see the
pure outline of her profile. It struck him
that she looked very handsome, very
intense, very sad.

You will be rather lonely here, Nell,
I am afraid," he remarked abruptly.

I shall not remain here, in any case,"
she replied. " I have given my landlord a
month's notice. The little red villa has
become a hateful place to me. It is full
of ghosts. Every room is haunted by tormenting
memories ; every chair and table
reminds me mockingly of scenes in which
my weakness, mistakes, ill-founded hopes,
endless vacillations play a part. The
curtains rustle with laughter at my follies.
Faces look out of the mirrors over my
shoulder, and taunt me with the remembrance

of broken ideals and trusts betrayed.
If we meet again, Bertie, we will meet
somewhere else, not here."

She spoke with a ring of feeling which
was very penetrating.

Mr. Ames stroked the monkey meditatively.


Poor little red villa ! It is tabooed,
then?" he said. " Well, it has seen its
share of the human comedy in the last
two years, if it never saw it before 
which, all things considered, is improbable.
I could imagine the house would take a
long sleep when your little menage vacates
it, Nell  willingly take a rest, and try to
recover its tone before it suffers violence
from another incursion of us poor puppets
of circumstance. Meanwhile, I own I shall
be just as well satisfied to think of you in
rather more lively surroundings. The influences
here, no doubt, have become
peculiar : you will be safer away from them.
But don't start any new idea, Eleanor,
please, till you have seen me again. Don't
let any high-flown, sentimental hankering
after contracting a matrimonial alliance

with the Church, for instance, take possession
of you. That I most definitely and
fundamentally object to."

Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay shook her head with
a sigh.

You needn't be afraid, Bertie. That
dream is past and over, alas ! like so many
more. Come in ; you have not too much
time, and we will eat our dinner in peace
before we part. It is the last meal we
shall eat together here ; perhaps the last we
shall ever eat together at all."

Bertie pushed the monkey up on to his
shoulder. It sat there with its knees up to
its nose, and with one long, skinny, brown
hand clutching tightly at the collar of his
coat. The young man came close to his
cousin, and put his arm round her waist.

Come, come, my dear Nell," he said,
smiling, " don't let us make such a tremendous
tragedy of it. You play the part
of a haughty and exacting princess in
ancient legend, and set your lover dangerous
tasks to perform before you will listen to
him. Well, here the lover is going. He
obeys you  perhaps, against his better judgment

 but then, that should only give an
extra savour of sweetness to his obedience.
You have your way. What more, in the
name of reason, do you want ? "

Something I shall never get, I fancy,
Bertie," she answered; and her lips quivered
a little as she spoke.

Chapter VII.

IN WHICH THE DOMESTIC FOWL PLAYS A PART.

Has it ever happened to you, reader, in
some idle half-hour of a summer's morning,
to stand and watch the manners and customs
of a respectable, middle-aged hen, with a
brood of young chickens ?  to observe the
care, the anxious consideration with which
she treats her soft, callow, peeping family ;
the energy with which she scratches in nice
dry earthy places against the corner of a
stack of basins, or the rich, promise borders
of the manure-heap, or among the rank
grass round the water-bucket, to find them
succulent or stimulating morsels? Have
you heard the agitated ducklings with which
she calls any chick of too adventurous or
wandering a spirit ; or answers the cries of
one who, standing on tiptoe, with distended

beak and elongated neck, announces in shrill
and plaintive tones its inability to find its
way back to the protecting stuffiness of the
maternal wing? Does not this excellent
fowl seem to you a very embodiment of all
the characteristic maternal virtues ?

But, since the sun is warm, and the open
doorway of the clean wood-shed is a
pleasantly shady place to stand in, just
watch the behaviour of this diligent bird a
little longer. See, now, if a strange chicken
small, soft, and peeping as any one of her
own brood  comes towards her, how her
wings droop and her tail spreads into a great
aggressive fan, while every separate feather
stands out fierce and bristling !  how her
hard curved beak is darted down at the unhappy,
shrieking, fluttering intruder ; and
how, unless the human spectator comes to
the rescue, the poor, little wretch is shaken,
pecked, maltreated till the tiny life is nearly
or quite frightened out of its quivering
body. Is this a true embodiment of
maternal character too ? It would be invidious
to pronounce on such a point. I
leave it to you, reader.

Jessie Enderby's husband had forgiven
her. And yet, because our actions have a
prolonged force in them  like those vibrations
of the air which continue a great while
after the voice which produced there is
again silent  our young lady found the
little world in which she moved rather a
different place to her ever after that ill-starred
night at Bassett Darcy.

The story, both of the serious nature of
Colonel Enderby's illness, and of his wife's
apparent indifference to his condition, leaked
out, of course, as such stories will : leaked
out, too, clothed in the darkest of colours,
and with a small army of exaggerations,
misconstructions, ungraceful hints and suggestions
following in its train. A good
many persons did not scruple to register
their conviction that Mrs. Enderby was a
shameless, little flirt ; and while they expressed
pity for her husband, added that
they themselves, in like case, would have
behaved very differently. A man should
know when to put down his foot. Not to
know when to do so, is to write yourself
down either an ass or a poltroon. Bertie

Ames had told Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay, long
ago, that Jessie would never conduct
herself in a way provocative of the censure
of society ; but then he had neither taken
into account the possibilities of adverse circumstances,
or the almost unlimited power
of misreading evidence possessed by the
average human being. Selfishness and
heartlessness by no means disqualify their
owner from making a good show in the
world. It was by bringing against her a
charge of which she was wholly guiltless,
that local society, in its small way, judged
pretty Jessie Enderby, and condemned her.
I do not wish to excuse her, or too easily
condone her evil-doings ; but I must maintain,
nevertheless, that she was convicted
on entirely wrong grounds.

Some three weeks after the Bassett bal],
she received one morning an urgent note
from Mrs. Colvin, begging her, if it lay in
her power, to pay the writer a visit early
that same afternoon. The request surprised
the girl. Late events had made the
Colvin name somewhat unwelcome to her.
But the day was bright : and it was a little

VOL. III. O

dull at home  Jessie fancied there had been
a slight falling off in the number and
cordiality of her visitors just lately. Then,
too, she really liked Mrs. Colvin, whose
large, gentle, motherly presence gave her
an agreeable sense of repose and security.
She decided to go ; though she also decided
not to mention the matter to her husband.
Philip had grown a trifle fussy and particular,
she thought. Collisions were disagreeable
; and our young lady objected
supremely to that which is disagreeable.

Jessie had learnt to drive herself. And it
was with a certain quickening of the pulse
and exhilaration of the spirits, that she
trotted the handsome pair of carriage-horses
along the high-road ; swept them round the
curve under the railway bridge, scattering
dogs and children and lounging artisans 
loafing about till their afternoon's work
should begin  to right and left ; and then
sent them on up the wide, main street of
the pretty little town. Light natures like
our heroine's, meet with manifold consolations
by the w 7 ay. They can live on the
surface ; and the surface, at all events, can

generally be kept fresh and smart and
pleasant to the eye.

"Put the horses up at the Prince's,
William," she said, standing for a moment
on the clean pavement, and giving herself
sundry little pats and smoothing to get the
set of her clothes just right. "And meet
me at Luckcock's Library at half-past four.
Ask for the afternoon letters, please ; and
see if there is anything for Colonel Enderby
at the station."

Mrs. Colvin received her guest very kindly.
She held Jessie's hand in her soft, steady
grasp a little longer even than courtesy
positively demanded, and looked at her
earnestly, with sweet, questioning, nearsighted
grey eyes.

It is kind of you to come to me at such
.short notice," she said.

Jessie smiled radiantly.

It is fine ; I had nothing to do ; I was
delighted," she answered.

Mrs. Colvin stood holding her guest's
hand, and looking into her brilliant face
with a sense of strangely conflicting feelings.
She had an accusation to bring,  and that a

painful one,  against this young creature.
She did not approve of Jessie ; and yet
the girl's youthful beauty filled her with a
yearning, wondering pity.

I am afraid you have been in some
anxiety about Colonel Enderby," she said.
I hope that your coming here this afternoon
shows he is better."

Oh, he is very much as usual," Jessie
answered, still smiling. " He has an
innocent mania about his farm, you know.
The farm was to make our fortune. But
he has been rather indolent both about the
farm and the fortune, perhaps, recently.
He has preferred the smoking-room or my
society. To-day, however, the farming-mania
appears to be in the ascendant again.
He told me he was going out to look at the
sheep. I like the sheep, too. They are
very worthy, well-meaning animals ; but
there is a certain sameness about them ;
it is possible to see enough of them. I was
very happy to come and see you instead."

A slight change came over the expression
of Mrs. Colvin's fair, elderly face. Decidedly
this was not one of her own simple good-hearted

chickens. It belonged to a very
different brood.

I am glad you can give such a reassuring
account of your husband," she said. "We
feared, from rumours which have reached
us, that he had been seriously ill on the
night of the ball at Bassett."

The subject was hardly an agreeable one
to Jessie Enderby ; but her blood was still
tingling with the healthy excitement of her
rapid drive. Like some wild, woodland
thing, she was sprightly and glad with the
quickening breath of the coming spring.
She answered lightly enough.

Ah ! every one is ill at times, I suppose ;
but it passes again. And when it is passed,
is it not best to forget ? "

Mrs. Colvin sighed.

You are very young, Mrs. Enderby,"
she said. " Later, it is not possible to
forget so easily. But come, sit down here.
I have something I want to tell you."

I hope it is something nice," observed
Jessie, parenthetically, as she rustled across
the room after her hostess, and seated
herself by her.

Jessie had always appreciated Mrs
Colvin, who struck her as a well-bred, comfortable,
soothing sort of person. But it is
extraordinary what a fund of moral courage
some of these large, soft, mild-looking
mothers are endowed with.

These clinging, dependent women,  who
lose their heads in a crowd, are utterly
unnerved by the noise and rush of a railway
station, faint at the sight of a wound, and
shrink away in helpless disgust and terror
before rough looks and coarse expressions, 
will still, on occasion, when their affections
are involved, manifest a daring disregard of
conventionalities in speech and action, that
would be a sheer impossibility to the bravest
man.

Mrs. Colvin had resolved to lay certain
as she believed  truths before Mrs. Enderby
: and the gentleness and tenderness
of her nature seemed to harden into almost
cruel courage. She ignored the girl's little
remark, and began speaking in her slow,
quiet, ladylike way, as though she was
stating the most ordinary of commonplaces.
It is one of the advantages of good breeding,

that it gives to the possessor of it, an
impassable self-confidence, whose mild
unconsciousness makes it only the more
impressive.

"I have been troubled and disturbed
lately," she said, " in a matter of very deep
and vital importance to me. For the past
week I have been alone, having persuaded
my son to go away and stay at Pentstock
with his sisters. He was unwilling to leave
here, but he yielded to my very clearly
expressed wishes. During that time I have
thought a great deal of you, Mrs. Enderby.
At last I resolved to ask you to come and
see me."

Jessie sat with her head a little on one
side, carefully unbuttoning and taking off
her gloves. " My hands are just a little
cramped with driving," she remarked by
the way.

Mrs. Colvin looked at her again earnestly
with her questioning grey eyes : but Jessie
appeared absorbed in the removal of her
gloves.

I am afraid there is much undesirable
gossip in Tullingworth," Mrs. Colvin went

on. " It is always so, I suppose, in a .
Every little event is instantly
remarked and commented on. Certain
things have been discussed lately which I
think you ought to know of, Mrs. Enderby."

Ah ! " she answered, a trifle impatiently,
that sort of information  pardon my saying
it  is not in the least interesting to me."

If it was merely outside gossip, I should
not trouble you with it, be sure," Mrs.
Colvin continued : " but it is something
which nearly concerns us both, your happiness
and mine, and the happiness of those
who are, or should be, very dear to us. My
son "

Jessie looked up suddenly.

Your son  your son?" she cried.
What, then, is your son to me ? "

That is just what I want to know 7 ," said
the other, quietly. " My boy is changed;
he is moody and pre-occupied ; he no
longer has any confidence in me. Someone
has come between us, and has alienated
him from me. I could wish no woman a
worse punishment than to feel the agony of
such a separation. He is too honourable

to tell me who has worked this change in
him. I do not go out much, you know,
Mrs. Enderby ; but on all hands the same
name is hinted at. What must I think ?
I would rather my son was dead than that
he should bring disgrace on himself and on
his father's name ; or that, through him,
shame and dishonour should come to
another household. I cannot believe that
Charlie would have laid himself open to
charges of this kind, unless very distinct
encouragement had been offered him."

Ah, the poor motherless chick ! do you
not pity it amid all this setting-up of
feathers, this pecking and clucking ? I do,
from my heart, though the chick is a wilful,
wandering, naughty, little thing.

Jessie sat quite still, her eyes glittering
with a hard light in them, her lips drawn
back, showing her white even teeth.

What are you talking about ? " she demanded,
in a clear voice.

Mrs. Enderby, if you have come between
me and my son, if you have played with
him, I implore you, pause, think ;  put an
end once and for all to this wretched, disgraceful

flirtation. The first steps seem
such a slight matter, so unimportant, so
lightly taken ; but think where they may lead
to. Think of your "

But she stopped with a gasp. Jessie's
white hand flashed out in a movement of
sudden, ungovernable fury, and struck her
full on the mouth.

"It is all a wicked lie!" cried the girl,
springing up, and standing fierce as a little
tigress in front of her  " a wicked, execrable
lie ! Yes, I w T ill say it. I don't care what
I say. Why do you all hunt and persecute
and accuse me ? What bad minds you must
have to think these things of me. Ah, why
did I ever come to this wretched country,
where everybody is as cruel as they are
stupid ? Tell your son he has bored me
within an inch of my life fifty times over.
He can dance, he can fetch and carry as
well as another; he is not awkward. See,
I give him his due, this precious young
gentleman. But, mon Dieu he is dull,
dull, dull  dull as your everlastingly grey
sky, your interminable fields ; dull as your
heavy brains, dull as your insolent thoughts

of me.  I cannot stay. Do not speak. I
will not hear you ! "

Still animated by the violence of her
anger, Jessie swept out of the room, down
the staircase, and out into the street. A
bitter, fierce defiance had taken possession
of her, very different to her hour of terror
at Bassett or to the sense of shame
that had followed on Augusta Enderby's
scolding of her, and made her take refuge
in her husband's faithful love. Adversity,
which braces strong, noble natures, as
heavy hammer-strokes weld true metal to
use and solidity, only mars and ruins
slight, selfish, pleasure-needing beings like
poor Jessie. They have no power of rising
through detraction and injury into a fuller
and richer spiritual life ; no power of ripening
and mellowing under the influence
of searching mental experience. They lose
their own peculiar charm ; their careless
spontaneity ; the purposeless yet inspiring
loveliness we so prized in them ; and present
us with no higher grace or virtue in
place of it. It is poor work beating butterflies
with a cart-rope.

Outwardly cairn, but with a growing concentration
of purpose, her pretty head held
high, and her hands clasped tightly together,
Jessie walked through the Tullingworth
streets in the thin February sunshine. But
her heart was black with hatred; with a
sense of unjust outlawry ; with a feeling
that she was at war with every man and
woman she met. She turned into the
hotel.

Tell my servant to bring round my
carriage immediately," she said to a waiter
standing in the hall. " I will go into the
coffee-room and wait."

The man hurried on before her to throw
open the door of the said rather gloomy
apartment, with its substantial mahogany
chairs and tables, its heavy red carpets and
curtains, its array of time-tables, hotel lists,
and daily papers.

Jessie crossed the room, and stood looking
over the wire-netted blind of the window
into the street, to catch the first sight of
the carriage. She wanted to get home as
quickly as might be. She had an announcement
to make to her husband.

A gentleman, the only other occupant of
the large room, was sitting stretched out
lazily in an armchair by the fire. His face
and the upper part of his person were
completely hidden by the newspaper he
was perusing. Jessie was far too deeply
absorbed by her own reflections to pay any
attention to her companion ; and he, on his
part, seemed at least equally indifferent to
her presence.

The carriage did not come. The girl grew
impatient. Perhaps William had not come
back from executing the various commissions
she had given him to do for her. She
turned round, intending to ring the bell and
send some one to make inquiries.

Just then the gentleman sitting by the
fire crumpled his paper together, and rose
to his feet with an irritable, little exclamation
in Italian.

Jessie paused half-way across the room.
There was a moment of profound silence.

Then she cried aloud :  " Oh, Bertie,
Bertie ! "

She came across hastily to him, her face
suddenly irradiated with a lovely expression,

half smiles, half tears. She laid both hands
on the young man's arm, and put up her
mouth, in sweet, impulsive, child-like fashion
for a kiss.

Bertie had started violently on first seeing
her. He went very pale. For a few seconds
he hesitated. Then he took her hand in
his, and bending down, kissed it, and not
her lips.

"Dear little cousin," he said in his soft
rich voice, "I was on my way to see you.
I have come over on an embassy from
Eleanor  from your stepmother. But I
intended to present myself, armed with my
credentials, with due etiquette and formality
to your husband, first of all. This meeting
is a trifle premature and disconcerting."

He managed to smile and speak in his
usual drawling w T ay ; but it seemed to Bertie
Ames that the life was going out of him in
great throbs of pain. Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay
had, indeed, given her lover a hard row to
hoe.

FOE THE SECOND TIME JESSIE ENDEEBY SEES

A GHOST.

They're a rare lot 'er lambs, they are. I
don't mind to 'a seen so many doubles since
I wer' shepherding for old Mr. Jakernan,
over at Wilby-le-Walls, a matter 'er twenty,
may be twenty-five year ago, that was."

The above observations were delivered in
the slow and measured cadence peculiar to
the Midlandshire labourer, who having
already passed middle age, has escaped the
deteriorating influences of modern education,
and still employs his native dialect with all
its legitimate breadth of intonation. The
speaker, Essex, with his moon face and
short thick-made figure, clad in a long worn
overcoat  lined for greater warmth with a
material nearly resembling horse-clothing 

VOL. III. p

and yellow leather gaiters, fitting in close
wrinkles tightly round the ankle, thereby
bringing the large proportions of his heavy,
clay-stained boots into ungraceful prominence
 stood in the listless, slouching
attitude common to men of his class,
contemplating the bleating lambs and the
great, broad-backed sheep with an air of
stolid complacency.

Colonel Enderby leant on the handle of his
long spud and contemplated the lambs too.

There is still a very real satisfaction to
be derived from the fact that most of your
ewes bring doubles, even when you have
reason to believe yourself within quite
measurable distance of eternity. The day
of small things is never quite done, thank
God. Sugar is sweet to the mouth even of
a dying man. And our friend the Colonel,
on this still February afternoon, when the
first touch of spring was in the air, and the
blackbirds flirted in merry lover-like fashion
up and down the purple budding hedgerows,
and the long tassels showed red on
the black-stemmed alders overhanging the
brook, was very pleasantly conscious, not of

death, but of life  of reviving interest and
quiet enjoyment in things around him.

It was a very good day with him. He
had been round the farm, looking at the cows
in the Home Close, and at the beasts in the
lower meadows, and watching the men and
great, gentle, massive-limbed cart-horses at
work on the plough land, for the first time
since that nasty turn he had had at Bassett,
three weeks ago. During these three weeks
he had suffered no violent return of pain ;
he had slowly mended. And Jessie, all the
while, had been kind and sweet-tempered to
him. She had been contented to stay more at
home : and though she had made no direct
allusions to his illness, Philip fancied she
had tried to be thoughtful and considerate
towards him. A little delicate flower of
hope was beginning to blossom shyly and
timidly in Colonel Enderby's breast. Ah,
life is a good gift ! Who among us, in his
saner moments, would part from it willingly ?

With an instinctive drawing towards what
is young and has the promise of future fertility
in it, he had picked a sprig of hazel,
with its tiny point of crimson flower and

green, drooping catkins, and stuck it into*
the button-hole of his brown shooting-coat.
It was not a very effective form of personal
decoration, perhaps  inferior, for instance,
to Mr. Ames' habitual gardenia :  but to
the Colonel it had a tender value, since it
symbolized the spiritual blossom of hope that
was unfolding within him.

At the same time, he was sensible of
being a good deal tired with his walk. The
sloping grass field, though he had crossed
it very slowly, tried his breathing. Philip
w T as quite willing to rest on the handle of
his spud a little longer and listen to Essex :
who, it may be observed in passing, when
engaged in conversation, always carefully
stood at right angles to his auditor, presenting
a large expanse of sallow cheek and
rounded shoulder.

Sandy, the coarse-haired, bob-tailed sheepdog,
sat down on the damp meadow grass a
few paces off; keeping a sharp, anxious eye
on the flock all the while, as the lambs ran
to and fro,  kicking and butting at each
other, racing in excited, playful little companies
wildly over the long smooth ridges,

bucking up into the air with round backs
and ungainly pendulous legs, and then rushing
back again to demand sustenance, in the
most open and unrestrained sort of fashion,
from their serious, slow-moving mothers.

That wer' the last time we had any
luck to speak of, with that flock," the man
went on. " Next year and the year soldering
the lambs come fine enough ; but they
went wrong when they got up a few days
old  seemed all to kindle away, somehow."

Seemed to kindle away, did they?"
repeated the Colonel. " I hope these little
beggars won't take to doing anything of that
sort. They look jolly enough now, anyhow."

They're a rare lot 'er lambs, they are,"
replied Essex, meditatively. " Old Muster
Bateman, he come down to me when I was
in among 'em, one Friday forenoon  Friday
it was, or Saturday  happen it wer a
Saturday, though it wer Friday, I think : 
and he says to me, ' Essex,' 'e says, very
short and off-handed like, ' what's up with
these lambs ? ' 'e says. ' They're ac'shally
pined,' 'e says. I spoke up to 'im, not holding
with being blamed when I didn't deserve

it. 'I tell you what it is, sir; I done my
best by these lambs early and late,' I says,
day in and day out ; but they've got something
wrong with their insides, sir, as is
beyond your cunning nor mine either. I
don't understand' it,' I says  no more I
didn't ; no more I don't to this mortal day.
The ewes wer' right enough  but the lambs,
they kindled. Got just like so many little
'natomies. Law bless you, there weren't
a bone in their caresses you couldn't 'a put
yer two ringers round afore they died."

Essex paused, exhausted with this flight
of anecdotal eloquence.

There, fetch 'em up, Sandy," he said.

The lean wise-faced dog sprang off like a
yellow streak across the grass, turning and
doubling, driving the fat, heavily fleeced
ewes, and the bleating lambs  a compact
palpitating dirty white mass  into the
farther corner of the wide meadow.

"I must be getting home again," said
Colonel Enderby, almost regretfully.

He enjoyed the homely, country sights
and sounds, and the pale glint of the early
spring sunshine : enjoyed them all the more

keenly at this time of returning activity,
after that miserable episode  he tried to
think of it as seldom as possible  at the
ball at Bassett Darcy.

Glad to see you about again, sir,"
observed Essex, half shamefacedly, as he
moved away after Sandy and the flock. " I
says to my missus, last night, I says, I
seems to miss something when I don't seethe
Colonel round most days."

Philip Enderby was conscious of a
heightened sense of pleasure. He was very
grateful to any one, gentle or simple, for
liking him. The flower of hope blossomed
quite bravely as he walked on quietly across
the field towards the gate opening on to
the road, just opposite the Manor House,
whose buff coloured, stuccoed gables and
great red chimney-stacks rose with such an
air of mellow old-fashioned comfort, among
the budding trees and evergreens.

Just as he passed out into the brown,
moist roadway, he heard the roll of carriage-wheels,
and the sharp trot of a pair of horses
coming up behind him. The Colonel looked
round ; and then waited on the footpath.

Jessie drove by at a smart pace, sitting
tall and straight on the high driving-seat of
the phaeton, and handling both whip and
reins in a very workman-like manner. The
colour in her cheeks was clear and bright
with the humid air and the movement ; and
her face had a pretty expression of decision
upon it, under the sweeping hues of her
large black hat.

Philip smiled at her with a certain tender
pride as she rattled past him.

That's right, put them along, Jessie''
he called after her. "I say, look out for
the gate-post, though. Why on earth
can't a woman keep in the middle of the
road, I wonder," he added to himself, " instead
of shaving off corners in that crazy
fashion?"

Jessie drove on up to the front door ;
gave her wraps and parcels  Jessie was one
of those persons, by the way, who rarely
came home without parcels  to Berrington,
who came forward to help her with his
usual stiff, sober demeanour; and then,
getting down, walked back with quick steps
to meet her husband.

My dear child," said the Colonel ; " do,
for goodness' sake, be a little more careful
at corners. You were within an ace of
running into that right-hand gate-post just
now, and then we should have had a pretty
smash. Upon my word, I don't at all like
your driving those horses with William
sitting behind. An accident might happen
half a dozen times over before he could get
round to help you."

One's groom cannot sit by one's side,"
she answered with decision. "It looks 
like that  all nohow. It is not at all
comme ilfaut, I think."

I'd fifty times rather a thing looked
nohow  as you put it  than that you
should run any risk of hurting yourself. It
turned me perfectly sick to see you just
now." Then feeling that he had spoken
rather authoritatively, he added  " Come
along in, and get your tea, and tell me how
the world wags in Tullingworth."

Jessie stuck out the toe of one neat little
boot from under the frills of her dark velvet
skirt and stamped it on the gravel.

"My feet are frozen," she said. "I

must take a turn to warm them. Come
with me, Philip, round the garden."

Colonel Enderhy would have preferred
going into the house at once. He was
tired ; and a sense of fatigue was, he knew
well, a risky thing, being often the precursor
of active physical distress. Then, too,
he shrank from letting his wife see how
slowly he found it necessary to walk, or how
often he had to stand a minute and rest now.

Oh, do come ! " Jessie repeated, somewhat
querulously.

She put her hand into his with a dainty
gesture of compulsion. Her charming face
was very close to his at the moment.
Philip bent down and kissed the cool
rounded cheek. Jessie's little tempers were
wonderfully bewitching.

cc Come along, then," he said, smiling at
her. " You shall go for a prowl and warm
your feet, if you want to."

The girl slipped her hand through his
arm, and they passed round to the garden,
and began pacing up and down the gravel
path, between the old red brick wall and
the tennis-ground. A light wind came

damp and fresh over the stretches of grassland,
and the pale light grew fainter and
fainter as the sun sank in the white glistening
west. Jessie was silent. She seemed
quiet and absent. Colonel Enderby, ashe
moved beside her, fell into a vaguely
pleasant reverie, begotten of the stillness
and tenderness of the spring evening.

"I met Bertie Ames this afternoon,"
said the girl abruptly, at last.

The Colonel stopped short, moved a step
away from his wife, and stared at her in
undisguised amazement.

Bertie Ames ! " he exclaimed  "Bertie
Ames ! Why, what the devil is he doing
here?"

"You cannot be more astonished than I
was," she answered. " He has kindly taken
the trouble to come over to England to see
us. Mamma, it appears, desired it. He
left Terzia in a great hurry, and had not
time to write. He intended coming out
here tomorrow to call on you, after sending
over to announce his arrival. I met him
quite by accident. We had a long talk.
Bertie said a number of remarkable things."

So far Jessie had spoken with a cold self-restraint
very unusual to her. Now she
came back to her husband's side, and took
his arm again.

Let us walk up and down, Philip," she
said. " I must move about ; my feet are
cold, you know."

They recommenced pacing up and down.
The Colonel was staggered by this surprising
piece of information. The charm of the
spring day had suddenly departed. He felt
a terrible distrust of what might be coming.

Bertie has changed in some ways,"
Jessie continued. " He said things I did
not at all like. He has taken to giving
admirable advice ; and it sounded a little
ridiculous coming from him, somehow 7 . I
am not sure that it did not amount to
being almost offensive."

Philip glanced at his wife sharply ; but
she was looking straight before her.

"Bertie is going to do an extraordinary
thing. He is going to marry Mamma," she
said.

The Colonel gave a quick sigh of relief.
It seemed as though a weight had been

THE FINAL REWARD. 221

lifted off Mm  a weight which had pressed
on him, at moments, ever since his first
meeting with Jessie, long ago. He felt
very thankful.

I am glad," he remarked, presently.

Though, all the same, it appears to me
that Mr. Ames' good fortune is very much
in excess of his deserts."

Jessie held up her head stiffly ; her voice
shook perceptibly as she spoke.

I am not glad. I know Mamma is
young still ; but I do not like it. It is confusing
and unnatural. Everything will be
different now  the little red villa is spoilt
to me, and I was very happy there, sometimes."


Colonel Enderby stifled the reply that
rose instinctively to his lips; stifled, too,
the movement of jealousy, which his wife's
evident emotion provoked in him. He
could afford to be generous. Mr. Ames
was going to marry Mrs. Pierce-Dawnay 
the Colonel was, indeed, truly glad.

But Jessie seemed to have an unconquerable
fit of restlessness upon her.

"I must walk," she said again, after a
minute or two.

She turned, and passing along the farther
side of the tennis-ground, between it and
the sunk fence, took another path, which
leads up by a gentle slope ending in a
flight of moss-grown stone steps, to a
straight walk  beyond the trees and shrubberies
 bounding the Manor House grounds
on the east, and affording a pretty extensive
view over the surrounding country.

The late conversation had given Philip
a good deal to think about. He followed
Jessie quickly and mechanically, without
any thought of himseK. At the top of the
steps, however, he was very forcibly reminded
of certain unpleasant facts by a loss
of breath, and a sharp stabbing sensation
in his throat. As he stood panting and
trying to get his breath again, he glanced
anxiously at his wife. But Jessie was preoccupied
; she was not observing him.

She had crossed the walk, and leant back
against the ivy-covered wall which divided
it from the high-lying pastures beyond.
The mellow brick-work and multitudinous
ivy leaves formed a finely toned background
to her figure. A great web of semi-transparent

cloud spread across the western sky,
through which the low sun shone with a
faint, colourless radiance. The pale light
fell softly on the girl's rich dark dress
and on her large hat, leaving her face in
shadow, as she stood looking down. She
clasped her hands tightly together with a
strained nervous action.

Philip," she said at last, in a hard voice ;
"it has come to this  we must leave here.
I must have a change. You have always
said you would do your best to make me
happy. Keep your word  let us go away."

Colonel Enderby's expression darkened
with something besides bodily suffering.
He leant heavily on his spud, and answered
with the carefulness and deliberation of one
who finds speech difficult.

I thought you liked your home, Jessie ? "

So I did, at first. But, as Bertie used
to say  not the Bertie I saw to-day ; he indulges
in moral aphorisms worthy of a
schoolgirl's album ; but as Bertie used to
say, in the old days, before his very surprising
regeneration  one gets beyond
everything in time. I have got beyond this

place and the society of it. I have squeezed
it dry "  she made a very expressive motion
with her hands  " and there is nothing hut
the rind left. The people are stupid; but
stupid ! " she cried with an outburst of
vehemence, looking up at her husband.

There was a steely brightness in her
eyes, and her face was curiously set. Jessie
looked older, she looked dangerous. Pride
and disgust made it impossible to her to
repeat the story of her interview with Mrs.
Colvin ; but the memory of it inspired her
with a strange intensity of manner at this
moment.

The people here do not understand
me," she went on ; " they are beginning not
to like me. I must have something fresh."

"Well, what do you want?" asked
Philip, with the same carefulness of utterance.
From physical causes he could only
trust himself to say a few words at a time.

"It has not turned out a success here,"
she replied. " The last few months have
been wretched ; they have been a great disappointment
to me. I want to go far away
and forget it all."

Practically, that is not an easy thing todo,"
said the Colonel. "It costs a lot of
money to go away, at short notice : and as
to money, we are in rather low water just
now, I'm sorry to say."

Oh, I have thought over all that. You
can realize."

Realize ? " he repeated.

"Yes; make a clean sweep. The stock
on the farm is worth a good deal ; you said
so yourself only the other day. There is
all our furniture ; it is valuable. I only
bought the most expensive things. There
are the horses. I shall be sorry to part with
them ; but it would be too much trouble to
take them with us ; and we could get very
good ones, I suppose, in Paris or Vienna."

Philip Enderby looked at the girl in utter
bewilderment.

"Paris or Vienna!" he exclaimed. "My
dear child, what on earth are you talking
about?"

"Why, this, this!" she cried excitedly.
I want to go away to some great city,
where life is full and tumultuous and stirring
; where the action is rapid ; where there

VOL. III. Q

is constant amusement ; where there is not
time to consider and to think ; where there
is plenty of sound in the air, and of light
and glitter in the streets. Don't you feel
the wearying stagnation of this miserable
place ? I have tried England ; and England
will not do for me. Let us make a clean
sweep of everything, and cut ourselves
adrift. You always say you love me, Philip ;
then give me what I ask for. Let us go."

A strange uncertain smile, that had very
little of amusement in it, came across the
Colonel's face. He turned and looked into
the pale misty sunset ; and  he could not
help it  his eyes filled with tears. He had
settled down in this quiet home with such
a gracious sense of content and well-being.
The wide, green, pastoral country, with its
yearly round of simple natural occupations
and interests, had satisfied some of his
strongest and most wholesome instincts.
The late granted satisfaction of his affections
in love and marriage, and his subsequent
return to the scenes and associations
of his youth, had rounded life for Philip,
and given him a second spring-time such

as seldom falls to the lot of a man who
has set foot on the barren tableland of
middle age. Even during the last few
months, while the shadow of sickness and
anxiety had covered him, the farm and
garden, the woods and fields, the twitter of
birds in the grey mornings, the thousand
changes of cloud and sunshine, calm and
storm, had soothed, and fortified, and helped
him very really. To give up all this for a
wilderness of brick and mortar ; for the bold
careless splendour and equally bold and
careless shame of a great city, struck him
as almost too bitter a sacrifice. To go
away and leave all that was so dear to him 
beloved with the intimate and vital affection
which is bred in the very bone and
blood  to go away and die in a strange land !
Jessie's proposition was preposterous : it
would have been almost comic in its glaring
incongruity, if there had not appeared to
be an alarming completeness in her conception
of it.

Philip was weak and tired; he was not
equal to arguing with his wife.

I didn't expect this, you know, Jessie'*

he said slowly. " It has taken me by
surprise : and I am not very quick, I'm
afraid, at getting hold of a new idea."

Our reasons for coming here were two,"
she rejoined, with a certain finality in her
tone. " You wanted to be near Bassett,
and you wanted to hunt. I most distinctly
have no intention of going near
Bassett again, after Augusta's behaviour tome
; and it seems that you have quite given
up hunting  so there is no valid reason why
we should remain."

Ah, those were our only tw T o reasons for
coming here, were they? " said Philip, with
the same hopeless kind of smile. " I had
fancied there w r as more in it than merely
that. However, no doubt you know best, my
dear. I think we'd better go in. The mist
is beginning to rise ; you may catch cold."

Jessie moved to the head of the steps.
As she passed him she gave her husband an
odd furtive look.

There are cleverer doctors in Paris and
Vienna than there are here," she said, in a
low voice. " Perhaps, for your own sake,
Philip, you had better go."

"Be honest, Jessie, be honest," cried the
Colonel, with a movement of keen distress
and anger. " For love I would do anything
for you, God knows ; but you can't
buy me."

The girl made no answer. She went on
swiftly down the path : and it was not till
she nearly reached the house that she turned
and looked back at her husband.

He was a long way behind, standing still,
right in the middle of the walk. Jessie was
seized with sudden dread. She called to him .
At first he did not answer. She waited a
minute ; then her own fear made her go a
few steps towards him. She called again.

Why do you stand there ? Why don't
you come in, Philip ? "

The Colonel motioned her away with a
passionate gesture.

Go indoors," he said hoarsely; "go
indoors, Jessie. Never mind me. Go in.
I'll come on presently."

She paused for a moment  listening 
watching him intently. Then she went on
hurriedly round the corner of the house.

Dr. Mortimer Symes stayed at the Manor

House till late that night. Berrington, ashe
helped him on with his overcoat in the
hall, when at last he was leaving, ventured
on a remark.

This was a worse attack than the other,
sir," he said.

Colonel Enderhy has been desperately
ill to-night," Dr. Symes answered seriously.

Berrington passed his hand scientifically
about the crown of the doctor's hat before
presenting it to him.

"Will the Colonel get round, sir?" he
asked.

Dr. Symes shook his head.

." I greatly fear not. If he could be
spared all anxiety and agitation, his life
would be prolonged, probably. But the
mischief is grave, and it is of a nature
which leaves no hope of actual recovery.
He has complained of pain in the throat
to-day ; that is a new symptom, and a very
alarming one, I regret to say."

Dr. Symes took his hat.

You have my instructions ? " he added.
I shall come over again tomorrow
morning."

Berrington assented. When the doctor
had finally departed, he went back quietly
to the smoking-room.

Colonel Enderby sat in an easy-chair by
the fire. He leant forward, with his elbows
resting on his knees, in a nerveless attitude.
His eyes were closed ; his face was drawn ;
he looked fearfully exhausted. As the
servant came in, he opened his eyes and
raised himself, with a perceptible effort.

I'm better' he said. " I believe I can
get upstairs, Berrington, if I take my time
about it, and you help me. It must be
late, and I don't want to keep Mrs. Enderby
up."

Berrington stooped clown and began
gathering some newspapers together that
had fallen on the floor.

Mrs. Enderby sent down to ask how
you were about half an hour ago, sir. She
sent word that she didn't wish to be disturbed
again. She gave orders that the
north bedroom was to be got ready for
you."

The newspapers rustled as Berrington
smoothed and folded them, and laid them

on the lower shelf of the what-not, against
the wall. He put the fire together with a
few skilful touches, occupying himself with
unobtrusive employment till his master
should give some further order. At last
he had performed all the small offices that
presented themselves ; then he stood
waiting in respectful silence.

Philip Enderby looked up at his old
servant and spoke. His manner w T as calm ;
but his eyes were those of a man utterly
broken-hearted and despairing.

"You can go, Berrington," he said.
There's nothing more you can do for me.
I'll stay down here for the present."

Discipline is stronger even than sympathy.
Berrington noiselessly opened the door, and
went out into the dimly lighted anteroom.
Then he could not contain himself any
longer. No one was within hearing, and he
spoke his mind.

11 Damn that woman ! " he said aloud.
It was the ugliest day of the poor Colonel's
life when he first set eyes on her  the little
jade ! "

As for Philip Enderby, he sat quite still,

leaning his head on his hands. Some
agonies are dumb. They cannot translate
themselves into articulate speech, or even
into articulate thought. But the last act
of the tragedy had come. Jessie had given
her husband his dismissal : and  God help
him  he knew it.

CHAPTER II.

THE COLONEL IS TEMPTED TO THROW DOWN
THE Cards.

The smoking-room at the Manor House
struck Dr. Stones as a peculiarly cosy and
cheerful apartment, when he entered it
next morning. The large sash-window
looks out due south over the tennis-ground
and garden; and at this hour the sunshine
slanted in at it, lighting up a quaint
series of old coloured sporting prints that
adorned the w r all opposite the fireplace, and
illuminating a chalk drawing of Jessie
Enderby hanging over the writing-table.
The drawing in question was a very clever
one. In it the artist had succeeded in
giving that subtle suggestion of individual
character which has since gone far to
secure him a conspicuous place among our

modern portrait painters. Fred Wharton
had caught and rendered admirably the
irresponsible, sportive, puck-like quality of
Jessie's beauty.

A large dark bookcase, containing a
library very symptomatic of its owner's
tastes, filled up the further end of the low
room. Over the chimney piece was a high
wooden rack fastened against the wall ; on
which rested a couple of fly-rods  done up in
neat grey water-proof cases ; a rifle and a
double-barrel shot-gun, exhibiting, under
the careful hands of Berrington, the highest
degree of polish wood and metal could be
induced to take ; some whips and spurs, and
miscellaneous odds and ends of a sporting
order ; and in the place of honour, just over
the mantelshelf, a sword  the steel scabbard
of it giving off a keen, cold dazzle of light.

The morning was remarkably mild and
fine. The window had been thrown wide
open, and on the ledge, just outside, sat
Jessie's fluffy black cat, daintily washing
his face with his cushioned paws, his attention
centred very completely upon his own
sleek, well-favoured little person.

Colonel Enderby stood by the open
window, his back to Dr. Symes, as that
gentleman, with short halting steps, entered
the room. The doctor was not easily taken
off his guard ; but he could hardly restrain
an exclamation when his patient, turning
round, came forward to greet him.

The Colonel was well-dressed, as usual,
and had the same air of spotless freshness
and cleanliness about him. Nevertheless,
a singular alteration had taken place in
his appearance. His thick hair and heavy
moustache had been getting very grey for
the last three months, it is true : but this
morning they were blanched as white as
snow T . The effect w T as startling.  Perhaps
it was the result of contrast. His eyes
appeared vividly, almost preternaturally
blue. They were sunk in his head, yet
were very wide open, the upper lid being
almost hidden under the curve of the eye-socket
; while they had a distressing fixed
stare in them, as of one who still sees,
indeed, but to whom the object seen conveys
little or no intelligible impression.

A decided inclination to pressure on the

brain. I feared something of the kind last
night," thought Dr. Symes to himself.
Outwardly he assumed an extra flavour of
his habitual urbanity.

I am glad to find you down already, my
dear Colonel Enderby," he said, shaking
hands with his patient. " I trust this is
not merely another testimony to your remarkable
fortitude, but a sign that you
are really feeling better."

Yes, I suppose I am better," replied
the Colonel  " as much better as I can
have any reasonable hope of being."

"You have a magnificent constitution,"
began the doctor, in a tone of encouragement.


Philip leant back against the embrasure
of the window.

Have I ? " he said. " Well, I can't say
that just now I am very glad to hear it. I
feel uncommonly like a broken-down old
cab-horse ; broken-kneed and broken winded
well between the shafts. The poor old
beast remembers better times, Dr. Symes 
cheery days long ago across country : and
it's no very great consolation to him to

learn that he and the cab are not likely
soon to part company."

Philip put his hand out and began stroking
the cat. But the creature got upstretched
with slow and dignified indifference,
moved along the window-ledge just
far enough to be out of reach, and then
calmly reapplied its attention to the completion
of its toilette.

Dr. Symes was silent. He perceived
that his companion was not in a condition
in which it would be of any advantage to
attempt ordinary mild inanities in the
way of comfort. It would be better to let
Colonel Enderby have his say out. Hew
7 as evidently labouring under acute excitement
of some kind. If he gave vent to it
in speech, it might be a relief to him. Dr.
Symes waited.

Philip watched the cat for a few seconds.
Then he turned again to the doctor.

"Well, every dog has his day, and I've
had mine, I suppose. Ah! good God," he
broke out suddenly, "if I could only be
in the thick of it all once more  you can't
think how it all comes back to me  hear

the roar of the guns, and the shout of the
men, and smell the powder; if I could
fight ! "  he set his teeth and looked across
at the sword hanging against the wall
yonder  "yes, right just once more  at
bottom I am the veriest savage  instead
of sitting rotting here day after day, eating
my heart out over trouble that can never
be mended! "

He dashed his hand impatiently across
his eyes.

You must forgive a sick man's grumbling,"
he went on, more quietly. " When
one ails like a woman, one takes to complaining
like one, I suppose.  The old horse
will keep on his legs as long as he can, after
all, just from the old habit of going. And
then some fair morning the poor brute will
be too far gone to draw the cab any longer ;
then they'll put a halter on him and lead
him away by the little back streets, so that
people mayn't see him, to the knackers."

Philip turned away and pressed his forehead
against the cool glass of the window.

That's how it ends," he said  "how it
ends, ah me !  and the cruel thing is, that

last morning is sometimes over-long incoming."


Dr. Symes was deeply moved; he could
not trust himself to speak. He walked
to the other end of the room, and stood
looking at the backs of the books in the
shelf. When he came back, Colonel
Enderby had recovered his self-control.

Pardon me," he said ; "I believe I have
been guilty of making a great fool of myself.
I have had a bad night. I am not
very steady this morning."

Mortimer Symes drew forward a chair,
threw one leg across the other, and prepared
to deliver a little oration.

"My duty, and I may add, my privilege,
Colonel Enderby, is to postpone the advent
of that last morning as long as possible.
We aH quarrel with life at moments, I
suppose ; but the quarrel, after all, is a
transitory one. The deeper feeling, the
instinct and impulse, of every health'
human being is in favour of life, not of
death. To my mind this love of life, implanted
so universally in our nature, is the
dispensation of a wise and merciful Providence.

It must be reverenced, and not
outraged. As I said before, my dear sir,
yoa have a magnificent constitution. In
your case, with reasonable care, life may
still yield you a measure of enjoyment and
satisfaction. It may be prolonged without
becoming an intolerable burden either to
yourself or those whom it is your first dut r
to consider. But a little common care and
forethought are undeniably necessary. You
have disregarded my injunctions, and overtaxed
your strength in the most wanton
manner. Yesterday, it appears to me, the
attack was produced mainly by too long
abstinence from food, and by over-fatigue."

Dr. Symes paused. His patient stood
staring silently out of the window. The
doctor began to fear his words had been
pretty well wasted. He shifted his position,
and added, with considerable
emphasis 

Your continued silence concerning your
state of health has been, believe me, an
almost culpable exaggeration of chivalrous
sensibility. You must positively indulge
in it no longer. We must institute a new

VOL. III. R

regime altogether. I propose saying a few
words to Mrs. Enderby myself before leaving
here to-day."

Colonel Enderby faced round upon him
quickly. The vague, fixed look passed away,
and his expression grew perfectly definite.
At the mention of his wife's name he regained
his normal manner and bearing;
and became once more the quiet, dignified
gentleman whom Dr. Symes had, from the
first, so warmly admired.

Forgive me," he said; " but that will
be unnecessary. I shall myself explain
matters to Mrs. Enderby. All this, as you
will readily understand, cannot fail to be
very distressing to her. It is only right
that she should hear of it from her husband."

"I understand perfectly," rejoined the
doctor. ' ' But, under existing circumstances,
I strongly deprecate your undertaking an
explanation w T which may lead to agitating
conversation."

That, unfortunately, is unavoidable,"
said Philip, simply.

Dr. Symes bow r ed. He was conscious
of receiving a rebuff; but he bore Colonel

Derby no grudge for administering it
to him. His dramatic sense was satisfied
by the fact that his patient, even now
under the heavy pressure of illness, held
to his original determination, and so stoutly
refused to own himself beaten. Constancy
of purpose appeared to him as great as it
is rare among the virtues. During the
remainder of his visit he kept the conversation
in strictly technical and professional
channels.

And, in truth, Philip had not spoken
without due consideration, actuated merely
by g. desire to shield Jessie, or by a passing
feeling of the moment.

During the past night, sitting there alone,
while the clocks struck hour after hour
in the silent house, the Colonel had been
terribly honest with himself. He had faced
the situation; he had realized the purport
of it with appalling clearness ; he had parted
sternly with all illusion. The old necessity
for straightforward practical action was
strong in him still. He had got his marching
orders, so to speak  well, then, he must
obey them. There was no longer any place

for doubt, for hope, for hesitation. He had
ruined his career. He had thrown away his
life for a thing that had played him false
for a thing that could hardly, indeed,
be said to have any real existence at all
outside his own imagination. He had been
fatally deluded, he had fallen into a deplorable
weakness and error. His great and
noble love was wounded to the death,
stricken, fainting, bleeding. He had no
hope for it of recovery or returning. All
he asked for it now was a still and silent
death-bed, free from prying eyes and
whispered comments, and the vulgar
curiosity of idle persons : and, lastly, a
reverent and decent burial  that it might
lie in some quiet place, its brief glory and
long sorrow alike blotted out and forgotten.
With no ingenious phrases, but in voiceless
inarticulate fashion, he recognized and
admitted the mysterious limitations of
Jessie's nature  recognized that what
went to make her inimitable personal
charm went also to make her incapacity r
for looking at life from any but her own
standpoint, that her fascination and her

selfishness were, in fact, synonymous ; saw
that her purity took its rise in absence of
human passion, just as her gaiety took its
rise in some radical defect of human sympathy
; saw, too, that her quick observation
and practical ability were the result of a.
singular shallowness of feeling.

I do not mean to imply that Colonel
Enderby treated his wife's temperament
scientifically, and drew out a neat schedule
of her peculiarities. It was in no cool,
nice, progressive spirit of criticism that he
arrived at these conclusions ; but rather in
the scorching lightning flash of a blinding
conviction. He had fought against the
truth  fought in gallant, reckless, chivalrous
fashion. He had given her every chance.
But fact is stronger than any man's will,
or than any man's love either. It crushes
down, down, down on us till denial is no
longer possible. The beleaguered city is
starved out. The struggle is over. It
remains only for the famine-wasted garrison
to make the best terms it may, subject to
honour, with the conquerors.

CHAPTER III.

IN WHICH LOVE LOSES THE GAME, YET WINS
THE RUBBER.

Mr. Ames's premonition that his visit to
England would be productive of bad luck
to somebody, was not, as the event proved,
unfounded. It went far to hasten a catastrophe.
Jessie Enderby, her whole being
in fierce revolt from the unjust accusations
brought against her, had experienced a
happy unreasoning revulsion of feeling at
the first sight of her old comrade. Bertie
was here ; she was very fond of Bertie.
The sky cleared suddenly. Everything
would come right again somehow.

But the young man's words and manner,
above all, the news of his engagement to
her step-mother, had only plunged poor
Jessie deeper into disappointment, gloom,
and rebellion. He could do nothing for her,

after all. He bad merely come to read lier
lessons of submission and duty like the rest ;
and, unfortunately, such lessons only bored
and enraged ber. She had fallen back
upon her husband. Philip was very good
to her  kinder than any one. She would
get him to take her far from her present
vexations and miseries. The world is wide,
somewhere she might still enjoy herself. 
Then even Philip failed her. He was ill,
and that disgusted and frightened her.
She was furious, merciless, desperate.

Soon after Dr. Symes left him, the Colonel
went in search of his brilliant young wife.
He had not seen her since their parting the
evening before in the garden. He had
remained downstairs all night; and this
morning, beyond an inquiry through the
medium of Berrington, Jessie had given
no sign. Philip shrank from sending for
his wife, or even asking where she was.
It seemed an indecent publishing of the
alienation between them. He thought she
might not have come down yet  Jessie
was not famous for early rising  so he
went through the anteroom and hall, up

the polished oak staircase, the broad steps
of which twinkled where the light took
them, and along the landing to the door
of her room.

It stood ajar. Philip knocked ; and, as
there was no immediate answer, he pushed
it open.

The room was a small chaos of trunks
and boxes. On the bed, piled up one over
the other, were the contents of Jessie's
wardrobes, her dresses, jackets, mantles  a
rainbow of soft colours and rich, dainty
fabrics ;  the floor was strewn with charming-little
boots and slippers and mysterious
paper boxes ;  the dressing-table was encumbered
with half-packed jewellery and
ornaments ;  and about it all lingered that
indescribable, permeating sweetness which
seems to cling to certain women's garments,
and is so singularly agreeable to the senses.

Kneeling before a big dress basket, sorting,
arranging, packing, with rapid, skilful fingers,
was Jessie's French maid  a plain, shrewd-eyed,
well-dressed person, whose elaborate
coiffure provoked at once the admiration
and envy of her fellow domestics. As the

door opened she glanced up sharply ; and,
catching sight of the Colonel just behind
her, gave a little scream.

"Ah! a thousand pardons, monsieur!"
she cried, rising hastily to her feet. " I was
startled for the moment, not knowing that
monsieur was* there."

Colonel Enderby looked round the room
slowly, unable at first to take in what it
might all mean.  " Le pauvre crier homme"
as Sidon said later to B erring ton, "just
then he was terrible. He had the face of
a corpse and eyes of fire. During my life I
cannot forget it."

At first his fears outstripped the truth;
he thought Jessie was already gone.

Where is your mistress?" he asked
hoarsely.

Madame went down some half-hour ago.
No doubt monsieur will find her in the
drawing-room . ' '

The Colonel drew himself up, and looked
very straight at the woman.

Put all those things back in their proper
places, do you hear?" he said. "Mrs.
Enderby will not leave home at present."

Bien, monsieur" returned Sidon, with
perfect sweetness and composure.

And she began to empty the dress basket
again with great alacrity.

Jessie could not help being effective ; it
was as natural to her as her love of music
or of dancing. When Colonel Enderby
entered the drawing-room, he was presented
with a little picture which to a man in a
less cruelly serious frame of mind could not
have failed to appear really delightful.

The coloured blinds were drawn partly
down, and the sunshine came in through
them, filling the pretty room with a warm
diffused glow of light. Jessie was tying at
full length on the low sofa set across one
corner of the room. She wore a loose white
cashmere morning gown, which fell in a
dense, soft mass of drapery about her slight
rounded figure, and formed an agreeable
contrast to the dusky orange-red cover of
the couch. A basket of half-torn letters
and papers stood on the floor beside her.
She was very pale ; there were dark circles
round her closed eyes. The lustre seemed
to have gone out of her beauty : yet it

was great still. And there was a languor
in her attitude which had in it something
very appealing.

Even now, notwithstanding all that had
come between them, in looking at his wife
Colonel Enderby felt a great wave of tenderness
pass over him.

Jessie," he said quickly, " what's the
matter ? Are you ill ? "

She turned her face to the wall, keeping
her eyes closed, and seeming to shrink away
from him.

I have not slept. I have had a lot todo
; I am tired."

"Poor child ! " said Philip, gently.

And truly he pitied her  pitied her as
one pities some creature of another race,
which one craves to help and cannot. The
bitterest drop in his cup of sorrow, perhaps,
was the knowledge that vitally this lovely
woman, whom he had loved so passionately,
had always been infinitely far away from
him in spirit and in heart. Except on the
mere surface of life, they had never had
any real ground of meeting.

He came on a few steps nearer to her.

In doing so he suddenly caught sight of
his own face in a mirror on the wall. The
Colonel started, paused ; and then moved
hack and sat down on a chair just behind
the head of the sofa, where Jessie could not
see him, unless she rose from her present
recumbent position. He leant forward,
resting his hands on his knees, holding his
head up stiffly, and staring straight before
him across the pretty room.

Jessie," he began, in a low voice, "I
have come here to speak to you. I w r ant
you to listen carefully to what I say. You
needn't move or get up ; just lie still if
you're tired  I can talk to you best, perhaps,
so. I am sorry to trouble you at all; but
it is positively necessary we should come
to an understanding. I'll say my say as
shortly as I can."

The girl made no reply.

You remember what you asked me
yesterday? I promised to think it over.
I was prepared, even though the cost was
a heavy one, to do what I could to please
you ; but something has occurred since
that settles the matter, I'm afraid. I am

THE FINAL EEWABD. 253

sorry on your account, Jessie  but I shall
not be able to leave here."

Philip waited a moment. Jessie lay quite
still.

I am very ill," he went on slowly.
I'm sorry to distress you, but it is best
to be plain, and for some time you must
have guessed how things were going. I'm
very ill. There can only be one end to it."
Jessie put up her hands and pressed them
feverishly over her eyes.

Don't tell me anymore," she moaned;
Oh, don't tell me ! Am I not unhappy
enough already? Have not I had enough
to bear ? Let me go without knowing."

Colonel Enderby's head sank lower. His
face grew haggard with emotion.

"Ah, dear me!" he said; "but it has
come to this, that I must tell you. I have
been silent as long as I could be. God
knows," he went on bitterly, " I would have
died a hundred deaths rather than have confessed
my love and asked you to marry me,
if I could have foreseen such sorrow would
have come on you through me. I believed
myself to be stronger than most men this

time last year. I did not come to you with
the dregs of a worn-out constitution. I am
innocent of any sacrificing of your young
life to my own selfish greed of happiness.
I had not the faintest suspicion that there
was anything wrong with me. You believe
that, at least, Jessie, don't you?" he demanded
hotly.

Believe it? Oh, I don't know!" she
cried, with her face half hidden among the
cushions. "What difference can it make
my believing? You are talking about a
year ago. A year ago, a century ago, it
is all the same. What does it matter if
here, now, to-day, I am miserable ? "

The Colonel bowed himself together and
rested his head in his hands. There was
no hope, no comfort left. He had known
that, ever since Berrington had brought
him Jessie's message last night. And yet,
as the girl forced the truth home upon
him by her every word and gesture, his
pain grew almost greater than he could
endure. His wife was miserable. In a way
her misery lay at his door. It was frightful
to him.

At last he drew himself up, and spoke
again clearly and steadily.

Look here, Jessie ! I am not squeamish :
I am not trying to deceive myself in this
matter. I know, to my sorrow, that you
don't like sickness and sick people. I will
do my best to conceal all that is unpleasant
and distasteful from you. I'll keep out of
your way ; you shall see as little of me as
possible. But understand this  you are my
wife still, and you are a very beautiful
woman."

Philip's breath came short and thick ; he
would not get on for a minute or so.

"I will have no scandal. "While I live
you will remain here with me. Don't be
afraid. I know how to respect my word. I
shall not annoy you, or ask anything from
you beyond the barest toleration and commonest
courtesy; but we will have no
scenes, no recriminations. There must be
no occasion for gossip and common talk
about our relations. You will remain under
the same roof with me, and we w T ill keep
our secret, till  till "

He ceased abruptly.

While her husband had been speaking r
Jessie opened her eyes, raised herself, and
turned towards him. As he uttered the last
words she broke into a loud, piercing cry.

Oh, Philip, you are changed; I do not
know you ! Go away  ah, go away ! It is
horrible. What has happened ? "
The Colonel did not move.
I've grown old," he said slowly ; " that's
all."

Jessie gazed at him for a few seconds in
silent wonder, as though fascinated. Her
lips parted, and the expression of fear grew
and deepened in her eyes till it amounted
to absolute agony.

Shall you die, Philip?" she whispered
at last, in an awestricken voice.

Yes," answered Colonel Enderby,
quietly; " I hope so."

There was a space of dead silence.
To the Colonel it was a space of dreadful
and paralyzing suspense. He could say
nothing more; only wait, listening in breathless
expectation for his wife's next words.
He noted, as so often happens in moments
of supreme mental excitement, a number

of little ordinary matters with curious distinctness.
 Noted the comfortable crackle
of the wood fire on the hearth, and the tick
of the tall inlaid clock in the corner,
beating its regulation sixty seconds to the
minute with something of aggressive
indifference to the human tragedy playing
itself out so close by. And all the while
Jessie leaned on her elbow, resting her
rounded chin in her little pink-palmed
hand, and gazed at the man who for love
of her had voluntarily condemned himself
to such cruel suffering, with the same pale,
lovely, terrified countenance.

At last Philip could stand it no longer.
He faced round.

Speak, Jessie, speak. Say what you
like, only put me out of this unspeakable
torment."

The girl flung herself down face foremost
upon the couch again.

Oh, set me free ! " she cried  " set me
free ; let me leave you to-day, while I care
while I am still sorry and love you ! "

You have never loved me," he said :
you don't even know what love means."

VOL. III. S

Jessie did not heed him.
Don't keep me here ; let me go to-day.
I have made all my arrangements. If you
keep me, I shall grow wicked. I can't help
it ; I am made like that. I hate what is
sad, and I shall come to hate you, Philip.
Let me go to-day, and then I shall think of
you as you were  not, not as you are now.
Ah ! it is the merest farce our staying here
together ! I can never feel to you again as
I used to. It will he maddening. Think
what you are condemning me to ? I might
as well he shut away in a prison. What
does it matter if people do talk ? Haven't
they said had enough things to me already ?
And if I am gone I shall not know it. Set
me free, Philip, or I shall hate you ; and I
don't want to do it," she moaned  " indeed,
I don't want to, hut I shall not he able to
help it."

For a few seconds Colonel Enderhy sat
quite still. His lips were parched, his throat
was as dry as summer dust, his temples
throbbed as though they would split ; yet
he was chilled to the hone, and the cold
sweat stood in great drops on his forehead.

By sheer force of will he mastered
himself, stood up, and, coming forward a
few paces, looked down at his wife, as she
lay still shaken with the now ebbing tide of
her passion.

At the risk of making you hate me, I
shall keep you here, Jessie," he said
sternly. " I don't do this for my own sake,
Heaven knows ; as far as that goes, I should
be thankful if we never met again. What
torture do you suppose can be more scathing
than that of knowing myself loathsome
in the eyes that have been dearer to me
than anything else on earth ? You will not
be the only sufferer ; I shall have my share
too, never fear.  I keep you for the sake of
your own honour. If people have, as you
hint, spoken lightly about you, they shall
have no cause to do it again while I live.
And, after all, you need not fret so very
much about it  you'll get away soon enough.
You won't have to put up with me very
long, I fancy, at worst. Strong men die
hard, they say ; but I don't think a man can
feel as I do now, and bother Death greatly
by keeping him waiting."

He moved away  went across the room
nearly as far as the door. And then, because
true love has in it, I suppose, when all is
said and done, something divine and immortal,
 the Colonel stopped, hesitated,
suddenly turned back ; and came and knelt
down beside the sofa.

As he bent low over the young girl,
Philip Enderby's face was as the face of an
angel  awful in its tenderness, its pardon,
and in the purity of its devotion.

Jessie," he said, "my darling, my love,
my bride, put your dear arms round me
once more, for the last time. I will never
ask you again, trust me  never."

He kissed her eyes, her lips, her bright
hair, and passed his hand down over her
lithe form, from throat to ankle, while she
shuddered and shrank away under his touch
with speechless emotion. Then he unclasped
the soft white hands that clung so
unwillingly about his neck, and laid the girl,
swathed in her long white draperies, back
softly and reverently upon the tawny
cushions.

Farewell," he said. "Henceforth we

will meet only as strangers. Yet God
keep you always, my fair child. For me
it has ended badly, alas ! but I do not
complain. I too have had my beautiful
days."

CHAPTER IV.

PHILIP ENDEKBY FINDS HIS WAY HOME.

In a sense it may be said that suffering
supplies its own antidote. Nature, forced
beyond a legitimate point of endurance,
reacts upon herself, and takes refuge in
callousness or insensibility. Certain it is
that when the last few searching yet
illuminated moments of his interview with
his wife were over, Philip Enderby fell into
a condition of singular mental apathy. He
was still conscious, it is true, of being
bowed down by the weight of a heavy
tribulation ; but his perception of the extent
of that tribulation became indistinct ; his
sense of the situation was deadened. His
misery was no longer active, full of force
and energy : but dull and slow, as the sob

of the dying storm when the morning breaks
dim and sullen over turgid sea and wreck-strewn
shore, where the tempest beat out
the madness of its fury through the long
night.

He went back to his room, sat down near
the open window ; and stared, with sad,
fixed eyes, out over the tennis-lawn  on
which robins and starlings hopped to and fro,
searching for worms in the moist grass, 
to the meadow, with its great stag-headed
chestnut trees, that raised their ragged
branches towards the pensive blue-grey sky.

Exhausted with excitement and his night
of watching, the Colonel, after a brief period
of semi-consciousness, slept.

He dreamed that he stood once more in
the glaring Italian sunshine, on the terrace
of the Villa Mortelli. Jessie, in her simple,
light cotton dress, was beside him  brilliant,
merry, smiling, her arms full of great red
roses. She wanted something which he
was powerless to give her, and coaxed and
pleaded with him in pretty, laughing, childlike
fashion.  And then, somehow, the
scene changed. She had got Bertie Ames's

monkey in her arms instead of the roses.
She was going ivp a cold, wide, white marble
staircase, which seemed to stretch up and
up, far out of sight ; and Philip followed
her, always just a few steps behind. He
strained every nerve to get nearer to her ;
called to her, implored her to wait for him :
but still she flitted on lightly in front, always
just out of his reach, while the monkey,
looking over her - shoulder, grinned and
pointed at him. Philip was faint and
terribly weary. He could not move fast,
and she got farther and farther ahead.
Sometimes she looked back, smiling gaily,
seeming half inclined to stop, her soft
rounded cheek lying against the monkey's
wrinkled brown one in hideous proximity 
and all the while the stairs stretched on forever
and ever. Philip was driven forward
by a maddening necessity to overtake the
girl, to clasp her to him, to hold and keep her.
But he was very, very weak  it was impossible,
hopeless. Suddenly there came a great
sound of rushing water. Jessie flung back
a high massive door that loomed up in front
of her, opening on to vast spaces of drifting

gloom and vapour full of hurrying shapes.
The monkey's face had changed into a
man's now, which Philip knew, and yet did
not know.  He had seen it somewhere ;
hut he was sick with fruitless effort and
bewildered  he could not remember where.
He called aloud to Jessie once more,
desperately, wildly ; but she neither stayed
nor answered. The door swung to behind
her with a clang. And she, and the thing
she carried, fled away, and vanished in the
driving mist.

With his arms outstretched, the sound of
the closing door in his ears, and the cry on
his lips,  "Lost, lost!" Philip Enderby
awoke.

In this work-a-day world high romance
only deigns to visit us at intervals. Between
w T miles we have to deal with plain, prosaic,
vulgar matters, which we shall reckon an
indignity or a relief, according to our
humour. The first thing that met Philip's
distracted gaze, when he opened his eyes,
was the scarred, weather-beaten face of
Berrington, as that functionary entered the
room, carrying a luncheon-tray.

Shall I bring it to you there, sir, or will
you come across to the fire ? ' he asked
quietly.

The transition of thought seemed to
Philip too grossly incongruous in his present
state of agitation and excitement. He put
out his hand with a sharp movement of
repulsion.

Oh, put it where you like ! I don't
want anything," he said.

Berrington, however, was not disposed to
take an offhand refusal of this kind. He
drew up a table, and put the tray on it,
neatly setting the glasses in order, and turning
out the corners of the white napkin.

It's past two o'clock, sir  quite time
you had something," he said, with a touch
of respectful authority.

The Colonel shook his head in disgust.

"I can't eat. They say a man makes a
good breakfast when he's going to be hung ;
but it's too much to expect him to have
an appetite when he's in purgatory."

Berrington bent down and poured some
brandy into a tumbler with careful exactness.

"I'd give my right hand gladly to see

you-out of this, Colonel," lie said; and Lis
hard voice trembled.

Philip looked away over the quiet garden.
He stood too sorely in need of human
sympathy, just then, to he able to reject any
that came to him.

I believe you would  and I am grateful
to you. You've been the best servant tome
a man ever had, for years. But you will
never see me out of this, except one way."

It was a little time before Berrington
answered.

You must eat, sir, all the same," he
said presently. " There's no gain, I can
see, in starving."

Food, which brought back a measure of
physical strength, brought with it a renewed
capacity of mental suffering. For so long
every thought and aim of Philip Enderby's
existence had centred in his wife, in her happiness,
her amusements and employments :
and now it was all over between them.
His mind seemed a blank. The present was
incomprehensible, the future inconceivable.
He felt as one who has lost a limb. The brain
still sends out its message; but instead of

the answering movement, there is only the
weary ache of severed nerve and muscle 
only the horrible knowledge of mutilation.
And then, too, the memory of that ghastly
dream possessed him. Turn where he
would, he still seemed to see the monkey's
hateful changing face, or the girl's hastening
figure.

An imperative desire for space, for the
free air, came upon him. He picked up a
hat, and, passing through the anteroom and
hall, went out at the door, and along the
carriage-drive to wards the stables. He walked
quietly, stopping now and again and resting,
for exertion was difficult to him. Still, he
felt easier and less distressed out-of-doors.

The stables are almost hidden from the
windows of the Manor House itself by a
thick belt of lilac and laurel bushes, backing
the circular space of grass before the door.
They consist of a range of rather fine old
red-brick buildings, with high-pitched tiled
roofs, freely coated with grey and orange
lichens, while the front of them is covered
in closely clipped ivy. The clean neat yard
was empty, the groom and stable-helper
having gone to their dinner.

The Colonel had wandered on aimlessly;
there seemed no reason for going one way
rather than another. Then, because the day
was soft and mild, and because he himself
was purposeless and weary, he went and sat
down on the old stone mounting-block beside
the stable door. The shadows of the bare
branches of the neighbouring trees flickered
to and fro on the worn brick pavement at
his feet. Some flies, revived by the warmth
of the morning, and counting, like silly
prodigals, on the immediate arrival of
summer with its unlimited pleasure and
plenty, had crept out of holes and crannies,
and buzzed drowsily among the pungent ivy-leaves
on the wall behind him. The w T ind
was backing from south to east, and the
tarnished gilt vane on the end of the stable
creaked and grated as it turned unwillingly
in its rusty iron socket. Perched aloft, on
the topmost shoot of a young silver fir in
the shrubbery, a thrush was singing; and
the short broken cadences of the bird's song
formed themselves into a series of quaint
phrases and questions in Philip's dulled
brain. He sat quite still. He could hear

the horses munching their corn in the stable
through the half-open casement above him,
and the short, muffled stamp of their hoofs
on the bedding; and all the while the thrush
sang on.

It came over him that the thrushes
had sung like that in the merry springtime
at Bassett Darcy years ago, when
he was an ugly, lanky boy, petted in
secret by his mother, and knocked about a
bit by handsome, high-spirited Matt, who
found in him so willing an admirer and vassal .
But the birds' songs, alas ! carried a very
different message in those far-off days, to
the young lad with all the world before him.
They sang to him of fame and fair fortune,
of love, of bright eyes, and of the sweet
mystery of maidens' kisses ; of battle and
danger, and of glory ; of honour and faith,
and of high courage then. And of these
three last and best things, perhaps, the bird
sang still.  Philip Enderby was worn and
broken ; he could hardly tell. But for the
rest, he knew it sang all sadly  of grief that
knows no remedy, of pain that knows no
assuaging, of disillusion and disappointment,

of fond purposes broken like withered twigs
by the harsh winds of law and fate ; knew
that it questioned, half mockingly, if silence,
after all, is not kinder than speech, and
darkness kinder than light, and death kinder
than life. And through all the sad song
memories of the old home, which he had
loved and lost, to which he had turned with
strong yearning and desire in the hour of
his prosperity, called aloud to Philip, now
in the hour of his adversity, to come back 
back, and look again on lawn and wood and
river; to come back and dwell for a little
space in the magic land of childhood, that
is for most of us the Land of Promise too  a
Land of Promise which, worse luck, unlike
that of the children of Israel, lies behind us,
and not before.

There was a sound of footsteps. William,
in his tight-fitting, drab stable-clothes, came,
whistling cheerily, back from his dinner,
with a new halter in his hand. Seeing his
master, he looked at him queerly for a
moment : and then his hand, halter and all,
went hastily up to the brim of his hat.

Colonel Enderby rose stiffly from his seaton

the mounting-block ; yet lie had found a
vague promise of alleviation in the midst of
his misery.

I'll get home," he said half aloud ; " get
home, and see it all once more before I
die."

He called to the groom, who was unlocking
the harness-room door.

Put the saddle on the mare, William,"
he said; "I want her. You needn't take
her round. I'll wait here till she's ready."

It was over three months since the
Colonel had ridden. The unexpected order
and strange alteration in his master's appearance
struck William pretty forcibly.
He was a spare, lean-jawed fellow, blessed
with a small enough habit of observation
outside the strict limits of his calling ; butin
this case he aspired to have an opinion
of his own. He gave Colonel Enderby
another look, and then observed, with awkward
hesitation 

She ain't been out of the stable to-day,
sir."

"Well, she's all right, I suppose? she's
sound ? "

The groom shuffled his feet a little, and
passed the back of his hand across his mouth.

Oh, she's sound enough ! " he answered.
But I was thinking you ain't been riding
much, sir, lately, and you might find her a
bit over-fresh and heady."

The words were kindly enough meant ;
but they carried a sharp sting of vexation to
Colonel Enderby. This slight opposition
made him only the more obstinately determined
to have his own way.

"It's not my habit to give orders twice
over," he said curtly.

Beg your pardon, sir," murmured the
groom, as he stepped inside the harness-room,
and took a bridle down from its place
against the matted wall. "I'm blessed if
the Colonel looks any more fit to get on
that 'ere rampageous 'os than a week-old
baby ! " he said to himself.

A wretched sense of restlessness was upon
Philip Enderby still  a feeling common
alike to disease, and to what we call sorrow ;
but which, perhaps, is really only a subtler
form of disease. He wanted to get over to
Bassett directly. The big house, he knew,

VOL. III. T

was empty, Jack having had a pretty
sharp touch of gout  consequent on rather
too high living  and having gone off to
Brighton to recruit, with Augusta and the
children in his train. Philip would have
the place to himself, and that he was glad
of. But it seemed such a long time to him
waiting here. He wondered, half angrily,
whether a groom had ever been so slow
saddling a horse before. As to the risk he
incurred in taking a long ride his mind was
unhinged by illness and mental anguish and
he was past thinking or caring about it one
way or another. He only wanted to escape,
to get home.

A little scuffle and scrimmage as William
led the great handsome hunter out of the
doorway, and Philip mounted and rode away.
The mare, as had been predicted, proved
very sufficiently troublesome. A long rest
had cured her strained shoulder, and, like
Jeshurun of old, she had "waxed fat and
kicked." She was in a very larky train e of
mind, delighted at getting out of the stable,
and prepared to tax her rider's horsemanship
pretty shrewdly.

Perhaps it was just as well so. Colonel
Enderby settled himself down in the saddle.
Old habit and a sense of excitement,
possibly the superabundant vitality of the
great headstrong beast under him, roused
him into fuller life, and lightened the load
of his sorrow for the time being. It was
wonderfully pleasant to him  even now,
when things had reached this desperate
pass  to find himself across a horse again ;
to fight a little with the splendid animal
that resisted and defied him, and, by
patience and determination, to bring it
gradually under control.

The mare's vagaries kept him fully
occupied till he had passed out of the iron
gates  through which Jessie had swept in so
recklessly the previous afternoon, returning
from her meeting with Bertie Ames. Nor
did she subside into a decent and restrained
manner of going until, after passing the
church and the long straggling row of half-timbered
houses, which form the end of
Broomsborough village in that direction,
the Colonel found himself fairly started on
the Slowby high-road.

After crossing the red-brick bridge spanning
the brook, a tributary of the Tull,
that drains the winding valley betwen Clay-brooke
and Cold Enderby, there is a short
hill. At the top of it Philip checked the
mare. He turned sideways in the saddle,
rested his hand on her sleek quarters, and
looked back.

Beyond the silvery line of the brook,
lying warm and sheltered on the southern
exposure of the rising ground, the cottages
showing white among their little gardens,
was the village he had just left. Beyond,
again, where the rich, fertile bottom-lands
trend away to the right, he could see the
green rolling pastures of his own farm,
over which he had dawdled so peacefully
and unsuspiciously the day before.  It
seemed years ago that he had stood chatting*
with Essex about the stock and that " rare
lot 'er lambs ! " The southern windows of
the Manor House caught the sunlight, and
glistened, pale squares of brightness, among
the dark trees above the sweep of the
meadows.

The Colonel gazed back long and wistfully;

but he could see nothing clearly.
Those distant, nickering spots of light
danced before him. His eyes were full of
tears.

"I did the best I could to make her
happy. Ah, Jessie, Jessie, you will never
know how I have loved you ! "

His voice broke with a bitter sob. It
was so utterly vain, so infinitely sad.

"If it was only all over ! " he said to
himself.

Then Bassett Darcy seemed to call aloud
to him again to come home and rest. What
use could there be now in looking back
either actually or in spirit ? He set his
face like a flint; choked down the half-uttered
cry of despair ; turned in the saddle
again ; gave the mare her head ; and let
her go forward at a quiet, steady pace over
the strip of rough grass by the road.

And so Colonel Enderby rode on up the
long valley, with Melvin's Keeping, its
woods and deer park, lying misty in the
waning sunlight on the right. Sometimes
he passed a farmer's tax-cart, with two
broad-backed swaying figures in it ; or meta

rumbling waggon crawling slowly along
the muddy road. The smoke of a passing
train left a soft, wavering trail of white over
the pastures and dark hedges. A couple
of teams moved along the high range of
plough-land on the left, the men and horses
growing large and distinct against the background
of dull sky as they climbed the
shoulder of the hill. On past Lowcote
House, with its shadowy, brown plantations
and pleasant shimmering ponds, where the
coots and moriens chase each other, with
clear liquid cries, in and out among the tall
reeds and cat's-tails. On through Lowcote
village ; where the children, their day's
work over, rushed clamouring out from the
low sandstone schoolhouse, with its row
of large dusty windows, and clustered in
groups and gangs on the footpath, playing
marbles, laughing, teasing, scolding in shrill
young voices. On again, up the steep
rutted lane that skirts the thick fox-covert
at Wood-end, and leads to the open tableland
above. On between broad bare fields
and ill-kept hawthorn hedges, across a
stretch of raw, yellowish-red country, where

even the straight trunks and round heads of
the ubiquitous elm trees do not break the
dreary sameness of the landscape ;  past
Stoney Cross, with its four uninteresting
roads and hamlet of mean, ill-looking houses,
huddling about a few roods of waste land,
where stand the worn steps and broken shaft
of a wayside cross.  On, one long weary
mile after au other, with the fixed stare in
his blue eyes, and the broken-hearted craving
for home and rest, rode Philip Enderby.

The mare had grown quiet by this time,
and her rider was thankful for it. He was
nearly spent. He began to fear his strength
would give out before the end of the journey.
The thud of the horse's hoofs formed itself
into an ever-recurring rhythm, which beat
into his brain with distressing persistence.
He leaned forward, and looked longingly for
the first glimpse of the twisted chimneys of
the cottages in Priors Bassett street.

The aspect of the weather had changed
greatly during the last hour. The sun was
lost behind a layer of dull grey cloud that
spread rapidly, eating up the tender blue of
the sky. The wind, which had been light

and variable during the morning, now blew
harshly from the east ; and the breath of it
seemed to bleach all the land, taking the
colour out of it, and making both earth and
sky wan and sad.

Along Priors Bassett street Philip rode
slowly. He knew every house in it, every
yellow-brown sandstone gable-end, every
yard of w r all and painted wooden paling,
every strip of garden between the low house
fronts and the raised footpath skirting the
road. But to-day the street seemed interminable
: to-day it looked strangely vacant
and forsaken. The whole interest of the
place was concentrated round the forge,
which glared red under its sloping slate roof,
showing sharp against the darkness behind
them the figures of the men working within.
Some carts and farm implements in process
of mending stood on the untidy patch of
ground in front of it : while a company of
lads loitered, in awkward, hobbledehoy
fashion, about the open doors  surreptitiously
appropriating scraps of old iron and
other interesting refuse of the establishment
when nobody happened to be looking.

Drama is conspicuous by its absence in
Bassett. And Mrs. Mumford, the sour-sweet,
madonna-faced wife of the worthy
rector, was never tired of subsequently recounting
how she and three of her dear
children  precise, self-conscious little beings,
by the way, their limp, fair hair curled in
the smooth sausage-like manner that obtained
so universally some twenty years
ago, and that lingers yet in a few respectably
unprogressive families  how she and the
children had met Colonel Enderby that afternoon,
just as they were coming out of the
rectory gate. The good lacey, who, with a
deep-seated belief in the security of her own
social position, combined a lively desire for
recognition of the said position on the part of
others, was sadly put about by the fact that
Colonel Enderby failed, in passing, to look
at her, or return her salute. Later, things
explained themselves ; and Mrs. Mumford
had her hour of enviable notoriety.

And, in truth, the Colonel had no strength
left just now for small social amenities. He
rode on doggedly and resolutely; his face
pale and rigid as though it had been carved

in stone, his eyes fastened on the road, justin
front of his horse's head. The last few
miles had been as much as he could manage.
The excitement that nerved him at starting
had evaporated; the emotion that had
quickened him w r hen looking back at the
Manor House had passed away, leaving his
mind more than ever confused and dim.
Pain and utter weariness of body increased
upon him, and it was just as much as he
could do to guide the mare and keep himself
upright in the saddle. With a dull, but
half-conscious sense of relief, he heard the
park gate swing-to behind him.

But Bassett Darcy, on this particular
afternoon, wore anything but a cheerful
aspect w T with which to greet her returning
son. The wide rolling slopes of the park
showed a dirty, neutral tint, dotted here
and there with the darker tones of the
gnarled twisted thorn thickets. The clumps
of larger trees rose gaunt and spectral
through the livid easterly blight. Down on
the low land, shrouding the massive house
and its adjacent buildings, and spreading
like a grey winding-sheet along the course of

the river, hung the fog ; stagnating in the
shelter, and drifting sullenly to westward,
where the wind caught and drove it. The
mare plunged and snorted as the rough
Scotch cattle, getting up from the roadside,
started away a few paces; and then, turning,
stared fiercely, tossing their wild shaggy
heads and wide horns in the air. The
serious midland scene had, for the moment,
something weird and unreal about it. And,
like Intra of old, calm of face, pure in
heart, but hard beset with strange sights,
strange torments, strange temptations,
Philip Enderby rode down into that dreary
valley of shadow.

The big house, with all its blinds drawn
down, stood deserted. Silence reigned, not
only indoors, but out-of-doors as well  save
for the rattle of the mare's hoofs on the
cobbles, as the Colonel turned her in under
the stable archway. In the courtyard not a
soul was to be seen.

The Colonel got off his horse with
difficulty, and stood for some minutes, with
his hand resting on the creature's shoulder.
He was cold and cramped, and the ground

seemed to reel under his feet. Stiffly and
painfully, half-stupefied with weakness, he
got one of the stable doors open, and,
backing the mare into an empty stall,
fastened the pillar rein on either side to the
rings of her bit. Then, passing through
the archway again, he went away up the
carriage-drive, under the double flight of
stone steps, and round to the garden front
of the house.

The fog streamed by, thick, chill, and
clinging before the easterly wind. It veiled
everything beyond an area of some few
yards in grey semi-obscurity. Colonel Enderby
went on, very slowly, along the
terrace  the house, with its many closed
windows, rising grim and dark on his left
hand. He wandered on, stopping every
few steps to get his breath  wandered on,
hardly comprehending why or where he
went, urged forward by that same terrible
instinct of restlessness. Turning off the
terrace, he struck down across the lawns
in the direction of the little w T good which
clothes the promontory of land in the curve
of the river. The smooth grass was slippery

with fog ; the air grew more dense and
clammy. It took him a long time to get
down over the lawn to the outskirts of thew
r good. He moved uncertainly, stumbling
now and then, and recovering his footing
with difficulty.

There was a path through the wood
somewhere, he knew, if he could only find
it, leading to an old wooden boat-house and
summer-house fronting on the river. Philip
had not thought of the place for years :
yet suddenly he was possessed with an
overmastering desire to see it again.  It
used to be a pleasant spot on still summer
evenings. His mother liked it. She would
sit there and watch Matt and him, as
they punted about on the sluggish stream,
angling diligently for fish which as
diligently refused to be caught. If he
could only find the path, he would go back
there now and rest.  He was in pain:
pain which grew stronger and sharper every
minute : and he was so unutterably, so
cruelly tired.

The fog lifted a little.

Philip pushed forward over the sodden

leaves, while fallen twigs snapped under his
tread. He groped about, trying earnestly
to find the path ; but he could not see his
way. He w T as half blind with pain and
exhaustion.  And it was all changed, too ;
the underwood had grown up thick and
tangled since he was here last.

He struggled on : stumbled, almost fell ;
got on to his feet again, struggled on a little
further. He tried to raise his arm to shield
his face from the low sweeping branches
and briars; but he could not raise it ; it was
numb and nerveless.  Again he stumbled,
and fell forward. He had a moment of unreasoning,
passionate anger, like that of a
disappointed child.  He had missed the way
altogether, and got back to the outskirts of
the wood again. It was unspeakably hateful
to be like this  helpless, feeble, bewildered.
The man's pride rebelled under it.

He leaned up against the smooth silvery
trunk of a great beech on the edge of the
wood. He was racked with pain ; utterly
desolate and despairing. Had Bassett
called him home only to mock at and shame
him? to make him know his own physical

infirmity and disgrace ? to show him how
low he had fallen ?

Then, in the midst of his intolerable
humiliation, a great light broke upon Philip
Enderby's soul. Suddenly he understood
what was about to happen. He had a
perception of a mighty and final deliverance.

He braced his shoulder against the stem
of the beech tree. His bodily suffering was
keen and bitter : but his mind was clearer
than it had been since he parted with his
wife in the drawing-room of the Manor
House in the morning, and with that clearness
of mind came a sense of peace.

This is death," he said to himself 
gracious, kindly death. It is coming at
last. God is good, after all. He sends the
recall when He sees we can't stand it any
longer."

He stood and waited  awed but calm and
very thankful, for the thing that should
come to him.

In the last few minutes the wind had
risen, scattering the fog, which rolled away
in heavy, opaque masses down the valley.
Philip raised his head, and looked once

more, with all the wonder of dying eyes, at
the place which he loved ;  heard the rush
of the wind and the call of the rooks in the
high trees overhead ; heard the rabbit scurry
away through the undergrowth ; heard the
splash of the rising fish, and the gurgle and
sweep of the river ;  saw between the tree-stems
the great square house standing
stately above its broad, fair lawns and
shrubberies ; saw the western sky open in
dull crimson between heavy bars of low-lying
cloud, and the sun sink, a ball of
sullen flame, behind the rounded masses of
the distant woods.

Farewell, dear old earth!' he said.
"You and I, too, have been lovers."

The fierce agony of pain came on him
again  a dreadful tearing apart of soul and
body, in which the man's faith and reason
almost fainted. He staggered forward
blindly for a few yards.

Jessie, you are free," he gasped. " Ah !
God be merciful  be merciful to me a
sinner ! "

Then he fell back his whole length on the
ground, among the rotting leaves and the
coarse grass and the sedges.

Nature strikes one as but a heartless and
heedless mistress at times. She has no
tears to shed even for those who have
worshipped her most devoutly, when they
pass out into the eternal silence. In the
vast circle of her perfect order and endless
fertility Death is no blot, no inscrutable
mystery. It has its place duly set and
apportioned; and appears, not an accident
at once revolting and incomprehensible, but
rather as an act of restoration. It gives
back to her  worn, soiled, and tattered  the
fleshly garment she lent the human spirit
at its birth, to make, in due process of time,
over again into new forms of freshness,
wonder, and beauty.

That night at Bassett Darcy the wind
swept the heavens clear of cloud, and the
keen stars came out one by one in the great
vault overhead, and the river slipped by,
with its sweet liquid whisper, under the
dark trees, between its low rush-grown
banks. The rabbits played together in the
dusk on the flat grass meadow ; and the
owes came from their covert, and sailed, on
.broad, silent wings, round the woods and

vol. in. u

the house, hailing each other, in love or
challenge, with ghostly hollow-voiced greetings.
In the small hours of the morning
the frost crept up from the stream-side, and
whitened all the lawns with a glittering film
of innumerable crystals. And all the while
Philip Enderby, who had loved" and suffered,
and wrestled with temptation, and strained
manfully after a noble ideal of living, lay
there alone, stark and cold, his sightless
blue eyes half open, and the surprise of
everlasting rest on his dead lips.

What shall we say ? Is it a thought of
strong consolation or of terror, that the fate
of each one of us matters so little ; and that
the great world rolls on, from age to age,
serene and fearless, as careless of the birth
and death of her human children as she is
of the gnat that flickers through one bright
hour above the sw r saying reed-bed, or of the
hoar frost that vanishes into nothingness
under the first kiss of the sun at morning ?
Ah ! love us, in pity love us, brother
mortals : for Nature, in her greatness, is
deaf and blind to all our sorrow and complaining,
and when we go hence nothing

stays to mourn for us either in earth or sky.
Stay you, then, and mourn at least for a
season.  It is vain to hope the most faithful
among you will mourn us for long.

CHAPTER Y.

BENEDICK THE MARRIED MAN."

More than three years have passed away.
It is June  June in the south too, as you
may see by the depth of shade cast by the
projecting angle of the tall yellow house
behind you. A garden, brilliant with
flowers, cut at many different levels out on
the steep hillside, with small paths, numerous
flights of steps, half overgrown with creepers
a garden, the geography of which it is
difficult to master at first sight, but whose
charm grows upon you with acquaintance 
stretches down to a wall backing a line of
low, grass-grown earthworks. Beyond is a
road, with a wide parapet on the farther side
of it ; and then the dancing, sparkling, purple
sea. To the right, between tall, solitary,
painted houses, and looking across the

patches of vineyard and garden, you can seethe
city, with its great half-circle of splendid
quays and buildings facing the crowded harbour.
Above are the mountains. And to the
west is the long sweep of the serrated coastline
 sharp and clear in the sunlight, and
blotted in the shadow with deep blue haze.

On the flat strip of ground between the
garden wall and the earthworks, a quantity
of shot is piled in black dazzling pyramids
and squares : and a little farther on stands
a small, grim, windowless building, before
which a sentry, in white linen gaiters, pale
blue uniform, and white covered Jcepi,
slowly paces to and fro. You have seen the
spot before, reader ; but with other eyes and
under other circumstances, so it is worth
while to run through the list of its attractions
once again.

In the deep shadow, cast by the angle of
the house  with glass doors opening into a
cool, vaulted, painted hall on his right, and
a row of red and white oleander bushes in
full flower on his left  extended in a long
cane chair, and clad in the lightest of summer
suits, Mr. Ames, a cigarette between his

lips, idly contemplated the brilliant scene
around him. Bertie Ames has changed
somewhat in these last three years. He has
filled out a good deal, his figure has lost a
little of its original slimness, and the expression
of his dark, handsome, sleepy face
has grown more decided. Heaven forbid
that I should suggest that he has grown
stout or truculent ! To the end Mr. Ames
will be a graceful-looking person, and will
retain a delicate flavour of indifference and
polite cynicism in manner.

His chair stood across the corner of a large,
many-coloured carpet, spread on the gravel
before the window; on which, half-sitting,
half-lying, with a multitude of toys and
infantine treasures scattered about her,
Eleanor Ames played with her year-old baby
a dimpled, sturdy, brown-limbed darling,
his great eyes filled w T with the happy content
of a creature to whom the world as yet has
shown only a smiling face.

A famous writer tells us that marriage is
a taming process. To some women motherhood
is a more taming process still. In the
tender forethought, ceaseless watchfulness,

and anxiety of motherhood, Eleanor Ames
had not only grown more gentle and un-exacting;
but had found the truest and
purest satisfactions of her life. She had not
the temperament which goes to make a
happy woman. Few persons whose sensibilities
are keen can have that. But in this
cooing, clinging morsel of humanity  whose
tiny fat hands, with funny uncertain gestures,
dabbed down the towers she so diligently
erected for him, flinging the wooden bricks
over her gown and the carpet with gurgling
of the liveliest delight  she came nearer
laying hold of that much-vaunted yet practically
almost unknown quantity, of happiness,
than ever before.

Bertie stretched himself in his long chair,
and yawned a little.

"It was infernally hot on 'Change today,"
he said, in his soft, drawling voice.
One felt like those excellent Jewish
youths in the fiery furnace, with this difference
 that whereas they were cast into it
because they refused to worship the golden
image, we cast ourselves into it voluntarily,
in a spirit of emulation, to try who could

worship her most successfully. Really it
is inspiring to note the vastness of one's
own capacity of deterioration. I cared the
very least possible about making money
when I first went into business : and now I
dream, not of you, Nell  don't indulge in
any charming delusions upon that head  as
I sit here watching your gambols with that
delectable infant Bacchus, but simply and
solely of dollars and cents. Families descensus
Avemi. That remark was made a longtime
ago ; but it holds good still, you know."

His wife looked up from the tower she
was just completing  the baby sitting by
with round, serious eyes, one thumb stuck
into his rosebud of a mouth, while with the
other hand he caressed his bare toes, as they
protruded from under the short skirts of his
full white frock.

"You enjoy making the w r worst of yourself,
Bertie," she answered; " and that is
only a more subtle kind of self-conceit,
after all."

"True," he rejoined, with admirable mildness.
"But one must cultivate a certain
measure of conceit to keep one's self going

at all ; and a subtle form of it is less offensive
than a gross one, any way, isn't it ? "

Eleanor turned her attention to the baby.

"Now, sweetest, it is ready. Look! so
very high. That's right, both hands, and
down it all goes,"  as the tower fell with a
mimic crash to the ground.

"You will bring that boy up to be an
iconoclastic socialist and red republican, if
you pander to his destructive and disorderly
inclinations in this open way," remarked
Mr. Ames.

He chucked the end of his cigarette away
under the red-stemmed, long-leaved oleander
bushes ; and rested his elbows on the arms
of his chair, pressing the tops of his fingers
together as he leant back again indolently
and looked at his handsome wife between
half-closed eyelids.

The deterioration of my character," he
continued, " was brought home very forcibly
to me to-day by an encounter I had with
an old acquaintance, coming stewing up the
Orifice  to return to the interesting subject
of myself. I feel communicative, Nell ; but
it is quite unnecessary you should listen

unless you are so disposed.  I was reminded
of the past, of certain passages in my
experiences which were not without a touch
of pathos. Just under Viola's Madonna,
I ran right into the arms of that worthy
little gentleman, Edmund Drake. He was
quite affectionate to me, having a heavy
cargo of conversation on board apparently,
and no English ear wherein to discharge it.
I asked him to dinner."

Ah ! I hoped we should have been alone
for once to-night," said Mrs. Ames, quickly.
-" Somebody is always coming. I am disappointed.
 My precious one, you must not
suck that nasty little red horse ; all the paint
w r ill come of'. Come, come ! give it to
mother, like a good child."

It was a Christian act, Nell, I assure
you. He was absolutely explosive with the
desire to find some one to whom to speak.
He told me several edifying little scraps of
gossip. To begin with, our dear aunt, Mrs.
Murray, has had a seizure ; and Cecilia is
nursing her day and night like an angel.
There is a rumour that a Tullingworth
doctor, who is supposed once to have entertained

tender sentiments towards her 
Cecilia, I mean ; not her mother  has settled
a large sum of money on that little scamp
Johnnie. The doctor must be more or less
of a fool. The money, of course, will goas
poor Eugene's went, in ways that had
best not be too closely inquired into."

Bertie Ames paused for a minute or two,
and yawned again just a trifle elaborately.

Mr. Drake inquired about Jessie," he
said presently.

Eleanor bent her head low over the baby,
and gently tried to remove the tempting
mouthful of little red horse from between
his pouting lips.

Had he not heard, then ? "
Apparently not, so I enlightened him.
I told him how Mr. Lewis J. Vandercrup's
neatness of personal appearance, supported
by a chocolate-brown fronted house on Fifth
Avenue, a cottage at Newport, an apartment
in the Boulevard Haussmann, a villa at Nice,
fast trotting horses, a steam-yacht, and
modest, unostentatious, little offerings in
the way of packing-cases full of diamonds,
had entirely won Jessie Enderby's affections.

Ci

LI

Drake swore a little, and then asked if the
marriage was a hapjoy one. I told him we
had reason to believe that the lady was
perfectly satisfied, and that the gentleman
had attained his highest ambition in possessing
the most expensive wife in New York,
which, I imagine, is saying a good deal.
Upon that, I grieve to say, Mr. Drake
became extremely blasphemous. It was
specially awkward, for two virginal, high-nosed
Englishwomen, in green gauze veils,
were looking in furtively at the shop
windows just behind us. Why, I wonder,"
added Mr. Ames, with an air of gentle
inquiry, " do Englishwomen always look in
at shop windows furtively, as though they
w r ere in the act of committing a petty
larceny, and were afraid of being taken red-handed?
 However, I bore with him. He
appeared so extremely apoplectic that I
fancied it would be wiser to let him have it
out. When he had blown off his steam, he
asked after you. He was good enough to
bracket me with poor Colonel Enderby ; to
tell me I had always known which side my
bread was buttered ; to intimate that I was

an acute person, and, matrimonially, had
got very much the hest of the bargain."

"What did you answer, Bertie?" asked
Eleanor, looking up at him suddenly, with
a flush on her cheek.

"Ah! my dear," he cried, half laughing,
you don't need to have that recounted at
this time of day, do you ? Surely, now, it
is quite a matter of ancient history."

The flush deepened in Mrs. Ames's cheek.
She drew the baby towards her, and pressed
her face against his fat brown shoulder.

"There are some chapters of ancient
history a woman can hardly read too often,"
she said, perhaps a trifle proudly.

Your husband must be a brute if he
does not love you, Nell," rejoined Bertie.

He stretched out his hand over the arm
of his chair towards her as he spoke. The
baby clutched at it with soft dimpled fingers,
raised himself bravely into a standing
position, stuck first one foot and then the
other straight out in front of him  having
still a greater inclination to regard those
members as agreeable playfellows than as
serious aids to the process of locomotion :

and finally, losing his balance, descended
with, a flop in a sitting posture upon the
carpet again. The said flop jarred his small
person, and he gazed round with a piteous
and tearful demand for sympathy.

"It serves you right, you officious little
animal," his father said. "It wasn't your
hand I wanted, you know, but your
mother's."

Eleanor rose to her feet, picked up the
child, and stood, a stately well-poised
figure, her head raised, and the black lace
she w r ore falling in dusky folds over her
shoulders, looking out far across the glittering
bay.

"Ah! poor Philip Enderby," she cried
suddenly. "I am frightened when I think
of him as I stand here with my boy in my
arms, in the midst of all this ease and
beauty and comfort. God forgive me, if I
did him a cruel injury ! "

Bertie smiled quietly ; and shaded his
eyes with his hand as he looked at her, so
as to get a better view. Undeniably his
w 7 ife appeared to great advantage just now.

"You have still rather an excessive way

of stating things, Nell," he said, in his rich,
sweet tones. " There is quite another point
of view from which the question may be
regarded, and to which I venture to call
your attention. If he had married Cecilia
years ago, if he had never fallen in love
with that fascinating being, Jessie  mark
you, I don't join in Mr. Drake's anathemas
by any means  Colonel Enderby would have-remained
a very ordinary, prejudiced, stiffened
English soldier and gentleman, and
the world would never have dreamed of
what he was capable. You gave him his
opportunity. He had the wit to take it.
He became something of a hero. Of course,
heroism demands certain sacrifices. Well,.
I must say Colonel Enderby made them ina
very praiseworthy manner. He never liked
me, but I bear him no malice, you see ; I do
him justice."

She turned to him rather sternly.

Don't jest about this, Bertie," she said.
Let us keep a few memories sacred. Let
there be a few things we don't push aside
with an easy shrug of the shoulders and a
cynical laugh."

Bertie Ames sat up, and a strange expression
crossed his face. His eyes were sad
enough still at moments. They were very
sad now, as he looked full and steadily at
his wife.

My dear Nell, you are guilty of doing
me a slight injustice," he answered. " Perhaps
I have paid a more practical tribute to
Colonel Enderby's memory than any one
else, after all. I don't w r ant to exalt my
own small virtues ; but remember, I found
myself left alone, under highly critical circumstances,
with his widow, who, being at
daggers drawn with all her friends and
neighbours, was thrown with rather dangerous
completeness upon my hands."

He rose to his feet, came over, and,
standing by his wife, rested his hand lightly
on her shoulder, and then kissed the baby,
as it lay smiling in her arms.

"I am not a very sentimental person,"
he went on gently, " but I don't put
quite everything aside, Nell, with a laugh
and shrug of the shoulders  even so. I
often think of the frosty February morning,
with the pale, primrose-coloured sunrise,

after that wretched night of fruitless
search, when Drake and I found Philip
Enderby lying under the bare trees beside
that quiet English river.  It was a thing
one does not easily forget. I should be
very glad to know that my face would have
no worse secrets to tell than that man's had
when I, too, lie dead.  There, there ! what's
the matter with you ? Why, my dear, you
are charmingly soft-hearted !  But here's
Parker, looking for all the world as if she
thought I'd been beating you, coming to
fetch the baby. It's time for you to go in
and dress. Put on a nice gown, and finish
the conquest of good little Drake. I like
to hear men say my wife is the handsomest
woman, of her age, in Genoa, you know."

When he was alone, Bertie Ames lay
back comfortably in his long chair again.
The deep shadow of the house got narrow
and narrower as the sun moved towards
the west ; there were sweet scents in the
air from the blooming garden, and a low
murmur of the sea and of the distant turmoil
and life of the great urgent city.

Bertie had been a good deal stirred some-vol.

III. x

how, and lie did not altogether enjoy it.
In matters of feeling lie was still decidedly
indolent. Emotion is a dangerous, unstable
tiling, the mother of innumerable follies.
He did his best, therefore, to eschew her
company.

Meanwhile, round the end of the house,
stopping nervously every minute or two,
w r with rapid angry glances and quick listings
of the eyebrows, came a very woebegone,
little figure. The monkey scuffled along
near the ground, holding up the links of a
broken chain, that dangled from a broad
leathern band round his waist, in one thin,
skinny hand. He crept under the shelter of
the oleanders, and waited there, peering
anxiously about him, chattering to himself,
and showing his broken, discoloured teeth,
half in wickedness and half in fear  reaching
up now and then as he squatted on his,
haunches, and scratching his ugly old head,
with the hand that was disengaged, in deep
perplexity.

Bertie Ames rolled himself another cigarette,
struck a match and lighted it. Ashe
did so, Malvolio crawled out from his

hiding-place, and came and cowered silently
against his master's knee.

"Ah, you abominable little sinner! " said
the latter, looking down at the creature.
You've broken your chain, and got loose
again, then, have you ? "

Malvolio sidled closer to him, gazing up
with an air of pathetic misery into his face.
With all his affectation of cynicism and dislike
of emotion, Mr. Ames was at bottom
very tender-hearted. He picked up the
monkey, held it in his arms, and began
fondling it.

You are very faithful, you poor little
devil," he said gently. " It seems hardly
fair to have you banished and beaten because
you had just humanity enough in you to get
an acute attack of jealousy, and try to bite
and belabour that reigning favourite of the
establishment, the baby.  But you can't
expect to indulge your small eccentricities
with impunity any more than the rest of us.
In a way, it is a compliment to the primeval
ape, our common ancestress, and proves her
claims, that both branches of her descendants,
notwithstanding slight outward differences,

should be judged by the same
law."

Bertie Ames mused for a few seconds in
silence, softly patting the dismal-looking
little beast that nestled against him.

"No," he went on presently; " you
cannot expect to get off scot-free any more
than others, Malvolio. There is a price seton
everything in this world. Not only on
vice, and ugliness, and crime, and weakness,
and folly : but on love, and youth, and
beauty, and virtue, and faith, and honour as
well. And we all pay it rigorously."

He shrugged his shoulders, and laughed a
little.

Pay it ? Good heavens ! I should just
think we did. We pay it down to the
uttermost farthing. ' '

