CHAPTER I.

* Speaking in parable, I am Colin Clout.
A clinging flavour penetrates my life 
My onion is imperfectness : I cleave
To nature's blunders, evanescent types
Which sages banish from Utopia."

The Parish of Claybrooke was agitated.

,r Not by any public event of world-wide
interest. Wars and the rumours of them

" affected the apathetic life of this mica

land village very slightly. All Europe

 might have been given over to fire and

.> sword, and Claybrooke, meanwhile, would

have remained serenely neutral, so long

as bread did not " go up," and beasts

fetched a fair price at Slowby market

> VOL. I. B

on Thursdays. Local interests were the
only real interests of its inhabitants.
The year 1815, for example, was unimportant,
save as being the year following
the great snow, when six of Mr. Robins's
sheep were buried for a matter of eight
days in a drift, down against the hedge, by
the towing path. Again, the year 1854
was rendered more memorable by the fact
that old Mr. Stanley of Highthorne was
killed by a fall from his horse, on a Tuesday
in the third week in January, just by
the corner of the fox-covert on the Locate
Road, than by the battle of Inkermann or
the bombardment of Sevastopol.

Claybrooke rigidly applied what mind
it possessed to its own affairs. The Christian
charity or dull dislike of its inhabitants
seemed alike incapable of extending
beyond a radius of some eight or ten miles.
Outside the sacred circle of neighbourhood
nothing appeared very interesting or important.
That existence should be possible

in other and more distant regions
seemed strange. That life should really
be worth living to people who had never
been to Slowby market ; had never hunted
with the Midlandshire hounds ; had never
dined seriously, and with an agreeable sense
of dignity and importance, at the tables of
the neighbouring county magnates ; had
never been to a clerical meeting at the
Archdeacon's, or seen Mr. Gerald Main-waring,
in gray breeches and gaiters, representing
all the majesty of the English
law to apple-stealing youths, on the bench
of magistrates at Slowby,  that life, I
say, should be in any way important or
desirable to persons unacquainted with
these things and debarred from these
high privileges, seemed almost incredible
to the Claybrooke mind.

But if the sympathies of Claybrooke
were not wide, they were certainly deep.
There not being many events in this
quiet neighbourhood to observe, the few

events that did occur were very thoroughly
talked over and thought over. The joys
of gossip were by no means unknown.
The satisfaction arising from the discovery
of an acquaintance's mistakes and shortcomings
was a form of satisfaction freely
indulged in. A delicate movement of
self-complacency in face of the sins and
misfortunes of friends and relations is
at least as common in the quiet country
as in the busy town ; and the judgments
of Claybrooke were not one whit more just
or merciful than human judgments are
usually wont to be. Yet men and women
struggled to be pure and unselfish ; they
nursed the sick and fed the hungry; they
loved and forgave ; they lived in godly
fear and died fortified by eternal hope, in
this unimportant, little, midland parish as
elsewhere in this confusing world.

At the time of which I write, a cloud
had hung over Claybrooke Rectory for
many long weeks. Far away, among olive

grounds and orange gardens by the shores
of the distant Mediterranean, a man was
fighting gallantly, but hopelessly, against
the great enemy Death ; and a beautiful
woman sat watching, in dread and strange
amazement, the progress of the bitter
struggle. At home, in the stately old
Rectory - house, kind hearts waited and
hoped against hope. The news was bad
enough in the autumn ; it grew worse and
worse through the winter months ; and in
the softer days of February, when the
frost had given place to mist and fog over
the heavy clay lands, and the first snowdrops
pushed their way up through the
black garden mould, Mr. and Mrs. Main-waring
learned that Robert Lorimer was
dead, and that Elizabeth  their niece 
who had left them, as a bride, not two years
ago, was coming back to them a widow.

Every one, I suppose, has wasted half
an hour, at some period during the course
of his childhood, in dropping pebbles

into a still pond or pool, and watching
the graceful rings which, after the first
little splash, spread themselves in ever-widening
circles over the face of the water.
A good-sized pebble had, so to speak,
dropped into the social pool at Clay-brooke
Rectory on that (foggy February day,
in consequence of which a series of gentle
undulations of surprise, interest, and pity,
spread themselves over the quiet surface
of the county society for some ten or
fifteen miles round. Kind-hearted country
squires, in after-dinner talk over their
claret, pitied the handsome young creature,
left alone in the world, with no husband to
care for or child to cheer her. They deplored,
too, the trouble that had fallen on
Mr. Mainwaring ; for everybody, whose
opinion was worth anything, held that a
more thoroughly good fellow, or a better
man across country  notwithstanding his
sixty and odd years  could not be found.
And though it must be owned that in

proportion as a man likes his niece, he will
probably dislike the man she marries, it was
known that certain very dear hopes depended
on Elizabeth Lorimer's marriage, which Mr.
Mainwaring would find it hard to relinquish.
The clergy, too, were full of solicitude
concerning both the uncle and the niece,
for the Rector of Claybrooke was held
in high repute by the majority of his
brethren. Perhaps his reputation was
greater from the social than from the professional
standpoint. Mr. Mainwaring was
the last representative of an old Midland-shire
family, and had married, early in
life, a lady whose connections held a high
position among the local aristocracy. Her
brother. Sir Selling Belford of Belford,
was a man of considerable standing in
the north of the county. The baronetcy,
indeed, dated from those stormy and
troublous times when " the King's Parliament
sat at Oxford,"  a fact which the
Selfords never ignored, when a chance

of referring to it arose in ordinary conversation.
Mr. Mainwaring, therefore,
was regarded as supplying that secure
link between the lay and clerical worlds
which is too often missing. And when
Mr. Leeper, the newly-inducted vicar of
Lowcote,  who had come into the neighbourhood,
hot from town work, full of
views, and of a desire that the clergy
should "stand shoulder to shoulder," and
defy an indifferent and untoward generation
of laity,  annoyed by some rather
sharp observations of Mr. Mainwaring's
at a ruridecanal meeting, ventured to
describe that reverend gentleman as a
fox-hunting Erastian," and to compare
him to the oft-quoted Gallic, he discovered,
very shortly, that he had made a terrible
mistake. Even Mr. Harbage of High-thorn
 a mild, fair, and rather stout
person, who, in the interests of four marriageable
daughters, had always appeared
very anxious to conciliate Mr. Leeper

reminded him that the Bishop stayed
quite as often at Claybrooke Rectory ashe
did at the Archdeacon's, and that it
was hardly becoming in a new-comer to
criticise so respected a member of one
of the oldest families in the county.

It must also be noted that a death in
itself is generally interesting. Marriages
demand time to develop symptoms of happiness
or misery before they afford very
much subject for conversation. Births are
too common to create very much excitement,
as a rule. But a death immediately
supplies matter for meditation, which appears
to be fairly agreeable to all except
perhaps the very young. The details of
illness, and reminiscences of friends or near
relations who have suffered from the same
malady  always, strangely enough, in a
very aggravated form ; the feelings of the
survivors ; the amount of the estate of the
deceased  all afford edifying matter for
thought and conversation. To some few

minds the more spiritual and everlasting
aspects of the matter may present themselves.
A small minority will lose themselves
in speculations concerning the great
Hereafter ; and in " obstinate questionings
" regarding that mysterious and impenetrable
curtain, which the hand of death
suddenly draws between us and those who
have been " bone of our bone and flesh of
our flesh," whose looks and habits, whose
speech, whose very clothes, are among the
most familiar of our daily impressions.

But undoubtedly the concrete and the
finite present themselves much more readily
to most people, than the abstract and
the infinite. In the dull country neighbourhood
around Claybrooke, people, asa
rule, lived long. " Wearing out " is
next to impossible in such an atmosphere ;
and " rusting out "  that process so terrible
in theory to young and ardent minds 
is in truth a very lengthy business, compatible
with much quiet usefulness, and

synonymous, in the majority of cases, with
living to a good old age.

Most of the neighbouring clergy, who
as slim youths fresh from the universities
had married years ago and settled in their
pleasant parsonage houses, were now well
on in middle life. But though they had
grown bulky in figure, with much sitting
over sermons ; though some had a slight
disposition to rheumatic pains when the
winter cold set in ; and though all observed
more wrinkles and gray hairs than were
altogether pleasant, as they gazed into
their looking-glasses during the operation
of shaving in the morning,  no one of them
all had the faintest intention of leaving his
children fatherless, or his worthy wife a
widow, for many years to come. Therefore
that so young a man as Robert
Lorimer should die seemed, it must be
confessed, somewhat strange and alarming.
Several gentlemen had their greatcoats
refined with a view to keeping out March

winds, lest any chest should be more
susceptible of cold than its owner had
hitherto suspected. Mr. Jones, the Clay-brooke
curate, went so far as to appear in a
new woollen comforter and pair of India-rubber
overshoes,  much to the distress
of a young clerical neighbour of sporting
proclivities, who had volunteered to drive
him over to the meeting of the Board of
Guardians at Slowby ; and who felt that
his neat dog-cart and high-stepping cob
were most painfully compromised by his
companion's personal appearance. People
who know what is what do not wear
comforters or goloshes in Midlandshire !
In the winter you should straddle a little,
with your hands under your coat tails, in
front of a roaring fire, conscious that your
shooting boots and gaiters defy any
amount of wet and mud ; and talk in
robust and cheerful tones of the fine
seasonable weather, however intolerable
the cold or penetrating the damp may be

outside. If any thoughts concerning the
prevalence of disease or the shortness of
human Hfe assail you, it is wonderful how
an extra glass of sherry, after luncheon,
will restore the naturally hopeful tone of
your mind, and enable you to feel a comfortable
assurance that you " are good for
many years yet."

On the whole, men's emotions are more
simple and kindly than those of women.
Their minds are, so to speak, like ordinary
houses, with one front and one back
staircase  you know they must go up by
one or the other to get to the upper rooms.
While women's minds may be fitly compared
to those queer, old, country mansions
which are full of little unnecessary flights of
stairs,  you can never be sure whether you
are walking on the level or not. Meantime
the owner, too often, darts out upon you
suddenly from some wholly unexpected
doorway or landing, having arrived there
you know not how. Men were simply sorry

for Mrs. Lorimer ; and were extremely-glad
when any acquaintance, whom they
happened to meet, told them that they
were looking remarkably well. But mixed
and confused sensations, interesting to note
and wholly incomprehensible to the bulk
of the male populations reigned in the
female breasts in and around Claybrooke.
To begin with, there was something altogether
phenomenal about so young a widow.
Worthy mothers of growing sons and
daughters naturally regarded trouble and
loss as dignified. They had a certain
satisfaction in remembering that they had
known Elizabeth Lorimer, as a little toddling
thing who could hardly speak plain ;
had advised Mrs. Mainwaring concerning
the length of her sleeves, and the best
way of soothing her when she suffered
from various childish maladies. At the
same time, a delicate flavour of annoyance
tempered their sympathetic interest, inasmuch
as this young creature appeared to

them somewhat in the light of a prodigal,
who at her still tender age had managed
to run through the stock of experiences
that last most women their whole lives.
She seemed in some way to have got
quite an unfair start of them ; to have
assumed brevet rank; to have the advantages,
and to demand the consideration,
generally accorded to mature life, without
its accumulation of cares, its gray hairs and
faded complexion, its sense of bustle and
sense of weariness, its anxious thoughts
regarding the professions of sons and the
marriages of daughters.

Some few ladies went even further.
They had a lurking feeling that there
was a touch of not uncalled-for retributive
justice in poor Robert Lorimer's
early death. They would have been horrified
if any one had taxed them with
this feeling : most of us permit ourselves
a certain latitude in thought, which
appears subversive of all morals and

only worthy of the most abandoned
character when honestly put into words.
We are all at times remarkably tolerant
of our own unspoken meanness and
hardness of heart. But it is only fair to
admit that, there certainly are few things
more irritating to the members of a small
society  where unmarried men are scarce
and unmarried women plentiful  than the
sudden discovery that some young girl,
for whom the general consensus of public
opinion has selected one husband, should,
meanwhile, have selected quite another
husband for herself Especially is this
irritating when her choice has fallen upon
a swain, whose affections were reckoned
perfectly disengaged ; and who had been
regarded, both by watchful mothers and
maidens, as wholly to the good in their
matrimonial calculations.

Elizabeth Mainwaring had been guilty
of this serious offence against her neighbours
some eighteen months before the time of

which we now speak ; and the silent grudge,
which some persons owed her for her unexpected
marriage, had hardly yet died away.

Public opinion had unanimously concluded
that Elizabeth would marry a
certain young Mr. Edward Dadley, who,
by way of managing his aunt Miss Maria
Dadley's estate for her, spent two very
pleasant winters at Claybrooke, He was a
fresh-faced, clean-limbed, young gentleman
possessing better qualities of the heart than
of the head. He hunted three days a week,
and spent nearly all the rest of his time
at the Rectory, so that it may be questioned
whether Miss Maria Dadley's estate
profitedjVery sensibly, from the watchfulness
of his eye or controlling power of his hand.

Elizabeth Mainwaring developed very
much outwardly during those two years.
From a dark overgrown girl, silent and
shy, whose colt-like length of limb and
angularity of movement were a distinct
trial to her aunt Mrs. Mainwaring's delicate

VOL. I. C

perceptions of grace and propriety, she blossomed
into an unusually handsome young
woman. She was tall, but with an easy
carriage, and a figure so well proportioned
that her height did not strike one as unpleasing.
She had a clear brown skin, and
the curly mouse-coloured hair which so often
go with straight well-cut features and eyes
of the dark gray that, under excitement,
seem to deepen into actual violet. Such
women, I think, do not develop very early
either spiritually or mentally. The colt-stage
is a long one with them ; they are
often handsomer at thirty than at twenty.
They are almost invariably honest, loyal,
and generous, but a little dangerous. You
may live with one of them for years,
fancying that you know all about her ;
and some fine day your poor, reasonable,
slow - moving, masculine mind will be
greatly distracted and confused by finding
that she has taken an entirely new
departure ;  that some dormant emotion,

or early impression, has awakened within
her ; that she has made a discovery and
proposes to reconstruct her plan of life on
new principles. She is neither a fanatic
nor a propagandist ; she does not ask you
to change : but she does ask you to permit
her to become something, quite other than
that which she has been heretofore. A
man suffers a good deal under these
circumstances. If discoveries are about,
he would prefer that other men's wives
should make them, rather than his own.

But, notwithstanding Elizabeth's increasing
beauty, Edward Dadley disappeared
rather suddenly from the Claybrooke stage.
His aunt merely said that family business
demanded his return to his father's
place in the north. One morning his
hunters, arrayed in much clothing, went
over in charge of two tight-looking grooms
to Slowby station ; were got  with some
kicking and stamping on their part, a good
deal of coaxing and some objurgations on

the part of the grooms, and not a little
nervousness on that of the assistant porters,
into a string of horse-boxes, and steamed
away northwards. While their owner, ina
first - class carriage, meditated over an
excellent cigar that even the best of
fathers might prove a nuisance at times ;
and that though obedience was undoubtedly
a great virtue, it was too often
a singularly disagreeable one to practise.

About two months after Edward Dadley's
departure, Elizabeth Mainwaring met
Robert Lorimer for the first time. He had
come down from London to spend a few
days with an old college friend, the rector
of Melvin's Keeping  the same gentleman
whose feelings were subsequently so
much outraged by Mr. Jones's comforter
and goloshes. Robert Lorimer saw
Elizabeth several times at different houses
in the neighbourhood, and fell very much
in love with the tall, handsome, young
girl. He found a number of excellent

reasons for staying a month instead of a
few days with his old college friend. He
came back to Melvin's Keeping again in
June ; and early in September he and
Elizabeth Mainwaring were married.

Any one living within ten miles of Clay-brooke
is not likely to forget the amount of
talk which this event gave rise to. I groan
in spirit still when I recall it. But the history
of the young couple's married life, alas !
was as sad as it was short. About a year
later Robert Lorimer fell ill. Undeniable
signs of consumption showed themselves.
He was ordered abroad for the winter: the
disease, however, developed itself with terrible
rapidity, and only too soon there could
be no reasonable doubt as to the final result.
Even at the time of the wedding, a keen
observer in looking at Robert Lorimer
might have doubted whether he would
be a long-lived man. There was something
a trifle too refined and delicate
in the cutting of his face, a suspicious

openness in the nostril, and a certain
languor of manner and bearing, at times,
which many people thought a little
affected and insolent, but which really
betokened a distinct want of vitality.

Fortunately however, for the comfort
and peace of the world in general, keen
observers are rare. Most people are very
willing to take for granted that a man of
two-and-thirty, who is an excellent cricketer,
and has the reputation of having been
rather a celebrated oar at college, must
have, as a matter of course, many years
before him. It was simply from the
social point of view that the Claybrooke
world held up its hands, in a flutter of
surprise, at the marriage. Robert Lorimer
was only a young barrister, giving no
particular promise of a great career in
his profession. Mr. Mainwaring could
not be much pleased, it was said, at his
niece's choice, with his feeling about the
landed interest. Mrs. Mainwaring  in

virtue of having been a Belford of Belford
was known to have a strong appreciation
of what is generally spoken of as
family." Robert Lorimer was undeniably
a gentleman,  some people indeed
thought he was disposed to be rather too
fine a gentleman considering his position 
but he had no local standing. He had
some money : but Elizabeth would have
plenty of money of her own in time. It
was hinted that he was too fond of books
and pictures and music to be wholly satisfactory.
Literature and the arts, regarded
from any other than a purely amateur point
of view, are reckoned a little dangerous in
Midlandshire. The marriage, in short, appeared
very incomprehensible, and somewhat
of the nature of a mistake.

It was improbable that the Maintains
wished, at all keenly, to annex Robert Lorimer
: and oh ! what would not some other
people have given to possess him ! Mrs.
Harbage, for instance, during a few short

weeks, had cherished the fond illusion that
her second daughter Emily, whose youth
was passing all too quickly, had made
some impression upon the young barrister.
Poor Mrs. Harbage would naturally have
been very thankful to see one of her children
safely provided for. Mrs. Harbage had
not an easy life of it. She rose early, and
late took rest, working in her home and in
her husband's parish ; devising even on her
bed at night  when certain sounds beside
her testified to the ponderous slumbers of
her spouse  means to make a small income
cover ever-increasing expenses ; thinking
how to clothe and educate growing boys
and girls, who, because their father was
a clergyman of the Church of England,
and consequently a gentleman, must be as
well dressed and well informed, must goto
the same public schools and colleges,
must be encouraged to have the same
expensive tastes and the same gentlemanlike
indifference to the squandering of

small cash, as Sir Frederic Melvin's or
Squire Adnitt's sons and daughters. Mr.
Harbage's income was about 600, all
told, with deductions for parish expenses,
and a heavy life insurance premium. Sir
Frederic Melvin's might be set down at
nearly twice as many thousands : but all
gentlemen are equal  a blessed truth, the
mother of most bad debts and many broken
hearts ! If Robert Lorimer had married
Emily, Mrs. Harbage felt that her faith in
the goodness of Providence would have
been sensibly increased. Alas ! in the
event, she only learnt that " unto everyone
that hath shall be given"  a hard saying,
and one which had always appeared
to her in urgent need of the attention of
the revisers of the New Testament.

Such, then, were briefly the facts of
Elizabeth Lorimer's life up to the present
time, and the effect which the news of her
husband's early death had upon the mimic
world of Claybrooke and its neighbourhood.

CHAPTER II.

*'A land where all things always seem'd the same !"

Meanwhile Elizabeth Lorimer, the subject
of all this thought and conversation,
was travelling, through the clear winter
night and the bright winter day, farther
and farther from the vines and olives of
the South of France, and nearer and nearer
to our damp and misty midlands.

The life she had lived for the last two
years, with all its interests and hopes, its
pleasures and its doubts, with all its unfulfilled
promises and its restless wishes,
lay buried for ever by the tideless Southern
sea ; while the hurrying train seemed to be
bearing her swiftly forward towards another
state of existence.

As she lay huddled up among rugs and

cushions on the seat of the cotipe Elizabeth
felt too tired to think, or to sleep, or to sorrow.
She was only conscious of the muffled
roar of the rushing train as it sped northwards
; conscious that, when they reached
Paris, she must drag herself up from these
comfortable cushions, which her brother-in-law,
Frank Lorimer, had arranged for
her, and help to claim her luggage ; conscious
that there would be another space
of noisy quiet in the train, followed by a
weary struggle to get on board the boat
at Calais ;  that London would appear asa
smoky vision, and then that, at last,
she would reach the final stage of her
journey. About two hours later the
great green pastures, divided by their high
hawthorn hedges, would stretch out on
either side of the railway-track ; long
rows of elm-trees would rise against the
low gray sky ; sober-looking carts would
jolt along muddy by-roads ; anxious, yet
stolid people, laden with innumerable

baskets and parcels, would struggle in
and out of third-class carriages, dragging
alarmed, big-checked, little boys and girls
after them. Elizabeth seemed to see it
all. The journey, with all its varying
scenes stretched out before her like a
great picture ; and she almost fancied
that when the train stopped at Slowby,
and her travelling was over  some six-ands
thirty hours hence  she would find
herself a little brown-faced maid again,
whom tall Uncle Gerald would take up
tenderly in his arms and kiss ; and Aunt
Susan would gently reprove for her inability
to sit still ; and whom Mrs. Smart
would alternately coax and scold, while
she undressed her by the nursery fire in
the evening.

When we are young it is so difficult
to believe in sorrow and disaster. So
much easier to think that somehow we
shall wake up and find the dear old days
again, with kind people who will pet us

and take care of us and tell us what todo
and what to leave undone. Elizabeth
was young, and she was too tired, just
now, to realise that in future she would
have to be her own guide and conscience-keeper.
Lying there, as the train ran on
mile after mile northward, it seemed to
her that trouble, and painful experience,
and the awful mysterious shadow of death,
were being left far behind on the shores of
the unquiet Mediterranean, and that at
Claybrooke she would find the sweet
monotony of spelling-books and pinafores
once more.

But one thing disturbed this peaceful
dream  the presence of her brother-in-law,
Frank Lorimer. He sat in the
corner of the coiipe enveloped in a heavy
ulster, while the light of the lamp fell with
irritating clearness on the top of his
travelling-cap, the end of his nose, and
the point of his light-brown beard. No
amount of dreaming would dream away

that solid English figure ; and he sat
there as the sign and seal of the truth of
all those painful and mysterious facts
which poor Elizabeth would so willingly
have disbelieved in.

Frank Lorimer, sitting in the corner of
the railway carriage, pondered quietly over
many things. Life had dealt pleasantly
enough with him so far. At one-and-thirty
he found himself strong, able, and
ready for much enjoyment in many
different ways. He had an enormous
capacity for friendship  or comradeship,
as he preferred to have it called. But he
was too healthy, both in mind and body,
to be fully satisfied with so spiritual a
form of relationship, as the existence of
Mrs. Frank Lorimer and two slim curly-headed
babies clearly proved. Underneath
certain theories and affectations,
his nature rested upon a firm basis of
commonsense, which inspired one with
considerable faith in his judgment, and

comfort in his presence. His elder
brother's death was the first real break
in his life, the first real trouble that he
had experienced : but his naturally sensible
mind accepted death as one of the
necessary conditions of existence ; and his
sorrow, therefore, was wholly unmixed with
those bitter feelings of injury and  must
I add  of anger, which alone make grief
intolerable. Such bereavements were
common to the lot of all men, therefore
his individual lot was merely subject to
the general law. He took comfort in the
thought, and was genuinely glad to find
that he could take comfort in it. He was
a kind and sensible rather than a heroic
soul. He quite appreciated heroes : but,
for his own part, he preferred the common
walks of life and its average emotions, to
mountain-tops in cloud and storm, and
passions " torn to tatters."

Frank Lorimer did not meditate very
deeply on his own feelings under existing

circumstances. He was thinking  if the
truth must be told  over the leading points
of an article on the present relations of
France and Italy, for the weekly paper of
which he was sub-editor ; of the pleasure
of getting back to his own home and to
those engaging babies ; and of the probable
future of his handsome young sister-in-law,
in whom he thought he detected a
tendency towards the tempests of feeling
and strange exaggerations of conduct which
were so foreign to his own well-balanced
temperament.

Claybrooke was reached at last. It was
dusk, and the west wind rushed through"
the bare branches of the high-standing
elm-trees, in the village street. Some
round-eyed children clustered on the footpath
; and Shepherd Judge,  clothed in a
stout linen slop and corduroy trousers,
which were stained, with much handling of
sheep and working in heavy clay fellows,
to the dirty yellow of his native soil, 

loitered a moment to watch the carnage
turn in at the Rectory gates. Then, fearing
that he had displayed more interest in
passing events than was wholly dignified
in a man who had the care of some
hundred and fifty-five ewes on his hands,
this being lambing season  he turned
sharply on the staring children, and reproved
them for " standing there dawdling
in the road and mocking their pinafores,
when they'd be a deal better abed ; "
and, after whistling to his two lean, half-bred,
collie-dogs, walked off, with a very
self-righteous back, to spend a chilly night
in ministering to the needs of his flock.

Elizabeth, dazed and weary, stepped
out of the carriage, and was aware of the
comfortable ruddy light of a glowing fire
in the well-remembered panelled hall.
Aware of a glimmer of white cap-lappets
and of the delicate rose-scent of Mrs.
Mainwaring's garments, as that gentlewoman,
with murmuring of welcome and

VOL. I. D

pity, folded her in her arms. Aware that
Mr. Mainwaring stooped and kissed her,
saying, " How d'ye do, my dear Lizzie, I'm

glad " and then that somehow his

voice broke, and he added a husky " God
bless you," and turned away. Aware of the
presence of Bunton, the old butler, who
took her wraps with a shaky hand, gazing
at her meanwhile with an appropriate and
funereal expression of countenance.

She was aware, too,  for she was in
that excited and highly nervous condition,
of mind and body, in which one becomes
vividly sensible of everything that happens
around one, though it may convey no
connected meaning to the mind,  that
Mr. Mainwaring had regained all his
wonted clearness of utterance and stateliness
of manner, when he turned to Frank
Lorimer and thanked him courteously for
having brought Elizabeth safely home ; 
and that Frank replied with the easy,
good-humoured indifference of a man who

is conscious that he is being complimented
for having performed a wholly unavoidable
duty.

"You will come upstairs at once, dear
child ; you must be terribly tired, " said
Mrs. Mainwaring, drawing Elizabeth away.

Mrs. Mainwaring cultivated the old-fashioned
notion that people should sit a
great deal in their bedrooms when they
were in sorrow. Her own greatest trouble
in life, perhaps, was that she had never
had what most people would reckon to be
any real trouble at all. She had never had
one of those comfortable and ostensible
troubles, which give you the right of
remaining upstairs and pulling the blinds
down. She had a feeling that sit was
almost indecent for Elizabeth to have
travelled all that long way back to
England, so early in her widowhood. At
least now she should have her full privilege
of silence and seclusion, and that
privilege should begin at once.

"I'm afraid I must say good-bye to
you, Elizabeth, then," said Frank Lorimer,
coming forward. " I must go up to town
by the first train tomorrow, if Mr. Main-waring
will kindly let me,  and I daresay
you won't be down."

Elizabeth turned to him quickly. She
suddenly perceived that in parting with
Frank she was severing one of the last
visible links that bound her to her
husband, and to the larger and freer life
that her marriage had brought her.
Already she was sensible of the gently repressive
influence that her aunt had always
exercised over her. She knew intuitively
that the Claybrooke atmosphere was
exactly the same as ever  monotonous,
unimaginative, well - regulated, insular.
She knew, also, that she herself was
greatly changed ; and she trembled in
realising that she must bid farewell to
the liberty of thought and action that she
had enjoyed during the last two years.

Those few words of Mrs. Mainwaring's
had quite roused her from the state of
exhausted acquiescence in which she had
arrived. She felt that she was being
appropriated, that a part was being given
her to play ; and she rebelled already,
and turned with longing and regret to
her brother-in-law.

Can't you stay till the afternoon ? "
she said. " I don't want you to go,
Frank ; you have been very good tome.


She laid her hand upon his arm. .The
light of the lamp hanging above them fell
full on her face, which looked unusually
pale framed by her black bonnet. Her
mouth was tremulous with fatigue and a
disposition to tears.

Frank Lorimer, standing there, strong,
comfortable and successful, felt a great
compassion for this woman, with her black
garments and sweet tired eyes. It was
difficult for him, however, to express his

sentiments. It would have taken time to
put them into appropriate words. He
wanted his dinner ; and was conscious,
too, that the Mainwarings might slightly
resent  and not without reason  his
taking upon himself the office of Elizabeth's
consoler just at the first moment
of her coming home. So he stooped towards
her, and kissed the pale upturned
face, saying 

"You had much better go and rest
quietly now. I am afraid I must leave
early tomorrow: but, you see it will
always be easy for me to run down here
for a night, if you want me."

I suppose it is never wholly pleasant
to a man getting on in years to see a
younger man than himself kiss  however
innocently  a pretty woman. It suggests
contrasts, not always favourable to age.
Any way this little episode jarred somewhat
upon the Rector ; and he ordered
Bunton, rather sharply, to show Mr.

Lorimer his room, as dinner would be
very shortly ready.

While poor Elizabeth rests from the
fatigues of her journey, in the decent
seclusion that her aunt held so dear, it
may be well to give some more detailed
account of Mr. Mainwaring's surroundings,
and of his views concerning the world in
which he lived.

Claybrooke Rectory is one of those
delightful old houses that are so common
in the south of Midlandshire. It is built
of sandstone, the soft dull browns, and
greens, and yellows of which remind one
of the rich subdued colours of the falling
elm-leaves in autumn. It has many
gables, and steep-pitched roofs with ridge-tiles
of well-quarried stone surmounting
the old red tiling ; and many-casement
windows with heavy stone mullions. Inside
are deep window-seats ;  lovely places
in which to sit, when the low western sun
throws long shadows from the great

round-topped elm-trees across the wide
stretching pastures, where sturdy black
Welsh cattle and herds of " red hereford"
with stupid white faces move
slowly through the rich damp grass.
The house is full of low rooms, opening
one out of the other ; long passages with
quaint little staircases up and down ;
unexpected nooks and corners ; cupboards
innumerable ; and a system of
attics incomprehensible to all but the very
oldest inhabitant. It is a dark house,
perhaps. Low ceilings and black oak
floors and stairways have a habit, like
many eminently respectable people and
things, of being a trifle gloomy : but at
the time of which we speak everything 
carpets, curtains and furniture  had all
grown old and faded together. Everything
looked harmonious, if not gay.
Everything looked calm, serious, and
middle-aged. If you found it sad and
did not like it, well, you could go elsewhere.

Claybrooke Rectory was far too
secure of its social position to care very
much about pleasing chance visitors.

Here Gerald Mainwaring had brought
his bride  pretty Susan Belford  nearly
forty years ago. Here they had lived ever
since in comfort and prosperity.

But one thing had been denied them.
There had been no sound of children's
footsteps racing up and down the long
passages, or playing on wet half-holidays
in the great mysterious attics. No handsome
boy had come home to his mother
from his first day's hunting, flushed with
pride and full of stories of his own remarkable
prowess and marvellous adventures.
Only the little brown-faced niece,
who had come there almost as a baby,
grew up in the quiet, stately, old house.

Mr. Mainwaring loved the child tenderly ;
she was the daughter of his only brother.
Mrs. Mainwaring did her duty by Elizabeth
: but there was always the want of

the tie of common blood between them.
They could never entirely understand or
sympathise with each other.

The living of Claybrooke, with its
various cottages and farms, has belonged
to the Mainwaring family for a length of
time which the hardiest local imagination
scarcely ventures to measure. For a
good many generations now the eldest
son of each successive rector has, as a
matter of course, chosen the Church for
his profession, and reigned in due time as
squire and clergyman of Claybrooke.

To some minds, in these critical and
enlightened days, a fact such as this
presents food not only for thought but
for lamentation. Mr. Leeper, the Vicar of
Lowcote, for instance, waxed very wroth
in the face of such an appalling example
of indifference to the higher conceptions
of the clerical calling. If Claybrooke had
been sunk in ignorance, and a byword
for drunkenness and open sin, Mr. Leeper

would not have been surprised, nay, he
would merely have traced the natural and
proper order of cause and effect. It was
irritating to him to remark that the people
were at least as orderly and respectable
as their neighbours ; that the cottages
were in excellent condition ; and to learn,
as he did with a sense of bewildered distress,
that the church was generally well
filled, both at the morning and afternoon
services. Mr. Leeper's views, in themselves,
were admirable : but, unfortunately
he had never studied the law of " captivity,"
and consequently often suffered
from that sense of confusion and annoyance
which overtakes us when we find the
facts of life telling dead against some one
of our most cherished theories. Had you
taken the votes of the inhabitants of
Claybrooke and Lowcote regarding the
popularity of their respective clergymen,
I am afraid you would have found  so
blind is ordinary human nature to the

true aspects of great Church questions, 
that unimpassioned, old-fashioned, fox-hunting
Mr. Mainwaring would have
gained an immense majority over energetic
Mr. Leeper,  notwithstanding the
latter's excellent views on the temperance
question, the iniquity of outdoor relief,
and the urgent necessity for diocesan conferences.
Mr. Leeper was furnished with
a complete system for the entire reformation
of his parish ; but, alas ! it did not
seem to recognise the advantages of his
system, and refused to be reformed. Mr.
Mainwaring, on the other hand, had no
particular views. He based all his parochial
work on plain common sense, supplemented
with port wine and puddings.
He did not interfere very much with his
parishioners ; supposing, as he said, that
a man earning thirteen shillings a week
had the same capacity for doing right, 
but possessed the same privilege of doing
wrong if he chose,  which he claimed for

himself. His was not a very high ideal,
possibly, of the priestly office : but it had
one distinct advantage over that of some
of his neighbours  namely the important
one, of being easily and successfully reduced
to practice.

CHAPTER III.

"I write of melancholy, by being busie to avoid
melancholy."

It would be very pleasant to paint Elizabeth
Lorimer's portrait, at this stage of
her career, in all the soft pathetic shades
of colour which are generally supposed to
be appropriate to a first and a deep grief.
It would be pleasant to draw down our
mental blinds  as Mrs. Mainwaring proposed
to draw down her material ones 
and contemplate the figure of the young
widow in a gracefully subdued . light.
Unfortunately the graceful point of view
is so seldom the truest one. In the world
within us, just as in the world without,
there are deserts and sandy wastes, nasty
bogs, foul lazy waters ringed round with

rank weeds and coarse rushes, which no
amount of amiable optimism concerning
the ultimate perfectibility of human nature
can altogether hide from our eyes.

Elizabeth was but half awake as yet.
She had not grasped the deeper meanings
of life. In the blush of her youthful
beauty and perfect physical health, she
desired passionately, and before all things,
to be happy.

Her intimacy with Edward Dadley had
developed within her a longing for homage
and admiration. She had for the
first time realised her power as a woman.
When he left her so suddenly, she not
only regretted him, but she was hungry
for more of the pleasant sensations and
strange excitements which his admiration
of her had produced. She was sore,
proud, angry  just in the state of mind
to seize on any change or on any new
excitement which might present itself.
Consequently she was pleased and flattered

by Robert Lorimer's attentions. He lived
in a different world to that which she had
been accustomed to. She longed after all
that was beautiful, and artistic, and poetic,
in life ; and it seemed to her that this man
was in a position to give her what she
longed for. He fascinated her intelligence,
and the possibilities of life with him
seemed very great and pleasant to her.
Many of the noblest qualities of her
nature found a ready response and sympathy
in him. It needs a long and hard
experience, sometimes, to enable one to distinguish
accurately between those emotions
which come from the heart and those
which come from the head. Poor Elizabeth
did not realise  like too many noble
and pure-minded young girls  that the
heart is an all-important factor in marriage.
Perhaps if Robert Lorimer had lived,
she would have given him in time all
the strong and devoted affection which was
latent within her. As it was, before she

became accustomed to her new life and
settled down with open eyes to live it, her
husband's illness came. Elizabeth had
never been brought nearly in contact with
suffering and death before, and they were
appalling, almost repulsive, to her. They
seemed strange, unnatural, hideous. In
shrinking from the sight of suffering, she
shrank a little from the sufferer too. She
had moments of passionate tenderness
towards her husband, moments of wild
despair, when she realised that he must
really leave her : but generally she was
merely conscious of a confused sense of
fear and dumb rebellion against her lot.

For a while after her arrival at Clay-brooke
Rectory Elizabeth was too tired,
both in mind and body, to have much will
of her own. The momentary flash of feeling,
which she had experienced when she
parted with her brother-in-law, died down
again quietly. Her chief desire was for rest ;
and she submitted to her aunt Mrs. Main-vol.

I. E

waring's small views, and arrangements for
her good, with considerable docility.

Claybrooke was very soothing to her.
It was associated chiefly with her quiet
girlhood ; there was little enough to remind
her of the troubles and disappointments
of the last two years. Now and
again some chance word or trivial incident
would arouse all the storm of feeling that
was sleeping within her, and she would
ask fiercely why all these things had
happened to her ? Why life, which ought
to be so sweet, and which she was so
capable of enjoying, was so early marred
and spoiled for her ? She had but raised
the cup to her lips, when fate had dashed
it from her hand, and now it lay shattered
and broken at her feet, while all her
promised joy was spilt upon the ground.
At times she felt almost angry with her
dead husband, as though he had wantonly
left her to battle her way through this
difficult world alone.

Sometimes, on the other hand, she
would suffer a paroxysm of regret and
sorrow. In the night, when there was no
sound to break the stillness but that of
the wind moaning about the gables of the
old house, or the distant bark of a watchdog
at some lone farm-house down in the
quiet meadows, Elizabeth would start from
her sleep, oppressed by a sudden sense of
loneliness and terror. She would seem to
see, once more, the lofty room, shaded with
closed shutters from the glare of the fierce
Southern sunlight ; the sister of charity in
her dark dress, her smooth peaceful face
framed by her great white cap, moving
softly about ; and the sick man, who,
through long, weary, sunny days and
restless nights, had lain, with a fine and
steadfast courage, facing the awful angel of
death and schooling himself to bid farewell
 not without bitter pain and sorrow
but without a murmur of repining  to
this kindly and familiar world, and to the

 MOR

 llUNO

beautiful young wife whom he loved so
well.

Remembering these things, Elizabeth
would stretch out longing arms into the
stillness and darkness ; and then remembering,
too, that here that deep debt of
love could never be repaid, would fling
herself down upon the pillows again, and
sob in lonely misery, till the windows of
her room began to glimmer faintly through
the chintz curtains, while the still gray
dawn broke over the damp and misty
pastures, and the birds began to twitter
about the eaves, and comfortable, reassuring,
domestic sounds told that the old
Rectory-house was awake once more and
getting ready for the work of another
quiet uneventful day.

But Elizabeth was perhaps a little
unfortunately unconventional. She could
not play at feeling, because it was the
pretty thing under the circumstances.
When these storms of emotion came down

Upon her, she struggled out of them as
quickly as she could. She still wanted
supremely to be happy ; and though she
felt bruised and wounded, her life was yet
whole in her. She would pause awhile
and take breath ; and then try conclusions
with the world again.

As the days lengthened, the rooks
became noisy over domestic matters in
the big elm-trees by the church ; the starlings,
breaking up the flocks in which they
had danced and circled together during the
winter months, began to haunt water-spouts
and hollow trees ; the earth smelt fresh
and sweet under the soft westerly wind ;
and spring flowers began to cheer the bare
bosoms of the garden beds. It was
pleasant then to Elizabeth to wander outwith
the Rector over his plough-lands
and pastures, while Billy and Boxer, the
two fox-terriers, rushed wildly about, discovering
imaginary rats and rabbits in
every hedge, and Rufus, the brown retriever.

full of years and dignity, trotted slowly at
his master's heels.

Mr. Mainwaring had a feeling of
delicacy in talking to his niece of her own
troubles.  Politics Mr. Mainwaring had
never reckoned as very well suited to
the comprehension of the female mind ;
and Church matters, with Ritualists splitting
up the poor old Establishment
inside, and Rationalists battering it from
without, seemed to him more of a subject
for bitter indignation and invective
than for ordinary conversation. It
happened, therefore, that the Rector's talk
was generally of an unexciting character,
dealing chiefly with the land and the crops,
interspersed with kindly bits of gossip
about neighbours and parishioners, and
with reminiscences of historic runs with
the hounds, the memorable taking of
brooks, or scrambling through impenetrable
bullfinches." Elizabeth listened gladly
to this simple talk. It demanded no

mental exertion on her part, and yet it
kept her from more intimate, and from
sadder thoughts and speculations. The
Rector was satisfied with her quiet attention.
It was pleasant to him to say
familiar things which he had often said
before. He believed that Elizabeth was
quite sufficiently amused, and meanwhile
he was glad to do a proper amount of
talking, without touching on subjects of a
serious or controversial character. Mr.
Mainwaring had given up most of the
problems of life as insoluble ; and he was
inclined to be a little vexed when anything
was said which seemed to suggest
that they might not be so, and that it was
the duty of reasonable human beings to
struggle to find a solution of them.

It often strikes one as unfortunate that
women are not more capable of letting
each other alone. Mrs. Mainwaring was
quite incapable of dealing with Elizabeth
in the same simple tolerant fashion as the

Rector. She was not willing to take her
niece for granted. She wanted agreement
of sentiment and assurances of feeling,
which it was not in the nature of the
younger woman to give.

Mrs. Mainwaring had, as a girl, unquestioningly
accepted certain social traditions
and formulas. She had  owing
partly no doubt to her comfortable circumstances
and secure position  clung
to them tenaciously through the course
of her life ; and now they ruled her
completely. If you deprived her of them
she would have felt like a lost child,
uncertain what to do and where to turn.
The foundations being shaken, the righteous
as represented by Mrs. Mainwaring 
would have been in most doleful case.
She was gentle, tender-hearted, and calmly
devout : but her imagination was small,
and her sympathies were narrow. She
was lovable : but it was impossible to
deny that she was rather limited. Elizabeth

alarmed, distressed, and surprised her at
times. Elizabeth's faults and temptations
were incomprehensible to her. She was
always sensible that Elizabeth did not
repeat her experiences, or fulfil her ideal
under given circumstances. There had
always been a want of common ground on
which she and her niece could meet safely ;
and the little space which had formerly
existed seemed to have dwindled considerably
in extent since Elizabeth's marriage.
When the first strangeness and pathos
of her return began to wear off Mrs.
Mainwaring grew a little dissatisfied.
She was unconsciously on the watch
for her niece's failings and shortcomings.
Unfortunately Elizabeth was not a great
diplomatist, and had a tendency towards
a certain directness of thought and speech,
which often caused her to pluck, rather
rudely, at the conventional wrappings with
which her aunt decently covered her own
convictions and desires.

One afternoon, about six weeks after
Elizabeth had come back to Claybrooke,
she and Mrs. Mainwaring were together
in the pretty little panelled sitting-room
upstairs, in which the latter lady generally
spent her mornings. There Mrs. Main-waring
made up tidy accounts, and ordered
her household and her husband's parish
with dignified kindness and unruffled
composure.

Elizabeth was sitting in one of the deep
window seats, her hands resting idly in
her lap. Out of doors everything seemed
to be feeling the pleasant influences of
the spring, and awakening in hope and
freshness to a new lease of life. The elms
looked soft and bloomy with swelling
buds ; the pastures were green with the
springing grass ; the sober midland landscape
lay sleeping in the pleasant sunshine.
Away among the trees in the distance, on
the other side of the brook, Elizabeth
could see the quaint, old, red-brick chimneys

of the Manor-house.  Her mind
was full of gentle regret, and yet of hope.
At one-and-twenty one can easily, infancy
at least, call a new world into existence
to restore the balance of the old.

Mrs. Mainwaring, with her pretty faded
face, sitting knitting by the fire so serenely,
Mrs. Mainwaring, who had never known
a tangible trouble in all her life,  was
perhaps really more deserving of pity and
sympathy than this beautiful young woman,
with her obvious sorrows and her heavy
widow's gown.

Smart told me the other day. Aunt
Susan," said Elizabeth, still looking out
over the sunny country, "that Miss Dadley
died last year. I hadn't heard it. What
has been done with the Manor-house ?"

It is an unpleasant subject," answered
Mrs. Mainwaring slowly. " Mr. Dadley
behaved very strangely, considering the
length of time the place had been in the
family. He sold everything."

I wonder why," said Elizabeth.

Oh ! nobody knows," replied Mrs.
Mainwaring. " Sir Frederic Melvin bought
all the land, with the exception of
one or two fields adjoining Garner's
farm which your uncle took. But everything
was sold. The very chairs and
tables we had known for the last thirty
years  everything went. There was a
want of consideration and proper feeling
about it," added Mrs. Mainwaring
severely. " Your uncle was very much
annoyed."

Elizabeth turned and gazed out of
window again.

Have you heard anything of Edward
Dadley, lately, Aunt Susan ?" she said.

Mrs. Mainwaring glanced up quickly
from her knitting : but she could only see
Elizabeth's profile as a silhouette against
a background of window-panes, and in
that position it was impossible to gain
any idea of her expression.

No ! nothing at all," she answered
quietly.

"Ah !" responded Elizabeth.

It would have been difficult to her to say,
at that moment, whether she felt relieved
or a little disappointed. She sat quite still
for a minute or two without turning her
head ; then, getting up, she walked across
to where her aunt sat knitting by the fire,
and knelt down before her on the rug.

Dear Aunt Susie," she said, " I want
you to be very kind, and do me a great
favour."

Mrs. Mainwaring only smiled ; she had
a vague forecasting that Elizabeth was
going to ask her to do something which
she would not the least like to do. She
also wished that Elizabeth would sit down
on a chair like an ordinary person, when
she asked favours. Mrs. Mainwaring
objected to seeing people kneel, except
in church, or at prayers. The position
seemed to her a little exaggerated.

Will you ask Frank Lorimer and his
wife to come down here for a week at
Easter?" Elizabeth went on,  "They
could get away from London then, I
think, and I should be so glad to see
them."

Mrs. Mainwaring's smile died away.
She did not in the least wish to accede to
her niece's request : but it was decidedly
awkward to refuse it point-blank.

I know you don't care to have
strangers staying in the house," continued
Elizabeth : " but I am very fond of them
I mean of the Lorimerss ;  and Frank
was wonderfully good to me, you know,
during that sad time abroad."

Mrs. Mainwaring waited a moment, while
she fingered her knitting-pins a little nervously.


I don't know, Elizabeth, what to say,"
she answered at last : " but I am afraid
your uncle would not quite like it."

Mrs. Mainwaring found it tiresomely

difficult to say what she wanted to say,
with Elizabeth kneeling there and looking
up at her so sweetly.

"Dear me, why not?" exclaimed Elizabeth.


"Your uncle and Mr. Lorimer did not
get on very well together the night you
came home. They differed about politics,
I believe," answered Mrs. Mainwaring
evasively.

Dear me," said Elizabeth again.

She got up off the rug and stood opposite
to her aunt. She felt hurt and
annoyed at Mrs. Mainwaring's manner.

It must have been a very serious
difference of opinion," she added, " if it
should be sufficient to make Uncle Gerald
really object to Frank's coming here."

In point of fact," said Mrs. Main-waring,
looking down at her knitting, but
feeling far more comfortable and self-possessed
now that her niece was no
longer kneeling so close to her,  " In

point of fact, Elizabeth, Mr. Lorimer is
not quite the sort of person we have
been accustomed to have here."

Possibly not," said Elizabeth, wilfully
mistaking her meaning. " This neighbourhood
is not very brilliant. Clever
men are not very common about here."

I was not speaking merely of this
neighbourhood, Elizabeth," said Mrs. Main-waring,
looking up with some dignity.

She would not condescend to define more
particularly the society in which she had
always moved : but the memory of many
generations of Selfords crowded into her
mind. Everybody knew who the Selfords
were, and knew  or ought to know  the
sort of society they had always lived in.

Elizabeth's face flushed painfully. Her
pride was touched, and her loyalty towards
her husband demanded that she should
speak. She waited a moment, for she
found it a little difficult to control her
utterance.

You forget, Aunt Susan, that Frank
Lorimer is my husband's brother," she
said at last.

Mrs. Mainwaring winced. It was almost
coarse, she thought, to put the matter in that
light : but there was a large fund of obstinacy
in this fragile, gentle-looking, little lady's
nature. She had not the smallest disposition
to haul down her colours because Elizabeth
had not the delicacy to perceive how
much out of place her last observation was.

Mr. Lorimer was a barrister," said Mrs.
Mainwaring.

And Frank is a newspaper editor," rejoined
Elizabeth, speaking as quietly as she
could. " But the two men were brothers.
Aunt Susan; and you can hardly mean to
imply that my husband's claims "  she
paused a moment  " to be admitted into
the society you have been accustomed to
depended upon his profession."

Mrs. Mainwaring stood up too ; she
was extremely pained and distressed.

VOL. I. F

This conversation has taken a most
unfortunate turn," she said. " I think you
must perceive yourself how unbecoming it
is, Elizabeth, under present circumstances.
I really cannot discuss the question further.
I must entreat you to let it drop."

And she slowly and severely rolled up
her long strip of knitting.

Elizabeth had generally repented after
one of these final rebukes of her aunt's.
She had generally been convicted of sin
more from habit, perhaps, than from
anything else  and had humbled herself:
but this time something deeper than her
own personal pride was touched. All her
better nature was roused in defence of her
husband's memory. Mrs. Mainwaring, by
implication at least, had slighted him ;
and Elizabeth bitterly and fiercely resented
the slight. She did not answer, but
remained standing near the fire, with her
eyes fixed upon the floor.

Mrs. Mainwaring finished rolling up her

work in silence and moved away. Just as
she reached the door she turned and said
in her usual quiet even tones, 

I am going to drive over to Slowby
this afternoon, Elizabeth. I have ordered
the closed carriage, so that there would be
no objection to your coming, if you cared
to do so."

No, thank you," answered Elizabeth
shortly. " I prefer remaining at home."

She was determined to make no step,
this time, towards a reconciliation with
her Aunt Susan. She went hastily to her
own room, and, throwing on a hat and
jacket, went out quickly by a side door
into the garden, being careful to avoid a
meeting with Mrs. Mainwaring, for whom
the carriage was waiting in front of the
house.

There is a broad walk leading out of
the Rectory garden, at Claybrooke, towards
the church. It is divided from the main
road, which runs parallel to it, by a belt of

trees and underwood ; on the other side is
a sunk fence, beyond which stretch the
pastures, sloping down towards the brook
that strayed through the valley, about half
a mile away. In the winter this walk is
sheltered from the bitter east winds by the
belt of wood, and in summer pleasantly
shaded by the overhanging trees ; while to
the westward, across the sunk fence, the
view  such as it is  is wholly uninterrupted.


Elizabeth had dreamed many pretty
dreams, during her quiet uneventful girlhood,
pacing up and down this walk, while
her eyes wandered over the still green
country, and her thoughts wandered far
into the coming years, coloured by bright
hopes and charming fancies. Her steps
turned instinctively towards it now, though
her hopes were no longer very bright, and
though realities had arisen, like Pharaoh's
'' lean kine," and devoured all her fair
fancies one by one.

She was hurt and angry ; full of tenderness
towards her dead husband and
towards his family. She knew that Mrs.
Mainwaring had not spoken without
thought and intention. The narrow
groove along which life at Claybrooke
moved already began to worry Elizabeth.
She had already observed that many
opinions which she expressed were unpalatable
to her aunt ; that the latter feared
she was breaking free, in a somewhat dangerous
manner, from received doctrines ;
that she was too anxious to think for
herself. She knew that Mrs. Mainwaring
resented all eccentricity, all unusualness.
Elizabeth suspected that her aunt accused
the Frank Lorimerss of encouraging her to
take her own way, and that their influence
was considered undesirable.

She stood still in the middle of the walk.
The rooks were flying, in a long black line,
home to their half-made nests in the elms
by the church ; the children shouted at

their play in the village street ; and the
thin spring sunshine lay softly on the face
of the green meadows. Away across the
brook Elizabeth could still see the twisted
chimneys of the old Manor-house above
the trees.

For a moment the thought came to
her of how different all her life would have
been if she had married her first love 
the good-tempered fresh-faced young
squire,  and had settled down to the quiet
life of the country, with its simple round
of duties and pleasures. The quiet country
life would have been pleasant enough
to her two years ago : but now she had
had experience of another and more exciting
sort of living. Elizabeth was very
young still. Though she had suffered,
though she had been cruelly disappointed,
she had not yet said her " vanity vanity
She longed after all that is included
in that magic word, culture,  after books,
and music, and art ; after fanciful furnishings

and beautiful colours. She believed
that the philosopher's stone was still to be
found ; and she longed, poor child, to set
out in quest of it. She owed her aunt
and uncle a debt for their love and care
of her : but her loyalty to her husband
ranged itself alongside her desire for
beauty and knowledge, against her simple
duty to those who had stood to her in the
place of parents.

She could see that remaining at Clay-brooke
implied complete submission to
Mrs. Mainwaring's small moral and social
code. When the time of her mourning
should be over, there was no more exhilarating
prospect before her than dreary
dinners with local magnates ; solemn
afternoon calls with Mrs. Mainwaring ;
visits to the schools and to certain cottages
; occasionally the holding of a stall
at some bazaar for the restoration of a
neighbouring church ; now and again a
wearisome garden party. Of conversation.

none worth the name  no change, no new
interests, nothing but the eminently "trivial
round" and the remarkably "common task."
Meanwhile Elizabeth seemed to see herself
growing older, and grayer, and duller, as
one quiet year slipped away after another.
Now she rebelled against the stagnation
of Claybrooke ; five or ten years hence
she would be accustomed to it  nay, at
last she might even come to like it.

She was capable of exciting herself very
greatly with her own speculations. The
picture she had called up of her future in
the still, sleepy, midland village was intolerable
to her. She desired desperately to
get away and cast in her lot with the
Frank Lorimerss. She saw clearly that
no middle course would be possible for
long  she would have, sooner or later, to
make her choice between her own and her
husband's relations.

As she stood, full of uncertainty and
of conflicting feelings, in the spring sunshine,

the Rector  riding home over the
fields from visiting some outlying cottages
stopped his comfortable fat cob on the
other side of the sunk fence, and looked
at her,

Ah ! Lizzie," he said, smiling a little
sadly, " It is very pleasant to see you
moving about this old place again. I am
growing an old man, my dear, and I like
a beautiful young face to look at."

CHAPTER IV.

** Sir," he said, " I take stock in everything that
concerns anybody."

Mrs. Mainwaring, meanwhile, rumbling
along in the closed carriage towards
Slowby, was as unhappy as a person
supported by a strong sense of accomplished
duty can well be. The
coachman's livery fitted excellently  it
was quite pleasant to behold his back ; 
the horses trotted cheerily along the broad
highroad ; the country looked pretty in
the afternoon sunshine ; the shopkeepers
in Slowby, moreover, would hurry with
unfeigned satisfaction to their doors,
anxious to supply any quantity of any
article that Mrs. Mainwaring might desire,
when they saw her carriage stopping in

High Street. All these things were wont
to yield her a gentle sense of gratification,
for, notwithstanding her traditions, Mrs.
Mainwaring was fundamentally a very
simple-minded person. She enjoyed her
own respectable and dignified position, and
still more she enjoyed the recognition of
her respectability and dignity by others.
It is distinctly agreeable to be persuaded
that the world in general shares in our
own good opinion of ourselves. To-day
the worthy lady ought, surely, to have
felt even more than usually serene and
satisfied, for she had got her own way.
She knew that, after their late conversation,
Elizabeth's pride would prevent her
making any more inconvenient suggestions
respecting a visit from the Frank Lorimerss.
Mrs. Mainwaring had fought and won the
little battle very successfully. She had her
desire : but, alas ! together with her desire,
she had leanness withal in her soul.

She believed, and rightly, that she loved

Elizabeth more truly than she loved any
other human being except her husband,
Gerald Mainwaring : but Mrs. Mainwaring
was not a very acute thinker, and had
never perceived that she loved, not Elizabeth
as she really was, but Elizabeth as she
might be,  if that strong-natured young
woman renounced her individuality and
submitted herself entirely to her aunt's
guidance. She loved, in fact, a phantom
Elizabeth of her own creating, and was
perpetually distressed and annoyed with
the real Elizabeth, who bore but a slight
resemblance to her ideal. Mrs. Main-waring
just now was feeling acutely pained
at having had such a disturbing scene with
her niece ; and was confused and bewildered
by the way in which Elizabeth
had spoken, and by the view which she
had taken of the matter. She could not
comprehend how any right-minded person
could see things from a different standpoint
to her own.

Mrs. Mainwaring had never been entirely
satisfied with Elizabeth's marriage.
She suspected a want of great-grandfathers
in the Lorimer family. She did
not go as far as her maid Smart, who,
being blessed with aristocratic ideas, had
suggested on hearing of Robert Lorimer's
death, " that she hoped now Miss Elizabeth
would take her maiden name again."
She did not certainly go as far as that :
but she had cherished a silent hope that
the connection would be quietly dropped,
and that Elizabeth would come to regard
her marriage merely as a slightly unfortunate
episode, and adopt the Main-waring
and Belford view of things in
general.

Mrs. Mainwaring could not ignore the
fact that Frank Lorimer edited a newspaper.
No one whom she knew had ever
married a newspaper editor, or had taken
to that sort of employment as a profession.
Some people can accept no fact without a

precedent. Then, too, from hints that
Elizabeth had dropped, Mrs. Mainwaring
feared that the Frank Lorimerss knew all
sorts of queer people  writers, artists,
musicians, actors. People who live by
their brains and their talents instead of on
their means, are always a little doubtful.
Mrs. Mainwaring associated such persons
with lodgings and tinned meat, and with
an absence of horses and carriages, and
servants with long and admirable personal
characters.

This good lady's ideas of art did not
carry her beyond portraits painted by
Gainsborough and Sir Joshua; and it is
to be feared that even they were interesting
to her more as testifying to the high
respectability of the families whose deceased
members they so flatteringly represented,
than as examples of the great
masters' work. In the matter of music,
she was vexed if the village choir sang
flagrantly out of time or tune on Sunday

in church ; and she liked to hear a ballad
given in the mild and wholly unimaginative
way in which young ladies and gentlemen
do perform ballads, when possessed
by a praiseworthy desire to relieve the
tedium of the long evening which usually
follows a seven o'clock country dinner-party
; any touch of true passion or even
of true pathos would have alarmed and
confused her with a suggestion of slight
impropriety. From the religious point of
view Mrs. Mainwaring had no objection to
the stage : but she recoiled from the idea
of publicity, and could not conceive how a
really pure woman, or high-minded man,
could be willing to earn their bread by
representing fictitious characters and ill-regulated
emotions before a large number
of spectators. In all ages, I suppose,
there have been a good many minds to
which the notion of a paid amuser of the
public has appeared contemptible and
degrading. As for Mrs. Mainwaring, she

failed to perceive any very distinct social
difference between one of the great leaders
of the dramatic profession and the strolling
acrobat, with his stock-in-trade of a little
carpet and pair of spangled tights, who
will go through a series of painful contortions
on the dusty pavement, in the hope
of gleaning a meagre harvest of peradventure
pennies from the passers - by.
These being her views, it certainly was
not very surprising that Mrs. Mainwaring
should reckon it almost her duty to do
her best to wean Elizabeth from relations,
whose standpoint was so radically different
to her own. Yet that afternoon, as she
drove over to Slowby, Mrs. Mainwaring was
oppressed with a lurking fear that Elizabeth
might be alienated from her in the
process. Life is very difficult sometimes,
and human beings very hard to manage,
even when we are entirely sure that our
intentions are excellent and the end we
propose to attain eminently desirable.

But it was not merely upon her near
relations that poor Elizabeth was fated to
have rather a confusing effect.

The neighbours, who had called when
she first returned, with inquiries,  always
met by Bunton with the time-honoured
and enigmatical reply, " that Mrs. Lorimer
was as well as could be expected," 
now began to come to Claybrooke Rectory
with a distinct intention of seeing
the young widow, and judging for themselves
of her appearance and state of mind.
Not only were her present circumstances
decidedly romantic and interesting, but she
had, so it was said, during the last twelvemonths,
wandered over half the countries
of Southern Europe  local imaginations
had considerably extended the area of
Elizabeth's peregrinations. Most of the
natives of Midlandshire feel a little insecure
out of their own county, and would
appear, for some occult reason, to have a
considerable suspicion of foreign travel.

VOL. I. G

They regard those persons who indulge
in it as remarkably daring and slightly
dangerous at the same time. Paris is immoral,
Italy priest-ridden, Germany atheistical,
Switzerland absurdly mountainous
and undoubtedly a bad hunting country, 
we all know these things in Midlandshire,
and consequently most of us stay at home.
At the same time, when any adventurous
wight does return from foreign parts, weare
sensible of a certain flutter of excitement,
which we do our best to conceal
under a smiling and slightly contemptuous
manner. It follows, therefore, that Elizabeth
not only claimed attention in virtue of
her recent bereavement, but that she was
looked upon as a sort of spiritual daughter
of Christopher Columbus and of Captain
Cook.

Lady Melvin, stout, dignified, and kindly,
drove over in state from Melvin's Keeping,
and indulged in many well-intentioned
commonplaces, which she wished to be

sympathetic and consolatory, but which
were, in fact, extremely tedious.

Mrs. Adnitt, the wife of the squire of
Lowcote, came too, desiring sincerely to
say everything that was becoming and appropriate
to the occasion : but, out of the
fulness of the heart the mouth will speak,
and she soon exhausted her stock of sentiments
regarding Elizabeth's sad loss, and
began pouring a catalogue of the sins and
offences of that much-misconstrued gentleman,
Mr. Leeper, into Mrs. Mainwaring's
not unwilling ears.  Mr. Leeper actually
wanted what he called " free and open
sittings." Imagine her, Mrs. Adnitt, and the
Squire getting rather late to church some
Sunday morning  the Squire did certainly
take some time over his breakfast, and
liked, too, to go down to the stables and
just have a " look round "before starting
for church, so they were sometimes a little
late,  imagine, then, their arriving and
finding Jones, the Radical baker, who

openly refused his vote to the Conservative
candidate at the last general election,
calmly established in their time-honoured
family pew. Such a possibility was
alarming and distressing in a high degree ;
and yet obviously such a thing might
easily happen, if the sittings were all free.
Mr, Leeper, like many other prophets,
had but a scant amount of honour in his
own country.

The Harbages called another day.
They drove over, a party of six, in a hired
vehicle  a hybrid kind of waggonette,
with a distant suggestion of a carrier's
cart about it,  blessed with a canary-coloured
body and wheels. This machine
is much patronised in the district around
Highthorne by those of the inhabitants
whose circumstances are not sufficiently
affluent to admit of their keeping a horse
and carriage of their own. Mr. Harbage
always drove ; that is to say, he held the
reins and fished gently at the horse's back

with the whip. His driving in no way
resembled that of Jehu the son of Nisi,
and the waggonette proceeded very slowly
over the face of the earth. But Mrs.
Harbage made a great point of her
husband's driving, all the same ; for she
was possessed with a strong desire to
impress the passers-by with a sense of her
entire ownership of the vehicle. This
was a very innocent fraud, deceiving
nobody, inasmuch as the yellow body
and wheels are perfectly well known to
every one on that side of the county :
but it afforded Mrs. Harbage a little
anxious satisfaction, and saved an extra
shilling for the driver, and as it merely
caused other people some kindly amusement,
perhaps it was, on the whole,
as good an arrangement as most other
arrangements in this piecemeal world.

Mrs. Harbage, leaving the two younger
girls in the carriage when the party at
last reached Claybrooke Rectory, proceeded

into the drawing-room with her
eldest daughter and Emily, her husband
mildly bringing up the rear.

Mrs. Harbage had driven over from
Highthorne, that day, cheered by a sense
that the mighty had fallen and that she
was going to have the delicate privilege of
seeing them lie prostrate. She had, indeed,
brought Emily on purpose that that
dear girl might realise all the sorrow and
disaster she had escaped by remaining ina
state of single blessedness. But Elizabeth
Lorimer looked so serene and handsome,
notwithstanding the melancholy
suggestions of her deep mourning dress ;
the drawing-room at the Rectory was so
redolent of solid comfort ; the tea so
excellent ; the cream and cake so rich ;
Bunton so dignified and condescending in
helping the ladies to climb down from,
and later to struggle up into the waggonette,
 that poor Mrs. Harbage began to
be doubtful whether the mighty had fallen

after all, and whether Emily really had,
on the whole, so very much cause for
thanksgiving. The thought of an unpaid
coal - merchant's bill and butcher's book
haunted her mind : and a sense of the
curiously unequal division of the goods of
this world oppressed her spirit. It maybe
difficult for the rich to enter into the
kingdom of heaven : but experience had
taught Mrs. Harbage, long ago, that it is
often difficult for the poor  harassed by
care, and worry, and weary with work  to
find time to think about the kingdom of
heaven at all.

Other friends and neighbours called
too ; and mostly went away with the
impression that Elizabeth Lorimer was,
perhaps, a trifle better than " could be
expected ;" and that she was quite unlikely
to drain dry their stock of amiable
surface sympathy, by making too
great demands upon it. Perhaps they
were just a little annoyed, as they had

counted on the circumstances of their
several visits to Claybrooke Rectory for
supplying them, both with a distinct
emotion, and with a subject for much
subsequent conversation. The ladies,
indeed, permitted themselves a mild
revenge, by hinting at Elizabeth's apparent
insensibility to her position ; and
their ruffled plumes were by no means
smoothed down by the fact that husbands,
brothers, and sons  who somewhat against
their will had been inveigled into paying
this visit of condolence  invariably remarked
on the way home that " Mrs.
Lorimer certainly was, taken all round,
one of the handsomest women that they
the speakers  had ever seen." It
is not a little trying in a very quiet
neighbourhood to be disappointed of
an emotion : but how greatly is that
disappointment embittered, when the
very person who has caused it is pronounced,
by those whose views of

female beauty are of peculiar importance
to you, to be an unusually pretty
woman !

Elizabeth, though embarrassed and
slightly irritated at being thus regarded
in the light of a show which all the
country-side thought it had a right to
come and gaze at, was behaving with
considerable self-control and moderation.
Mr. Mainwaring's little speech had
moved her, and had laid the rebellious
spirit within her at least for a time. She
studiously avoided any allusion to their
late controversy, with her aunt ; and
though both women were sensible that
there was a certain want of cordiality in
their relations,  that they had taken a
step apart, and must look at each other
in future through the separating medium
of a distinct difference of opinion, things
were going on very fairly well on the
whole. One day, certainly, there seemed
some danger of a sharp collision : but

they both were wanting in the courage
necessary for a real battle.

As the warm weather came on, Elizabeth
. began to have a strong distaste for
her heavy, black, stuff dresses, with their
interminable crape trimmings. They
seemed so conventional and unimaginative,
so hot and dusty, altogether such a
blot on the fair hopeful spring-time, with
its delicate scents and colours, and promise
of radiant blossoms.

Elizabeth had a very limited belief in
"the right thing." She was a little disposed
to tilt at custom, as Don Quixote
tilted at the proverbial windmills ; and
with the same result. For custom, like the
wind-mills, would certainly stand firm, while
poor Elizabeth, like the gallant though fantastic
knight, would only get an unpleasant
roll in the dust for her pains. In time
experience teaches most of us that custom
is, on the whole, wise in her verdicts : but
all vigorous and generous young souls have

to purchase their conviction of her wisdom
at the cost of a few tumbles  humbling
no doubt in the present, yet very salutary
in the long-run.

Elizabeth argued thus,  not only did
the crape-covered gowns weary her, but
surely her husband, who delighted to see
her enhance her natural beauty by wearing
graceful and becoming garments, would
have been the first to entreat her to lay
off these ugly conventional trappings of
woe. Surely she did not need these
commonplace, almost vulgar, outward
signs of sorrow to keep memory green,
and , remind her of that pathetic parting
down by the purple Mediterranean? These
unsightly stuffy dresses made her think no
whit more tenderly of the dead ; while
they seemed to her painfully out of harmony
with the awakening beauty of
nature, which Robert Lorimer had loved
so well.

She had pulled the offending dresses

out on to her bed one morning, and was
standing over them, in company with
Smart her aunt's maid, regarding them
with an air of strong distaste, when Mrs.
Mainwaring herself  with her neat little
figure, delicately pink cheeks, and spotless
white cap with its waving lappets  came
quietly into the room. She stopped and
looked at the pile of black garments with
just a faint suggestion of surprise.

Elizabeth was sensible of a restraining
influence directly. Mrs. Mainwaring's
gentle astonishment seemed the visible
symbol of all those recognised proprieties
of life respecting " mourning," which Elizabeth
was just proposing to violate. Mrs.
Mainwaring's surprise implied the surprise
of all respectable and well-regulated persons.
Individually, she was not very
alarming perhaps : but as the representative
of a widely-accepted and deeply -
cherished idea she became very formidable,
and Elizabeth found herself shifting

her ground and moderating her desires,
with a rapidity which she had to admit
was both humiliating and amusing.

I have been looking through all my
clothes with Smart, Aunt Susan," she
said. " They are so dreadfully hot and
heavy, that I must have something done
to them."

The pink tint deepened a little in Mrs.
Mainwaring's cheeks ; she had a painful
sense that she was on the edge of one of
those struggles in which her love of her
niece, and her love of tradition, must meet
in battle array.

You cannot, of course, think of making
any change in your mourning so soon, my
dear," she said, with gentle decision.

These gowns are fearfully hot, now
that the weather is getting so warm,"
Elizabeth observed, avoiding any more
direct reply.

Mrs. Mainwaring turned over one or
two of the dresses slowly. She wished to

appear open to conviction. She knew by
experience that mere assertions carried
very Httle weight with Elizabeth : but, it
was so utterly obvious to her mind that
within six months of a husband's death
no amount of crape could be too great to
testify to his widow's decent grief, that she
found it impossible to sympathise in her
niece's evident desire for some modification
of her costume. Mrs. Mainwaring
was as far from questioning the dictates of
custom, as she was from questioning the
existence of the sun in the pale spring sky
outside.

At last she said, looking rather at
Smart than at Elizabeth 

Dresses of this description are always
worn for at least one year under such
circumstances, are they not ? "

Smart, having a strong desire to remain
neutral, and run no risk of offending
either of the contending parties, pulled
the dresses about a little, with a critical

and professional air, but wisely said nothing.


Anyway," observed Elizabeth, with a
touch of impatience, " I must get something
thinner for the summer. I should
half die of heat if I wore these things all
through the hot weather."

The stuffs are very thick, ma'am,"
remarked Smart, putting in a timid oar.

Mrs. Mainwaring stood quite still and
silent, feeling most unnecessarily unhappy.
To persons of her rather narrow nature
trivial matters are of almost dreadful
importance  a question of a little more
or less crape will often be more painfully
agitating to such a woman than the fall
of an empire is to a philosopher. She felt
acutely, too, that Smart was deserting her
meanly and going over to the enemy ;
that she stood alone in the defence of
sacred custom and propriety. To some
people it is infinitely depressing to be in
the minority.

I think," said Elizabeth, suddenly
struck by a happy idea, " I'll write to
Fanny and ask her to get me some
summer things  thin, you know, and yet
suitable."

Fanny ? " inquired Mrs. Mainwaring,
looking up.

"Yes, Fanny Lorimer  my sister-in-law,"
answered Elizabeth a little defiantly.
She dresses admirably. Aunt Susan.
She would find me exactly the right thing."

I should have thought it would have
been wiser to trust to your own taste in
this matter  or mine," said Mrs. Main-waring
with mild dignity.

But, in any case, the gowns must
have been made up in London," answered
Elizabeth, " so it is really simpler to get
some one to choose them who is on the
spot."

There is an excellent dressmaker in
Slowby, Elizabeth," said Mrs. Mainwaring,
with a certain finality in her tone.

Smart was present, and she would not
let this discussion degenerate into anything
approaching to wrangling. She had stated
her own opinion ; she had indicated the
right road to Elizabeth. Mrs. Mainspring
felt that circumstances were against
her : had she been alone with her niece,
she thought it would have been her duty
to say more. As it was, she determined
at least to save her own dignity. She
had protested ; now she washed her hands
of the matter, and retired in good order
from the scene of the fray ; leaving to
Elizabeth  along with her rather doubtful
victory  a sense of discomfort and
indecision, which resulted in her not
writing to Fanny Lorimer, but putting
on the heavy gowns again and wearing
them, with what patience she might, to the
end of the summer.

This little episode did not tend to increase
the limited cordiality existing between
the two ladies. Elizabeth might

VOL. 1. H

submit outwardly : but her spirit remained
free and uninfluenced. Each of these differences
of opinion helped to clear away
the mists of habit from her eyes. She
ceased to take Mrs. Mainwaring for
granted ; she stood outside her, and looked
at her, and judged her. The judgments
of the young are cruelly just. They have
not learned by experience of life, and experience
of their own failings and shortcomings,
to temper justice with mercy.
They cause the unhappy culprit to stand
in the full glare of the untempered sunlight,
and notice every spot, and blemish,
and rent, with terrible accuracy. The
young are charming, and beautiful, and
poetic, and the sight of them stirs our
more languid pulses with the memory of
past joys and hopes : but, when it comes
to judgment and criticism of conduct, in
pity, give us the tried hard-worked manor
woman, who has fainted and wrestled,
and through much tribulation has gained

a touch of the divine compassion that is
not " extreme to mark what is done amiss."
It is piteous to think that matters
of crape and black stuff, trifles of etiquette
or of social standing, may loosen
the cords of love and embitter life
far more than great sorrows. But truly
the rubs and worries of every day, differences
of temperament, little misunderstandings
which almost inevitably arise
between persons of two different generations,
are enough to cloud the sunshine
and turn the milk of human kindness
very sour. These wretched trifles 
hardly deserving of a moment's serious
consideration  have the power, in course
of time, of changing human relationships,
from the deepest source of joy, into a
perfect flood of discomfort. It is not
without a certain truth that Cupid has
been always figured with a broad band
over his pretty eyes. When he takes off
that band, and looks the object of his

devotion fairly in the face, he is apt to
become more of a critic than a lover ;
and the critic has always a savour of
contempt in his composition.

The last two years of her life, which
had been spent with a man her equal in
intelligence, and her superior in culture
and knowledge of the world, had removed
the band from Elizabeth's eyes as far as
Mrs. Mainwaring was concerned, and she
regarded that lady's conduct and action
with rather unfortunate clearness. She
had ceased to believe in Mrs. Main war -
ing's small social code. She knew that
there was a great section of the world to
which Mrs. Mainwaring would appear
very provincial and unimportant. She
had learned that all social judgments are
relative rather that absolute ; and her
aunt's belief in the infallibility of her own
set " was very irritating to Elizabeth.
With the logical intolerance of youth and
inexperience, she went farther still. Having

discovered that Mrs. Mainwaring was
narrow-minded in some matters, she concluded
that she was narrow-minded in all.
She did not admit this to herself in so
many words, it is true : but she got into
a habit of expecting her aunt's views to
be inadequate and unimaginative, till
almost every word the poor lady said
raised an inclination to opposition within
her.

Towards her uncle Elizabeth's feeling
was quite different. Cupid still had his
eyes bandaged, and had not exchanged
love for criticism. To begin with, there
was the tie of common blood between the
uncle and niece ; the sympathy which
comes of hereditary instincts, and which
often unites persons whose characters
may, on the surface, seem to be very
different. For Mr. Mainwaring's wishes
and desires Elizabeth had an instinctive
regard. She was almost contented
to be dull at Claybrooke, if by remaining

there she made him happier and gave
him pleasure.

It was not only his true fatherly affection
for her which made Mr. Mainwaring
so dear to Elizabeth ; she was a person
singularly influenced by her early emotions
and impressions. To most people, I suppose,
the Rector would not have appeared
a very romantic figure : but to Elizabeth's
childish imagination, on one of his great
raking hunters, clothed with the dignity
of hunting - boots and spurs, he had
seemed to embody all the gallant spirit
of chivalry. The little girl fancied that
the heroes of Sir Walter Scott's delightful
stories must have ridden just
such horses, and had the same air of
perfect physical strength and pleasant
courtesy about them. Elizabeth, as a
child, had never been fired with the idea
of military glory ; had never seen glittering
uniforms, or been moved with a sense
of passionate exhilaration at the sound of

martial music ; had never been overcome
with the wonderful pathos of all that
brave show with its implied possibilities
of horror, and agony, and death. So it
happened that fox-hunting country gentlemen,
commonplace easy - going people
engaged merely in the pursuit of their
own pleasure, represented to her the
fine disregard of danger and indifference
to bodily discomfort and hurt, that is so
entirely captivating to most women's
minds. It is the fashion nowadays to
deprecate the poetry of broken bones as
uncultivated and archaic ; but, " higher
education," board-schools, and certificates
notwithstanding, most people are still
ruled more by their instincts and feelings
than by pure reason, or a delicate perception
of artistic cause and effect. A
man's voluntary disregard of danger still
claims a woman's sincere admiration.
The members of the softer sex have a
latent element of savagery in them which

makes many of them disposed, even in the
nineteenth century, to rate brute courage
above the cardinal virtues.

Thus Elizabeth was strongly influenced,
in two very different ways, by her feeling
for Mr. Mainwaring. Notwithstanding her
admiration for the broader and more cultivated
life which she knew her brother-in-law
and all his friends lived, from early
habit and association, Elizabeth was conscious
of possessing a strange tenderness
for men of her uncle's type ; and she was
never quite certain to which of these two
very different orders of beings she really
belonged.

Anyway, she did not criticise Mr. Main-waring
much ; she asked herself no
questions about him : but loved him
simply, and as a natural result desired to
please him.

CHAPTER V.

' Whilst yet the calm hours creep,
Dream thou  and from thy sleep
Then wake to weep."

In the beginning of July the Rector left
home for a week. He went to receive
rents from, and listen to the complaints
of his tenants on a small property which
he owned in another county. This expedition
was of yearly occurrence, and was
regarded as a grave event in the household.
Mr. Mainwaring stayed at the
house of his bailiff; taking Bunton with
him, and thereby securing not only his own
comfort, but many interesting subjects of
conversation for the subsequent delectation
of the servant's hall at Claybrooke,  as the
worthy butler returned home with a budget

of gossip and stories not unworthy of
Scheherazade herself!

Mrs. Mainwaring, to whom the notion
of a railway journey was always a little
alarming, and whose devotion to her husband
made her  after nearly forty years
of married life  quite as unwilling to part
from him for a week as she had been
within six months of her wedding-day, announced,
as usual, her intention of driving
over with the Rector to Slowby, and seeing
him safely off by the three o'clock up train.

There was a great sense of movement
in the usually quiet, well-regulated household.
" The fine old English gentleman "
is always remarkably full of business and
importance on the day of even a short
journey. He gives orders in a loud
voice in the hall and passages ; walks
about with steps that resound through the
house ; is undecided about the number of
pairs of boots he will require to take with
him, and has a general air of severe preoccupation,

as though urgent affairs of
state weighed heavy on his spirit. Bunton,
like all good servants, thought it right to
adopt a touch of his master's manner and
attitude of mind. He was as dignified
and seriously solicitous over the packing
of a couple of portmanteaus, as though he
was on the eve of starting with Mr. Main-waring
on an exploring expedition into
the heart of Africa. He intimated to the
maids, several times, during the course of
the morning that, though no doubt they
might be said to have some place  a small
one  in the general economy of things,
yet they were but trivial creatures at best,
and wholly unequal to great and solemn
undertakings, such as that which he now
had before him.

I fancy there is no class of men who
take themselves, and their occupations and
engagements, so entirely for granted as the
old-fashioned English country gentleman,
and the said gentleman's old-fashioned

faithful man-servant. They do everything
with a seriousness and an amount of conviction
which is at once comic and impressive
to the Bohemian " dweller intents,"
whose tendency is to smile at
everything  himself, most of all. But
though, to an emancipated mind, it may
seem a little absurd that any class of persons
should be possessed of such an earnest
and sincere belief in themselves, it must
be admitted that they have an amount
of solid individual character which is too
often wanting in more brilliant men.
They are at one with nature, in fact, 
though they have little enough imaginative
appreciation of her beauties ; and from
that at-oneness springs a strength and self-confidence
which is rightly very powerful.
Elizabeth, when the travellers, with portmanteaus,
sticks, whips, umbrellas, and all
their various impedimenta  Mrs. Main-waring
included  had at last started for
the station, went up to her own room.

It was a large low chamber in an angle
of the house, with two long motioned
windows. One of these looked out to the
west, across the broad pasture-lands, to
the faint blue line of the distant horizon.
The other looked south, over a foreground
of brilliant flower-beds, to a thick bank of
shrubbery and larch-trees, the tallest of
which were delicately outlined against the
sky. In this southern window  through
which the sun now poured, filling the low
room with mellow radiance  stood a
writing-table. Elizabeth pushed it a little
aside, to get the window clear ; and
after laying off her hot black dress,
and putting on a white linen wrapper,
she sat herself down comfortably in a
big chintz-covered chair and prepared to
give herself over to luxurious rest of body,
at least, if not also of mind.

The old house was quiet, with the sleepy
summer quiet which is so utterly restful
and soothing. Now and then there was a

footstep on the gravel in the garden
below, or the comfortable rumble and
squeak of a wheel-barrow, or the hushing
sound of a broom,  nice careful noises,
implying tidiness, and gentle labour, and
a decent regard for appearances. The
breeze came in laden with the scent of
honeysuckle and jasmine through the wide
open casements ; and a bunch of tea roses,
set in an old blue-and-white china jar on
the table, added its delicate sweetness to
the atmosphere of the room.

Elizabeth sank back into the deep armchair
with a little sigh. The sunshiny
stillness was very pleasant ; all her surroundings
were thoroughly comfortable,
and eminently respectable ; but, at one-ands
twenty, stillness however sunshiny,
comfort however solid, and respectability
however obvious and undeniable, are hardly
enough to yield entire content and satisfaction.
At fifty or sixty, Elizabeth
thought they might be sufficient. Then

life would be pretty well over, and the
shadows would be growing long, and a
calm evening would be soothing after the
busy day : but at her age it seemed sad
to have nothing better to do than count
the quiet hours growing into quiet days
and weeks, while the Rector took his little
journeys, and Mrs. Mainwaring mildly ruled
her docile household, and paid dignified
afternoon calls. At one-and-twenty, few
handsome young women, with plenty of
health and strength, busy brains, and unfulfilled
desires, would care to settle down in a
land "in which it seemed always afternoon."

Perhaps, on this particular day Elizabeth
was all the more ready to resent her
position and quarrel with her peaceful lot,
because she had received some letters by
the morning's post which had opened an
unexpected prospect before her.

She had only had time to glance
at them when they arrived, as Mr. Main-waring's
impending exodus had demanded

her  as well as every one else's  complete
attention : but now, in her own
room, she hoped to give them her serious
consideration, and arrive at some
definite conclusion regarding their contents
before Mrs. Mainwaring  who was sure todo
a little composed shopping in Slowby
should get home, about half-past five
o'clock, to tea.

The first letter was from Robert Lorimer's
old lawyer, and dealt merely with a
matter of business. In addition to an income
of about a thousand a year, her husband
had left to Elizabeth a house, in the
rather uninteresting district of south-west
London which stretches from around
Victoria Station down towards the river.
Robert Lorimer had taken this house on
a long lease shortly before his marriage.
The Frank Lorimerss and various friends
lived near by ; and the young couple had
settled down in their London home, with
the expectation of spending many years

in it. But in point of fact they spent
barely one year there. Robert Lorimer's
health broke down, as has already been
stated ; he and his wife were hurried
abroad at very short notice, and the house
was let. Now, the lawyer wrote to inform
Elizabeth that the family, which had taken
the house, wished to give it up when their
year expired in the coming September ;
and to ask whether she desired that he
should put it into the hands of some
house-agent with a view to securing
another tenant, or whether she proposed
occupying it herself

The information and suggestion contained
in this letter came upon Elizabeth
with the force of a considerable surprise.
She had been too confused and unhappy
when she left London to trouble herself
about business ; and the matter of the
letting of the house had entirely passed
from her mind.

Her first feeling on reading this letter
VOL. I. I

was one of shrinking. How could she go
back and live alone in a place so full of
memories and disappointments? She did
not disguise from herself that her marriage
had, in some ways, not been an entire
success. It would be painful to be clearly-reminded
of all that it had not been, as
well as of all that it had been. Both
the sweet and bitter of memory would goto
swell the stream of her regret.

But, on the other hand, the prospect of
a long dreary winter in the cold damp midlands,
when the roads would be too bad to
admit of the interchange of the mildest of
social civilities, and when the fields would
be too muddy to walk over, was far from
exhilarating. Mr. Mainwaring's chief employment,
and, alas ! his chief subject of
conversation, would be hunting. For days
and weeks Elizabeth would have no one
to speak to but her aunt ; and she was
beginning to feel a little nervous at the
idea of frequent tete-d-tetes with Mrs.

Mainwaring. Even in the summer sunshine
the old Rectory - house, with its
inmates and surroundings, was a trifle
wearisome to her ; what would it be,
she wondered, in cheerless December or
January weather? She longed to live
vividly. It was better even to suffer than
to stagnate. Would the London house,
haunted though it was by memories of her
husband and her short married life  would
it not, she thought, after all be preferable
to the sameness and everlasting " afternoon
" of her Claybrooke existence ?

Elizabeth, lying back in the chintz-covered
chair in her soft white wrapper,
with the sweet scents wandering in through
the open window, wondered and pondered
and balanced these two views of the question,
and found it almost impossible to
arrive at any decision.

If her uncle had not been engaged with
the unusual turmoil of preparation for a
journey that morning, she would have

consulted him, and probably some chance
word or look of his would have touched
the latent springs of tenderness and homely
duty within her, and she would have stayed
quietly at Claybrooke,  in which case her
subsequent history would probably have
been of a very simple and uneventful kind.
But early in the day she had perceived that
it was not a good opportunity for asking
Mr. Mainwaring to apply a calm and
judicial mind to the contemplation of her
affairs ; and so she found herself compelled
to arrive at an unaided decision.

The more she thought the matter over,
the more was Elizabeth disposed to entertain
the idea of going up to London for
the winter. She would give herself a little
time anyway. She would not write at once
and say that she wished the house to be let.
She would pause  perhaps tomorrow she
should see more clearly what to do. Only
she was sensible of an ever-growing desire
to be free, to be her own mistress again.

I am afraid it cannot be denied that
my poor Elizabeth was egotistical, and
looked at most things from the point of
view of her own wishes : but strong natures
are inevitably a good deal occupied
with themselves and their own sensations.
Let those who are wiser reckon them as
fools if they will ; and then proceed to
suffer them gladly, being sure that they are
pretty certain to find their own level in time.

The other letter was of a very different
nature, and Elizabeth picked it up with a
sense of relief after her mental struggle with
the intricate question of the London house.

It was written in Mrs. Frank Lorimer's
very neat little hand, adorned with many
notes of admiration and much undermining,
intended to point out and emphasise the
writer's exact meaning in each sentence.
But notwithstanding the exuberance of
feeling that might be suggested by this
style of telegraphy, and by the frequent
use of superlatives, there was a force

and clearness in the handwriting which
implied that Mrs. Frank Lorimer, though
of a lively disposition, was by no means
in doubt as to her own intentions ; that
she knew her own mind and would have
no hesitation in speaking it, when it might
suit her purpose to do so.

Dearest and sweetest Elizabeth," the
letter began, " I have been in a state of
absolute distraction at not being able to
write to you for so long : but all my
time has been taken up with the babies.
Imagine, they caught the measles from
some horrid children their nurse let them
play with in the square, unknown to me !
Of course I was furious. Other people's
children have no right to give my children
measles. However, fortunately, they were
not at all seriously ill ; only, poor darlings,
more cross than I can say. They have
been a pair of perfect little bears for the
last month, and nurse and I have been atour
wits' ends with them. Now they are

getting all right again : but, as they still
look wretchedly white and pulled, I have
decided to take them out of town at once.
It is rather a nuisance in some ways, as I
didn't mean to go away till the beginning
of August, but that can't be helped. I
have settled to go off next week to a nice,
dull, healthy, little place on the coast of
Normandy, where we spent two months
last summer. It is ten miles from a
railway, and quite charming,  when you
get there ! Frank will take us over, and
then come back to his newspaper, and
join us again later on.

"And now, my dearest Elizabeth, at
last I come to Hecuba. The babies and
their odious little tempers  pretty dears,
and their measles are only a prelude.
Won't you come too ?  Imagine how
enchanted I should be to have you !
And it would do you no end of good. I
am sure, saving your presence, that you
must be getting uncommonly bored at

Claybrooke. Frank told me it was a
lovely old house : but that the country
was infinitely dismal, and that Mr. and
Mrs. Mainwaring  please don't be angry
were immensely impressive and stately,
he trembled before them,  but that
respectability reigned to a truly alarming
extent. My dear, I feel a little stifled
when I think of you guarded by these
proprietors and unimaginative dragons.
For goodness' sake, Elizabeth, escape fora
little while, and come and build sand
castles with the babies and me in Normandy
! We should have a lovely time.

I can't promise you that we shall be
quite alone. If Frank was to set up
business at the North Pole, or in the
moon, some of his adoring friends would
turn up even there, I believe. But the
friend in chief just now  a certain Mr.
Fred Wharton  is the only one of the
society who is booked to stay long. And
he really is charming  plays delightfully,

is by way of making enormous sums by
his pictures, and will talk any amount of
mild philosophy. He and I quarrel incessantly
; but that gives a delicate point
to existence, you know, and is rather
agreeable than otherwise. Of course
you will have a difficulty in escaping
from the dragons  from what Frank
told me, I feel sure they think us most
dangerous and undesirable. But, my dear,
never mind them, just take your courage
in both hands and come. I shall be
perfectly delighted to have you, and so
will Frank  he is your most truly devoted
admirer. We start on Thursday week.
Now, Elizabeth, come, I entreat you.
The babies send kisses.  Always your

most affectionate,

"Fanny Lorimer."

Elizabeth could not help smiling at her
sister-in-law's remarkable volubility as
she laid down the letter ; and yet she was
sensible of feeling a little annoyed. It is

one thing to think slightly uncivil things
of one's own relations, and quite another
thing to have somebody else say them.
Elizabeth had remarked, several times
before this, that Mrs. Frank Lorimer's
vivacity occasionally betrayed her into
indiscretions. Elizabeth did not quite
approve of the way in which she spoke of
the Mainwarings, for it is never entirely
agreeable to have an outsider put our
secret thoughts into words, thereby generally
showing us that the said thoughts
are by no . means wholly graceful and
unselfish. Elizabeth was aware of a
sudden movement of tenderness towards
Claybrooke and her relations there, inconsequence
of Fanny Lorimer's strictures
upon them.

It would undoubtedly be very pleasant
to go off to the breezy French coast, and
play with the two pretty, curly-headed,
little children on the sea-shore, and listen
to Mrs. Frank's amusing chatter, and talk

mild philosophy to Frank and his society
of friends : but the idea of going up to
London for the winter commended itself
more and more to her mind. And the
thought of giving up this trip with the
Lorimerss for the sake of remaining with
her aunt and uncle was a little salve to
Elizabeth's conscience  which, she foresaw,
might give her some trouble regarding
her leaving Claybrooke for the winter.

The afternoon grew more and more
hot and sultry, and Elizabeth's meditations,
as she lay stretched out in the deep
chair with her feet resting on the oak
window-seat, grew more and more vague
and misty. At last her eyes closed, and
she lost consciousness of her surroundings.
She and Mrs. Mainwaring seemed
to be building sand castles on the seashore
: but the incoming tide always
washed Elizabeth's castles away first. She
built up one after another with desperate
haste. It seemed that the whole happiness

of her future depended on her castles
outlasting Mrs. Mainwaring's : but the
frothy salt water undermined one after
another, and they sank away into the
plain level of the wet sand. Elizabeth
shifted her position uneasily once or
twice, and then, settling into a more
comfortable posture, slept on quietly, while
the little gusts of wind tangled her brown
hair into pretty confusion over her low
forehead, and a soft blush came up into
her cheeks, as into those of a sleeping
child.

One of the many unamiable peculiarities
of the climate of Midlandshire 
stoutly denied, however, by the natives,
who, one and all, maintain that if our
climate is not precisely Italian, it is still
thoroughly good and eminently bracing
and healthy  is, that you rarely get a
really clear sky for more than a few hours
together.

During the morning, and even till the

time that Mr. Main waring started for
Slowby, the day had been radiantly
bright : but as the afternoon wore on, a
thin layer of white cloud wove itself, as
usual, over the face of the sky, and the
sun shone through it with a pale diffused
light. At last, the breeze dropped, while
the atmosphere became more and more
oppressive ; and heavy masses of reddish
white cloud began to rise out of the
south-east, obscuring the dim sunlight
and threatening a storm.

Elizabeth slept on quietly for sometime,
and was awakened at last by a long
growl of still distant thunder. She got
up hastily, and, looking out of the window
over the hot misty country, observed the
unmistakable signs of an on-coming storm.
The sky was becoming covered with
rapidly-moving lurid clouds ; quick irritable
little winds ruffled the heavy foliage
of the trees for a moment and then died
suddenly away.

Elizabeth had that uneasy suspicion of
approaching trouble and disaster which
often oppresses persons of a sensitive
organisation before the breaking of a
bad storm. She remembered that Mrs.
Mainwaring must just be driving along
the exposed highroad from Slowby, and
wished nervously that she was already
home.

Partly to overcome her instinctive feeling
of loneliness, and partly to ensure
hearing the carriage directly it should stop
at the front door, she set the door of her
own room wide open on to the broad
landing, at the farther end of which the
main staircase of the house led down
into the hall. Then coming back to her
chair near the window, she sat down to
watch the storm and listen for the arrival
of the carriage.

Mrs. Mainwaring, Elizabeth knew, had
an intense dislike of thunder, amounting
almost to terror. She regarded a thunderstorm

much as she might have regarded
a revolution. It seemed to her a horrible
subversion of the recognised order of
things. It surprised and confused her.
She liked well-regulated nature, useful
fields and trim hedgerows, lazily-flowing
streams, well-kept roads, and nicely laid-out
gardens. Nature should be dominated
by man and be educated by him, Mrs.
Mainwaring thought. Mountains and
forests seemed to her somewhat too disorganised
to be contemplated with anything
but a disturbed sense of astonishment.
In the same way she appreciated
moderate sunshine and convenient rains,
with an orthodox allowance of frost and
snow during the winter : but storms, and
tempests, and droughts, alarmed and distressed
her. They made everything seem
so dreadfully insecure and doubtful. Poor
Mrs. Mainwaring clung, with an almost
painful tenacity, to that which is usual,
and orderly, and well known. Everything

violent and unexpected, whether in outward
nature or in human emotion, was entirely
bewildering and incomprehensible to her.

It was past five o'clock when Elizabeth
at last heard the sound of carriage
wheels and the opening of the front door.
She hurried out on to the landing, while
the thunder rolled and crackled overhead.
Martha the housemaid,  who reigned below
stairs in the temporary absence of
Bunton,  was just saying, in answer to
a faint inquiry of Mrs. Mainwaring, that
Mrs. Lorimer was upstairs, she believed,
in her own room.

CHAPTER VI.

Virtue, how frail it is !
Friendship, how rare !
Love, how it sells poor bliss

For proud despair !
But we, though soon they fall,
Survive their joy, and all

Which ours we call."

Elizabeth waited, a tall, glimmering,
white figure, in the dusky gloom of the
landing, while Mrs. Mainwaring  her
small face pale with agitation  hurried
upstairs, anxious to find repose and
security after the turmoil of her stormy
drive home. Like most women of a
strong and ardent nature, Elizabeth was
quickly moved to loving compassion by
the sight of weak and timid creatures in
distress. Mrs. Mainwaring, in the serene
comfort of her daily life, was irritating to
VOL. I. K

her : but Mrs. Mainwaring, tired, wan, and
frightened, was a very touching and appealing
spectacle.

Ah ! dear Aunt Susan, I'm so glad
you are home," she said, taking her aunt's
hand and leading her gently into her own
room, the door of which still stood open.

Mrs. Mainwaring turned to her with a
clinging desire for support and encouragement.
A thunder-storm, and Gerald on
a railway journey, seemed to her a conjunction
of alarming circumstances, which
justified her in claiming all the tenderness
and affection that she could possibly get
hold of

Sit down," said Elizabeth, pushing the
big arm-chair round into a shady angle of
the room. " You won't see the lightning
so much there ; and let me take off your
things ; and let us have tea cosily up here,
and then you'll feel all right again. I
believe the worst of the storm is over
now."

While she spoke, she busied herself intaking
off Mrs. Mainwaring's bonnet and
overtake, and in arranging the cap with
white lappets, which she hastily fetched
from her aunt's room. I imagine that
when a middle-aged woman has once accepted
the inevitable, and taken to caps,
there is nothing more confusing and disturbing
to her than being without one,
even for a very few minutes.

Mrs. Mainwaring had often lamented
privately that her niece's hands were not
smaller. They were white and well-shaped,
she admitted : - but they had
always appeared to her a little too large
and strong for perfect womanly refinement.
On this occasion, however, as
Elizabeth adjusted the afore-mentioned
cap, and smoothed down her gray hair
with gentle reassuring touches, they
seemed very lovely hands to Mrs. Main-waring.
She put out her arms with a
sudden impulsive movement, and drawing

the beautiful pitiful face of the young
woman down towards her, kissed it with
quite unwonted ardour.

You are a dear, dear child, Elizabeth,"
she said tenderly ; " and it is very sweet
to have you so kind to me."

Her voice was a little tremulous, and
her eyes were full of tears. Mrs. Main-waring
had lost for a moment that proprietors
self-command and calm dignity
of demeanour, which  though very laudable
in themselves  were certainly liable
to keep most people at a very respectful
distance from her. The two women had
not felt so thoroughly at one for a long
while. They had got away from all that
is passing and superficial, into a region of
simple and kindly sympathy. There was
a delicate harmony between them, which
both felt to be eminently refreshing after
the discords and differences of the last
few months.

Poor Aunt Susan," said Elizabeth,

smiling as she looked down at the dainty
pretty, old lady. " You have been so
frightened and agitated. I have been
listening for the carriage for ever so long.
Then you were driving that young chesnut
horse, that Uncle Gerald wanted to
try,  I was in a great fuss about it,
because I thought very likely it would be
troublesome."

Yes," said Mrs. Mainwaring, " I was
very nervous. William drives very well :
but I never feel really safe without your
uncle. I can't bear being alone. I had
begged that we might try the chesnut
some other day, but your uncle was in a
hurry  he had given the orders, and I
didn't like to worry him just when he was
going away."

Then the last bit of the Slowby road
is so exposed," added Elizabeth.

Oh yes ! it was horrible. I don't
approve, you know, of strong expressions,
but it really was horrible. I am so thankful

to be at home safe," continued Mrs.
Mainwaring, with a Httle sigh of relief,
while she softly patted Elizabeth's hand,
which she still held.

The arrival of Martha with the tea
created a diversion ; and Elizabeth, having
no more convenient place to set the tray
on, cleared a space at one end of the
writing-table, bundling her various books
and papers into a heap at the other end,
to make room for it. This arrangement
was not altogether a tidy one, and consequently
not altogether to Mrs. Main-waring's
taste. She could not help observing
it with discomfort  all disorder
was painful to her  but she forbore to
make any open comment.

On the top of the other papers, conspicuous
both from its shape and colour, lay
the lawyer's letter that Elizabeth had lately
been reading. It lay open rather courting
notice; and Mrs. Mainwaring's attention,
as she sat waiting passively for her cup

of tea, was easily won. She could not
help noticing that it was a business
letter, and she began wondering vaguely
what it contained. At another time, she
would have disdained to appear to take
any unasked for interest in a private
matter of her niece's ; it would have been
almost impossible to her to put questions
about it : but her recent fright, and present
sense of returning comfort and security,
had somewhat relaxed her moral fibre, so
to speak. She felt idly fascinated by the
open letter ; her eyes wandered towards it
repeatedly, as Elizabeth poured out and
handed her her tea,  chatting all the while
about the storm, which still rolled overhead,
about Mr. Mainwaring's journey,
about the road from Slowby, and the
young chesnut horse. Mrs. Mainwaring
was aware of a growing desire to know
what business the letter could refer to ;
and became more and more disposed,
as she drank a second excellent and reassuring

cup of tea, and began to feel
quite secure of herself and at her ease
again, to ask some direct question concerning
it. Poor lady, her recent adventures
and emotions had shaken her out of
the safe little rut along which she generally
travelled ; and now that she was recovering
her footing, her state of mind was one in
which she was liable to make unfortunate
excursions in various directions !

As Mrs. Mainwaring finished her second
cup of tea, the temptation became altogether
too strong to be any longer resisted.
Elizabeth's thoughts had wandered away
to the Frank Lorimerss' proposal. She was
just remembering how she had fallen
asleep after reading her sister-in-law's letter,
and recalling her uncomfortable dream
about Mrs. Mainwaring and the sand
castles, when that lady suddenly spoke.
Elizabeth was roused immediately from
her reverie ; there seemed to be some
subtle connection between her own

thoughts and her aunt's unexpected
question.

Is that a letter from your lawyer,
Elizabeth?" asked Mrs. Mainwaring.

She felt rather glad that she was sitting
in the dark, for she was aware that she
flushed a little, and she wished to appear
perfectly easy and composed.

Yes," answered Elizabeth.

She was sorry, somehow, that her aunt
had asked her ; and, but for the softening
influences of their late meeting, and of
Mrs. Mainwaring's loving kiss, which still
lingered pleasantly with her, she would
probably have contented herself with that
laconic reply. Just now, however, she felt
but slight temptation to be ungracious towards
her aunt, even though she did ask
uncalled-for questions,  it is wonderfully
soothing and agreeable to be at peace
with other people. So after a moment's
pause, Elizabeth continued 

It is from Mr. Pimbury, about the

house we had in London. It seems that
the present tenant gives it up in September."


Indeed," said Mrs. Mainwaring,  tea
and, darkness made her brave ; she began
to think she had quite a right to know a
little more of this matter. " Did you
expect that it would be given up so
soon ?"

No' said Elizabeth, turning her face
away, and looking sadly out of the window
at the dull stormy sky. " I didn't remember
on what terms the house was let.
I was thinking of very different things
just at the time the arrangement was
made, you know. Aunt Susan."

Yes, yes," said Mrs. Mainwaring
hastily : but she had no disposition to let
the conversation drop.

Elizabeth felt a little worried ; she had
not any desire to enter fully into this
question, and to hint at her own half-formed
plans. At the same time she

wanted to be amiable ; and she had a
consciousness, too, that Mrs. Mainwaring
was sitting still there merely waiting for
further communications. It is never
pleasant to have information silently extracted
from one.

The letter only came to-day," said
Elizabeth at last, turning towards her aunt,
I should have spoken to Uncle Gerald
about it : but he was so busy this morning
that I didn't like to bother him with it."

Yes ?" answered Mrs. Mainwaring; but
with more of inquiry than of mere assent
in her tone.

The good lady was quite alert now.
All the limpness of half an hour ago
had gone out of her. She was refreshed
by tea and by sitting still In a safe
place ; the thunder, too, was slowly dying
away in the far distance, which was
decidedly encouraging to her spirits. She
was beginning to feel a little irritated at
Elizabeth's want of communicativeness: but

her moral fibre was no longer relaxed, and,
though she wanted more than ever to
know all about the matter, she had regained
sufficient self-control to be determined
to ask no more direct questions.

There was rather a long pause. Elizabeth
was stationed between the two
windows, so that the light was concentrated
about her white figure. She
sat resting one elbow on the corner of the
writing-table, and was apparently deeply
engaged in the not very intellectual
employment of balancing her tea-spoon
on the edge of her cup. It was the sort
of thing Mrs. Mainwaring could not
manage to be unconscious of She hated
to see things put to wrong uses. Somehow
the delicate sympathy which had
subsisted, a little while before, between the
two women seemed to be growing fainter
and fainter, and to be losing itself in the
light of common day. Each of them,
from different causes, felt a trifle annoyed

with the other. At last Elizabeth's spoon
slipped with a little flop and splash into her
cup. It seemed, somehow, to bring her to
a sudden decision, for she looked up and
spoke again.

Mr. Pimbury wants to know whether
I wish to have the house let again at once,
or keep it in my own hands."

There cannot be any doubt as to your
answer, my dear," Mrs. Mainwaring remarked
quietly, but a little incisively.

Why ? I don't quite understand you,"
answered Elizabeth, who, being conscious
of her own growing desires in the matter,
wished that her aunt did not think the
question so perfectly obvious and simple.

Of course you must let the house."

I don't quite see why it should be of
course," said Elizabeth, emphasising the
last two words, and beginning to feel
rather obstinate. " It really seems to mer



a matter that requires some little consideration."


"My dear, how can it?" replied Mrs.
Mainwaring.

She sat up quite straight in her chair.
The pink flush in her cheeks deepened.
She looked at Elizabeth with an air of
surprise, not to say consternation. It was
very tiresome, Mrs. Mainwaring felt, that,
just at the moment when everything seemed
to be going so pleasantly and smoothly, this
apple of discord should drop down between
them : but the proprieties were reasserting
their usual sway over her, and she felt
bound to speak clearly and decidedly,
however disagreeable it might be to do so.

It would be quite impossible for you
to live in London alone, you know ; and
there can be no object in the house standing
empty," she said.

I don't see that it would be at all
impossible for me to spend the winter in
London," answered Elizabeth. " I could
let the house again for the season and
come back here."

Mrs. Managing leant a little forward
in her dusky corner, and pressed the palms
of her hands together rather nervously as
they lay in her lap.

But, my dear Elizabeth, don't you
understand that a young woman of your
age and position ought not to live by
herself? It would appear so very strange;
I don't know what people would say. I
don't ask you to consider your uncle and
me, or our feelings at your leaving us ;
I merely ask you to think for a moment
how very strange this plan of yours must
appear to every one. You must see at
once that it is impossible. It couldn't be
done," said Mrs. Mainwaring with considerable
dignity and decision.

"But why couldn't it be done?" rejoined
Elizabeth. The fact that her aunt
treated the idea as utterly preposterous
raised a strong spirit of opposition in
her.

It is an unpleasing, but unfortunately a

certain fact, that two people are nevermore
likely to have a serious and bitter
quarrel than just when they are recovering
from an attack of unusually expansive
affection. The excitement produces a
reaction, which, too frequently, is very
dangerous.

Of course I only want to go for a
time. Aunt Susan," Elizabeth continued.
You know how glad I am to be with
you and Uncle Gerald : but I should
be very glad to spend a few months
in London. And, after all, why is it
so absurd for me to think of living
alone ? Lots of other women are obliged
to do it."

But you are not obliged to do it, my
dear," said Mrs. Mainwaring. " Here is
Claybrooke ; here are your own relations ;
here is the home you have always been
accustomed to. There is no reason for
you to seek another. You are not in the
position of a woman who is obliged to

live alone; in your case  indeed  it
would be obviously unbecoming."

"You speak altogether too strongly, Aunt
Susan," said Elizabeth quickly, straightening
herself up. " I am not in the habit
of proposing to do things that are obviously
unbecoming."

There was a pause. Mrs. Mainwaring
was aware that she had made a false step.

I wish, and I intend," said Elizabeth,
to see something of my  of Robert's relations
this year." She waited a moment to
steady her voice, which was a little shaky,
and then went on distinctly. " Fanny
Lorimer tells me how much they want to
see me. She asked me to go abroad with
them this month. I don't care to do
that just now : but I really must see something
of them later on. They would be
close to me in London, and I should like
to see them quietly in my own home. I
should prefer that to staying with them
for any length of time."

VOL. I. L

Mrs. Mainwaring looked down at her
clasped hands and said softly 

It would surely be unnecessary for
you to do that, in any case."

But I don't think so, you see," rejoined
Elizabeth rather hotly. " And in
this matter I really must follow my own
judgment, Aunt Susan."

I can't agree with you, my dear," said
Mrs. Mainwaring with quiet persistence.
"In a question like this, the opinion of
those who are older and more experienced
than you are,  of those who stand to you,
as your uncle and I do, in the place of
parents  their opinion, I must think,
should be not only considered, but abided
by."

Uncle Gerald has not had an opportunity
of giving his opinion yet," said
Elizabeth.

Well, then, in his absence, Elizabeth,
I hold it to be my duty to speak quite
plainly to you." Mrs. Mainwaring paused ;

she gathered up all her courage, and then
said, " Understand that I entirely disapprove
of this proposal, entirely."

Elizabeth stood up, and rested her
hands on the back of her chair. She was
growing a little excited, and sitting still
was irksome to her. She would have
been glad to avoid a scene with her aunt :
but she felt strongly that if she wanted to
secure her independence, it was a case of
now or never." Also she believed that
Mrs. Mainwaring's social objection to the
Frank Lorimerss was at the bottom of her
strong opposition to this London scheme.
Elizabeth was almost fiercely determined
to stand by her husband's relations. Her
very doubt as to her entire devotion to
Robert Lorimer made her desperately
anxious to pay all due honour to his
people. And, at this moment, her desire
for a larger and more vivid sphere of life
than that which Claybrooke offered her
ranged itself alongside her loyalty to the

dead, and made her ready to fight out the
battle with poor little Mrs. Mainwaring to
the bitter end.

I must speak plainly too," she said.
*' The real truth is that you can't endure
the Frank Lorimerss,  you don't think
them up to the mark,  you want me to
drop them altogether."

Pray, pray," cried Mrs. Mainwaring,
with an agitated little wave of her hands,
as though dismissing Robert Lorimer's
tiresome relations to the remotest quarter
of the globe, " Pray don't let us begin discussing
that unfortunate subject."

You want me to settle down," Elizabeth
went on, with increasing warmth,
ignoring the Frank Lorimerss' dismissal,
*' as if nothing had happened,  as if
there was no difference between what I
am now and what I was as a girl. You
want me just to miss out all the last few
years,  except in the way of wearing
black gowns. Don't you see, don't you

understand, that it is impossible for me
not to want to see Robert's relations ?
that I can't give up the past altogether ? "

You are quite wrong and mistaken
answered Mrs. Mainwaring quickly. " I
have no wish that you should not be
different,  that you should not realise
your situation. It is you, Elizabeth  I
must say it  who seem to me to disregard
your situation. Oh ! dear me," cried
the poor lady, in much agitation and distress,
" don't you see that it is hardly
decent  yes, really hardly decent for you
to propose to settle in London, and go
about and entertain people, when you
have been only a few months a widow ?
Don't you see that it is absolutely wanting
in proper respect for your husband's
memory ?

Elizabeth's face flamed scarlet. Now
she did not care what she said. Every
little unpleasant word that Mrs. Mainspring
had ever spoken, every worldly suggestion,

every small act of repression,
every want of comprehension of the position
of others, every stupidity that her
aunt had ever committed, rushed into
Elizabeth's mind. Like most of us, she
had an excellent memory for the faults of
her near relations. All the bitter feelings
she had nourished in secret against Mrs.
Mainwaring filled her, and overflowed,
pouring themselves forth in a torrent of
excited words.

How dare you say such a thing. Aunt
Susan ?" she cried. " How dare you
accuse me of such a thing ? You to
speak to me of want of proper respect,
when you are trying to make me give up
Robert's own brother, and hold myself too
fine to associate with him and his wife !
What would he have cared for the sort of
respect which consists in sitting upstairs
with the blinds half down, and wearing
loads of crape, and wondering whether
this and that and the other person thinks

you look unhappy enough?  A very
precious sort of respect that, consisting
in clothes merely, and little trivial
forms ; a careful paying of the tithe of
mint, and anise, and cummin, while the
weightier matters  the love, and the
justice, and gratitude, gratitude to his own
brother, to his own flesh and blood 
are forgotten and neglected ! You don't
understand me!" cried Elizabeth, "you
never have understood me ! You want
to run me into your own little social
mould, and have me for ever thinking
what a set of stupid, ignorant, unimportant
people are saying about me, instead of
letting me be honest and faithful, as I
want to be."

"You are cruel, you are very cruel,
Elizabeth," said Mrs. Mainwaring slowly.
She pressed her hand to her side, as if in
actual physical pain.

It is you, you that are cruel," answered
Elizabeth passionately. " You who want

to cramp and maim my poor life, and
build it in on every side with miserable
conventional usages. I want to
live ! Think ! already, though I am so
young, I have had troubles which you
know nothing about,  I have had to
bear disappointment, sorrow, and anguish.
Haven't I suffered enough already, but
that I must be thwarted and hedged in
at every turn with these wretched worldly
considerations?  that I must submit tamely
to be bored almost to death ?  that I must
settle down, finally, at one-and-twenty, in
the dullest of country neighbourhoods,
without a hope or prospect in the future ?
Don't you see I long to gather up my
life and begin again ; to do something ;
to be interested in living ? I am young
and strong ; I can't make up my mind to
stagnate here, wasting myself in useless
regrets. You have your husband. Aunt
Susan, and your home, and your life is
full of what you like. But I  look," she

said, spreading out her hands with a despairing
gesture. " I have absolutely
nothing. Surely you can get on perfectly
well without me? Let me go, at all
events, for a time ; let me see and know
the world; let me live a little, and not
rust here. Ah ! life may be so full and
beautiful for me somewhere else. Let me
go,  you have no right to prevent me !"

Just then the clouds parted, and the
glare of a stormy sunset filled all the room.
Elizabeth's white dress, as she stood in the
gaudy light, was stained with an angry
orange glow. Shaken with her passion
and with her own wild words, her brown
hair disordered and her eyes flashing, she
looked like the very spirit of the fierce and
beautiful sunset, away there, down in the
west.

Mrs. Mainwaring had risen too. She
stood in the dim and dusky corner of the
room, where Elizabeth had set the armchair
for her with so much tender solicitude

hardly an hour ago. Truly, only those
whom we love can really torture us in this
world. In that short hour, half the joy of
poor Mrs. Mainwaring's heart had withered,
and faded, and died. The child whom she
had brought up, whom she had tried to
persuade herself she loved as her very
own, had turned upon her and shown her
that there was a great gulf fixed between
them  had plucked the very heart out
of her poor, respectable, unimaginative
life, and trampled it under strong, relentless,
young feet. Mrs. Mainwaring was
filled with bitterness. She and Elizabeth
could never be the same to each other
again. There was a rent in their mutual
love, which could only be patched, and
never, it seemed to her, be mended wholly.
Mrs. Mainwaring felt very tired, she
wanted to go away and be quiet somewhere
: but she could not go without a
parting word. She steadied herself for a
moment, with one hand, on the arm of

her chair ; then she said, in a thin, hard
voice 

You are quite right, Elizabeth ; I do
not understand you. At this moment, I
confess, I have no wish to understand you,
for you seem to me to be in a singularly
exaggerated and ill-regulated state of
mind. We think very differently. I
may be rather old-fashioned : but you are
so painfully violent that it is quite useless
for us to attempt to have any further
conversation on this matter. While you
remain at Claybrooke, I must ask you to
treat me and my friends  whom you so
greatly despise  with common courtesy
and respect. And, for my part, you may
rest assured," she added, "that I shall not
interfere in any way with your plans and
arrangements in future."

As she finished speaking, Mrs. Main-waring
moved out from her shadowy
corner into the glare of the fierce sunlight.
Elizabeth was shocked when she saw how

pinched and aged she looked, as the light
fell on her. Her heart smote her, and she
came forward quickly.

Ah ! you are tired, you are ill, Aunt
Susan," she said. " I have "

But Mrs. Mainwaring put her sternly
aside.

I will begin at once to learn to do
without you, Elizabeth," she answered, and
went slowly out of the room.

Elizabeth flung herself down on the
floor, in the midst of the lurid sunshine,
and, resting her head on the hard window-seat,
sobbed bitterly.

Pride and remorse struggled together
within her. The picture of her past
troubles, and of her present desolation,
which she had called up by her own
words, affected her profoundly. Everything
seemed to have fallen short of her
hopes and expectations ; everything had
yielded her less joy and satisfaction than
she asked of it. Poor child ! she had

always desired so passionately to be happy ;
she had tried so hard to be happy. Her
aunt had told her to be ladylike ; her husband
had told her to be good ; her own
heart told her always to be happy. And it
told her so still. Still she longed and
hungered and struggled ; and still the
phantom of happiness eluded and escaped
her. She said, " Give me this one thing
more, and I shall be happy." She got the
one coveted thing, and found that the
old longing and unrest clung to her yet.
Sometimes it made her hard, selfish, and
inconsiderate, as she knew she had been
to-day. She hated herself, and yet craved,
all the same, for the thing which seemed
as though it might possibly bring her
happiness. Good and evil are most subtly
mixed up in us ; the wheat and the tares
flourish only too well close side by side.
Elizabeth was generous and selfish, cruel
and tender-hearted, all at the same time.
She needed many a lesson yet from the

hard and steady teacher  Experience ;
whose teaching, though slow, is so absolutely
and awfully conclusive at last.

The dinner-bell rang while she was still
crying her heart out in the dying sunshine,
with her sweet face pressed down on the
window-seat A minute or two later
Martha knocked at the door. Elizabeth
jumped up hastily, and stood with her
back to the light, so as, if possible, to hide
the signs of her late agitation from that
Worthy woman's eyes. She felt that it
would be impossible to go downstairs and
talk good little commonplace talk to her
aunt over her dinner for Martha and propriety's
sake ; so she sent word that she
had a bad headache, and wanted to be
quiet. And Mrs. Mainwaring  who, from
pure habit, would have sat down to dinner
at seven o'clock if all the world had been
coming to an end at half-past eight,  found
herself obliged to take her evening meal
in melancholy silence and solitude.

Poets and lovers, and other persons of
an excitable habit of mind, have a pretty
fiction that Nature laughs over their joys,
and weeps with them in all their griefs :
but, to a calm observer, this seems to be
rather an optimist view of the matter.
The two women, who, in that pleasant,
quiet, old Rectory-house, should have stood
to each other in the gentle and beautiful
relation of mother and daughter, lay awake
far into the summer night, each in her
own chamber alone :  Elizabeth, with passionate
tears, asking why the husband who
might have guided, trained, and saved her
was taken from her side so soon :  and
Mrs. Mainwaring, with the cruel, dry-eyed
sorrow of age, asking bitterly, as she had
asked many times these thirty years, why
God had seen fit to deny her the sacred
joys of motherhood, for which she had so
ardently prayed and yearned. Yet the
night was serene and cloudless. The stars
shone peacefully out of the deep, purple,

summer sky. The pastures spread fresh
and sweet under the soft breeze. And in
the morning the sun arose, rejoicing like a
giant to run his course. The night was
as solemnly glad and the morning as
radiantly gay, as though no poor human
hearts were torn with painful struggle and
contending, and burdened with the deadly
weight of love grown cold.

CHAPTER VII.

Nurse no extravagant hope."

The week during which the Rector was
away was a very wretched one at Clay-brooke.
Mrs. Mainwaring wrapped herself
in a garment of cold and rigid civility 
fortunately for her there were no more
thunder-storms;  and Elizabeth, alternately
wrathful and penitent, spent a
good many hours in her own room writing
letters to Mr. Pimbury and tearing them
up again.

She was compelled to answer Mrs.
Frank Lorimer's letter without delay,
so she wrote a short and rather irritable
note, saying that Normandy was out of
the question for her at present ; holding
out vague hopes of a meeting in London

VOL. L M

in the autumn ; and bestowing so few
words on the babies and their ailments,
that her sister-in-law, who always had a
lively inclination to read between the lines,
immediately arrived at the conclusion
that " the old Mainwarings "  as she
irreverently called them in familiar conversation
with her husband  " must have
been perfectly odious ; and that Elizabeth
must have suffered such a martyrdom at
their hands, that she had no sympathy
left, poor dear, to expend on anybody but
herself."

People are strong, one sometimes fears,
in proportion to their limitations. Mrs.
Mainwaring, in virtue of her limited
imagination, had a remarkable power of
maintaining a fixed attitude of mind and
of manner. Elizabeth's feelings, on the
contrary, fluctuated a good deal. More
than once, a word from her aunt would even
now have opened the flood-gates of repentance,
and she would have humbled herself

and asked pardon : but Mrs. Mainwaring
remained hopelessly the same. Every
look and every word implied, delicately but
surely, that she was outraged, astonished,
greatly pained, utterly shocked ; that she
was well aware that she and Elizabeth
were aunt and niece, and owed each other
a certain consideration from that fact :
but everything stopped there.  Mr. Main-waring
was coming home in a few days,
he must speak the final word ; meanwhile,
she would stand by her colours, support
the position she had taken up, and maintain
a dignified and suggestive silence.

There is nothing more irritating than
being in disgrace. A very few days of
this state of things were enough to exhaust
all Elizabeth's latent tenderness
and harden her in rebellion ; and two
days before Mr. Mainwaring's return
she wrote definitely to the lawyer, to
inform him that she should take up
her residence in London in September,

and to request him, therefore, to take no
further steps regarding the letting of her
house.

Conversation under these unfortunate
conditions was difficult ; and the two
ladies found time hang so heavily on their
hands that they welcomed warmly any
little incident which broke in upon the
monotonous round of half-silent breakfasts,
luncheons, teas, and dinners. Mr. Leeper,.
the Vicar of Lowcote, who has already
been mentioned in these pages, was not
an object of great admiration either to
Mrs. Mainwaring or to Elizabeth. It was
rather surprising to observe in what a remarkably
kindly spirit they both received
him at this juncture, when he came one
afternoon to pay a long-owed visit.

Mr. Leeper had given himself a day's
holiday. Time was precious, he measured
it out with a sparing hand  and having
done one social duty by taking luncheon
with the Harbages at Highthorne, he

thought it well, as the day must it seemed
be given over to trivialities, to walk on the
five miles from there and pay this visit
at Claybrooke Rectory. Mr. Harbage
had started to walk with him, but the
roads were dusty and the day extremely
warm. Mr. Harbage was a portly man,
of a soft lymphatic temperament,  moreover,
he had partaken generously of a hot
one-o'clock dinner, prepared with unusual
delicacy and plenty in honour of the
expected guest. By the time he reached
the outskirts of Highthorne Parish, Mr.
Harbage was aware that his courage was
oozing out at every pore. He began to
think it might be dangerous for a man, at
his time of life, to take a long walk so soon
after eating ; he had uncomfortable visions
of sunstroke and apoplexy. Mrs. Harbage,
who entertained hopes that her eldest
daughter's undeniable abilities as an
organist and district visitor might have
made some impression on Mr. Leeper's

mind, had suggested privately that this
walk would be an excellent opportunity
for finding out how far that gentleman's
heart was entangled by Louisa's useful 
if not romantic  qualifications for the
position of a clergyman's wife. But Mr.
Harbage was altogether too hot for delicate
diplomacy. He longed for his own study,
slippers, and an old and easy coat at this
moment, far more than for any matrimonial
advantages that might accrue to
his eldest daughter. Therefore, he suddenly
remembered that he had forgotten
something very important ; and bidding
with many protestations of regret  his
younger and more vigorous companion a
warm adieu, he turned homewards, walking
erect and fast, to carry out the idea of
urgent business, as long as there was any
chance of Mr. Leeper turning back and
seeing him. Then, after wiping his face
several times and leaning for a while
against a shady five-barred gate, he

trudged slowly homewards, to baffle his
wife's anxious inquiries, concerning his
conversation with their late guest, with as
much ingenuity and as few equivocations
as he might.

Mr. Leeper was a tall, thin, bilious-complexion
man, with a sparse black beard,
and a rather high forehead which had a
tendency to crumple itself up into irritable
lines. He was almost distressingly energetic,
and took real comfort in the thought
of his mental and physical activity, and
in the fact that he was a total abstainer.
He believed that he possessed the original
healthy mind in a healthy body. This
belief gave him a certain inclination to
sit upon his friends and acquaintances.
He felt convinced that if every one
would only take his advice and follow his
example, a sort of millennium of peace and
plenty would immediately set in.

Mr. Leeper belonged to that section of
English Churchmen which, not contented

with trying to rule the Church, has a strong
desire to rule the world as well. They
dominate the life of their parishes in the
most alarming way. Everything, from the
Eastward Position to the state of the
cottagers' pig-styes, seems to come within
their province. As a rule, they are not
greatly beloved. Poor Mr. Leeper was
really a very admirable, pure-minded, and
devoted man : but he made himself the
measure of the universe, and, unfortunately,
that measure seemed not to be entirely
correct somewhere. He had cast up all
social and religious problems according
to it, over and over again : but though he
felt sure he was right, the answer did not
work out in universal peace and goodwill,
as it so obviously ought to have done.

Mr. Leeper arrived, warm, energetic,
and argumentative, at Claybrooke Rectory
that afternoon, and was ushered into
the cool shaded drawing - room, where
Elizabeth Lorimer received him with

unusual kindness of demeanour. Mr.
Leeper rather prided himself on a stern
indifference to his surroundings, but it
was impossible for him not to be distinctly
aware of the contrast between the bare
dining-room at Highthorne, steaming with
early dinner, the ill-dressed angular Miss
Harbages, with their distressingly-anxious
mother, and the pleasant repose of this
stately old room, and quiet self-possession
of the graceful young widow. Mr.
Leeper tried to be practical, and tell himself
that fundamentally it was merely a
difference of so many hundreds, or perhaps
thousands, a year, and that the Harbages
ought not to be blamed or Mrs. Lorimer
admired for the difference : but, unfortunately,
when one's eyes are pleased it is a
little difficult to keep fundamental facts in
view. Mr. Leeper could not help being
rather gratified at his reception. He
had no great respect for Mr. Mainspring,
but he began, charitably, to think it

more than possible that this handsome
serious - looking young lady might be
considerably less darkened by prejudice,
or wilful ignorance of important social
and ecclesiastical questions, than her relations.


Elizabeth listened so graciously to his
conversation that a sudden thought flashed
into Mr. Leeper's mind. He knew that it
was a little unworthy of his stern, somewhat
ascetic, ideal of life, but still there
it was. How would it be to convert and
then take possession of this fair daughter
of the Philistines, and use all the Philistine
power and gold against the Philistines
themselves ? To use it for the furthering
of the temperance cause and of diocesan
conferences, the spread of sound Church
teaching and the just administration of the
poor law? The parish of Lowcote was
too small by any means to exhaust Mr.
Leeper's large stock of energy. This
audacious idea, which had started all

unbidden into his brain, seemed to him
a very attractive outlet for much of his
bottled-up force. As he sat talking to
Elizabeth, enjoying the cool atmosphere
and  though he would hardly have liked
to admit it  the sight of her sweet face,
this idea gave to his manner just that
touch of softness and respect in which
it was generally wanting. He waxed
eloquent concerning free and open sittings,
the miserable condition of the cottages of
some of the labouring poor at Lowcote,
and the sorrow and degradation consequent
on drink ; till Elizabeth, who had only
hailed his coming as a relief from her
sense of discomfort and ennui, began to
think him not only endurable, but really
rather interesting ; and Mrs. Mainwaring,
though she knew it was high treason to
agree with him, became willing to concede
that his " motives might be good, though,
poor young man, he was lamentably wrongheaded
on some points, and not at all the

sort of person she had always been
accustomed to."

Life seemed full of possibilities to Mr.
Leeper as he strode home that evening in
the gloaming. He left practical matters
alone for a while, and indulged himself
with building a series of pleasing castles
in the air. He saw himself on the highroad
to a general making of the crooked
straight, and of the rough places plain. He
was more than ever confident in the certain
arrival of a millennium, consequent on
the unconditional acceptance of his views
by the world at large.

But  alas ! for Mr. Leeper's visions of
future triumph  when he reached home,
he found an angry letter from Mr. Adnitt,
saying that his servants refused, in a body,
to attend Lowcote Church, unless orders
were distinctly given by the vicar that
strangers were not to be put into their pew.
While Mr. Doughty, the principal bass in
the choir  who, as he said himself, " had

sung there, man and boy, this twenty years
come next Easter"  was waiting in the
study to announce, with more directness
than urbanity, that " as Mr. Leeper
thought his-self such an uncommon good
musician and took people down so sharp
at the practices, he might sing bass for
his-self in future ; as he  Mr. Doughty
wasn't going to stand up there to bespoke
to before a lot of boys. He
should go to chapel next Sunday, where
folks knew when they'd got hold of a
tidy singer, and behaved according."

Mr. Leeper's forehead crumpled itself up
very much. His charming castles resolved
themselves into the fine air out of
which they were originally constructed.
He gave up thinking of the conquest of
the fair daughter of the Philistines for a
time, and plunged wearily back into the
actual.

But though vexation, and the sudden
reaction from his unusually exalted state

of feeling, caused him thus to put the idea
aside for a while, he did not relinquish it
altogether. He was sensible that there
was a new element in his life.

At last Mr. Mainwaring came home,
and the inmates of the Rectory were
awakened from the state of torpor and
discomfort in which they had existed
since the evening of the thunderstorm.
Nothing regarding Elizabeth's revolt was
said on the night of his return. Indeed
it would have been difficult to get time to
make any announcement. Mr. Mainspring
was not usually a great talker : but
he kept up the pretty old-fashioned habit
falling sadly into disuse in these hurrying
days  of telling his wife " all about
it " when he came home from any little
journey. What he had said, and what
everybody else had said ; what he had
done willingly, and what he had been
compelled to do unwillingly ; repairs,
gates, and fences ; this man's beasts, and

that man's sheep ; what local magnates
had called ; what sort of dinners the
bailiffs wife had prepared for him ; how
late the train was ; how long he took
going here and going there ; finally, how
glad he was to be at home again,  all
these matters were retailed with simple
cheery dignity as though highly important,
and received by Mrs. Mainwaring
with unwavering attention and appropriate
remarks. It was a very real relief to
both women to listen to this stream of
agitating talk after the silence and
constraint of the last week. It was comfortable
and reassuring to have the sound
of a man's footstep about the house again,
and to hear Mr. Mainwaring clear his
throat in that loud unmitigated way so
much affected by the English country
gentleman.

Elizabeth was rather excited, and almost
disposed to repent of her decided action
regarding the London house. She regretted

that she had not had an opportunity
of talking the matter fairly over
with her uncle ; now she feared he would
hear a very one-sided account of the business
from her aunt Having decided for
herself, she felt it would be out of place
for her to speak to him on the subject
first ; he must speak to her, and he could
only do so when Mrs. Mainwaring had
put him in possession of the facts from
her point of view.

Elizabeth had a large confidence in
Mr. Mainwaring's charity and comprehension;
she felt sure he would not judge
her harshly or narrowly ; still he would
be pained, he must be pained, at learning
her strongly expressed desire  and
it would lose none of its force in her
aunt's recital of it  to leave Claybrooke.
Most likely Mrs. Mainwaring would have
the whole matter out with her husband
next morning; to-night she was evidently
too happy at getting him back, and had

too much respect for the time-honoured
custom of " hearing all about it," to interrupt
the harmony of the occasion by
the introduction of jarring home matters.
To-morrow poor Elizabeth felt she would
be judged ; she almost prayed that the
verdict might be a merciful one. She
had taken the responsibility upon herself:
she intended to depart : but she earnestly
desired to depart in peace,  at least with
her Uncle Gerald.

VOL. I. N

CHAPTER VIII.

We fell out, my wife and I,

Oh ! we fell out, I know not why,
And kissed again with tears."

There had been a heavy shower of rain
in the night, and the morning was hot,
damp, and steamy, even on the high land
where the village stood. Down in the
valley, and along the winding course of
the brook, lay long lines of mist, which
the sun, veiled by a layer of thin gray
cloud, had not as yet sufficient power to
burn up. It was one of those very quiet
summer mornings when the damp earth
smells sweet ; and the cattle lie lazily
down in the rich growing grass ; and the
birds keep up such a lively search over
lawns and garden-beds for worms, that
they have hardly time to sing.

Mr. Mainwaring stood on the flight of
stone steps which led from the bow-window
of his study down into the garden. He
was smoking a comfortable after-breakfast
cigar, and looking over the day's paper,
which Bunton had just brought him,
Mr. Mainwaring was in a particularly
pleasant and serene attitude of mind. He
was conscious of having done a good
week's work, and of being glad to be at
home again. He felt a quiet satisfaction
at being surrounded with familiar objects,
and at being sure that there would be no
peculiarities in the cooking of his dinner ;
he thoroughly appreciated the order and
solid comfort of his own house after his
short absence from home.

Billy and Boxer, the two fox-terriers,
sat on the gravel walk just in front of
him, in a trembling agony of repressed
excitement ; prepared, if their master
showed the smallest disposition of quitting
his present occupation and going for a

stroll, first to spring into the air with
frantic joy, and then rush madly after him
and before him in any direction. Rufus,
the brown retriever, lay on the steps ina
state of absolute repose, occasionally
turning a meditative and contemptuous
eye upon the two anxious watchers below.
He possessed all the dignified calmness of
manner which belongs to an assured position
in the world ; while the fox-terriers
were victims to the ill-regulated vivacity
of youth, and to that excessive desire for
notice which belongs both to dogs and
men who are still on their promotion.

The blue smoke-wreaths from Mr. Main-waring's
cigar rose and floated out slowly
on the heavy air. He felt thoroughly
contented with himself, and at peace withall
mankind  not the most violent speech
of the most Radical member of the Government
would have had power to irritate
him greatly just then.

The inner door of the study opened

gently. Mr. Mainwaring looked round
with a smile ; he recognised at once the
quiet way in which his wife always opened
and shut a door  without noise and without
hurry.

Well, Susie," he said, still smiling, and
using, naturally enough in his present
complacent state of mind, the old pet-name
by which he had called her in
pleasant hours for so many years. " Well,
Susie, what do you want?"

Mrs. Mainwaring was just a trifle nervous
; she walked rather more rapidly
than usual across the room to the open
window, looking at her husband all the
while with a timid suggestion of apology
in her expression. She saw that he was
happy and contented. She came as the
bearer of evil tidings, and it grieved her.

I am so sorry to interrupt you, Gerald,"
she said, laying a small dainty hand upon
the arm of his rough shooting-coat : "but I
have been sadly disturbed and distressed

while you have been away. I had no
opportunity of talking to you last night,
but I'm afraid I must trouble you with it
this morning."

"Dear me!" said the Rector, looking
down at her, " what's the matter ? Has
Jones broken out in vestments all of a
sudden ?  or has there been a row with
Evans about the widows' outdoor relief?
That fellow Leeper's always making some
bother at the Board, and trying to make
Evans cut off a shilling here and a loaf
there. If there was any chance of that
man's having to go into the house himself
some day, he'd look at the matter from a
very much more merciful point of view, I
suspect."

Mr. Mainwaring took a long pull at his
cigar in rather a vindictive way, as if by
so doing he hoped, in some mysterious
manner, to reduce Mr. Leeper's income so
sensibly, that that obnoxious individual
might speedily find himself in imminent

danger of ending his days in the workhouse.


It has nothing to do with Evans,"
answered Mrs. Mainwaring. In truth she
found it very difficult, with her husband
standing there unsuspicious of any serious
trouble, to embark in her story.

"Johnson hasn't given warning, I hope?"
said Mr. Mainwaring. " I spoke to him
rather sharply, just before I went away,
about leaving the carriage-drive in such a
mess. He was surly, but I thought he'd
have got over it by the time I came back."

No ; Johnson is just as civil and respectful
as usual."

Mrs. Mainwaring sat down. There was
a favourite arm-chair of the Rector's drawn
into the window, and she felt that she
could talk better sitting down. Her heart
was beating fast, and it was a little trying
to stand up.

It is about Elizabeth, Gerald," she said,
that I want to speak to you."

"Elizabeth?"

The Rector took his cigar out of his
mouth, and let the newspaper drop to the
ground,  thereby causing Billy and Boxer
to jump at the wholly unwarrantable conclusion
that he was going for a walk, and
throwing them into a frightful state of
agitation.

Get down, dogs," he said, rather
roughly, and then added, " Why, my dear,
what in the world has Lizzie done?"

Elizabeth hasn't done anything yet,"
replied Mrs. Mainwaring. " But she proposes
doing something which I am sure,
Gerald, you will agree with me in thinking
most undesirable."

Indeed !" said Mr. Mainwaring, with a
touch of surprise.

Gerald Mainwaring loved his wife very
faithfully  too faithfully to stand aside
from and criticise her. He would not
permit himself to be clear-sighted regarding
her. The boyish devotion with

which, as a tall fine-looking lad, he had
wooed and won pretty Susan Belford, 
with her sweet pink and-white face and
little, clustering, auburn curls,  arose in him
even now and blinded him to her faults,
and weaknesses, and imperfections. Only
when she laid hands on Elizabeth, who
looked at him with the same clear gray
eyes and spoke to him in the same full-toned
voice, as the younger brother whom
he lost years ago and mourned so deeply
then, and then only, did Gerald Main-waring's
loyalty relax a little, and did he
allow himself to question, for a moment,
the entire wisdom of his wife's thought
and action.

Her husband's tone might have warned
Mrs. Mainwaring that he was not prepared
to be actively sympathetic : but the whole
bitterness of the scene with her niece and
of her own subsequent meditations, overwhelmed
her as soon as she had fairly
begun her narration. She went on with

MRS. LORIMER.

PART I.

an almost painful insistence, and with
very little perception of her listener's real
state of mind.

Elizabeth," she said, " is tired of Clay-brooke
already, Gerald. She told me so
violently, and without any regard for my
feelings. Her heart is set upon being a
great deal with poor Mr. Lorimer's relations,
of whom, I'm sure, you have just the
same opinion that I have myself  very
respectable people perhaps for their position
in life, but not at all the sort of companions
we should choose for Elizabeth."

Ah!" said the Rector. The thought of
the Frank Lorimerss was unpalatable to
him ; still he did not like to have Elizabeth
blamed.

She cannot be content with what we
have to offer her here," Mrs. Main waring
continued. "She told me very plainly that
our neighbours bored her to death. She is
full of all sorts of wild ideas about a larger
life, great interests, and I don't know what

besides, I should not have thought Elizabeth
capable of using such very strong
expressions as she did."

And when did all this happen ?" asked
Mr. Mainwaring. He wanted to get hold
of his facts before venturing into the slippery
region of opinions.

The day you went away. There was
a thunder-storm, as I wrote you word, when
I was driving back from Slowby. I arrived
at home very much agitated  you know
how I dislike thunder  and Elizabeth was
most loving and gentle to me"  Mrs.
Mainwaring paused. She had a painful
choking sensation in her throat, just for a
moment, but she mastered it and went on.
And then I most unfortunately asked
some questions about a letter from her
lawyer, and this terrible scene was the
result."

Well, and what does Elizabeth propose
to do?" inquired Mr, Mainwaring, still
anxious to possess himself of facts.

Why, she declares she will go up and
settle . in London alone. Fancy, alone,
Gerald, at her age !  a mere girl like her.
It is impossible  it would be absolutely
scandalous if we allowed her to."

"But where does she mean to live?"
asked the Rector.

In the house poor Mr. Lorimer left
her. Didn't I tell you the tenant gives it
up in September ? That was what her
lawyer wrote about."

"Oh!" said Mr. Mainwaring slowly.

He began to see daylight now, but he
wanted a few minutes to arrange his ideas
before he spoke. He was still standing
on the step just outside the open bow-window,
and he turned and looked out
over the lawn. Billy and Boxer had
gone off in despair, and were doing a
little independent rabbiting in the shrubbery
on the left. The Rector could see
their white bodies glancing in and out of
the underwood as they ran hither and

thither. He whistled to them once or
twice ; not because he in the least wanted
them, but merely because he wanted to
gain time.

Mrs. Mainwaring sat up stiffly in the
arm-chair. She had not produced the
effect she had intended to, and was feeling
a little piqued at her husband's apparent
indifference. Words did not come easily
to her, and she was afraid she had given
rather a lame account of the affair. She
had hoped for instant justification and
strong support  she did not despair of
getting it even now : but it seemed to
linger a good deal on the road, and meanwhile
she felt somewhat sore and injured.

At last Mr. Mainwaring turned round.
There was a strangely wistful look on his
face, which became his stern features wonderfully
well. It was a look that Mrs.
Mainwaring could remember long years
ago. She thought he had looked like
that sometimes when he used to say

good-bye to her, after one of those happy
days at Belford Hall, before they married.

He said quite quietly 

I'm afraid we must let the child go,
Susan."

"Gerald!" cried Mrs. Mainwaring,
amazed and outraged beyond words.

"We've no right to keep her," he went
on sadly, "just to please our own eyes
with her grace and beauty. You and I
are growing old, Susie, and this house is
dull for her. The young love the young,
you know  we did, and why shouldn't she?
Of course she wants to get away and be
with people of her own age."

Mr. Mainwaring looked out over the
lawn again towards the shrubbery, but
he did not see anything very clearly: there
was a mist before his eyes.

For a minute or two neither spoke ;
then Mrs. Mainwaring asked coldly 

But how is she to live alone?"

Oh ! I suppose she'll find servants as

Other people do. You'd better send Smart
or Martha with her to help her manage at
first."

This was just the last straw to poor
Mrs. Mainwaring. That Elizabeth should
go unpunished  nay, that she should be
supported in her rebellion  was surely bad
enough : but, as a climax, that she  Susan
Mainwaring  should be ordered to give
up one of her two favourite servants, to
prevent this young prodigal suffering in
any degree from the result of her own rash
actions, was intolerable and not to be
endured. As soon as she was sufficiently
recovered from the shock to be capable of
speaking at all, Mrs. Mainwaring said, in a
harsh deeply-displeased voice 

You surprise me, Gerald. I did not
expect this from you. It seems that I
and the comfort of our household  everything,
in fact, is to be sacrificed to Elizabeth's
headstrong whims and fancies."

I cannot see that we have any right

to prevent her going," he said again. " I
don't want to make you unhappy, or part
you and Lizzie, God knows, Susan, but
I can't see any other way out of this
business."

Oh ! that I only had a child of my
own !" cried Mrs. Mainwaring suddenly,
in her extreme distress. She pressed her
hands passionately together, and her face
grew pale and pinched with the excess of
her emotion.

Mr. Mainwaring drew himself up to his
full height, and an unpleasant straight line
cut itself deep into his forehead, between
his thick grieved eyebrows.

These two people very rarely mentioned
the real sorrow of their lives to each other :
but it was hardly ever absent from Mrs.
Mainwaring's mind, all the same. The
want, the disappointment, was always
present with her, terrible, urgent, importunate.
She tried to hide and conceal
it, and only in moments of very strong

feeling did she give voice to the sorrow
that she always felt.

Mr. Mainwaring had desired a child as
ardently as his wife. At this moment he
would have given his right hand to see a
tall handsome boy, who would call him
father, leap that sunk fence out of the
meadow and swing across the smooth lawn
to greet him. But men are much less impatient
of the inevitable than women. Mr.
Mainwaring had got accustomed to the fact
of having no child. It was, speaking paradoxically,
one of the very foundation stones
of his life, utterly immovable. Nothing
could alter the fact. He took it for granted ;
and it was only when his wife's bitter cry
rang in his ears, as it did just now, that he
realised clearly how great his loss was.

"The very tramp under the hedge has
children, and why not I?" cried Mrs.
Mainwaring again.

The Rector stepped inside the window :
he laid his hand quietly on her shoulder.

VOL. L O

My darling," he said, " if you had
had a child it might have caused you
infinitely deeper sorrow than any you
know now. Your heart is empty : but
it might have been tortured and broken
with agony of which, thank God, you know
nothing."

He waited a moment, and then added : 

We have each other, after all, Susie,
and the memory of long, peaceful years to
look back upon. And I hope  though we
might have done more for this place 
that still we have not lived here quite in
vain, and that we shall leave things just a
trifle better than we found them. Take
comfort, dear heart ; let the child go, and
trust for the best in the future."

Mrs. Mainwaring stood up. Her heart
melted within her.

Gerald," she said very quietly, and,
putting her arms round his neck, gave
him a long, sighing kiss.

The first kiss of the youth and the

maiden  he in the glory of his strength
and she in the glory of her beauty  is the
very blossom of life, the inspiration of the
poet, and makes the round world laugh
with joy. But the kiss of man and wife,
in the dusty afternoon of life, when the
transport and illusion of youth are dead,
after long years of disappointment, struggle,
and hope grown tired in the stress and
strain of daily living  the kiss of those
two, pausing for a moment and turning to
each other in faithful love, while the road
stretches out before them, pale and misty,
into the silence of the great unknown land
telling, as it does, of vanquished temptation
and patient endurance, may well fill
heaven itself and the clear-eyed passionless
angels with a solemn gladness.

Mrs. Mainwaring's soul received comfort.
She protested no longer ; she would utter
no complaint, though the most excellent
of her maids was taken from her. She
did not approve, but for love's dear sake

she submitted. She would let Elizabeth
Lorimer depart in peace.

When he was left alone, Mr. Mainwaring
took a turn or two up and down the study.
He had been deeply moved. For a
moment he had seemed to look into the
everlasting heart of things. It was a fine
sensation undoubtedly : but the air on
these extreme heights of feeling is too
highly rarefied for ordinary human lungs
to stand it long. The Rector felt he must
descend to lower ground again as soon
as possible, and walk in common, comfortable,
everyday paths. He shrank
modestly from the thought of his own
emotion, and wanted to get back to his
usual level without delay. There was
none of that unwholesome sentimentality
about him which treasures up and caresses
the remembrance of strong feeling, when
the feeling itself has passed away. He
went out on to the steps and drew a long
breath of the sweet summer air ; flung

away the stump of his cigar, and, picking
up the paper, tried to compose himself by
glancing over the foreign telegrams, the
weather forecast, and the state of the
markets.

By this time the morning was pretty far
advanced, and the sun had risen high,
overcoming the clouds which had obscured
it earlier, and burning up the mists which
lingered about the valley. It was evidently
going to be a roasting day.

The two terriers, tired with their excursion
into the shrubbery, were lying
panting on the gravel walk with their
red tongues lolling out of their mouths.
They were very hot, and yet they earnestly
desired some fresh excitement, having,
like most light-minded people, an unlimited
swallow for sensation of any kind. The
Rector was just settling down comfortably
to the news from Constantinople, and the
latest fight in the French Chamber, when a
little incident occurred which satisfied the

dogs' craving for diversion, and threatened
to force Mr. Mainwaring back into the
region of emotion from which he was just
successfully escaping.

Elizabeth had roamed aimlessly about
the house for some time after breakfast.
She fully expected a summons from her
aunt or uncle, and listened rather anxiously
for a call or for the ringing of the study
bell ; but the house was unusually quiet.
She could hear the maids moving about in
the upper rooms, and talking a little over
their work. The warm air was filled with
the drowsy hum of bees, which, attracted by
the plants and cut flowers in the sitting-rooms,
had wandered in through the wide
open windows, and were now becoming a
little worried and angry in their unsuccessful
efforts to get out again. Elizabeth
grew more and more nervous. It is horrible
to know that people are discussing
you and your conduct, especially when you
have a lurking suspicion that it is possible

to view both one and the other in a very
unpleasant light. Elizabeth found that
she could not fix her attention on anything
; her thoughts would keep wandering
away to the study, and to the little scene
which was probably being enacted there.
At last she picked up a book, and, taking
her parasol, made her way out into the
garden, hoping to attain there to that
philosophic calm of mind which was obviously
unattainable indoors.

She thought, after wandering about fora
little while, that she would go to the
Broad Walk, which at this time of day
would be pleasantly shaded ; and whereas
the wind was in the west, she would
benefit by all the breeze that might bestirring.
To reach this cool retreat she
had to cross the bottom of the lawn on to
which the study windows opened.

Billy and Boxer seeing Elizabeth in the
distance, as she walked slowly across the
lawn, and thinking that she presented an

excellent object on which to expend their
superfluous energies,  and thinking also
that she might possibly be coaxed into
taking them for a walk,  made a simultaneous
rush at her over the grass, and
leapt up on her with excited and foolish
delight.

Mr. Mainwaring, aware  even amid the
fiery assertions and denunciations of the
members of the French Chamber  that
something had moved near him, looked
up sharply, and, perceiving Elizabeth's
predicament, shouted to the dogs and
hurried across to her rescue.

He thought Elizabeth wonderfully
pretty, as with a flushed face, half vexed
and half laughing, she struggled with her
book, and parasol, and the two irrepressible
terriers, all at once.

I wish you would teach your dogs to
practise a little more self-control, Uncle
Gerald," she said, looking up at him,  quite
forgetting in the confusion of the moment

that Mr. Mainwaring had, in all probability,
just been hearing a very full and
particular account of her sins. " They
have almost torn me to pieces, and made
me so frightfully hot."

He did not answer, but applied himself
to reducing the two delinquents, by a
short and summary process, to a becoming
state of humility and obedience. Then
taking Elizabeth's book from her he
walked silently beside her to the Broad
Walk.

As she recovered from the flurry of
the last few moments all her nervousness
returned. Her uncle's silence made
her fear that he might have accepted
Mrs. Mainwaring's account of their difference
of opinion as literally true, and might
put the worst construction on her action.
She was afraid he thought her ungrateful
and inconsiderate, indifferent not only to
her relations' pleasure, but wanting  as
Mrs. Mainwaring had told her  in proper

respect to her husband's memory. If
Mr. Mainwaring did think these things,
then Elizabeth felt that she should be
deeply ashamed, that she should lose her
self-confidence, and be obliged to confess
that she had made a most contemptible
mistake.

Stung by a sharp sense of discomfort
and self distrust, Elizabeth stopped
suddenly and glanced at Mr. Mainwaring,
hoping to gather some information from
the expression of his face. Their eyes met.
Mr. Mainwaring looked at the beautiful
young woman earnestly and sadly, for a
moment, then he said 

"So you want to go away from us,
Lizzie?"

The tone of her uncle's voice affected
Elizabeth strongly : but she read in his
face that he did not wholly condemn her,
and immediately she desired to justify
herself. She dug the point of her parasol
rather nervously into the ground as she

spoke, but she answered clearly and
directly.

I have several good reasons for wishing
to go up to London this winter. I
believe that I owe a certain duty to
Robert's relations."

She paused a moment, and Mr. Main-waring
turned his head away. There was
something very painful to him in the
thought that this young creature was a
widow. It seemed so incongruous, so out
of the reasonable course of things. He
disliked to hear her make any direct
allusion to her husband.

I know Aunt Susan does not recognise
any duty to them on my part, but I
can't help that. I must judge for myself
in some matters."

Elizabeth drew herself up a little
proudly. She had regained her confidence
in the justice of her own cause.

Yes," said Mr. Mainwaring, speaking
slowly, " so I have been telling your aunt.

You want to see more of the world than
you can in a quiet, out-of-the-way, country
parsonage like this. It is quite natural. I
don't blame you. You are still very young,
and life is still full of promise to you.
Everything here is old, and has very little
promise in it  except the sure promise of
decay," he added, half to himself, smiling
rather sadly, and sticking out his under lip.

Elizabeth turned to him suddenly.

I don't want to leave you," she said,
with emphasis.

*' Ah ! but there's the rub, Lizzie,"
answered the Rector. " You see, unfortunately
in this world we can't take a
bit here and a bit there, just as we like.
With a little trouble we can generally get
the thing we want : but in the getting of
it we are pretty sure to lose something
else we care a good deal about too. It
isn't pleasant, my dear, but like a good
many other unpleasant things it's true."

Mr. Main waring spoke seriously, out of

the fulness of his own experience. Elizabeth
stood gazing away to the far blue
horizon, and wishing that Truth was of a
less harsh and angular nature. That the
law of all attainment should be sacrifice, 

in some form or other,  seems rather hard
at one-and-twenty.

So, my dear child," said Mr. Main-waring
more cheerfully, " see and know
all that you can. Live in the thick of the
stir and the turmoil. And then some day,
perhaps, when you have grown a little
sick and tired of it all  most people grow
sick and tired at last  you may be glad
to come back to poor, sleepy, old Clay-brooke
again."

Elizabeth might go, but she wanted
more than just leave to do that. She
wanted to feel sure that it was all right
between her and her uncle. She laid her
hand gently on his arm, and said simply,
as she might have done when she was
quite a little child 

But you're sure you are not very
angry with me, Uncle Gerald ?"

No, no," he answered quickly, looking
at her with keen, kindly, gray eyes. " I
have never been very angry with you in
all your life, have I, Lizzie ? Come now,
that matter's settled and done with.
We'll say no more about it, but go round
to the stables and have a look at the
horses."

CHAPTER IX.

remember, if you mean to please,

To press your point with modesty and ease."

It would not be true to say that the
energetic and active Vicar of Lowcote
had actually fallen in love with Elizabeth
Lorimer on the hot afternoon when, deserted
half way by worthy Mr. Harbage,
he called alone at Claybrooke Rectory.
Falling in love is altogether too poetical
and fanciful a term to apply justly to Mr.
Leeper's state of feeling. Yet when he
recovered from the irritation into which
his squire's letter, and Mr. Doughty's disposition
to join a schismatic and heretical
body, had thrown him, he began to think
almost oftener than he wished of Mrs.
Lorimer.

Of all things in the world, he loved
power. He would use power for the
best and highest ends, of course, but
still the enjoyment of the mere possession
of it was enormous to him. Ashe
prepared severe sermons in his bleak
uncomfortable study ; as he went about
his parish admonishing the backsliders,
and giving rather grim consolation to
the afflicted ; even in church on Sunday,
 Mr. Leeper could not help seeing
visions of all he might gain, of the extended
sphere of influence he might
possess, if  he really hardly liked to put
the thought into words  he could marry
Mrs. Lorimer ! How far her personal
charms influenced him, Mr. Leeper did
not care to ask himself He affected a
certain asceticism of thought, which made
him disinclined to admit that he was in anyway
moved by the fact that Mrs. Lorimer
was a singularly handsome woman. He
had never quite decided in his own mind

whether celibacy was not, after all, the
higher state. Certain expressions of St.
Paul's, bearing apparently on the subject,
troubled him a good deal ; not to mention
the very clearly expressed views of
many of the Fathers.

Mr. Leeper believed he was working fora
great Cause. He was a young man and
spelt the word with a capital letter, though
perhaps he would have found it a little
difficult to define exactly what he meant
by it. Any way, he was enthusiastically
devoted to the unknown quantity represented
by this word ; and  so strangely
do we, even the most earnest of us, deceive
and mystify ourselves  he was prepared
to persuade himself that there was a touch
of noble self-sacrifice in giving up the
honours of the celibate priest, if by
marrying he could advance the opinions
and reforms which he believed would be
so beneficial both to the Church and people
of England. Mr. Leeper must not be

VOL. I. P

accused of being mercenary. It would
not satisfy him merely to carry off the
fair daughter of the Philistines. She
must be converted too, and work as
earnestly for the Cause as he did himself
Mr. Leeper had often said rather
sharp things about the excellent ladies of
the clergy, and their undeniable power of
setting their husbands and their husbands'
parishioners by the ears. But Mr. Leeper
did his best to forget his own accusations
and statements now. Gradually he began
to see that there might be a good deal,
under certain circumstances, to be said
for a married clergy. He was rather
annoyed when he detected an inclination
in himself towards this modification of his
views : but still the thought of Mrs. Lorimer
haunted him, and after a week or two
he became very anxious to see her again.
Heretofore, however, his visits to Clay-brooke
Rectory had resembled those of
angels, at least in the particular of being

few, and far between ;" and he did not
see his way now to changing his custom
and calling there frequently for no ostensible
cause.

After the interview with her husband,
Mrs. Mainwaring had taken up a new
attitude with regard to Elizabeth's plans.
She did not pretend to think it desirable
that her niece should settle alone in London,
and become a recognised member
of the Frank Lorimerss' dangerous and
Bohemian set : but she exerted a severe
self-control, and managed to abstain from
any more open objections. She was supported
by a very sincere wish to please
Mr. Mainwaring, and by a comfortable
sense that, for his sake, she was nobly
enduring a mild form of martyrdom.
The sacrifice of her own opinions was
valuable, she felt, in proportion as it was
painful. She would deny Gerald nothing ;
but it would be unreasonable to expect
that she should forego a little secret

self-complacency when she remembered
how much she was giving up to please
him. Martha should go with Elizabeth
that, of course, was determined. It
was the very crown and glory of her
self-abnegation. And, when her niece
protested against thus depriving her of a
valued and trusted servant, Mrs. Main-waring
firmly intimated, " that there were
limits even to her powers of giving way :"
that Elizabeth, being left in all other
ways entire mistress of her own actions,
must, in this one particular, respect the
wishes of those who, " though they were
perhaps behind the world, were still not
entirely devoid of common sense." Metaphorically
speaking, Mrs. Mainwaring regarded
the worthy and excellent Martha
in the light of the proverbial "coals of
fire," and heaped her with much stern joy
upon Elizabeth's devoted head.

Mrs. Mainwaring indulged, too, in another
delicate form of revenge. She did

not conceal the fact that she was terribly
oppressed and worried by the thought
of having to engage a fresh housemaid.
She drew dismal pictures of dusty corners,
of broken china, and of quarrels for precedence
in the servants' hall. Smart, of
course, did her best to deepen her mistress's
melancholy. She had fought
deadly battles with Martha, many times,
during the years they had lived together :
but now, in the face of her approaching
departure. Smart saw her fellow-servant's
virtues in the highest relief, and foretold
ruin and disaster in the event of any
change.

About three weeks after the Rector's
return, Mrs. Mainwaring decided one day
to drive over to Lowcote and pour forth
all her domestic griefs to Mrs. Adnitt,
who had the reputation of being an admirable
housewife, and who might possibly
be able to recommend her some jewel of
a housemaid.

Elizabeth was in a very submissive state
of mind ; she tried to conciliate Mrs. Main-waring
in all small ways, after having
opposed her so vigorously in one large
one. Of course she was willing to go to
Lowcote, or anywhere else at that rate,
when her aunt asked her.

Mr. Leeper happened to be standing just
inside the doorway of one of the Lowcote
cottages as the Claybrooke carriage rolled
up the village street in a cloud of dust. He
was delivering himself of rather strong expressions
regarding the iniquity of parents
who did not send their children regularly
to school. His listener, a stout 
woman,  to whose mind the
advantages of a high standard of education
had never presented themselves very
forcibly  kept her eyes fixed on the open
door, with a provoking and stolid indifference
to her minister's fiery denunciations.
Though apparently her attention was wholly
absorbed in watching what was passing

outside, she was really prepared, at the very
first opportunity, to open a lively fire of
querulous objections and excuses upon her
unwelcome guest. Mr. Leeper heard the
carriage go by, and involuntarily looked
round. He caught sight of Elizabeth
Lorimer's face, and, ending his peroration
rather hastily, left the good wonaan with
her mouth open just ready to begin her
string of objections, and hurried up the
village street in the direction in which the
carriage had gone.

Lowcote House stands, like many of
our Midlandshire houses, in a hollow,
backed by woods. To the south the
gardens and lawns stretch towards a broad
piece of artificial water, where coots and
moor-hens swim busily about among the
green lily-pads and floating weeds. Beyond
are pastures with their herds of quiet
cattle ; and plough-lands covered, at the
time of which we are speaking, with
yellow standing corn. Beyond, again, are

line after line of blue hedgerows and
round-headed elm-trees, broken here and
there by the tall straight spire of a solitary
poplar, and fading at last into the faint
tender gray of the horizon  a common
type of midland landscape, but pleasant,
in sunny summer weather, with a suggestion
of prosperity and repose.

Life would be very dull in the country
unless we all prided ourselves a good deal
on our own possessions ; and indulged ina
wholesome contempt  not unmixed with
envy sometimes  for the possessions of
our neighbours. Mrs. Adnitt prided herself
on the beauty of her flowers, the
smoothness of her lawns, and on the wide
stretch of her view. When you called on her,
you were certain to be conveyed out into
the garden  let the grass be as damp as it
might  and were expected to fall into discreet
ecstasies concerning the said lawns,
flowers, and view. Mrs. Mainwaring and
Elizabeth, of course, suffered this fate.

Mrs. Adnitt established herself and
her guests in garden-chairs under a broad,
spreading cedar - tree, and then plunged
into the edifying question of housemaids.

Elizabeth tried to feel interested in
housemaids, but her domestic instincts
were not very strong, and the subject
palled upon her after a while. She tried
to amuse herself by watching the coots
darting about among the green lily leaves
on the pond : but there seemed no particular
object in all their hurried fussy
gyrations, and she felt a little provoked
with so much cheerful alacrity all about
nothing. In fact, Elizabeth was a good
deal bored ; and, for the second time
during their acquaintance, she was far from
displeased at the advent of Mr. Leeper,
when that gentleman's tall, angular, black
figure emerged from the house, and he
came across the turf to the little group
under the cedar-tree.

The two elder ladies were too much

engrossed in their conversation to have anytime
to bestow upon the new-comer ; it
followed therefore that after a very few
minutes Mr. Leeper found himself perfectly
free to devote his undivided attention to
Elizabeth Lorimer. He drew up a chair
almost in front of her, and prepared to
make the most of his unexpected opportunity.


Mr. Leeper was not naturally a diffident
person, especially when he had some end
which he wanted to gain in view. He
was not at all in the habit of feeling any
lack of self-confidence : but on this occasion
he did feel slightly embarrassed. The
garden-chair was low, and he was conscious
that it forced him into a rather
unbecoming position. He looked, in fact,
very much like a diagram of right angles.
It was Mr. Leeper's misfortune always to
suggest to one's mind a problem in Euclid
rather than any satisfactory type of human
beauty. He had been thinking so frequently

during the last few weeks about
the handsome, graceful young woman who
sat opposite to him, that he could not help
having a sort of nervous sense that she
must be somewhat aware of his thoughts
and plans concerning her. Then her
very beauty was disturbing. Mr. Leeper
began to fear that the world at large
might hardly recognise his entire disinterestedness
in sacrificing himself upon the
altar of Hymen for the sake of the
Cause. Still he did not swerve from
his purpose. In truth, the purpose seemed
to become more clear and distinct every
moment. The glories of his promised
millennium seemed to glow around him.
The triumph of wisdom  his own opinion
over folly  other people's opinions 
seemed beautifully sure and certain. But
first he must try to convince and convert
this charming woman. On the whole, he
could not help fancying that she seemed
a little glad to see him.

After a few preliminary observations
about the weather and the crops,  two
subjects which stand on the threshold of
conversation, and must be overcome before
an attempt upon more interesting themes
is possible,  Mr. Leeper began to discourse
ardently about those matters which
lay so near his heart. He was most
anxious to know how far his companion
was of his way of thinking ; how far there
was a hope of imbuing her with a real
enthusiasm for the Cause. He talked
well about the questions he cared for ; and
now, inspired by the determination to
impress and, if necessary, convert her, he
became almost eloquent.

At last, Mrs. Adnitt and Mrs. Main-waring,
having, after much confabulation,
pretty well exhausted the prolific
subject of housemaids, rose from their
chairs.

We are going to the conservatory,
Elizabeth," said Mrs. Mainwaring, turning

to her niece. " Are you not coming with
us?"

Elizabeth felt that the inquiry partook
somewhat of the nature of a command.
Her aunt evidently thought she had bestowed
quite sufficient attention upon Mr.
Leeper. But she was interested in the
conversation, and felt no disposition to
cut it short.

I'll follow you in a minute or two,
Aunt Susan," she answered, smiling at the
two ladies. " I know how lovely Mrs.
Adnitt's flowers always are."

Mrs. Mainwaring waited for a moment :
but Elizabeth sat still,  so absolutely refusing
to take her gentle hint that she
had nothing left but to turn away with
her hostess, leaving her niece and Mr.
Leeper deep in conversation.

I am very much interested in all you
have been saying," said Elizabeth, as soon
as they were alone. " I can quite imagine
that these subjects might become very

absorbing : but, for my own part, I am
afraid I am too selfish and indolent to
care very much about them."

She looked at Mr. Leeper as she spoke
rather fixedly ;  what a pity it was that
his forehead went into such hard lines,
and that his face had always a touch of
vexation in its expression !

"You do yourself an injustice, believe
me, Mrs. Lorimer," said he earnestly,
leaning forward with his hands on his
knees, and looking more rectangular than
ever. " You may have had disadvantages,
you may have had no opportunity of
studying these things : but if you once
understood their immense importance you
would, I am sure, take an active, practical
interest in them. Think what a noble
work,  assuring and consolidating the
position of the Church, helping forward
the cause of progress and morality among
the masses ! Ah," said Mr. Leeper, inspired
with the magnitude of his own

conceptions of future virtue and happiness,
these things are indeed worth giving
one's life for ! "

Perhaps," said Elizabeth slowly.

No, no, Mrs. Lorimer," he answered
quickly ; " it is no doubtful perhaps, it is
a very distinct and absolute certainty.
Remember," he added in a slightly professional
tone,  "a time must come, to
each one of us, when we shall hardly be
careful to ask ourselves whether our past
years have been easy and agreeable : but
rather whether they have been as useful
and admirable as it was possible for us to
make them. The remembrance of solid
work, of work accomplished and completed,
will form our only lasting satisfaction
in looking back."

There was something compelling in the
strength of Mr. Leeper's personal conviction.
It commanded Elizabeth's respect,
and yet she had a lingering feeling that
his ideal shut out much that is lovely, and

precious, and worthy to be made room for
in this world. Mr. Leeper's ideal seemed
to her rather bare and commonplace, and
wanting in poetry. There is nothing very
romantic in well-ventilated drains, or in a
substitution of lemonade for wine at dinner,
I am afraid :  and to certain natures even
the thought of Church Congresses is devoid
of any very keen dramatic interest. Mr.
Leeper's ideal seemed to her of a painfully
urgent, practical, business-like description.
It suggested the notion of getting
up so very early in the morning, and sitting
down to dinner in walking boots to save
time, and living in a condition of severe
indifference to the graceful and leisurely
side of things. Yet it was noble.

Elizabeth felt puzzled. She turned
away and let her eyes wander over the
quiet sunny landscape to the blue distance
of the horizon. Her face was serious 
almost sad, in its expression.

Mr. Leeper sat looking at her. He was

aware that he had made an impression.
And yet he found it very difficult to
keep his mind steady to the Cause, justin
this critical moment of possible success.
He wished to be hard and ascetic ; but
alas ! the pathetic beauty of this woman
was more powerful than he had calculated
for. Mr. Leeper would have rather liked
to scourge himself, yet he could not help
gazing still at Elizabeth.

At last she turned to him again, and
said : 

But I have known people work, and
strive, and wear themselves out for these
things, and yet, in the end, the result of all
their labour seemed remarkably small, a
mere drop in the ocean. They sacrificed
themselves, and really it seemed, on the
whole, to make no great difference."

Ah," answered Mr. Leeper, " we must
give the progressive movement time. Intime
everybody must come round to our
point of view."

VOL. I. Q

He drew himself up and summoned all
his enthusiasm to his rescue.

In time," he said, " every one must
acknowledge the advantage of strongly-restrictive
measures regarding the liquor
traffic ; of a more thorough system of
Church organisation ; and of greater unity
of purpose among the clergy themselves,
to be arrived at by frequent meetings 
diocesan synods, and so on. The country
is not sufficiently educated in these ways
yet ; and there has been a lamentable
degree of supineness among the clergy
themselves till the last few years. Buta
better state of things is beginning.
There is a growing spirit of devotion and
earnestness among us, and I sincerely
believe that the commonsense of the
majority of the lay-world is on our side.
I have no fear as to the ultimate success
of our cause if we can get workers enough.
The harvest is ripe, the call now is for the
labourers."

Mr. Leeper paused a moment. Then
he leant forward towards his fair companion,
and tried to throw a tone of
supplication and delicate appeal into his
voice and manner. Unfortunately Mr.
Leeper was always observed to be most
successful in denunciation ; his appeals
were liable to appear slightly forced, and
seldom produced a very satisfactory effect
upon his auditors.

We need the help of women, as well
as of men, Mrs. Lorimer," he said. " In
her most glorious and fruitful seasons the
Church has always claimed the labour of
her daughters, as well as that of her sons.
In her great harvest-field there is room 
nay, there is a distinct and absolute need
for the feminine as well as the masculine
virtues. She can use the humility, the
devotion, and that fondness for detail
which is common to your sex, as well
as the strenuous thought and persistent
vigour which is the prerogative of ours.

The priest is the authorised and recognised
leader : but he must be supported, his
work must be supplemented. In every
diocese, and, on a smaller scale, in every
parish, we want to establish a thoroughly
adequate and well-adjusted organisation,
in which man and woman, young and
mature,"  Mr. Leeper paused a moment,
and then went on with a little rush,
" married and single, will each and
all find their proper place and proper
sphere of usefulness.  Does not this appeal
to your mind, Mrs. Lorimer  Do
you not see what a grand opening there
is here for all kinds of talents,  while each
individual worker is upheld by the sympathy
and concurrence of the whole body ?
Singly we are powerless, united we may
successfully struggle with and subdue all
the evils of our day."

Elizabeth sat still gazing into the distance,
while the summer wind fanned her
cheek, and the rich resinous odour of the

cedars filled the warm air. Great ideas
were very attractive to her. For a moment
her own desires and disappointments
seemed very small and unimportant.
Would it not be better, she wondered, to
give up all idea of personal happiness, and
throw herself into this movement for the
good of the Church and of the people ?

The proverb says that one man's meat
is another man's poison. It is a slightly
confusing fact. Elizabeth had been somewhat
carried away by Mr. Leeper's address,
when suddenly it struck her how very
lightly her uncle would treat these schemes
of Church government ; how he would
probably call Mr. Leeper a wind-bag, and
his fine fancies so much impracticable and
pernicious rubbish. The thought of Mr.
Mainwaring's cheerful contempt caused
Elizabeth a certain revulsion of feeling.
She turned to Mr. Leeper  who, excited
and warm with his own eloquence, was
sitting bolt upright, with an expression on

his face in which triumph struggled with
anxiety.

But think now of Claybrooke," she
said. " My uncle, you know, cares very
little for all these views. He is quite
willing that things should go on in their old
quiet fashion. I don't suppose anything
would induce him to go to a Church Congress,
or preach a crusade against poor
old Davenport, who keeps the Red Horse ;
or to lead the very active life you have
suggested. Yet his parish is orderly and
well conducted, the people come to church
regularly, and, as far as I can make
out, we haven't half the squabbles and
disagreements there that there seem to be
in all the parishes round about. How do
you account for that ?"

Mr. Leeper had an unpleasant sensation,
 a little as though he had been going
downstairs, and had mistaken two steps for
one. This speech brought him up with a
nasty jar. He did not quite see how to

answer it, with an accurate regard both
for truth and for Mrs. Lorimer's feelings.
It was a regular woman's argument, he
thought impatiently  personal affection, as
usual, preventing a clear understanding of
the matter in hand. He had just been
making such a lot of room for the feminine
virtues, and now the chief of them, unreasoning
devotion, was getting sadly in
his way. It was very trying to be put
in such a situation. After a pause he
said, rather shortly 

Claybrooke is an exceptional case.
The feudal feeling there is very strong
still. I, personally, am too sincere a
Liberal to admire feudal feeling ; I think
it begets servility and want of true manliness
in the poor : but I cannot say that
it may not sometimes be used for good
ends. At Claybrooke this may be the
case."

He felt a little unhappy when he had
spoken ; a little afraid that he was softening

down the hard edges of truth for the
sake of a pretty woman ; a little afraid
that he had been called upon to make a
choice between Mrs. Lorimer and a clear
conscience, and that he had chosen the
former ; a little afraid that he was not
quite such a whole-hearted straightforward
man as when he had stood in the cottage
doorway, an hour before, scolding the
woman for not sending her children to
school. It is never pleasant to sink in
one's own estimation. To a man of Mr.
Leeper's order of mind, whose whole life's
work is grounded upon a strong belief in
his own infallibility, it is simply intolerable.
He felt compelled to set his conscience at
rest again. He turned to Elizabeth and
spoke eagerly, desiring earnestly to win
her to his opinions, and thereby justify, in
the end, his own momentary deflection
from the strict path of virtue.

I wish,"  he said, " I do wish most
truly, Mrs. Lorimer, that I could persuade

you to take a living interest in these
matters."

Elizabeth felt almost annoyed by the
insistence with which he spoke. Just
then a servant came across from the
house to announce that tea was ready
indoors. Elizabeth rose, and Mr. Leeper,
before turning to follow the messenger,
spoke again.

I wish it very much," he said. " Mrs.
Lorimer, will you let me lend you some
books and pamphlets which will put
before you  much more clearly and
forcibly than I can  the importance of
these questions ?"

I'm afraid I shouldn't have time to
read them now," she answered, wishing
that he would not make the matter such
a personal one.

Then later, in the autumn," he insisted,
" I will bring them over to Clay-brooke.
There is always plenty of time
for reading during the long evenings."

I shan't be here then," said Elizabeth.

They were walking across the lawn to
the house. Mr. Leeper stopped short and
asked quite sharply, with a decided touch
of his usual irritability 

Why, where are you going ? "

To London," she answered ; and added
slowly, " I don't quite know when I shall
come back."

She remembered Mr. Mainwaring's
words  she would only come back when
she had seen everything and grown tired
of everything. It seemed to Elizabeth,
standing opposite to Mr. Leeper, with
his vexed and anxious face, in the quiet
sunny light of the summer afternoon, that
it might be a very long time before that
came to pass.

Mr. Leeper drank Mrs. Adnitt's excellent
tea in silence, and devoured her
perfect bread and butter without a word.
He was intensely annoyed. All his plans
seemed to be broken off short. His

millennium had been coming on so nicely,
and now everything seemed over. Mrs.
Lorimer was going away, and  Mr. Leeper
mentally had recourse to the scourge
again  he did not quite like to think how
very much he minded her going.

CHAPTER X.

*' Mais ou sont les neiges danton?"

There is always something not only-painful
but bewildering in going back
after a lapse of time to a house one has
known very intimately under other circumstances.
It is haunted by dead and
absent faces. And it is haunted, too, by
an importunate past-self, which dogs one's
footsteps, for ever crying reproachfully,
Why are you different ? why are you
no longer what you were ? Which is the
true and eternal, which is the false and
passing self?" The past and the present
struggle together, and it is difficult to
reconcile them. One has a necessity
upon one to justify the present to that
importunate past ; and yet, a wild yearning

at times to take the latter to one's
heart again, and bid the commonplace
present begone. To a sensitive and imaginative
nature this struggle becomes
absolutely terrible.

The first few days that Elizabeth spent
in London were very sad and weary and
confusing. The coldness of Mrs. Main-waring's
farewell to her had been painful :
but perhaps the kindness of the Rector's
farewell had been even more so. Clay-brooke,
after all, was a very peaceful
harbour of refuge. Now she felt that she
was faring forth on to the great ocean of
life, to sink or swim as she might, with
only her own courage and wit and persistence
to guide her. She had set sail 
like many another young soul  to search
for an unknown good, and the first few
days of the voyage were anything but
encouraging. Elizabeth felt that if she
had realised clearly beforehand how profoundly
the return to this house would

have affected her, she should certainly
have stayed quietly at the Rectory, swallowed
all her aunt's social nostrums, and
submitted without a murmur to any
amount of Midlandshire monotony. She
was too prone, at all times, to take a
mental review of her situation ; to ask
herself what she had accomplished so far,
and what she intended to accomplish in
the coming time ? In the loneliness and
silence of this familiar house, she became
a perfect prey to melancholy meditations.
Her thoughts centred upon herself and
her present position, till she was overcome
with morbid self-pity.

Outwardly everything was just as she
had left it little more than a year before,
when, in hurry and anxiety, she had packed
away the things she valued most, and
left the rooms swept and garnished for
the incoming tenant. It was all just the
same, only there were the traces of a
year's wear and tear upon it, a year's

freshness gone out of it. Elizabeth felt
that she and her furniture had suffered
the same fate. But alas ! how much
more tender human flesh and blood can
suffer, how much more of its youth and
freshness it can lose in a year's time than
these inanimate things can ! There is
something painful, and yet almost absurd,
in comparing notes with one's own chairs
and tables ; and in observing how far more
indifferent they are to the " ravages of
time," than one is oneself. A meditation
of this kind does not tend to an increase
of personal vanity.

London was very empty still, and the
Frank Lorimerss were still abroad, so that
there was no hope of any acquaintance
looking in upon Elizabeth whose advent
might relieve the tedium of her first week
or two at home. Mrs. Frank  who had
a remarkable power of deriving interest
and amusement from other people's affairs
felt immensely sorry at not being on

the spot to superintend her sister-in-law's
settling in London. She was worried
with the notion that Elizabeth would
spend more money than was necessary,
and longed to regulate all her domestic
concerns. Mrs. Frank Lorimer loved a
bargain  to do things in the very best
way at the very smallest cost, seemed to
her a perfect combination of duty and
pleasure. She always wanted her money's
worth. All her investments had been
good so far. She was thoroughly satisfied
with her husband, her children, her
house, her servants, her friends, and perhaps
 herself She was a little afraid
that Elizabeth was not altogether acute
regarding investments. She had a lurking
idea that people who were acute regarding
investments were rarely widows at one-and-twenty,
unless they had married for
money, and then, of course, the case was
materially altered. Mrs. Frank wished
very much that on this occasion she could

CH. X. A SKETCH IN BLACK & WHITE. 241

have been at hand to overlook Elizabeth's
affairs with advice, warning, and encouragement.
However, since that was impossible,
she wrote a much emphasised letter
offering her sister - in - law all the help
which the servants she had left at home
could give ; and dwelling, at some length,
on her own and her husband's satisfaction
at the thought that Elizabeth had successfully
effected her escape from Claybrooke,
and was really going to be their near
neighbour in town.

On the third morning after her arrival
poor Elizabeth came downstairs to breakfast
feeling extremely wretched. She had
found it impossible to sleep much. The
house seemed intolerably hot and stuffy
after the large rooms and passages of the
old Rectory. She was depressed by a sense
of loneliness. She had wished to be independent,
and her independence was already
terribly dreary. She asked herself what
she meant to do ;  was day after day to

VOL. I. R

pass in this melancholy, aimless way ?
Was she going to remain in this state of
torpor till the Frank Lorimerss came back,
and depend entirely on them for all future
interest and employment ? Elizabeth, as
she sat in the bare dining-room, with the
untasted breakfast on the table before her,
actually failed so in courage that she felt
disposed to own herself beaten, and go
back to Claybrooke again. But her pride
revolted against the idea. She put it from
her angrily.

Roused from her lethargy by her own
anger, seeing how desperate her situation
must be if she had even for a
moment contemplated such a step, she
summoned all her energy, and determined
to find some simple occupation which
should so engage her attention as not to
leave her time for any more brooding.
She must be busy all day, and not allow
herself a moment for thought, if she
meant to avoid the humiliation, and resist

the temptation, of a sudden return to the
Rectory. She could, at least, rearrange
this house which looked so sad and empty.
Perhaps when she had filled the rooms
with china, and books, and nick-nacks,
and all those innumerable odds and ends
which are to a house just what ribbons, and
frills, and laces, are to a woman's gown 
unnecessary in fact, and yet all important
for effect ;  perhaps when she had all these
little things about her, the rooms would
seem less silent and ghostly, and she would
be better able to shake off the load of loneliness
and sorrow which oppressed her.

Strengthened with this thought, elizabeth,
leaving her hardly-tasted breakfast,
called Martha and went upstairs to her
own room to examine the contents of
some cupboards, in which she had put
away her wedding-presents and other little
household gods. Martha, having dusted
china at Claybrooke herself, and scolded
under-housemaids for not dusting it properly,

for many years, and having, moreover,
a disposition, like many good servants,
to respect a mistress in proportion to the
quantity and value of her goods, went,
nothing loth, to assist at the unearthing of
these stores of reputed treasures.

Elizabeth, when she opened the first
cupboard, could not help feeling a childish
sense of pleasure. She took the pretty
things from their hiding-place  standing
on a chair so as to get at the top shelves 
and handed them down to Martha, who,
with various commendatory observations,
wiped them and put them ready to carry
downstairs. The windows of the bedroom
were open, and the room was full of
sunny light.

But Elizabeth had passed a sleepless
night, and had hardly eaten anything that
morning. Suddenly she felt herself turn
sick and faint. The sight of all these foolish
little bits of china, and wedding-gifts, became
intolerable to her. They reminded

her too strongly and vividly of the past.
Each thing had its history  trivial and
unimportant, and yet telling, with terrible
clearness, of hours and days dead for ever,
of change and loss, of unfulfilled hopes,
and of past tenderness  that might have
been little regarded at the moment  and
could never never be repaid now. Elizabeth
steadied herself with one hand on
the shelf of the cupboard : but a tiny
delicate cup she was holding in the other
slipped from her grasp and fell shattered
upon the floor.

"Oh! dear ma'am, it's broken !" cried
the worthy Martha in a lamentable voice.

Elizabeth stepped down from the chair,
and leaning her two hands for support
on the back of it, said 

I can't go on, Martha. It's dreadful."

It is a sad pity you dropped it, ma'am,"
answered Martha. " It's broke past mending
now. It's lucky it's not one of the
best, though ;  these blue ones, like the

set Mrs. Mainwaring is so precious of, in
the glass cupboard on the landing at
home,  it would have been a real pity if
you had broke one of them "

"Oh, it isn't that," said Elizabeth, hardly
knowing whether to laugh or to cry at the
contrast between her own sensations and
Martha's conception of them. " I don't
care about breaking the cup ;  it's the
whole thing. It is dreadful being here.
I wonder why I ever came."

"It is strange at first," answered Martha,
with a slight glimmering of the situation.
But it will seem more natural after a bit,
ma'am. Yes, it's broke past mending,"
she added to herself, as she stooped down
to collect the scattered fragments of the
poor little china cup.

Elizabeth stood still, leaning her hands
on the back of the chair, her eyes fixed
on the open window, and a far-away look
on her face. She could see the gray
houses on the other side of the street, 

which were mostly shut up still, with
closed blinds and shutters,  they looked
singularly dull and unresponsive in the
glare of the dusty morning sunshine. An
organ was droning the airs from the last
comic opera a little way off. Street cries,
in tones once fresh but now strained and
hoarse, rose now and again in pathetic
cadence from the street below ; while the
confused muffled roar of the great thoroughfare
leading down to Vauxhall Bridge
formed a dull heavy bass to the nearer
sounds. Elizabeth stood involuntarily
listening. Everything seemed to her very
sad, very trivial, very indifferent, very
terrible at that moment. Life was far too
vast and multitudinous and dark for her
to try to comprehend it all. She could
not understand why she was left alone
like this with no one to train and help
and guide her. The strain of the last few
days was telling upon her heavily. She
seemed to suffer a moral and spiritual

collapse, and to lose her hold upon all
realities. Past, present and future, were
alike an enigma to her.

Martha, rising from her stooping posture
with a slightly heated face, after collecting
the fragments of the broken cup, gazed at
her in alarm.

Dear, dear, how white and ill you do
look, ma'am !" she said hastily. "Shall I
fetch you some wine or something?  how I
wish Mrs. Smart was here to see to you ; I
never was a very good hand at nursing."

Oh ! I shall be all right in a minute,"
answered Elizabeth, sitting down wearily.
But I can't go on unpacking the china.
You must do it yourself, please, Martha.
I'm so tired. I'll go downstairs and be
quiet."

She got up after a few minutes, and
went down into the bare drawing-room :
but it was impossible in her present
frame of mind for Elizabeth to be quiet.
Being quiet, meant sinking back into the

state of morbid melancholy from which she
had tried so hard to rouse herself at breakfast
time. Being quiet, meant crying till
she was utterly tired out, and then in despair
deciding to own herself beaten, and
going back to Claybrooke. Things had
come to a crisis. Elizabeth felt she must
make up her mind once and for all.

The atmosphere of the room seemed to
stifle her; she went hastily and threw both
the sash-windows on to the balcony up as
high as they would go, letting the fresh air,
and all the confused stir and murmur of
the street, in with a rush. Then she
turned and walked up and down the two
rooms, trying hard to master her sense of
loneliness and indecision, and to regain
her determination and self-confidence.

There was a little charcoal sketch of
Robert Lorimer hanging in the back
drawing-room. Just a slight sketch, but
half finished ; yet, like so many mere
sketches, giving a much more living suggestion

of the original than a more finished
portrait. It had been done by one of
Frank Lorimer's innumerable artist friends
a few months before his brother's marriage.
In the hurry of her departure a year before
Elizabeth had left it behind hanging on
the wall ; and it was one of the first things
that had greeted her when she returned
to her own house. She had hardly dared
to look at it, hardly dared to go into the
room with it during the last three days.
She fancied there would be something
almost reproachful in the pictured face.

Now in her urgent walk Elizabeth
stopped suddenly opposite to the sketch.
She had arrived at a decision. She
would neither relent nor give way anymore
; she would cast her sorrow behind
her, and throw herself entirely upon the
future. Elizabeth hardly knew how much
she meant by this decision : but she had
a vague conviction  notwithstanding the
difficulties about Robert's relations  that

her duty to her aunt and uncle and her
duty to her husband were, in some strange
way, linked together;  that in renouncing
Claybrooke finally, she also repudiated
the tenderness which she owed to Robert
Lorimer's memory. She was going to try
to live a new life. She felt that she could
not have her husband a silent witness of
that attempt.

Elizabeth moved forward and took the
sketch down from its place on the wall ;
and while she looked earnestly at it hot
tears gathered in her eyes, blurring the outline,
and making it hazy and indistinct.

In a sudden paroxysm of feeling  half
penitent and half defiant  she raised the
picture to her lips and kissed it passionately
over and over again, crying 

Oh, my darling ! my darling ! why did
you die ? why did you leave me alone ? 

you who loved me " She paused, and

then added quietly  "Ah, indeed, why?"

Still the organ ran through the light

airs from the opera, and the street cries
sounded plaintive in the summer air, and
the murmur of the busy thoroughfare
came hoarse from the distance in through
the widely open windows.

Elizabeth kissed the picture once more,
very gently and reverently, as we kiss the
dead when we bid them good-bye forever
; then kneeling down before her
writing-table, she unlocked a little drawer,
and laid it away, face downwards, in the
narrow place. Rising, she locked the
drawer again.

That is done," she said softly.

She turned and walked thoughtfully to
the open window, and stood for some
minutes in the sunshine and fresh air.

There was something soothing and
comforting to her, after her burst of
lonely passion, in the life of the dusty
street. People moved by, on their business
or pleasure, looking satisfied and commonplace.
Life did not seem to be a

mystery and death an enigma to them.
They seemed to take it all for granted,
without being troubled by any strange
misgivings regarding themselves or anything
else. Elizabeth, looking at them,
felt herself growing quiet, growing conditioned
again. Right or wrong, she felt
strengthened and encouraged. She told
herself she had done well to venture
forth once more. The coming years
might hold sweet compensation for her
past sorrow. She would have courage.
Just now, in the prime of her youthful
beauty and enthusiasm, Elizabeth
demanded to live largely rather than
ideally. Self-renunciation seemed to her
less beautiful than self-development ; and
she turned, once more, towards the future
with an almost buoyant motion of hope.

When she moved away from the window,
there was a new, very resolute, look on her
handsome face.

She went out on to the stairs and

called Martha ; and when that worthy-woman
appeared in a lively state of agitation
 foreseeing fainting and disaster 
Elizabeth said to her in a clear voice, with
no traces of her late weakness, 

Bring down all that china, Martha,
please, and I'll arrange it ; and tell one of
the maids to have a hansom here at half-past
two. I shall want you to go outwith
me."

Then after a pause she added : 

I don't like the house as it is. I want
to go to a decorator's this afternoon and
make arrangements about its being done
up. Thanks," in answer to some inquiries
concerning her health, " I feel perfectly
well now."

During the remainder of September
and the first weeks of October, the
house was given over to painters and
paperers, notwithstanding the groans of
the servants. Elizabeth wanted something
to do, so she amused herself by gratifying

every passing fancy in the matter of
spindle - legged tables and chairs, rich
heavy curtains, soft-coloured Indian carpets,
inordinate mantel-shelf arrangements,
and those strange combinations of colour
which turn modern dwelling-houses into
dark abodes full of mysterious suggestions
of almost oppressive luxury. Fortunately
Elizabeth had a fairly good balance at
her banker's, for these transformations are
pretty costly affairs : but even so, it did
occur to her to wonder, once or twice, if she
was not spending a good deal of money.

When the work-people at last departed,
and Elizabeth surveyed her house, she
felt a little like a child with a new box
of toys. It really was all wonderfully harmonious
and charming. But it is dull to
play with a new box of toys all alone, and
she still felt lonely enough at times and
unhappy ; and still the picture of Robert
Lorimer lay, face downwards, in the writ-unstable
drawer.

CHAPTER XL

** . . . En effet, ce qu'il y a de plus difficile a apprendre,
c'est le genre de politesse qui n'est ni ceremonies ni
familier."

My dear Elizabeth, it is perfectly delightful
to see you again, and have you
settled so near us," exclaimed Mrs. Frank
Lorimer, coming, with a pleasant rustle of
many-flounced garments, into Elizabeth's
drawing-room one (foggy afternoon towards
the end of October.

Mrs. Frank took the stage admirably ;
her entrances and exits left nothing to be
desired. She always looked equally neat
and fresh ; always equally mistress of herself
and of the situation. Wherever she
was she appeared to become, quite naturally,
the centre of the system of things ;
everything revolved round her. She was

more highly finished, both in looks and
manner, than is usual with our countrywomen,
 who too often have a tendency
towards uncertainty of outline. I suppose
it may be reckoned as one of the many
unfortunate results of our misty, dingy
English climate, that Englishwomen are
apt to be slightly indistinct. They frequently
suggest the notion of persons
moving about in the twilight, who are
nervous lest they should be betrayed into
compromising mistakes by the semi-darkness
around them. There is something
agreeable, if a little startling, in meeting
with a woman like Mrs. Frank Lorimer,
in whose mind the brightest daylight
always reigns, and who moves through
life with admirable self-confidence, consequent
on the clearness of her mental
atmosphere.

She was a dainty little person, with a
creamy-white complexion, large blue eyes,
rather too light in colour, perhaps, 

VOL. I. S

and fair brown hair, arranged low on her
forehead in soft waves. Her features were
small and neat. Without having any
claims to remarkable beauty, she was exceedingly
pleasant to look at. There
were no mysteries, surprises, or sudden
illuminations about her ; having seen her
once, you had seen her always ; she did not
enchant you unexpectedly ; on the other
hand, she never disappointed you, but
always produced the same effect of comfortable
security and refined self-satisfaction.

On the whole, women liked Mrs. Frank
Lorimer more than men did. They found
her so capable and so supporting. A few
of her acquaintances certainly accused her
of taking up a little too much room and
having too great a disposition to insert
her pretty fingers into every pie : but then,
who shall escape calumny altogether ?

Mrs. Frank Lorimer was not only truly
glad to see Elizabeth again, but she had a
little bit of diplomacy on hand; and nothing

raised her spirits and gave such a
delicate zest to her intercourse with her
fellow-creatures as the consciousness that
it was necessary for her to manage them,
and do her best, gently and unobtrusively,
to get her own way with them.

That morning at breakfast Frank Lorimer,
to whose kindly and easy-going nature
anything in the shape of a scene was
utterly distasteful, had said to her, from
behind his morning paper : 

Fanny, you'll ask Elizabeth to dine
here tomorrow night."

Yes," she had answered somewhat
abstractedly. She was deeply engaged in
ministering to the wants of her eldest
child, a slim, curly headed, little girl of
about three, who sat perched upon a high
chair at the breakfast table ; and whose
behaviour, as soon as her hunger was
satisfied, had become decidedly more
cheerful than decorous.

"I think I'll ask Clement Bartlett or

Wharton to dinner too," continued Frank,
emerging from behind his paper again.

Why ?  My darling child, do remember
to hold your spoon with your right
hand.  The first time she comes, Frank, I
should really think Elizabeth would prefer
to be alone with us."

Frank Lorimer was feeling rather dismal
and rather irritable. The memories
of a very bad passage across the Channel,
the day before, still haunted him. He
was sensible that his play-time was over
for this year, and that nine months of
hard work stretched themselves out uninviting
before him. He was very fond
of Elizabeth, he admired her greatly : but
he shrank from the idea of a pathetic
interview with her, and desired to erect a
barricade of indifferent friends between
himself and any unnecessary displays of
emotion on her part.

Well, you see, really, Fanny," he
answered in slightly a depressed and

grumbling tone, " the meeting must be
rather painful any way. I haven't seen
Elizabeth since February, and of course
she'll feel coming here again. You can't
be sure of Elizabeth, you know ; and I
hate to see a woman upset, it's so very
unpleasant. I really think the meeting
would go off better if somebody else was
here too."

Nini, darling, a little more milk ?
Don't spill it  there. Yes, perhaps it
would be best," said Mrs. Frank meditatively.
" Only, Frank, if we must have
somebody, pray ask Mr. Wharton. Clement
Bartlett was never very intelligent,
and he is too utterly tiresome now that he
has gone on to the stage. He talks the
most unlimited shop. Young gentlemen
always are a bore when they like their
professions ; they treat one to so much
unnecessary information about them. 
Oh ! my good child," she cried suddenly,
what an awful mess ! "

During the time that her mother had
been occupied in commenting on poor Mr.
Bartlett's shortcomings, Nini had indulged
in a Httle experiment in landscape-gardening
toy pouring half the contents of her
mug on to the table-cloth. A shallow
milky river, after meandering among the
plates and forks and spoons, was now
pouring cheerfully, in a miniature cascade,
off the edge of the table and on to the
little girl's white-pinafored lap.

Quick, a napkin, Frank," cried his
wife ; " her frock will be utterly ruined."

While Frank assisted to dam up the
river, and mop Nini's wet pinafore, he
continued his little grumble.

I'm sure Bartlett's a charming fellow,
Fanny. You never have appreciated him.
Women are so horribly prejudiced."

There, that'll do, Frank, you're doing
more harm than good now. I always
dislike anybody I'm always being told to
admire. It is only natural.  Now, Nini,

be careful and don't make any more
messes.  Very well, then, I'll ask Elizabeth
to come ; and Mr. Wharton is to
come too. Shall I tell her that ? Really,
I'm afraid," she said, looking across at
her husband, " it will seem rather odd.
What shall I say?"

But Frank Lorimer, having gained his
point, became quite ready to dismiss all
further consideration of the matter in a
light and airy manner.

Oh, anything you like," he said.
You're far more ingenious than I am.
Now, I must go.  Good-bye, you dirty
little dear," he added, as he stooped down
and kissed the little maiden in the high
chair.

It was in consequence of this conversation
that Mrs. Frank Lorimer arrived at
Elizabeth's house, that afternoon, with a
sense that she had a diplomatic mission to
accomplish. She had quite settled in her
own mind that, for everybody's comfort,

there had better be as little allusion to the
past as possible. She strongly objected
herself to sorrow, misfortune, or death,
and did her best to ignore their existence.
So she decided to meet her sister-in-law
in a cheerful and easy spirit.

It is perfectly charming to see you
again, and have you really settled near us,"
she said, as she kissed Elizabeth on both
cheeks, holding her hands, and smiling at
her in a composed and brilliant way.

Now, my dear, I've only come in
for five minutes. Yes, thanks, I will sit
down here by the fire and warm my feet ;
I am frightfully cold. There, that's nice.
You dear creature," she continued,
smiling at Elizabeth again, as soon as she
had established herself comfortably, " you
can't think how glad I am that you have
come. I really am thankful you made
up your mind to leave Claybrooke. You
must have been nearly bored to death.
How anybody ever manages to live in

the country all the year round I, for
my part, simply can't imagine.  Tea ? 
Yes, please, and plenty of sugar. Thanks,
dear.  What lovely hands you have,
Elizabeth I"

Elizabeth smiled too as she gave Mrs.
Frank her cup of tea.

The two women were sitting in front
of the fire, with a low tea-table between
them  Mrs. Frank warming her feet, encased
in a remarkably neat pair of French
boots, on the stone fender.

Elizabeth was inclined to accuse her
sister-in-law of being rather unsympathetic
; at the same time she could not
help being amused at her volubility. She
had been almost entirely alone for the
last six weeks, and felt somewhat out of
the habit of talking herself Conversation,
too, in the neighbourhood of Claybrooke
is wont to move forward with singular
deliberation  a sluggish, not a rapid
stream, flowing slowly round large islands

of silence, which seem to throw dense
heavy shadows across its lazy waters.
Mrs. Frank Lorimer's great determination
of words to the mouth struck Elizabeth
as really surprising, for the Claybrooke
influences were strongly upon her still.

We only got home last night," continued
Mrs. Frank, sipping her tea complacently,
" after such an indescribably
detestable passage. Nurses, babies, everybody,
even Frank himself reduced to a
state of limp misery, which  well, my dear,
I'll leave it to your imagination. However,
here we are, and we've had a lovely
summer. And actually I left the children
for a whole week, and went off to Paris
alone with Frank. It was delightful. I
thought I should have been miserable at
being away from the children, you know.
I ought certainly to have been entirely
miserable : but, in point of fact, I wasn't.
The maternal instinct went to sleep for a
week, which was a mercy. Frank wanted

to take me straight off to pictures and
churches and all manner of things : but I
retired to shop for some time first. I
simply can't walk about Paris in English
clothes. There's no real pleasure in life
if you know you've too many or too few
buttons on the back of your jacket. I'm
dreadfully weak-minded, I want a lot of
material support. If my clothes are not
all right my mind won't work a bit. Existence
becomes a nightmare.  Please, may
I have some more bread and butter ? 
Thanks. But, my dear Elizabeth," she said
suddenly, " how perfectly lovely you've
made this house ! It's absolutely charming.
I am consumed with envy. I shall
feel broken-hearted when I see my own
drawing-room again to-night  but, you
know, I never seem to have any money to
go in for this sort of thing."

Elizabeth could not help looking rather
expressively at her sister-in-law's gown.

Yes, I know," said Mrs. Frank ; " but

it really wasn't expensive. I always
bargain. Now just look," she added,
standing up and turning her back on
Elizabeth, " doesn't it fit divinely in the
waist ? And look at the hang of the
skirt. I'm French," she said, turning
round again suddenly, " from my bonnet
to my boots ; consequently I am utterly
happy, and defy the universe. Ah, you
dear, sweet, sober Elizabeth," she went on,
laughing and catching hold of Elizabeth's
hand  extended to save the tea-cup, which
during these little gymnastics of Mrs.
Frank's had been in imminent danger of
spilling its contents all over the carpet
and her gown, " you think me horribly
trivial, don't you ? Don't I bore you
dreadfully ? "

No; on the contrary," answered Elizabeth,
smiling, " I think you very clever ;
and you entertain me immensely."

Ah, I'm thankful for that," said Mrs.
Frank, subsiding into her chair again.

You must have been quite enough bored
in the country without being bored here as
well. Now do tell me," she added, bending
forward and looking rather hard at
Elizabeth with her large, innocent, blue
eyes, " weren't the Mainwarings tremendously
annoyed at your coming away ? "

My aunt objected to it," answered
Elizabeth, drawing herself up.

She did not quite like Fanny Lorimer's
tone ; and she felt that it would be impossible
to make her comprehend the
mixed feelings with which she regarded
her relations at Claybrooke. Fanny Lorimer
belonged to a different world : Elizabeth
knew that she could not understand
the Mainwarings. It seemed to be her
fate, poor Elizabeth thought, always to
defend absent relations from the sharp
criticism of present ones.

I fancy she does not regard us with at
all favourable eyes, does she ? " said Mrs.
Frank, looking brightly in Elizabeth's face.

She doesn't know you, Fanny ; and
she has strong "

Elizabeth paused.

Prejudices," said her sister - in - law.
Oh yes, I understand perfectly. She
detests us, and was very angry at your
coming, and wanted you to drop us altogether
; and you defied her in an heroic
way  charming, Elizabeth ! And your
uncle, you know, I want to know about
him ? Frank was immensely impressed
with him, and gave me quite an excited
account of his looks, and manner, and soon.
But I don't by any means fancy Mr.
Mainwaring returned all the admiration
Frank kindly bestowed on him. I think
I made that out."

I am very fond of my uncle," said
Elizabeth rather stiffly. " Perhaps I care
for him more than for any one else."

"Oh!" said Mrs. Frank, with a little
comprehensive nod.

She saw that she had touched on

dangerous ground ; but she was not easily
abashed.

Well now, you know, I came not only
to welcome you, you dear creature, and to
tell you how delighted I am that you've
come, but to ask you to dine with us tomorrow.
Frank's fearfully busy ; he is
longing to see you, but he has nothing but
his evenings just now. He thought, perhaps,
you would come and see him, as
there is a difficulty about his coming to
see you. Do dine with us tomorrow
night. We shall only be four."

Four ? " inquired Elizabeth.

Mrs. Frank shrugged her shoulders and
smiled.

"Ah," she said, looking up at her
hostess in a charmingly apologetic way,
"you must make up your mind to the
friends, Elizabeth ; they are quite inevitable.
Only Mr. Wharton is coming to
dinner tomorrow, at seven o'clock, 
did I tell you seven ? He really is very

pleasant and cultivated and musical. You
won't mind him, will you ? "

Elizabeth felt disappointed and vexed.
She had looked forward to seeing Frank
alone. It seemed to her strange that any
outsider should be permitted to intrude
upon them at their first meeting. Elizabeth
was certainly rather inconsistent.
She was too much disposed to ignore her
circumstances herself, but she remarked
any tendency to ignore them on the part
of others with considerable irritation. Our
faults are generally distasteful to us when
we see them committed by another person.

However, as she could not reasonably
object to meet Mr. Wharton, she answered,
after a minute's consideration 

Oh no, I shall not mind."

That's all right," said Mrs. Frank
Lorimer, getting up, settling down the
waist of her dress with both hands, and
then proceeding to button her gloves
leisurely.

"To tell you the truth, Elizabeth," she
continued slowly, without looking up,
*' Mr. Wharton is very desirous of seeing
you. He hoped so much to have met
you abroad with us. I wonder what
he will say about you. He has views
about everybody. I think he will say
you are very original. I think you are
.very original myself, certainly. But," she
added, turning towards Elizabeth, who was
still sitting by the tea-table, with a slightly
annoyed expression on her face, " do you
know, you give me rather an uncomfortable
impression, Elizabeth; you always
have done so. I always feel as if there
was a lot more behind ; as if you would
surprise us all very much some day,  go
into a convent, or do something else very
magnificent and slightly unpleasant."

Elizabeth got up hastily.

Don't be so foolish, Fanny," she said.
Sometimes she thought her sister-in-law
went a good deal too far, and was de-vol.

I. T

cicely wanting in delicate consideration
for other people's individuality.

Elizabeth had none of her companion's
easy self-assurance. Her pride and her
natural sensibility shrank equally from
such personal observations. The idea
of Mr. Wharton or any other unknown
young man venturing to give an opinion
about her, one way or the other, seemed
an intolerable impertinence to her. Elizabeth
was in a self-conscious and sensitive
state of mind, owing partly to her
loneliness and to the lingering influence
of the uncomfortable circumstances under
which she had left Claybrooke. It seemed
hard, too, that while one set of relations
accused her of being light-minded and
indifferent, the other set should represent
her as a sort of Hamlet in petticoats,
who might be expected to indulge in
all manner of strange vagaries.

Mrs. Frank Lorimer went on calmly
buttoning her gloves. There was a good

deal of intention in her talk as a rule,
though she often seemed to speak at
random. She generally contrived to say
just what she wanted to say ; and there
always was something that she did want
to say. When the last two buttons had
been successfully fastened, she turned a
perfectly amiable and innocent face upon
Elizabeth, and said 

Well, then, you come to us tomorrow.
That's delightful. Good-bye, my dear ; it
is most pleasant to have you here. And
your house is hopelessly  quite hopelessly
lovely. Your taste is admirable, Elizabeth.
Good-bye, again."

And she rustled off downstairs, seeming
to take rather a large share of the general
stock of vitality away with her  leaving
Elizabeth a trifle worried and exhausted,
with an unpleasant sense, too, that she
was only on the edge of things, while
Fanny Lorimer was in the very centre of
them.

CHAPTER XII.

' All free spirits, mutually permitting one another the
liberty of philosophising without any breach of friendship."


Perhaps there is no position in the world
so entirely pleasant, so free from care and
anxiety, as that of a young man of about
five-and-twenty, with some means, some
talents, and no wife and family ; who
lives in " rooms," cultivates his artistic
sympathies, and devotes himself exclusively
to himself, and to the friends whom
he delights to honour. The position
is absolutely ideal in its freedom and
serenity. No more serious misfortune
ever seems to befall the lucky creature
than a cold in the head, a romantic
quarrel with a dear friend, or a temporary
shortness of cash. Like the lilies of the

field, he is innocent of toiling and spinning,
and yet is clothed in a manner not
unworthy of a well-bred modern Solomon.
He partakes freely of the cream of life, 
he is petted, he is welcome everywhere, he
is exquisitely untroubled, and rejoices in an
entire absence of duty and responsibility.

What wonder if we, who are older, less
agile, whose clothes are selected for their
lasting rather than their fashionable qualities
; who are not unconscious of the collar
as we laboriously drag our well-filled family
coach after us ; who have, in fact, finished
up all our small portion of cream long
ago, and are confined to a pretty constant
diet of the skim-milk of life,  what wonder
if we, I say, contemplate these young
favourites of circumstance with considerable
feelings of envy ? Domestic joys,
the sacredness of home,  yes, we are quite
conscious of the magnitude of these blessings:
but I grieve to say there are moments
when we would exchange them willingly

almost with alacrity  for that slim

figure, bunch of Parma violets, well-cut
coat, air of gentle resignation, and enchanting
immunity from near relations !

Fred Wharton  towards whom Elizabeth
Lorimer had conceived somewhat of a
dislike, owing to the rather forcible manner
in which her sister-in-law had pressed him
upon her notice  belonged to the happy
order of beings that we have tried to
sketch above.

He was a very pleasant young gentleman,
with a remarkable capacity for
enjoying everything  himself included.
He was a charming companion, and,
though not actively or enthusiastically
zealous in the service of his fellow-creatures,
he had the delightful faculty, too often
wanting in greater souls  in saints, and
prophets, and reformers, and all those
other admirable people whom we admire
immensely at a distance, and canonise
with sincere veneration when they are

safely dead,  of never being in the way.
He was never urgent, and never attempted
to encroach on his neighbour's individuality.
He had constructed a pretty little
system of philosophy of his own ; and
instead, like most philosophers, of spending
all his time in compassing sea and land to
make a few unwilling proselytes, he was
satisfied with applying his system practically
to his own life. He was so entirely
convinced of the virtues and adequacy of
his philosophy, that he was quite content
to keep it to himself, not feeling that he
required the support of agreement on the
part of others to confirm his own faith
in it and give his system stability.

Wharton was by way of being an artist.
He had considerable talent ; but his powers
of application were not very highly developed.
He really preferred contemplating
his fellow creatures from a standpoint
of philosophic calm to any more
practical occupation ; and only worked

earnestly when some particularly attractive
subject presented itself to him, or when
the state of his exchequer warned him
that times of scarceness were not far off.

Wharton had a natural inclination to
like most people. He had many comrades
in many different grades of society. He
had a strong belief that it was a little
stupid to rest content with any one side
of society, however agreeable or cultivated.
He did not imagine that any one person,
or set of persons, could satisfy the whole of
his nature. So he selected many different
friends, each of whom satisfied some one
portion of it, believing that it is the highest
wisdom to live in as many lives as possible.

At the same time, the very power of
imagination, which enabled his friendships
to rest on such a wide social basis, made
some persons intolerable to him. There
was a certain unworldliness or obstinacy
call it which you will  about him which
often caused him to sacrifice some obvious

advantage to one of these unreasoning fits
of repulsion and dislike. Frank Lorimer,
who, out of regard for the necessities of a
wife and children, had come to temper all
personal feeling with a touch of worldly-wisdom,
often took his friend to task on
this point.

My dear fellow," he would say, " what
on earth can it matter whether you like
so-and-so or not ? He is ready to give
you fifteen or twenty guineas for a drawing
of his wife  you want the money  she is
a very pretty woman  and then they know
everybody. And, after all, the poor man
has really never done you any harm."

It's no good," Wharton would reply
hopelessly. " He rubs me the wrong way,
and no number of guineas is worth the
annoyance of having to know a person I
don't like."

In fact, Wharton's urbanity was not
quite universal yet. The consequence was
that he was regarded by some people as

rather an uncertain and fantastic young
man, sadly wanting in that delicate perception
of what might tend to his own
social advancement, which is in itself so
admirable, and so invariably commands
the sincere respect of others.

I suppose everybody's sense of humour
is more or less intermittent. Wharton's
sense of humour was certainly defective
where those whom he disliked were concerned.
Otherwise, as he stood and contemplated
things around him, he was
sensible of extracting an immense amount
of amusement from the show. Nothing
matters very much, after all. From a
secure position people have managed to
watch the progress of the bloodiest battles
with considerable composure. Sometimes,
for a moment, Wharton's cheerful indifference
left him, and the underlying tragedy
of life lay bare before him, confounding
and appalling his spirit. But, as a rule
he watched the strife serenely enough from

his own safe and comfortable station, regarding
even the painful incidents as so
much excellent dramatic material. He
was too busy noting every detail and each
delicate effect of light and shadow, to be
acutely distressed by the scene, however
pathetic. A very lively interest often presents
the same appearance to bystanders
as positive hardness of heart. Wharton's
heart was by no means hard, but he was
too much engaged in receiving vivid mental
impressions to have time for any great
display of personal feeling.

Living so much with the Frank Lori-mers
as he did, Wharton could not fail to
hear a good deal, from time to time, about
a person as nearly connected with them as
Elizabeth. Mrs. Frank was not in the habit
of cultivating the virtue of reticence, unless
she had some special private reason for so
doing ; consequently Wharton was pretty
well acquainted with Elizabeth's history.
It struck him as picturesque. And he

was by no means inclined to refuse Frank's
invitation to meet her at dinner two days
after the latter's return to London.

Indeed he accepted the invitation with
a distinct sense of satisfaction. There were
not very many people in town yet, and
Wharton had not very much either to door
to think about. It would be a pleasant
occupation to try little experiments upon
Mrs. Lorimer, and arrive at conclusions
regarding her. Wharton had done this
sort of thing frequently before, and it did
not strike him as a hazardous proceeding.
He took a purely artistic interest in
women, regarding them as an important
and rather agreeable element in the general
constitution of things ; in fact, as a sort of
dramatic necessity. But it must be owned
that the domestic side of life was rather
at a discount with him. Falling in love
would be horribly agitating, he thought ;
and marrying  the notion of spending the
whole of your natural life in the constant

companionship of one person  seemed indescribably
tedious. He looked forward,
therefore, to meeting Elizabeth much in
the same spirit as he would have looked
forward to the reading of a pleasant new
novel. The prospect was an interesting
one, but there was no touch of personal
feeling in the interest it excited.

After thinking the matter over, Elizabeth
had decided to lay all the blame of
Mr. Wharton's presence to Fanny Lorimer's
account. Fanny would be bored at
making one of three ; Frank would probably
have preferred seeing her quietly
alone, but Fanny no doubt had objected.
Elizabeth was very fond of Frank, and
managed generally to find excellent excuses
for his little shortcomings. When she
had recovered from her first feeling of
irritation, too, she really was not sure
whether it was not rather a relief to feel
that some stranger would be at her brother-in-law's,
whose presence would make all

intimate conversation impossible. Poor
Elizabeth had decided to harden her heart
against the past on the day that she laid
away her husband's picture. Sometimes,
fortunately for us, our nature is stronger
than our will. Elizabeth had determined
to do violence to her own best instincts :
but the instincts were by no means dead,
they stirred within her, and gave her a good
deal of trouble at times.

Mrs. Frank Lorimer's little dinners were
always charming. They were pretty, and
they were excellent too. Mrs. Frank herself
was always delightfully dressed, and she
had the faculty  which belongs to some
women  of keeping you continually aware,
not merely of what she said, but of herself
You never forgot that you were in the
company of a pretty young woman, whose
self was more important than either the
clothes she wore, or the words she said.

Elizabeth, who for so long had enjoyed
no more lively or inspiring society than a

sick-room or the somewhat bucolic neighbourhood
of Claybrooke afforded, found
herself expanding pleasantly in the intelligent
and genial atmosphere of the Frank
Lorimerss' house. It was enjoyable to be
with people of her own age, to feel that
she might say what she liked without any
fear of treading on forbidden ground. It
was refreshing to listen to her companions'
light gossip and easy criticism, to move in
their sunshiny atmosphere. She had an
uncomfortable sense now and then that
Wharton watched her rather keenly, and
tried to draw her out on one or two subjects.
He did both very gracefully. But
Elizabeth was inclined to resent any appearance
of interest on his part. She
connected him with certain feelings of
annoyance, and was disposed to find fault
with him on the slightest provocation.

After dinner, when the little party had
returned to the drawing-room, Wharton
and Fanny Lorimer  who were standing

together in front of the fire  had a pretty-sharp
skirmish over one of their mutual
acquaintances.

I simply can't understand why you all
admire Clement Bartlett so much, Mr.
Wharton," she said. " And I can't imagine
anybody less fitted for the stage. Just
think of his figure : he has such a remarkably
bad way of moving."

Why, my dear Mrs. Lorimer, his figure
is just his strong point. Everybody admits
that it will make him quite a reputation."

Indeed ! the public must be easily
pleased," she answered. " Now, can you
pretend to tell me that he won't be perfectly
appalling in tights ? or blessings ?
Just think of the severe simplicity of blessings
! He is pretty, I admit, but that's a
mere matter of colouring  he'll lose it
very soon. Then he looks so foolish !"

Poor Clement," said Wharton reflectively.
" Frank must be very fond of him."

Oh, I'm not the least prejudiced

against him," said Mrs. Frank quickly ; " I
am calm and unblessed. I let my imagination
play quite freely round the subject,
which we know is the sure sign of high
culture. It is you who are all prejudiced.
You are all," she added, waving her firm,
little, white hands comprehensively, " all
utterly infatuated ! That's my opinion."

It's no good," said Frank, who had
been standing near them, turning away
and sauntering across the room towards
Elizabeth, who was sitting on a broad
lounge at right angles to the fireplace.
"Fanny never will have the slightest mercy
on poor dear Clement, and he really is the
nicest, most innocent creature in the world."

Frank gathered up the tails of his evening
coat in either hand, and subsided comfortably
on to the seat by her side.

Elizabeth had been listening with some
amusement to the conversation. She was
leaning back lazily, with her shapely head
thrown up and resting against the dusky

VOL. I. U

red covering of the back of the lounge.
As Frank sat down she turned her face
towards him without otherwise shifting
her easy graceful position, and gave him
a quiet smile of welcome.

The evening had gone so brightly and
pleasantly thus far, that Frank Lorimer
had pretty well forgotten the feeling which
had prompted him to beg his wife to let
some outsider be present on this occasion.
As Elizabeth smiled at him, her youthful
beauty and the fact of her widowhood
struck Frank as strangely at variance.
He remembered her sweet face haggard
with long night-watches, and strange with
the dread of death and separation, during
the days of weary waiting that he had
spent with her only nine months ago.
Instinctively he lowered his voice, and fell
into a somewhat sentimental key, thereby
producing exactly the results that he had
taken such pains to provide against the
day before.

I am so glad you have come to London,
Elizabeth," he said gently. " I can't
help feeling that we have more right to
you than anybody else, in virtue of  for
Robert's sake, you know." He paused a
moment, and then added, " It would have
pained me very much if circumstances had
loosened the tie between us."

Elizabeth smiled rather faintly. She
too remembered those sad days and nights
nine months ago, and she struggled against
the remembrance. She did not answer ;
there was a pause.

I don't care about artistic dressing,
and I never shall," Fanny Lorimer was
saying, meanwhile, to Wharton. " Of
course it wouldn't do for me in the least,
and that no doubt does influence me a
little. But, candidly, I think people who
go in for it generally look fearfully dowdy,
except on great occasions when they are
tremendously got up. And then there is
a certain dressing-gown-and-slippers effect

about it all, you know, which doesn't in
the least please me. I really believe
people take to it just as much from laziness
as from a love of art  fewer buttons and
strings, you know. Then it makes them
intolerably conceited. They are always
possessed by a charming sense that they
are the elect, and feel wonderfully superior
to us, who still believe in Paris and high-heeled
shoes. The elect have always been
rather a nuisance, I fancy."

As Elizabeth did not respond to his
first little speech, Frank Lorimer felt
obliged to say something more.

This isn't the time for talking about it
all," he said, leaning towards her. " Some
things are very sacred to one, and one
fears to sully them by speaking of them at
the wrong moment."

"Yes, yes," said Elizabeth quickly.

Frank spoke low and earnestly ; not
only his words, but the tones of his voice
and his whole appearance reminded Elizabeth

vividly of her husband. The two
brothers had not really been very much
alike,  Frank being considerably the fairer
and more robust looking of the two.
But, seeing him now after a long interval,
Elizabeth was conscious of a resemblance
between him and Robert Lorimer so strong
and undeniable that for a few minutes she
was almost overcome by it. She had tried
very hard, during the last few weeks, to forget
the sad past and start afresh. Now,
as her brother-in-law leaned towards her
and looked earnestly at her, the past laid
cold strong hands on her again. For a
moment she seemed once more to see the
man who, as " a very true and perfect
knight," had loved and honoured her, who
had wholly and faithfully given her his
heart, to whom in life and death she knew
she had stood before all other women.
For a moment she had a sense of irremediable
loss and sorrow.

Fanny Lorimer and Wharton had found

some other subject on which to express
diametrically opposite opinions. Nothing
could be more inharmonious than the bright
room, their light war of words, and Elizabeth's
bitter feelings. She dared not give
way to her sudden anguish. She straightened
herself up and pressed her hands
hard together, not daring to look round
at Frank, who was waiting for some answer.
He, perceiving that she was agitated,
but quite unconscious of the extent to
which he was himself the cause of that
agitation, spoke again after a few minutes'
silence, wishing to soothe her.

I was a little afraid," he said, his
native honesty coming to the surface,
that you might have thought me forgetful
or unfeeling to-night. I can't talk much
about the things I feel most deeply  and
it's no use, after all, talking about them.
One must go on, not go back, you know.
Only I should be truly sorry to have
you think me indifferent. I'm not that.

Elizabeth. We understand each other,
don't we ? "

Elizabeth bent her head in assent.
Yet she feared they, did not understand
each other. Poor child, with her will and
desires dragging her one way, and her
nature and instincts dragging her another,
she had much ado to understand herself
sometimes.

Frank got up and gave himself a little
stretch. He had said his say, now he
wanted a tone of general cheerfulness toto
be restored as soon as possible. He
crossed to where Wharton was standing,
and laying his hand on his shoulder said 

Do go and play or sing to us, Fred.
You and Fanny have quarrelled quite
enough for one evening."

What shall I play ? " asked Wharton.

"Oh! anything you like, my dear fellow,"
replied the other, and went back to his
seat by Elizabeth.

It was observable that all Fred Wharton's

lightness of manner left him as soon
as he sat down at the piano. His face
hardened and sharpened, and his whole
figure seemed braced and invigorated, as
soon as his hands touched the keys. He
looked several years older, more positive,
and more serious. The change in him
was subtle, but it was quite distinct ; and
suggested possibilities of a depth of purpose
and of feeling for which one did not give
him credit at first sight. This change in
Wharton was always a pleasure and interest
to Frank Lorimer. He watched for
it quite eagerly, and half his enjoyment
in his friend's playing consisted in the
singular effect it produced on the performer
himself There was a fine suggestion
of power in the way in which Wharton
took possession of the instrument, and
forced it to yield up to him all the secrets
of its inmost being  all the joy and sorrow,
the beauty passing human speech, and the
wild passion we dare not utter even if we

could, which lie hid within it, and will only
answer forth to the compelling hand of the
master.

Wharton played a good deal of modern
music, full of questionings and pathetic
lamentations and harmonious despairs.

As Elizabeth listened to the music, it
seemed to speak out for her the sorrow
and confusion, the doubt, and hope, and
fear that struggled in her mind. There
was a certain relief in this, yet she felt it
was dangerously moving.

At length Wharton stopped, as if to
recover himself Frank Lorimer, who had
been leaning back lazily on the lounge, 
his legs crossed, his hands in his pockets,
and his eyes fixed meditatively on the toe
of his right shoe,  looked up quickly as
though to demand more. Mrs. Frank gave
a little rustle of relief She found much
of this sort of thing slightly exhausting.
Elizabeth was silent.

After a minute's pause, Wharton began

singing. His voice was not remarkable :
but his singing was excellent, the phrasing
good, and the sentiment perfectly refined.
He evidently knew so exactly what
he was about that one always had a pleasant
sense of security and repose in listening to
him. The song was slight enough,  of
the order of sentiment that happy young
people are given to enjoying, because they
have very little notion what it really implies ;
and that older and more experienced people
are somewhat disposed to fight shy of.
The words ran thus : 

My love lies low beneath the grass ;

The sad sea moans to earth and sky, 
The sweetest joys the soonest pass ;

Good-bye, dear heart, good-bye.

*' Her gentle eyes are closed in death ;

The wind blows low, the wind blows high, 
Our mortal life is but a breath ;

Good-bye, dear heart, good-bye.

Her lovely lips are pale and cold ;

When brown leaves fall, bare branches sigh, 
A merry tale too soon is told ;

Good-bye, dear heart, good-bye.

Vain is all glory, all delight,

Since man is only born to die.
Glad day lies slain by envious night ;

Good-bye, dear heart, good-bye."

Wharton sang with an air of strong
conviction, lending himself to the dreariness
of the words, till an atmosphere of hopeless
melancholy seemed to pervade the
tasteful cheerful room.

Frank Lorimer,  conscious that his wife,
looking extremely well and material, was
sitting opposite to him ; that his two
babies were sleeping peacefully in their
little white cribs upstairs ; and that he,
personally, was about as far away from
everlasting partings, falling leaves, moaning
seas and all the rest of it, as any man could
reasonably expect to be,  sat, smoothing
his fair beard with one hand, and
quietly enjoying this little excursion into
the kingdom of misery. But poor Elizabeth,
being already in a rather overwrought
state of mind, found the song altogether

too sad and too applicable. When the
last wailing " good-bye " had died into
silence, she was very nearly crying.

Wharton got up from the piano.

That is deliciously dismal, isn't it?" he
said, smiling, and relapsing into his ordinary
easy manner. " I can't bear encouraging
songs  they are horribly inartistic ; and
nice, heroic, drum-and-trumpet songs don't
suit my voice. So," he added, still smiling
and turning towards Elizabeth, " I take
remarkable delight in these lamentable
ditties."

Wharton was sorry he had spoken so
lightly when he looked at her. From the
purely artistic point of view it was delightful
to contemplate Elizabeth. Her long,
clinging black dress, her pale pathetic
face, the soft masses of her brown hair,
her gray eyes  wide-open  looking out
into space, her lips tremulous with
emotion, with the dusky red background
of the lounge  altogether she made a

charming picture, a sort of nineteenth
century edition of " our Lady of Sorrow."
Wharton was a little provoked with himself,
for he saw that his words jarred upon her,
and destroyed the effect of his song.

Elizabeth did not answer him ; she
turned away quickly to Frank Lorimer,
and said, in a rather unsteady voice 

I think rU go home, Frank. Would
you mind just walking back with me, as
it's so close by ?"

But, my dearest Elizabeth," cried Mrs.
Frank, breaking in with her usual emphasis
and vivacity, " it's so early ! Do remember
that you are no longer among the Clay-brooke
magnates, who no doubt regard
ten o'clock as a sacred hour, devoted, alike
by men and gods, to saying good-night
and going to bed. Remember that you
have returned to civilised life, and that
we are enlightened creatures, entirely indifferent
to times and seasons, and new
moons and fasts. Stay a little longer,

Elizabeth ; we shan't retire to our rest for
hours yet."

But Elizabeth felt that things had gone
too far. She was sensible that Wharton
was watching her, and she knew that she
could not recover complete serenity and
composure. She wanted to be alone and
quiet.

I think I'll go, Frank, please," she said
again, " if you don't mind."

There was a look of almost piteous
entreaty on her face which reminded him
strangely of the night they had parted in
the hall at Claybrooke.

All right," he said, " you're tired, and
we'll go. It isn't worth while to call a
cab, Fanny."

Well, if you must go, Elizabeth, goodnight,"
said Mrs. Frank. " Shall I see
you tomorrow? Will you be at home
in the afternoon ? Oh, well, never mind
now ; you do look fearfully tired, all of a
sudden. I can send nurse and the children

round in the morning to find out your
plans."

To Wharton, Elizabeth said no word
good or bad. They shook hands in silence.
She had an uncomfortable sense that his
views regarding her were developing, and
she felt somewhat defiantly towards him.
Vivisection can never be very pleasant to
the victim, however great be the scientific
truths that it may eventually elucidate.

CHAPTER XIII.

' Motives imply weakness, and the existence of evil and
temptation. The angelic nature would act from
impulse alone."

After Elizabeth and Frank Lorimer had
gone Mr. Wharton was guilty of a distinct
impertinence. He stood for fully five
minutes looking meditatively into the fire,
without speaking a word to his charming
hostess.

He had enjoyed himself: that is to
say, for some hours he had felt decidedly
interested. He admired Elizabeth Lorimer's
strong clear type of beauty and her
stately bearing. There was no tiresome
pink-and-white prettiness about her. He
saw that she was one of those women
in whom the mind and body are so intimately
connected and so dependent on

one another, that expression and manner
will instantly reveal the real feeling
within, even while the words spoken are
quiet and restrained. But Wharton had
to own that he had made a slight mistake,
and that the end of the evening had not
been wholly successful. He had a foolish
feeling of satisfaction, though, in the fact
that Elizabeth was walking home. " Our
Lady of Sorrow " going off in a four-wheeled
cab, or even in a hansom, would
really have been a little too trying and
inharmonious. He could picture her tall
black-clad figure and pale face, as she
moved through the dusky streets, coming
for a moment into the glare of a gas-lamp,
and then passing on into the semi-darkness
again. Frank was the dearest
fellow in the world, of course, but he did
seem rather to mar the picture somehow.
Frank was too comfortable in any way to
suggest romantic possibilities. Wharton
feared that he was probably grumbling a
VOL. I. X

little inwardly, at having to turn out into
the damp at that time of night, instead of
dwelling on the poetic suggestiveness of
the situation.

Fanny Lorimer was also meditating
upon Elizabeth, as she sat in a low chair
with a piece of softly-tinted crewel-work
in her hands. Her imagination was not
widely sympathetic, but her guesses were
generally pretty shrewd. She had to confess
that she did not really understand her
sister-in-law. She had often speculated
as to the exact amount, and as to the
quality of the affection with which Elizabeth
regarded Robert Lorimer. She was
disposed to think, though she had never
hinted such a thing to Frank, that for
some reason Elizabeth's love had never
been entirely whole-hearted. Had there
been another lover in the background ?
Or were the capacities of Elizabeth's
nature only partially developed ? She
could not tell. It occurred to her that

some day there might be a Httle denouement
It also occurred to her that it would
be very exciting to assist in bringing that
denouement about.

Just at this point of her meditations
Fanny Lorimer looked up at Fred
Wharton. He certainly irritated her
sometimes, he seemed so provokingly removed
from the ordinary cares and worries
of his fellow-creatures. His calm, contemplative
attitude of mind seemed to give
him a pull over her which she resented.
She would have enjoyed seeing him rather
distracted about something or other. It
is always refreshing to see composed people
in a fuss or at a slight disadvantage.
Fred Wharton had a restraining influence
upon her, too, which she felt to be annoying.
He often intimated gracefully that
she was talking in an exaggerated way.
She had a disagreeable conviction that he
took mental notes of everything she said ;
and her doubts as to the tenor of those

notes lent a certain sharpness to her tone
when she was with him which was not
natural to her at other times. As she
expressed it, " he made her feel draughty;"
and she was constantly disposed to bustle
up and defend herself from imaginary
attacks on his part.

Your sister-in-law is remarkably charming,"
said Wharton at last. " She gives
one the impression that there is a great
deal to know in her."

Elizabeth is not very easy to know,"
observed Mrs. Frank, putting up her eyebrows
and indulging in a rather provoking
little smile.

So I imagine," said Wharton composedly
; " and half her charm consists in
that. Most people present a flat surface
to you. You can look right across them
to the horizon at once. You know just
all about them after meeting them once
or twice. You know what views they are
bound to take on every given subject, just

as well as you know the colour of their
hair or eyes. But Mrs. Lorimer makes
me think of an unexplored country, full of
suggestions and great surprises. I only
saw the coast-line from the sea this evening
; but I am sure there are the most
delightful lakes and rivers and hills and
valleys inland."

Wharton smiled to himself.

I find it very enjoyable," he said.

Mrs. Frank Lorimer felt annoyed. This
was, she thought, rather too calm and cool
a manner of observing any woman.

Fred Wharton, standing there and smiling
complacently into the fire, seemed to
her a little wanting in solid comfortable
humanity. She resented his disposition
to regard his acquaintances merely as so
many interesting studies. At this moment
he was so occupied with his own thoughts,
so indifferent  a fact she noted as hardly
civil  to her presence, that Mrs. Frank
indulged herself with a good long stare at

him. She did not wish to think anything
complimentary about him. She
felt slightly angry with him, yet she could
not deny that any way he was very
good-looking.

He belonged to a type, common enough
in Northern Italy, but not often met with
among Englishmen ; and, when met with,
always implying some strain of foreign
blood in the ancestry. He was dark, with
eyes of the peculiarly clear warm brown
that an American writer has aptly described
as " wine-coloured." His forehead was low,
and his face perhaps was a little too broad
across the cheek-bones. The chin was
handsome, large, and well rounded ; but
the mouth was unfortunately English, and
not Italian  wanting in fulness and in
beauty of outline. Wharton's figure, though
by no means that of an athlete, was firm
and well-proportioned. Some people who
did not like him said that his forehead retreated,
and that he obviously could not be

endowed with much in the way of brains.
One irascible old gentleman indeed,  who
fancied that youth had lost all its graces
and virtues since he had himself ceased to
be young, and was disposed to indulge in
rather bitter philippics on the subject of
modern young men,"  had one day declared
that " Mr. Wharton had a head like
a tom-cat." But, if there was anything
feline about him, it must be granted that
he contrived to keep his claws most carefully
sheathed, while he showed a disposition
to purr amiably on almost every
occasion. At worst, he had some of the
acuteness and observing power of a cat,
while a charming suggestion of lighthearted
sisterhood still lingered about him.
It was just this boy-like freshness of feeling,
combined with a certain indifference, and
a pretty shrewd knowledge of the world,
that made Wharton so attractive to Frank
Lorimer and other men older than himself
Most women were a little piqued by his

want of personal feeling, for women rarely
care much for a man who suggests no
latent possibilities of developing into a
lover.

You seem to have made up your
mind," said Fanny Lorimer, after a time,
picking up her work and beginning to
draw her needle in and out of the stuff
with a great show of industry,  " you seem
to have made up your mind that you will
be permitted to explore this new country
as much as you like. Now really, between
ourselves, Mr. Wharton, I am a little doubtful
about that, you know. My sister-in-law
is not at all the sort of woman who would
enjoy being observed as an interesting study.
She is not at all given to confidences. To
my mind, she is rather inscrutable."

Ah ! there lies the charm," said Wharton
again. " There is nothing in the world
more interesting than the process of getting
to know some people. The difficulties
only help to keep up the excitement. One

begins by wishing a little, one ends by
wishing quite immensely really to know
them well."

"And when you do succeed at last in
knowing these remarkable people well,
what then ?" asked Mrs. Frank, looking up
with a charmingly innocent air of inquiry.

Oh, well," said Wharton, smiling, " then
I suppose you swear eternal friendship."

Or just drop them," added she, looking
down at her work again ; " and go off and
find somebody else to try experiments upon."

You are a little severe, Mrs. Lorimer,"
said Wharton.

Fanny Lorimer did not answer. For
once she felt she had scored off her adversary,
and she was willing to rest on her
success.

But now, just as a matter of theory,
you know," Wharton asked, after a minute
or two, " do you think it possible for a
man and woman really to make friends ? "

They generally end by making a good

deal more than friends or less than friends,"
she answered. " I never indulge in theories,
you know ; I judge by practice."

You think it can't be done, then' said
Wharton. " I'm sorry. It ought to be possible,
but I confess, for my own part, I
have never quite succeeded. People always
misunderstand one so. Now I have tried
several times to make friends with young
girls : but their admirable mothers always
appeared, like the head of Medusa, and
turned me to stone with a delicate but
appalling hint regarding my * intentions.'
I never had any intentions, you know. I
merely wanted to realise the sort of world
a young girl lives in.  Married women
are rather dangerous," he added slowly.

That's why you have never really made
friends with me, I suppose," said Fanny
Lorimer quickly.

No," answered Wharton, looking at
her gently and calmly ; " I have never
thought you dangerous, Mrs. Lorimer. You

are quite satisfied with Frank and your
children, you know."

Being a little afraid that this time her
adversary had scored off her, Fanny Lorimer
was silent.

I have had to fall back upon old
ladies," Wharton continued, returning to
the former subject of his discourse. " They
are very nice and kind, and pet me delightfully
: but there is a want of dramatic
interest about them. They live so much in
the past, and refer so constantly to excellent
and clever and witty people who died
long before I was born. It all seems over,
you know, and that is slightly depressing."

His companion shivered a little ; there
was something to her painfully tragic in
the idea of growing old, and of its all
being over.

Wharton moved across to Mrs. Frank,
and picked up some skeins of rebels
which had fallen off her lap on to the
floor. As he gave them to her he said 

It would be a very great pleasure tome
to know your sister-in-law better. Will
you help me to do so, Mrs. Lorimer?
Pray don't be so barbarous as to forbid
me to explore the new country."

Oh ! my wools  thanks," she said.
Then getting up and settling down the
waist of her dress, she added, " There's
Frank, I believe, coming in.  I don't
think it will matter very much, Mr. Wharton,
whether I forbid you or not. I observe
that you have a remarkable knack
of getting your own way."

Have I ?" he said ; " yes, well, perhaps
I have. That's because I am never really
very anxious about getting it, after all."

Exactly," said Mrs. Frank, looking him
full in the face. " I am not the least afraid
that you will ever die of a broken heart."

I sincerely trust not," he answered,
laughing. " Though really, Mrs. Lorimer,
when one comes to think of it, it might bea
very interesting experience."

CHAPTER XIV.

"Friendship maketh indeed a fair day in the affections
from storm and tempests, . it maketh daylight
in the understanding out of darkness and confusion
of thoughts."

Elizabeth had been nearly five months
in London. Not only the Frank Lorimerss,
but a number of other people whom she
knew had come back for the winter. An
unusually handsome woman, with a pretty
house and a pleasantly melancholy history,
is sure to have a good many friends and
admirers. Elizabeth refused to go out
much, but still she saw a good deal of
society. Five o'clock tea is such an
innocent meal, no one can reasonably
take exception to it. People would just
drop in ; and having dropped in once,
would drop in again. Mrs. Lorimer's

house, and face, and circumstances, began
to make her quite a reputation in a certain
set.

Yet it must be owned that poor Elizabeth
was not very happy. She felt the want of
a positive interest in life. Sometimes she
wondered whether she had not better throw
herself into good works of some sort ; visit
workhouses and hospitals, take up sanitary
reform, or become a devoted disciple of the
Charity Organisation Society. She subscribed
to various libraries, and read hosts
of new books. She tried to fancy that
strong sympathies for art,  music, painting,
and delightfully harmonious house-furnishing,
were enough to occupy her mind and
heart. Sometimes she thought with envy
of Mr. Leeper's enthusiasm for the Cause.
Sometimes with equal envy of Mrs. Main-waring's
contented enjoyment of her position
and family traditions. Sometimes
she envied Fanny Lorimer her children,
or Frank his newspaper work. Unfortunately,

Elizabeth had no one distinct talent
to which she could devote all her powers.
She was troubled with the unrest which
comes from appreciative sympathy with
and understanding of Art, without the
power of original production. At last
she began to regard herself as a sort of
superfluity. There seemed to be no special
place for her, no real necessity for her
existence. She grew depressed, and morbid,
and sad.

All this Mrs. Frank Lorimer could not
help noting. It made her really rather
uncomfortable, and she did not quite
know what to do. Resignation was not
Mrs. Frank's strong point. If things
seemed wrong, she instantly wanted to
set them right, according to her own
fashion. The consequence was that she
sometimes "rushed in," where angels, being
more patient and, I suppose, more sensible,
would have " feared to tread."

So far Fred Wharton's opportunities of

exploring the new country had not been
very fruitful. Fanny Lorimer said that
there would be difficulties, and her words
were proving themselves tiresomely true.
Wharton had to own himself that he hardly
knew more of Elizabeth Lorimer now, after
a good many meetings, than he had known
the first evening he saw her. He fancied
that she had been on her guard with him.
He had sung and played to her often, but
she had always remained perfectly composed.
" Our Lady of Sorrow," with the
misty gray eyes that gazed despairingly
out into space, had never appeared on the
scene again. Wharton knew that he had
seen farther into the depths of Elizabeth's
nature on that first evening than he had
ever seen since. Sometimes, he thought,
he would not try to make nearer acquaintance
with her. He was a little afraid that
she took up too much space in his mental
horizon. He was doubtful as to whether
he was not too much interested in this

study of character. Yet Wharton was so
bitten with the idea of proving that it is
possible for a man to make friends with a
woman, and so sure that Elizabeth Lorimer
was just the woman to try this rather
hazardous experiment with, that he could
not resist making one or two more attempts
before he finally decided to give
the matter up in despair.

One morning about this period when
Elizabeth was sitting in her pretty drawing-room
trying to read, and had wandered
away from the subject of her book into
rather sad meditations concerning her own
unnecessarily, she was interrupted by
the advent of Fanny Lorimer and Nini,
both looking fresh, and neat, and self-complacent.


I've come, my dear Elizabeth,"  began
Mrs. Frank.

But she stopped. Elizabeth was not
attending to her.

Come to me, darling," said Elizabeth,

VOL. I. Y

holding out her arms to the slim, dainty,
little girl ; and then picking her up, she
kissed Nini's round rosy cheeks, all cool
and sweet from the cold morning air.

Elizabeth made a charming picture, as
she stood balancing the child on one arm,
with her strong supple figure thrown
slightly back. There was a tender lookin
her gray eyes, and a sadness in the
curves of her beautiful lips, which were in
strong contrast to the merry, laughing,
baby face close to her own.

Fanny Lorimer stood watching her fora
moment.

You would make a lovely Madonna,
Elizabeth," she said. " Nini, poor dear,
has a most unsuitable suggestion of the
nineteenth century about her in that costume
; but you are exquisitely mediaeval."

Elizabeth set the child down on the
floor again, with a sigh.

There, Nini," she said ; " run along
and look on the little table in the corner.

between the bookcase and the window,
you'll find a new collier waiting for you
with a pink hat."

Then she turned rather wearily to Mrs.
Frank.

I beg your pardon, Fanny," she said,
what were you going to say ?"

"Oh!" she answered"! merely came
to you with a little message from Mr.
Wharton. I'm going to tea with him
the day after tomorrow, to see a sketch
he has been doing for Frank. He is so
anxious that you should come too.  Will
you?"

I don't care," said Elizabeth slowly,
while she watched Nini.

The child was very busy, critically examining
the doll ; and apparently, judging
by the expression of her face, was arriving
at satisfactory conclusions respecting her
new possession.

Mrs. Frank Lorimer opened her blue
eyes rather wide at Elizabeth's reply. She

stooped down and slowly rubbed a spot of
mud off one of the frills of her dress.

That is rather an extraordinary form
of answer to an invitation, isn't it?" she
observed mildly.

Oh, very well, then ! " said Elizabeth,
say I shall be quite delighted to go, 
it's not such a true answer as the other,
though."

But, on the whole, it's rather more
civil," said Mrs. Frank.

Is this collier for my very own ? "
interrupted Nini in her shrill clear little
voice.

Yes," replied Elizabeth : " but you
must come and pay me for it with a
sweet kiss."

She knelt down on the floor as she
spoke. Nini  who regarded kisses as a
necessary, but as by no means the pleasantness
part of the ritual of receiving gifts
ran up, administered a hasty salute.
Then, disengaging herself rapidly from

Elizabeth's encircling arms, turned to her
mother.

Look, look, mother," she said, " at my
collier's pink hat ! "

"You're a hard-hearted little being,
after all, Nini," said Elizabeth, getting up
from her knees. " I believe you care infinitely
more for that foolish collier, made
of china and sawdust, than you do for me."

I suppose we were all more or less
selfish as children," observed Mrs. Frank
apologetically.

A good many of us remain so when
we have ceased to be children," answered
Elizabeth rather harshly.

There was a hard line between her
dark eyebrows, and she stuck out her
under lip, just the least bit, as she stood
looking at the child and the doll. If
Fanny Lorimer had known Mr. Mainspring,
she would certainly have remarked a
very strong family likeness between him
and his niece, at this moment.

Selfishness is not a form of iniquity
we invariably leave behind us, in the
nursery with our old play-things, when we
grow up," added Elizabeth.

Is anything particular the matter with
you this morning ? " asked Mrs. Frank.

'' Nothing at all. I have said I am
delighted to accept Mr. Wharton's invitation
for the day after tomorrow. Pray
tell him so."

Mrs. Frank gave her shoulders a little
shrug.

You're very inscrutable," she said ;
however, you will come. Then if it's
fine, we can walk down to Chelsea b\'
the Embankment. I'll call for you about
three. Come along, Nini, and say goodbye
to kind Aunt Lizzie, who gives you
dollies and all manner of lovely things."

Good-bye ! " said Elizabeth gently,
but she did not kiss the child again.
Nini, it must be allowed, seemed supremely
indifferent to the omission, and

walked off with considerable dignity by
her mother's side, prattling cheerfully to
her new doll.

The afternoon of Fred Wharton's little
tea-party was clear and bright ; and the
two ladies set out with a certain sense
of enjoyment on their walk to Chelsea.
Elizabeth, with her country breeding, had
been accustomed to take plenty of physical
exercise ; lately she had been leading
rather a sedentary and lazy life, which
had by no means improved either her
health or spirits. As she paced along
by the riverside this afternoon, the keen
wind and the thin frosty sunshine seemed
to put new vigour into her.
She thought of the short winter days
down in Midlandshire years ago  not so
very many years though, after all  when,
the ground being too hard for hunting,
she and Mr. Mainwaring and young Edward
Dadley had driven over to Lowcote,
and skated till dusk.  Of the wild cries of

the frozen-out water-fowl, and the clear
ringing of the skates on the ice, and the
graceful motion of the skaters, and the
sound of a sudden laugh or call in the
still air  while the sun, a crimson ball,
sank down in the west, and the gray
country faded into the twilight, and the
near trees grew black and rigid against
the flaming evening sky. Ah ! those
sweet sad days that are no more. Poor
Elizabeth would gladly, for the moment
at least, have missed out all of her life
that lay between the present and that
pleasant time ; would gladly have found
herself skating over the gleaming ice, hand
in hand with her boy-lover once again.

For pity's sake, Elizabeth, don't walk
so fast," cried Fanny Lorimer breathlessly
; for instinctively Elizabeth had
quickened her pace as she thought of
Lowcote and the skaters.

Fanny Lorimer, like all city - bred
women, walked, not so much with the

intention of getting to a certain place
within a certain time, as with the intention
of seeing and being seen.

There is no such desperate necessity
for saving five minutes," she said ; " and of
all things in the world, that which I abhor
most, is arriving at anybody's house in a
breathless condition, with a face like a
peony."

You'll be frozen if you dawdle," said
Elizabeth shortly.

Yes ; but surely there is some reasonable
medium between doing that and
walking for a wager," answered the
other.

Elizabeth moderated her pace. She
was quite roused from her reverie. There
was nothing dreamy or sentimental about
Fanny Lorimer ; and she had a curious
power of compelling her companions to
move in her own clear everyday atmosphere.


Fred Wharton's rooms were on the first

floor of an old-fashioned house, looking
out on to the river. He had discovered
them when he first settled in London,
and had now thoroughly taken root in
them. He liked to wander about : but he
also liked to collect all manner of odds
and ends of all kinds ; and already his
material possessions were so numerous
that it was absolutely necessary for him
to have some place to leave them in. As
far as he had a home, this house in Chelsea
was his home. He went away for
months at a time : but always as a peaceful
and comfortable background to his
wanderings lay the long low old-fashioned
first-floor rooms, with their view across
the wide river.

Before ringing the bell when they
arrived, Mrs. Frank Lorimer paused, and
then turning to Elizabeth, said 

Will you go in ? I'll join you in ten
minutes. I've just remembered some tiresome
people that I ought to call upon,

close by here. I've owed them a visit for
months, and this is such an excellent
opportunity of paying it. I shan't belong."


I'll come too' said Elizabeth, who did
not care to present herself to their host
alone.

Oh no ! pray don't," answered Fanny
Lorimer quickly, and with rather unnecessary
emphasis. " They're fearfully
dull people ; you wouldn't like them a
bit, and there is no reason why you should
know them. Pray don't come ; I shall be
back directly."

To clinch the matter she rang the bell.
Nodding to Elizabeth and saying " au
revoir," she turned quickly into the street
again. So Elizabeth had nothing for it
but to go upstairs alone, feeling a good
deal annoyed. It would seem so odd, she
thought. She did not the least care to
be forced in this way into a tete-astute
with Mr. Wharton.

The room she was ushered into was a
large one, with three windows looking towards
the river. It was low, and was
furnished quaintly enough, yet with a
certain disregard for modern canons of
taste. But for a soft dusky richness in
the general effect of it, it might have been
called rather confused and untidy. Wharton
seemed to have taken pleasure in
collecting the most strangely miscellaneous
objects, and compelling them to form an
harmonious whole. Some of his friends
hinted, indeed, that his rooms looked very
much as if they belonged to the " property
man :" but he sternly refused to modify
any peculiarities. " I live in my rooms,
not you," he would say ; " I enjoy incongruities
and confusions  it is like life."

Elizabeth, on this occasion, was too
anxious to account for the fact of her
appearing all alone to bestow much
observation on her surroundings : but
before she had time to offer any explanation,

Wharton came forward to meet her
with a look of genuine pleasure.

How very good of you to come," he
said cordially. There was something so
sincere in the sound of his greeting that
Elizabeth's sense of embarrassment quickly
melted before it.

My sister-in-law will be here in a
minute or two," she said. " She deserted
me on your door-step, remembering suddenly
that she had a visit to pay close by.
She begged me to tell you that she would
follow me directly."

Wharton smiled. He felt a little indifferent
as to the length of Mrs. Frank
Lorimer's absence. Elizabeth looked very
young and attractive after her quick walk
in the frosty air. There was an unusual
colour in her cheeks, and her gray eyes shone
bright and dark under their long lashes.

Ah ! " said Wharton, " it is a long way
for Mrs. Frank Lorimer to come. I am
only too glad that she should make the

expedition useful to herself as well as
pleasant to me."

There was a moment's pause. Elizabeth
did not quite know what to say next, asher
companion's last observation called for
no rejoinder.

You have been doing a sketch for
Frank," she observed at last a little awkwardly.
"May I see it?"

Oh ! it's rather horrible now that it's
finished, Mrs. Lorimer," he answered. " I
thought it was going to be nice at first 
however, there it is on the easel in the
window, if you really care to see it."

Elizabeth moved across the room and
stood looking at the picture. It was a
graceful misty drawing of little Nini, worked
in charcoal. Wharton had begun it one
evening at the Frank Lorimerss', when the
child, tired with a game of play, had lain
half asleep on her mother's knee. The
subject caught his fancy and he had spent
some time in working it out.

"But it's lovely!" said Elizabeth.

I'm so glad you like it," the young
man answered. He was standing near
her, and watching her intently as she bent
forward to look closely at the drawing.

You draw as well as you play," she
said suddenly, turning round to him.
You are very fortunate."

She spoke seriously  not as praising
his talents, but rather, he thought, as
bidding him give thanks for the possession
of them.

Am I very fortunate ?" he said, smiling
again. " I am not quite sure."

"I think so," answered Elizabeth. "You
artists have troubles like the rest of us 
some, I suppose, that we more commonplace
people cannot fully comprehend :
but you have the intense joy and relief of
utterance. Ah!" she said, "I for one
keep all my pity for the poor dumb souls
who can only feel and cannot speak."

Elizabeth remembered the thoughts

which had so moved her as she walked
along by the river. She would have given
a good deal to possess the power of speaking
out the emotions they had caused her
in some artistic form.

The disappointment is generally more
present to my mind than the relief, I'm
afraid," said Wharton. " All one's work
falls so lamentably short of what one
wants to do."

Still you have something to do, something
to work for," she answered. " You
have the satisfaction of knowing what
you want, even if you can't always reach
it. So many of us waste our lives utterly,
because we never know exactly what to
aim at."

Oh !" said Wharton, shaking his head.
People are all so much too fond of doing
nowadays. Why can't they leave the
doing alone, and just be  isn't that
enough ? They hurry, and worry, and
scramble, and quite forget what a much

more dignified and graceful spectacle they
would present to the universe if they were
a trifle less busy and anxious."

Elizabeth sat down thoughtfully on a
chair in front of the easel. She paused a
moment before speaking.

But surely one must have a distinct
object in life," she said.

Must one ?" asked Wharton. " I have
never been able quite to see the necessity
for it."

Elizabeth looked up at him inquiringly.

Isn't it enough," he said, " to enjoy
oneself, to be pleasant and to please one's
friends ?"

"Perhaps  if you have friends," she
observed.

"Why, you must have plenty of
friends, any way, Mrs. Lorimer," said
he brightly.

If you mean just the people whom I
know, yes, I have plenty," answered Elizabeth.


VOL. I. z

She was too much absorbed in her own
train of thought to observe that the conversation
had assumed a new complexion,
and had drifted away from the general
into the personal.

But," she added, " I am afraid, like
most women, I know very little about
real friendship ; about the sort of friendship
which really makes part of one's life.
I should like to have friends as men have
them, but I don't know how to begin."

Elizabeth spoke quite simply, thinking
merely of her own feelings and not at all
of her companion.

A very bright light came into Fred
Wharton's brown eyes, and he bent forward
towards her as he answered 

I fancy I know a good deal about
what men call friendship  the friendship
which, as you say, makes a real part of
one's life. If you want to know about it
I think I could teach you."

Suddenly the singularity of her position

struck Elizabeth. She had quarrelled with
the narrow old-world conventionalities
down at Claybrooke  surely she was
getting far enough away from conventionality
now ! She turned her head and
gazed out across the murky river, running
so swiftly and silently in the gathering
darkness down to the sea. The sky was
very pale and clear above. Along the
roadways flickered the long lines of gas-lamps.
It looked cold, and hard, and cruel,
somehow, out there in the dusk. Then she
turned again and glanced round the warm
luxurious room, with its fanciful furniture
and rich mellow colouring. Finally, she
looked up at the dark handsome face of
the young man who stood waiting before
her.

She gave a long, shuddering sigh, as
of one waking from a troubled dream ;
and then said gently 

I think I should be very glad if you
would teach me."

There was an expression almost of
triumph about Wharton.

That is kind of you," he said simply.
Then he added, holding out his hand 
It is a compact, Mrs. Lorimer  you
must give me your hand on it."

Elizabeth laid her hand in his for a
moment rather unwillingly. She wondered
what she might be binding herself to. Did
it really mean anything, or was it merely
a pretty bit of child's play ?

Mrs. Frank Lorimer, returning from her
visit and coming into the room just at the
conclusion of this little ceremony, was
conscious of receiving a certain very vivid
impression. She paused only for an instant
of time in the doorway, before
Wharton, turning round, came forward to
welcome her : but in that instant her
innocent blue eyes had pretty thoroughly
taken in the situation.  Elizabeth was
sitting in front of the easel, sideways on a
quaintly-shaped chair, with her hands resting,

lightly clasped together, on the back
of it. She had unfastened her thick fur-trimmed
mantle at the neck, and it hung
in heavy folds from her shoulders, showing
part of the body of her black dress and
the white about her throat. The hair on
her forehead had been ruffled by the
wind during her walk, and curled up
about the edge of her bonnet, softening
the hard line of it. She was looking up,
with her lips parted as though about
to speak. The light from some candles
in brass sconces near the fireplace fell
full upon her face.

Wharton's back was towards Mrs. Frank.
She could not see how he was looking ;
but his attitude seemed expressive, she
thought, of more than mere polite toleration
of his fair companion.

Oh !" said Fanny Lorimer, as her host
came towards her, " my dear Mr. Wharton,
I owe you ten thousand apologies. I
had wanted to pay that visit for such ages

I was sure you would forgive my being
a little late  and then, to my utter distraction,
the wretched people were at home.
And can you tell why it is," she added,
that the less power people have of
entertaining you, the longer they are
determined that you shall stay with them?
Thanks ! yes, I will sit down. How
good of you to wait tea for me !  I have
known thoroughly uninteresting people,
who insisted upon asking one to dinner at
half-past six and requiring one to stay till
heaven knows what time of night, simply,
apparently, because they had nothing on
earth to say to one. Whereas delightful
people, whom you feel you would be happy
to spend years with, ask you at a quarter
past eight, and turn you out again at
eleven. Now why is it?"

I must think the question over before
I venture to give an answer," said Wharton,
smiling. " You, at all events, Mrs. Lorimer,
may claim to belong to the delightful section

of society, since you are so late in
arriving here to-day."

Fanny Lorimer laughed. She felt in
the most charmingly amiable humour.

While Wharton made tea she wandered
about the room, chattering all the time.
She inspected the sketch of Nini, with which
she declared herself absolutely enchanted,
and praised everything liberally, the tea
included.

How I wish you would do us a
picture of Elizabeth," she said at last.
Somebody really ought to do a picture
of her. She looked like the most delightful
mediaeval Madonna when she was
nursing Nini the other day."

The advantage of having a reputation
for talking very much, is that it gives you
admirable opportunities of saying a host of
things you want to say, without giving them
an appearance of undue prominence. Mrs.
Frank always managed to serve her own
little purposes : but she merged her important

sentences so cleverly in the general
flow of her conversation, that they seemed
at the time in no way particularly remarkable.


It was only when Elizabeth shook hands
with him, just as she was going away, that
Fred Wharton referred to Mrs. Frank's
suggestion.

"Will you let me make a drawing of
you ?" he said.

Is that one of your lessons in friendship
?" asked Elizabeth, smiling  " because
if so, I suppose I am bound to say yes."

CHAPTER I.

*' A mere spectator of other men's fortunes and adventures,
and how they act their parts, which methinks
are diversely presented unto me, as from a common
theatre or scene."

Some people, I fear, may not unjustly
complain of the commonplace characters
and trivial incidents which they are invited
to contemplate in this little tale ;
and which are hardly worth the ink and
paper  let alone the time  that has been
wasted upon them. But I would protest,
with all humility and sincerity, that I do
not lay claim to the title of poet or
artist, still less to that of moralist or
preacher. Those who want illumination
VOL. II. B

and instruction must seek it elsewhere ; 
and surely in the present day it is easy
enough to get an immense amount of
information concerning all subjects at a
very small cost. Sometimes, indeed, one
is a little tempted to wonder whether the
teachers do not outnumber the scholars,
since most persons whom one meets with
are so willing to expound all dark sayings
and reveal all mysteries.

I have no claim to belong to the pedagogic
and improving class ; and would
merely ask the gentle reader  if in these
enlightened days that kind and sympathetic
being still exists  to picture some
lazy loiterer, arrayed in a torn cloak
and tattered jerkin, and a cap which
once had bells to it  their old-world
jangling was so sadly out of tune with the
triumphal war-march of modern progress,
that he pulled them all off long ago 
sitting among the dusty grass and wildflowers,
by the wayside of life, and telling

simple stories to the passers-by. Not
telling them to the wise and prudent
and successful, who would certainly call
him a sturdy beggar, a mere cumbered
of the ground, and bid him either set
about some useful business, or proceed to
improve himself off the face of the earth,
with all possible despatch : but telling
them to quiet ordinary folk, who are not
very wise or very successful, who are a
little confused with the turmoil and the
strife of tongues, and a little weary and
footsore with the journey ;  begging them
to rest awhile with him by the roadside,
and listen to simple tales of friendship
and of sorrow, of laughter and of lovers'
kisses ; begging them to judge gently all
the barren, groping, uncertain lives around
them, and to smile,  if they will,  but smile
very tenderly at the strange tragi-comedy of
every day. He has neither advice to give,
nor solution to offer  the poor Fool, in
his ragged motley, is hardly likely to have

discovered the panacea for this world's
troubles, when the great and learned and
courageous have failed so signally to do
so. But he clings to one or two fantastic
hopes that have lingered with us
through many ages ; and does not despair,
as he watches,  from amongst the dusty
grass and flowers,  the anxious eager multitudes
jostling each other along the great
highroad, which stretches across the isthmus
of this life, between the two eternities.
It is always an ungracious task to try
to show any unvarnished side of truth ;
and the unvarnished truth concerning
themselves has usually been singularly unpalatable
to members of the human family
only the Fool would attempt to present
it. . His acknowledged want of wits may
save him from the angry punishments with
which men are wont to visit the indiscretion
of those who try to tell them what
they really are. Under the shelter of the
cap and bells, alone, can one venture to

say that absolute black and white, undoubted
hero and villain, are hardly ever
to be met with ; and that heaven and hell
certainly belong to quite another state of
being than to this present one ;  that
original sin is pretty evenly distributed
among us all ;  that even the saint maybe
caught wearing strangely dirty old
clothes, while the sinner is found arrayed,
now and then, in a garment of genuine
righteousness ;  that, while man is very
little higher than the beasts, he is, also,
very little lower than the angels.

In treating poor Elizabeth Lorimer's
character from this confusing and unsatisfactory
point of view, I know that
I run the risk of losing her many friends
and admirers. Yet, in truth, she was very
far from being an ideal woman. She
could neither satisfy those excellent persons
who have a sentimental longing after
what has been called " the constant
mourner ;" nor could she please the more

light-minded class, who are disposed to
recommend plenty of eating and drinking
to-day, since the time for all such enjoyment
may be passed and over by tomorrow.
She was subtly compounded
of good and evil, nobility and frivolity, of
fine aspirations and commonplace selfishness.
She was capable of determining
against her higher instincts, and then
repenting of her error, all too late, like
many another young creature. She loved
life, and would fain have seen good days ;
and,  perhaps consequently,  she had buta
misty and indistinct perception of the
infinite value of a humble spirit and a
broken and contrite heart.

Nearly a year had passed away since
Elizabeth had made her compact with
Fred Wharton in the quaintly furnished
studio down by the river. She had spent
the early summer in London, and then had
gone abroad with the Frank Lorimerss, 
Wharton, of course, being of the party, 

and had studied the art of Platonic friendship
on the wild sea-shore and among the
bare windy uplands of Brittany. Her connection
with Claybrooke had been restricted
to letters. She had offered to goto
the Rectory, it is true : but, unfortunately,
she happened to propose herself just
at the time when Mr. and Mrs. Mainwaring
were about to make their yearly visit to
Belford ; and it was too much to expect
their dignified and stately plans to be set
aside for Elizabeth  whose appreciation of
Claybrooke and of its owners' society, her
aunt, at least, regarded as so distinctly
limited. Mr. Mainwaring had paid her one
or two visits in London, which were chiefly
remarkable for their extreme brevity. The
Rector, it must be confessed, did not find
himself in very active sympathy with his
niece's present surroundings.

Face downwards, in the narrow writing-table
drawer, still lay the charcoal sketch
of Robert Lorimer. Elizabeth had never

moved it from its resting-place since the day
when she had decided to forget the past,
and to try and find fresh joy and hope in
the future. In some fabrics it is possible
to patch a rent for a time ; but eventually
the stuff gives and gives, and, as we
know, the new piece only makes the hole
in the old garment worse in the end.
Elizabeth's determination not to grieve for
her husband's death had, in a way, kept
her attention fixed on the fact of his
death. She had striven to patch the
cruel rent that had been made in her
happiness : but as time went on the
threads began to strain and give out, and
the sense of the magnitude of her misfortune
grew greater, instead of lessening.
At moments, by the sea-shore, or on summer
evenings when Fred Wharton poured
out his whole soul in music and in song, or
as she watched Frank and Fanny Lorimer
playing with their two children, the sense
of her own loss and loneliness would almost

overpower Elizabeth. She dreaded these
feelings of sorrow, she fought against them,
and was glad when the trivial interests of
every day claimed her whole thought and
attention. To her companions she seemed
to be drifting farther and farther away from
the past. She appeared gay and cheerful ;
and yet there was an fretfulness and a
certain necessity for excitement about her,
which puzzled Fanny Lorimer a little sometimes.
She wondered whether Elizabeth
was not developing feelings which could
not, strictly, be described as Platonic for
Fred Wharton.

But I think Elizabeth may be quite
exonerated from any charge of this kind.
She was almost painfully conscious that, if
it were possible for her to meet Robert
Lorimer now, for the first time, she might
love him in a very different fashion, to
that in which she had loved him when
they met nearly three years before. Asher
experience of life widened and her

knowledge of men and women increased,
she appreciated more and more the true
worth of her husband's character. She realised,
too, how cruelly he must have suffered
in bidding good-bye to life and love, in
the very prime of his manhood. Elizabeth
became aware that it might not be impossible
for her to worship  all too late 
the memory of the man whom she had
loved very inadequately while he lived.
That fashion of stoning the prophets, and
subsequently  in a fit of bitter remorse 
building them magnificent sepulchres, did
not die out with the old dispensation : but
is practised pretty freely by husbands and
wives, parents and children, relations and
friends, even to the present day.

If Fred Wharton had been asked to
give a disquisition on Platonic friendship
about this period, he would have pronounced
it a very interesting, but slightly
agitating, form of entertainment. He had
seen a great deal of Elizabeth, he knew

her remarkably well ; yet  carrying out his
old metaphor of the unexplored country 
he told himself that though the hills, and
valleys, and lakes, and streams, were very
delightful, there was still an unknown region,
far inland, into which he had never yet
succeeded in penetrating. He was haunted
by the same notion as Fanny Lorimer 
namely, that some day Elizabeth would
develop suddenly, in an unlooked - for
direction, and surprise him very greatly.
There was something rather fascinating
in this idea ; it made her all the more
interesting to him ; yet it troubled him
too. Wharton hated surprises. He had
tried to imagine all sorts of combinations
of circumstances which might produce this
sudden development in Elizabeth, so that
he might be prepared for it when it came :
but he could not see his way at all
clearly yet. He told himself, however,
that women certainly were very interesting,
and he began to neglect his other

friends a little. Men are comparatively easy
to understand ; they are nice comfortable
creatures : but make by no means such
suggestive and exciting companions, as a
handsome, brilliant, gray-eyed, young lady.
At the beginning of the winter season,
that burning and shining light of
the dramatic profession, Clement Bartlett,
came out in a new piece. His friends
made a strong rally round him, filled
innumerable stalls, and applauded, even
his faintest efforts, with a vigour and
enthusiasm, which, it is to be feared, were
slightly incomprehensible to the rest of
the house. Be that as it may, on the
following day  a Sunday  Mr. Bartlett,
being anxious to thank his loyal supporters
and talk over the position with them generally,
held a sort of levee in his rooms, in
the afternoon ; at which the members of
the " Modern Society of Friends"  as Mrs.
Frank called them  mustered in great
numbers. Frank Lorimer of course was

there. As the subeditor and dramatic
critic of a well - known paper, he was
naturally very precious in the young
actor's sight.

Fred Wharton went too,  not so much
because he desired particularly to add his
voice to the chorus of praise, as because
he had nothing particular to do, and
thought he should enjoy a walk across
the park with Frank. He was rather
silent and preoccupied. He had been
working av/ay at Platonic friendship fora
long time now, and he found it more
engrossing and bewildering than ever.
He began to think a man wanted a very
steady head who meant to go in for much
of that sort of thing.

It was not till he and Frank were walking
home under the bare black trees in the growing
darkness, while the air was full of the
sound of church-bells  that strange sound
in which sorrow treads so hard on the
heels of joy  calling faithful souls to their

evening prayers, that Wharton seemed with
a certain effort to shake off his preoccupation,
and that he began to talk again.

I'm rather dissatisfied with myself,
Frank," he remarked suddenly. " It is
a new sensation. I suppose it's a sign
that I am growing old."

Frank Lorimer was running over some
sentences in his mind, in which he was
trying to adjust the rival claims of friendship
and truth in a critique on Clement
Bartlett's performance of the night before.
He answered at random, not thinking
what he was saying.

Oh, you add dissatisfaction to all the
other disagreeable of old age then, do
you?"

I don't add it," answered Wharton
quickly. " Heaven preserve me from
adding one straw to a burden which I
shall have to bear myself some day ! It
will be quite heavy enough any way
without my private contributions. But

it is obvious," he added, " that old people
must be dissatisfied with themselves. If
they have any powers of reflection left,
they must be pretty keenly sensible of
the immense number of mistakes they
have succeeded in making in the course
of their lives."

Frank Lorimer drew his hand down
reflectively over his fair pointed beard.
Really he could not honestly praise
Clement Bartlett's performance very much.
Fortunately there was the acknowledged
excellence of the young man's figure to
fall back upon : but it is rather difficult to
fill half a column with a eulogy on a man's
figure. The public might object to it, and
not without reason, Frank felt. Meanwhile
common civility demanded that he should
make some comment on Wharton's disquisitions
upon the distressing position of
aged and reflective souls.

Are you painfully sensible of mistakes
then, just now?" he asked abstractedly.

I believe I am rather worried,"
answered the other.

This was such an entirely surprising
announcement as coming from Fred
Wharton, of all people in the world,
that Frank Lorimer was roused effectually
from his meditations upon Mr. Bartlett.
He looked round sharply at his companion
: but in the dusk it was difficult
to catch the expression of his face.

"You're a little out of sorts, my dear
fellow," said Frank. " You have taken
to never going out anywhere. Half the
men at Bartlett's this afternoon were complaining
that they never see you now."

It's a horrible thing," said Wharton,
half laughing and half in earnest. " I am
getting a little bored. I am beginning to
feel uninterested."

Oh, you are only hipped," answered
the other. " You want more society."

Perhaps I do," said Wharton uneasily.
I seem to be changing somehow ; I don't

know quite what is coming over me. I
used to look on at life so contentedly. I
used to feel  I suppose all the talk at
Clement Bartlett's this afternoon has put
the idea into my head  as if I had got
a very good private box at the general
show. I just sat still and watched the
play. I wasn't unsympathetic ; indeed,
sometimes I was inclined to applaud quite
vigorously, and the tragic scenes upset me
dreadfully. But I had a comfortable feeling
that as I had not written the piece
I was in no way implicated in the course
of it. Now I begin to wonder whether
I have not been rather cold-blooded, and
whether I have not made a mistake in
not being more actively human."

Marry," observed Frank Lorimer,
smiling. " It is the best cure for your
state of mind. A wife is pretty sure to
make you sufficiently human."

Wharton stopped, and said almost
petulantly : 

VOL. II. * C

Why do you say that ? It is tiresome.
It is dreadfully wanting in originality."

Frank was silent. He did not understand
his friend's sudden outburst of irritability.
He had spoken quite innocently,
and without any real desire that his advice
should be taken. If he had been asked,
indeed, Frank would certainly have given
it as his opinion that Wharton would
probably never marry, that it would bea
pity if he should do so, as it would rob
him of half his present charm.

They walked on in silence for a little
while under the bare trees. If people
were cross, Frank thought, it was always
safest to let them alone. Bad temper
is like a cold in the head  it is much
best to let it have its course, instead
of rushing in with consolatory camphor,
and sal-volatile, and other well-intentioned
remedies, which generally end by merely
adding one or two new discomforts to the
original one. Frank did not agitate himself,

but relapsed into his difficult piece of
criticism again.

And I'm not at all sure that I am so
very anxious to be cured of my present
state of mind, after all," said Wharton
after a pause. " Any way, I am not the
least inclined to take the desperate measure
you propose. The cure would be considerably
more confusing than the disease,
it seems to me. I am only angry with
myself for feeling these things at all."

Frank had just got hold of an admirable
sentence.

Then don't feel them, my dear fellow,"
he said.

I couldn't give up my attitude of
spectator altogether, you know," Wharton
went on argumentatively. He seemed to
attach very much more importance to Frank
Lorimer's random suggestion than it at
all deserved. " Women are so differently
constituted to us, that it is a thousand
to one if I should find any woman  a

really charming one, you know  who
would be willing just to sit still and observe
with me. She would get excited
some day, and want to go down on to the
stage into the thick of it all."

He paused, and then added lightly : 

I am very philosophic, personally I am
not at all impulsive: but if she went down,
I am dreadfully afraid I should not have
sufficient strength of mind to let her go
alone."

Probably not," answered Frank Lorimer,
smiling.

"And that would be intolerable," said
Wharton. " It would upset all my system.
It would be the greatest mistake of all.
No," he added, as they passed out of the
comparative quiet of the Park into the
noise and movement of Piccadilly ; " marriage
is out of the question from my point
of view."

CHAPTER II.

* When all the world is old, lad,

And all the trees are brown.
And all the sport is stale, lad,

And all the wheels run down ;
Creep home, and take your place there,

The spent and maimed among ;
God grant you find one face there

You loved when all was young."

One dull, late, winter afternoon Mr.
Managing was riding slowly home towards
Claybrooke. There had been a
frost the night before, which had given in
the morning, leaving the roads deep in
greasy yellow clay-mud. Long lines of
half-melted snow lay under the hedges on
the side away from the sun. The hedges
themselves were a hard purplish black in
the gathering dusk. The broad pasture-lands
looked brown and sad in the uncertain

light ; and the spaces of turf, on
either side the road, were coarse and boggy
from the wet, which stood in little dirty
pools every here and there. A bleak southeasterly
wind cried shrill through the bare
hawthorns and the scattered elm-trees,
promising more snow. It was a chilly
dreary evening, on which even a healthy
unimaginative man might well be affected
by the outward aspects of nature ; might
be full of gloomy fancies, and take depressing
views of human nature and of
things in general.

Mr. Mainwaring had had a trying day,
and was a little disposed to think that
everything was " going to the bad."  He
was chilled and somewhat tired ; but,
wishing to spare his horse, he jogged along
slowly up the muddy road under the broad
sweep of lowering gray sky. His head
was sunk into the collar of his coat, which
he had pulled up to keep off some of the
cold south-easterly wind ; his shoulders

were up to his ears ; he held the bridle
with stiff fingers ; both he and his big
chesnut hunter were splashed and plastered
with clay-mud from head to foot
He had ridden a good way to the meet
in the morning, which had been bright
enough with pale winter sunshine; had seen
friends, and had a cheery time till about
one o'clock ; then his horse cast a shoe, and
he had wasted some time seeking a blacksmith
to put on another. When he came up
with the hounds again they were running,
and he had about a quarter of an hour's
gallop. They lost their fox, and moved off
to draw a distant covert ; drew it blank ; 
and about half past three, with a snowstorm
gathering away down in the southeast,
Mr. Mainwaring found himself with a
good fourteen miles to ride home alone.

He was disgusted, too, with several
little social incidents in the day's work.
Not even fox-hunting seemed to him quite
a safe sport for an English gentleman in

these degenerate times, when the sons of
tradesmen, who had made all their money
in candles, or stockings, or soap, rode
better horses than he could afford to ride,
and treated him as an equal instead of a
superior.  Hardly treated him as an equal,
indeed, but rather as an antiquated and
behind-the-world sort of old gentleman,
who was by no means up to the level of
the civilisation of the present day. He
was specially incensed against a certain
young man of boisterous manners and of
a somewhat flashy appearance  nearly
related, it was said, to some well-known
London tobacconist  who had lately
settled in the neighbourhood, kept a lot
of horses, and hunted four or five days a
week. The young man in question happened
to be particularly bumptious and
interfering by nature : but Mr. Mainwaring,
when annoyed, did not always take the
trouble to distinguish carefully between
the sins of the individual and those of the

class to which he belonged. He kindly
accredited the race of retail tradesmen in
general with the offences of this young
man in particular, and condemned them
all ; while the worst of it was, that Mr.
Mainwaring could not deny that the fellow
really rode hard, and had plenty of pluck.

There's nothing left," he grumbled,
that a gentleman can do, without finding
himself rubbing shoulders with half the
shopkeepers in the country. What with
a radical parliament and a radical press,
the poor old country's going to the dogs
as fast as it can. Fortunately my time
won't be very long. I shall be safe in the
churchyard before the worst of it comes,
please God, but it's a bad look-out ahead
very bad."

It struck Mr. Mainwaring that his own
life, looking back on it, was very like the
history of that day. A cheery start in
the morning sunshine ; a capital horse
under him ; hope for the coming hours ;

plenty of friends ; a splendid burst for a
few minutes over the grass, when the pace
was hot and his blood tingled with healthy-excitement.
Then pottering about the
dreary woodlands, in the chill mist, drawing
and drawing for the fox that could
never be found ; and, at last, the long
lonely ride home in the cold and the
growing darkness. The day dying, the
sport all over, only the weariness and want
of success left. Dirty, tired, bespattered,
old,  that was what it all came to in the
end. Alas ! for the pity of it !

Mr. Mainwaring stuck out his under lip
and set his teeth hard, bent his head a little
lower to avoid the bitter wind, and trotted
on, slowly and doggedly, up the muddy
road, with its wet strip of turf on either
hand, and bare, black, hawthorn hedges.

The hall at the Rectory, with a glowing
fire of great logs upon the hearth ; Bunton
waiting with dignified solicitude to attend
upon his master ; and Mrs. Mainwaring,

with her spotless cap, pretty little face,
and tender wistful manner, coming forward
in the ruddy light to welcome her beloved
lord,  all these things were in most agreeable
contrast to the sad, cold, gray night
outside.

I am too dirty to come near you, my
dear," said Mr. Mainwaring, looking kindly
at his wife. " I'll go into the study for ten
minutes and get a good warm ; and then,
Bunton, I'll have a hot bath in my ,
before dinner.  We've had a
wretched day," he added, as he followed
Mrs. Mainwaring into the study. " The
grass is as heavy as the plough ; and there
seem to be no foxes in the country. Only
had about ten minutes' gallop the whole
day. Found a fox in Michael's Spiny,
just the other side of the turnpike at Lowcote,
 ran him into a drain on Staley's
farm at Highthorne, and there was an end
of the whole thing."

Mr. Mainwaring stood in front of the

study fire, with his hands under the tails
of his hunting-coat, stamping his feet to
get a little warmth into them, and thereby
plentifully besmearing the floor with the
half dry mud off his boots.

Mrs. Mainwaring abhorred a mess as
sincerely as Nature is said to abhor a
vacuum : but she was always too thankful
to get her husband home, safe and sound,
on these occasions, to make any objections
to the large supply of wet clay which he
invariably brought in with him.

I am very sorry you have had such a
bad day," she said sympathetically ; and
then added after a pause, " Mrs. Adnitt
has been over here to-day. You remember
Edward Dadley, don't you, Gerald?"

*' Yes, to be sure I do," said the Rector ;
and remember that he behaved like a fool
too. What about him ?"

Oh ! only Lucy Adnitt has been staying
up in the north, and heard a good deal
about him. He has been away travelling

in America  shooting, I believe  for the
last two years. He has just come back.
He seems to have had a quarrel with his
father about that cousin whom he wanted
him to marry, you know. She's an heiress
and the two estates join. Edward Dadley
went away because of it."

"Just like old Dadley!" said Mr. Main-waring
bitterly. " I always thought he
was a grasping fellow. His grandfather
was a tradesman, and I suppose it's in the
blood. The boy was well enough,  rather
weak, perhaps, but I was fond of him.
He behaved like an ass at last, though 
his father's fault too, I daresay."

Mrs. Mainwaring, observing that her
husband was not in a particularly urbane
state of mind, seemed to think it well to
change the conversation.

Mr. Leeper is going to leave Lowcote,"
she remarked, a little inconsequently.


That's a good riddance, any way,"

observed Mr. Mainwaring. " We can do
very well without him here."

He has got a large parish somewhere
in the Black Country. The Adnitts are
very anxious about the next presentation
to the living at Lowcote."

Why, it's not in their hands," said the
Rector.

No, but they think they might bring
some influence to bear on the Bishop.
Mrs. Adnitt asked me about Mr. Jones."

Oh ! Jones is a good creature enough,"
said Mr. Mainwaring a trifle contemptuously,
stamping his feet again so that he
showered mud liberally over the carpet.
But the old squire has an uncommonly
hot tongue, you know, and if he talked
much to Jones, as he can talk when he is
put out, the poor fellow would be frightened
clean out of his wits. They want a
stronger man than Jones at Lowcote.
Between ourselves, Susan, dear old Adnitt
is a bit of a tyrant."

Poor Mrs. Mainwaring was fated on that
evening, much against her will, to say
things by no means calculated to soothe
her husband. She moved away from the
fireplace, and busied herself with putting
some stray papers tidy on the study table.

I find there has been some very unpleasant
gossip going about Lowcote for
some time," she said, without looking up.
I really hardly care to mention it,
Gerald, but it annoyed me extremely."

Really ; why, what's the matter there?"
asked Mr. Mainwaring. He was getting
rather impatient ; he wanted to go and
have his hot bath.

It seems that an extraordinary report
has got abroad through Mr. Leeper
saying something about Elizabeth."

Good gracious !" Mr. Mainwaring exclaimed,
thoroughly roused now, and
interested. " What on earth can the man
have to say about Elizabeth ?"

Oh ! it may all be untrue, you know

Gerald," answered Mrs. Mainspring quickly.
Mrs. Adnitt said it was only gossip. She
only wanted to know whether we knew
anything about it. There seems," she
added, after a moment's pause, " to be a
general impression that Mr. Leeper is very
much  well, in fact, that he is in love with
Elizabeth."

God bless my soul !" cried the Rector.
Why, I'd as soon the child went and
married a stake out of the hedge as that
hard, lanky, bilious-looking fellow. What
a piece of intolerable impertinence for him
to think of such a thing !"

But it mayn't be true, Gerald," said
Mrs. Mainwaring, quite alarmed at the
sudden storm she had raised.

True ? " answered the Rector bitterly.
Anything may be true nowadays. All
the old landmarks are going. Only today
I learnt how much I was out of it all."

He felt again something of the distrust
of the future, and contempt towards the

present, that had troubled him on his
lonely ride home. At that moment, it
seemed to Mr. Mainwaring a not unfitting
conclusion to the day's work that Mr.
Leeper  whom he most cordially disliked 
should become his nephew, and eventually
step into his shoes at Claybrooke. "The
old order " was changing, he felt, more
every day ; and he belonged to the old
order. Mr. Mainwaring had a sense upon
him, sometimes, that the world was walking
right away from him, and that he was
fighting sadly  at moments almost half-learnedly
 in a lost cause. The old-fashioned
country gentleman, with all his
old kindly, rather unimaginative system of
things, was slowly giving way, he feared,
before the new age of so-called progress,
and culture, and art.

But the Rector was tired and stiff and
chilly; he could not meditate for any long
space of time, under existing circumstances,
even upon the doubtfulness of his own

VOL. II. D

position in the general economy of things.
He turned to his wife after a moment, and
asked more sadly than angrily 

Did he see her often, Susan ?"

No, no, not very often, I think, when
she was here last," answered Mrs. Main-waring.


She was trying hard to remember : but
she was a little confused and agitated,
first by the vehemence and now by the
sadness of her husband's manner. She
had a good memory for small events, but
the meetings in question had taken place
more than a year before, and it was slightly
difficult to recall them accurately.

He called here once  I think it was
only once  when you were away in July ;
and we met him again at the Adnitts'
afterwards. There he talked a good deal
to Elizabeth."

Oh ! well," said the Rector, who found
this piece of information decidedly reassuring,
" that does not amount to very

much. You contradicted it all to Mrs.
Adnitt, I suppose ?"

Yes, I spoke very strongly," answered
Mrs. Mainwaring. " But you see, Gerald,
for a long while I have not had Elizabeth's
full confidence."

The Rector was always disposed to advance
pretty rapidly to the defence of his
niece. He could hardly believe that she
would lend herself, in any way, to help
work out an evil destiny for him.

If I know anything of Elizabeth,
Susan," he said quickly, " she would soon
let Mr. Leeper know he was making a
considerable mistake, if he spoke to heron
this subject."

I cannot pretend to say what Elizabeth
might do," answered Mrs. Mainwaring
rather stiffly. She was now and then
somewhat jealous of her husband's confidence
in his niece. " I only know that this
report is annoying  most annoying tome."



"Well," said the Rector, influenced by
three considerations  first, by the hopelessness
of fighting against his fate, however
unpleasant that fate might be ; secondly,
by the sense that he and his wife were
beginning to tread on rather dangerous
ground ; and thirdly, by a growing desire
for his hot bath  " Well, it is a nuisance ;
but I daresay people will forget the whole
thing in a few days. I daresay Mrs.
Adnitt made the most of it.  There, I
really am so stiff I must go. Don't vex
yourself about it, Susie, any more. I'll
think it over, and we'll talk about it some
other time. Oh ! by the way," he added,
turning back for a moment, just as he
was going out of the study door, " can't
we have dinner a quarter of an hour
sooner?"

CHAPTER III.

Opinion dispose de tout. Elle fait la beauty, la
justice, et le bonheur, qui est le tout du monde."

Mrs. Frank Lorimer was not naturally
of a patient disposition ; and when the
progress of events was not altogether as
rapid as she desired, she had a strong inclination
to help it forward with a private
shove. She thoroughly enjoyed the exercise
of personal power which she was
sensible of in thus hurrying conclusions ;
and, having an ingenious mind, she generally
found convincing arguments for proving
that her interference was both necessary
and legitimate. It is a great temptation
to women of a certain temperament to
play freely with the souls of their acquaintances,
and to try to force the hand of

destiny concerning them. By carefully
ignoring the tricks they lose, and rather
ostentatiously counting up those they take,
these good ladies contrive generally to
create, both in their own minds and in
the minds of the onlookers, an impression
of continuous and remarkable success in
the playing of their rather dangerous game.
Mrs. Frank Lorimer had watched the
course of Elizabeth and Fred Wharton's
friendship with sincere interest. It had
supplied a certain element of refined excitement
in her daily life which she
relished keenly. She had continually
been aware of the situation, she expected
it would develop : but though Wharton
seemed to be growing somewhat preoccupied,
and though Elizabeth, at times, was
restless and capricious, Mrs. Frank had
candidly to confess that the situation did
not develop appreciably. She began to
get a little impatient. It seemed to her
they must have drunk the cup of friendship

pretty well to the dregs ; and she was
convinced that, in the case of a friendship
between a man and a woman, love is at
the bottom of the cup, just as surely as
Truth is at the bottom of the proverbial
well. Mrs. Frank wanted something to
happen ; she really quite yawned for a
change of scene.

No sooner had she fairly acknowledged
her own sense of ennui in face of the present
state of things, than the most excellent
reasons for doing her best to alter that
state of things began to crowd in upon
her. For some time past she had been
conscious that Elizabeth's intimacy with
Fred Wharton had provoked a good deal
of comment. People observed rather
curiously upon the fact that whenever
they called upon Elizabeth Lorimer, " that
young Mr. Wharton was sure to be there."
One or two people had asked Mrs. Frank
point-blank whether there was " anything
in it;" and, when she answered in a vague

and airy manner, had put up their eyebrows
with an appearance of slight
surprise. One excellent and well-intentioned
old lady, who affected propriety as
decidedly as she relished scandal, had
intimated so undisguisedly that she considered
the connection a peculiar one,
that Mrs. Frank felt a growing conviction
regarding the absolute duty of prompt
interference.

Fanny Lorimer had decided long ago
that Elizabeth must marry again. She
had gone further, and decided that she
must marry Fred Wharton ; she thought
they would suit admirably, and be very
happy together. Elizabeth's superfluous
enthusiasms would be nicely moderated
by Wharton's philosophic calm ; while he
would be stimulated to greater earnestness
of purpose by his wife's strong and ardent
sympathies. It was a charming arrangement
undoubtedly; and there was just that
spice of malice about the conception of

it, which made it specially attractive to
Fanny Lorimer's mind. She could not
forgive Wharton's apparent indifference to
love and marriage ; his perfect immunity
from all those daily cares and vexations,
which seem to be the necessary result of
the close relationship of two imperfect
human creatures. She felt it would be
wonderfully refreshing to reduce him to
the ordinary level ; to see him chained to
the oar like the rest of us ; to hear him
crying out that the shoe pinched, now
and then ; to watch him hopping mildly
about with clipped wings, instead of
flying gaily hither and thither as fancy
fired. She was sensible that Wharton
clearly perceived the limitations and shortcomings
of her own character ; and though
she liked him very well  in a way,  she
never could forgive him this keenness of
insight It would be extremely exhilarating
to get the better of him for once.
She was just a little bit afraid of Elizabeth

; if the progress of events was to be
hastened, and the hand of destiny to be
forced, Fanny Lorimer felt she dared not
attempt to attain her end by means of
Elizabeth. If she was to administer a
shove to the situation, it must be administered
through Fred Wharton. Yet, withall
her audacity, she did not quite care
to undertake the business single-handed.
She would like, if possible, to be backed
by her husband's approval.

Now unfortunately  or perhaps fortunately
 Frank Lorimer hated diplomacy.
He cultivated the very erroneous notion 
so it appeared to his wife  that every one
really knew his, or her, own business best.
He strongly objected to interfering. He
objected both to the trouble and to the
responsibility of interfering : but he had a
deeper feeling on the subject, as well, and
one which Fanny Lorimer was perhaps
hardly capable of appreciating. He had
a certain reverence for the mysterious individuality

of each human being, which
made it seem to him almost sacrilegious to
attempt to arrange or modify the future in
any way for them. Frank Lorimer was
not what is generally understood by the
term " a religious-minded man "  far from
it : but he believed deeply in a kind, and
yet awful Providence, which shapes the
life of every man, and he feared to run
counter to the purposes of that tremendous
power with any impertinent and shortsighted
plans and fancies of his own.

Fanny Lorimer's pretty little head was
full of schemes for the silencing of adverse
criticism, the subduing of Fred Wharton,
and the settling of all difficulties regarding
Elizabeth by means of this marriage, one
evening when she and her husband were
for a wonder  dining alone together.
That afternoon she had been a good deal
disturbed by the questions concerning her
sister-in-law's relations with Wharton, that
had been put to her by different people.

She had quite persuaded herself that the
present state of things could not be permitted
to go on. She saw clearly that
something really must be done at once ;
but she wanted her husband's sanction for
the doing of it ; and she knew that, under
the circumstances, it would be safer to try
to obtain his sanction by a little management
than to ask for it openly.

The parlour-maid had just left the
room, and Frank was refreshing himself
with a peaceful cigarette before going upstairs.
He and his wife were sitting opposite
to each other : but there was a large
flowering plant in the centre of the table
which acted as a pretty effectual screen
between them. Fanny Lorimer, having
a delicate mission to perform, regarded
this as a not wholly unfortunate circumstance.


I am rather worried about Elizabeth,
Frank," she began quietly.

Why ? " he inquired. " I'm sure she

was looking uncommonly well when I saw
her the day before yesterday."

Oh yes ! perfectly well in health,"
answered Fanny Lorimer, drawing a little
pattern slowly on the white table-cloth
with the blade of her silver dessert knife.
She's quite well, but she is moody and
uncertain. I'm not surprised," she added
after a moment  as Frank did not answer
looking up with a charming air of
candour which, owing to the intervening
plant, was unfortunately lost upon her
husband. " I don't wonder at it the least ;
any nice woman would be moody in her
position. I never supposed she could
exist for very long merely on blue china
and ideas."

I wish you'd let the children comedown
to dessert, Fanny," remarked Frank
rather complainingly. " I don't see them
all day because I'm out, and then in the
evening I'm always told they're in bed
and asleep."

Well, if you insist on dining at a
quarter to eight, Frank," she answered
with some decision, "you can't expect to
have the children at dessert. Imagine how
wretchedly pasty Nini would look if she
sat up till this hour ! Next to a lot of
money, a good complexion is the best
fortune in the world for a girl. Nini's
complexion shan't be spoilt for want of
sleep, any way, I'm determined."

It's a bore, all the same," said Frank,
turning his chair side-ways so as to lean
one elbow on the table, and stretching his
legs out comfortably before him.

This change of position on his part prevented
the plant acting so effectually as a
screen : but Fanny Lorimer was not wanting
in courage, nor was she easily turned
from any purpose that she had set her
mind on.

I really almost wish sometimes," she
said, bending her head down, while she
carefully elaborated the pattern on the

table-cloth  "I really do quite wish
sometimes that Elizabeth would marry
again."

Frank Lorimer glanced up quickly, with
a touch of displeasure on his pleasant,
good-looking face.

It is hardly two years since Robert
died, Fanny," he said. "It would be rather
soon, don't you think?"

Oh ! pray don't imagine I like second
marriages," she said, looking up too, and
speaking rapidly. " You know perfectly
well, Frank, that I think them absolutely
detestable  only allowed for the hardness
of our hearts, you know. But then Elizabeth
has got no children, you see, and no
near relations except ourselves and those
tiresome, narrow-minded,old Mainwarings."

She paused a moment, and then added
with a certain touch of unwillingness, which
was very becoming : 

"And Elizabeth is rather peculiar, too ;
she is not quite careful enough ; she makes

people talk about her. Really, you know,
Frank, your friend Mr. Wharton is always
there ; and of course people can't help
observing it."

Frank Lorimer was silent. The conversation
was thoroughly distasteful to
him. He felt a little irritated with his
charming wife ; and yet, in fairness, he had
to admit, that there might be a good deal
of truth in what she said.

Fanny Lorimer added a few flourishes
to her pattern on the table-cloth. She
wanted her last remarks to have time to
sink well down into her husband's mind.

Do you want Fred to marry her then ?"
asked Frank rather sharply at last. He
did not look, somehow, as if he relished
the idea at all.

Oh ! I don't know," she answered, with
a delicate shrug of her shoulders. "It
wouldn't be much use wanting Mr. Wharton
to marry anybody, you know. He likes
to drift. He hates taking steps ; proposing

to Elizabeth would be taking a great
step, I fancy. But still his being there so
much is annoying. It leads to all sorts
of misconceptions. It really is rather compromising
for Elizabeth, you know."

Fanny Lorimer said the last few words
with a delightful little air of sorrowful
conviction.

This was very unpleasant, Frank thought,
if it really was true. Wharton had been
a great deal at Elizabeth's lately, he knew ;
therefore he was afraid it might be true.
Frank Lorimer disliked unpleasant things
immensely ; he always tried to avoid any
lengthened discussion of them. He got
up hastily, knocking the long ash of his
cigarette off on to the carpet. This caused
Fanny Lorimer an instant of acute misery :
but she dominated her domestic sensations
with heroic fortitude. The carpet must
be sacrificed, she felt, to the situation.

"If it's really compromising, some one
ought to tell him so," Frank said.

VOL. II. E

Do you mean that, really, Frank ? "
asked his wife, getting up too, and letting
the handle of her dessert knife fall with a
gentle thud upon the table-cloth.

Oh ! I don't know," he answered testily.
For goodness' sake, Fanny, let the subject
alone and we'll go upstairs."

Fanny Lorimer was absolutely delightful
during the rest of the evening. Her husband
imagined she was prettily repentant
for having introduced disagreeable subjects
of conversation after dinner ; and thought
it very nice that she should have such a
tender conscience where his comfort was
concerned. One really has a great respect
for the Serpent sometimes. He must have
been wonderfully subtle to have beguiled
Eve ; or else the first woman must have
been curiously less acute than her daughters
of the last few centuries ! Frank Lorimer
was beautifully innocent of his wife's intentions
; and Fanny Lorimer was radiant, for
she saw a clear path before her.

Fortune is said to favour the brave.
Fortune certainly in this case favoured
Mrs. Frank Lorimer. In the usual course
of events she did not often find herself
alone with Mr. Wharton ; but it so happened
that, within a week after the above
conversation, she had an excellent opportunity
for administering just that little
impetus to the forward movement of events
that she had so, earnestly coveted.

She called one afternoon at her sister-in-law's,
wishing to make some arrangement
regarding the entertaining of one or
two friends. Martha, in answer to her
inquiries, announced that Elizabeth was
not at home ; she would not be in for
half an hour or so. But, Martha added,
Mr. Wharton, who was also anxious
to see her mistress, was awaiting her
return upstairs. Here, then, was Fanny
Lorimer's opportunity ; all the circumstances
perfectly arranged, the path
smoothed for her, and  supposing Eliza-library



 ILUNO(S

beth did not return sooner than she was
expected to  the most admirable occasion
for her to express her sisterly fears to Fred
Wharton. Fanny Lorimer, of course, was
glad ; and yet she could not disguise from
herself that she felt a little nervous. However,
after a moment's indecision, she concluded
that she could never respect herself
again if she gave way to vague alarms,
and retired from the performance of this,
her obvious duty. She, too, would wait
for Elizabeth's return.

I know my way ; you need not
trouble to come up with me," she said
graciously to Martha. Then she walked
quietly upstairs, and went, unannounced,
into the drawing-room.

Fred Wharton was beguiling the time,
during which he waited for his fair hostess,
by playing. The piano had been placed
in the back drawing-room, and was in a
position which, even had he been less
absorbed in his present occupation, would

have prevented his seeing Mrs. Frank as
she came into the room. She, on her part,
wanted a few minutes for quiet reflection ;
she wanted to arrange the manner of her
attack. She felt that some people might
think her just a trifle mean for taking
advantage of Wharton's musical enthusiasm
in this way : but the end, surely, might
very well justify the means. She settled
herself in a comfortable corner and waited
patiently for the music to cease before
she should speak. The portiere between
the two rooms was partly drawn aside,
and by leaning a little forward Mrs.
Frank could just see Wharton as he sat
at the piano.

As we have already noted, Wharton's
nature always seemed to grow deeper and
more earnest when he was playing. On
this occasion, owing perhaps to certain
new feelings which were beginning to stir
within him, perhaps only to the fact that
he believed himself to be alone and unobserved,

he seemed to be speaking the very
depths of his being out in the music.

Fortunately Fanny Lorimer's nature
was not easily influenced by outbursts of
feeling, otherwise she might easily have
forgotten her purpose while listening to
Wharton's stormy playing, and have lost
herself on an ocean of fancy and of wild
desire for some fair and unknown good.
Fanny Lorimer had a small head, but
she contrived never to lose it ; consequently
she just sat still and matured her
little plans, with a fine indifference to her
surroundings.

Suddenly Wharton left off abruptly in
the middle of a tempestuous passage, and,
after playing a few chords softly, fell to
humming the melancholy song that had
so overset Elizabeth the first time she
heard it. He sang the words of the
last verse out loud, with a certain quiet
suggestion of regret and sorrow that almost
startled Mrs. Frank. She had nota

very delicate sense of honour, but there
was a touch of self-revelation in Wharton's
singing, which seemed to her clearly not
intended for unsympathetic ears. It made
her uncomfortable; she did not like to
listen any longer ; also, she began to be
afraid that Elizabeth might come back,
and that her opportunity would be lost.
She managed to get up with a great
rustling of skirts, half overset her chair,
and save it hastily from actually falling,
with a rapid movement, and sharp little
exclamation, which effectually attracted
Wharton's attention.

He turned round quickly, expecting to
see Elizabeth ; and his face did not take
an altogether agreeable expression when
he perceived who it was that had interrupted
him.

Ah ! my dear Mr. Wharton, forgive
me !" cried Mrs. Frank, coming towards
him with an outstretched hand and one
of her peculiarly brilliant smiles. " I am

SO accustomed to running in and out of
this house, without any parade of servants
announcing me, that I came in quietly-just
now, and I'm afraid I have taken you
by surprise. I really could not interrupt
you at first, you were playing so deliciously.
That tiresome chair nearly fell over. Ah!"
she added, advancing towards the piano,
what lovely flowers."

On the top of the piano lay a great
bunch of white roses, stephanotis, and
lilies of the valley. Mrs. Frank put out
her hand, picked up the bouquet, and
almost buried her pretty face among the
clustering blossoms.

Ah ! how perfectly delicious they
are," she said. "Are they destined for
my fortunate sister-in-law?"

Mrs. Lorimer is very fond of white
flowers," said Wharton rather loftily.

He had an uncomfortable sense of being
taken at a disadvantage somehow. He
had been feeling a little excited ; and just

because he so very seldom felt really excited
he had a difficulty in regaining his usual
calm manner, getting his social armour
on again, and meeting Mrs. Frank with
weapons as sharp, and yet as dainty, asher
own, in the battlefield of ordinary conversation.
He had an absurd misgiving
that something unpleasant was impending
; and that he would not find himself
equal to the occasion.

Oh ! they are perfectly delicious," said
Mrs. Frank, smelling the flowers again
Have you any idea, Mr. Wharton, when
Elizabeth will be in ?"

She will be in in time for tea, I suppose,"
answered Wharton.

He was rather offended with Mrs. Frank
Lorimer ; and there was something uncomfortable,
to his thinking, in the way she
seemed to take for granted that he knew
all about Elizabeth's movements.

"That won't be just yet," said Mrs.
Frank. Then she added, looking up at

him with an air of admirable candour, " I
am very glad we have met here, Mr.
Wharton, for I really wanted to see you
very much."

Wharton did not feel inclined to make
a pretty speech, so he merely bowed his
acknowledgments of her complimentary
desires. A silent bow from a person one
knows very well is hardly an encouraging
thing : but Mrs. Frank was apparently by
no means abashed.

It may sound very strange," she continued,
" but I wanted to say something
to you about my sister-in-law. It may
seem unusual, but then you know her so
very well. I think you will understand
my motives."

Wharton was standing near the piano,
with his back to the window ; Mrs. Frank
was opposite to him, with the light
falling full upon her. Somehow he mistrusted
the expression of her innocent
little face ; and he disliked her taking

possession of his offering of white flowers,
and holding them so composedly in her
hand while she talked to him. Wharton
had a fanciful feeling upon him that she
would keep those flowers, and that he
should never give them to Elizabeth
after all.

There was a pause. Fanny Lorimer
began arranging her bonnet-strings with
one hand. This occasioned her to turn her
head a little on one side, so that she no
longer looked her companion full in the face.

My sister-in-law's position is such a
peculiar one," she went on, after a minute
or two. " She is so young, and so unusually
handsome ; and of course people observe
her a good deal, and talk about her.
People will say odious unpleasant things
about every one, and of course she doesn't
escape. I really do wish sometimes, Mr.
Wharton, you know, that Elizabeth would
be just a little more careful and conventional."


Wharton had not the smallest desire to
discuss Elizabeth thus.

Mrs. Lorimer is perfectly capable of
taking care of her own reputation, I should
imagine," he said stiffly.

Ah ! no, there you're mistaken," answered
Mrs. Frank quickly ; and there
was something so entirely straightforward
and genuine in her manner as she spoke,
that Wharton felt considerably mollified
towards her. " It is stupid, cold-hearted,
worldly-minded creatures like me who are
perfectly capable of taking care of their
own reputations. Elizabeth really is too
simple, and honest, and noble-hearted, to
think what people will say about her, when
she does this or that. She is too innocent ;
and the consequence is that she lands
herself in all manner of bothers. She has
ideas, you know, about life, and ideas are
always fatal. The world seems to me,"
added Mrs. Frank, giving a final little pat
to her bonnet-strings and looking straight

in front of her abstractedly,  " the world
seems to me to be divided into clever
people with ideas and stupid people without
them ;  and the latter have to spend
three parts of their time in fishing the
former out of their difficulties. I need
not say I belong to the stupid section,
and "  she looked up at Wharton suddenly
 " I am absolutely on thorns about
my sister-in-law just now."

Really, indeed," said Wharton coldly,
"why?"

Mrs. Frank Lorimer stepped aside into
the shadow of the heavy window curtains.
She was going to play her highest card,
and it made her feel a little nervous ; she
was afraid of appearing too much interested
or excited. Wharton, she felt sure, was
watching her carefully. She knew that
with some men what she was about to
say would have exactly the contrary effect
to that which she desired to produce : but
she trusted to an almost quixotic strain of

honour which she had observed once or
twice in Wharton. He would rather do
anything than lose the least jot or tittle
of his self-respect.

I will tell you why," she said, smelling
the flowers again ; " and I shall have to
say something extremely disagreeable. I
shall offend your taste horribly. I really
doubt whether you will ever forgive me :
but I must consider Elizabeth, you know."

She paused  it really was an odious
thing to say. She wondered what Wharton
would do ?  she wondered what Frank
would think ?  fortunately he would only
hear her version of the story,  Wharton
would be very certain not to mention it !

In point of fact, then, you come here
too often, Mr. Wharton," she said.

There are moments when it is quite
impossible to maintain an appearance of
philosophic calm. Wharton was pretty
well master of himself on most occasions :
but just now he could not manage to conceal

his feelings. He blushed violently,
and that added most materially to his
sense of anger and wretchedness.

Mrs. Frank Lorimer did not give him
time to speak.

Yes," she said quickly, looking at him
with an air of becoming distraction, and
stretching out her hands  flowers and all
with a charmingly appealing gesture.
It is a horrible thing to say to you.
You can never forgive me. I have outraged
your taste, I know, and entirely disgusted
you. But then people will talk,
and there is nobody to tell you but me.
Speaking is forced upon me  I really
cannot help myself"

This is extremely painful," said Wharton.
" I am more than sorry that I should
have caused you any annoyance, or in
any way  really it is too unpleasant," he
added angrily, turning away.

Pray, pray remember," cried Mrs.
Frank hastily, coming a step nearer to

him, and speaking imploringly,  " pray
remember that Elizabeth knows nothing
of all this,  is absolutely ignorant of it.
She positively knows nothing of it."

Wharton stood looking down. Perhaps
he had never felt so thoroughly uncomfortable
in all his life before. He had
been trying delicate and philosophic experiments
as he supposed ; and the world
at large was accusing him, all the while, of
an ordinary stupid bit of indiscretion. The
position seemed to him intolerably vulgar.
He felt enraged with himself, enraged with
Fanny Lorimer, enraged with the whole
universe. He had got entangled  yes,
that was what people were saying  with
Mrs. Lorimer. He could fancy the way
this and that and the other person talked
him over, and laughed, as they each added
their little quota of gossip to the heap.
And he had always kept himself so free
of this sort of thing. Oh, it really was
too odious ! Heavens and earth, what a

fool he had been, and what a wretchedly
commonplace scrape he had got himself
into !

Just then Elizabeth came in from her
walk. Mrs. Frank and Wharton heard
her shut the front door, and come lightly
and quickly up the stairs. They stood
together, in the shady back drawing-room,
with its soft dusky colours and quaint
furniture, feeling like two suddenly discovered
conspirators.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER IV.

"Looking up, I saw it was a starling hung in a little
cage.  'I can't get out, I can't get out,' said the
starling."

Elizabeth certainly looked very handsome
as she came into the room. She
still wore nothing but black : but within
the last few months she had taken to
dressing in a rather superb manner. This
afternoon she had been paying some visits,
and was arrayed in a gown of some rich
material, loaded with shimmering jet
trimmings, which glanced and glittered
as she moved. Her mantle  fitting
tightly over the shoulders and showing
the lines of the bust  matched her gown,
and was bordered with deep, soft, black
fur. She had on a little fluffy French
bonnet, tying with broad strings under

the chin,  the extreme becomingness of
which had thrown Fanny Lorimer into a
small ecstasy of envy and admiration the
first time she saw it. Perhaps Elizabeth's
style of dress was more suitable to a
woman of forty than to a girl of barely
four-ands twenty : but it had the effect of
making her look younger, and not older,
than her real age.

Mrs. Frank had a gift for receiving
rapid impressions. She glanced up at her
sister-in-law as she entered the room, and
said to herself 

Certainly Elizabeth is wonderfully
distinguished looking."

Wharton glanced up at her too. He
was sensible of a sharp feeling of longing
and regret. He was not at all under the
impression that he was what is technically
called "in love" with Elizabeth Lorimer, 
he was utterly uncertain about the future :
but he knew that their pleasant friendship
was at an end, any way. Mrs. Frank

had just given it its coup de grace. Nothing,
absolutely nothing, could put things back
on their old easy footing again.

Wharton had nothing to say ; he stood
silent, feeling contemptibly wretched.
Fanny Lorimer was the first to regain her
presence of mind, and moved forward to
meet her sister-in-law with a rather unnecessarily
brilliant smile.

Elizabeth, quite unconscious of all the
plots against her peace, took Mrs. Frank's
hand, and then turning to Wharton, said
cordially 

How nice of you both to wait for me.
What delicious flowers, Fanny ; where
did you get them ? Oh ! you've been
playing," she added, turning again to
Wharton ; " have you brought that thing
of Schumann's you promised me ? Come
into the other room and let us have
some tea, and then you shall play it tome.
I really want refreshment ; I have
been paying such a lot of tiresome visits."

Elizabeth began unfastening her mantle
as she spoke. She stood there looking
very sweet and gracious in her shimmering
dress.

I'm afraid I can't stay now," said
Wharton hastily, and  he knew it only
too well  awkwardly, without looking at
her.

Elizabeth opened her eyes rather wide
with surprise, and paused, holding the
half unfastened fronts of her mantle in
either hand. She was arrested by something
unusual in Wharton's manner ; it
was so unlike him to refuse to do anything
that she asked him to do.

I ought really to have gone before,"
said he again. And then added vindictively,
" I should have gone before, but
that I have been so enchained with Mrs.
Frank Lorimer's delightful conversation."

Fanny Lorimer winced a little ; this
was the form his resentment was going
to take, then !

I am afraid I must go," repeated
Wharton, looking at Elizabeth almost
sadly.

How very odd," she said, with a
sudden sense of chill and discomfort.
You have waited for me till now, and
then, directly I come in, you rush away
in this strange fashion."

Elizabeth went on unfastening her
mantle.

Pray don't let us detain you," she
added rather stiffly.

You can't know how sorry I am that
I am obliged to go, Mrs. Lorimer," said
Wharton impetuously and rather incoherently.


But he offered no further explanation,
and Elizabeth shook hands with him
coldly. She was annoyed ; she could not
understand it all

Fanny Lorimer had turned avvay, and
was fidgeting with some loose music on
the piano. She was in a small fever of

vexation. Wharton seemed to her to be
behaving with a wretched want of presence
of mind. What would be the upshot of
it ? Had she, after all, made a great
mistake?

There was a pause. Fanny Lorimer heard
Wharton shut the door ; and then as Elizabeth
flung down her mantle, with a rustle of
silk and clash of beads, she turned round.

What is the matter with him, Fanny ?"
said Elizabeth hastily. She looked disturbed
and bewildered.

Oh ! my dear, I suppose he has
moods, and fads, and fancies, like the rest
of us," answered Mrs. Frank, coming forward
and shrugging her shoulders with a
touch of irritation. " Pray don't require
reasons from me for the eccentric doings
of the young men of our acquaintance,
for I own myself quite incapable, as a
rule, of discovering any. The ways of
man are utterly incomprehensible, in my
humble opinion."

Fanny Lorimer certainly felt better
when she had delivered herself of this
attack on mankind in general. If circumstances
will not allow of your actually
injuring an obnoxious individual, there is
always a distinct degree of comfort to be
derived from throwing a few stones at the
whole race. Fanny Lorimer could have
found it in her heart to run red-hot
bodkins into Wharton at this moment :
but, as there are prejudices against such
practical expressions of personal feeling
in the present day, she refreshed herself
with a little general abuse of his sex. Then
she looked up quite serenely at Elizabeth,
and said 

By the way, I believe he brought
these flowers for you, Elizabeth. I picked
them up while we were talking ; and
then, either I forgot to give them back
to him, or he forgot to ask for them ;
any way, here they are."

Elizabeth glanced at the flowers for a

moment, as Mrs. Frank held them out to
her.

" I think you had better keep them,"
she said. " They seem to belong to you
more than to me. And they are really
too sweet, they make the room quite
oppressive. No, I don't want them," she
added.

Fred Wharton was in a very unenviable
state of mind as he left Mrs. Lorimer's
house and walked slowly home
towards Chelsea. He had a conviction
that some of the pleasantness days of his
life were over for ever. He regretted the
past ; he was acutely uncomfortable in
the present ; and he distrusted the future.
It was a miserable predicament for a
young man, who had been wont to pride
himself on his perfect serenity of mind
and on the delightful security of his position,
to find himself in.

Wharton meditated upon the situation
all that evening : but, look at it which

way he might, there was a lion in the
path. On every side he seemed beset
with dangers and difficulties. He felt
he could not meet Elizabeth again until
he knew his own mind and had decided
on some positive plan of action. On
the other hand, it was almost impossible
to remain in London without meeting
her. And she, at least, had not done
him any wrong ; how could he neglect
and avoid her, without giving the slightest
reason for his conduct ? Finally, he decided
on the safe but unheroic course of
running away. He felt he must have
time to think the matter calmly out ; he
entirely refused to be hurried towards any
premature conclusion. So next morning
he telegraphed to a bachelor friend in
Sussex, who had a delightful house, and
a delightful habit of letting his guests do
very much what they pleased, without
making any too strenuous efforts at entertaining
them. Wharton telegraphed to

this convenient individual, saying that he
was out of sorts and " wanted a rest;"
and receiving a prompt reply from Adolphus
Carr  the friend in question  to
the effect that he would be entirely welcome,
he set off without further delay.

He had cherished a sort of hope
that once away from London, and from
the observant eyes of his friends and
acquaintances, he should find his difficulties
melt away. He had a sort of
hope that the windy March weather, the
great stretches of turf-clad down, with
that delicate strip of silver sea on the
southern horizon, would act as a moral
tonic upon him, and fill him with clear
and distinct desires and resolutions. But
he was disappointed. Nature seemed
curiously indifferent to the perturbations
and distresses of this pleasant young
gentleman, with his philosophic and imaginative
temperament, his questionings
and uncertainties, and his charmingly

furnished rooms down in Chelsea. She
was altogether too busy with storm and
sunshine, and the mysterious processes of
birth, and growth, and failure, and death,
and decay, to have any spare time to read
him private lessons of fortitude or wisdom.
She is no respecter of persons, indeed, and
seems to care no more tenderly for the
needs of the most talented of her human
children, than for the grass and daisies they
thoughtlessly crush under their feet.

Perhaps Wharton looked at the position
with unnecessary seriousness : but he had
always been so engaged in watching other
people that he had, so far, done very
little living on his own account. As Mrs.
Frank said, he hated taking steps ; and
he doubly hated being forced by outside
opinion to take them. If only things had
been left alone, Wharton thought, they
would have arranged themselves : but to
propose to Elizabeth Lorimer because
certain busybodies chose to say that he

ought to do SO, seemed to him utterly
monstrous. All his old objections to
marrying came upon him with overwhelming
force. He liked Elizabeth Lorimer
immensely ; liked her better, he owned to
himself, than he had ever liked any woman
before : but then he liked so many other
things as well,  his friends, his freedom,
his art. If he only liked Elizabeth either
rather more or rather less, it seemed to
him that he should know better what todo.
As it was, he turned the matter this
way and that, over and over again, and
found himself as far from a decision as
ever.

Wharton's very mental acuteness made
him cowardly and uncertain. The possible
results of every plan of action fairly
frightened him. He had no instinct to
fall back upon ; it was all a weighing, and
balancing, and measuring of probabilities,
and possibilities, and disabilities, without
any strong and compelling current of feeling

to draw or drive him in any particular
direction. His mental compass
seemed to be polarised ; the needle
no longer swung true. He wanted supremely
to do what was right and honourable
: but for the life of him, he could not
see exactly which course right and honour
commanded him to adopt.

A simpler-minded man, like Mr. Main-waring,
or  in a lesser degree  like Frank
Lorimer, would have asked himself one or
two straightforward questions and abided
by the result. Had he really compromised
the young lady, Frank would have asked
himself, and if so what must he do ?
Obviously give her an opportunity of
refusing him, to put the matter in a
modest form. And if she accepted him ?
Well, after all, whether he wanted to
marry or not, chance would have provided
him with a very charming wife ; he must
be thankful, and put his predilections for
celibacy in his pocket.

But Fred Wharton could not approach
the matter in this direct way. He had
lost his sense of distinct light and shade,
so to speak, in his observation of local
colour. He objected to talking about
right and wrong ; right and wrong, to his
seeing, were modified and blended by a
thousand side-lights and accidents of position,
which made it impossible fairly to
disentangle them. He was so anxious
to see Truth from every point of view,
that he spent all his time in revolving
round and round her, changing his 
continually ; instead  like
a practical man  of clutching boldly
at the nearest fold of her flowing garments,
and holding on to that determinedly.
In short, like nearly all highly
sensitive and imaginative persons, Wharton,
having for a moment lost his mental
balance, was disposed entirely to mistake
the relative value of things ; and while he
was engaged in sedulously straining at a

gnat, ran great risk of swallowing a whole
caravan of camels.

Behind all these other feelings, there lingered
an absurd but haunting idea that in
marrying Elizabeth he would be spoiling
a great artistic effect. He did not like
to think of her settling down and assuming
the role of an ordinary respectable
commonplace matron. It seemed to him
that she would lose a great deal of her
charm under those circumstances. He had
accepted Mrs. Frank's notion concerning
Elizabeth, as has already been mentioned.
He had been waiting and looking out fora
long time for a dramatic denouement ;
and he could not help feeling that Elizabeth
would be somewhat of a fraud if the
denouement did not come off. She seemed
to him cut out for some striking, perhaps
tragic, situation ; and he thought it
would certainly be a loss to have her sink
down to the usual dead level of womanhood.
On the other hand, there would be

something rather distracting about a wife
who might develop suddenly any day and
surprise you immensely. It seemed to
Wharton a little like undertaking a Jack-in-the-box
with an insecure fastening, and
he could not imagine any possession less
conducive to domestic peace and security.

These and a dozen more puzzling
thoughts occurred to Wharton, as he
wandered over the short-cropped turf of
the chalk downs in the blustering March
weather. At last, when nearly three weeks
had passed away, he began to be aware
that his position and attitude of mind were
rapidly becoming extremely ludicrous.
This state of things could not go on forever.
Adolphus Carr was expecting a
house full of people, and Wharton was
sensible that he was just a little in the
way. As both reason and desire refused
to lead him, he determined to fall back on
what devout persons call " chance," and
devout ones call Providence. He would

VOL. 11. G

go back to London ; perhaps some 
contingency  perhaps the mere
sight of Elizabeth might make the way
clear. Wharton did not wish to have too
good a reason for laughing at himself;
and he felt that his flight and long-continued
state of uncertainty had an element
of absurdity in them :  too, he remembered
some drawing engagements that he could
no longer neglect. He must hope that
"something would turn up,"

The rooms overlooking the river presented
a very inviting appearance, after
the chilly desolate country shivering
in the cool embraces of early spring.
Wharton's spirits rose. Something certainly,
he thought, would turn up to help
him out of his difficulties. Meanwhile
events had been taking place in London
which had considerably changed the
aspect of Elizabeth Lorimer's affairs.

CHAPTER V.

"Comment, dissent-ils,
Enchanter les belles
Sans philtres subtile?"

There comes a moment in the history of
the life of each of the saints, when Satan,
baffled at all other points, makes one last
and desperate assault upon the soul through
the medium of the senses. St. Anthony
could not escape from this trial in the
burning solitude of the Egyptian desert,
nor St. Francis amid the spotless purity
of the alpine snows, nor St. Benedict in
his cave among the cruel rocks and briars.
Nor could poor Mr. Leeper escape it either,
though he had a yellowish complexion and
sparse black beard ; and though he lived
in this enlightened nineteenth century,
when, as we know, " the sea of faith " is no

longer " at the full," and we only listen 

some sadly and some gladly  to " its
melancholy, long, withdrawing roar," retreating
" down the vast edges," and
naked shingles of the world."

Without asserting that Mr. Leeper, at
this or any other stage of his career, deserved
the honours of canonisation, we must
allow that, having taken no small pains to
form himself upon the orthodox models, he
had a perfect right to suffer all the orthodox
temptations. It may be added that
the natural man dies very hard in each one
of us ; perhaps fortunately, for if it had not
always been so,  if the said natural man
had not always been blessed with a considerable
amount of vitality,  there is no
saying in how many more wonderful vagaries
the human race might not have already
indulged, or how much farther away we
might not have wandered, by this time,
from our great mother Nature, and from
the simple foundations of our humanity.

During the year and more that had
passed since Elizabeth Lorimer left Clay-brooke,
Mr. Leeper had by no means
ceased to think of the stately, gray-eyed,
young lady with whom  from many points
of view  a nearer connection appeared so
desirable. Mr. Leeper's mind was of a
very tenacious order. When he had once
conceived an idea, it was pretty sure eventually
to influence his action in some direct
and practical way. His was not a poetical
mind, in which a thousand and one charming
and moving possibilities can float and
float, like soft white clouds in a summer sky,
producing delicious effects of light and
shade, but never precipitating themselves
upon the sleepy land below in the positive,
and often inconvenient, form of rain.

Among the distractions and annoyances
of his parish work, during the constant
struggle to communicate to his somewhat
supine brother clergy a touch of his own
superabundant enthusiasm, Mr. Leeper was

often visited by thoughts of Elizabeth.
His state of mind may be regarded from
two points of view during this period,  of
this fact he was quite sensible himself, and,
for some cause, it troubled him. The
social and material advantages which a
marriage with Elizabeth offered him
seemed to sink more and more out of
sight ; while the attractive power of her
beauty and charm of her manner waxed
stronger and stronger. Memory played
strange tricks upon Mr. Leeper. Little
delicate flowers began to blossom in the
rather neglected and arid region of his
heart. He knew this, and it irritated
him. Should he say that he was being
tempted to fall away from the great work
that he had proposed to himself,  was he
indeed disposed to desert the Cause for
love of one of the fair daughters of men ?
Or was he merely turning the more gentle
and human side of his character, long
hidden under hard deposits of ecclesiastical

and social theory, towards the gracious
sunlight ? Mr. Leeper could not tell :
but he knew that, for some strange reason,
he would feel happier if he could be certain
that he contemplated marriage in
cold blood  if he could be sure that he
wished to marry for the sake of the
Cause rather than for the sake of the
woman !

He was a really devout man. He believed
that all his life was ordered for him.
He depended very much on the leading of
circumstances, not perceiving that circumstances,
in the case of a strong nature,
have a curious tendency to lead in the
direction in which that nature desires to
go. Mr. Leeper determined to wait, to
give the matter time. He did not say 
as Wharton said later in a somewhat analogous
position  that "something would
turn up ;" he held that if it was to bethe
way would be made clear by a higher
power. So month after month had passed

by, till, at last, quite unexpectedly, Mr.
Leeper was offered a large parish in the
active crowded manufacturing district
which lies in the north of Midlandshire.

Two years before he would have clutched
at the offer, simply because it promised to
widen his sphere of action, to put him into
a prominent position, and give him an opportunity
of testing the working capacity of
many of those theories which he so ardently
cherished. Nowanotherthought influenced
him. He had waited patiently; this might
be the looked-for leading of circumstance.
He would have more to offer Elizabeth ;
her money and position would be more
than ever desirable for him ; and the
prospect of wide influence and of self-devotion
to a great practical good might
be somewhat of a bait with which to
tempt her. Alas, alas ! Mr. Leeper's eye
was no longer single. He clung to the
idea of a leading ; and yet he felt bitter
against himself Was it possible that,

like the church of Ephesus, he had left
his first love ?

When the news of Mr. Leeper's preferment
got abroad, poor Mrs. Harbage
naturally made a last and desperate attempt
to secure her eldest daughter's
'future. Mr. Harbage, like Curtis of old,
was compelled to leap into the gulf, and
to find out clearly what his brother clergyman's
state of mind and intentions might
be. Unfortunately Mr. Harbage's self-sacrifice
was not crowned with the same
success as that of the ancient Roman.
Mr. Leeper intimated that such few affections
as he was unwillingly sensible of
possessing were altogether engaged elsewhere
; and the gulf seemed to yawn,
deeper and wider than ever, between the
eldest Miss Harbage and matrimony.

Led by that vindictive instinct, which so
often animates the heart of an affectionate
mother when one of her children appears
to be slighted, Mrs. Harbage immediately

did her best to discover who was committing
the unparalleled atrocity of engrossing
Mr. Leeper's affections. The memory of
former disappointments naturally beset
her, and she instinctively fixed on Elizabeth
Lorimer as the culprit. Mrs. Harbage
loved to proclaim, if not her woes, at
least the sins of others, which might in
some measure be supposed to produce
those woes. And so the rumour concerning
Mr. Leeper and Mrs. Lorimer was set
afloat, which eventually, as we have already
seen, reached Claybrooke Rectory, and
caused a very distinct amount of annoyance
to its inmates.

Mr. Leeper could not actually contradict
the rumour ; nay, he was disposed
to accept it as a part of the expected
leading. He determined that,  as soon
as the necessary formalities, regarding the
leaving of his old parish and taking possession
of his new one, had been accomplished,
 he would go up to London and

see the young lady whose image, for the
last twelve months, had haunted him so
constantly.

But having once given in to the
pleasing notion that he was intended
eventually to try his fortune with Elizabeth,
Mr. Leeper became absurdly anxious
to see her as soon as possible. It was
not without one or two struggles that he
decided to postpone his visit till all business
matters should be settled. Poor Mr.
Leeper had been accustomed to obey his
own commands unhesitatingly for a good
number of years : but now his inclination
seemed sadly disposed to rebel against his
will. He was sensible of the rebellion,
and it made him stern and imperious towards
himself Men of his nature seem
almost to buy the right of being somewhat
harsh to others, since they are so
unsparing to themselves. Mr. Leeper did
not love his neighbour with altogether
apostolic fervour : but at times he absolutely

hated himself  which, perhaps, failing
the first, was the next best thing he
could do.

It was on a soft dull afternoon towards
the end of March, that Mr. Leeper
found himself, at last, waiting on Mrs.
Lorimer's doorstep,  one of those warm
enervating days when spring seems to
come upon upon us suddenly ; deceptive
days, tempting persons of a sanguine disposition
to throw aside greatcoats, and
believe that winter is altogether past, 
followed too often, in our uncertain climate,
by disappointment for the hopeful in the
shape of weeks of black north-east wind.

London seemed very hot and stuffy after
the bracing air of Midlandshire. Mr. Leeper
was less vigorous than usual. The warm
day made him feel a little limp. He was
rather nervous too, and was aware that he
was not in exactly the right state, either
of mind or of body, for a great undertaking.
He had not decided how much he

meant to say to Elizabeth Lorimer ; he
hoped again that circumstances would
point the way for him. Few men feel at
their best with the possibility of a proposal
hanging over them, and Mr. Leeper felt
decidedly uncomfortable at this moment.

Mrs. Lorimer was at home  so Martha
told him. That excellent woman was
somewhat moved at his advent. It was
pleasant to her to see a familiar face
from the Claybrooke neighbourhood, even
though the owner of it was not held very
dear at Claybrooke Rectory itself She
conducted Mr. Leeper upstairs with a considerable
show of satisfaction, and brought
him word that Mrs. Lorimer was engaged
just then, but would be with him shortly.

It must be remembered that Mr. Leeper
had been living quietly in a not particularly
enlightened part of the country, for
some years, and had by no means kept
pace with the times in the matter of
house decoration ; therefore the appearance

of Mrs. Lorimer's drawing-room
struck him rather forcibly. The rich,
mysterious colours of the carpets and
hangings, the strange crowded pattern of
the wall-paper, the quaintly-shaped furniture,
the dusky blue covers of the chairs,
the profusion of pretty, useless, unnecessary
odds and ends  all surprised him a little.
The room was filled with the delicious
sweetness of a couple of flame-coloured
azaleas, in full blossom, standing in large
pots in the windows. There was a sense
to him of fretfulness, of too much
meaning, in all this subdued colour, in
this multitude of forms and patterns.
He was strongly aware of the charm of it
all : but it was bewildering to him in a
way. He almost recoiled from it.

Mr. Leeper was not quite himself this
afternoon. He was easily affected. The
room seemed to him a little dangerous,
and even more enervating, to the moral
and mental fibres, than the soft spring day

outside. He hated to be influenced. He
liked to dominate his surroundings ; and
as he looked round this room, with its
luxurious decorations and sweetly-scented
atmosphere, he became sensible that there
was a risk of his surroundings dominating
him. Mr. Leeper had starved his senses
on high moral grounds; his senses seemed
inclined to take their revenge on him, this
afternoon. The memory of Elizabeth Lorimer's
beauty grew stronger and stronger
within him ; he longed more than ever to
see her. Yet he felt angry with himself,
angry with her, distrustful of the leading.
It seemed to him that, like Samson of
old, he was being beguiled ; his strength
and his vigour were in danger of being
stolen, hopelessly, yet deliciously, away
from him by the fair daughter of the
Philistines. Mr. Leeper's forehead crumpled
itself up into very hard lines ; and
his tall, angular, black figure looked
singularly out of place amid the dim

richness of Elizabeth Lorimer's drawing-room.


He stood lost in a rather unpleasant
reverie, when the soft dragging sound of a
woman's dress on the carpet caused him
suddenly to look round. Elizabeth had
come in through the other room, and was
standing with one arm raised, pushing
aside the h.QdiVy portiere.

She was dressed in a long gown of black
brocaded stuff. The material was soft, and
hung in graceful folds as she stretched her
hand up to draw back the curtain. She
wore some handsome old lace, at her throat
and wrists, of that delightfully harmonious
shade of colour which inartistic persons
are wont to say is the objectionable result
of a want of good honest soap and water,
there are people, though, who in their
adoration of cleanliness would wash the
bloom off a peach before eating it, I believe
! Elizabeth's brown hair was knotted
low down at the back of her head, and

curled a little about her forehead, lending
a certain pretty tenderness to her face.
Her appearance intensified the feelings with
which Mr. Leeper was already troubled.
She was certainly very beautiful. He enjoyed
and yet almost regretted it.

All this, though long in the telling of
it, occupied really but a few seconds of
time. Elizabeth greeted her guest very
graciously, while he, on his part, presented
rather a disturbed and harassed countenance
to her gaze.

I did not know you were in London,
Mr. Leeper," she said, smiling as she held
out her hand to him.

I have come up on business," he
answered. " My stay is not likely to bea
protracted one."

Then it is all the more kind of you to
take the trouble of coming to see me,"
said Elizabeth.

Mr. Leeper looked at her rather anxiously.
It struck Elizabeth that there

VOL. II. H

was an odd intensity and suggestion of
suppressed excitement about his face and
manner. It was a little uncomfortable.
But probably it meant nothing  she had
not seen him for a long time ; and meanwhile
she had been living among people
who were quite the reverse of intense.
Mr. Leeper's visit was a matter of very
secondary importance to Elizabeth. Her
thoughts were much more occupied with
the fact that she had made a disagreeable
discovery regarding her banker's book,
and that nothing had been heard or seen
of Fred Wharton, since the day on which
he had so abruptly left her.

Won't you sit down?" she said, settling
herself as she spoke in a low chair by the
fireplace.

I would rather stand, thank you,"
answered Mr. Leeper, with unnecessary
precision.

Elizabeth felt a little bit bored. She
leant back lazily in her chair, resting her

elbows on the two arms of it, and holding
up one hand to shield her face from
the warmth of the smouldering fire. Mr.
Leeper could not help observing the fine
pose of her figure, and the graceful turn of
her head as it rested against the dull blue
chair-cover. He did not want to remark
these things : but they were too strong for
him, and he could not help it.

I suppose everything is going on much
as usual at Lowcote," said Elizabeth, feeling
that she must find some subject of conversation.


I believe so," answered Mr. Leeper
shortly.

Why, are you not just come from
there ?" she asked.

Mr. Leeper saw light : he wanted to
talk about his prospects and his work ; he
fancied it would restore his equilibrium.

No," he said, " I have left Lowcote,
Mrs. Lorimer. I have a much larger and
more interesting parish now. I was not

sorry to leave Lowcote, I never had enough
to do there."

"Ah no!" said Elizabeth. "I remember
your telling me that. Where are you
living now?"

I have got a parish in the north
of the county," he answered. " A manufacturing
district is deeply interesting. I
have an extended sphere of work and, I
trust, of usefulness. The people, I think,
will be far more intelligent and responsive
than in a purely agricultural district.
Personally," added Mr. Leeper, drawing
himself up and looking more composed, and
consequently more pleasing, than he had
since Elizabeth entered the room, " personally,
I feel deeply interested in, and very
hopeful respecting the work before me,
but I shall want help."

Oh ! you are sure to find help," said
Elizabeth, smiling. She rather liked Mr.
Leeper when he became enthusiastic.

"You think so?" he asked quickly. "I

trust I may, Mrs. Lorimer, for I shall want
it. It is no mere pastime that I am undertaking,
but a work to call out and
develop all a man's powers and energies."

That you will like," she said. " I
fancy you haven't any gift for being lazy
and merely sitting still."

The parish has been very much neglected,"
Mr. Leeper went on. He wanted
to fortify and brace himself with the
thought of his work. " I shall have to
reorganise the whole of the parochial
machinery  or rather to create it, for at
present it can hardly be said to exist at
all. I must raise money to build a mission-room.
I want to establish a coffee-tavern
with as little delay as possible, for I am
afraid the drunkenness is terrible in the
low-lying parts of the parish. And, finally,
I must try to restore the church, and I
must have bright hearty services which
will be attractive to the people."

You have plenty of work before you,"

said Elizabeth, smiling pleasantly. " I
wish you all success in your undertakings."

Thank you, Mrs. Lorimer," answered
Mr. Leeper  then he paused a moment.
I wish," he added, looking at her earnestly,
that I could awaken a strong interest in
your mind regarding my parish."

I am very much interested in all you
tell me," answered Elizabeth.

She felt that she ought to have a great
respect for Mr. Leeper and his work. He
certainly had higher aims, and devoted
himself much more consistently to the
good of his fellow-creatures, than anyone
else whom she knew. But Elizabeth
was rather worried and rather dissatisfied.
She was quite unequal to getting up a
sudden enthusiasm for the improvement
of Mr. Leeper's manufacturing parish.
She felt wearied in face of his vigour and
energy.  She let the hand, with which she
had been shading her face from the fire,
fall languidly down on to the arm of the

chair. The movement was a sight one,
but it arrested Mr. Leeper's attention.
Again it struck him how beautiful she was.
He felt he was being hurried forward, and
being compelled to speak more clearly
than he had purposed doing.

I have a very special reason," he said,.
a very special reason for desiring to interest
you in my future. You may not,
perhaps, just now be able to estimate of
what deep and vital importance your concurrence
in my projects may be to me."

Elizabeth began to feel a little uncomfortable.
There was a curious mixture
of determination and entreaty about Mr.
Leeper's manner.

"On two occasions," he continued, "when
we have had some conversation together,
you have given me an impression that if
a life of  perhaps hard  but noble work
and high endeavour were offered to you
you would not reject it."

Elizabeth raised herself from her easy

position and sat straight up, looking at
Mr. Leeper with very wide-open eyes.

Mr. Leeper had tried to set his ideas in
order ; to think of the Cause ; to magnify
his work : but as Elizabeth, surprised and
lovely, looked up wonderingly at him, all
the feelings, which had assaulted him when
he first came into the room, rushed in
upon him with redoubled force. Not
coffee-taverns, or church restorations, or
bright services, touched Mr. Leeper's
thoughts of the future with delight and
glory. Alas ! not the Cause, but the
woman, drew him on.

He turned suddenly away and walked
hastily across the room. Then coming
back, and standing before Elizabeth, his
face pale and working with emotion, he
said hoarsely 

"Will you marry me, Mrs. Lorimer?"

"Good gracious, Mr. Leeper!" cried
Elizabeth, getting up quickly. She was
amazed out of all common politeness by

this wholly unexpected proposal. " I beg
your pardon," she added, recovering herself
rapidly ; " you must excuse me.
Your question has taken me so entirely
by surprise."

I cannot help myself," he said almost
fiercely.

Then poor Mr. Leeper fell very low in
his own estimation ; he used the Cause asa
stalking-horse, and he knew that it was
ignoble.

"Think  pause  pray consider," he
said, stretching out his hand with a warning
movement. " Do not refuse a call to a
noble work. Do not hastily put aside a
chance of greatly benefiting others. You
could do so much, Mrs. Lorimer. You
might be a blessing to hundreds of poor,
degraded, struggling creatures. With
your beauty, your talents, your position,
think of all that you might do. Surely,
surely, these considerations must move
you. Pray pause before you answer me."

There was something positively alarming
in the desperate intensity of the man's
manner, and in the earnestness of his
words. Elizabeth felt that she was almost
wicked in not pausing, at all events, as he
asked her to. She stood with her hands
clasped tightly together, trying to be
quite calm, and to keep her eyes fixed
steadily upon his face,  though her heart
was beating so that she could not see him
clearly.

I have no desire to marry," she said,
as quietly and distinctly as she could. "I
have no intention of marrying  none. I
am quite contented with my present circumstances.
You must pardon my frankness
; this is a matter in which the simple
truth is best."

There was a pause.

The passions of anger and love have a
good deal in common. Mr. Leeper felt
himself filled with a perfect volcano of
righteous indignation. He forgot Samson

; he took leave of the broad humanities
of the Old Testament, and turned
as bitterly upon the beautiful woman
before him as St. Athanasius himself
might have turned upon some fair wanton
in Alexandria of old. The Fathers, we
know, did a good deal of scolding at
times.  He fancied that he was about to
smite with the sword of the Lord ; but,
alas ! for the easiness of self-deception, he
really smote with no nobler weapon than
the stiletto of a disappointed lover.

You reject it, then," he said bitterly ;
reject all I offer you without a second
thought. You reject high aims, an earnest
life, a noble dedication of yourself to the
good of the Church and of your fellow-creatures.
It is a dangerous thing to do,
Mrs. Lorimer. A thing that can hardly
be done with perfect impunity. And
what do you reject it for?" he added,
looking contemptuously round the room.
For this ! for luxury, and idleness, and

curious furniture, and delicate hangings ;
for what pleases the eye merely, and
leaves the heart vain and empty. You
care only to sit here at your ease,  like
Dives of old, to fare sumptuously everyday,
while the beggar lies at your gate
full of sores,  while hundreds of men and
women live the lives and die the deaths
of mere brutes, and you will not stretch out
a finger to help them. Ah ! it is you," he
said, " and beautiful cold-hearted women
like you, who are the ruin of our day !
You take plain hard-working men captive,
with your charm and your loveliness.
You bewilder their eyes, you turn their
minds from high purposes, you make
them fall in their own self-respect, you
bewitch and fascinate them, you play even
at caring for their work, you pretend to
sympathise with them ; and then, in the
end, you reject them,  you send them
away with their hearts no longer honest,
with their self-respect shattered, with the

haunting knowledge that they are perjured
in their own sight and in the sight
of God. I have offered you a heroic Hfe,
and you "

Stop, stop," cried Elizabeth haughtily.
She was too angry to reason, or protestor
justify herself. The very touch of
truth in Mr. Leeper's violent discourse,
where he called her life useless, vain, and
empty, made her all the more resentful
towards him. " You forget yourself
strangely," she said. " You have not the
faintest right to speak to me in this way.
And understand," she added, with a cruel
light in her eyes :  " understand, once and
for all, it is not so much your work
that I reject  I could easily, at moments
even gladly perhaps, give myself to that.
It is the condition with which it is offered
to me that I reject. I absolutely reject
you."

For a moment they stood looking at
each other. Mr. Leeper seemed to shrink ;

he seemed to fall together somehow. He
despised himself  which was far more
painful to him than hating himself
There was no one point in the whole of
this interview that he could remember
with satisfaction. He had deceived himself;
he had been in the wrong from
beginning to end ; he had betrayed the
Cause at first, and at last he had been
almost insolent to this woman in her own
house. His anger changed to shame. The
nobler part of his nature asserted itself.

I beg your pardon," he said simply.
I have made a great mistake."

And he turned away without another
word and left her.

Mr. Leeper travelled back to North Mid-lancashire
that night, a bitterly humiliated
man. He was disappointed in his love,
and that was bad enough, after his long
waiting and thinking : but, worse still, he
was disappointed in himself, for he had
been both weak and unfaithful to what he

held to be the highest good. Fortunately
the care of some five or six thousand
souls does not leave much time for
brooding over any disaster, however great.
Mr. Leeper flung himself into parish work
with almost alarming vigour. He was a
stern shepherd, and drove rather than led
his flock into the ways of righteousness
and temperance. He gained a reputation
for determination, for dogmatism, for
possessing, to a remarkable degree, the
courage of his convictions. But though
Mr. Leeper changed very little outwardly
as time went on, he never quite, I fancy,
forgot a certain enervating day late in
March, a beautiful and scornful woman
standing in a luxurious and strangely
perfumed room, and teaching him a
wholesome though unpleasant lesson
respecting his own fallibility and shortcomings.


CHAPTER VL

'* Vain is the effort to forget."

There is generally a lively feeling of
satisfaction in the remembrance of having
played a difficult game and won it. I am
afraid this satisfaction is not wholly amiable,
and arises less from the thought of
one's own skill than from joy at the painful
discomfiture of one's opponent. When
poor Mr. Leeper admitted his mistake,
and retired humbled and worsted from the
scene of action, Elizabeth was conscious
of a certain proud pleasure. She rejoiced
in his humiliation. But when the first
heat of her anger against him died down,
and she had time to think the matter over
quietly, she became more sensible of having

received, than of having administered,
a pretty sharp rebuke.

For the last eighteen months she had
been trying an experiment. By the rejection
of various old elements in her life,
and the careful fusing and mingling various
new ones, she hoped to manufacture
happiness. She anxiously watched the
crucible ; drew forth a little of its contents
now and then to test them ; added fresh
ingredients ; fanned her furnace fire into
a flame, to try what more heat would do,
and then let it smoulder and almost die
into white ashes, to see whether a lower
temperature would be more efficacious :
but, though she waited and watched
with admirable patience and constancy,
the elements would not mingle somehow,
and melt into the harmonious glow
of true happiness. Elizabeth began to
distrust the results of her experiment.
She bent anxiously over her work, she
applied herself to it more diligently than

VOL. IL I

ever : but in her secret soul a wretched
suspicion grew, ever stronger and stronger,
that happiness can never be manufactured ;
that though all the kingdoms of the world
and all the glory of them were passed
through the alembic, yet not enough happiness
could be distilled from them to satisfy
the thirst of one frail human creature.

Mr. Leeper had come fearlessly into the
mysterious gloom of her laboratory ; and
had told her  almost brutally  that her
experiment would be a dead failure, and
that her working at it was so much mere
waste of time. Elizabeth had driven him
out with flashing eyes and scornful words ;
yet the longer she thought over it, the more
she feared that he had spoken the truth.

Wharton's disappearance had disturbed
Elizabeth very much; more indeed than
she cared to own, even to herself. She
was almost alarmed at discovering  now
that he was gone  what a large element
his society, his music, and pleasant conversation,

had represented In her scheme of
happiness. She was annoyed at feeling
his absence so much, and rather over-played
the part of entire indifference inconsequence.


She had been restless and uncertain
before, as Mrs. Frank Lorimer had not
failed to note. These unpleasant symptoms
were aggravated by Wharton's disappearance.
Mrs. Frank observed them.
They made her acutely uncomfortable.
She asked herself, more than once, whether
she had not made a fatal mistake. But
she gave no hint to her husband or to the
world, of the share she had had in producing
the present aspect of affairs. Like
the bad characters in the Psalms, Mrs.
Frank Lorimer kept herself close, and
like them hid much mental discomfort
under a remarkably flourishing exterior.

Nor were these more subtle and subjective
troubles the only ones which my
poor Elizabeth had to struggle with at

this period. There were others of a plain,
obvious, and material character which
caused her a good deal of anxiety. During
the last year and a half she had spent a
large sum of money. Decorating a house,
after the sumptuous and fanciful manner
of the present day, necessitates a considerable
outlay. Then Elizabeth had expended
a good deal upon her clothes. She had a
natural tendency towards surrounding herself
with the best of everything. Wharton
had advised her to be charming and please
her friends. She was charming ; she was
more  she was, in a way, magnificent.
No doubt it is a most admirable thing to
be magnificent : but unfortunately it costs
a lot of money. Certainly she had not
entertained much, so that the actual expenses
of her housekeeping ought not to
have been great ; yet even in this department
a good deal more had been spent
than was actually necessary. Elizabeth
had been rather worried for some time.

but by the end of March her financial
position was such, that she perceived some
very distinct change in her manner of
living to be absolutely indispensable.

Frank Lorimer was his brother's executor,
and was by way of managing Elizabeth's
affairs for her. But, in point of
fact, they had hardly ever mentioned
money matters to each other. Frank had
plenty of other things to do, and had
troubled himself very little about his
obligations in the matter ; and Elizabeth
always had a tendency to take her fate,
rather forcibly, into her own hands.

It is never agreeable to allow, even to
oneself, that one has been needlessly and
foolishly extravagant. Still less is it
agreeable to invite the criticism of another
person in the matter. Elizabeth put off
speaking to her brother-in-law as long as
possible, though she had great confidence
both in his ability and willingness to
help her : but at last she had to admit

that no other course was open to her.
Not caring to include Mrs. Frank in her
confidence  she had conceived a slight
distrust of her charming sister-in-law lately
she wrote privately to Frank, enclosing
various necessary papers and statements,
and begging him to come the first evening
he was at liberty and deliver his verdict
on the situation.

Frank Lorimer was of a very reasonable
temperament. As a rule, he had not the
least inclination to quarrel with things as
they are : but he had often felt it hard
that the world had not been constituted
on some principle which would have rendered
it unnecessary for him ever to have
to say anything unpleasant to anybody.
You may call this inherent sweetness of
nature, or a lamentable want of moral
courage, as you please. The more delicate
virtues always run the risk of being included
under the head of reprehensible
weakness of character. Any way, Frank

Lorimer found no righteous satisfaction in
rebuking the erring brother. And rebuking
the erring sister seemed to him, if
possible, even more objectionable. He
felt that Elizabeth had been very careless
and extravagant : but he had not the
smallest desire to tell her so. Consequently
he arrived at her house, on the
evening of the day following Mr. Leeper's
stormy visit, with a sense upon him that
he had a most ungracious duty to accomplish.
He struggled to put off the evil
moment of delivering his opinion on Elizabeth's
expenses as long as possible, and
took refuge in a little general conversation
to begin with.

I heard from Wharton this morning,"
he said, when their first greetings were
over.

Frank stood with his back to the
fire, in the attitude so natural to civilised
man when he finds himself in the house
of a near relation or intimate friend.

It was only a line. He's gone down
to Oakhurst  says he is gone there on
business. That is really a refreshingly
untruthful statement as coming from him.
Fred's capacity for business is of the most
primitive and rudimentary description, you
know. I don't somehow understand it,"
he added meditatively. " It seems to me
he must have been very much put to it
for an excuse before he would take refuge
in talking of business, specially to me. I
can't conceive why he's gone off just now.
The country must be hideously chilly."

Elizabeth had been standing near him
by the fire. As he spoke she moved
away, and sitting down on a sofa near
the window, began furling and unfurling
a black and gold fan which hung at her
side, with an appearance of considerable
interest.

Oh ! business means drawings, I suppose,"
she answered, without looking up.
I daresay he's got some fresh orders.

There are always a lot of people staying
at Oakhurst He may have arranged
to meet Mrs. Ostler Westcott there. He
began a drawing of her last season and
never finished it."

"Yes, I know," remarked Frank. "West-cost
offended him somehow, and he
wouldn't go on with it. Westcott is
rather a vulgar creature, I admit."

Elizabeth put up her eyebrows slightly.

Isn't he sufficiently punished in the
possession of such a universally attractive
wife, poor man ?" she said.

Frank shrugged his shoulders as apologising
kindly for the shortcomings of the
whole house of Westcott.

She told me," Elizabeth continued,
one day, that she made it a rule always
to go into retreat in Lent. I inquired
where, and she said, 'Oh! at Oakhurst;'
so she's sure to be there now."

Pleasant for Adolphus Carr," said
Frank, smiling. " Complimentary to find

yourself and your house regarded in the
light of a practical renunciation of the
world."

Elizabeth did not answer.

If Wharton's gone to draw, why can't
he just say so, though ?" remarked Frank
Lorimer after a moment's pause, contemplating
the hearth rug with an air of
mild suspicion. '' I hate mysteries. Wharton
used to be so charmingly mysterious
: but he's changed somehow lately.
He is preoccupied. Sometimes he seems
as if he had something on his mind. It
is a great pity. It will be very depressing
if Fred follows the multitude to do evil
and becomes serious."

Elizabeth bent down over her fan, and
diligently disentangled the silk threads of
the tassel of it.

Don't agitate yourself about him,
Frank," she said. " Mrs. Ostler Westcott
may be trusted to restore anybody to a
most becoming state of frivolity."

Frank raised his eyes slowly from the
hearth rug and looked at Elizabeth with
a sensation of slight surprise. There was
a suggestion of personal feeling in her
way of speaking which he could not help
remarking. He knew that most pretty
women have a disposition to dislike each
other : but he had fancied that Elizabeth
was above that sort of thing. He was
quite willing to admit that she was often
too emotional, and even a little exaggerated
: but he had never supposed her
capable of small meanness or social
jealousies. Both her faults and her virtues
were on the grand scale, he thought.

Elizabeth made a graceful picture, in
the softly-shaded light of her quaint
room, as she bent over the tassel of her
fan, with a pretty show of industry in
the disentangling of it. As he looked at
her, Frank thought : " She, at least, need
not much fear comparison with any
woman as far as beauty goes."

Frank had almost forgotten his unpleasant
after-dinner conversation with
his wife on the subject of Elizabeth and
Wharton. It had taken place nearly three
weeks before, and Frank made it a rule
to forget unpleasant things as soon as
possible.

Suddenly, as he stood looking at his
sister-in-law, he remembered his wife's
suggestion. What so natural as that Fred
Wharton should fall in love with this
charming woman? And  for Wharton
was a delightful fellow  what so probable
as that Elizabeth should in some degree
return his affection ?  Yet the notion was
distinctly displeasing to Frank somehow.
He quite acknowledged that it would be
absurd to expect every young lady, who
might have the misfortune to lose her
husband at one-and-twenty, never to contemplate
marrying again. It would be
altogether too much to demand that all
young widows should devote themselves

to some such mild form of suttee. Other
men's widows, he thought, might do what
they pleased:  but for Robert Lorimer's
widow to be thinking of a second marriage
within little more than two years of her
husband's death!  no, most decidedly
Frank did not like it. He was conscious
of a sudden jealous tenderness for his
brother's memory. How Robert had worshipped
Elizabeth, and yet she hardly ever
even referred to him !

It often happens that when two people
are together who know each other intimately,
without any ostensible cause or
spoken word, they will both fall into
the same train of thought at the same
moment. You may put this singular
phenomenon down to mere coincidence, 
which, like charity, has a capacity for covering
a multitude of inconvenient facts, 
or you may talk learnedly of brain waves,
and subtle magnetic correspondences between
kindred minds. The phenomenon

remains, whatever may be the explanation
of it. Mr. Leeper's somewhat ferocious
proposal of the day before had pressed
the possibility of a second marriage clearly
upon Elizabeth's mind. She had heard
some slight rumours of the gossip regarding
herself and Wharton, which had been
going the rounds among her friends and
acquaintances : but Elizabeth, confident
in the honesty of her own friendship,
had put it aside as a disagreeable impertinence,
upon which she would not
condescend to bestow a second thought.

Now, as she played with her 
fan, while Frank Lorimer stood
meditating on the hearth rug, she had
a sudden illumination. People thought
that under cover of friendship she was
trying to make Wharton marry her.
Wharton himself thought so, and had
therefore discreetly retired. Everybody 
possibly even Fanny and Frank  thought
that, to use a vulgar expression, she had

been throwing herself at this young gentleman's
head !

Elizabeth sat aghast as this odious notion
unfolded itself before her. Ashamed,
angry, and outraged, she looked up suddenly
at Frank, dreading to read a confirmation
of her fears in his expression.

Frank Lorimer was feeling somewhat
angry, too. He liked his friend immensely
: but just at this moment he
was chiefly sensible of a keen feeling of
loving jealousy for his brother.

When Elizabeth glanced up, their eyes
met. Both she and her companion were
conscious of a curious sensation. All the
vague amiability had died out of Frank
Lorimer's face,  in as far as it was possible
for him to look severe, he looked
so at this moment This change of
expression developed the latent likeness
between him and Robert Lorimer very
clearly. For an instant it seemed to
Elizabeth that her dead husband was

looking down earnestly, almost reproachfully,
at her. She drew back with a
start, and put up one hand almost as
though she wanted to force him away
from her.

The action was so rapid that Frank
Lorimer hardly observed it. He turned
away, and after a moment said quietly :

Have you got that sketch, Elizabeth, 
I've often meant to ask you and haven't
quite liked to, somehow,  that Adolphus
Carr once did of Robert ? Have you
got it, or have I ?"

Elizabeth straightened herself up and
clasped her hands tightly together in her
lap. Her forehead contracted sharply, as
with a sensation of sudden pain. There
was a moment's pause, and then she
answered in a voice which she evidently
had a difficulty in keeping steady.

I have got it. But  but why do you
ask just now?"

Oh ! I don't know," said Frank, feeling

a little confused. " It occurred to me
just now. I shouldn't like it to be lost,
you know, and I couldn't find it. Fanny-said
you had it."

Yes, I have got it," Elizabeth repeated.
" Fanny was quite right."

Frank Lorimer's indignation was not of
the burning order. Already he began to
accuse himself of having treated his fair
sister-in-law with a singular absence of
the delicate consideration which was her
due.

Fanny generally is right, you know,"
he said, with a slight smile, wishing to
pass the matter off as lightly as possible.
Mentally he called himself an awkward
brute.

Elizabeth had risen from her seat. She
stood for a moment looking straight in
front of her. Then she threw back her
head with a certain defiant movement,
and turning to her companion, said coldly:

If we are going to talk business,

VOL. II. K

hadn't we better begin at once ? I am
not quick at figures ; it will take me a
long time to understand, I daresay. Shall
we come into the other room and begin ?"

Frank Lorimer felt rather humble ashe
followed Elizabeth into the back .
He told himself that he had
given way to a nasty suspicious state of
mind, and that he ought to be ashamed
of himself.  No doubt the sketch was
hanging up in Elizabeth's bedroom with
fresh flowers before it. Nice women are
given to arranging dainty little altars and
shrines, at which to worship their dead
saints. Frank felt very apologetic. He
had trodden on sacred ground without
making any decent attempt to remove
his shoes first. He felt that he had
given Elizabeth cause to be angry with
him. He was less inclined than ever to
say unpleasant things to her about her
extravagant expenditure.

I blame myself very much in these

business matters of yours, Elizabeth," he
said. " I'm afraid I have been wretchedly
negligent. I ought to have looked
after things more, and then you wouldn't
have all this worry."

Elizabeth sat down at the writing-table,
and began arranging the papers.
She was vividly conscious all the while
that the drawing of her dead husband lay,
face downwards, in the drawer, just under
her hand. She had squandered Robert's
money to help her to forget Robert. The
thought was hardly a soothing one just
now.

I don't think I need bother you with
a statement of everything," Frank went
on. " If you'll just agree to my suggestion,
and leave the rest to me, I'll set it
all straight."

Elizabeth looked up quickly, with a
keenly-distressed expression.

Oh no, no !" she said. " I can't let
you do that."

I don't mean settle it in the positive
and material form," answered Frank, smiling.
" It can all be arranged without anymore
trouble to me than the writing of a
few letters."

It is a miserable business," cried Elizabeth,
getting up suddenly and turning
away, while the hot tears came into her
eyes.

Pray don't make yourself so unhappy,
Elizabeth," said Frank quickly. " Nothing
so very desperate has happened, after all.
You're in a little mess, but you're by no
means bankrupt yet."

Elizabeth was always disposed to feel
too strongly, Frank knew. He was prepared
for that : but still the expression
of her face did seem to him most unnecessarily
tragic at this moment.

"What shall I do?" asked she, without
looking at him.

"Well," he answered, "if you didn't
mind going away for a time, and letting

the house for the season,  it's so pretty-that
you might ask a fancy price for it
I think we could put all your affairs
straight."

I am quite willing to go," said Elizabeth.
The house and all connected with
it represented so much annoyance and
disappointment just now, that she was
disposed to welcome almost any change.

I suppose you could go down to Mr.
Mainwaring's, at Claybrooke, for the summer,
couldn't you ?" Frank added.

Oh no, please ! not there," said Elizabeth
quickly.

She shrank from the idea of Claybrooke
under these circumstances. Elizabeth had
begun to feel that she had not behaved altogether
nicely to the Mainwarings. She
recoiled from the notion of making use
of those persons whom she had formerly
neglected.

Oughtn't I go abroad ?" she said. " I
suppose I should have to take Martha

with me, but I could live very cheaply.
I could easily find a quiet inexpensive
pension at Vevey, or somewhere about
there."

"Wouldn't you be awfully bored, though ? "
observed Frank.

Oh no," she answered. " I think I
should rather enjoy being alone."

At this moment, with the thought of
Fred Wharton's possible interpretation of
her conduct strong in her mind, and the
memory of her husband so strangely and
suddenly forced upon her remembrance,
Elizabeth had a sort of sullen longing
to escape from everybody.

There are always the mountains and
the lake to fall back upon," she added.

Frank made a rather expressive face.

I don't go in very much for mountains
myself, you know," he said. " They are
rather grisly companions when one is
alone. But you do just as you like,
Elizabeth."

I don't feel as if it mattered very much
where I went, or what I did," said Elizabeth,
with a sudden bitterness. " I am afraid
I am altogether a superfluity. Everything
seems to go wrong with me."

Frank, not having the keys to the position,
could only smooth his fair beard and
wish, in silence, that women were not so
much given to making general statements
of a lugubrious and unreasonable nature.

After a minute he observed, in tones
intended to be encouraging : 

Fanny's bent on going abroad again
this year, so I suppose we shall go.
Fanny generally has her own way in the
end. She and the children might join
you in July, and I would follow as soon
as I can escape from that everlasting
paper."

Elizabeth did not offer any comment.

Very well, then," he said, " you'll leave
all these accounts and things in my hands.
I'll see about letting the house at once.

We ought to let it from the beginning of
May. Can you pack up and clear out by
then, do you think ?"

"Oh yes!" she replied wearily. "I
can be ready any time. The sooner the
better, as far as I am concerned."

CHAPTER VII.

*' For a pine of holy thou shalt here likely find a gallon
of gaul, for a dram of pleasure a pound of pain, for
an inch of mirth an ell of none ; as Vie doth an
Oke, these miseries encompass our life."

It is not necessary to follow Elizabeth
through the fatiguing processes of packing
up, arranging her house, and taking leave
of her acquaintances,  many of whom
were a good deal interested by the news
of her approaching departure. Wharton
not to be found, and Mrs. Lorimer letting
her house and going abroad !  it looked
very much as if something had happened.
A good many questions were put to Fanny
Lorimer : but the anxious inquirers were
not very fully satisfied by her answers.
Fanny Lorimer had private reasons for
desiring to keep her own counsel ; and

displayed a considerable amount of the
ingenuity that her husband so much admired,
in baffling her too curious interlocutors.
Suffice it to say, that the house
was let at a high rent to a clean and
childless tenant ; and that Elizabeth saw-that
her pecuniary difficulties were in a
fair way to be eventually settled.

There is something depressing in the
ending of almost any episode in one's
career. The episode, in itself, may not
have been very brilliant or satisfactory ;
yet there is a sense of regret as one
turns the page, and says to oneself: 
This is done with, any way. It may
influence the future a little, possibly : but,
practically, it is past and over, and will
never be read through again." So felt
Elizabeth the last few days she spent in
London.

Things seemed to have broken off short,
and the future looked very blank and
empty to her. In three days she would

Start on her journey ; and she began to
fear, with Frank, that the mountains might
prove rather cold and unresponsive company
after all. She had been packing
and arranging and saying good-bye all
day long ; about half-past five a necessity
for air and quiet came over her, and
wrapping herself in a long fur-trimmed
over-jacket  for the April evenings were
still cold  she went out to refresh herself
with a solitary walk by the river. She
had been hurried and bothered in the last
few weeks. She had been called on suddenly
to form new plans, and take an
entirely new departure. She wanted a
little time to arrange her ideas and get
some general view of the situation.

There had been a good deal of rain
earlier in the day, and the sky was covered
with a layer of dull gray cloud. The rain
was over, but the pavements were still wet,
and the unlovely image of the lamp-posts
was repeated in ugly zigzag lines on their

shiny surface. The river was very full,
and swirled by with little hurrying circles
and eddies, here and there, breaking the
face of its otherwise smooth and oily
current. It choked and gurgled around
the piers of the bridges, and then swept on
again swiftly, reflecting the sad, coloured
leaden sky above in its broad restful
bosom. The buildings on either bank
loomed, black and mysterious, through
the dense misty atmosphere. The Embankment
itself was quiet and deserted
enough : but Elizabeth could hear distinctly,
in the distance, the hoarse murmur
rising up from the crowded streets.
Suddenly a train rushed out across the
railway-bridge, with a clang of metal and
roar of steam ; and when the noise of it
had died away far down in the south, she
noted the sharp rattle of a hansom over
a stone crossing, the steady thud of the
horse's hoofs and the crunching of the
roadway under the wheels as it passed

her,  another rattle over the stones again
in the distance, and the sound of it, too,
died away in the unceasing murmur of the
great, dim, toiling city.

A sense of almost intolerable loneliness
came over Elizabeth. There was something
weird and strange to-day in the
hurrying river and in all these familiar
sounds. She seemed to be standing on
the edge of a vast world of movement, of
life, of earnest striving and endeavour, in
which she had neither lot nor part. The
past had not satisfied her hungry craving
for happiness, and the future seemed to
offer even less than the past. Love and
marriage?  alas! she had tried them, they
were over, and had yielded but scant
delight. Friendship ?  her friend had
grown tired, and left her without a word !
Duty ?  Elizabeth shrank from the idea
of duty, it meant humiliation and self-abasement.
Mrs. Mainwaring's face, thin
and faded, came before her, and Mr.

Leeper's hot denunciations sounded in
her ears.

While the wet south wind swept across
the river, bringing the delicate flush of
youth and health to her cheeks, and
men and women, passing by, turned to
look once again at the richly - dressed,
stately, young lady pacing slowly along
in the damp and dusky evening, Elizabeth
felt herself utterly weary and desolate.
Was it true, then, that life had little
enough to give, after all ? Did it really
offer nothing but illusion, disappointment,
hopes unfulfilled, solemn vows broken,
fair promises forgotten ? And then the
end of it, cold, dark, and ugly ; sweet lips
that would kiss, kind hands that would
clasp no more for ever ; beautiful limbs
lying rigid in death ; eyes closed, and
gentle voices hushed in everlasting silence ;
and beyond  a hope merely, a possibility,
 to faith a promise, a pledge, but
faith, alas ! is often too weak to grasp it.



Elizabeth thought of the quiet room,
shaded from the fierce glare of the
southern sun, in which Robert Lorimer
had panted his life slowly and painfully
away two short years before ; of the
last smile with which he had turned to
Frank and her as they watched together
by his bedside ; of the horrible chill and
bewilderment that had overtaken her,
when she realised that he would never
move or speak to her again. Was it
possible that this was all that life could
give her, after all ?

Elizabeth was filled with an immense
self-pity. Those pagan instincts which
are strong in every nature that is capable
of being deeply moved by outward nature,
by beauty, by the glory of physical health
and physical joy, stirred within her. She
revolted passionately against things as
they are ; against cold and relentless fact ;
against the sorrowful ordering of this
world ; against the strange unimportance

of individual suffering in the general
movement of things. It all seemed cruel,
cruel, cruel. Why was she unsatisfied ?
why was she tormented thus ? She rebelled
against her fate ; and, like Job of
old, was tempted to " curse God and die."
Down in the west, above the jagged
line of house-roofs and chimneys on the
river-bank, the clouds were slowly breaking
; and, between the long level lines of
them there showed a space of open sky,
pale clear green, glowing into delicate
saffron light down towards the horizon.
It seemed infinitely far, ineffably pure,
utterly peaceful ;  set there for a token
of final and everlasting rest to the troubled
and struggling children of men. To Elizabeth
it seemed to image forth the pale
passionless rapture of saints and angels.
It was of the heaven heavenly, she was
of the earth earthy. She trembled and
shrank away from the lofty purity of the
Christian ideal, and demanded some more

immediate and material description of satisfaction
and happiness. She was, she felt,
too much rooted and grounded in what
was simply human to be able to fling
herself for comfort on what was divine.
It seemed to her that the awful and
majestic figures of saints and martyrs,
crowned now with the undying glories of
their past sacrifice, and joyful in untiring
adoration, could never have been men
and women of like passions with herself
They seemed useless to her for comfort,
or encouragement, or example. Their past
anguish and their present bliss seemed as
far removed from her ordinary, vain, and
trivial life, as the unutterable purity of the
western sky was removed from the muddy
swirling river, with its floating bits of wreck
and weed. Deep down in the river-current,
too, she feared, worse things than mere
broken wreck and weed moved sullenly
along,  foul dead things which had once
shown fair and graceful enough in the
VOL. II. L

genial sunshine : but now, for very shame,
hid their dreadful and misshapen forms
in the cold heart of the hurrying stream.
So different, it seemed to her, were the
human and the divine. The first had
failed her, and she was desolate : but she
had neither the faith nor the courage yet
to repent, and throw herself unreservedly for
comfort and support upon the second.

It was growing dusk. The long lines of
lamps flickered along the roadway, while the
still wet pavement gave back their blurred
and distorted reflection. More than one
passer-by had paused a moment, to look
rather curiously at the tall young lady
loitering in the chilly evening air. Elizabeth
had been too busy with her own
thoughts to heed them : but she was sensible,
at last, that some man passed her and
then stopped and turned back. Moved by
a sudden impulse, she turned round too
and faced him. It was Fred Wharton.

"Ah!" she cried, stretching out her

hands towards him. " I am so glad, so
very glad you have come back."

Wharton, during his retirement in Sussex,
had pictured to himself, pretty often,
how he would meet Elizabeth again, and
what he would say to her : but this meeting
was both unexpected in itself and
unusual in its surroundings. Between the
weird spiritual light of the western sky
and the uncertain glimmering of the
vulgar gas-lamps, it seemed to him that
her face looked strangely white and
scared, her sweet mouth tremulous, her
beautiful eyes wild. She looked to him
like some lovely lost child. He could
not stop to indulge in the usual little
courtesies of recognition ; he longed
supremely to protect and comfort her.

"Something is the matter. Somebody
has frightened you," he said fiercely,
possessed with a strong desire to find
that obnoxious somebody and destroy
the creature on the spot.

No," said Elizabeth, " nothing is the
matter, and that, in a way, is the worst of
it. I have only frightened myself with
my own fancies. Ah!" she added, putting
out her hands with a weary despairing
gesture, " it is all too big for me."

A good-looking young man and an
unusually handsome well-dressed woman,
standing and talking earnestly together in
the twilight, are pretty sure to attract
attention and suggest interesting but
somewhat peculiar comments. Just as
Elizabeth spoke two men passed, and
Wharton heard one of them laugh, as he
moved away, and make some observation
to his companion. Immediately Mrs.
Frank Lorimer and all the outraged
social proprieties rushed into his mind.

Hadn't we better walk on, Mrs Lorimer?"
he said hastily. "I'm afraid it
may look a little odd for us to be standing
here, so."

The observation jarred unpleasantly

upon Elizabeth. It seemed so cold and
unsympathetic. When Wharton suddenly
appeared before her in the midst of her
loneliness and distress, she had turned to
him with a sense of comfort and security.
She had come nearer changing friendship
into a tenderer feeling than at any previous
moment of their acquaintance. Now
his words almost seemed to imply that
she had gone too far. She remembered
her fears regarding the cause of his disappearance
; she recalled the gossip which,
she knew, had gone about concerning their
connection. Elizabeth's pride came to
her rescue. She entirely recovered her
self-possession, and turning, walked rapidly
towards home.

I am glad to see you, Mr. Wharton,"
she said after a minute or two, with a
certain coldness and dignity of manner ;
"because I am going abroad the day
after tomorrow. I shall probably be
away all the summer. We have seen a

good deal of each other, you know, at
different times ; and I am glad to have
this opportunity of saying good-bye to
you."

Wharton observed the change of tone.
Mentally he cursed Mrs. Frank Lorimer.
He was, also, immensely surprised at
the information Elizabeth gave him. It
would simplify matters for her to go
away, and yet somehow Wharton was conscious
that he felt very sorry.

"But why are you going?" he asked,
This is so unexpected to me. Must
you really go ?"

Oh yes, I must go," answered Elizabeth.
" I have let my house for the
season. I must go, and, indeed, I believe
I should be very sorry not to go."

Wharton could not understand it. They
walked on in silence for a minute or two,
then he said rather inconsequently : 

I brought you some white flowers
the last time I was at your house,  that

afternoon when you came in late. I have
wondered, once or twice since, whether you
ever had them."

Fanny Lorimer was holding them,"
answered Elizabeth, "when I came in. She
seemed to wish for them. They were not
really mine to give, but I let her keep
them."

She walked on quickly. She was anxious
to get home as soon as possible, and not
to prolong their tete-astute for a moment
more than was actually necessary. Just
as they arrived at the house Elizabeth
turned to her companion ; her expression
was somewhat hard, all the gentleness
had gone out of her face.

"You remember our compact?" she
said. " You have taught me something
about friendship in the last eighteen
months, and I thank you. It has been
interesting. It is a very pretty game,
only, unfortunately, it seems people .so
soon get tired of playing it."

Then she held out her hand to him.
Good-bye, Mr. Wharton," she said.

Wharton ought to have been glad ;
things were certainly turning up ; it would
be very easy for him to accept the ruling
of events, and avoid further complications :
yet, so perverse is the heart of man, he
felt anything but satisfied. In point of
fact, he felt rather desperate.

But shan't I see you again ? I must
see you again," he said.

I shall be engaged all tomorrow,"
answered Elizabeth coldly.

Not in the evening," said Wharton.
Surely I may come in in the evening."

Elizabeth rang the door-bell. She was
silent for a moment : but, just as Martha
opened the door from within, she turned
to Wharton and answered him quickly.

Yes," she said, " you can come in in
the evening, if you want to."

Then she passed into the house. On
the hall-table lay a gentleman's visiting-card.

Elizabeth picked it up languidly,
and moved under the lamp to read it.

It bore a name she remembered very
well  the name of Mr. Edward Dadley.

CHAPTER VIII.

For auld lang syne."

As a traveller, lingering in the dusty glaring
streets of some far-off southern city
and hearing suddenly a few bars of an
old well-remembered tune, is carried back
in fancy, across land and sea, to the cool
English air and soft green English landscape,
to home, and the simple vivid joys
and sorrows of childhood, to those clear
early days that seem to have no shadows
and no perspective; and, being thus carried
back in fancy, feels a sense of repose and
quiet and security stealing over his whole
being,  so Elizabeth, seeing Edward Dadley's
name thus unexpectedly in the midst
of her loneliness, and confusion, and disappointment,

was filled with a certain
vague hope of rest and contentment.

It has been said, that first love is
infinite and has no second like to it. The
latter part of the proposition, I fancy, most
people will be willing enough to assent to,
whatever they may hold concerning the
first part of it. Assertions regarding
infinity are easier to make than to sustain,
as a rule. But first love has no second
like to it, for it is an initiation into the
mysteries, and must ever after exercise
a strange and subtle influence over the
mind. It is of the nature of a revelation
; for the first time we worship in
the temple face to face with our divinity.
Many of us worship pretty freely in that
temple afterwards. We get to know
nearly every nook and corner of the building.
We grow more or less accustomed to
the passionate strains of music and to the
rich odour of the incense ; we cease to be
much impressed by the " dim religious

light." Some of us even go further, and
discover that the golden image of the
goddess has feet of common clay ; that
the singers and musicians have a tendency
to gossip over the last bit of scandal, and
even to eat oranges, during the intervals
of the services ; and that the incense itself
may be bought extremely cheap in the
market-place just outside. Yet, notwithstanding
the trying disillusionments which
come to us with time and knowledge, very
few of us can regard with entire indifference
the man or woman who first drew aside
for us the curtain that shrouds the temple
door ; who showed us for the first time the
eternal loveliness of the goddess ; and
taught us first how to move within that
mysterious inner circle of perception and
emotion which is commonly called love.

Elizabeth Lorimer's first lover  the
man who had, for good or evil, first drawn
aside the curtain for her  was a fresh-faced
young Englishman of a common enough

type. Clean-limbed, tender-hearted, willing
to adore, and quite incapable of
understanding the depth or the breadth
of her character. He was not a very
remarkable or admirable young man.
He hunted, and fished, and made love,
and talked rudimentary politics over a
good bottle of claret after dinner, in a
very commonplace way. He was not in
the least troubled with ideas. Nay,
further, when called upon by his father todo
so, he had, after something of a struggle,
followed the very sensible, if unromantic,
example of Gibbon, the historian, and
while he " sighed as a lover" had " obeyed
as a son." Elizabeth's pride had revolted
at his desertion of her ; had revolted so
strongly that it hurried her, as we have
seen, into a marriage with Robert Lorimer.
In a way, she might put down all the
troubles of her young life to Edward
Dadley's account; and yet  yet the memory
of first love is very strong.

Coming in from her dreary walk on the
Embankment, parting half in anger from
her friend on the doorstep, Elizabeth
suffered a strange transition of feeling
when she found Edward Dadley's card on
the hall-table. She had not seen him for
four years. She did not know anything
about his present circumstances. She did
not even know whether he was married
or single : but she was filled with a longing
to meet him once again ; to go back,
for a few hours at least, to that pleasant
easy time before she had known anything
practically of sorrow or disappointment.
She longed to breathe the morning air
again, after struggling in the heat and
confusion of the noon-day. Everything
seemed to be slipping away from her just
now. A foolish hope, a half-despairing
fancy, that somehow a meeting with her
old lover might make things clear and
straight, came over her. Elizabeth knew
dimly all the while that she was ignoring

the lessons of experience ; that she was
fighting against fate ; that she was refusing
to acknowledge an inevitable conclusion.
It may seem a little stupid of any person
to do this ; and yet, to my mind, there
is something wonderfully moving in the
gallant hopeless determination with which
the young fight against the hard teachings
of fact and experience. They maybe
fools. They are fools, no doubt : but
they are fools whom one suffers gladly, for
love of their magnificent obstinacy and
finely-tempered courage.

Elizabeth went slowly upstairs with
the visiting-card still in her hand. She
felt a little reckless  the world seemed, ina
way, to be coming to an end the day
after tomorrow. Meanwhile she would
defy fate ; she would do what she liked ;
she would give herself one last chance.
She would see Edward Dadley somehow.
And if nothing came of it ?  and in justice
to poor Elizabeth, it must be owned that

she had formed no clear idea as to what
could possibly come of it  well then, she
thought, bitterly enough, she would have
to own herself beaten and let the world
come to an end as soon as it pleased.

At last ! " said Mrs. Frank Lorimer
in her clear emphatic voice as Elizabeth
entered the drawing-room. " My dear
Elizabeth, where in the name of patience
have you been ? I have been waiting
here the most interminable length of time
to see you."

Fanny Lorimer had a great power of
letting plain uncompromising daylight into
the minds of other people : but Elizabeth
was too highly wrought  too entirely
occupied with her own sensations,  to be
awakened even by her sister-in-law's
rapid and decided opening of the shutters,
just at present.

I have been walking, down by the
river," she answered abstractedly.

Dear me !" said Mrs. Frank, " doesn't

it strike you that it is just a little late for
you to be out walking alone?"

I wasn't alone," observed Elizabeth
simply.

Oh ?" said Mrs. Frank, with a note of
interrogation in her voice.

She looked rather hard at Elizabeth ;
she had an impression that there was
something odd about her. She wondered
if anything could have happened.

I met Mr. Wharton," said Elizabeth,
with the same air of indifference and
abstraction ; " and he walked back herewith
me." ;

A sudden cheerful alertness seemed to
take possession of Fanny Lorimer's small
person. Fred Wharton had come back,
then, and just in time. She hardly knew
how to be sufficiently thankful. She had
not made a fatal mistake, after all. Elizabeth
seemed strangely preoccupied : but
that Mrs. Frank was charmed at  it
certainly meant, she argued, that some-vol.

II. . M

thing had happened, or was just about to
happen. Everything was really going
right, then. She had hardly realised before
how dreadfully anxious Fred Wharton's
absence had made her. Her present
sense of relief was intensely exhilarating.
She smiled a little to herself, and folded
her small neat hands resentfully on her lap
as she said quietly :  r

You have an admirable indifference to
public opinion, really, Elizabeth. You
know the circumstances and surroundings
of your walk might strike some people as
slightly peculiar."

If Fanny Lorimer had failed to awaken
Elizabeth at first, she certainly succeeded
in doing so very completely now. Elizabeth
turned towards her with a sense of
considerable annoyance.

What do you mean ? " she asked
quickly.

Only that you are young and very
good-looking," answered the other; "and

that of course you run the risk of being
talked about. You know everybody does
that, unless they are immensely careful."

Elizabeth had not expected this sort of
open attack. It seemed to her that Fanny
Lorimer was playing exactly the same
part that Mrs. Mainwaring had played two
years before. It is interesting to observe
how history repeats itself: but there are
some experiences none of us desire particularly
to go through twice, even for the
sake of proving the truth of that valuable
saying.

The drawing-room was warm after the
cold damp air of the evening outside.
Elizabeth felt both mentally and physically
stifled. She had a sense of heat,
and crowding, and confusion. No doubt
her state of mind was exaggerated : but
hers was a nature prone to exaggeration.
Fanny Lorimer's words intensified all her
distressing feelings. She felt as though
she was caught in a great spider's web; the

delicate, almost invisible threads clung
about her, impeding her movement, almost
choking her; wrapping her relentlessly and
hopelessly round with their thin compelling
strength. She struggled against this
paralysing sensation ; she determined
angrily, come what might, to see Edward
Dadley again.

This room is intolerably hot," she
said, for all answer to her sister-in-law's
strictures upon her conduct.

The fire is large," replied Fanny
Lorimer calmly. " I suppose your maids
are anxious to finish up your whole stock
of coals before they go. Maids always
regard incoming tenants as their natural
enemies. They can't bear leaving a scrap
of anything for their successors. I fancy
we are all inclined to be a little prejudiced
against our successors."

The heat is intolerable," said Elizabeth
again.

She moved across the room hastily

and threw one of the windows wide open,
letting in a rush of rain-laden westerly
wind, which made the heavy curtains flap
and the candles flicker.

Oh ! what a fearful draught ! " cried
Mrs. Frank, putting up both hands to keep
a little of the unexpected blast from her
face. " For pity's sake, Elizabeth, shut
down that window, and come and speak
to me like a reasonable creature. If you
want to give me something, pray let it be
something more agreeable than a violent
cold in my head."

Elizabeth shut the window down
slowly. The cold air and the physical
exertion had done her good. She felt less
excited and bewildered, yet more determined
than ever to have her own way,
in one matter, at least. She sat down
quietly, and looked at Edward Dadley's
card again. She observed that he had
scribbled the name of the hotel at which
he was staying in the corner of it.

Now that the whirlwind has ceased,"
said Mrs. Frank, unbuttoning her long
gloves with great composure, " I mayas
well tell you what I came here on
purpose to say. Frank wants you to
come over to dinner to-night. To-morrow
he'll be busy all day. You really must
come back with me this evening, Elizabeth.
We'll have a lovely time putting
the babies to bed before dinner.
Now you'll please Frank and come, won't
you ? "

There was something soothing in the
thought of those two small, prattling,
curly - headed creatures in their little
white night - gowns. They seemed to
belong to the same simple unperplexed
side of life as Edward Dadley. There
was a sweet, though sad, expression on
Elizabeth's face as she answered Fanny
Lorimer.

Yes," she said, " I'll come gladly, 
especially to see the babies."

Mrs. Frank looked at her intently fora
moment.

You certainly are a very attractive
woman, Elizabeth," she remarked. " There
is a great deal of cachet about you. I
enjoy immensely having you to think
about, though I don't pretend to understand
you. I hope you won't do anything
very extraordinary while you are
abroad. I should be so sorry not to be
present if you do anything extraordinary.
Pray keep it till the summer, till I come
out to you."

Elizabeth always disliked these intimate
reflections of her sister-in-law's.

I suppose I shall see you tomorrow
evening again," she said, ignoring Mrs.
Frank's last remarks.

"Ah ! my dear Elizabeth," rejoined the
other, " that is really dreadful. Now I
must confess all my sins. I ought to have
done it before ; but something put it out
of my head. I really have been a fearful

idiot,  I quite forgot it was your last day.
Will you ever forgive me ?" she added
with a very bright smile and charming
little air of penitence. " It was horribly
stupid of me : but I made an engagement
for tomorrow evening."

Then you won't be able to come
here?" inquired Elizabeth.

Fanny Lorimer's observations regarding
her walk with Fred Wharton had made
her acutely uncomfortable again. One of
the very last things she desired was to
spend an evening alone with him,  still
less did she want him to be third wheel
to the cart if Edward Dadley came, as she
intended that he should.

"Oh, we'll come in for half an-hour,"
said Fanny Lorimer.

It struck her some arrangement might
be pending with Wharton. She did not
at all want him to be put off.

Don't alter any plans for us. We'll
certainly come in. We haven't to go to

our affair till late ; and of course we
should have come to say good-bye, anyway.
Now, Elizabeth, do come back with
me at once," she added, getting up, " I'm
sure you needn't change your gown. It
is grand enough to receive the whole of
the peerage in,  and Frank and I are very
simple people, you know."

Elizabeth paused a moment before
answering. She looked tired and pale,
and yet her eyes were unusually bright.

My dear creature, it will be long past
the children's bed-time if you're not quick,"
said Fanny Lorimer a little impatiently.

Oh, just give me two minutes," cried
Elizabeth. " I must write a note ; I won't
be long."

Mrs. Frank felt that things were serious.
She was playing her game altogether in
the dark. She felt that it was necessary
to be cautious.

ril wait," she said. " But pray don't
put anybody off on account of our

engagement. We can quite well come
in for a time tomorrow evening."

Elizabeth moved quickly into the other
room and sat down at the writing-table.
Fanny Lorimer waited, slowly buttoning
up her gloves again. She was a good deal
interested in the thought of Elizabeth's
note. She felt very curious to know
whether it would be addressed to Fred
Wharton or not. She heard Elizabeth
writing hurriedly for a minute or two.
Then there was a pause, followed by the
sound of paper being sharply torn up, and
the fluttering noise of it as it fell into the
paper basket. Mrs. Frank remembered
those little sounds afterwards. She never
quite understood why they had a special
significance for her : but she never could
hear them in a quiet room without thinking
of Elizabeth's pale tired face and bright
eyes, and of the damp gusty evening when
she waited so long for her to come in
from her walk by the river.

There was a sound of writing again.
Then Elizabeth got up from her seat at
the table.

I'll be ready in five minutes, Fanny,"
she said as she went out of the room.

The adage says that there are more
ways of killing a cat than by choking
her with cream. There are more ways,
certainly, of learning the destination of
a letter than by asking the writer of it
point-blank for whom it is intended.

Mrs. Frank Lorimer remembered that
there was some delightfully quaint china on
the mantel-shelf in the back drawing-room.
She had often, she thought, wished to
examine it. She strolled into the other
room.  The china of course was the object
in view, but she was obliged to pass close
to the writing-table. On the open blotting-book
lay Elizabeth's note. The candles
were burning brightly, and Elizabeth's
hand-writing was large and distinct. Mrs.
Frank could not help seeing the address.

It surprised her very much. She had
never heard of Edward Dadley before in
her Hfe. She had made almost sure that
Elizabeth was writing to Fred Wharton.
This Httle discovery put out all her calculations
; yet perhaps it intensified the
interest of the situation. Fanny Lorimer
decided that she and Frank would certainly
spend half an hour with Elizabeth
next evening.

CHAPTER IX.

'' And sometimes, by still harder fate,
The lovers meet, but meet too late."

Wharton passed anything but a comfortable
day. He had a long sitting in
the morning from the aforementioned
Mrs. Ostler Westcott, a very pretty young
woman who was just making a reputation
in certain circles of society for her
beauty. Generally Wharton enjoyed his
work heartily, but to-day somehow he did
not feel at all in the humour for it. He
seemed quite unable to make satisfactory
progress ; he was both irritable and preoccupied,
and gave his fair sitter some
excuse for announcing later to her little
court of friends, rivals, and admirers, that
Mr. Wharton was really rather a dull

young man, and that she, for her part,
considered both him and his drawings
immensely overrated." In the afternoon
Wharton, feeling that he must occupy himself
somehow, decided to go out and make
some calls : but, on second thoughts, he
arrived at the melancholy conclusion that
there were not any members of his acquaintance
whom it would give him the
smallest pleasure to see at this moment.
Formerly he had very thoroughly enjoyed
his own society : but times had changed
sadly with him lately. He was beginning
to find himself a very poor companion ;
now and then he went so far, indeed, as
to vote himself an intolerable bore.

When the time arrived for him to present
himself at Mrs. Lorimer's, he felt as
wretchedly uncertain and undecided as
even The sudden outburst of strong feeling
which had carried him away for a
time, when he first met Elizabeth the
night before, had died down again. He

really could not tell the least now, whether
he was in love with her or not. He
fancied a certain feeling was there : but
it wanted some striking circumstances
to develop it and make it active. And
how unlikely, thought Wharton dismally,
were any striking circumstances to surround
his meeting with Elizabeth this
evening ! The Frank Lorimerss would be
there. Everything would be just as usual.
He would, most likely, play a little ;
Elizabeth would probably be tired, and
would not talk much. Then they would
all say good-bye, and everything would
go on just the same as ever. It was very
annoying. Wharton had often laughed at
his own peculiarities : but he had always
done so in a very sympathetic spirit.
He really cherished and respected all
his oddities and little affectations. He
thought himself pleasantly original. Today
he laughed at himself rather bitterly.
There was a spice of contempt in his

amusement. He was not sure that he was
not a very poor creature, after all. Such
a state of mind is far from exhilarating.
Wharton knew that his evening-coat was
faultless in fit, that his shirt was a miracle
of ironing, that his collar was eminently
the right thing, that he was in every way
an unusually good-looking fellow ; yet, for
all that, he was a thoroughly depressed and
unhappy young gentleman as he walked
into Elizabeth Lorimer's pretty drawing-room
on this memorable evening.

Once inside the door, he stopped, utterly
surprised and forgetful of his own little
troubles, to contemplate his hostess, 
over whom a remarkable change seemed
to have come.

Elizabeth was standing in the middle
of the room, with her head thrown back
and a curiously intense expression on her
face, as if she was listening for some expected
sound. In her hands she held a
long rosary of large brown wooden beads,

with a roughly carved crucifix hanging
from it. She stood twisting the beads
about in her fingers with a strange restless
movement.

Elizabeth had come across the rosary
that day  as she was looking over some
drawers, in a cabinet in her bedroom. It
had been put away there a long time before,
and she had almost forgotten the fact
of its existence : but, seeing it again, she
remembered very clearly the circumstances
under which it had come into her possession.
Robert Lorimer had given it to
her. She remembered, as if it were but
yesterday, the sparkling beryl-green lake,
the purple mountains sleeping in the still
summer sunshine ; the gray walls of the
monastery in the foreground, with trailing
creepers, and delicate ferns, and great
masses of crimson valerian, masking the
rugged sternness of their masonry ; the
laughing Savoyard boatman, in his blue
shirt, with a bunch of red roses stuck in

VOL. II. N

his rather dilapidated hat, lying lazily
on his back in the long rank grass ; the
quaint little booth just outside the monastery
gate, where a gentle, patient-looking
lay-brother, in sandals and a rough
brown habit, set out his small wares 
bejiitierSy rosaries, strings of beads, little
tin virgins, emblems of local and patron
saints  to tempt the handsome young
English couple who had just rowed across
the glittering lake from the gay French
watering-place on the other side ; while
far away down in the south the rugged
crest of the Mont Cenis, awful in its loneliness
and the immaculate purity of its
whiteness, rose up into the deep blue sky,
blocking the way to the passion and the
romance of lovely Italy. Elizabeth remembered
the scene and the day clearly.
It was one of those days that stand out
from the experience of a lifetime  a day
on which, it seemed to her, she had come
very near grasping the phantom of happiness

which it had been her fate  or her
sin, poor child  so constantly and vainly
to pursue.

Now, in the hour of her need, she found
this rough wooden rosary again, and with
it she found a store of gracious and tender
memories. A half-superstitious fancy that
it might help her in trouble, save her in
temptation, shield her from evil, came over
her ; and, with an unreasoning faith in its
protecting virtues, she brought it downstairs
with her, and held it in her hands
when her guest came into the room.

But the rosary only attracted Wharton's
attention, when he first looked at her, from
the strange contrast it formed, with its
old-world suggestions of sorrow and pain
and penitence, to the rest of Elizabeth's
appearance. She was dressed in a gown
of soft ivory-white cashmere, plentifully
trimmed with rich old lace. The sleeves
of the dress were short, with falling ruffles
of lace, leaving her arms bare from the

elbow. The neck of it was open, with a
soft ruffle of lace around it too. On her
arms were gold bracelets, and round her
throat a gold chain with a square gold cross ;
on her bosom was a bunch of deep-red hothouse
flowers, roses and crimson amaryllis.
There was nothing very extraordinary
about Elizabeth's dress, after all. Indeed
it was in a much simpler style than
that which she usually affected. It was
the change from black to white which
struck Wharton so forcibly. He thought
she looked younger and gentler, more of
a girl and less of a woman ; while the
strangely pathetic quality of her beauty
seemed in a way intensified and deepened.
Wharton felt as if she could not be the
same woman that he had parted with, on
the damp doorstep, the night before. She
seemed changed altogether. He did not
know whether he quite liked the change
or not. There was a restless brilliance in
her eyes and a clear burning red in her

cheeks. As Wharton looked at her in her
white dress, with the rosary in her hands,
he had a strange sense that there was
some terrible sacrifice about to be accomplished,
and that this fair woman was the
victim.

Elizabeth laid the rosary down quickly
on the table, and then received him with
a pretty show of cordiality. But it
seemed to Wharton that there was a hint
of coming disaster in her very brightness,
which pained and perplexed him.

I feel a little to-night," said Elizabeth,
smiling as she held out her hand to him,
as if I was bidding my farewell to the
stage. I am taking leave of my audience;
I am going to retire into private life. I
want to leave a good impression on the
public mind,  for the public, on the whole,
has been very kind to me. You see I
have arrayed myself in dainty new garments,
and filled my rooms with sweet
spring flowers. You shall sing your goodbye

song to-night, and then the curtain
will come down, and the lights will be
put out ; and,  I may be foolish,  but I
have a presentiment, Mr. Wharton, that it
will be altogether adieu and not ate revoir,
to this poor player."

Elizabeth said the last few words softly,
and with a touch of earnestness which
was a little disagreeable to Wharton.
He thought she seemed feverish and overexcited
; for once he became extremely
practical and full of common sense.

You've been doing too much, and
you're tired, Mrs. Lorimer," he answered.
I've had dozens and dozens of presentiments
which subsequent events proved to
be entirely false, for one that has really
come true."

Elizabeth looked down for a minute ;
then she smiled at him rather defiantly.

Very well, then," she said, " if you
object to presentiments so much we'll
forget all about them. We'll pretend to

be very cheerful and encouraging, and
talk about the beauties of Switzerland,
and the charms of foreign travel, and the
relief of avoiding a season in London.
I wish to be most accommodating, as I
shall not probably see you again for a long
while.  But I must honestly tell you that
I don't think the country has quite agreed
with you somehow. I fancy the March
winds have blown away a good deal of
your usual urbanity."

Decidedly Elizabeth Lorimer was not
like herself to-night. Wharton looked at
her curiously.

Things have not gone quite so well
with me lately as they usually do, Mrs.
Lorimer," he said. " I have had a number
of new experiences  interesting, no doubt,
from one point of view, but not wholly
agreeable all the same."

That's a pity," answered Elizabeth
quickly ; she seemed to have a sort of
necessity for talking. " I don't think your

new experiences have quite suited you.
You have been working a little too hard
at them possibly. Your cachet, as Fanny
would say, is certainly to be serene."

And I have been anything but serene,"
Wharton rejoined. " I have been dreadfully
worried and bothered. I have been
utterly philosophic and "

But there he stopped, Martha was
announcing somebody. Elizabeth made
a rapid movement towards the door, then
seemed to think better of it, and stood
still. Wharton looked sharply at her ;
her breath was coming quickly, and the
two spots of colour on her cheeks burned
brighter than ever.

Cause and effect often seem to a
bystander to be rather disproportionate.
Edward Dadley, as he entered the room,
certainly did not strike Wharton as a very
agitating individual. He was a tall well-made
man, of about eight-and-twenty, to
judge by his looks. Even in his evening

clothes there was a faint and distant
suggestion of the stable about him, and his
trousers undoubtedly were rather unnecessarily
tight. A fresh complexion, bluish
gray eyes, a fair moustache, and features
calling for no particular comment  a
kindly, trustworthy, unimaginative young
gentleman, with a profound knowledge
of horses and dogs, and sport in all its
branches;  with a disposition, probably, to
hold art, and books, and music in slight
contempt, and to undervalue the more
cultivated side of life generally : but still
honest and loyal-hearted, and acknowledged
universally in his own set to be a
thoroughly good fellow."

He came forward towards Elizabeth
with a frank cheery smile.

It's very kind of you to ask me to
come and see you in this sort of way,
Mrs. Lorimer," he said, shaking hands
with her. " I was awfully sorry to miss
you yesterday."

I wished very much to see you again,"
answered Elizabeth.

Wharton stood watching her. He
fancied there was something constrained
and unnatural in her manner. She was
generally so composed, and almost stately,
in her bearing, that her present restlessness
struck him all the more forcibly.

I am going abroad tomorrow, so that
I could not leave the matter to chance.
I thought you would forgive my short and
informal invitation."

Elizabeth said this prettily, looking up
at the tall young man before her. Wharton
did not enjoy the situation in the least.

T was only too delighted to come, I'm
sure," said Mr. Dadley very cordially.

Then he looked rather hard at Wharton.
He seemed to expect the latter to speak
to him.

Whether from nervousness or from some
subtle feeling of the incongruity of the
position, Elizabeth could not make up

her mind to introduce the two men to
each other. There was an awkward
pause. Dadley was the first to speak.
His voice was rather loud and noisy.
Wharton noted the fact ; he was disposed
to be observant of all this man's shortcomings.


You always seem to be going abroad,
Mrs. Lorimer," he said. " I called hereabout
 well, let's see  last September two
years I believe it was, just before I went
to America. You know I've been to
America ?" he added, with an air of simple
importance which edified Wharton considerably.


No," she said, " I didn't know it."
Yes," Dadley went on, " I have though,
Mrs. Lorimer. I had a very jolly time.
A lot of sport. Everybody goes to the
Rocky Mountains to shoot now, you know.
It's quite the right thing. You've been, I
suppose?" he added, turning suddenly, with
an inquiring glance, to Wharton.

No," he answered quite slowly, fixing
his eyes meanwhile on Mr. Dadley's
boots. " I don't shoot ; and I always
avoid doing the right thing on principle.
It's a little  shall we say  unimaginative,
to do the right thing."

Wharton looked up at Elizabeth as he
said the last few words. There was something
of surprise and disappointment in
her expression ; and she did not seem to
hear what he was saying.

Mr. Dadley stared at the last speaker
for a minute with an air of slight bewilderment.
Then he seemed to conclude
that Wharton had intended to be amusing,
and laughed a little, in a civil perfunctory
manner.

But I was going to tell you, Mrs.
Lorimer," he said, turning again to Elizabeth,
" that when I called here before, you
were abroad then. And they said something
about illness, and I felt awfully sorry.
I hope you weren't ill, Mrs. Lorimer?"

The colour died out of Elizabeth's cheeks.

No, no," she said quickly. " It was
not I that was ill."

I'm uncommonly glad of that," remarked
Mr. Dadley.

He really looked quite relieved : but he
continued to turn questioning glances upon
Fred Wharton. The young squire seemed
to find something singularly perplexing in
the aspect of Elizabeth's other guest.

Wharton felt nettled by this inspection.
This man, he supposed, was some old
friend of Mrs. Lorimer's ; possibly a distant
cousin ;  perhaps they had played together
when they both wore short frocks
and pinafores  that thought was not
wholly palatable to him.  But they were
far enough apart now any way, and the
man, whoever he was, had no right to
presume upon his old acquaintance with
Mrs. Lorimer. His knowing her when
she wore pinafores  if he had done so 
by no means justified his staring, in that

unmitigated sort of fashion, at her present
friends.

Wharton moved away and sat down
in an arm-chair by the fireplace  the
same in which Elizabeth had sat when
Mr. Leeper expended all the powers of
his eloquence in trying to convert her to
the Cause and into Mrs. Leeper. Wharton
felt far from amiable ; two are company
and three are none. He had a very
distinct feeling that he was the third just
now. He began idly rearranging some
tall white narcissus blossoms, that stood
in a glass jar on a little table at his side.
The flowers were very sweet. Elizabeth
had filled all the vases and pots with them ;
and the air of the rooms was heavy and
faint with their perfume. If he must
needs be third, Wharton was determined
at least to appear unconscious of representing
that generally unwelcome member.
But as he leaned back in the arm-chair,
and, with half-closed eyes, watched his fair

hostess and the tall young squire, his irritation
grew stronger and stronger. Wharton
was generally very respectful and tender
towards all living things. The sight of a
flower lying, fading in the hot dust of the
street, among scraps of paper and rubbish,
caused him actual pain. This evening he
was possessed with a curiously vindictive
feeling ; and, as he noted every word and
motion of the white-robed Elizabeth and
that objectionable young man, he pulled
one or two narcissus blossoms to pieces, in
the most wanton and hard-hearted fashions
had moved across the room,
and seated herself rather wearily in a chair
on the other side of the fireplace, nearly
opposite to Wharton. Edward Dadley
having discovered a solid and somewhat
elevated seat, drew it up beside her and
sat down too, giving the legs of his trousers
a little hitch up just above the knee as he
did so, and asking a number of questions
regarding Claybrooke at the same time.

That's an awfully nice old house of
your uncle's, Mrs. Lorimer," he said. " I
was wonderfully fond of Claybrooke, you
know. I wanted my father not to sell
that little place of poor Aunt Maria's, but
he would do it. He's a capital fellow in
his way  my father," added Mr. Dadley
meditatively ; " but I always have thought
him awfully pigheaded."
 Elizabeth smiled faintly.

Yes, he is frightfully pigheaded," Dadley
went on, with an air of strong conviction.
" If he wants you to do a thing, he
never leaves you alone till it's done. Isn't
there something about a man bearing a
yoke in his youth ? Upon my word, Mrs.
Lorimer, that's just what I've had to do. I've
never had my own way yet about anything."

Edward Dadley leant a little towards
Elizabeth, and looked full at her as he said
this. Then he suddenly seemed to remember
Wharton's presence again, and cast a
sharp glance towards him.

Wharton happened to raise his eyes at
the moment, and they met Mr. Dadley's.
He felt singularly disagreeable. He gave
an insolent little yawn and said slowly 

I daresay it has been very good for
you."

It hasn't been pleasant any way," answered
Dadley shortly, and turned to
Elizabeth again.

Have any of those Harbage girls
married yet, Mrs. Lorimer?" he went on.
Poor old Harbage ! I used to feel awfully
sorry for him, you know. He really was
a very good old sort : but Mrs. Harbage
was an awful woman. It used to make
me perfectly sick to see the way she
crammed those wretched girls down every
man's throat ; and poor old Harbage used
to get so hot and miserable, and yet he
always did exactly what she told him.
That woman was a caution, you know."

Elizabeth smiled again.

Everything goes on just the same

VOL. II. O

down there," she said. " People never
seem to change at all in Midland-shire."


I wonder if the waggonette with the
canary-coloured body and wheels is going
still," said Dadley, laughing. " It was the
finest thing out to see poor old Harbage
driving that waggonette, with Mrs. Harbage
and all the little Harbages inside.
Then do you remember that dance at the
Adnitts' at Lowcote," he continued, throwing
himself back in his chair, sticking his
long legs straight out in front of him,
and tucking his fingers into his trousers
pockets. " What a nice dance that was.
I don't believe I've ever enjoyed a ball
so much since."

Edward Dadley paused and sighed, as
if the memories of that ball were really
almost too much for him.

Elizabeth was evidently trying to bestow
all her attention upon her guest. She
looked tired and pale : but she managed

to keep up a certain show of interest
in Mr. Dadley's numerous reminiscences.

Wharton, glancing across at her from
his arm-chair, felt more irritable than ever.
The conversation seemed to him in very
poor taste. The young squire's vocabulary
was lamentably small. Wharton
thought him rather a coarse-grained person.
It was unendurable to suppose that he
should be in any way connected with Mrs.
Lorimer's past life. Wharton pulled the
head, quite savagely, off a narcissus flower,
as if that was to blame in some mysterious
way for his present annoyances.

Do you remember," said Dadley
again, turning towards Elizabeth :  " Do
you remember, Mrs. Lorimer, the squire
took a little too much of his own champagne
at supper, and just as we were all
going away, he seized on poor, dear, old
Aunt Maria and dragged her out into the
middle of the room, and said we'd have
another Sir Roger ? Ton my word, you

know, I don't believe I ever laughed so
much in my life. Poor Aunt Maria was
in the most awful state. Ah ! that was a
good ball. Do you remember"  Wharton
began to loathe that phrase  " Charlie
Melvin wanted you to give him a second
valse, and you'd promised  all "

Mr. Dadley checked himself suddenly,
and cleared his throat, with a rather unsuccessful
attempt at indifference, while
he looked quickly across at Wharton
again. It seemed to strike him suddenly
that he might be going a little too far.

Wharton had given over pulling the
unfortunate flowers to pieces, and had
picked up a book. He was not reading ;
he was watching his companions quietly ;
and wondering whether it would not be
much wiser and more dignified just to
get up and go. He was evidently not
wanted ; his position was a little ridiculous ;
and yet there was something about Elizabeth's
appearance which made him very

anxious to stay. There was a strangely-blank
look on her face which he could
not understand. If she had merely
looked bored, he would have thought it
natural enough under the circumstances :
but she looked something more than
bored. Wharton had a conviction that a
good deal was going on around him that he
could not fathom at present. Then, Mrs.
Lorimer was going away tomorrow. He
put his dignity in his pocket, and decided
to remain.

I've never been back to Claybrooke
since," said Mr. Dadley, leaning towards
Elizabeth slightly as he spoke. " I've not
seen any of the people for years. But
sometimes I think, do you know, Mrs.
Lorimer, that I never enjoyed any time
in my life so much as those two winters."

Elizabeth's face flushed slightly. She
tried to smile : but the attempt was not a
very successful one.

There was an uncomfortable silence.

Dadley got up, and stood with his hands
behind him and his back to the mantelpiece
 giving a little kick with each foot
to settle his trousers down into their
proper place over his knees. He cleared
his throat again and looked at Wharton.

London's uncommonly full for the
time of year," he remarked.

"Oh  er  were you speaking to me?"
asked Fred Wharton, putting up his eyebrows
slightly and shutting his book.
Perhaps London is full," he added. " I
really don't know. It's not a subject I
have very carefully considered."

Edward Dadley contemplated the toes
of his shoes for a moment :  it is remarkable
how much inspiration a certain class
of men seem to derive from the contemplation
of their shoes. Then he
looked at Elizabeth for a minute, rather
regretfully. He was not an observant
person : but he was aware that he and
his companions were at sixes and sevens.

He was an honest - hearted fellow; he
believed that there was a mistake somewhere
; he feared that he was putting his
hostess in a false position. He gave a
little sigh, and then said 

Well, I'm going to settle down at last,
Mrs. Lorimer. You're such an old friend
that I should like you just to wish me good
luck, and all that sort of thing, you know."

He paused.

I'm going to be married ; I'm going
to marry my cousin. She's a good little

girl ; and " again Dadley paused.

I'm sure," he went on, with a sort of
rush, " if you should be coming up north
any time, and would look us up, I'm sure
I  I mean she, my cousin, you know 
bother it  my wife and I should be only
too happy to see you, and," he added,
looking towards Wharton, with a civil
smile, "your husband "

Elizabeth started up ; she gave a low
cry, as if in actual pain.

"Husband?" she cried. "My husband
? what do you mean ?"

Edward Dadley stared at her in utter
amazement. He made a motion towards
Wharton.

Why, Mr. Lorimer," he said.

Wharton had started up too, with a
smothered exclamation of a somewhat
violent order. Could anything be much
more disastrous, he thought, than to betaken
for the dead husband of the woman
you had more than half a mind to propose
to ? He would have spoken : but he was
absolutely dominated by the strength and
power of Elizabeth's emotion.

She stood there, looking like some
beautiful wild creature, which, hopeless of
escape, turns, with an agony of despair
and entreaty in its eyes, upon its pursuers.

"Ah!" she cried again passionately.
My husband ? You don't know what
you have said. You don't know what
you have done. And yet I ought to

thank you, for you have sloven me what
I really am. My husband ?" she stretched
out both hands and then let them fall
despairingly at her sides. " Ah ! God
help me !" she said.

There was a depth of sorrow in the
tones of her voice and in her gesture,
which filled both men with pity. But
Wharton, even in the midst of his pity,
was sensible of the artistic beauty of her
appearance. " What an effect on the
stage," he thought. Dadley was simply
and utterly distressed.

God bless my soul," he said distractedly,
"what have I done?"

Elizabeth could not control her voice
sufficiently to answer. She looked at
Wharton for a moment, and then turned
away.

Hush, hush," said Wharton, " haven't you
heard ?  don't you know ?"

He glanced at Elizabeth. He had a
horrible feeling that he was going to

wound or maim her in some way : but
there was no alternative.

"Mr. Lorimer died," he said very
quietly and clearly, " two years ago, in the
south of France."

God bless my soul," said Edward
Dadley again. " Nobody had told me.
I didn't know it."

The tears came into his eyes. He felt
he would have given five years off his life
which was certainly generous, for men of
Edward Dadley's type distinctly prefer this
world to the next  to have left those
unfortunate words unsaid. His old love
for Elizabeth had stirred very strongly
within him this evening. He was bound
in honour to the " good little girl " up in
the North : but he told himself sadly
that Mrs. Lorimer was the handsomest
and most attractive woman he had ever
known ; and he cursed the ill-luck which
had prevented his hearing that she was
free, till now, when he himself was bound.

CHAPTER X.

I fain would follow love, if that could be ;
I needs must follow death, who calls for me."

There is but one step from the sublime
to the ridiculous, and it is really a very
great relief to take that step sometimes.
So, at least, Fred Wharton felt, when, at
this awkward and uncomfortable period of
the evening, Mrs. Frank Lorimer rustled
into the room. He had been anathematising
her pretty freely in private during
the last month or six weeks : but on this
particular occasion he was disposed to
hail her advent as that of a veritable
angel of deliverance.

Mrs. Frank was in a state of the
most refreshing self-complacency. She
was wearing for the first time a new and

very elaborate gown that had arrived
from Paris the week before. She felt
wonderfully urbane, and equal to almost
any emergency. Her dress had a very
long train to it, which, when she walked
into the room and stopped suddenly in
front of her hostess, caused her husband
who was following her closely  no
small inconvenience. He had to perform
a series of rather undignified little
gymnastics in the background to avoid
falling over, or otherwise damaging, the
wilderness of lace and flounces which
barred his onward path.

My dear Elizabeth, how fearfully ill
you look !" exclaimed Mrs. Frank.

She glanced curiously at Wharton and
Dadley as she spoke. She had not
counted on finding three persons all looking
embarrassed and agitated. Two she
would not have minded finding in some
such condition, but three seemed to her
altogether one too many.

What have you been doing ?" she
asked.

There was an imploring expression
on Elizabeth's face which made her stop.
Fanny Lorimer had plenty of tact when
she chose to use it.

I suppose it's that white gown which
makes you so pale. You must pardon
my saying so, Elizabeth, but you know
white is trying if one's tired. And I daresay
you're dreadfully tired with all that
wretched packing.  I'm so glad to see
you again," she added, turning with a
charming little air of innocent pleasure
to Wharton. "We were beginning to be
quite nervous about you. I wanted to
apply to one of these offices, don't you
know, which are advertised in the daily
papers where they find missing friends
for you and all that sort of thing. I
hope you settled your business comfortably
before you left Sussex ? We
all felt so interested in it though we

hadn't the ghost of a notion what it
was."

You are too kind, Mrs. Lorimer," said
Wharton, bowing.

The angel of deliverance carried a
small sword apparently  still, sword or
no sword, she was welcome.

Frank had been too busy avoiding his
wife's train to take in any general impression
of the situation on first entering the
room. He saw that there was a stranger
present ; it seemed to him that both
Elizabeth and Wharton were silent and
constrained. Everybody looked rather
odd and confused, he thought : but it
really was no particular business of his.
Frank contented himself with stroking his
fair beard and wondering mildly whether
anything could be the matter.

Elizabeth introduced Edward Dadley
to her sister-in-law, and Mrs. Frank embarked
immediately in a lively conversation.
Mr. Dadley's powers in that line

*

were never very great, and at this moment
he was not a little disturbed, and was
consequently even below his average in
conversational ability. But Mrs. Frank
was so serenely self-satisfied, owing to her
Paris gown, that she would, I believe,
have been capable of carrying on a deeply
interesting conversation with a hydrocephalous
idiot if necessary.

Seeing that Dadley was safely provided
for, Elizabeth moved across the room to
speak to Frank, who was engaged in
welcoming Wharton back to civilised life
again, and in making inquiries about
Adolphus Carr and his charming house in
Sussex. As Elizabeth came up Wharton
turned away. He could not quite recover
his ease of manner in her presence, after the
very false position in which Edward Dadley's
unfortunate mistake had placed him.

"Mr. Wharton," said Elizabeth softly,
without looking at him, " will you dome
a kindness ?  will you go and play ?

It would be a relief, for I am too tired to
talk."

There was something graceful in this
appeal which touched Wharton. It meant,
he thought, that she wished him to understand
that she attached no blame to him
for the distressing scene that had just
taken place.

"Yes," he answered, quickly turning to
her. He was shocked by the pallor and
sadness of her face.

Wharton went away into the back
drawing-room and, settling himself at the
piano, began playing rather tumultuously
the first thing that came into his head.

I am afraid I can't talk, Frank," said
Elizabeth, sitting down wearily by him.
I suppose I'm overtired. My headaches
distractingly."

Frank looked down at her kindly. Her
appearance pained him. He wished he
could take care of her and do her some
little service in a quiet brotherly way.

"You're simply tired out," he said.
I don't half like your going off all alone
tomorrow without any of us."

Elizabeth smiled faintly.

I shall be better alone, I think," she
answered.

There was a long silence between them.
While Wharton went on playing,  slipping
from one thing into another with pleasant
readiness and ease ;  and while Mrs.
Frank discoursed to Dadley, who became
more and more filled with the conviction
that he was in the presence of " an awfully
clever woman,"  Elizabeth sat staring
straight in front of her, with her hands
lying clasped in her lap. She felt dazed
and stricken. The world had come to an
end, after all,  all she wanted now was to
keep herself steady and calm till they had
gone away, and she was left to herself
Wharton, playing on almost mechanically,
wandered at last into the accompaniment
of the song of love, and death, and part-vol.

II. p

ing, which Elizabeth had said he must sing
to her earlier in the evening. He remembered
himself immediately and changed
the motive : but the air had struck Elizabeth
at once. She recalled the words
only too clearly. She tried hard to
master herself. With a sort of desperate
gasp she put up one hand and
pushed the soft brown hair back from her
forehead.

Frank noticed the movement. He did
not know what was the matter with her :
but he grew a little frightened. He
thought she was going to cry, and of all
things he hated to see a woman crying.

We'd much better go and leave you
quiet," he said. " You are regularly
knocked up ; and you'll have to go off by
the seven o'clock express, I suppose, tomorrow."


If you go, please take them with you,"
said Elizabeth, with a motion of her hand
towards Dadley and Wharton.

X

Wharton was not so absorbed in his
music but that he managed to see pretty
clearly what was going forward in the
other room. He saw Frank get up and
go and speak to his wife, who turned to
Elizabeth and talked to her with a good
deal of vivacity for a minute or two, 
apparently she was offering a lot of good
advice regarding the next day's journey.
Then the two women kissed each
other with a pretty show of affection.
Edward Dadley shook hands with Elizabeth
and said something,  Wharton could
not quite hear what, but he thought he
recognised the word " awfully." Evidently
they were all going away. Wharton
played on, he hardly knew why.

When Frank had bidden Elizabeth
good-bye he came over to the piano, and
laid his hand on Wharton's shoulder.

We're going, my dear fellow," he said,
and you must come too. She is quite
knocked up, and I want her to be quiet."

Wharton got up with a hopeless feeling
upon him. It was a wretched ending to
a wretched evening. Everything had gone
against him. He had had no chance.

He went up to Elizabeth.

I suppose I must go too, Mrs. Lorimer
?" he said.

Elizabeth held out her hand to him.
There was a blank look on her face. She
tried to smile, but the smile died away
again and she did not speak.

Wharton went out of the room feeling
just a little mad ; he ran downstairs after
Frank, and began putting on his coat with
a considerable absence of his accustomed
composure ; he wanted to get out of the
house and be quit of it all.

I knew Mrs. Lorimer years ago down
at Claybrooke," Edward Dadley was saying
to Mrs. Frank, while he helped her,
with more gallantry than handiness, to
wrap herself in her fur cloak.
Ah yes," she answered.

She isn't a bit altered," added Dadley.

For some reason or other this observation
infuriated Wharton. It made him feel
wild. It seemed as if Elizabeth Lorimer
was being claimed by this man.

Martha had just opened the door, and
two cabs were waiting outside in the
dimly-lighted street. The night was cold
and chilly, with a drizzling rain.

Wharton came to a sudden desperate
determination. He began taking off his
overcoat again.

I've forgotten something I must say
to Mrs. Lorimer," he said, turning to
Frank. " Don't wait for me. I'll follow
you in five minutes."

Oh, my dear fellow, don't go back now,"
answered Frank Lorimer quickly. " Do
let her be quiet. She's tired to death."

I won't be long," Wharton said again.
I must just speak five words to her."

Frank would have protested further,
but his wife, who had watched this little

scene with lively feelings of interest, called
out to him rather impatiently : 

For pity's sake, make haste, Frank.
You and Mr. Wharton will have plenty of
other opportunities for conversation. Pray
don't keep me meditating for ever on this
wet doorstep !"

Edward Dadley laughed his company
laugh. He fancied Mr. Frank Lorimer
must get the worst of it sometimes.

Very reluctantly Frank followed his
wife, best gown and all, out to the cab.
The front door banged, the two cabs
rattled away in different directions, and
then Wharton made his way upstairs
again. He had a feeling that his conduct
was a little peculiar, that some people
might, not unjustly, accuse him of a want
of delicate feeling in going back thus
after having bid his hostess good-bye :
but Wharton had got to a point where he
cared very little what anybody might say
or think ; he only knew that there was an

absolute necessity upon him to see Elizabeth
Lorimer again.

The door of the back drawing-room
was standing half open on to the landing.
Wharton waited a moment to steady himself.
He was about to take the most
important step he had ever taken in his
life, and his old habit of looking calmly
at the situation reasserted itself.

The house was very quiet. As he
paused in the doorway he became aware
of a low sound in the air,  a sound not
very often heard in luxurious rooms amid
warmth and beauty and the sweet scent of
flowers, but a common enough sound, alas!
for all that. Wharton associated it with
dusky forms crouched down on doorsteps
at night, half seen by the passers-by
in the dingy gaslight ; or sad tattered
figures, loitering aimlessly at street corners
in the bleak mist and fog of dull gray
evenings. It was only the sound of a
woman sobbing ; and that not loudly 

sobbing quietly, as though hope was dead
and her own heart nearly broken.

Wharton waited a minute or two hoping
that the sobbing would cease, but it did
not do so. The sound became terrible, 
a perfect nightmare,  to him. He could
bear it no longer. He felt he ought to go
away, and yet the desire to see Elizabeth
once more grew stronger and stronger.
He pushed the door wide open and went
into the room.

Wharton had listened to the sound
which arrested his attention as he paused
in the doorway with considerable emotion
: but it had hardly prepared him for
the scene within.

Elizabeth had sunk down on to the
floor, near the big arm-chair in which
Wharton had sat so quietly nursing his
resentment against the obnoxious young
squire earlier in the evening. She was
in a half-kneeling half sitting position.
She had thrown her bare arms out, with a

passionate gesture, across the little black
wooden table at her side. Her face was
pressed down upon her two hands. The
vase of narcissus flowers was overturned,
and the pure white blossoms were scattered
on the carpet.

Wharton's first instinct was to retire.
He could hardly bring himself to look at
the usually quiet stately Elizabeth as she
lay there shaken with the storm of her
grief He had an idea that, except on
the stage, a woman's emotions should be as
carefully veiled as her form. It seemed
to him almost sacrilegious to permit
himself to see her now, when she had
thrown aside all conventional restraint,
and was laying bare her inmost heart in
the wild abandon of her sorrow. Wharton
had always cultivated a general spirit
of benevolence, but he had had very little
experience in the active art of consolation.
So bewildered was he by the situation in
which he found himself that he hardly

knew how to act. It seemed inhuman to
go away and leave her thus. He could
not do it. Yet if he stayed he was in
honour bound to let her know at once
that he was in the room.

Mrs. Lorimer," he said gently. " Mrs.
Lorimer."

The pains of birth are cruel, even
more cruel perhaps than those of death.
With bitter pangs and burning tears a
new and nobler life was being born within
Elizabeth. She had seen her old lover
again, and his own words had, in a
strangely vivid way, recalled the image of
her husband. For a moment the two
men had seemed to stand side by side.
Elizabeth had compared them and judged
them, and then turned away sick at heart.
All her past had risen up before her.
The but half-hearted courtship and marriage
; her own sense of bewilderment
amid the new conditions of her life ; the
haunting thoughts of the boy-lover whom

she had cared for with innocent girlish
fondness ; her husband's illness and death ;
her rebellion against God and against
sorrow ; her angry disdain of simple duty ;
her determination to over-live her trouble ;
her restless desire for amusement, and her
not wholly successful attempt at friendship,
 all these things came to her remembrance
and overwhelmed her.

She lay, in a very agony of contrition,
with her face pressed down upon her
hands,  in which she clutched the wooden
rosary,  when Wharton's voice suddenly
aroused her.

Elizabeth struggled up on to her feet.
As she did so Wharton saw that her face
was all marred and disfigured with crying.
The flowers she wore were crushed and
broken. They had made a great, dull, red
stain upon the bosom of her white dress.
There was something very hideous to
Wharton in that stain. He could not
take his eyes off it or forget it.

With a violent effort, Elizabeth controlled
her sobs and turned upon him haughtily.

Why are you here?" she said. " Why
have you come back in this way, without
any warning ?"

Wharton admired the fine courage with
which she tried to protect herself in her
extremity. He felt at a dreadful disadvantage.


Forgive me," he answered. " I could
not help myself. I was obliged to come
back. I have something I must say to
you, and this is my only chance since you
are going away tomorrow."

You must leave me," said Elizabeth
harshly, without looking at him. " I want
to be alone."

But Wharton felt he had gone too far
to turn back now.

It is impossible for me to leave you
in this condition," he said quietly. " As
your friend, Mrs. Lorimer, I have a right
to stay till you are calmer."

It will do no good," Elizabeth answered
bitterly. " You cannot help me ;
nobody can help me. I must bear my
trouble alone. People don't die of grief,
they say  or of repentance either, for that
matter," she added.

Still I shall stay," said Wharton.

A look of dead indifference settled
down on Elizabeth's face. If he would
stay, he must. After the first flash of
womanly anger had died away, she did
not really care very much whether he
stayed or not. She was so absorbed in
her own emotions that she was almost
unconscious of the presence of another
person. There was no trace of the
coquette about Elizabeth. She did not
pose : she simply felt.

She sat down in the arm-chair. Wharton
stood waiting. For some time there was
silence between them. At last he said : 

Mrs. Lorimer, this is dreadful. You
must tell me what has happened."

I cannot tell you," she answered,
speaking slowly and with some difficulty.
I cannot tell any one."

Then she added, after a minute or
two :  " I have had a terrible experience
to-night. Can you fancy what it is suddenly,
in a moment, to be filled utterly
with self-reproach ? To have built yourself
a fair dwelling-house, and in the time of
your utmost need to find that it is built on
the sand ? To see it crack and crumble
around you, to see it washed away forever,
while you stand homeless and desolate
? Oh ! Robert, Robert ! " she cried,
breaking suddenly into a wild passion of
grief. " Oh ! my darling, forgive me ! I
have tried to forget you. I have wanted
to fling all the past behind me. I have
wanted so desperately to be happy. You,
who have entered into that perfect peace
where all our miserable selfish desires and
jealousies fade away, forgive me, pardon
me!"

Elizabeth stood up. The flood-gates
were open, and, utterly regardless of Wharton's
presence, she poured forth her heart
in speech.

To-night," she went on, " I have learnt
the truth. Too late I have seen my fatal
mistake. I have looked back at my past
life ; I see that I have missed the meaning
of it all, and that self, self, nothing but
self, is written across every page of it. I
might have found fulness of joy in wedded
love ; bitter-sweet joy in mourning ; calm
and chastened joy in duty and obedience.
I have rejected it all. Ah ! believe me,"
she said, turning suddenly to him, " God
is merciful. He forgives. Soiled and
weary, but repentant, we may still creep
into heaven at last. But He is terribly
just. What we sow, that, and that only,
can we reap. I have sowed to myself,
and I reap the fruit of my sowing  sorrow,
emptiness, a fearful sense of waste.
Yet I cannot complain. It is bitter  no

one else can ever know how bitter : but
it is all my own doing, and it is only
just."

To Wharton there was something
almost sublime in this submission. He
thought of our Lady of Sorrow again ; and
could have kneeled down and worshipped
the woman who stood before him, crowned
with the glory and the anguish of her
utter self-abasement.

After a little time she looked up again.
All the hardness had melted out of her
face, and there was something very wistful
and tender in its expression.

"If I had only lived two or three
hundred years ago," she said, " I should
have gone away now and buried my
mistakes and repentance in some convent.
I should havput on coarse garments ;
have brought my body into subjection
with fasting and penance ; have hardened
my hands with labour, and "

Don't," cried Wharton suddenly, with

a shudder. " Pray don't, Mrs. Lorimer,
I can't stand this."

Elizabeth smiled faintly, but her lips
were tremulous.

"Why not?" she asked gently. "I
think, do you know, I" could be very peaceful
and contented in some quiet place,
where high walls shut out the world,
and where I might tend poor, old, sick
folk and teach little children. But this
is a mere fanciful dream, touched with
self-love again  I can't do this."

No, thank God, you can't," he said
under his breath.

I must do something, in a way, far
harder than this," she went on. " Something
quite commonplace and comfortable.
I must go back to Claybrooke tomorrow,
and try to please and comfort
those whom, in my selfish pride, I thrust
aside and scorned.  I have made a great
failure.  Now I shall be content with very
simple duties.  I shall be humble in future,

VOL II. Q

I think, and quite willing to take the
lowest room. There are better things in
life than happiness perhaps,  But it is
sad," she added, looking away, and speaking
more to herself than to him, "it is all
very sad. It is all over for me ;  and the
long years stretch out so gray and level
into the distance ;  and I shall be all
alone ;  and I am so young."

The last few words moved Wharton
strangely. She was very young ; and the
mystery and tragedy of it all seemed to
him infinite. As he looked at her in her
piteous beauty and sorrow, Wharton read
his own heart clear.  Friendship seemed
to him a very pale and intangible good ;
his philosophies took to themselves wings
and flew away ; all his doubts and
indecision resolved themselves into one
passionate desire. His face grew thin and
eager, and a great light came into his
eyes. He forgot everything else. He
only knew that, amid warmth, and light,

and the penetrating sweetness of flowers,
he was standing alone, face to face, with
the woman he loved.

Wharton threw back his head and took
a long deep breath. It seemed to him he
had never really lived till now.

Elizabeth was struck with the change
in his appearance ; it almost frightened
her. Instinctively she moved a step back.

Elizabeth, listen to me," he said, bending
towards her ; " listen  I love you. I
know that I love you. Look, dearest, I
know I am not worth very much. I have
been a light-minded frivolous creature
enough all my days. But I will love and
honour you ; I will serve you early and
late ; your lightest wish shall be my law.
I will be your very slave. I believe I
could make you very happy, Elizabeth 
only love me, darling," he said, " love me."

The young man's eager face, the words
of passionate tenderness and worship, were
very wonderful coming to Elizabeth at

this moment. She had sunk very low in
her own estimation, all her pride was
humbled in the dust  and now suddenly,
unexpectedly, came this offer of love and
protection.

Ah ! " she said, " how can I love you ?
I dare not love you after all the past."

We will forget all the past," he answered.
" We will both begin life anew
from to-night. The future is ours  only
love me, Elizabeth."

Do not despise poor Elizabeth if she
hesitated. She had taken but a few steps
along the rugged way of penitence and
self-denial that leads up  as we trust,  at
last, to the perfected glory and peace of
heaven. Saints and martyrs have paused
and turned pale at sight of that hard
stony road winding up the bare hillside.
What wonder if this delicate, weak, and
erring woman should cast longing backward
glances at the green pastures and
still waters in the valley below ? What

wonder if gentle companionship, if love,
and beauty, and common human joys,
should tempt her ?  if more tender hopes
even than these  hopes which like every
true woman she had cherished, and which
it had been her lot to see wither and die
should move her to give way ? Tiny
baby-hands seemed for a moment to press
about her bosom, and sweet baby-lips to
meet her own in clinging kisses.

With eyes dim with strange half-happy
tears, with a smile dawning again on her
pale and weary face, she stood looking at
her waiting lover.

Wharton thought he read her answer.

Elizabeth ! " he said, in a tone of
triumphant joy, and stretched out both
his hands with an impetuous gesture to
take hers.

As he did so the wooden rosary slipped
from her yielding fingers and fell with a
hard dry rattle on to the floor.

Wharton and Elizabeth started apart.

In moments of vivid excitement and
deep emotion a very small incident may-change
the course of feeling, and consequently
of events. That time-honoured
symbol of prayer, and penitence, and
humility, with its roughly-carved image
of the dying Saviour of mankind, seemed
suddenly to interpose an invisible, but
impenetrable barrier between the two
lovers.

Elizabeth was the first to speak. Her
voice sounded thin and far off, as though
it came from a great distance.

I cannot marry you," she said ; " I
belong to my dead husband."

A living love is better than a dead
love ! " cried Wharton fiercely.

The greatest love must die to gain
that which it loves," she answered, pointing
to the crucifix lying among the scattered
flowers.

Elizabeth," said Wharton desperately,
you dare not be so cruel. Through

my love for you I have found a new life.
Have you given me a soul merely to
damn it ? "

Elizabeth covered her face with her
hands. The temptation to yield to his
pleading was almost irresistible. It is so
difficult in the face of that which is seen
to cling to that which, though unseen, is
yet eternal. But Elizabeth had, at last,
perceived that through the wilderness of
this life there stretches a " more excellent
way;" and she dared not wander from it
in search of mere temporal happiness.

When she spoke again she was quite
still and calm.

You must go," she said. " God is
good ; He will guide us both. I cannot
marry you."

The last appeal of the civilised manlike
the first appeal of the savage, is, after
all, to the senses. As a drowning man
clutches at straws, so Wharton clutched
at his last chance. He came close to

Elizabeth, and looked her full in the
face.

I will go," he said : " but first you
must kiss me  only once, Elizabeth."

She flushed all rosy red : but she met
his eyes steadily.

You must go," she answered, " and I
will not kiss you, even once."

Wharton turned away sick at heart.

His old, easy-going, pleasant life seemed
shattered and broken, and at this moment
he had little enough hope that a better life
would rise from its ruins. The passion,
which had so suddenly developed within
him, left him bitter and unsatisfied. He
was going through those dark and troubled
waters which all the nobler natures among
us must struggle through, at least once, if
we are to learn anything real concerning
our own hearts and the world around us.
He knew that it was hopeless to try anymore
to move Elizabeth. He was weary
of the battle and the anguish.

Good-bye, Mrs. Lorimer," he said.
You have given me the greatest joys and
the greatest sorrows of my life."

Elizabeth could not trust herself to
answer. She merely gave him her hand.
He took it and, bending down, kissed it
lightly. Then he went slowly away.

Wharton looked back once. Elizabeth
stood, a tall, glimmering, white figure
among the fading narcissus flowers, with
sad, wide-open, gray eyes, and a dull red
stain upon her breast.

A few minutes later she had taken the
little sketch of Robert Lorimer from its
narrow resting-place in the writing-table
drawer. Perhaps there is no purer joy in
life, after all, than the joy of restitution.

CHAPTER XI.

' The true order of approaching to the things of love is
to use the beauties of earth as steps along which to
mount upward to that other beauty, rising from the
love of one to the love of two, and from the love of
two to the love of all fair forms, and from the love of
fair forms to fair deeds, and from fair deeds to fair
thoughts, till from fair thoughts he reaches on to the
thought of the Uncreated loveliness, and at last knows
what true beauty is."

The next morning Elizabeth and Martha
the latter not a little bewildered by
her mistress's sudden change of plans 
travelled down to Slowby. It was a bright
mild spring day. The wind blew softly
across the broad pastures, and the elm-buds
blushed red in the sunshine. Here
and there, the blossom of the blackthorn
still lay like a thin snow-wreath upon the
hedges. The larch-trees had put on their

dainty garment of green. In the spines
the ground was starred with white anemone
flowers, and the first primroses tempted
the village children to wander far afield,
between morning and afternoon school ;
while the cloud-shadows flitted lightly
across the face of the country, and the
lines of the distant woods looked infinitely
far and still in the clear atmosphere.

Elizabeth had telegraphed to Mr.
Mainwaring early in the morning. She
knew that telegrams were regarded with
small favour at the Rectory, as one of the
many superfluous and agitating developments
of modern civilisation. Respectable
and well-regulated persons should
always know their plans beforehand ; and
only in cases of the direst necessity should
they have recourse to this urgent, and
rather undignified, method of communicating
with their families. Mrs. Mainwaring
held that it is always vulgar to appear ina
hurry. But Elizabeth could not stop just

now to consider the possible effects of
her telegram upon her aunt's mind. She
wanted desperately to get away from
London at once. She dared not run the
risk of meeting Wharton again, and she
dreaded the thought of a catechism from
Fanny Lorimer concerning her sudden
change of plans.

She had grasped the idea of penance
with all the energy of her ardent nature,
and while the emotion was still strong
within her she felt a feverish desire to
break utterly with her past life, and to
make her peace with her aunt and uncle.
She was possessed with the passionate
longing for entire self-surrender that has
made torture and death an actual joy
to thousands. She was in love with a
new and exquisite ideal which had presented
itself to her; and she could neither
pause nor rest till she had made the offering
of herself complete. This is a somewhat
perilous state of feeling. It can

meet the rack or the stake with a splendid
courage : but it has a tendency to grow
rather thin, and tired, and acid, when the
crown of glory is not quickly awarded,
and when it is tested by the steady strain
of every day.

Claybrooke Rectory has always struck
me as a very composed place. It does
not look as if its inhabitants would ever
be the victims of overmuch spiritual exaltation.
There is a suggestion of kindly
and secure well-being about its warm
sober - colouring, solid masonry, quaint
gables and windows, and about its well-kept
lawns and gardens, which is certainly
soothing and reassuring. Some places
incline one instinctively to take comfortable
views of this world and the next ;
and dispose one to wonder whether, after
all, there is not a great deal to be said on
the side of the Universalists.

Rufus, the old brown retriever, roused
himself from a nap on the broad doorstep

as Elizabeth got out of the carriage. He
wagged his tail slowly, and smiled a lazy-welcome
to his former playmate : but he
did not feel it necessary to express anymore
active joy at her return. Rufus had
reached the time of life  common to
dogs and men alike  when warmth is the
greatest good, and cold the greatest evil, of
existence ; when no event is very surprising,
and the mind is willing to acquiesce
in any state of things short of actual
physical distress.

The softly radiant spring - day, the
stately calm of the house, and the old
dog sleeping his easy life away on the
sunny doorstep, formed a strange and
pathetic contrast to the rapid movements,
and worn eager face of the beautiful young
woman, who passed hastily indoors.

The Rector was out, and Mrs. Main-waring
was upstairs. They had not expected
Mrs. Lorimer till the afternoon
train  so said Bunton when he met

Elizabeth in the hall. He was slightly
put about, being unaccustomed to sudden
arrivals, and to that reversal of preconceived
ideas which they produce.

Elizabeth went swiftly upstairs, along
the dark wainscoted landing, and opened
the sitting-room door.

The scene within was very calm and
sweetly cheerful. The room, with its white
panelled walls and light curtains, seemed
full of sunshine. One of the windows
stood open, and a soft breeze  bearing
delicate scents of the fresh-turned earth,
of the springing grass and opening leaves,
came in at it, and gently stirred the
lappets of Mrs. Mainwaring's white lace
cap, as she sat quietly knitting by the fire.

There was something in this peaceful
little picture which affected Elizabeth
strongly. The imperative, almost hard,
expression died out of her face, and gave
place to a wistful tenderness.

Mrs. Mainwaring looked up as the door

opened. Her forehead contracted slightly,
and a pink flush came into her cheeks.

Elizabeth did not give her time either
to rise or speak, but walked quickly across
the room and knelt down on the hearth-rug
before her.

Aunt Susan," she said, and her voice
took the tones of entreaty, while her eyes
filled with tears, " I have been greatly to
blame. I left you two years ago in the
foolish pride of my heart : but I have been
punished. Since then I have learnt a
hard lesson. I have come back to ask
your forgiveness. I will be gentle and
patient, I will try my utmost to please
you,  I will be like your own daughter,
if you will only forgive me and let me
come home."

Elizabeth's little speech ended in a sob.

All the hungry unsatisfied mother-love
in Mrs. Mainwaring awoke and yearned
towards the fair woman before her. She
stayed neither to ask questions nor read a

moral. She merely put out both her
hands and drew the sweet weary head
down to rest upon her bosom.

My poor child," she said softly, " you
are very welcome home. Perhaps we
both have made mistakes in the past, but
we will forget them. It must only be a
question of love, not of forgiveness, between
you and me."

"Ah!" said Elizabeth, with a restful
sigh  like that of a little child, which,
having lost its way and wandered far and
wide, finds itself safe, at last, in its mother's
arms again  " Ah ! you do forgive me,
dear Aunt Susie ? I know I did wrong :
but I am sorry, and I am so very very
tired."

Mrs. Mainwaring stooped and kissed
her forehead.

Well then, darling, rest," she said.

It must be owned that the middles of
things are always rather trying. Begin-vol.
II. R

kings are full of hope and promise. We
have been disappointed many times before,
certainly : but, a fig for past disappointments!
 this time all will surely go straight.
Endings, though too often touched with
dissatisfaction and regret, still have a promise
of coming repose or change about
them, which is generally more or less
grateful. The morning and the evening
are romantic, and one can think of a hundred
and one pretty things to say concerning
them : but it argues a very strenuous
and active state of mind,  or a certain
quality of wholesome dulness in one's composition,
 if one can honestly sing the
praises of the middle-day.

The morning of poor Elizabeth's repentance
was strong and fresh. Nothing
seemed too hard for her to dare, too
difficult for her to undertake. But in
healthy natures spiritual development is
almost always gradual. There may be a
moment of sudden awakening, when the

head and heart alike are convinced of
error ; and the recognition of that error
may produce a lasting effect on the
character. But resignation and self-renunciation
cannot be perfected in a
moment. The perfecting of them is a
long and arduous process, during which
the poor soul, driven forth from its old
dwelling-place and fainting in the arid
wilderness, loses faith and courage at
times, and cries out with hungry longing
after the flesh-pots of its forsaken Egypt.

For a while the passionate feeling, born
of love to her dead husband and bitter
sorrow for her past wilfulness, supported
Elizabeth. The breaking wave carried
her far up the shore. But later, when the
first intensity of her feeling had subsided,
when mere emotion was required to crystallise
into steady habit, there came a
season of trial and danger,  a time of
what old devotional writers call " spiritual
dryness,"  in which she was tempted to

think her faults of Httle importance, and
her repentance exaggerated ; and when the
fair and stately ideal of the religious life
grew pale and misty to her tired eyes.

She struggled bravely, for she had a
noble spirit. She never quite lost her hold
of the deep truths which she had grasped :
but at times she was sad and restless,
and the way seemed very long, and the
burden very heavy. Victory is, too often,
a melancholy business, after all. The
battle may gallantly be fought and fairly
won ; yet afterwards there must be days
of anguish for the wounded, and of mourning
for the dead, and of heavy sorrow at
sight of the trampled fields and ruined
homesteads.

The promise is to those that " endure."
And notwithstanding depression and self-distrust
Elizabeth Lorimer did endure ;
and in time she was rewarded. She began,
at last, to know the inward peace which
springs from the absence of personal

desire, and the serenity which grows out
of true self-renunciation. In proportion
as she ceased to love her own narrow life,
she began to find a richer and wider life
in sympathy with those around her. Acts
of charity and of self-denial, which before
had appeared to her only as tiresome
obligations to her fellow creatures, now
became in a way sacramental,  symbols
of faithful obedience to God and loving
brotherhood with man. Elizabeth was
learning, slowly and painfully, to exchange
the love of her own fancies for the love of
certain Eternal Verities,  doubted, scorned,
pushed angrily aside by generation after
generation ; yet always abiding, patiently
reasserting themselves, ever ready to be
revealed in infinite sweetness and consolation
to the broken and contrite heart.

It may seem slightly eccentric to
describe the moral and spiritual experiences
of a modern young lady,  who
ministers to one's material wants at five

o'clock tea, and does not disdain to make
herself agreeable in ordinary society  in
terms which are usually reserved for the
delineation of a mediaeval saint. But
though the outward conditions and circumstances
change, the vital processes of
the human mind are very much alike in
the first century and in the nineteenth.
Given a certain type of character, its
mental history will be nearly the same
in every age.

It is certain, any way, that those who,
like myself, had the privilege of seeing
something of Mrs. Lorimer during the
months that followed her return to Clay-brooke,
perceived a very distinct change
in her.

Personally I must own to having been
a good deal occupied about Mrs. Lorimer
at this period ; though I am afraid she was
utterly indifferent to my sentimental condition,
 if, indeed, she was even aware of
its existence. She had lost some of her

queenliness, some of the rich bloom of her
early beauty : but, to me at least, she had
never appeared more captivating. There
was something in her face which reminded
one of the still purity of the open sky,
when the heavy storm-clouds are all rolled
away and the evening light spreads itself,
with a tender radiance, over the resting
land. There was a sweet reasonableness,
and a certain gracious humility, about her.
She was gentle and friendly, scorning no
little deeds of kindly service to those
around her.

The people of Claybrooke, who heretofore
had regarded her merely as Mr.
Mainwaring's heiress  as a young lady
whose position and personal charms created
a rather dramatic atmosphere about
her, the observation of which might afford
some innocent excitement to humbler
individuals  now began to reckon upon
her sure help and quick sympathy in all
their troubles. Instinctively men of her

own class treated her with the delicate
courtesy and reverence which it should
be the right of every wonaan to receive at
the hands of every man : but which it is
really a little difficult to accord to the
alarmingly vigorous, lawn-tennis-playing
damsels of the present day.

I do not doubt but that Mrs. Lorimer
had sad hours, lonely hours, hours of disappointment
and regret, that she was
annoyed, and disheartened, and distressed,
sometimes like the rest of us. In comparing
her to the saints, I am very far from
wishing to imply that she was faultless ; 
indeed, I am disposed to think, that if the
saints themselves had not made a good
many mistakes, at times, while they were
here on earth, there would be little enough
temptation to ask their prayers now that
they are safe in heaven. I would only say
that I believe Elizabeth,  like her noble
Thuringian namesake,  having once perceived
the deepest meaning of this life,

and having seen that "more excellent
way," walked along it steadfastly, with a
fine and simple courage, while the light
about her shone clearer and clearer towards
the perfect day.

If such things do not and cannot
happen, if lives cannot be so lived, then
indeed we are most miserable ; for the
fairest ideal of human attainment that has
ever been vouchsafed to poor struggling
men and women is, after all, but a delusion
and a lie.

CHAPTER XII.

Fear no more the heat o' the sun

Nor the furious winter's rages ;
Thou thy worldly task hast done,

Home art gone and ta'en thy wages :
Golden lads and girls all must,
As chimney sweepers, come to dust."

That summer was very wet,  it rained
in June, and in July, and right on into
September. At Claybrooke the stream,
from which the parish takes its name,
overflowed, and the low-lying lands in the
valley were more or less under water for
months. There was a good deal of illness
and fever about. The potatoes rotted in
the ground, and the wheat grew in the
shocks before it could be gathered in. In
our heavy clay country a wet summer is a
very nasty business.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Frank Lorimer, notwithstanding
Elizabeth's defection, held
stoutly to the plan of spending the summer
in Switzerland. Frank protested on the score
of expense and of the difficulty of taking
two small children such a long journey :
but, his wife having made up her mind, he,
as usual, ended by giving way. So by
the middle of August, the Frank Lorimerss
found themselves established in one of
those charming little towns that fringe
the northern shores of the Lake of Geneva,
with their rows of white houses.

Wharton had joined the party  he
would really have been at a loss to state
exactly why. His feelings towards Mrs.
Frank were certainly not of an ardently
affectionate nature : but he liked her husband.
Too he felt, deep down in his heart,
a sort of morose satisfaction in being with
Elizabeth Lorimer's relations, and in picking
up stray bits of information about her
from time to time.

A change had come over Wharton in
the last few months. He was more silent
and preoccupied, less cheery and expansive,
and he looked a good deal older. He
had been drawing hard lately; and intelligent
critics thought they perceived a new
quality in his work. It was less delicately
pretty, but stronger, and with more meaning
and directness of intention about it. One
or two people were good enough to prophesy
concerning him that he would still
make his mark. When some acquaintance
asked him, one day, how he had
come suddenly to make such a distinct
advance and improvement, he shrugged
his shoulders and answered, with a laugh 

Oh, you know, this child too has been
in hell ! "

The Frank Lorimerss were very prosperous
people. Things as a rule went
easily and pleasantly with them : but just
at this period they seemed to get a run of
bad luck.

The weather was almost as wet in
the beautiful Pays de Vaud " as at home
in England. A daily thunder-storm came
to be reckoned as regularly included in
the bill of fare. The children were poorly
and fretful ; and, as a very crown of
trouble, Frank managed, while doing
a little rudimentary mountaineering, to
slip on some loose rock and sprain his
ankle. It caused him acute pain at the
time, and obliged him to spend the best
part of a month on the sofa, swearing
mildly at foreign countries in general and
at mountainous countries in particular ;
and declaring that he, for his part, should
spend his next holiday at Margate, dine
at one o'clock, and have shrimps every
evening for tea, let Fanny say what she
liked.

On a certain Monday afternoon, while
the daily thunder-storm was cannonading
backwards and forwards among the hills,
the Lorimerss were trying to amuse themselves,

as well as they could, in their little
salon. It was a not very luxurious apartment
 possessed of solid furniture and a
superfluity of faded, red, Utrecht velvet 
on the second floor of the hotel : but it
had the charm of possessing, also, two
great French windows opening on to a
balcony, which commanded a splendid
view  when anything was to be seen.

Frank was lying on the sofa, grumbling
gently. To come abroad at considerable
expense, and then be laid up in this way,
was enough to turn even his amiable
nature a little sour. Mrs. Frank was
struggling to take a vital interest in a
Tauchnitz novel  concerning which she
had a horrid suspicion that the third
volume was lost,  and, alternately, listening
to hear if the baby " sounded happy "
with his nurse in the next room, and
admonishing Nini, who, bored and irritable
at being kept so much indoors,
seemed to be meditating unspeakable

atrocities upon the now-no-longer-new
collier with the pink hat." Fred Wharton
stood lazily at the open window, with his
hands in his pockets and his back to the
company, watching the progress of the
storm. He had developed rather a habit
of standing moodily doing nothing but
stare out of the window just lately.

The prospect was not a cheering one.
Across the lake, the mountains of Savoy
and of the Valais were sulking behind
heavy streaming masses of white mist.
Down towards Geneva there was a lurid
light in the sky, and the swiftly-moving
copper-coloured clouds were twisted and
contorted into a thousand weird fantastic
shapes. The broad lake, itself, was a
murky blue, with long zigzagged flaws
of livid gray, where the sudden gusts of
wind swept across the angry surface of
the water. In the foreground, Wharton
could see the waves dashing themselves
fitfully against the stone wall on the other

side of the roadway ; while great drops of
rain splashed and pattered on the broad
leaves of the pollarded plane-trees in the
garden just below. It was not an encouraging
outlook, certainly : but perhaps
Wharton was none the less in sympathy
with it on that account.

There was a knock at the door of the
salon.

E7ttrez ! " cried Mrs. Frank over her
shoulder.

Then, turning to the little girl on the
floor by her side, she said : 

Nini, my dear child, do have some sort
of compassion on that unfortunate doll.
You'll break its head right off, you know,
if you bang it down on the floor in that
way."

Nini looked up, with a very mutinous
little face, at her mother, and banged the
doll's head down again on the bare parquet
floor.

I hate this collier," she said petulantly.

she's SO old. I want to go out into the
garden and play."

Wharton turned round as the door
opened. It was only a hurried and
slightly distracted garon with a packet
of English letters.

None for you, Fred," said Frank Lorimer,
as he examined them slowly, before
proceeding to open them.

Wharton turned back to the window
again.

Good gracious ! " cried Frank all of a
sudden.

Why, what's the matter ? " asked his
wife. Almost any event would have been
a relief to her this afternoon, she felt so
unutterably bored.

Elizabeth's ill, down at Claybrooke,"
said Frank slowly, running his eyes over
the pages of the letter. " Old Mr. Main-waring
writes. They want me to go thereat
once'* ;

Wharton set his teeth rather hard, as he

VOL. II. S

watched the flaws of wind chasing each
other across the sullen face of the lake.
He remembered Elizabeth Lorimer as he
had seen her last, standing, pale and
patient, in her white dress among the
scattered flowers. He had told her once
that presentiments were silly things : but
he thought, with a sickening feeling of
dread, of the dull red stain upon her
bosom.

"Fanny, come here!" cried Frank
sharply. " Look here, this letter's a good
week old. It was sent to London, and
evidently it wasn't forwarded for several
days."

Fanny Lorimer moved quickly across
the room, and kneeling down by her
husband's side began reading the letter.

Anything may have happened by
this time," Frank said. " What on earth
am I to do ? "

Oh ! I'm afraid she is really very ill.
I am afraid it is serious," said Fanny

Lorimer in accents of genuine alarm and
distress. " I tell you what, Frank," she
went on, getting up and standing by
him with a pretty air of determination,
"I must go off to her at once, this very
evening."

Indeed you'll do nothing of the kind,"
he answered shortly.

Like a good many other people, Frank
had a habit of getting remarkably cross
when he was frightened.

"It's quite bad enough to have Elizabeth
catching a nasty fever, going and poking
about in beastly cottages, without your
rushing off to look after her and catching
it too. And I've not the least intention
of being left here, tied by the leg,
with a grumbling nurse and a couple of
naughty children on my hands, I can tell
you."

I'm sure the children are not particularly
naughty," answered Fanny Lorimer,
who in the very article of death would

have bustled up to defend the reputation
of the two babies.

I don't know what on earth to do,
though," said Frank despairingly.

Fred Wharton had turned round and
was standing with his back to the window.
He had formed a definite plan in his own
mind, but he wanted to propose it quietly ;
and make it appear the most natural and
obvious course in the world, both to himself
and to his companions.

He sauntered slowly up to the sofa.

One thing is certain, any way, Frank,"
he said quietly, " you can't travel."

I know," answered the other man dismally.
" I hope Fm not a great coward, you
know, but I really don't think I could."

And Mrs. Lorimer can't be spared,"
added Wharton ; " that's clear."

Fanny Lorimer glanced up at him
quickly. She held her own opinion as to
what had made Elizabeth suddenly retire to
Claybrooke, and Wharton become so silent

and moody. Even at this moment of real
trouble on her part,  for she was very
fond of Elizabeth,  she could not resist
trying to gain some hints regarding past
events from his manner and expression.

Wharton looked at her steadily ; there
was something rather hard and unpleasant
in his face, which made Fanny Lorimer
drop her eyes quickly on to the open letter
again.

If you write," he continued ; " it will
be at least five or six days before you get
any answer. If you telegraph you can't
explain all your reasons for not coming,
and they may not unreasonably think you
rather indifferent and unsympathetic." He
paused a minute. " I really think you'd
better let me go," he added. " I can
catch the evening train through to Paris.
You know I could go right on down to Clay-brooke
and telegraph you the real state of
the case."

"You really are the best fellow in the

world, Fred," said Frank Lorimer, his
face clearing up considerably. " I shall
be everlastingly grateful to you."

Whatever Fanny Lorimer's feelings may
have been, she hid them under a charming
smile of relief and gratitude, and made no
objection.

All that night, and through the next
day, as he travelled north  in noisy trains,
on the steamboat, and at crowded stations
Fred Wharton was haunted with a
vision of Elizabeth Lorimer, in her white
gown, with the rough rosary in her hands,
and the red stain upon her bosom. He
had a lurking terror of what he might hear
at the end of his journey; and, at the same
time, a wild hope that somehow he should
see her and plead with her, and that, this
time, she would yield to his pleading.
He knew, only too well, that he loved her
desperately, and he hoped on still against
hope.

Tired, haggard, and dirty, he arrived at

quiet little Slowby early on the second
day after leaving Switzerland. Hiring a
cab, he drove straight over to Claybrooke
by the broad, high-lying, main road. The
rain was falling in a steady downpour,
and all the distant country was blotted
out with impenetrable mist. When at
length he got to Claybrooke, Wharton left
his cab in the village street and walked
alone up to the house.

He could almost have cried out loud in
the intensity of his suspense, as he stood
waiting on the doorstep. When the butler
opened the door Wharton glanced at him
sharply. There was something odd, he
fancied, about the man's bearing and
manner.

Tell me," he said hoarsely, " how is
Mrs. Lorimer?"

Bunton stared at him for a moment ; he
seemed hardly to know how to answer.

Don't you know, sir ?" he asked slowly.
Haven't you heard ?"

No, no," cried Wharton impatiently.
Why, if I had heard, I shouldn't come
here now to ask."

Bunton waited a minute or two before
speaking. He looked back into the
great sombre hall behind him, and out
across the carriage-sweep, as though he
hoped that from somewhere somebody
would come and help him.

At last he said simply 

The funeral was yesterday at noon, sir."

Wharton threw up his two hands and
staggered back against the doorpost.

Good God," he said under his breath,
she is dead."

It was all over. He would never plead
with her and she would never yield to his
entreaties. The great black curtain had
been drawn between them for ever, and
he would never see her lovely face in this
world again.

Far away inside the house a door
banged. Then Wharton heard footsteps

in the garden, and a tall man with
straight clear-cut features and deep-set,
keen, gray eyes, in a long white mackintosh,
gaiters and shooting boots, came
slowly round the corner of the rambling
old house. Wharton knew directly that it
must be Mr. Mainwaring, from the subtle
likeness he bore to Elizabeth.

But Mr. Mainwaring had aged very
much since the afternoon that he rode
home, in the chill and dusk, from his long
day's hunting, seven months before. There
were deep lines about his mouth, as though
he had suffered some heavy sorrow which
had eaten into his very heart. He walked
with his head a little forward and his
shoulders somewhat bent. Leaping about
him were the two fox-terriers Billy and
Boxer. Evidently they had only just
been let out, and were in a state of frantic
joy.

"Get down, dogs, get down !" said Mr.
Mainwaring testily. " Can't you be quiet

for once in your lives, you senseless
brutes?"

Looking up, he caught sight of Wharton
in the doorway.

Who's that ?" he said sharply. " What's
the matter? Is the man ill ?"

At any other time Wharton would probably
have resented this somewhat uncourteous
address pretty strongly : but
now he was too broken down to care to
stand upon his dignity.

I have just heard some news from your
servant here," he said, " which has shocked
me inexpressibly."

Mr. Mainwaring paused and looked
at him. Wharton's personal appearance
was, naturally, not improved by his
long and hurried journey : but Mr. Main-waring
saw that, whatever his business
might be, he was undoubtedly a gentleman.


I come from Frank Lorimer," said
Wharton.

He ought to have come himself, long
ago," answered Mr. Mainwaring harshly.

They are abroad," said Wharton.
Your letter only reached them the day
before yesterday. Lorimer has had an
accident ; he is laid up, and it was impossible
for him to travel.  I knew Mrs.
Lorimer very well," he added, looking
Mr. Mainwaring full in the face. " I
offered to come here and telegraph the
latest news to them, but "

Wharton's voice grew husky ; he could
not manage to say any more.

Mr. Mainwaring turned away, and gazed
down the carriage-drive, through the dull
rain and mist.

You are too late, sir," he said.

I know it," Wharton answered, quietly
enough : but he felt that Mr. Mainwaring's
words cut right into his very heart.

All along he knew he had been just
that :  " too late." It made him nearly
mad to think it was possible  nay, even

probable,  that everything would have
ended so differently, but for his own
selfish and cowardly indecision ;  if he
had spoken, as he had been greatly
tempted to, when he met Elizabeth in
the windy twilight, that evening on the
Embankment His misfortune, he feared,
was pretty much of his own making. He
had no one to blame for it, after all,
except himself; and that reflection added
just the bitterest drop to the cup of his
sorrow. A sort of blind rage took possession
of him at the thought of all he had
lost. He turned suddenly and fiercely
upon Mr. Mainwaring, regardless of the
strangeness of their relative position.

But how did it happen?" he demanded.
Why was she ill ? What  what have
you all been doing?"

The two men were still standing on the
broad doorstep. Mr. Mainwaring had,
so far, made no proposal to Wharton to
come indoors. Mr. Mainwaring was not in

the habit of analysing his own sensations
very acutely : but he was sensible that
there was a certain dreary harmony between
his present state of mind and the dull soaking
day. And then, too, he felt unwilling
to take this stranger into the house, still
hushed and, in a way, sanctified by the
recent presence of death. Mr. Mainwaring
found this interview anything but pleasant.
He desired to cut it as short as
possible, and he thought it would be
easier to do so standing out there in the
wet. When Wharton's urgent reproachful
questions sounded in his ears, he
turned to the young man swiftly and
proudly. It seemed to him almost insolent,
and he felt disposed to make a
harsh rejoinder and cut the interview very
short indeed : but there was something
in the expression of Wharton's face that
arrested his attention.

Mr. Mainwaring looked at him keenly
for a minute or two, while his grieved

eyebrows contracted, and a straight line
cut itself, deep and sharp, into his forehead.
At last he answered quite calmly 

You tell me you knew my niece well,"
he said:  "very well then, you must
know that she was not easy to turn from
any purpose she took in hand. She was
a noble woman ; she was stubborn and
determined in carrying through that which
she believed to be right."

Wharton bowed. He felt that he had
spoken intemperately, and that his companion's
courtesy exceeded his deserts.

My niece," Mr. Mainwaring went on
slowly and doggedly, as though compelling
himself to speak  " was not one of those
dainty persons who are content to let their
religion walk in silver slippers ; who
plume themselves on being very much
distressed by suffering, while they do
nothing practical to lessen it. My niece
Elizabeth's virtues were not of the sentimental
and hysterical order."

Mr. Mainwaring paused a moment,
looked away, and then spoke again, with
the same quiet determination.

"We've had a very bad season," he
said. " There has been fever here, off and
on, all the summer, from the floods and
the wet. My wife and I wanted her 
wanted Elizabeth  to go away, and get
out of it all. But she wouldn't. She
wouldn't leave us and the people. She
chose to stay and work.  She comforted
those who were in trouble and nursed the
sick with her own hands. It was not a
very pleasant office," he added : " but she
went through with it all ; and behaved
like the gracious, and fearless, and godly
woman that she was."

Mr. Mainwaring drew himself up, and
looked at Wharton with a somewhat bitter
smile.

Verily she had her reward," he went
on. " She pulled a lot of cases through by
sheer pluck and patience. She was loved

and honoured by all. And then, one day,
she got a cold, or a chill, or something,
and she sickened herself, and "

Mr. Mainwaring's voice broke suddenly.

Now you know all I have to tell you,"
he added, after a minute or two.

Wharton had nothing to answer. He
stood looking on the ground, lost in a
maze of strange and painful reflections.
With Elizabeth, he felt, it must be well,
for she had fulfilled her highest ideal ;
and that, not aided by romantic and
sympathetic surroundings, in an atmosphere
charged with the spirit of sacred
devotion: but hardly, in the plain commonplace
life of a dull, little, Midlandshire
village. A clay soil, a wet summer, a bad
harvest, very ordinary, stolid, labouring
men and women ill with fever, a certain
determination to go her own way  call it
foolhardy or heroic, as you please  with a
background of solid comfort, secure prosperity,
calm respectability ;  these were

the curiously unexciting conditions of
Elizabeth Lorimer's martyrdom.

Thinking of the sweetness of her youthful
grace and beauty, and of her fate,
Wharton was filled with awe and bewilderment.
For a time his own personal sorrow
was swallowed up in wonder. He could
not understand it.

Suddenly he turned again to Mr.
Mainwaring, who had been watching him
in silence.

"What does it all mean?" he asked,
with a fierce desperation.

Mr. Mainwaring gave himself a sort of
shake.

Ah, young man, who shall answer you
that question?" he said. "Not I; nor
men far wiser than I am."

Mr. Mainwaring was not in the habit
of jumping at conclusions ; he was too
stately a person for that : but as he
stood watching his companion he had
arrived at a pretty distinct perception of

VOL. II. T

the situation. He came a step nearer, and
laid his hand quietly on Fred Wharton's
shoulder.

You loved my niece," he said in a low
voice.

"Ah God! how I did love her!" cried
Wharton passionately, stung into vivid
consciousness of the magnitude of his own
misery and desolation again.

Poor boy ! poor boy !" said Mr. Main-waring
gently.

His face was full of compassion ; yet he
could have found it in his heart to envy the
younger man the wild energy of his sorrow.

Mr. Mainwaring's grief was of a very
different complexion. It did not strive
or cry, it was patient and diy-eyed :
but he knew that it would rise early and
late take rest ; that it would make him
eat the bread of affliction and drink the
waters of bitterness, through all the coming
days and years, till his body should
be laid, there, in the quiet country churchyard

; and till his soul too should have
found its rest, at last, in the blessed calm
of " the land that is very far off."

In losing her I have lost everything,"
said Wharton in a despairing voice.

No, no," answered Mr. Mainwaring,
quickly and almost sternly ; " you have
not lost everything. Your faith is left
you as a Christian ; your honour is left
you as a gentleman ; your work of some
sort is left you too, I suppose ;  or if you
have no work it is easy enough to find
some,  there's plenty waiting to be done
on every side. You're very hard hit just
now : but remember you're not alone.
Sad things happen every day ; worse
things than have happened to you. Yes,
worse things even than death, and than
knowing you will never hold the woman
you love in your arms." He paused, and
then went on kindly  "After all, you
know, time is on your side. You are
young yet, and all the best of your life

may still be before you. A man at your
age gets over a blow like this with a few
ugly scars ; while a man of my age just
bleeds quietly to death."

Mr. Mainwaring smiled a little as he
said the last few words, and stuck out his
under lip.

Wharton stood fairly awed before the

strength which could smile thus radically

at its own suffering. It seemed to

pull him together somehow, and give him

courage to face the world again.

Thank you," he said simply.

The wind  which had risen considerably
in the course of the last hour, and promised
to clear the sky of clouds by mid-day, 
rushed through the swaying tree - tops,
dashed the drops from the glistening
laurels on either side the carriage-drive,
and cried and called plaintively round the
gables of the old sandstone house. There
was a little space of silence, between the
two men who, each in his own way, hid

SO truly loved one woman. Then Mr.
Mainwaring raised his hat, and standing
there, uncovered, in the driving rain, said
very calmly and reverently 

Ah, my dear little Lizzie ! God rest
her sweet soul !"

