CHAPTER I.

lOSA, the yellow girl, was sauntering
up and down the avenue
of tulip trees which formed
an approach of a quarter of a mile to
the plantation of Beauregard, in a very
discontented and sullen humour. She
was holding Maraquita's baby in her
arms, and she was dressed in her very
best. Her cotton gown was of the

VOL. III. A

deepest rose colour ; on her feet she
wore white stockings and prunella shoes
with sandals ; her long black curls  in
which she prided herself there was no
trace of negro crispness  were surmounted
by a handkerchief of bright
orange silk, which Miss Lizzie had given
her as a reward for her kindness to
her little charge. But what was the
good of it all ? thought Rosa ; what was
the use of wearing her gilt earrings
and her string of coral beads, when
there was no one to see them  not even
a coolie boy left on the plantation ? For
this was a general holiday. Not a hand
was to work, either in the coffee or sugar
fields, for it was Miss Maraquita's ,
and all the coloured people
were off to the Fort Church to witness
the ceremony. All, that is to say,
except poor Rosa. But Miss Lizzie

had refused to give her leave. She
had promised the yellow girl that she
would take charge of the baby in the
afternoon, and let her join the big
dinner that was to be given to all the
hands at sunset, and the dance that
would follow it, but she would not consent
to let her go to the church. Lizzie
had her own reasons for the denial 
Rosa might have been sure that she
would never have been unjust or unkind
to any one  but she did not choose to
tell them to her servant.

She thought it would scarcely be delicate
to let Rosa, who had the care of
the poor outcast baby, and was like
a second mother to it, form one of the
gaping crowd to see Maraquita married
to the Governor. It was something
too terrible to Lizzie to think that her
adopted sister could do this thing, and

she decided that herself and all who had
any part to bear in her sinful secret were
much better out of the way. So she
had condemned Rosa to remain in the
plantation with the infant, who was growing
quite a big child, and the yellow
girl was proportionately discontented.

There was a certain young Creole
called Juan who had been paying her
great attention lately, and whom she
entertained serious thoughts of marrying.
The silk handkerchief, the earrings,
and the coral beads had all been donned
for Juan's benefit, and now he was off
to the Fort with some other girl maybe
with Chloe, or Celeste, or Marie 
and she had to walk up and down this
stupid avenue with the baby in her
arms. Rosa could have shaken the
baby for keeping her from the much-coveted
spectacle.

As she was thinking over her disappointment,
Judy  Mammy Lila's granddaughter
 walked from behind a tall
bush, and confronted her.

Hill, Rosa ! ' she cried. ' Is dat
Missy Liz's baby ? My ! how dat grown ;
she's pretty heavy now, I guess.'

Judy was an ugly, cunning-looking
young negress, of perhaps fifteen  tall and
lanky and large-boned, with a propensity
for lying and thieving and everything that
was wrote.

Heavy ? ' echoed Rosa ; ' you may say
dat. She breaks my arm pretty well
carrying her all day long. But ain't you
going to the wedding, Judy ? It's most
time to be off. Don't I wish Fse going
too.'

Why ain't you going, Rosa, gal ?
Uncle More say dat will be de finest
sight ember seen in San Diego. And you

got your Sunday gown on too ! Why you
not go ?'

'Cause Missy Liz say no ; and I nebber
go back to her if I disobey ! But you're
going, Judy, sure ? '

No, Rosa! I'se got bad head dis morning,'
replied Judy, with a cunning look,
and her lean hand to her woolly hair, * and
I'se can't stand long walk. I'se better
stay here till de dinner-bell sound.'

Dere now ! ' cried Rosa, with vexation.
'Ain't dat a muddle? Why, I'd gib my
best earrings to be able to go. I shall
nebber forgive myself dat I not see Miss
Quita's wedding.'

You can see de carriages comines down
de drive ; and Miss Quita in her white
dress  all lace,' said Judy.

Dat ain't de ting ! But what you low
niggers know about grand folk's ways .'
I want to be one of de church company.

and hear de wedding ceremony,' replied
Rosa, mouthing the long word.

So you can, den, Rosa. Tes' gib de
chile to me, and I'll hold it till you come
back. Don't take no time to marry, you
know ; jest a few words, and it's allover
; and I won't leave dis place while
you're gone.'

Is dat a fac', Judy ? ' exclaimed the
yellow girl, with a brightening face.
Will you hold the baby whiles I gone ?
Den I'll keep my word, and you shall
hab de earrings, for you're the berry
pusson as I wanted to meet  dat's so ; '
and placing the infant in Judy's arms,
she disengaged the gilt trinkets from her
ears, and laid them in her hand. 'Judy,
you're a real good gal, and you won't stir
from dis avenue till I come back ; and if
you sees Miss Lizzie a-coming, you'll bolt
in bushes like rattlesnake ? Is dat so .'* '

Dat is so, Rosa. I'll keep her safe,
nebber fear. I likes nursing de babies,
and my head ain't good for muffin else
dis morning.'

I'll hurry back quick as I can directly
dat's over ! ' cried Rosa, as she darted
down the tulip tree avenue, in order to
reach the Fort before the carriages from
Beauregard.

As soon as she was out of sight, Judy
gave one look around to make sure she
was unobserved, and then dived with
the child into the thick bushes that
skirted the drive on either side. She
had not gone far before she was met
by Henri de Courcelles. He was dressed
much as usual, but he was looking very
pale and dissipated, and there was a
dark look about his eyes that seemed
as though he had been drinking hard,
or going without his natural rest. Ashe

encountered Judy, he accosted her
roughly.

So you've got the child ? '

Oh, yes, Massa Courcelles, and wit
berry little trouble. Rosa ses' mad to
go to wedding. She jump wit joy when
I tell her I'd hold de baby, and gib me
her best earrings into de bargain ; but I
promise I be back here when she return
from church, so massa won't be long
after her, eh ? '

You shall be back as soon as ever
it is possible : I promise you so much ;
but you must come with me to San
Diego. You don't suppose I'm going
to carry /la ? '

Massa please,' replied the coolie,
shrugging her shoulders ; ' all same tome.
I can tell Rosa anything,  dat I'se
too bad to walk, and took de baby to
my hut, eh ? '

I've no doubt you are equal to inventing
any number of lies to suit your
purpose ; but now you must follow me.'

De Courcelles led the way as he spoke by
many a devious path through the thicket,
until they reached the outer boundary
of the plantation, where he hustled Judy
and the child into a close carriage which
he had in waiting, and ordered the driver
to take them to the Fort.

Meanwhile, Maraquita, dressed in her
bridal robes of lace and orange blossoms,
and with a costly veil covering her to the
ground, stepped into the carriage which
was to convey her to church. The
vehicle had been re-painted for the
auspicious occasion, and re-lined with a
delicate silver grey brocade. The horses
were caparisoned in silver harness, with
large cockades of white ribbon at their
ears, and the coloured coachman and

footman in brand new liveries wore
large bouquets of white flowers in their
button-holes. Four or five other vehicles
followed that in which sat the bride between
her adoring parents, and contained
relations of the family, and intimate
friends who were staying in the house.
It was a trying ordeal for Mr and
Mrs Courtney, who were about to part
with the one blossom of their marriage-tree
; but though the father was nervous
and agitated, and the mother could not
prevent the tears rising to her eyes,
the brilliant position their daughter had.
attained for herself was the greatest
consideration in their minds, and outbalanced
any pain they may have felt
at the impending separation. Quita
herself felt overwhelmed at the knowledge
of her good fortune. She had so
dreaded lest something might occur to

mar her prospects, that she was almost
hysterical at the Idea that they were
about to be consummated. She turned
from one parent to the other in a
glow of expectation and triumph, which
flushed her usually pale cheeks, and lent
a fire to her eye, that made her truly
beautiful. As the carriage approached
the Fort, in which the English Church
was situated, they found the road lined
with eager faces, both white and coloured,
and a shout of welcome and congratulation
went up as soon as they appeared.
Sir Russell Johnstonee was in the church
porch waiting to receive his bride, and
it would have been difficult to find a
more lovely creature than stepped from
the carriage and stood before him,
trembling (as it appeared) with modesty
and maiden shame. The church was
crowded, every pew was filled with

friends and acquaintances carrying nosegays,
the aisles were lined with carries
grinning from ear to ear, the pillars
and rails were wreathed with flowers and
ferns. Never was there a prettier wedding,
nor a more auspicious one. As
Maraquita was led to the altar by her
father and mother, the organist commenced
to play, and the choir, who
had been practising for the last month,
sang a marriage hymn. Quita felt, for
the time being, as if she were about towed
the man of her choice, and had
no regrets to spare for a mistaken past.
The flowers, the melody, the congratulatory
looks by which she was surrounded,
appealed to her senses, until she was
ready to believe that she was worthy
of them. Henri de Courcelles had
no place whatever in her thoughts that
morning. Out of sight, was truly out

of mind with her shallow soul, and
she remembered nothing but that she
was about to become Lady Johnstonee,
and all the unmarried girls in San
Diego were envying her good luck.
She went through the service as calmly
as possible. Mrs Courtney sobbed
like a school-girl, her husband blew his
nose and changed his feet every minute,
and Sir Russell was visibly agitated.
Only the beautiful young bride made
her responses in an unfaltering voice,
and held up her face as soon as the
ceremony was over, to receive her
bridegroom's kiss, as quietly as if she
had been married for ten years. It was
over then, and there was nothing more
to do but to sign her name in the
register, and go forth to take her place
in a world which seemed strewn with
roses, and in which no inconvenient

memories should rise up to trouble
her. The organ pealed forth the
wedding march. Sir Russell extended
his arm for her acceptance, and Mara-multa
realised that at last she really
was his wife, and no one could deprive
her of the position he had bestowed
upon her. She beamed with
smiles of satisfaction as she walked
down the aisle on her husband's arm,
returning the bows on either side,
and treading on the roses, and lilies,
and myrtle strewn by the children in
her path. Sir Russell's carriage, with
its four horses and outriders, and its
stately guard of honour, was waiting
to receive her, and take her back to
her fathers house for breakfast, and
her heart swelled with pride as she
caught sight of it, beyond the crowd
that clustered round the church door

and steps, and threatened to impede
her way. But she had hardly placed
her foot on the red carpet that had
been laid down for her accommodation,
when her eye fell on a group that
riveted her to the spot, and almost
made her breath stop,  a group that
seemed to rise up as it were from the
very earth itself, like a Nemesis, to rob
her of her joy. Maraquita stared at
it as if she were turning to stone, while
her face grew deadly pale, and her
limbs tottered under her. Her first
impulse had been to scream, but the
strong instinct of self-preservation inherent
in every nature prevented her,
and the effort to restrain herself resulted
in her falling suddenly from Sir
Russell's support, and sinking to the
ground in a dead faint. A dozen
people were round her in a moment.

Some declared it must be the heat 
others, the excitement and fatigue 
only one person amongst them all, and
that was her mother, Mrs Courtney,
discovered the real cause of her
daughter's emotion. She had come
upon the scene in time to see the
dark handsome face of Henri de Courcelles
glaring like that of an avenging
angel above the crowd, whilst in his
arms he held up high on view his
infant. She had cowered herself beneath
the sight  no wonder it had
affected her poor Maraquita. In a
commanding voice she had desired the
church peons to disperse the crowd,
and when the bride was sufficiently recovered
to be taken to her carriage,
no one was left to molest her. One
anxious despairing look passed between
her mother and herself, but a hurried

VOL. III. B

whisper from Mrs Courtney somewhat
reassured her, and by the time they
reached Beauregard, Maraquita was to
all appearances herself again. But only
to the view of strangers, for long after
she had left San Diego, and the Government
steamer was conveying Sir Russell
and Lady Johnstonee to a sister island
to spend their honeymoon, she sat
with her large dark eyes staring out
into the star-bespangled night, in which
she saw nothing but the picture of a
man's face, full of hate and frenzy and
revenge,  of a man who held a little
infant in his arms. And as she thought
of it. Lady Johnstonee felt the tears
roll down her face (as they should not
have rolled down the face of a newly-wedded
woman), in memory of a past
which she hated and loved, and longed-for
and dreaded, all at the same time.

UGH NORRIS had not been
; slow to avail himself of Lizzie's

 . .  . 1 TT

permission to visit her. He
had knocked about a good deal in the
world, and he had seen all sorts and
conditions of women, but he had never
met any one to interest him, and hold
his sympathies, like the Doctor's daughter.
It was not only that she was firm and
sweet in temper, and strong in mind, and
clever and energetic  there was a more
binding tie between them than that.
They thought together ; and if men and

women would realise that kindred tastes
and ideas form the only lasting bond
between friends, there would be fewer
unhappy marriages than there are.
There is a great deal of talk heard on
occasions about the happiness of surrendering
one's opinions in deference to
those of the person one loves, but that
notion is only believed in by the men
who wish to be master, and ride roughshod
over their household gods. To
surrender is to give up one's mental
and moral liberty, and there may be
duty in bondage, but there can be
no pleasure. Marriage should be the
cementing of a friendship between the
sexes, and it is the only safe light by
which to regard it. There should be
plenty of giving in it, but no giving up !
And Captain N orris felt that if lizzie
Fellows could learn to regard him ashe

did her, there would be very few jars
in their domestic manage. He had been
detained in San Diesfo much looser than
he had anticipated. Just as he got his
cargo on board, and was ready to start,
a serious damage had been discovered
in the Trevelyan, and he had been compelled
to send her into dock for repairs.
Although the delay meant a considerable
loss of money to him, Captain Norris
did not regret it. He did not feel easy,
in common with many of the residents,
with regard to the safety of the island ;
and to leave Lizzie in possible danger,
surrounded by a horde of mutinous
coolies, and without the possibility of
obtaining news of her for months together,
would have been a sore trial to
him. He would have taken her with
him gladly as his wife, or as an ordinary
passenger, but he knew her character

too well to propose it. Had she been
affianced to him, and danger threatened
her benefactor and his family, she would
have died with them, sooner than desert
them in the time of uncertainty. And
uncertainty seemed to prevail in San
Diego. Grave muttering were heard
on every side of averted rebellions and
suppressed mutinies, and the planters
knew that it needed but the necessary
boldness on the part of one set of
hands to rise, to set the whole necrro
population aflame with the lust for rapine
and murder. Sir Russell Johnstonee was
not a favourite amongst them, for he
disliked the coloured people, and had
passed some very harsh sentences on
the prisoners brought up to him for
judgment, and his name was seldom
mentioned without an execration attached
to it. The hands on Beauregard had

not shown discontent beyond the ordinary
grumbling and small impertinences
common amongst the coolies ; but Hugh
Norris knew the character of the people
well, and he distrusted them. He remembered
how in former mutinies, both
in the East and West Indies, the actual
fight for the supremacy had been preceded
for a long time by half-suppressed
murmurs and complaints, like the muttering
of the elements before a tempest,
and that, when the storm broke, it
came like a clap of thunder, suddenly
and unexpectedly, and overwhelmed its
victims before they were hardly aware
of the danger they incurred. So he
was glad than otherwise to be detained
in San Diego, though what he heard
and saw there did not tend to reassure
him. He was present at Maraquita's
wedding, being a friend both of Sir

Russell Johnstonee and the Courtneys ;
but he declined the invitation to the
breakfast, both because he disliked such
festivities, and that Lizzie Fellows, he
knew, would not be there. But on the
evening of the same day he strolled
into her bungalow, and seated himself
without ceremony like an old
friend.

So, Lizzie,' he commenced, ' you were
not present at the grand wedding this
morning ? '

No. I asked them to excuse me,
Captain N orris. My dear father's recent
death renders it very unfit that I should
mix in any gaiety.'

But your adopted sister's marriage,
Lizzie! Surely that was an occasion on
which you might have relaxed your strict
seclusion ? '

He had marked the coolness which had

separated Lizzie of late from Mrs Courtney
and her daughter, and he had his
own suspicions on the subject ; but he
had not presumed to put them into
words.

They didn't think so. They were
quite satisfied to let me follow my own
wishes replied the girl quietly.

And how is your nurse-child ? Thriving?'


Lizzie's eyes sparkled.

Beautifully, thank you. She is growing
such a dear little creature, and knows
me as well as possible.'

Have you had her baptised ? '

How strange you should ask me that
question,' remarked Lizzie thoughtfully,
looking up from her work. * It is the
very thing I was about to consult you
on ! How often we seem to have the
same ideas at the same moment ! I think

you must be a wizard, and read my
thoughts ! '

It is because we are so much in
sympathy with each other, \J\z7a. But
what about the mysterious baby ? Have
you decided on the name you will call
her?'

No ; I have never troubled my head
about it. Any name will do.'

Oh, poor little lady ! let us give
her a pretty one whilst we are about it.
Why not call her after yourself ? '

Lizzie shrank from the idea.

Oh, no ! She has nothing to do
with me. Please suggest something
else.'

Poor mite ! she seems to have nothings
to do with anyone. She is a little blot
upon the universe. But she is God's
own child. Suppose we call her after
His mother.'

'Mary! Yes, I like that idea. What
is your mother's name, Captain N orris ? '

The same. I was thinking partly of
her when I spoke.*

Then I shall like the name doubly
for her sake. I am sure she must be a
good woman, to have borne such a son
as you are.'

I am afraid that is not much recommendation
for her, Lizzie,' returned Hugh
Norris, laughing. * But she is a good
woman  the best woman I have ever
known  for all that. And how she would
love you ! How I wish you knew her :
you would get on so well together.'

/ How can you tell that ? '

Because you have the same tastes.
My mother is quite a doctor in her way;
and all the country people believe in her
immensely. Only she is a herbalist, and
does not approve of strong drugs. Since

my father died, and her sons have gone
out into the world, she has Heed alone
in a cottage in the sweetest spot of Kent
you have ever seen ; and she is beloved
of the whole country-side. But I wish
there was some one to live with her, now
she is getting old. She has never had a
daughter, my dear old mother! How she
would love and cherish one ! '

How many brothers have you ? ' asked
Lizzie, trying to run away from the
dangerous subject.

Two, George and Frederick. George
is in the Indian Army, and has been out
in Bengal for the last five years ; and
Fred is in business in London. He goes
down to see mother every now and then ;
but they are only flying visits, and she
must feel very lonely at times.'

'Yes, very! How often do you see
her?'

Every few months, as a rule ; but my
time in England is necessarily short.
If I had a wife  ' said Captain N orris,
and there stopped.

'Well,' remarked Lizzie encouragingly,
' what then ? '

I was going to say that (with her
permission, of course) I shouldn't be
entirely selfish : I should leave her behind
me some voyages, that she might keep
my mother company. It wouldn't be for
long, perhaps, for I hope to get work
on shore some day  I shouldn't like to
spend all my life roving about like this,
without any settled home.'

But it must be glorious to sail about
all over the world, and see so many
new countries ! ' cried Lizzie, with kindling
eyes.'

It is, whilst a man is young and independent,
and has no ties to pull at

his heart-strings. You would enjoy it,
Lizzie, I am sure. Your free and energetic
spirit would be quite in accord
with the unfettered elements, and you
would glory in seeing them circumvented
(for mastered they can never be) by the
ingenuity or prevision of men.'

Yes, I should like it, I am sure. It
is the sort of life that would carry one
out of oneself, and make one almost forget
how much falsehood and wickedness
and ingratitude hold their place amongst
men. To be out on the open sea from
morning to night, and to know for
certain that no one who has injured or
disappointed you can follow you there,
and that you are alone with God and
your own thoughts  it must be a kind
of little heaven in itself, if  if  '

If what, Lizzie ? ' demanded Hugh
N orris eagerly.

If one went with the person one
loved,' she replied, with a slight increase
of colour.

Let us talk of the baby  of little
Mary,' he said impatiently. ' When
shall we have her christened ? '

Any day, if you will be her godfather,
and share the responsibility of her with
me.'

'Willingly. As she is to bear my
mother's name, I consider it incumbent
on me to do so. But, Lizzie, have you
taken my advice about this child } Have
you appealed to her parents to lift the
burden they have laid upon you, by
at least a partial confession of their
error ? '

I have,' she answered, in a low voice.

And they refused } '

I only saw the mother, and she
denied all knowledge of her child. The

the  other parent I could not speak

to.'

You know the names of both of
them then.'

She bowed her head In silence.

Lizzie, I think I have guessed your
secret, or at least part of it. The father
of this infant is Henri de Courcelles.'

What should make you say that,
Captain N orris ? ' she exclaimed, in a tone
of alarm.

The hesitation in your voice when you
alluded to him ; but I have had my suspicions
of it before now. And shall I tell
you the name of the mother who has left
you to bear the burden of her shameful
secret ? '

No, no, Captain N orris,' cried Lizzie,
springing from her chair ; ' you must not
say it ! I will not hear it ! You are mistaken
! It is not true ! Oh, my dear

friend,' she continued, laying her hand
upon his arm, ' think  think what you are
doing. The honour of a whole family is
involved in your discovery. Be silent.
Keep the secret sacred, as I do, for God's
sake.'

And what about the honour of the
woman I love ? ' he asked tenderly, as he
looked into her face ; ' am I not to think
ofthat.'

If you love her,' replied Lizzie, blushing,
you must know that her honour is safe.
But for the other  so young  so weak  '

So unprincipled  so false, you mean ! '
said Hugh Norris indignantly. 'Well, it
will come home to her some day, see if it
does not.'

But never through my means,' said
Lizzie.

No, not through you, my angel, but
God will take care of His own. You will

VOL. III. c

not always live under this cloud. You

would leave It behind you tomorrow, if

you would but consent to be my honoured

wife

Not while it hangs over me,' she
whispered.

And afterwards  '

Ah, Captain Norris, do not ask me !
You are my best and truest friend, and
the man who would make me happier than
any one else in the world. I quite believe
that. I say it after calm deliberation, and
a careful investigation of your character.
But I am not in a position to marry anyone,
and I never may be. Leave it to the
future. If I am ever free, and you are
still of the same mind, I will answer the
question you ask me to-day.*

And I will live on that promise, Lizzie,'
replied Hugh Norris, 'for I feel the time
of your release is not far off. If you

persist in sacrificing yourself for the sake
of your oath, your friends are not bound to
see you do it, without making an effort in
your behalf. But I have something to say
to you before I go. Will you be very
careful of yourself, for my sake ? '

In what way?' she asked, with open
eyes. ' The fever is nearly passed ; and if
it had not done so, I am fever-proof.'

There is a worse pestilence abroad than
the fever, Lizzie,  a lust for murder, and
rapine, and insubordination. The negroes
are ripe for rebellion, and if there should
be an insurrection, there may be fire and
bloodshed.'

Oh, they will never hurt me ! ' replied
Lizzie, with a confident smile.

My dear, when the thirst for blood
gets possession of a mob, infuriated by a
sense of wrong, they do not stay to distinguish
friends from foes. I feel uneasy

that you should stay in this bungalow
alone, Lizzie, with no better protection
than Rosa. It is not safe. Do you bar
your doors and windows at night ? '

bar my doors and windows ? ' repeated
Lizzie, with a smile. ' Why, Captain
Norris, they stand open night and day ;
and I don't believe there is a fastening
to any one of them. The coolies would
indeed think I had crone out of mv mind,
if they saw me bolting myself in from fear
of them.'

But I don't like it,' said Hugh Norris,
with a sigh. ' I have witnessed several
mutinies, Lizzie ; and if there should bea
grudge borne against you by one person
only, it may be sufficient to incense
the entire mob. Suppose they were to
fire your bungalow, and destroy all your
property ? '

Captain Norris, do you really think it

is so likely to occur ? ' demanded Lizzie,
struck by the portentous gravity of her
friend.

I do indeed, or I should not caution
you.'

Then they may injure the White
House, or do some harm to Mr and
Mrs Courtney ! ' she exclaimed in alarm.
Should you not warn skein ? They
are of far more importance than myself.'


*I won't allow that; but Mr Courtney,
at least, is aware of the danger. The
planters have held a meeting on the subject,
with a view to inquiring into the
coolies' fancied wrongs, but not, I understand,
with any satisfactory results. In
fact, they can't make out what it is they
do want, and I don't think the carries
know themselves. Only the demons of
distrust and discontent are stalking abroad,

and it behoves every white man to be

extra careful.'

Suppose they were to hurt Mara-quite,'
suggested Lizzie, with a shudder.
She is not a favourite amongst them,
poor child, I know.'

And will be none the more for having
married the Governor ; for the coloured
population have taken a strong dislike to
Sir Russell Johnstonee, as the discovered
plots against Government House plainly
show. However, she will have every
protection that the military forces can
give her, and you have none. It is of
you that I am thinking, hlzzle. I wish

I could persuade you to leave this bungalow,
and go and stay in the Fort till the
danger is over.'

Oh, dear no ! That is quite impossible.
What, run away from my patients,
and leave them to die, for fear lest some

of the men amongst whom I have grownup
might turn against me ? Captain
Norris, you cannot think what you are
asking me. Indeed, I have no fear 
not the slightest. These cooHes love me
I know they do  and would die forme
sooner than harm a hair of my
head.'

Perhaps so, Lizzie ; though I have not
much faith in any coloured people. But
you have the coolies of other plantations
to guard against. They do not confine
their attacks to their employers' property.
If the hands on Miners' Gulch or Sans
Souci, or any other estate, were to rise,
they might make a raid on Beauregard.
Now, do you understand the danger you
may be in ? '

Yes,' replied Lizzie thoughtfully ; ' I
had not considered that. I will ask Mr
Courtney if old Peter or William Hall

may sleep at the bungalow for the future,
though I do not think they will be much
protection. But I am not afraid,  indeed
I am not'

You are the most courageous woman
I have ever met,' replied Captain Norris.
I don't believe you are afraid of anything.'


Except of injuring those who have
been good to me,' she said, somewhat
timidly. * Captain Norris, there is something
on my mind that I feel bound to
mention to you. My name is not Fellows,
and I don't know what my real
name is.'

Are you not the Doctor's daughter,
then ? ' he demanded, in surprise.

Oh, yes, and though it may astonish
you hereafter to remember I said so, I
would not give up the knowledge that I
am his daughter for all the world. Poor

father ! He was so unhappy, so unfortunate,
so erring. His soul was purified
like that of an angel by the suffering he
passed through.'

Pardon me, Lizzie, but did I hear
aright when you said your father was
erring ? '

Yes, Captain N orris, erring beyond
the generality of men. I should not have
mentioned it to you, except for the kind
sentiments you have expressed towards
me this evening, and which make me
feel that, before they go further, you have
a right to know all. The week before
he died, my father made a communication
to me which I had never heard before,
and which he forbade me to repeat
during his lifetime. His death has, of
course, released me from that duty, and
I am sure that he would have wished
you, of all men, to be acquainted with

the truth. But I am afraid that it will
shock you terribly, Captain N orris, to
hear that my poor father was a criminal
in hiding from the law, and, except for
the goodness of Mr Courtney, he would
have suffered the penalty of transportation.
This was the secret of the great
friendship between them, and why my
father changed his name, to prevent his
retreat from being discovered.'

And yet Mr Courtney remained his
friend to his life's end. How good a
man your father must have been, Lizzie
(but for this youthful error), that his
conduct had no power to separate him
from the person who knew and loved
him best.'

Ah, that is how / look at it ! ' cried
Lizzie, seizing his hand, and bursting
into tears ; * but I hardly expected to
hear so generous a judgment from your

lips. If suffering, and repentance, and a
desire to make amendment, can atone
for a man's sin, I believe my poor father
fully expiated his. He was an exile from
all his relations, and lived under an assumed
name, with no one but myself fora
companion, and his profession for occupation.
I am not aware if I sprung
from the gutter, or came of a decent
family. All I know is that I am called
Elizabeth Fellows, and that, although
guiltless myself, I am not a fit wife for
any honest or honourable man.'

You shall not speak to me like that,'
exclaimed Hugh Norris indignantly, ' for
it is not true ! You are fit, in your own
sweet self, to mate with the best man
that ever lived ; and I consider you as
far above me as the stars are above the
earth. But I think you should ascertain
your real name, and who your relations

are. Your father is gone, Lizzie. The
discovery can never hurt him now, and
there is no saying how much benefit
it may prove to you. Cannot Mr Courtney
give you the necessary information
? '

I believe he can, but I have shrunk
from asking him. This terrible scandal
about me  '

Don't let that prevent you. Be your
own brave self, and meet the calumny
as it deserves. Take my advice, Lizzie,
and demand an explanation from Mr
Courtney as soon as possible. Life is
uncertain, you know, and he might die
before you have ascertained the truth
about yourself. Then you might never
hear it.'

He will be surprised to find me
asking questions about which I have
shown no curiosity for so many years.

He will wonder what can have put it
into my head.'

Hugh N orris drew nearer to her, and
seized her hand.

Say you are engaged to be married
to me, and that you consider I have
a right to know everything concerning
yourself.'

 But that would not be true.'

Make it true, then. It lies with you
to do so.'

No, Captain Norris,' she replied
gently, withdrawing her hand from his.
I cannot  at least just yet. Give mea
little time to recover myself. Remember
that but a few weeks back I considered
myself betrothed to Monsieur de
Courcelles.'

*And you love him still,' he answered
roughly, in his disappointment.

No, no, I do not ! I despise him for

his falsehood and treachery, and for his
despicable conduct in trying to evade the
consequences of his own fault, at the expense
of the character of the woman he
once professed to love. If there were
not another man in all the world, I would
never place myself again under the yoke of
Henri de Courcelles. But to engage myself
so soon to you  it would be hardly decent

Have your own way then,' replied
Hugh Norris, as he rose from his seat, and
took his cap in his hand. ' I have asked
you for the third time, and failed. I shall
begin to disbelieve in my good luck. It
evidently doesn't lie in an uneven number.'

There are such slight intervals between
your asking,' said Lizzie, laughing.
But she ceased to laugh when she
found herself alone.

The honest, disinterested love of Hugh
Norris was beginning to work its way

into her heart, and heal the wounds
made by the other's defalcation. She
would have liked to call him back and
tell him that she would follow the dictates
of her feelings, and give him his answer
at once, without any regard to the dictum
of the world ; but womanly pride prevented
her doing so. She was terribly
afraid, also, of being deceived a second
time. The scalded dog fears cold water,
and though her sense told her that Hugh
N orris's character and disposition were
utterly different from those of Henri de
Courcelles, she dreaded making another
mistake, and finding out, when too late,
that they were unsuited to each other.
His summary departure had the effect,
however, of causing her a sleepless night,
and as soon as the sun was up the following
morning, she found her way to
Mr Courtney's office.

Well, Lizzie,' said the planter kindly,
and so you wouldn't join our festivities
yesterday. It was a grand sight, though,
and you would have enjoyed it ; and I
missed you several times during the
breakfast, I can tell you.'

You have always been too kind tome,
Mr Courtney ; but you know my
reasons for not being with you. No one
wishes Quita health and happiness more
than I do, and every sort of prosperity ;
but I was better at home. Besides, I
don't think I could have come, under
any circumstances,' continued Lizzie, smiling,
' for do you know we had two new
arrivals on the plantation yesterday ?
Chloe, the mulatto, and Aunt Jane, William
Hall's wife, both had daughters
during the forenoon, and both are determined
to call them " Maraquita," in
honour of the wedding. I did laugh so

to see the two black woolly-headed little
Marquises ; but the proud mothers saw
nothing incongruous in the idea.'

Naturally,' replied Mr Courtney, joining
in the smile. 'And what is the
plantation health report to-day ? '

Very good ! I have only two cases
of fever left, and they are both convalescent.
The negro boy, Dickey,
broke his arm whilst climbing trees to
see the fireworks last night  but ita
simple fracture ; and I have a few
children down with infantile cholera, but
nothing dangerous.'

That's well. And can I do anything
for you, Lizzie ? Any orders wanted for
medicines, or other necessaries ? '

'No, sir ; I have everything I require.
But I came up this morning chiefly
to ask you a favour, Mr Courtney. I
want you to tell me everything you

VOL. III. D

may know concerning my father and his
family

The planter pushed his chair back, and
regarded her with surprise.

About your father's family?' he echoed.
But why should you imagine that I know
more than yourself ? '

Oh, you need attempt no concealment
with me, sir. I appreciate the generosity
of your motive, but my father himself has
rendered it unnecessary. A few days
before he was taken from us, he related
to me the history of his life, and the
reason why he lived a pensioner on your
goodness at Beauregard, instead of taking
his place in the world and society,
like other men. Also that he passed
under an assumed name, from fear
of the law ; but he did not tell me
what my real name is, and I wish to
know.'

But to what purpose, Lizzie ? What
good will it do ? '

I have not even thought of that,
sir ; but if it brought evil in its train, I
should still ask for the information. For
since my father told me that Fellows is
not my own name, I seem to have lost
my individuality, and to be some one else.
When I hear it spoken, I don't feel as if
I had the right to answer ; and in fact,
Mr Courtney, I beg of you to satisfy my
curiosity in this particular.'

Well, Lizzie, you are a woman, and
if you have made up your mind on this
subject, you shall be gratified ; but I
would ask you to think again first. I
don't believe the information will make
you happier. What is the use of belonging
to a family who will not own you ?
Your poor father's relations all turned
against him, and will do the same by his

daughter. It was that they might never
have the power to insult him again, that
he took the name of Fellows.'

So he told me, sir ; and also of
the crime he committed against you, and
of the generosity with which you forgave
it. I feel (and I told him so)
that after that, my life and all I hold
dearest in the world should be at your
disposal ; and I will sink my personality
in the future, as I have done in the
past, if you wish me to do so.'

'No, no ! my dear girl, I don't consider
I have any right to dictate to
you on the subject ; and since you
desire to know your name, I will tell
it you. You are Elizabeth Ruthin, the
grand-daughter of General Sir William
and Lady Ruthin of Aberdare in Scotland.
Your dear father's name was
Herbert Ruthin. He was the second

son, the eldest, I believe, Is in the
army. He has already told you (you
say) of the sad event which brought
us together. He was my dearest friend
in youth, and to the day of his death ;
but he was extravagant and thoughtless,
and hardly thought of the gravity of
the act he was committing.'

That is your kind way of putting
it,' said Lizzie. ' My father did not
exonerate himself after that fashion, sir.
He saw his fault in its true light. But
my mother's name  what was that ? '

Alice Stevens. She was the daughter
of a clergyman, and a very sweet
woman, I believe ; but she died so
early, that I saw but little of her.
Have you any more questions to ask
me, Lizzie ? '

Only, have you any papers to prove
what you tell me, Mr Courtney ? '

What a practical young woman you
are. Yes, I have. I loved your dear
father with almost a romantic attachment,
and I have kept all the letters
that passed between us as young men,
that is, when he was practically living
at home on Sir William Ruthin's estate
of Aberdare, but going backward and
forward to pursue his studies at Edinburgh.
His frequent mention of his
home life, and every one connected with
it, is sufficient proof of his identity.'

And may I have those letters, sir ? '

Certainly, if you wish it ; and, now
I come to think of it, they should be
in your possession, in case of anything
happening unexpectedly to me.'

Mr Courtney rose as he spoke, and
unlocking an iron safe, placed a packet
of letters, endorsed ' Correspondence with
my friend H. Ruthin,' in her hand.

And now, Lizzie, what will you do
with them ? ' he added. ' Shall you go
post-haste to England by the next
steamer, and lay claim to your fathers
property ? '

Oh, sir, don't laugh at me ! Remember
that a felon's daughter has no
rights.'

Lizzie, you shall not use that term
of your late father in my presence ! '

'It is what he called himself, sir, 
what, doubtless, his people call him to
this day, if ever they mention his name.
Are my grand - parents living, Mr
Courtney ? '

I believe so, my dear, and a very
nice couple they were, though I have
heard this trouble was an awful blow
to their pride. Scotch pride too. There's
nothing like it. But Lady Ruthin loved
her son Herbert dearly in the olden

days. I wonder if she ever mourns
for him now ? '

Can time wear out a mother's love ? '
said Lizzie. * And my poor father was
so loveable and affectionate. I cannot
believe sometimes that he was capable
of so base a sin as ingratitude.'

Don't believe it, my dear ! It is allover
and past now. Think only of
him as one of God's regenerated children.
And if he erred in that respect, his
mantle has not fallen on his daughter,
for you have repaid any kindnesses
we may have shown you, twofold.'

I have tried to do so,' replied Lizzie,
in a faltering voice, as, with the packet
of letters in her hand, she passed quickly
from the office on her way home.

FEW days later, Hugh
Norris rushed unexpectedly
into Lizzie's presence.
I have come to wish you good-bye ! '
he exclaimed, in a voice of distress.
I have received orders this morning
which compel me to sail at once ;
and as the Trevelyan! s repairs are
complete, I have no possible excuse for
disobedience.'

Lizzie changed colour slightly as she
heard the news, but she answered
quietly, 

And I am sure that, under any circumstances,
you would make none. Have
you not often told me that a sailor's
first duty is towards his ship ? '

Ah, yes ; that is all very well in
theory,' he said, with a rueful look,
but you cannot know what I feel at
leaving you alone, Lizzie, at this anxious

time.'

I shall be safe enough, my dear
friend, so have no fears for me. When
do you sail?'

With the tide this evening, and
hardly know how I shall get through
all my work by that time. I didn't
expect to get off for another week.'

Then I mustn't detain you, Captain
N orris ; though it was good of you to
think of me at the last.'

Of whom else should I think 1 I
shall not be away long this time, Lizzie.

I only go to England and back. A
couple of months may see me here
again. What can I do for you there ? '

Nothing, thanks. I have no commissions
for you.'

Have you spoken to Mr Courtney
yet on the subject of your family ? '

Lizzie started.

Oh, yes ; and that reminds me that
I have some letters I want to show
you. Wait a moment Captain Norris,
whilst I fetch them  '

Missy Liz ! Missy Liz ! ' piped
a shrill little voice at the open
door.

What is it, Pete ? ' she asked of a
negro boy, whose dusky face was anxiously
peering in upon them.

Oh, Missy Liz, please come quick
to Mammy Chloe's baby! That's kinder
sick ; taken dreadful, with its eyes turned

up so, and its body quite stiff like a
piece of wood ! '

Convulsions ! ' exclaimed Lizzie, as she
threw the packet of letters she had just
taken from her desk across the table,
and put her hat upon her head. * Captain
N orris, I rust go. Read those whilst
I am gone.'

But I cannot stay till you come
back, Lizzie. Each moment is precious
to me. Give me five minutes more.'

I dare not. This is a new - born
infant, and a matter of life and death.
God bless you, and good-bye ! '

He had only time to wring her hand,
when she darted from the house. He
watched her figure running swiftly towards
the negroes' quarters, and then
returned to the shaded apartment, with
a deep sigh. What interest had he
then in the packet of letters she had

left him to peruse ? hizz'iQ was gone.
He should not see her again, perhaps
for months, and the world seemed to
be a blank without her. In the hope
of her speedy return, he sat down fora
few minutes more, and mechanically
drew the letters towards him. But as
his eye fell upon the written words his
countenance changed, and his expression
became one of the deepest interest.
He hastily scanned through the letters,
making sundry notes as he did so, and
then, with a long low whistle, he tied
the envelopes together again, and, laying
them upon Lizzie's desk, walked
to the window to watch for some token
of her return. None came. The Indian
sun was blazing in all its splendour
on the tropical leaves and flowers, the
pathway to the coolies' huts was one
long line of white dust glittering like

golden sand ; but not a sound could
be heard but the far - off hum of the
workers in the cotton fields, not a living
creature to be seen but Rosa in the
shaded verandah, with Maraquita's child
slumbering on her knees, and an aged
negro, long past work, who was warming
his stiffened limbs in the sunshine.
Hugh Norris watched impatiently for a
few minutes from the open door, and
then, with a rapid glance at his watch,
and a deep sigh, he unwillingly prepared
to leave the bungalow.

Be a good girl to your mistress, Rosa,'
he said, as he passed the yellow girl ; * take
great care of her and the baby, and I'll
bring you a beautiful string of beads when
I come back from England.'

'Tank you, sar,' replied Rosa. * I'll be
berry good all time you away ; and I'd like
a nice shawl too, sar.'

Well, you're not bashful, Rosa,' replied
Hugh Norris, laughing ; * but you shall
have the shawl too, if you'll keep your
promise. And if there should be any
trouble on the plantation  you know what
I mean  take Missy Lizzie up to the White
House at once, and don't mind what she
says about staying here.'

I understand, sar ; but nebber you fear.
De niggers on dis plantation too good for
dat. They hub Massa and Missus Courtney
; and as for Missy Liz, they die for her
dat's ses' so.'

Captain Norris gave a sigh of relief.

I hope so, Rosa, and it makes me
happier to hear you say it ; but still I am
not easy. But take this and buy yourself
a new gown ; and remember, when you
wear it, that you have promised me to be
faithful.'

He thrust a five-dollar note into her

hand as he spoke, and with one yearning
look in the direction of the negro quarters,
walked rapidly away towards the town.
Rosa rolled her eyes with delight at the
feel of the five-dollar note.

He gone 'coon too,' she thought, with a
sapient air ; ' car's another what Missy Liz
have done for. And she's so quiet all de
time. Dat's what beats me. 'Pears as if
she didn't care if they was *' gone " or not.
Wall, if dey all gib me five-dollar notes,
I wish there was a thousand of them.'

Meanwhile, Lizzie was kneeling down
beside Mammy Chloe's straw mattress,
putting the poor little black baby into hot
baths, and watching by it as tenderly as if
it had been a princess of the blood royal,
until the attack of convulsions had ceased,
and it was sleeping peacefully on its
mother's breast again.

Dar now, dat's ses' wonderful ! ' exclaimed

the crowd of dusky mortals, who
had anxiously watched her proceedings,
dat baby ses' dying', 'pears as though
death was in its face, and its body cold
and stiff already, and Missy Liz comes
'long and touches it, and it's as well as
ever in half an hour. Missy Liz, you
too clever ! You like de Lord, Who
touches with little finger, and everybody
well again. You ses' white angel. Missy
Liz  no mistake about dat.'

My dear friends, you make too much
of my poor services for you. You could
all do nearly as much for yourselves, if
you would only let me teach you. Mammy
Chloe made her baby sick. She says she
gave it some sweet potato yesterday.'

Only tiny leetel bit, Missy Liz, out ob
my own mouth ! ' cried the mother.

However little it was, Chloe, it was too
much for a baby of three days old. How

VOL. III. E

often must I tell you to give your little
infants nothing but the breast ? Your baby
is safe again now, but if you feed her with
potatoes, and rice, and bread, she will have
another fit, and next time I may be able
to do nothing for her.'

Hereupon rose a chorus of dissentient
voices.

Oh, Missy Liz, how you saying dat ?
You can cure everything. Missy Liz.
You mended Dicky's arm, and cured old
Jake's rheumatiz, and fringed de life
back to Claire, when she fell into de
water, and was dead.'

No, no ! ' disclaimed Lizzie, laughing,
she wasn't dead, Betsy. I can't go as
far as to bring the dead to life again.'

Believe you could, Missy Liz, if you
tried, for you're ses' wonderful all round ;
and de niggers nebber had a better friend
dat's so.'

Ay, Massa Courcelles say dat last
night, Auntie Bell. He say Massa Courtney
and de other planters dam bad trash,
and better out ob de way ; but nobody
must hurt Missy Liz, because she's de
niggers' friend, and hub 'em ses' like
herself.'

Monsieur de Courcelles I ' echoed
hlzz'iQ, thinking the negress had made
some mistake. ' How could he have
said that last night ? He is not in San
Diego.'

Massa Courcelles not in San Diego ? '
repeated the shrill voice of Betsy. ' Oh,
Missy Liz, who tell you dat ar lie ?
Massa Courcelles nebber leave de plantation
yet. He's living up at old Josh's
shanty, t'other side of de avenue, and he
comes along of evenings, and talks to us
all of our troubles.'

Lizzie's brow flushed darkly. What

could be the meaning of Henri de Courcelles
hiding himself on Beauregard ? For
what reason was he hanging about the
plantation, and mixing familiarly with the
people whom he professed to abhor ?

And what troubles have you that you
can confide to a gentleman's ears, Betsy ? '
she demanded reprovingly. * Monsieur
de Courcelles was not so kind to you
whilst he was your overseer, that you
should expect to find a friend in him
now. There is some deeper meaning, I
am afraid, in his pretended interest in
you, than that of making your life more
comfortable.'

You may well say that, Miss Lizzie!'
cried Jerusha, who was standing in the
crowd, with her baby In her arms. ' Dat
man nebber sorry for nobody but himself.
What he care if our work is hard,
or our backs ache wit de sun, or our

huts is dark, or de food common ? Did
he care when my back was bowed wit
pain, and my head wit shame, and I
couldn't hardly stand upon my legs ?
Didn't he strike me and my poor beetle
boy, and say, " D  n you ! Go hell ! I
make you work like a dog " ? '

Hush, hush, Jerusha ! ' exclaimed
Lizzie, as she rose and placed her hand
kindly on the shoulder of the excited
coolie. ' I know you have had your
troubles, my poor girl. I know Monsieur
de Courcelles has wronged you terribly,
but you must try to be patient, and forgive,
as  as  we ail have to do sometimes.'


But Jerusha shook the compassionate
touch off her.

No, Missy Liz,' she said loudly, * I
cant forgive. If he had given me one
kind word, I'se have worked for him to

my last day, and been glad only to see
him well and happy ; but he's bad all
through, to de very core. He wrong
more dan me. Ah, I know plenty tings
people not thinking ! and now he come
and 'cite des niggers to revenge themselves,
and send all de planters out of
de island, and keep de fields for dere
own use. Dat his way of "paying out"
somebody. Missy Liz. But / know him
and his dark ways, and if des people
rise 'gainst de planters, Massa Courcelles
shall be de first to go, if I kill him with
my own hand.

Rise ! ' cried Lizzie indignantly.
Surely, after all the kindness they
have experienced from Mr and Mrs
Courtney, there is no one on this plantation
so wicked as to dream of rising.
What should they do it for ? What
more can they desire than they already

possess ? There are no hands on the
island more looked after and cared for
than those on Beauregard.'

I dunno dat,' chimed in a discontented
voice. * San Souci niggers gets
a tot of rum every night, and a quarter
of a pound more meat than we do.'

Who said that ? ' exclaimed Lizzie
quickly, turning round. ' Ah, it was
you, Aunt Sally ! That's a nice grateful
thing to say, when you were down
with fever three weeks this year,
and received your wages all the same,
though you couldn't do a stroke of
work. That's the best return you can
make, is it ? And you know why the
San Souci hands get extra rations well
enough,  because the plantation is so
near the swamp, and so unhealthy inconsequence,
that they are half their
time down with fever and ague. You

ought to be ashamed of yourself, to
set such a bad example to the others.'

I only repeating what Massa Courcelles
say,' replied Aunt Sally sulkily.

Then Monsieur de Courcelles should
be ashamed of himself. I have no
hesitation in saying it,' continued Lizzie
warmly. ' I have been brought up
amongst you all since I was a little
child, and I am a witness to the kind
and indulgent treatment you have received
from your employers. Mr Courtney
has never spared money or trouble
to make his hands comfortable and
happy, and if you have ever had any
cause of complaint, it has been against
this very man who is inciting you now
to feel rebellious and ungrateful ! '

De overseer only act on de Massa's
orders,' grumbled Aunt Sally again.

It is not true ! ' cried Lizzie indignantly.

' Mr Courtney never ordered
Monsieur de Courcelles to do anything
that was cruel or unjust. He left a
great deal of power in his hands, because
he believed him to be a goodman,
and worthy of his trust ; but he
found out his mistake, and that is why
he has been sent away

Missy Liz speaks God's truth,' exclaimed
Jerusha, 'and you niggers know
she do ! What hasn't dat man done tous
? Didn't he starve old Jakes for
three days 'cause he not clean horse
proper ? and didn't he strike Aunt Hannah
'cross de face with his whip, and make
de 'spells come out ? Didn't he take
me up to his bungalow, and tell me I
lib dere all my life, and den kick me
out like a dog 'cause I got a poor leetel
baby ? Haven't you niggers said, times
out of mind, you'd like to kill him for

all he done, and that it was only 'cause
Missy Liz like him dat he wasn't dead
long ago ? If you says " No " now, den
you're all liars, and a lot of trash dat
is afraid to stick to your own words.'

'Jerusha is right,' said Lizzie. 'You
were all afraid of Monsieur de Courcelles,
and spoke against him, whilst he was your
overseer ; but now that he has no authority
over you, you allow his specious tongue to
lead your minds astray. My dear friends,
be warned in time. Monsieur de Courcelles
has no right to be on this plantation
at all, and he only comes here for a bad
purpose. You mustn't listen to him. I
am sorry to say it before you, but he is
not a good man. I loved him once very
dearly,' continued Lizzie, with a great
effort, and her cheeks dyed crimson, ' and
believed him to be all that was upright
and honourable, but I found out I was

wrong, as you will find out you are wrong,
when it may be too late. Do you know
that I have but to go to Mr Courtney,
and inform him of the mutinous ideas yon
are openly expressing, to have you put
into prison ? And the new Governor is
very strict, as you may have heard, and
makes an example of all rebels. He is
determined to crush the feeling of mutiny
out of San Diego, whatever it may cost.'

Perhaps Gubnor get crushed himself,'
suggested Betsy sullenly.

Don't talk nonsense ! ' cried Lizzie
sharply. ' What could a handful of coloured
people do against the military forces ?
You would all be shot down and killed,
before you knew where you were.'

She spoke boldly and decisively, but her
heart was sinking all the while. If the
negro population of the island rose en
inasse the slaughter might be terrible

before peace could be restored amongst
them. She thought of her benefactors
the Courtneys, of poor heedless Maraquita
and the kind-hearted Governor,  a little
too of herself, and shuddered. And Henri
de Courcelles also. Would he not be
overwhelmed b} the storm he was taking
such pains to raise ? At all risks, she said
to herself, she would see him, and warn
him of the danger he ran in turning
against his late employers.

'Which of you has been listening to
Monsieur de Courcelles' inflammatory
talk ? ' she asked presently, as she looked
round upon the women.

All of us,' answered Aunt Sally. ' He
come down to our huts of evenings, and
sit dere, and tell us how Massa Courtney
treat him fuss den nigger, and how we're
free coloured people, and should stan' no
nonsense.'

He is worse than I thought him,' said
Lizzie. ' He must stop it at once, or I
shall inform Mr Courtney, and have him
turned off the premises

Kill him, Missy Liz, kill him I' hissed
Jerusha, between her clenched teeth ; ' dat
is de only way to crush de rattlesnake.'

Don't speak like that, Jerusha. It is
wicked, and you do not mean it.'

But the Indian earl did mean it all the

same.

Where did you say that Monsieur de
Courcelles was staying, Betsy ? ' inquired
Lizzie, a few moments after.

At Uncle Josh's shanty, t'other side of
avenue. He mayn't be dere now, Missy
Liz, but he sleeps dere ob nights.'

If de door would fasten, I'd set fire
to dat rotten shanty, before anode moon,'
remarked Jerusha.

Well, I must leave you now,' said the

Doctor's daughter, with a deep sigh ; * but
remember what I say. The next time I
hear any talk Hke this of to-day, I shall
go straight to Mr Courtney, and ask him
to dismiss the whole lot of you. Then
you will starve without any work to do,
and will be sorry you left your comfortable
huts, and kind employers, at the instigation
of a villain.'

Massa Courtney starve too when he
got no coolies to pick cotton and rice for
him,' muttered some one in the crowd.

Lizzie saw plainly that the disaffection
had spread too effectually to be quenched
by her single arguments, and so she left
them, and, wrapped in thought, walked
leisurely away from the coolie quarters.
Her first step, she felt, must be to see
Henri de Courcelles, and with that intention
she directed her feet towards
Uncle Josh's shanty, which stood somewhat

apart from the rest. The sun was
now high in the heavens, and no European
was abroad who could rest at home.
Lizzie's broad - brimmed hat and white
umbrella sheltered her sufficiently in the
shady plantation, but she would not have
ventured out, except at the call of duty,
at so late an hour in the morning, and so
she firmly calculated on finding Monsieur
de Courcelles within the hut. She was
not disappointed. Old Uncle Josh, who
was an aged negro almost past work, and
only kept to do light jobs about the
garden and stables, came to the door
with much caution to answer Lizzie's
knock for admittance, and was about to
declare that he knew nothing of Monsieur
de Courcelles, when a voice from within
called out to him to admit the lady, and
not make a d  d fool of himself. So
Lizzie passed in, and found herself face to

face with the man she had believed to be
hundreds of miles away.

Monsieur she commenced hurriedly,
I should not be here, except th I
have something of the utmost importance
to say to you. You must send
this man away, so that he may not hear us.'

Go up to the plantation, Uncle Josh,
or anywhere you like, and don't come
back for an hour,' said De Courcelles, ina
voice of authority ; and the old negro
nodded in acquiescence, and shambled off.

Are you sure he is safe ? ' demanded
Lizzie, as the man disappeared.

Safe as death ! I have him under
my thumb,' was the confident reply.
And now, what can you have to say
to me, Lizzie ? After our last parting,
I hardly expected you would seek me out
of your own accord.'

Neither should I have done so, except

that the welfare of those I love
more than myself is at stake. Monsieur,
why are you still on the plantation of
Beauregard ? '

I think that is my business sooner
than yours.'

Indeed it is my business,  the business
of every one who regards the Courtneys
as benefactors. Your presence here can
be for no good purpose. It spells ruin
and devastation for them. By your false
arguments you are inciting these ignorant
coloured people to rebel; you are
making them discontented  not to say
bloodthirsty; and the upshot of your
evil counsel will be a mutiny, that will
involve their own downfall with those of
their employers, and, perhaps, lead to
murder and rapine.'

*And what do I care if it does.? It
will be no more than they deserve.'

VOL. III.

Oh, Henri, you cannot think what
you are saying ! Surely you would never
be so wicked ! What have the Courtneyss
done to make you so revengeful ?
They were always the kindest of patrons
to you, until this unhappy business occurred
with Maraquita. And even to
the last they were both just and generous
How can you find it in your heart
to injure them ? '

They are Maraquita's parents he answered
gloomily.

And would you avenge her falsehood
her broken faith  upon them ? Monsieur,
that is not like yourself! It is
unworthy of any one calling himself a
man.'

What right had they to turn me off
Beauregard, then ? It was only done to
shield her, because they suspect the
truth, and are afraid I might prove

a dangerous rival. She marries the
Governor of San Diego, and is lapped
in luxury and comfort, whilst / (who
am morally her husband) am sent adrift,
like a rudderless boat, to toss anywhere
on the sea of life. But I'll be even
with her yet, and her bald-headed old
ape of a partner too.'

Henri, you must not speak like that,'
said Lizzie firmly. ' I feel for your disappointment
 indeed I do ; it must bea
bitterly hard one ; but to try and revenge
yourself in this manner is a
cowardly and wicked thing. The feeling
of disaffection is rife enough in the
island, without your adding to it. I beg
I pray of you to leave the plantation,
and not return. You have no right
here, and if you remain, I shall consider
it my duty to inform Mr Courtney; and
you know how painful it would be forme

to say anything to him against you.
Henri, for the sake of old times, do as
I ask you.'

You are a good woman, Lizzie  I
have always maintained that  and, If you
wish it, I will go. But, mind you, my
departure will not stop the rising mutiny,
any more than my remaining here
hatched it into life. The native population
is ripe for rebellion, and it is only
now a question of weeks  perhaps days
before they burst into open revolt. I
am glad I have seen you, to warn you
against it. The coolies will not harm
you, I am sure  they love and reverence
you too much  but they may frighten
you, and I should wish to prevent even
that. But as for the rest  well ! I shall
not be satisfied till I see the White
House and Government House in ashes,
and their owners weltering in their blood ! *

The expression of his face was so
murderous as he spoke, that Lizzie
fairly screamed, 

Oh, Henri, Henri, surely you are
not in earnest ! You would never countenance
nor encourage so horrible an
idea ! You would save those who have
been good to you  whom you once believed
you loved  at the risk of your
own life ! Tell me it is the truth, for
I will never leave you till you acknowledge
it.'

Henri de Courcelles seized her two
hands in a grip of iron, and drew her
towards him, until their faces nearly
touched each other.

Lizzie Fellows,' he exclaimed roughly,
to hide his emotion, ' if I could have
gone on loving you, if that heartless
jade had not come between us with
her mock innocence and her fatal beauty

and blinded my eyes to your superior
virtues, I should have been a happier
and better man to-day. But nov. I
know it is too late. You have ceased
to love me, and I shall never again
be able to lay any claim to your
hand.'

But I have not ceased to care
if you are a good man or a bad
one, Henri,' she answered, through
her tears ; ' and I entreat you now,
by your memory of the past, todo
what I ask you, and leave Beauregard.'


I will, because you ask me ; but, as
I have already told you, it will not
make the difference you imagine. I
could no more stay the progress of
this mutiny now, than I could single-handed
quench the fire of a burning
city. It has gone too far for that.

Besides, I have no desire to do so.
My heart thirsts for revenge, and I
shall only quit Beauregard to join
another set of rebels, and perhaps a
more dangerous one.'

Henri, cannot I persuade you to
give up that madness also ? '

No, Lizzie, the time is past. Mara-quite's
falsehood has made me reckless,
and I only live now to one
end,  to see her punished as she
deserves.'

Leave her to Heaven, Henri. Do
you think her infidelity will not be
its own punishment ? How many
nights will she lie awake, poor child,
wanting your love, wanting mine, which
used, at one time, to make all her
happiness ? How often will her heart
yearn  for Quita has a heart, Henri,
though it is choked up with vanity and

love of self  for the days she spent
with us,  for the poor little innocent
she has left behind her ? Ah, neither
you nor I can measure the pain which
remorse will bring her ! '

Don't you believe it. You judge
her by yourself, and your sex is the
only likeness between you. She is all
bad, Lizzie, false from head to foot,
and the sooner the world is rid of her,
the better.'

And are you the one who should
be her judge .'' replied Lizzie mournfully
; * can you bring clean hands into
court, Henri, with which to condemn
her ? No, I am not alluding to myself.
It was not your fault, perhaps, if you
found upon a closer acquaintance that
you could not love me as you once
imagined ; but what of Jerusha  the
poor little coolie girl with whom you

were carrying on a pretension of affection
at the same time that you were
deceiving Maraquita ? How can you
find it in your heart to contemplate
revenge on her for an error of which
you were guilty yourself?'

You women don't understand these
things, Lizzie. No one but a little fool
like Jerusha would have believed for a
moment that I was in earnest, or that
such an irregular business could possibly
last more than a few months.'

Yet Jerusha vows to have her revenge
on you, as warmly as you do to
have yours on Maraquita.'

At this piece of intelligence, Henri
de Courcelles changed colour.

If that is the case, your advice has
not come too soon. These coolies are
the very devil to stick to an idea if they
once get it in their head, and I shall

wake up some night, perhaps, to find
Miss Jerusha's fingers at my throat, if
I don't clear out. Curse the little jade !
She's been more trouble to me than she's
worth.'

And may be the occasion of more
yet,' replied Lizzie, who saw the way,
by taking advantage of his fear, to make
him hold to his purpose. ' She is dead
set against you, Henri  I am witness to
that  and constantly speaking of her
wrongs to the rest. She swears she will
have your life some way or other ; and for
that reason only, I think it would be
much wiser of you to leave the plantation.
She is quite capable indeed of betraying
you to Mr Courtney ; and such
a proceeding might lead to your arrest,
on a suspicion of felonious purposes.
Now, do you see the danger you
are in ? '

Indeed I do, and I shall not sleep
another night on Beauregard : you may
take my word for that. Indeed, when
I come to think of it, I cannot imagine
how I can have been such a fool as to
run the risk for so long. There are
plenty of places in San Diego where I
can be safer, and bide my time for my
revenge.'

Do more, whilst you are about it,
Henri. Leave San Diego altogether,
and your idea of revenge behind you.
It will never make you any happier,
and it may cast a haunting regret overall
your future. And you are still young.
There is perhaps a happy life looming
for you in the distance, if you will
try and forget the failure of your
youth.'

No, Lizzie ; you speak to deaf ears.
I will fulfil your wish, and leave this

place. Be satisfied with that, and when
I am gone, forget all about me. I was
never worthy to kiss even the hem of
your garment, and my darkest shame
will ever be that I permitted you to
waste a single thought upon me. Goodbye,
my dear. Don't stay here any
longer, for your presence, and the memories
it brings with it, unman and make
a coward of me. By this time tomorrow
I shall have left Beauregard
for ever.'

Thank Heaven for that,' replied Lizzie,
as she obeyed his request, and left the
hut.

Her mind was not wholly at ease concerning
him, because she saw that he
was doggedly bent upon having his own
way ; but she had, at all events, succeeded
in scaring him off the property of her
benefactors, and trusted that when his evil

influence was removed from them, the
hands of Beauregard would return to
their former condition of obedience and
contentment.

Lizzie had guessed correctly
when she said that Mara-quite's
infidelity would prove
its own punishment. The honeymoon
at Santa Lucia was not a very satisfactory
one, at least for the bride. So
long as the day endured, and Quita's
frivolous soul could be gorged on flattery,
and the servile congratulations paid herby
her husband's guests, she was contented
with her lot, and disposed to
believe it would turn out all she had
prognosticated for herself. To feel she

was the woman of most importance in
the island, and that she had horses and
carriages, and servants at her command,
and that a military guard accompanied
her wherever she went, and everybody
turned to gaze after her, and said to
one another, ' There goes the Governor's
bride,' was quite sufficient to inflate
her foolish Httle heart with pride, and
make her forget, for the time being,
the penalty attached to it all. But
one cannot pass one's entire life in
public, and when the hours of domestic
happiness arrived, they were very trying.
Then, if she had had a handsome
young husband suited to herself in age
and disposition waiting on her every
look and smile while he whispered words
of love in her ear, how delighted would
Maraquita have been to fly to the
sacred recesses of her own apartments.

and shut the world and its hollow compliments
outside. But now such moments
became torture. Sir Russell had been
sufficiently trying as a lover, but asa
husband he became simply unendurable.
His middle-aged ecstasies over
his new possession, his fussy attentions,
his twaddling conversation about things
and people of which she had never
heard, soon bored his young wife to
extinction. And he was not slow to
find out that he did not interest her.
He noted the vacant look, the wandering
attention, the deep sighs that occasionally
interrupted their intercourse, and
commenced to feel the first twinges of
jealousy, and to wonder if there had
been any other admirer in the background
whom Lady Johnstonee had not
entirely forgotten.

If he could only have read her

thoughts as she sat by his side when
they were alone together, or lay for
hours during the silent watches of the
night gazing open-eyed at the dark
blue heaven with its myriad clusters
of stars, how unpleasantly satisfied he
would have been. It was at those
times that the newly-made Lady John-stone's
thoughts returned to the past
which she had so pertinaciously thrust
from her, and that she longed (with
the contradiction of human nature) to
be able to take back again to her
heart the fate which she had held in
her hand, without the moral courage to
grasp it. It was then that the glorious
dark eyes of Henri de Courcelles
seemed to gaze into her own like twin
stars, just as they used to look at those
heavenly moments when they sat together

on the bench in the Oleander Thicket,
VOL. III. G

and her lover's arms were folded closely
round her, as though to shield her from
all harm.

Henri de Courcelles had innumerable
faults, but he had loved this girl withall
his heart, and, now that it was too
late, Maraquita seemed to realise it for
the first time. There was another regret,
too, that intruded itself into her
married life, a regret that seemed to
grow with the days, and assume such
inconceivable proportions that she was
tempted to cry out that she could bear
it no longer, but must at all risks rush
back to San Diego and see her child.
Sometimes the unhappy young mother
would dream that the infant was dying,
and wake up with the tears upon her
cheek ; sometimes that it really belonged
to Lizzie, and she had lost the right to
call it hers ; and sometimes that she

held it to her heart, and was proud and
fond of it hake other mothers, until she
discovered it was a poisonous asp, stinging
the bosom on which it lay. Such
thoughts and dreams were not good for
the young bride to indulge in, and she
grew paler and thinner every day. Sir
Russell called in a doctor, who declared
Lady Johnstonee's condition to be due
to weakness, consequent on her late
attack of fever, and advised her immediate
return to San Diego, as possessing
a higher and more bracing air
than Santa Lucia. Sir Russell sought
his wife's rooms, all fuss and anxiety
on account of her low spirits, and communicated
the medical man's opinion to
her. They had been married now for
three weeks, and the Governor had
already come to the conclusion that a
domestic life was not all roses. He

found his beautiful Maraquita rather
petulant at times, and disposed to have
her own way. She was not very affectionate
either, and flouted his attempts
at love-making in a manner sufficient
to cure the most ardent lover. He
was disappointed certainly ; he had
imagined women were more open to
their husbands' advances ; but, after all,
he knew very little about the sex, and
was quite ready, as yet, to lay the
failure at his own door. He was not
fit, he told himself, to be the companion
of such an innocent, guileless
creature ; she felt the difference between
his society and that she had
left behind her. The position was new
and strange to her. She would be her
own sweet self again when they returned
to San Diego and she was
restored to her parents' arms. The

alacrity with which Maraquita assented
to his proposal to go home, confirmed
his sentiments upon the subject. It
would have been somewhat of a shock
to him could he have read her thoughts
on the occasion ; but how few of us
could afford to read the mind of our
dearest friend, without fear. Maraquita's
face glowed, and her heart beat faster,
as she pictured herself settled at Government
House. She would have a chance
then of seeing Lizzie again  perhaps of
seeing Henri de Courcelles. Whilst it
lay in his power to deprive her of her
promised dignity, she had dreaded his
presence, and hoped he was far away
from San Diego ; but now that her
position as Lady Johnstonee was secure,
and no one could dethrone her, she
began to crave for the excitement of
seeing her lover again. Weak and

vacillating as she had been as Mara-quite
Courtney, she was even worse
as Lady Johnstonee, for now her weakness
threatened to become a crime.
Her depression of spirits and her
feverish anxiety were so patent, that
the first time Mrs Courtney was alone
with her daughter, she taxed her with
the change.

Whatever is the matter with you,
my dear child ? ' she exclaimed ; ' you
don't seem half so happy as I expected
to see you. Here you are, the
Governor's wife, and the lady of highest
rank in San Diego, and yet you seem
quite melancholy. You don't mean to
tell me that you are disappointed, or
that your marriage has not proved all
you expected it to be ? '

'Oh, no, mamma! I suppose it's all
right ! I've got the position and the

money, and no one can have been such
a fool as to think I married a bald-headed
stupid old man like Sir Russell
for anything else.'

Mrs Courtney lifted her hands and
eyebrows in surprise.

'My dear! my dear! remember he's
the Governor ! '

How can I forget it ? Isn't it dinned
into my ears from sunrise to sunset !
Of course he's the Governor ! I am
sure he need be, for he's very little
else ! But I'm afraid that fact is not
sufficient for one's happiness.'

My darling, what more can you
possibly want .' A splendid house, and
number of servants, equipages, and
horses, jewels, dresses, ornaments, and
the whole island at your feet! Why, I
think you are the luckiest girl I ever
heard of.'

But her eloquence was interrupted
by Maraqulta flinging herself headlong
on a couch, and sobbing out, 

'I'm not! I'm not! I'm as unhappy
as I can be ! I wish I had never
consented to give up my poor Henri !
I dream of him every night ! '

But at that confession, her mother's
attempt at consolation changed to
righteous scorn.

Then you must be the wickedest
girl alive, Maraquita ! Dreaming of any
man but your husband, and not married
a month yet ! You ought to be ashamed
to mention such a thing, even to your
mother ! And that wretched low-born
overseer too  a half-caste Spaniard,
with neither birth nor money. I am
utterly surprised at you ! '

Mamma, you shan't abuse him ! He
may be everything you say, but he's

gloriously handsome ; and he loved me,
and I ought to have married him ! Why
didn't you manage it some way ? You
knew all about us, and you could have persuaded
papa to settle something on him,
and let us live with you at Beauregard,
and then it would have been all right,
and I should have been much happier
there with him and my poor little baby  '
Maraquita ! are you mad?' cried
her mother, clapping her hand before
her daughter's mouth ; ' or do you want
every official in Government House to
hear your shameful secret ? Good
heavens, it is enough to make me
regret I ever interfered to save you
from your own folly! If you confess
the truth now, you will make matters
a thousand times worse than if you
had made the low marriage you seem
to hanker after. It would be a nice

scandal for the island, to hear that the
Governor had repudiated you on account
of your former light conduct! Then
you would lose everything  reputation,
position, and wealth, and gain nothing
in exchange.'

I could go to Henri,' said Maraquita
doggedly, for she possessed one of those
persistent natures that can work themselves
up into a belief, and she was
working herself up to believe that she
was still passionately in love with De
Courcelles, and ready to sacrifice everything
for him.

That you certainly could not,' returned
Mrs Courtney, determined to cut
her folly in the bud, ' for he is not in
San Diego.'

Where is he then ? ' exclaimed Quita,
raising herself from the sofa cushion.

He has gone to America,' replied

her mother, ignoring her regard for truth
so long as she drove this nonsense out
of Maraquita's mind.

To America ! ' repeated the girl. ' Oh,
why did he go there ? What is he going
to do ? '

That is his business, not ours ; but
I believe his family live in the States.
However, he will never return to San
Diego, and so you see how little you will
gain, and how much you may lose, by
indulging in this sentimental folly. Indeed,
I cannot understand you, Quita !
Your one desire last month was to hear
that this most objectionable young man
had left the island, and now you are
moaning after him as if he had been
your dearest friend instead of your worst
enemy.*

He loved me ! ' sobbed Maraquita.

I don't think he did love you,' rejoined

Mrs Courtney. ' No man who loved you
would have treated you in so dishonourable
a manner. However, he has been
ready enough to run away from you,
and now the best thing you can do is
to forget all about him. Indeed, you must
compel yourself to do so, my dear. You
owe it not only to your husband, but
to your father and mother. And just
think what a wicked thing you are doing
too  crying after another man when you
are Sir Russell's wife. You horrify and
grieve me beyond measure ! '

Yes, Mrs Courtney was perfectly
right !

It was both weak and wicked of Lady
Johnstonee to let old memories obtrude
themselves upon her wedded life, but
she had been far weaker and wickeder
when she gave them up against her inclination.
An eligible marriage is no cure

for an ill-placed love, and the laws
neither of God nor man have any power
to quench passion in the human heart.
They may help the victim to keep it
under, but it is the one feeling that
refuses to be silent until it has died a
natural death. Whilst poor faulty Mara-quite
believed that Henri de Courcelles
was lying in ambush somewhere ready
to appear before her at any moment,
holding the pledge of their love in his
arms, as he did upon her wedding day,
she had had a great fear mingled with
her insane desire to see him again ; but
now that her mother assured her he had
left San Diego for ever, and she should
never be able to ask his forgiveness, her
dread of him vanished, to give place to
a morbid regret. She wept so much and
ate so little during the first days of her
installation at Government House, that

Mrs Courtney (who had been invited by
Sir Russell to stay with her daughter)
became quite seriously alarmed for the
consequences of her grief, and tried all
she could to rouse her by a description
of the splendid preparations which were
being made for the ball to be given in
honour of their return.

My dear girl, I never saw anything
like it ! Sir Russell is certainly the
most generous of men, and the whole
island is talking of him. He has given
a carte blanche order for all the white
flowers procurable, and the ball-room
will be decorated with nothing else. It
will look like a huge bridal bouquet.'

Or a funeral shroud,' suggested Quita,
with a disagreeable laugh.

My darling ! what a strange thing
to say. We won't have it too white, if
you have such unpleasant comparisons to

make. I will suggest to Sir Russell to
have the wreaths tied with blue ribbons ;
or pink roses interspersed with the white
ones, would look very pretty.'

I'm sure I shouldn't take the trouble,
if I were you, mamma ! Let him have
his own way. What does it signify what
it looks like?'

I think it signifies a great deal,' returned
Mrs Courtney warmly ; ' and when
I come to consider the matter, white
will not set off the dresses as a little
colour would do. For most of the ladies
will be in white ; and you will wear
your wedding-dress, of course, Mara-quite.'


I suppose so, mamma.'

'You will have to open the ball with'
Colonel Symonds, being the next gentleman
in rank to the Governor on the
island, and Sir Russell must lead out

Mrs Symonds. It will be a magnificent
sight, with all the officers in full uniform,
and the military bands in the orchestra.
The supper-tables are to be laid for
three hundred, though I don't know
where they are all to come from ; but
Sir Russell is so generous. It will bethe
proudest day of my life  next to
your wedding-day, Maraquita.'

I shall be very glad if you enjoy it,
mamma.'

Come, come, my dear girl, I won't
have you speak of it in that uninterested
tone, as if you were an old woman of
eighty, past all thoughts of dancing and
admiration. Why, there's not a girl in
the island that dances better than you
do, Quita; and think how every eye will
be fixed upon you, and how the women
will envy your dress and your beautiful
jewels, and wish they had your luck.

Why, there's not a girl in San Diego
but would give her eyes to stand in
your shoes.'

I daresay ! but they pinch sometimes
said Quita, with a yawn.

My daring, all wives' shoes pinch
sometimes,' replied her mother. ' Marriage
is not a bed of roses, any more than
any other condition. But it is necessary
to a woman's well-doing, and you have
drawn a splendid prize in the matrimonial
lottery. And now what time will your
ladyship please to drive this afternoon ? '

Quita smiled. She liked to be called
your ladyship.' If there was one thing-above
another that reconciled her to the
step she had taken, it was to hear herself
addressed by that much - coveted title.
What children most women are, after all, and
how easily caught with glittering baubles.
Jewels and a title make up the sum total

VOL. III. H

of domestic happiness for the majority of
the sex. Maraquita believed herself to be
wretched for the loss of Henri de Courcelles,
but had she been put to the test,
she would not have given up her newly-acquired
dignity, nor one of her sets of
ornaments, to bring him to her feet again.
She would sit for hours with her jewel
cases in her lap, fingering the bracelets,
and rings, and necklaces that Sir Russell
had given her, and holding up the bloodred
rubies, and the grass-green emeralds,
and the deep blue sapphires, and the pure
white diamonds to the light, laughing to
see them catch the sun's rays, and shoot
out a thousand little stars of fire to meet
them. And as the day for the grand ball
drew near, she seemed to recover her
cheerfulness. Mrs Courtney was delighted
to see the interest she suddenly evinced
about her dress, and the ornaments she

was to wear with it, and the manner in
which she should arrange her hair ; and
when the evening arrived, she was as
flushed with excitement, and as eager
for the festivities to be a success, as anyone
could have wished to see her. It was
a proud moment for Mr and Mrs Courtney
when they stood by the side of the dais
which had been erected for the convenience
of the newly-married pair to receive their
numerous guests. Sir Russell, in his
Governor's uniform, looked imposing if
not handsome ; and Maraquita, arrayed in
her wedding garments, stood by his side
like a dainty fairy. All San Diego  that
is, all the respectable portion of it  passed
before them in single file, to offer their congratulations
before the ball commenced, and
there was but one opinion of the appearance
of the bride  that she was the handsomest
woman on the island. Mr and Mrs Courtney

swelled with pride as they overheard the
various comments on her appearance, and
felt rewarded at last for all the trouble
and anxiety their wayward daughter had
given them. The ballroom at Government
House was a long apartment, with
five or six windows on either side, all open
on account of the heat. The spaces between
these windows were hidden with
trophies of flags, and flowers, so that it
looked like a vast bower of leaves and
blossoms, open at intervals to the outer
air. Six large chandeliers pendant from
the ceiling, and laden with wax candles,
made the ballroom a blaze of light, and
rendered it a conspicuous object from the
outside. That the poorer part of the
population should not consider themselves
entirely shut out from the wedding
festivities, Sir Russell had ordered a
handsome display of fireworks to be sent

up from the Fort at ten o'clock, and
hundreds of coloured people were waiting
around, in anticipation of the display.
The supper, which had taken many days
to prepare, was laid in another room on
the same floor, on a series of tables, which
were glittering with knives, and forks, and
glass, and silver ; and everything promised
to go as merrily as the proverbial marriage
bell. As soon as they had received their
guests. Sir Russell and Lady Johnstonee
opened the ball with the two people of
highest rank present, and dancing became
general.

Maraquita, who was passionately fond of
the exercise, did not miss a single turn.
Her card was naturally soon filled up,
for every man present tried to secure
a waltz with the bride, and she flew allover
the room like a beautiful Bacchante,
flushed and smiling, whilst her parents

looked on with admiring complacency, and
one at least thanked Heaven secretly that
the threatened danger was at an end, and
her child had begun at last to properly
appreciate the benefits of her high position.
The evening had waxed towards
midnight, and though the dancers gave
no signs of fatigue. Sir Russell had just
made his way towards Mr and Mrs Courtney
to consult them whether it would not
be wise to give the signal for supper,
when a loud cry of alarm and sounds of
confusion were heard to proceed from the
apartment where it was laid. Sir Russell
turned pale. He had heard something of
the sort before, and guessed its import ;
but he had no time to communicate his
fears to his friends, when a crowd of
natives rushed into the room, armed
with pistols and knives, and every open
window was simultaneously blocked with

dusky faces, ready to bar all egress, or
to leap inside at a moment's notice.
The band stopped playing at once  the
dancers screamed with alarm  all the men
felt their hearts stop, and many of the
women fainted without warning. But
Sir Russell was English bred, and rose
to the occasion at once. He looked almost
majestic as he met the oncoming
horde of mutineers with an uplifted
hand, as though he challenged them to
advance one step further, and demanded
in a voice of thunder what they required
in his private apartments.

Yottr life I ' shrieked one of the mob,
and de lives ob all des d  d white
trash. And we'll hab them too ! On
wit you, carries ! Cut 'em down like de
dogs what dey are.'

I'll shoot the first man who tries to
pass me ! ' shouted Sir Russell, as he

drew a revolver from his pocket ; and
then turning to his father-in-law, he
exclaimed quickly,  ' Mrs Courtney 
Maraquita, get them away, for God's
sake ! '

Maraquita had already flown to her
parents for protection, and was clinging
to her mother In an agony of tears.

Mamma ! mamma ! what will they do
to us ? Oh, we shall all be killed ! Why
did I ever leave Beauregard ! '

Hush hush ! my darling ! It will be
all right. There must be some mistake,'
replied her mother, although she was
shaking so violently that she could hardly
stand.

But If it was a mistake, it was a very
terrible one, for the next moment the
sound of several shots, and a piercing
scream, proved that the rebels had already
commenced their murderous work.

This way, Nita,' said Mr Courtney
hurriedly, pushing his wife and daughter
before him. * Keep close to the wall,
and escape by the door into the library.
It is your best chance

But before they had gone many paces,
elbowing their way frantically through
the crowd that pressed on them from
every side, the dark faces that had
guarded the open windows perceived
their means of exit, and with a cry of
fiendish delight, leapt into the room to
prevent it.

We are lost ! ' cried Mrs Courtney.
Oh, Mr Courtney, in Heaven's name,
what are we to do ? '

Stand before Quita. Conceal her at
all risks, and I will help you,' replied
the father, as he ranged himself by the
side of his trembling wife, and in front
of his daughter ; and then he whispered,

Have no fear, Nita ; they can have no
object in wounding tts. Their malice is
against Sir Russell and our poor child.
Spread your skirts over her, for Heaven's
sake.'

Meanwhile the slaughter became general.
The rebels rushed hither and
thither in search of Maraquita, wounding
or killing every girl they thought to
be the bride, with, in most instances,
the men who resented the murder, until
the ballroom reeked with blood, and
the screams of the unhappy victims were
appalling. But the alarm had been given
at once, and in a few minutes the opposition
shots of the military forces were
heard, and scores of the rebels bit the
dust, whilst many more were taken
prisoners. Amongst the latter was a
young and handsome Spanish half-caste,
whose dark eyes were on fire with the

lust for revenge, but who made no effort
to free himself from his captors.

The clanger is past ! Thank God
that you are both safe ! ' exclaimed Mr
Courtney, as he turned to embrace his
wife and daughter.

Sir Russell had been wounded in the
wrist by a slash from one of his own
dinner knives ; but the Fort physician
had bound it up, and, now that the first
alarm was over, he was able to go in
search of his bride.

Maraquita, my dearest ! ' he exclaimed
fervently, as he saw the pale little figure
which Mr Courtney was supporting,
this is a terrible affair, but, thank God,
the brutes have not injured you, nor
your parents ! You must come away
from here at once, my love. Take her,
Mr Courtney, I beg of you, to her own
apartments. This is no sight for her.'

Quita closed her eyes, and shuddered
as her glance fell on the prostrate corpses,
both black and white, that lay on the
ballroom floor, and heard the moans of
those to whom the surgeon was already
attending ; and she was quite willing to
go away with her parents, and try and
forget the terrible business in sleep.

Yes, yes,' she murmured, clinging to
her father ; * take me away at once, papa
I cannot bear it.'

But when she had advanced a few
paces into the room, her eyes opened
again from sheer horror, and fell on a
sight which paralysed her. There, standing
before her, though held back by the
pinioning arms of his captors, was Henri
de Courcelles, whom she believed to be
in America, with such hatred and fury
in his glance as she had never seen
before.

Henri ! ' she shrieked involuntarily,
before she could prevent herself.


So you have escaped!  curse you?'
he answered, glaring at her like a fiend.
Then what am I doing here . I must
be free, to live to avenge myself on you.'
And without another word, and a sudden
effort that took the men who held him
completely by surprise, Henri de Courcelles
wrenched himself away, and 
the open window, leapt into the darkness
and was gone.

He must have killed himself!' exclaimed
one of the soldiers, looking out
upon the night. ' There is a fall hereof
about twenty feet.'

Order the guard round to take him
prisoner ! ' shouted Sir Russell. * The
wall beneath the window is sixteen
feet high. They will take him like a

rat in a trap. And if not, tell them
to shoot him like a dog.'

No, no ! ' cried Maraquita wildly.
They mttst not  they shall not  he 
he'

But there she fainted, and fell in a
heap at her husband's feet.

'He is the ringleader of the whole
mutiny,  the greatest rascal of them all !
What can she know of him ? ' demanded
Sir Russell, with a frown.

Nothing ; she never saw him before,'
replied Mrs Courtney boldly, though
she was shaking with fear lest Mara-quite
should betray herself.

But she called him " Henri." I
heard her,' said the Governor.

He was a servant on Beauregard
once, Sir Russell. I forgot that when
I said Maraquita had never seen him.
But really this terrible business has

shaken me so that I don't know what
I'm saying. But my poor darling must
be carried to her room. She is not
fit to walk. I hope this shocking affair
may not unsettle her reason.'

It seems as if it had done so already,
when one hears her pleading for the
life of a murderer,' said Sir Russell, ashe
assisted Mrs Courtney to carry the
unconscious girl to her own apartments.
And now, Mrs Courtney, I will leave
my wife in your charge. This is a very
serious matter, and may necessitate my
sitting up all night. The rebellion is
quelled for the moment, but I must
not rest until measures have been taken
to prevent its recurrence. My guests
murdered before my very eyes ! It is
incredible that such a thing should
happen in Her Majesty's dominions.
And we must crush the mutiny, if we

string them all up to the Fort gates.
And this ringleader, this old servant
(as you say) of yours, shall be the
first to suffer. I will give him lynch
law as soon as ever the dawn rises.
I will teach him what the penalty is
of addressing the Governor's wife as he
has dared to do.'

And with this threat upon his lips,
Sir Russell stalked gloomily away.

S soon as the Governor had
disappeared, Mrs Courtney
tried hard to get her husband
out of the room ; but he was
obstinately bent on remaining until his
daughter had recovered her consciousness,
and so, when Maraquita opened
her eyes, both her father and mother
were bending over her.

Where am I ? ' she exclaimed, as
the world broke indistinctly upon her
again.

In your own room, my darling. Lie

VOL. III. I

down, Quita. Don't attempt to rise.
You are quite safe. No one can hurt
you here.'

Safe ! ' repeated the girl, in a bewildered
tone. ' Ah, I remember now !
The ball-room  the blood  those dreadful
cries ! Oh, mamma, mamma,' she
continued, clinging to her mother, * I
shall never forget it ! And Julie Latreille
too. I saw her murdered at my side.
It is too, too horrible!'

No, no, my dearest. You are mistaken.
Julie is not dead. She was
wounded, and they have taken her to
the hospital. But don't think of it anymore
to-night. Let me undress you,
that you may try and get some sleep.'

'Not think of it!' said Maraquita,
with staring bloodshot eyes, as she sat
up on the couch in her white lace dress,
all crumpled and spattered with blood,

*not think of it. Why, I shall never
cease to think of it. And there was
something else too. What was it ? Ah,
Henri ! and he cursed me ! '

Mr Courtney, I must request you to
leave us ! ' exclaimed his wife hurriedly.
You see the excitable condition she is
in, and I can do nothing with her whilst
you are hanging over her like this. The
less people she has with her the better !
You must positively go, and leave her
to Jessica and me.'

Well, my dear, if you think it necessary,
of course I will go ; but you will lose
no time, I hope, in getting the poor child
into bed.'

Do you suppose I don't know what
is best for her, Mr Courtney? I am
only waiting till you are gone, to undress
her.'

And you will send me word how she

goes on  I shall not retire till I hear
she has recovered her composure, and
is in a fair way to sleep.'

I will send Jessica to you in half an
hour. By that time, I hope we shall
both have somewhat overcome this terrible
shock. I shall stay with her all night, and
you had better go and tell Sir Russell so.'

And Mrs Courtney, who had been carrying
on this colloquy just inside the bedroom
door, opened it, and gently pushing
her husband into the passage, closed
and locked it, with a sigh of relief.

Thank Heaven ! ' she said to old
Jessica, ' we are safe ! I trembled for
what she might say next.'

'Allays dat cussed overseer,' observed
the old negress, who stood by Quita's
head.

The girl herself was still sitting up on
the couch when her mother returned to

her, staring into vacancy, and repeating
the word ' Henry in a low voice.

Maraquita ! ' said Mrs Courtney
firmly, as she shook the girl to rouse
her to a sense of her position, * who are
you talking to ? There is no one here !
You are quite alone with Jessica and me.
You are perfectly safe. All the danger
is over, and Goverment House is guarded
by the soldiery on every side. Come to
bed now, like a good child, and try to
sleep.'

'But he  where is he?' asked Mara-quite
wildly. ' Did they fire on him ?
Is he hurt?'

Sir Russell, my darling ? Well, nothing
to signify ! The brutes slashed at him
with their knives, and caught him on the
wrist, but the doctor says it will be all
right again in a few days, and he will
come and see you by-and-by, dear.'

Not him ! I don't want him ! ' returned
Maraqulta fretfully, 'but Henri 
where is my Henri ? He jumped out of
the window, and Sir Russell ordered them
to kill him. Oh, tell me, in Heaven's
name, is he dead?'

Mrs Courtney did not know what to
answer, but Jessica was ready with the
information.

No, Missy Quita, he not dead.
Governor's Sambo tell me all de news
just now. De guard go after him, and
take him prisoner, and shut him up in
Fort cell, where he can't come out.
And so my missy quite safe, and can goto
sleep comfortable.'

There, my darling, you hear what old
Jessica says,' interposed Mrs Courtney
soothingly. * They have got him in
prison. It was like his insolence to speak
to you as he did ; but you have given him

so much encouragement, that the creature
is beside himself. But he has overleapt
the mark this time, and will never trouble
you again.'

Will they  kill him ? ' said Quita,
with a shiver.

I hope so, I'm sure. It would bethe
best thing for all of us, and drive
this romantic nonsense out of your head,
Maraquita. Why, what is this, my dear ?
You are surely not weeping for the fate
of this murderer, who has instigated his
fellows to kill half your friends, and
would have killed you, and your husband,
and your parents, if he had had
the opportunity ? I shall begin to think
you have very little love for your father
or myself, if you can prefer his life to
ours.'

Oh, no, mamma, it isn't that ! I
am very thankful to think you are all

safe. Only  only  Henri, who used to
love me so  to die ! Oh, it must not
be! It is too shocking!'

'If a man sets all the laws of his
country at naught, he must pay the
penalty of his wrong-doing,' said Mrs
Courtney sententiously.

Yes ; but there is some excuse
for him, mamma. Think of his grief
for my loss, his jealousy, his revenge.
It was / who drove him to it. I
should have been true to him at
all hazards, and then this terrible
business would never have happened.
Oh, mamma, he must not die, or
his spirit will haunt me all my
days,' said Quita, trembling, with
closed eyes.

Maraquita, you are exaggerating the
blame that is due to you in this matter.
In the first place, we don't know that

the mutiny was organised on your account
at all. The negroes are disaffected,
I am sorry to say, all over San Diego.
And if it were, it is an outrage which
should call forth nothing but resentment
on your part. You have been foolishly
weak in former times with regard to
this man ; but he must have been
insane if he ever believed you would
marry him. You followed your parents'
wishes in accepting Sir Russell John-stone,
and have nothing to reproach
yourself with in regard to it. Now,
leave the rest of the matter to him, and
don't worry your head about it. You
may depend upon it, the Governor will
do what is just and right, and such a
dreadful affair will never be allowed to
happen again.'

But Henri  what will they do to
Henri ? ' moaned Maraquita.

Oh, this is unbearable ! You are
past all reason ! ' cried Mrs Courtney
impatiently. ' Here, Jessica, help me
off with her ladyship's things, and let
us put her into bed.'

She pulled off the various garments
of cambric and lace, almost roughly, in
her indignation at her daughter's weakness
; and having seen Maraquita laid
in bed, she left her in her old nurse's
care, whilst she went to ask the doctor
for a sleeping draught.

Jessica had been installed at Government
House as she had desired, and
her wages had been raised to nearly
double their former sum. Lady Russell
had felt uncomfortable at first to remember
that there was some one beside
her who knew all about her maiden
life, but in her present extremity she
turned to her old servant with a feeling

of security that she need hide nothing
from her. As her mother left the room,
she moved on her pillow with a heavy
sigh, and laid her little white hand in
Jessica's dark palm. The negro nature,
if vindictive and revengeful under injustice,
is also very affectionate and easily
conciliated. This caressing action on
Maraquita's part touched her old nurse's
heart. It was some time since her
little missy had shown any token of
love for her, and it won her over on
the instant to her side.

'Jessica,' sighed Quita, ' I'm very unhappy.'


I know you is, poor missy,' responded
the negress. ' You're feeling' berry bad
to-night. And, sakes ! it's no wonder.
But it'll be all right time-by, missy.'

I loved him, Jessica, very much,' continued
her young mistress. ' You knew

all about us, and how I used to slip out
when everybody was asleep, and go to
meet him in the Oleander thicket'

*Ah, yes, missy, Jessica knew. Many's
the night I've sot up, and watched and
waited for you to come back ; but it was
generally daylight before you came. Ah!
you used to love de overseer in dose days,
Missy Quita, pretty strong.'

'And I love him still, Nurse! I can't
help it ! ' cried Quita feverishly, as she sat
up in bed, with her dark hair floating about
her, and stared at the negress with dilated
eyes. ' I have loved him all along ; and
if they kill him, they will kill me too.'

No, no, missy ; Governor not killing
Massa Courcelles. Only keep him in
prison little while, and den let him go
free. Lie down, missy, and go sleep.
All right time-by.'

But I want to see him ! ' exclaimed

Ouita excitedly. * I want to hear everything
they are going to do to him ; and
I want to ask his forgiveness for having
married Sir Russell. I must see him,
Jessica. I shall go mad if I don't.'

Den missy shall see him,' replied the
servant soothingly.

Will you manage it for me, Jessica ? '
asked the girl eagerly; 'and without saying
a word to mamma. Will you find
out where Monsieur de Courcelles has
been taken, and if I can possibly get
permission to visit him, and if there will
be a trial, and when ? Find out everything,
Jessica, and let me know tomorrow
morning, and you shall have
the pair of gold bangles papa gave me
last birthday. Stay ! you shall have
them now,' continued Quita, as she
sprang from her bed and took the ornaments
off her dressing-table. ' Put them

on your wrists, Jessica, and remember
you are to find out everything ! '

Missy berry good to ole Jessica,' said
the negress, as she clasped the glittering
circlets on her dusky arms, and feasted
her eyes on them; 'and I'll know
de whole truth by to - morrow morning.
Only missy must lie down again
now, and keep all dis berry dark,
or de ole missus nebber let me tell
muffin.'

The entrance of Mrs Courtney at this
juncture with the opiate draught put a
stop to further confidence, and Maraquita,
having obediently swallowed it, soon lost
sight of her troubles in sleep. Mrs
Courtney dismissed Jessica for the night,
and lay down by her daughter's side ;
but it was long before she followed her
example. She trembled not only for the
fright she had gone through, but for the

influence she feared it might have upon
Maraquita's future.

'Poor child!' she thought, as she contemplated
the lovely face, now tranquil in
slumber on the pillow beside her, * she is
passing through a terrible ordeal. I only-trust
it may not cause a rupture between
Sir Russell and herself. I am certain he
suspects something. I did not half like the
look with which he received my explanation
of the matter. It was the most unfortunate
thing in the world that that fellow
should have been planted right in Mara-quite's
way as she left the room. Two
minutes sooner or later, and she would not
have seen him. Now, I hardly dare to
think how it may end. If he is condemned
to death, she certainly must not hear of
it : I must invent some reason to Sir
Russell for taking her away. Her emotional
nature would break down altogether

under such a strain. What an

awful thing it is that she should ever

have fallen into his clutches ! ' And Mrs

Courtney sighed over it until she fell

asleep.

As soon as the morning broke, Mara-quite
having passed a good night, and
everything being tranquil at Government
House, she accompanied her husband to
Beauregard for the day, for all the planters
vere entertaining grave fears for the continued
submission of their coolie hands,
and it was not thought advisable to leave
the estates for long at a time without a
ruling eye. Her departure vas the signal
for a long conference between Lady
Russell and old Jessica. The negress
had ascertained that it was possible for
the friends of the prisoners to obtain
access to them through a written order
from the Governor, but that the privilege

would only be extended in the case of
relations.

That renders it impossible ! ' exclaimed
Quita despairingly, for she was nota
woman with the wit to overcome
difficulties.

How so, missy ? ' demanded Jessica.
Why impossible ? / can get order
quick enough.'

You, Jessica ? But Sir Russell knows
you. Besides, he would never believe you
were related to Monsieur de Courcelles.'

Oh, missy, I not going work dat
way at all. Course he not gib it to me ;
but if missy gib me five-dollar note, dat
half-caste woman Rosita will go swaer
she's de overseer's aunt, or his modern,
and want speak to him with her daughter
dat's you, missy. Den you put veil
over your face, and big cloak, and go
with Rosita and see de overseer.'

VOL. III. K

But Rosita may tell,' said Mara-quite,
shrinking from the idea.

Jessica shrugged her shoulders contemptuously.


Rosita not tell  what good her
telling ? but if missy 'afraid, gib her
ten dollars 'stead of five! den I swear
she not tell.'

And what else did you hear, Jessica
? '

Sambo say de Governor would ahab
hung all de mutineers dis morning,
same like dogs, only de Colonel ob de
forces tell him dat berry bad plan, and
make big fight, and he better have
proper martials. So dat am fixed for
tomorrow, and den dey will be hung
at sunset fire  dat what Sambo says.'

And  and  what more, Jessica .' '

Dat's pretty well all, missy, only
de corpses hab been cleared away,

and will be buried dis evening. And
Missy Latreille berry bad in hospital,
and both de Missy Burns dead, and
dere fader hab sworn if Governor
don't hang de rebels, he will'

Oh, it is terrible ! ' sighed Mara-quite.
* I shall never have the courage
to visit the cells. I am so afraid of
being found out.'

Den missy better not go.'

But, Jessica, he will die without
my seeing him, and I shall never
forgive myself. I don't know what todo.'


She vacillated, like the weak creature
she was, between two opinions, until
it was almost too late for Jessica
to arrange the matter for her ; but
finally, under the dread of her mother's
speedy return from Beauregard, she
made up her mind to visit De Courcelles,

and Jessica was despatched
with a ten dollar note to make the
necessary preparations.

When the afternoon sun was somewhat
on the wane, and Sir Russell
Johnstonee, having passed a sleepless
night, and believing his wife to be
safe in her own apartments, had thrown
himself down on a couch to obtain
some rest, Maraquita, effectually disguised
with veil and cloak, stole down
the back staircase of Government
House, in company with the negress,
and sought the abode of the half-caste
woman Rosita, who had been
fully instructed in the part she had
to play. Leaving Jessica behind them,
the two women immediately set out
for the Fort, where they were received
by the officer commanding the prison
guard. He threw one glance on the

Governor's signature, and gave them
immediate admittance.

Friends to see the prisoner No. 14,
by the Governor's permission,' he shouted
to the warder, who, unlocking a heavy
iron-clamped door, ushered the visitors
into a stone passage, from which there
seemed to be no possibility of egress.
Maraquita's feeble courage was fast
failing her, and had it not been for
the cool nerve and determination of
Rosita, she would have probably betrayed
herself. But the half-caste woman
was quite equal to the emergency.

Ah, sir, tell me ! ' she exclaimed,
as soon as they were alone with the
warder, ' will they really kill my poor
nephew ? Is there no chance of a
reprieve ? '

Don't think so, ma'am,' was the official's
answer ; ' but no one can tell for certain

till after the court - martial tomorrow.
Your nephew, you say ? '

Yes ! and this poor girl, my daughter,
was to have been married to him before
long. It's a terrible trial for her ! I don't
know how she'll stand the interview.'

She'd better not see him. 'Won't dono
good,' said the warder roughly ; * though
she's had a lucky escape from such a
rascal.'

But I've come on her account alone.
She can't rest till she's seen her cousin.
Now, Clara, my dear, you'd better go in
by yourself first, and then when the time's
up, the warder will let you know.'

All this had been pre-arranged between
them, but Rosita played her part much
better than Maraquita had the power todo.
Her large eyes glanced up almost
appealingly when No. 14 was reached,
and the gaoler's keys rattled in the door,

and had not her companion pushed her
into the cell, she would have turned round
and run away. But it was done, and her
retreat was cut off. She stood in the same
room as Henri de Courcelles.

Friends for No. 14,' sung out the
warder, as he opened the door ; ' only
fifteen minutes allowed, so make the most
of them.'

Henri de Courcelles looked up in
amazement as the order sounded on his
ear. He knew of no friends to visit him
in his trouble. He was sitting in a small
whitewashed room, which contained a
pallet, a table, and a couple of wooden
chairs. His day's rations were before him,
but he had not touched them. He was
still in his usual attire, for it had not
been thought worth while to put him into
prison clothes, and notwithstanding an
unshorn face and unkempt hair, he was

looking as handsome  perhaps handsomer,
than ever, for disorder suited his gipsy
style of beauty. As he caught sight of
Maraquita's shrouded and veiled figure, he
started a little, but he never supposed fora
moment it could be she, until she lifted
her veil, and gazed at him with scared and
mournful eyes.

Henri,' she exclaimed, in a piteous
voice, ' I have come to see you ! '

In her vanity, she had believed she had
only to stand before him, and look
miserable, to bring him to her feet again.
She had forgotten the deadly insult she had
put upon the man by marrying Sir Russell
Johnstonee ; the lies with which she had
attempted to deceive him to the very end ;
the treachery by which she and her mother
had procured his dismissal from Beauregard.
She trusted, like many another
jf her sex, too much to the power of

her beauty to sway the minds of men.
But mere loveliness cannot supply the
place of truth and fidelity, and she had
become nothing in the eyes of her former
lover but a whited sepulchre, and was
the last person upon earth he desired
to see. He sprang to his feet as her
voice fell on his ear, and looked at her
with ineffable scorn.

You have come to see me and why } '

Oh, Henri, how can you ask .' Do
you think I am made of stone, that I
have entirely forgotten '. When I saw
you amongst those terrible mutineers last
night, it nearly killed me.'

It's a pity it didn't quite kill you,'
he replied, ' for women such as you
are not fit to live ! Do you know why
I was there,  why I headed their numbers,
and incited them on to rebellion
and slaughter ?  in order that I might

kill you,  in order that you should not

live to deceive other men, and drive

them to desperation, as you have driven

me.'

Oh, Henri, Henri,' she exclaimed,
panting with fear, * you are raving 1
You would not injure me I Think,
Henri, think of the hours I have lain
with my head on your breast and my
lips to yours ; think how you have
loved me,  of the tie between us, and
I am sure that you would die sooner
than hurt a hair of my head.'

Think of it I ' he repeated, with a
bitter laugh ; * haven't I thought of it
until it has turned my brain, and made
me lust for your blood ? To think
of all your professions of love, and how
they have ended, is to hate and despise
you. The tie between us I It
had better die, and rot where it lies.

than grow up with one tithe of its
mother's falsehood. No, Maraquita, the
time for my belief in you is past. If
you came here to hear compliments, you
have wasted your time, for I have nothing
but loathing and hatred to give you.'

Oh, Henri ! ' she said, shivering,
with her face hidden in her hands,
don't speak to me like that ! I will
go away, and never attempt to cross
your path again, only promise me that
neither you nor your friends shall hurt
me. It was not my fault, indeed it
wasn't. I married at the command of
my parents, and I have been so miserable
since, Henri. I have dreamt of
you almost every night, and longed
to see you again. Oh, don't look at
me like that ! Kiss me, and say you
forgive me, or I shall never know another
happy moment'

Kiss you ! Forgive you / ' he repeated
witheringly. 'Never! Neither
in this Hfe, nor the Hfe to come.
You escaped me last night, Maraquita,
but you shall not escape me for ever.
I have sworn to have your life, in
return for all that was precious to mein
mine, and I will have it yet. I
only bide my time.'

Then her fancied passion died out
beneath his threats and blazing eyes,
and she turned and taunted him with
his inability to carry out his intentions.

You will have my life ? What are
you thinking of, to talk in so absurd
a manner ? Do you forget where you
are ? Are you aware that you will be
brought up for trial tomorrow morning,
and that if I give the Governor
one hint of this conversation, sunset
will see your execution. How will you

be able to carry out your threats
against me then ? '

And so this is the woman who will
never know another happy moment without
my forgiveness ! ' he returned sarcastically,
 ' who can calmly contemplate
my possible execution as the means of
her own deliverance, and hint that she
may expedite it! I thank you, madam,
for showing me your true nature so
openly, else I might have been weak
enough, in these last moments, to believe
you had really preserved some little feeling
for the man who should have been
your husband. But I have a word to
say to you in return. I shall not die
tomorrow  I shall live until I have the
weapon in my hand wherewith to strike
you down. And then I shall not care
how soon I go too. But in hell, Mara-quite
 even in hell  I shall be beside

you, to haunt you with the treachery
which sent us both there.'

Oh, have pity !  have pity on me ! *
she cried, upon her knees.

I have no pity,' he answered, in a low
voice ; * and I shall have none. You
have left me only one feeling with regard
to you,  determination to carry out
my revenge. When I think of it, I feel
as if I had the strength of ten thousand
devils in me, and could tear these walls
asunder with my bare hands, and set
myself free, only to be revenged on
you.'

Time's up,' called the warder from
outside the door.

Henri, will you not speak one word
to me ?  give me one look before I go ? '
wailed Marquisate

advanced upon her with the eyes
of a demoniac.

Speak to you ? Look at you ? ' he
exclaimed. 'What have I to say to you
that I have not already said ? Leave
this cell, as you value a few more days'
existence, or I shall tear you to pieces
where you stand.'

And at the sight of his uplifted hands
and glowering eyes, Maraquita gave a
low cry, and hastened through the open
doorway.

Not a very pleasant interview, I
guess,' observed the warder, as Quita
walked down the stone passage again,
sobbing as if her heart would break,
and clinging to Rosita's arm. ' I
told you you'd better not see him.
He's more mad than sane, and I was
half afraid he might do you some
harm.'

Is there,' demanded Maraquita, as
soon as she could command her voice

sufficiently to speak, * is there any chance
of his being able to escape from prison ? '

The gaoler laughed.

'Escape ? Well, no. I wouldn't set
my heart on that, if I was you, miss.
'Twould take a better man than he 
though he's a powerful fellow, too  to
break through these walls, when he's
once inside them. He'll never leave
them again, unless it's by the Governor's
orders  you may take your oath of
that.'

At Rosita's house, Jessica received her
weeping young mistress again, and conducted
her safely back to her own apartments
; but it was long before Maraquita
could make up her mind whether she
should speak to Sir Russell on the subject
of De Courcelles or not. Some
suspicion might attach to her doing so,
though she trusted to her native cunning

to make a good story of it. But
if she said nothing, and the court took
a lenient view of the part he had maintained
in the mutiny, Henri de Courcelles
might be set at large again, and
accomplish his wicked designs upon her
life. The love of living, so strong in
every human breast, finally outweighed
all other considerations, and Maraquita,
after a night of painful deliberation, asked
Jessica to summon Sir Russell to her
side.

The Governor, unused to such amenities
on the part of his bride, came with
alacrity, and full of tender solicitude for
the apprehension and terror she had
passed through.

'You must try and dismiss it all from
your mind now, my darling, for the
danger is really past. We try the
mutineers to-day, and I have very little

VOL. III. L

doubt of the sentence which will be
passed upon them.'

There is one  the man who spoke
to me the other night,' said Maraquita,
trembling; 'what will they do to him?'

The Governor frowned.

You mean the ringleader ? I cannot
tell ; but if / had to decide, I should
say that hanging was too good for him.
Why do you ask, my dear? Surely you
are not interested in his fate.'

Oh, no, no ! I am afraid of him,'
replied his wife. * He was papas overseer
once, and he  he  presumed to fall
in love with me ; and because  because
I married you instead, he has sworn to
kill me ; and he will, Sir Russell, I
am sure he will, if they let him go
free 1 '

He shall not go free!' exclaimed her
husband indignantly. * Such outrages

from the half-caste population against
European settlers are not to be tolerated.
I am glad you have told me this, Quita ;
it will go greatly against him, if the
court should be disposed to show him
any favour.'

Oh, do send him away  get rid of
him at all risks. He frightens me. I
shall die of fear,' she whispered, clinging
to Sir Russell's arm.

He shall never frighten you again,
my darling. I will take care of that,'
replied the Governor decidedly, as he
pressed her to him. But as he was
embracing her, Jessica entered the
bedroom, with an official paper.

Orderly from Fort bring for Governor,'
she ejaculated.

Sir Russell glanced over its contents.

Good heavens ! ' he cried, * he has
escaped us ! *

Who  who ? ' demanded Marquisate

very man you were speaking
of  Henri de Courcelles. He has
broken, by some miraculous means, out
of his prison cell, and is missing. I
must order out the mounted police at
once to follow him. Don't be afraid,
Maraquita. It is impossible that he
can escape the vigilance of the law, in
such a little place as San Diego.'

He will  he will !' exclaimed the unhappy
girl, as her husband rushed out
of the room. ' He will live, as he said,
to murder me.' And with that she fell
back unconscious on her pillows.

HE account of the attempted
massacre at Government House
reached Lizzie through Mr
Courtney ; but he did not tell her that
Henri de Courcelles had been arrested
as one of the mutineers. He knew that
she had regarded his late overseer with
affection, and he wanted to spare her the
pain of the suspense of learning his fate.
It would be time enough, he thought,
for her to mourn when her friend had
been tried and condemned. But his kind
consideration was wasted, for the news
came to her by means of the yellow girl,

Rosa, who burst Into her presence on
the day of De Courcelles' escape from
the Fort prison, brim full of the intelligence.


Oh, Missy Liz ! car's grand news
come from Government House. De Fort
prison doors is bust open, and dey's all
gone  ebbery one of dem mutineers, and
Massa Courcelles, he gone wit them.'

Monsieur de Courcelles I ' exclaimed
Lizzie, hardly believing her ears. ' What
are you talking of, Rosa ? '

'Tes' God's truth, Missy Liz. Massa
Courcelles de ringleader ob all de mutiny
dat's what William Hall, dat hab ses'
come from de Fort, say ; and dey take
him prisoner ob Tuesday night, and put
him in cell, and dis morning he was to
be tried by 'martial ; but he's clean gone,
and de mounted police am scouring San
Diego for him.'

De Courcelles amongst the rebels ! '
repeated Lizzie. ' This, then, is what
he meant by his revenge. Oh, that it
had been in my power to save him from
falling so low ! '

But dat ain't all, Missy Liz ; dere's
more to come. William Hall say de
police catch sight of Massa Courcelles
over de gully, close by Shanty Hill,
and he 'scape them again, and run
straight for de Alligator Swamp.'

'He did not enter it?' cried Lizzie,
turning pale.

Oh, didn't he, though ? De police
gallop after him, and he run same like
deer, and jump ,de fences, and go squash
right in de swamp, where de bosses
couldn't follow him, 'cause of de morass.
And William say when Massa
Courcelles get on edge of swamp, he
turn and wave his hand, and hollo, and

dive In bushes. And den de police see
no more of him ; but dey is waiting
dere now, horses and all, till he come
out again. But Massa Courcelles nebber
come out again, Missy Liz. Dat what
all de niggers say ; alligator and swamp
take him pretty quick, and got him now,
maybe, de bad fellow ! '

Lizzie did not answer her chattering
handmaid, except by asking, 

What time is it, Rosa ? '

Tes' gone tree, Missy Liz.'

And when did this happen ? I mean
when did the police lose sight of Monsieur
de Courcelles in the Alligator
Swamp ? '

Eleven o'clock, missy.'

Four hours' said Lizzie to herself.
God help him ! What can I do ? '

She began turning over the contents
of a medicine-chest as she thought thus,

and pouring the liquid from one bottle
into the other, in an apparently mechanical
manner.

Rosa ! ' she said suddenly, turning to
her open-eyed attendant, ' I am going
out presently, and I may be detained
longer than I anticipate. Take great
care of baby whilst I am away, and
put her to sleep in your own room
to-night. Do you understand me ? '

Yes, yes, Missy Liz.'

She watched her mistress array herself
in her walking things, and take
down a broad sombrero hat, and a long
cloak, which had belonged to her father,
from the cupboard where they hung,
and place brandy and a bottle of quinine,
and strong smelling-salts and camphor
in the basket she hung upon her arm.
These proceedings only excited Rosa's
curiosity ; but when Lizzie went on to

load a revolver and place it in her
belt, and take a huge staff in her hand,
the yellow girl could contain herself no
longer, but cried out, 

Oh, Missy Liz, Missy Liz ! what
you going to do with all dem things ? '

Dare I trust you ? ' said Lizzie,
turning her grave, pale face towards her.
Will you be faithful and keep my
secret if I tell you what I am going
to do ? '

Missy Liz, / will !' replied Rosa
solemnly. ' I knows I'se berry bad gal
to you once. I said dreadful things what
I didn't mean ; but I'se only ignorant
yellow gal, Mis Liz, and I didn't think
how bad I was. But Massa Norris, he
make me promise when he go 'way
that I'd be good faithful servant to you,
and take great care of you, and he'd
bring me lubly dress from England

next time he come ; and I would do it,
Missy Liz, without de dress, and only
because I love you for all you done
for me.'

I believe you, and I will confide in
you, for I must have a friend to help
me. Rosa, I am going to the Alligator
Swamp to try and find Monsieur de
Courcelles.'

De Alligator Swa77zp /' Oh, Missy
Liz ! you nebber going there ? You
can't walk dere for de swamp, nor de
thorn bushes ; and de green slime ahab
a smell what chokes you. Missy,' continued
Rosa earnestly, ' even a nigger
can't stay dere. You will lose your
way directly  dere's no path to guide
you ; and de alligators is awful. Dey kill
you directly dey see you. Oh, Missy
Liz, for God's sake, don't try to go ! '

Listen to me, dear Rosa. / must

go! It is of no use to try and stop
me. Monsieur de Courcelles has been
very wicked, no doubt  I don't defend
his conduct  but once I loved him Rosa,
and a woman can never quite forget
the man she has loved.'

No, dat's true, missy. Juan want
me to marry him, but I keep thinking
too much ob that rascal sailor boy what
was de fader of my poor leetel Carlo 
Dat's truth,' answered Rosa, shaking
her black curls.

Well then, perhaps you can understand
a little what I feel now, Rosa.
Monsieur de Courcelles is in fearful
danger. I know his spirit. He will
never come out of the swamp to be taken
prisoner again. He will faint from the
fumes of the fearful miasma first, and
sink for ever in the morass, or he
will cast himself before the first cayman

In his path. I may not find him, or
I may be too late to give him any
assistance, but I must try. I have the
proper medicines here to counteract the
effect of the swamp, for him and myself;
and if I find him, I think with this
disguise I may get him safely out again
without attracting the notice of the
police. I shall not go by Shanty
Hill, Rosa. I shall make my way
round by the Miners' Gulch. There is
an entrance there at the back of the
Sans Souci plantation.'

And if you find him. Missy Liz  what
den ? ' inquired the yellow girl.

Ah, Rosa ! that is where I shall want
your assistance and your fidelity,' replied
her mistress. * If I find him, I must bring
him here, and hide him from the police
until I can get him safely away from
the island.'

Dat berry dangerous work, Missy
Liz.'

I know it, but how can I do otherwise
? Could I let the man whom I once
believed would be my husband, perish in
the Alligator Swamp, without an attempt
to rescue him ; or deliver him up to die
a murderers death upon the gallows,
as long as I can keep him from it ? '
Oh, Rosa, Rosa!' cried Lizzie, weeping,
' it is the same with all of us, white
and black alike. Love  although a love
that is dead and over  sanctifies everything,
and claims a certain duty even
for its ashes.'

The yellow girl did not understand
her mistress's words, but her tears appealed
to her heart, and she cried with
her.

Yes, Missy Liz, I understand. Dat's
ses' same like me and de sailor fellow.

But you must take great care of yourself,
Missy Liz. You must be berry 'titular
where you step, and how you go, and
keep a sharp look-out for de alligators.
Dey berry cowardly. Missy Liz. Dey
frightened of noise, and dey can't run
no ways ; so if you don't tread right
on dem, you're all right.'

Yes, yes, Rosa ! I know that, and
I will take every possible caution,' replied
Lizzie. And then she kissed the
baby, and kissed Rosa, and walked
bravely off, as though she had been
going on her daily rounds.

The Alligator Swamp was situated ina
deep gorge or valley between two high
hills, and was simply a stagnant bog,
thickly clothed with poisonous vegetation 
indeed no healthy trees or bushes could
have existed in such an atmosphere. The
fatal upas tree spread its thick branches

over the morass, sheltering deadly fungi
of orange, and red, and white. Thorny
bushes were matted and interlaced about
it, so that had there been a solid
foundation to the Alligator's Swamp,
it would have been impossible to
force one's way through, or find a path
whereon to tread. The only resting-place
for one's feet consisted of the
logs and trunks of decayed trees, which
had dropped, rolling into the slime, and
choked it up. But they were treacherous
paths, as may be well imagined, and it
was difficult, in the semi-darkness, to
distinguish them from the carmen  the
largest and fiercest breed of alligators 
from which the swamp derived its name.
These creatures lay on the top of the
slimy deposit, just like rugged brown
logs in appearance, until a sound or a
touch caused the apparently inert mass

to move, and a ferocious head, with
two diamond bright eyes, and an enormous
mouth, with cruel fangs, rose up
suddenly and snapt its jaws over its
unsuspecting prey. For there was no
real daylight in the Alligator Swamp.
The branches of the trees were so
thickly interlaced overhead that the sun
had no chance to penetrate them and
cleanse the Augean Stable with his
health-giving rays ; and so the decaying
vegetation and the slime had festered on
together for years past, and the carmen
had bred and flourished there, until
the boldest negro of them all considered
it certain death to breathe
the air which they inhaled. If the
foolhardy creature who attempted to
traverse the swamp were not immersed
in the stinking mud, or seized by the
hungry alligators, he was bound after a

VOL. III. M

little while to sink down, giddy and
intoxicated from inhaling the various
poisons around him, and so fall a prey
to either one or the other. Lizzie
Fellows was perfectly conscious of the
terrible risk she ran,  more so, perhaps,
than most women would have been, for
her father had fully explained the dangers
of the swamp to her, and warned her
off its precincts. She knew that the
reason runaway negroes and escaped
prisoners took refuge in the Alligator
Swamp was not because they sought
safety in it, but because they preferred
death by its horrors to giving themselves
up to the law. They knew they
went to their grave when they entered
it, but they knew also that the police
would refuse to follow them there, and
that they would be left to die alone
and unmolested. She had a long walk

to take before she reached it. She was
anxious to meet no one who should
inquire her errand, or try to prevent
it, and so she took a circuitous route to
Sans Souci, and crept round the back
of the plantation until she came to a
clump of dense underwood, through
which she knew a path led to the fatal
spot. She tied a handkerchief steeped
in some disinfectant across her mouth
and nostrils as she entered it, and
then, with a short prayer to God for
protection and success, went bravely on.
She carried a knife in her hand, with
which she sliced the bark of the trees
as she walked along, for she was afraid
of losing her way altogether, and perhaps
never finding the sunlight again ; but for
the first few minutes the Alligator Swamp
seemed to be a harmless place enough.
The grass beneath her feet was bright

and green, from the humidity of the
atmosphere and the shade of the trees,
but the first indication of danger was
given by her foot suddenly sinking in
wet soil up to her ankle. She drew
it back quickly, and commenced to walk
more slowly, and tapping the ground
before her with the stout stick she held
in her hand, before she ventured to tread
on it. Her heart beat fast at times
as a rustle in the bushes betrayed the
presence of a rattlesnake  about the only
living thing that shared the swamp with
the alligators  or a splash in the surrounding
vegetation proved she was
approaching the haunts of the carmen.
Still she went on, picking her way over
the morass, or skirting it by means of
the rotten trunks that lay across it, and
swayed and rolled as she mounted them,
as if they would give way beneath her

weight, and let her fall into the slimy
pool they floated on. Soon she began to
feel the effects of the mephitic vapours
with which the place abounded, and had
recourse to her smelling-salts, to prevent
her becoming giddy. All this time Lizzie
had kept up a continual note from a
whistle she had hung about her neck,
and at intervals she had called upon
Henri de Courcelles by name. As she
advanced to the centre of the swamp
the daylight seemed to be entirely excluded,
and she lighted a lantern which
was tied at her girdle. With her staff
in one hand and her revolver in the
other she now began to pick her way
step by step, her heart sinking with
fear and disappointment as she went.
For not a sound came in answer to her
whistle or her call. The profoundest
silence reigned in the Alligator Swamp.

The stench of the decaying vegetation
was more and more apparent, and the
only hight by which she walked was
the feeble glimmer thrown In advance
from the little lantern at her waist. It
was a situation to appal the bravest
spirit. Once she stepped forward almost
confidently, and placed her foot
on a broad bridge, formed, as she
believed, of the corrugated trunk of a
fallen tree, but as she touched It It
sank beneath the slime, and rose again
Immediately with two fierce twinkling
eyes and an open jaw full of pointed
teeth, to confront her.

Lizzie flew backward with a scream of
terror, and, clinging with one arm to
the branch of a tree, discharged her
revolver full In the reptile's face. The
bullet was probably battered against Its
impervious hide, but thf shot had the

desired effect of friofhteninof the alligator
back into its home of some. It had
another, and more unforeseen effect. It
reached the senses of an almost unconscious
man, who had sudden into a
sitting position beside some bushes, buta
few yards off, and rouse him from his
sleep of death. The sound of the shot
conveyed but one idea to his mind, however,
 that his pursuers had penetrated his
asylum, and were close at hand to capture
him ; and with the intention to defy them
to the last, he staggered to his feet, and
set his back against a tree. The tall
figure clothed in white became apparent
in the surrounding twilight, and when
Lizzie raised her eyes from the spot
where the cayman had disappeared from
view, it was to fix them on the form
of Henri de Courcelles. She uttered
a cry of pleasure at the discovery,

which sounded to him like a note of
victory.

Stand off! ' he exclaimed loudly ; ' shoot
me like a man if you will, but don't
attempt to touch me with your accursed
fingers, or I will dive into the swamp
and escape you.'

He was about to put his suicidal threat
into execution, when Lizzie stepped quickly
across the yielding earth which separated
them, and stood by his side.

Henri ! ' she ejaculated, as she clutched
at his clothes with her hand and held him
back.

He turned and stared at her.

Lizzie ! ' was all he could say.

Yes, it is I,' she answered simply.

At that his senses appeared to return
to him. His astonishment at seeing
her was so great, that he pulled
himself together, as a drunken man

will sometimes do, under special circumstances.


Lizzie  here ! ' he repeated. ' But what
made you come to such a place '. Do
you know that you are courting certain
death, and that every moment may be
your last ? Go back at once ! Don't stay
here another instant! You were mad
to think of such a thing.'

I am going back, and at once,' she
answered quickly, ' but you must come
with me.'

I cannot. The police are waiting forme
outside, and I will die here sooner
than deliver myself into their hands.'

She disengaged the wallet of medicines
which she had carried on her back, and,
pouring out a mixture of brandy and
quinine, held it to his lips.

Drink this, Henri, and listen to me.
I have come here expressly to find you

and save you, and you must trust yourself
to me. The police shall not take
you. They are waiting by Shanty
Hill, and I know a secret outlet by
Miners' Gulch. But we must leave this
pestiferous atmosphere at once, or it maybe
fatal to both of us.'

He clung to her like a child to its
mother.

You can save me ! ' he exclaimed. * Oh,
my good angel ! why did I ever desert
you?'

Hush ! Don't speak of that now.
Think of nothing excepting the best
means to get out of this dreadful place.
Drink some more brandy, and inhale
this ammonia. That is right. Pull yourself
together, and follow me closely. I
will go first, and lead the way.'

She pulled him forward as she spoke,
and mechanically he followed her. Step

by step they went, very slowly and
cautiously at first, and then faster, as the
dusky twilight spread itself out, and the
gleams of sunshine penetrated at intervals
the dense foliage, and turned its neutral
tints into living green. On they went,
she in front with her staff and revolver,
and he, behind, only half comprehending
what had occurred to him, until they
reached the thicket which abutted on
the Sans Souci plantation, where he sank
down upon the grass, with a low moan
of exhaustion. Lizzie was busy with
her wallet directly. She had anticipated
that as soon as the excitement was over
he would succumb to the strain he had
passed through  for the Spanish Creoles
have not strong constitutions, and had
provided the necessary remedies against
it. It was some little time before Henri
de Courcelles fairly understood what had

happened to him, and then his gratitude
knew no bounds.

Am I really safe, and with you ? '
he murmured. ' What have I done to
deserve such goodness at your hands ? '

You are clear of that terrible swamp,
Henri ; but you are not by any means
safe yet ; and if you would be, you must
follow out my instructions to the letter.
See here! I have an old cloak and
sombrero which belonged to my poor
father. I left them under this tree when
I entered the swamp. We will wait here
quietly until it is a little darker, and then
you must put them on, and come home
to the bungalow with me, and I will conceal
you there until you can find some
means of leaving San Diego.'

But how will that be possible, Lizzie ?
The bills must be out by this time, putting
a price upon my head, and every

nigger in the island will be turned into
an amateur detective, in the hope of being
able to claim the reward.'

Oh, don't let us think of that now ! '
replied Lizzie wearily. ' The chief thing
at present is to restore your vitality. It
is a blessing you are still alive, Henri.
Eat and drink what I have brought for
you, and thank God you can do it in
safety. Nothing will harm you here.'

And you actually came in search of
me, alone and unprotected ? ' he said,
looking at her with the deepest admiration.
' You braved the dangers of this
awful place,  ran the risk of a terrible
death, and all for me -for me, who have
treated you so badly ! Oh, hlzzle, continued
Henri de Courcelles, seizing her
hand, ' if the devotion of the life you
have rescued can atone to you, it will.'

But she drew her hand away hastily 

almost with repugnance  from his clasp.
Was it not that of a would-be murderer ?
Henri she replied quietly, though
her voice shook, ' you must never speak
to me again like that I have done what
you say, and I thank Heaven, who has
crowned my efforts with success ; but it
was done for the sake of the Past, not
of the Present; and nothing in the Future,
except the knowledge that your life has
been saved for better things, can ever
repay me. I have been shocked beyond
measure at what I have heard concerning
you. You have steeped your hands,
or would have done so, in the blood of
innocent victims, for the sake of carrying
out an unworthy revenge on the
daughter of your benefactors. It was a
crime which would make any honest
person shrink from you, which would
make most people consider that a death

on the gallows, or in the Alligator
Swamp, was your just deserts. But I
cannot forget, Henri. Ever since I have
known your relations with my adopted
sister, I have ceased to desire your affection
; but I cannot forget that I once
valued it, and to think of your being
sent out of the world without the opportunity
to repent, was very terrible tome.
That is why I have run this risk
to save you, and why I am thankful I
have succeeded. But don't speak of love
to me again, or you may make me sorry
instead of glad.'

There was a calm, reasonable determination
in her voice as she spoke, that
brought conviction home to Henri de
Courcelles' mind. He saw it plainly now.
He had not only lost her love,  he had
forfeited her respect and her esteem ;
and as the truth smote home to

him, the unwonted tears rose to his

eyes.

Why didn't you leave me in the
swamp ? ' he murmured. * I had better
have remained there, to become the prey
of the alligators, than Hve under your
contempt. Let me go back,' he continued,
starting to his feet, ' for your
words have taken all my courage out of
me, and I would rather die a thousand
deaths by my own hand than fall into
those of my enemies, and swing like a
malefactor from the Fort gates.'

'You shall do neither!' exclaimed Lizzie,
as she caught his arm, and drew him
down to her side again. ' Come, Henri,
be reasonable. Remember I am your
friend, and have thought out the whole
plan of your escape. Put on this cloak
and sombrero. See how completely they
disguise you, and cover you from head

to foot. The only thing we have to
dread now is lest some acquaintance
should meet and question me ; but that
is very unlikely, as this is the general
dinner hour for all Europeans, and I
will take you home by an unfrequented
path.'

But when I reach your bungalow,
Lizzie, what will Rosa say ? '

I have been obliged to take Rosa
into my confidence, Henri, but she will
not betray you. As for the rest, leave
it to me, and I believe that, with
Heaven's aid, I can bring you out of
this strait.'

'You are too good to me,' he said
brokenly ; ' and I place myself altogether
in your hands. Lead on, Lizzie, as you
think best, and I will follow.'

No, Henri ; we will walk side by
side. It will be much better, in case of

VOL. III. N

an encounter with any one who knows
us, that I should show a perfect fearlessness
in the matter. Take my staff
in your hand, and sling the wallet across
your shoulder. Then we shall look as
if we had been searching the country
for herbs for medicinal purposes ; and I
will gather a bundle of leaves, in order
to carry out the delusion. That is right.
Now come with me, and let us step out
manfully together.'

They traversed the couple of miles
that lay between them and Beauregard,
without encountering anything more formidable
than a few negroes sauntering
along the road as they returned from
work. But as they approached the
plantation, the danger of discovery became
more imminent, and Lizzie conducted
her companion to her bungalow
by a circuitous route.

It was reached at last, however, and
as De Courcelles sank into one of the
familiar chairs in the sitting-room, he
fel Hke a man who has been delivered
from the very jaws of death to be suddenly
transported into paradise.

But you must not rest here, Henri,'
whispered Lizzie, as she quickly closed
all the jalousies. * Mr Courtney or one
of the hands might enter at any moment.
There would be continual risk of
discovery.'

Where, then ? ' he demanded, in the
same tone.

In my dear father's bedroom. It has
never been opened since his death, and
you are not likely to be disturbed there.
You know what these silly, superstitious
natives are. They would not enter a
chamber where a death has occurred, to
save their lives. They would be fearful

of encountering my dear father's
wraith. You see now my object in
dressing you up in his cloak and hat.
If any of our negroes had seen you, he
would probably have run shrieking to
his hut, to spread the report that the
Doctor's ghost was walking about
Beauregard. You must remember to
keep up the idea, should any unforeseen
risk occur. But here, for a few days at
least, I believe you will be safe,' continued
Lizzie, as she unlocked the door
of her late father's apartment, ' until I
can get you away from the island. You
will have to be my prisoner,' she added
playfully ; ' and I shall lock you in, and
bring you your meals at the stated
times. But keep the jalousies bolted
inside night and day, and try to do
with as little light as possible, to avoid
attracting attention. You will find all

my dear father's wardrobe in the cupboard
here. Use it as you think best,
and try and be contented under the
restraint, and thankful (as I am) that
Heaven has spared your Hfe to you.'

He turned round as he crossed the
threshold, and sank on his knees before
her.

You have forbidden me to speak of
love,' he ejaculated, ' but I must say something
to express my gratitude. You have
indeed heaped coals of fire on my head !
You have done what no other living
creature, male or female, would have done ;
you have risked your life and safety forme,
who have treated you worse than anyone
else. Let me say Heaven bless you
for it, Lizzie. I feel if there is a hell
beyond the one we suffer here, that mine
will be to remember always the terrible
mistake I made in allowing a woman's

personal beauty to blind me to the virtues
of the friend whom I now feel I
have loved and honoured above all the
world.'

He took her hand and kissed it as he
spoke, and Lizzie was not ashamed to let
her tears fall freely on them both.

I am glad now, Henri,' she uttered
falteringly, ' and I shall be glad in the
days to come to think over the words you
have just said, and to remember that you
knew me for your true friend. There are
different kinds of love from the one we
once thought we felt for each other 
and perhaps better ones  and something
of the sort I shall never cease to feel for
you. And if you think you owe me
gratitude, Henri  if you would repay me
let it be by abandoning all ideas of revenge
and murder for the future. Don't let me
have the terrible self-reproach that I have

wasted my affection on one so utterly unworthy
of it.'

I have taken a different oath, Lizzie,
but I will rescind it, for your sake, and
here on my knees I swear to you that
if I am spared to escape the gallows, I
will abandon all ideas of revenge in the
future. After all, Maraquita is but a
false woman, not worthy of a man's
revenge. There are dozens such : the
world is peopled with them.'

She is the woman you loved, Henri,'
replied Lizzie gravely, ' and therefore she
is the woman you should always be most
lenient to. But she has passed out of
your world, and the kindest thing you
can do for her and yourself is to forget
her. But you must not talk of such
exciting topics to-night. It may be sometime
before you shake off the effects of
the poisonous vapours you have inhaled.

Go to rest now, and sleep without fear.
I will guarantee that no one shall disturb
your slumbers.'

De Courcelles took her advice, and
flung himself, exhausted through excitement
and fatigue, upon the late Doctor's
bed, whilst she, with a divine light, almost
akin to maternal solicitude, upon her
countenance, took a seat in the outer room,
and prepared to watch all night against
a possible surprise for the man she held
prisoner.

UT from that moment Lizzie
had not a moment's peace.
She dreaded everything and
everybody. Each casual visitor she believed
to be a spy, and the appearance
of a friend made her think that the
hour of discovery had come. Rosa made
her a thousand promises of fidelity, but
the yellow girl, though devoted to her
mistress's interests, was, after all, very
much like other women, and found it a
hard task to hold her tongue. The
whole time she was employed in exercising
the baby in the plantation,

was a season of torture to Lizzie, who
pictured her confiding the whole story
to her most intimate friend, under a
promise of inviolable secrecy. Meanwhile
Henri de Courcelles, though confined
to one room during the day time,
and only venturing out after dark by
means of the window, and with a disguise
on, was passing a fairly pleasant
time. The two women fed him royally,
and waited on him like servants, and
he held several conferences with Lizzie
as to the possibility of his getting down
to the Fort by night, and embarking
as a seaman on board one of the
Spanish crafts that lay in the bay of
San Diego. They would have carried
this plan, of which they had arranged
all the minutes together, into effect at
once, had it not been deemed advisable
that De Courcelles should lie perdtt

until It might be supposed by the
authorities that their prisoner had perished
beyond all doubt in the Alligator
Swamp. As soon as the guard of
mounted police who watched for him
outside the swamp was withdrawn, Lizzie
and De Courcelles decided that his first
attempt at an escape from the Island
should be made. He had been concealed
In the bungalow for two days
when Mr Courtney walked In one
morning and took a seat beside Lizzie.
The planter looked worn and anxious,
and as he removed his hat, and passed
his handkerchief across his brow, he
seemed to have grown older of late,
notwithstanding the brilliant marriage
that his daughter had made. The
words with which he opened the conversation,
had reference to Maraqulta.
Sir Russell and Lady Johnstonee have

come to stay with us at the White House,
Lizzie

Indeed, sir,' she replied. ' I suppose
Quita is nervous of staying at
Government House, after what happened
there last week. And I don't wonder
at it, poor girl ! I should be glad to
hear that the Governor had decided
to take her to England.'

So should we, my dear, and they
will go before long  there is no doubt
of that  only, it would hardly do for
the Governor to run away whilst the
island is in this state of ferment. But
he judged rightly in thinking that our
dear Maraquita would feel safer and
happier with her parents, and in her
old home. For she has received a
terrible shock, Lizzie, and it is telling
on her visibly. She seems ten years
older to me.'

Poor Ouita, she cannot fail to feel
it,' replied Lizzie, looking at the matter
in a totally different light from that
in which Mr Courtney regarded it.

Yes, and I wish I could think that
there was no further reason for her
fears. Lizzie, I have come here this
morning for one purpose only,  to persuade
you to return with me to the
White House.'

Lizzie started, and coloured.

Oh, Mr Courtney, I cannot. I
don't know why you want me there,
but unless it is in my capacity as
medical adviser, I must refuse. You
forget that Mrs Courtney ordered me
never to show my face there again.'

I can allow no feminine quarrels to
interfere with your safety, Lizzie ; and
it is to secure that that I beg of you
to take up your residence at my

house until these mutinous ideas have
been knocked out of the coolies
heads. I do not feel that you are
safe,  that we are, any of us, safe.
I begin to distrust even my own
hands, for whom I have done all in
my power.'

Mr Courtney, I appreciate your
kindness, but there are too many
reasons why I cannot accept it.'

Name them, my dear.'

I have named one already, sir.
Another is my infant charge. Do
you suppose I would desert here's'

Bring her with you. There is room
in the White House for us all.'

No, Mr Courtney,' she answered
proudly, ' it is impossible, I will not
take the child under the roof of the
very woman who has falsely accused
me of being its mother.'

But I am sure, Lizzie, that neither my
wife nor Maraquita really believe that story.'
And I am sure of it too, sir ; but
that only places their cruelty to mein
a more heinous light. Forgive me
for saying it, Mr Courtney, before you,
who have always been so good to me
and my poor father, but I will never
again place myself voluntarily in the
society of either Mrs Courtney or
Maraquita, until they have publicly acknowledged
that they have done mea
foul wrong.'

They have been very hard on you,'
sighed the planter ; ' but their conduct
cannot blind me to my duty. I cannot
consent to your remaining here,
Lizzie. The negroes may rise at any
moment, and this bungalow is in the
very midst of their quarters. I have
received secret information concerning

them, that has seriously alarmed me.
The general disaffection has spread
much further than I dreamt of, and
even the hands on Beauregard are believed
to be ripe for rebellion. Were
they to take it into their heads to rise,
what would you do ? '

Lizzie laughed at the idea.

In that case, sir  did I believe it
possible (which I can hardly do) that
your coolies could so utterly forget all
they owe to you  I should be much
safer here than in the White House.
Why should they harbour any resentment
against me ? They loved my dear
father, and I believe they love me for
his sake, and / have nothing to do
with their fancied causes for complaint.
If they do rise, which God forbid, it
will be the White House against which
they will make a raid.'

Ah, my dear child, long as you
have lived amongst them, you do not
know the negro nature as I do. Once
roused, he becomes a devil, and has no
power of distinguishing between friends
and foes. This bungalow will be the
first piece of my property which they
will have the opportunity of destroying,
and I feel sure they will not spare
it, nor perhaps even you. lizzie, I
beg, I implore of you to accept my
offer of protection, and transport yourself,
and all you value, to the White
House.'

But Lizzie was firm. She quailed a
little before the possible picture Mr
Courtney had conjured up,  before the
remembrance too of certain words of
Captain N orris, in which he had expressed
his own fears for her safety ;
but they had no power to alter her

VOL. III. o

determination. There was her poor
prisoner in the next room to them.
Guilty as he had proved himself to be,
she had promised him her protection,
and she would stand by him to the
last, even if they were doomed to perish
together. So she only shook her head,
and smiled, and continued stitching at
her work.

Your obstinacy is incredible to me,'
said Mr Courtney, half angrily, * and you
put me in a very unpleasant position.
I promised your father (as far as I
could) to supply his place to you. I
look on you as second only to my
own child, yet you refuse to accept
from me a father's protection, or to yield
me the obedience of a daughter.'

I am sorry to appear ungrateful to
you, Mr Courtney, but I have my own
reasons for remaining in my own home,

and your arguments have no power to
shake them. Pray don't be under any
further apprehension for me  I have
none for myself ; and if your workers are
disposed to mutiny, it is all the more
reason that I should remain amongst
them, and try to bring them to a better
frame of mind.'

Ah, I have heard of your attempts
in that direction already, Lizzie, and
that the coolies call you the angel of
Beauregard ! You are a good girl, my
dear, and may God reward you for all
you have done. I am only sorry that
fortuitous circumstances should have
laid this burden of secrecy upon you.
But cheer up ; the day will come, perhaps,
when it will be removed as unexpectedly
as it appeared. And no one
shall rejoice more when that day comes
than I shall, Lizzie.'

She sighed, but she answered nothing.
She knew that if the day he spoke of
ever dawned, it would be to bow her
benefactors head with shame.

And so all my entreaties are in vain . *
said Mr Courtney, as he rose to go.

Yes, sir ; I shall remain here ; and
honestly, I do not believe you have any
cause for fear.'

Yet she pondered over what he had
told her all that day, not from any dread
of her own safety, but endeavouring to
think of some plan for getting Henri
de Courcelles away before there was
any possibility of his detection. For
she felt that if the coolies on Beauregard
did rise, and proceed to incendiarism or
slaughter, Henri de Courcelles, who had
been their tyrannical master in the days
gone by, and their inciter to rebellion in
the present, would be the first victim of

their lawless passions. Her mind was
still running on the same subject when
the evening shadows closed, and Hugh
N orris unexpectedly walked into the
room.

Her first feeling at seeing him was
one of such unmitigated pleasure, that
she could not help betraying it.

Oh, Hugh  I mean, Captain Norris,'
she exclaimed, * are you really back
again ? I am so glad  I didn't think 
I was afraid that  ' and here she stopped,
blushing for her incoherency.

Are you really glad ? ' he said, taking
her hand, and warmly pressing it, whilst
his open countenance revealed his emotion.
* Have you felt my absence, Lizzie ?
Have our two months of separation
stretched themselves out to their full
term ? '

Indeed they have,' she answered ingenuously.

' I have been counting the
days till you should return. For we
have passed through a terrible time since
you left us. But perhaps you have
already heard of it.'

Indeed I have heard of it, Lizzie,'
he said gravely, * and I thank God that
it was no worse. What should I have
done had you been involved in this
horrible catastrophe ? But I am here,
and you are safe, and I will not leave
San Diego again until I take you with
me. Was I not right in my forebodings
? '

Partially so ; but you see that no one
has harmed me yet. What a quick
passage you have made this time, Captain
Norris.'

Very quick ; but you may imagine
that I wasted no more time in England
than I could help, Lizzie. I was not

out of sight of San Diego before I was
longing to get back again, and, thanks
to favourable winds, and an obliging
supercargo, I have made the double
passage in as short a time as is possible.
But I found time to accomplish
my heart's desire, all the same.'

What was that ? ' she demanded
curiously.

Do you remember the packet of
letters you threw me to read when we
last said good-bye, and you had to run
off to attend to some woolly infant or
other ? '

Yes, yes, I remember. It was
Mammy Chloe's baby,' she answered,
laughing.

The first letter I opened surprised
me more than anything has ever done
in my life before. It was from your
late father to Mr Courtney, and he

signed himself " Herbert Ruthin," and
wrote in familiar terms of his father
and mother, Sir William and Lady
Ruthin, and of their place in Scotland
Aberdare

'Well, well! of course; it was his own
home,' interrupted Lizzie impatiently.
Why should it have so greatly surprised
you ? '

Because, Lizzie, my mother (whose
maiden name was Mary Herbert) is a
second or third cousin of Lady Ruminant
when her ladyship came to Maidstone,
which is close to mother's home, a few
years ago, she called on us, and took
dinner at the cottage.'

Oh, Hugh, how very, very strange!'
cried Lizzie, forgetting etiquette in her
breathless surprise.

Yes, it is only another proof of how
small the world is, and how we are all

but one large family. I remembered Lady
Ruthin's visit to my mother distinctly,
and also that I had heard she had had
orreat trouble about her second son
Herbert, but I fancied he was dead.
When I learnt the truth from those letters,
I determined to see Sir William and
Lady Ruthin on my return to England,
and I did so.'

'You did!' echoed Lizzie; 'and, oh!
what did they say ? '

I was only at Aberdare two hours,
dearest,' replied Captain N orris, growing
bolder as he gained his advantage, ' but
it was long enough to serve my purpose.
I told them everything, Lizzie,  what a
good life your dear father had lived here,
expiating his youthful error by a course
of self-abnegation, and how like a martyr
he had died, stricken down by the exhaustion
consequent on his labours for

others. And I soon found that if their
pride and mortification have prevented
their speaking of their lost son for so
many years past, it has not been because
the love of him has faded from their hearts.
They concluded he was dead long ago,
but as I spoke of him, they were both
melted into tears, and reproached themselves
bitterly for not having employed
stronger measures to ascertain his fate.'

My poor darling father ! ' exclaimed
Lizzie, weeping ; ' how I wish he could
have had the comfort of knowing that
his parents felt for him.'

Doubtless he knows it now, dear.
But my story is not done yet, Lizzie.
When I had told Sir William and Lady
Ruthin all I knew about your father,
I spoke of you, and their excitement
became painful to witness. They are
longing to see you, my dear, and makeup

to you for all you have suffered on
account of your poor father's exile. I
am the bearer of a letter from them
begging you at once to return to England
and place yourself under their protection.
I shall see you in your proper position
at last, Lizzie, and reaping the reward
you so richly deserve. I cannot tell
you how proud and happy I feel to
have been made the instrument of this
change in your destinies.'

Lizzie looked up at him gratefully.

It was so good of you to think of
it,' she murmured ; ' but I can hardly
believe it yet. My dear father's parents !
They will seem like part of himself tome,
and especially if they cherish his
memory. And I shall owe it all to
you. What can I do for you in return,
Hugh?'

Only one thing, dear. Let me take

you back to England, and present you

to your grandparents as my wife.'

Did you  did you  say anything to
them about it ? ' she asked timidly.

Well, I gave them a hint on the
subject,' he answered, laughing; 'as far,
that is to say, as / am concerned  I
could not answer for you, you know,
because you have not yet answered for
yourself.'

And how did they take it ? '

They were good enough to say
that they would make no objection
whatever to me as your husband, provided
I gave up the sea and kept you
on dry land. And Sir William promised,
moreover, in that case, to help
me to obtain suitable employment. And
so you see, my dear, the conclusion
of the matter rests with you. What
is your answer ?'

She saw the deep hie honest eyes
gazing fondly into her own, and had
just placed her hand in his preparatory
to saying ' Yes,' when a loud unmistakable
cough sounded from the inner
room.

'What is that?' exclaimed Hugh
N orris, starting to his feet, his senses
always acutely alive to possible danger.
There is some one in your father's
bedroom. Stand aside, Lizzie, and let
me see who it is.'

He seized his stick  his only weapon
as he spoke, and was about to try the
locked door. But she interposed herself
between him and it.

You cannot enter that room, Captain
N orris. It is fastened.'

Then some one  a mutineer, perhaps
must have got in by the window* I
am certain my ears did not deceive

me. The sound we heard proceeded
from that room, and I must satisfy
myself on the subject.'

He was about to pass her, when she
put out her hand to prevent him, and
he observed how very pale and strained
her face (but a few moments ago so smiling)
had suddenly become.

Captain N orris, I hold this room
sacred to myself, and neither you, nor
any man, shall cross the threshold.'

He looked full at her then in his
amazement, and the truth seemed to
flash suddenly upon him.

You have been deceiving me ! ' he exclaimed
; * you have some one concealed
there whom you are ashamed to tell
me of! Who is it?' he continued, ina
low voice, which threatened danger, 
'that blackguard De Courcelles, who
would have slaughtered every European

In the Fort, if he had had his way, and
whom I hear has been in hiding ever
since ? '

Lizzie was silent. Twice her mouth
opened to utter a He in the defence of her
former lover, and twice it died unuttered
on her lips. Hugh N orris knew her too
well to misinterpret her want of courage.
He threw her one look of deep reproach,
and, turning away, sat down by the table,
and buried his face in his hands. Lizzie
could not withstand the action. She crept
after him, and laid her hand timidly upon
his shoulder.

Hugh,' she whispered, * Hugh  '

But he jerked the kindly touch away,
almost roughly.

Don't come near me.' he muttered,
Don't speak to me. You are false, and
you have destroyed all my faith In womankind.'


No, no, Hugh ! you shall not say
that of me. Listen, and I will tell you
everything. I should have told it you in
any case, for I sorely need your counsel
and advice, only we have had no time
as yet to speak of anyone but ourselves.
But you are good, and noble, and true,
and if you do not approve of my action,
you will at least not betray it. I will not
deceive you, and I think, when you know
all, you will acknowledge you would have
done the same. Henri De Courcelles is
in that room, a fugitive hiding from the
law ! No, don't look at me like that !
I call Heaven to witness he is not there
as my lover, but that I would have extended
the same succour to any fellow-creature
who threw himself upon my
mercy. Hugh ! I heard that he had
escaped from the Fort prison, and eluded
the pursuit of the police by taking refuge

in the Alligator Swamp. Could I have
left him there to perish by a miserable
death, without making one effort to save
him ? '

Captain N orris looked up at her in
amazement.

But what could you do ? ' he inquired.
Not a man in San Diego would venture
to penetrate the horrors of the swamp,
unless he wished to die.'

Yet a woman did,' she whispered.

lizzie, you do not mean to tell me
that you went yourself ?  that you risked
the awful dangers of the miasma and the
alligators, for the sake of this man, and
that you live to tell the tale ? '

The danger was not so great for meas
for another, Hugh, because I knew the
proper representatives to carry with me.
Anyway, I went, and I was successful. I
found this unhappy and misguided man

VOL. III. P

nearly unconscious from the effects of the
poisonous air he was inhaling, and I
brought him safely out of it, and have
hid him here for the last two days, until
I could devise some plan to get him away
from San Diego. Will you help me,
Hugh ? I know it is a great thing to
ask at your hands ; and I have not another
friend whom I would trust with
the secret ; but I shall not rest till I know
he is secure from suffering a malefactor's
death upon the gallows.'

He deserves it, Lizzie, if any one
ever did.'

I know it ! but if we all received our
deserts in this world, how badly we
should fare ! Hugh, you will believe me
when I tell you that such love as I
once entertained for Henri de Courcelles
is all past, and for ever. I see his character
in its true light at last,  as vindictive

and revengeful and untrue ! But
that does not alter the case that once
I thought him good enough to be my
husband, and mine is a heart that cannot
entirely forget ! '

What do you want me to do for
him, hlzziQ ? '

To get him down to the docks in
disguise, and ship him on board one of
the vessels there that are bound for
Spain or America. It would be cruel to
send him anywhere else. And if that
should be impossible to do all at once,
couldn't you let him stay on the Trevelyan
till you are able to send him
away ? ' continued Lizzie wistfully.

You ask me to do a very wrong and
dangerous thing, my dear,  to harbour
a rebel against the British Government,
and cheat the gallows of its just due.'

No, Hugh  to succour a wretched

fellow-creature, who was half driven to
madness by a woman's treachery, before
he dreamt of committing such a crime.
I cannot tell you all his story, but if
you knew it, you would pity him, as
I do

Nothing of the sort. I despise the
fool for having thrown away such a
heart as he had found in yours ! Why,
Lizzie ! you are a heroine, and the
noblest woman I ever met ! Well, and
suppose I become a traitor to my Queen
and country at your command, and help
this rascally lover of yours to escape
the ends of justice, what reward am I
to expect for the risk I shall run ? '

What reward do you want ? ' she
answered, smiling at him through her
tears. * You shall name it, Hugh, for I
see you are going to do this great and
generous thing for my sake, and hold

out a helping hand to your unfortunate
rival.'

Promise to become my wife, Lizzie !
Nothing short of that will quite satisfy
me of the purity of your benevolence for
De Courcelles  because I know your
nobility of character too well to think
you would ever bestow your hand on
one man whilst there was a remnant of
love left in your heart for another.'

You only do me justice there, Hugh ;
for if I am not true I am nothing.
Yes, I will be your wife, whenever you
choose to ask me, and (God helping mea
good and faithful one.'

And a loving one into the bargain ? '
he returned interrogatively. ' I will not
accept your hand without your heart,
Lizzie.'

Can any wife be good and faithful
if she is not loving, Hugh ? But

do not be afraid! / love you. Is that
enough ? *

Then come to my arms ! ' he exclaimed,
as he rose and held them out
to her. She was hesitating just a little,
not entirely from coyness, but because
it is so sweet to dally with our happiness
 when a low murmuring sound,
like the first menacing tones of thunder,
or the moaning of a sleuthhound when
it finds the trail, which evidently proceeded
from the negroes' quarters, made
them start asunder, and change colour.

What was that ? ' demanded Lizzie,
under her breath, as Hugh N orris
threw his arm round her for protection.

It is the groaning of a crowd,' he
answered. 'It is the first note of
mutiny. Lizzie, there is something
wrong ! For God's sake, let me take
you away from this.'

But she struggled to free herself.

If they are rising, Hugh, let me go to
them ! No one understands them as I
do ! Let me speak, and they will obey
me ! I can do with them as I like.'

But before he had time to put into
words his entreaty that she would resign
herself to his protection, a piercing
shriek seemed to rend the evening air,
and the next minute Rosa, the yellow
girl, rushed into the room, with Mara-quite's
infant in her arms.

Oh, Missy Liz,' she cried, ' what
have they done to my baby ? Dis
crowd of niggers is all crying' out for
dere rights, and down with de planters,
and I coming along, and dey pulled de
poor baby from my arms, and hit it onde
head with a stone. Oh, Missy Liz, I
couldn't help it ! I screamed to dem to
leave my poor baby alone ! But dey

call out 'tis Missy Quita's chile and
Massa Courcelles', and den dey strike
it again. And the baby's berry sick,
Missy Liz  berry sick, indeed,' continued
Rosa, weeping, and rocking the bundle
in her arms.

Give it to me,' said Lizzie calmly,
though her face was deathly white,
but not so white as that of Maraquita's
infant, which lay calm and peaceful in
the sleep of death, with a discoloured
bruise upon its little forehead, where
the cruel stone had struck it.

She is dead ! ' said Lizzie solemnly,
as she placed the body on the table.
She did not shed a tear as she did
so, but Hugh Norris, looking up at
her, marked the deep lines which suppressed
emotion had drawn upon her
forehead, and thought he had never
seen her look so stern before.

My poor little Mary,' she said, in a
low voice, as she gazed upon the infant's
dead form. ' This is the first-fruits
of the Beauregard rebellion, Hugh!
They have risen at last, and they will
not stop here ! What will become of
them all at the White House?'

We must give the alarm at once,'
said Captain Norris. * They may not
be prepared for this outbreak. But
Lizzie, I will not go and leave you
here ! If you wish your friends to
be put on their guard, you must come
with me.'

'It is too late,' she answered: 'they
are already upon us ! We should
only walk into their midst. Listen to
that '

She held up her finger, and Captain
Norris could distinctly hear the yelling
of a mob of coolies advancing on the

plantation, and see the flaming torches
which they carried in their hands,
whilst in another moment two or three
random shots proved that they were
carrying firearms, and prepared to use
them.'

The devils ! ' cried N orris. ' Is it
possible they can have the heart to
injure you after all you have done
for them ? '

No, no, massa ! ' exclaimed the yellow
girl ; * coolies never hurting Missy Liz ;
they love her too much for dat. Only
dey want revenge on Massa Courtney
and de Governor and Missy Quita.
Missy Liz, dey will fire de White
House for sure, and kill de Governor !
Hark! they hab passed oder side of
plantation. Dey go by Oleander Bungalow
to de big house, and nebber
come near Missy Liz at all.'

They have come near enough,
in kilHng my poor baby ! ' exclaimed
Lizzie, weeping, as she kissed the dead
child. * If they love me, why couldn't
they have spared her ? '

'Cause she belong to dat De Courcelles,
and grow up bad like him and
Missy Quita. Dat what dem trashy
niggers say,' replied Rosa, joining her
sobs to those of her mistress.

'Is it possible this child belongs to
Lady Johnstonee ? ' demanded N orris.

'Oh, hush, Hugh ! don't mention it,
even here ! ' said Lizzie. ' I have kept
the secret for her sake  not his ! '

Oh, my brave girl, your love has
indeed earned the martyr's crown ! ' he
answered, looking at her with the
deepest admiration and respect. ' But
hark, Lizzie ! Surely the mob have
turned this way.'

At that moment a kind of sudden
rush through the darkness outside was
followed by the entrance of Mr and
Mrs Courtney, with Maraquita and Sir
Russell Johnstonee ! The women were
in their evening dresses  half fainting
with fear, and their protectors were almost
as agitated as themselves.

Lizzie,' cried Mr Courtney, ' give us
shelter, for God's sake ! Hide us in your
rooms, and this murderous crew will not
dare to follow us there. They are fond
of you, Lizzie, and they will believe
what you say. Make them hear reason,
in Heaven's name ! or we shall all be
slaughtered before your eyes ! '

Quick ! quick ! in here ! ' she exclaimed,
as she thrust the whole party
into her own bedroom, and closed the
door. ' Go with them, Hugh,' she said,
when they had concealed themselves,

and let me brlnof these mutineers to
reason.'

*And leave you to fall a prey to their
baffled wrath, or become a billet for the
first bullet that strays this way, Lizzie
he answered tenderly. * No, my dear.
You have said you love me ; and If we
have to die, we will die together.'

Before she could answer him, a crew
of dusky faces were surrounding the
bungalow, blocking up the verandah,
pressing into the doors, and filling up
the framework of the windows.

What's de Gubnor and de planter ?
Is dem in hiding here ? ' they shouted.

Gib dem up. Missy Liz, or we must
enter de bungalow, and we doesn't want
to do dat. Gib dem up, missy, and
don't you be steered  no nigger hurting
one hair ob your head.'

I'm not afraid of you for myself, my

friends,' she exclaimed, standing out
boldly to the front, and facing the
crowd of rebels, ' for you have always
been good and kind to me ; but if you
love me, you will go away to your own
quarters, and leave my house alone ! '

Directly we finds de Gubnor and de
planter, Missy Liz. But we're sworn
to ruin dem, and we must do it  dat's
so!'

And de Gubnor's wife ! ' shrieked a
female voice, that might be heard allover
the bungalow. ' Dat gal what pretends
to be so good, and dat is de
modern of dat baby you keep. Missy
Liz. She and Massa Courcelles know
all about dat chile ; and I wish dey
could swing together ! '

Hush, Jerusha, hush ! Go away, and
keep your evil tongue to yourself!' cried
Lizzie.

Dat's true, and you know it, Missy
Liz. And de Governor shall know it,
too, and Massa Courtney, and all de
world, dat she am no better than de
poor coolie gals what go all wrong.'

*Jerusha, I implore you, for God's
sake ! ' commenced Lizzie again.

But before she could finish her entreaty,
Maraquita had pushed open the
bedroom door, and stood beside her,
pale and trembling, but not courageous,
except with the courage born of
despair.

'It is true ! ' she gasped, rather than
said, 'and I am ready to confess it.
No, Lizzie, don't try to prevent my
speaking. Everybody may hear me
now. I can suffer in secret no longer.
Father, I am not what you thought
me ! I am a sinful girl, and I have let
the burden of my shameful secret rest

on Lizzie's shoulders. These people
only say what is true. They hate me
for what I have done, and want to revenge
themselves on us all, for my sake.
Perhaps, now that I have confessed my
sin, they will pity and forgive me.'

She sunk exhausted with fear and
shame on Lizzie's shoulder as she finished
her recital. Sir Russell Johnstonee
and her parents were standing by, horror-struck
by what they had heard, and
forgetful of their own safety in the
agony of witnessing her humiliation.
But Lizzie was the only person who
addressed her.

Hush, Quita, you have said enough ;
and surely all will think you have
suffered sufficiently, and need no further
punishment'

But the continual groaning and muttering
of the crowd outside did not seem

as though their anger was appeased,
and Quita shuddered as she heard It.

Give me my child ! ' she exclaimed
wildly. ' Everything is slipping from
me. My father and mother stand by
in silence, my husband will drive me
from his house. Give me something
that I can call my own ! Lizzie, I
want my child ! '

There is your child, Quita,' replied
her adopted sister sadly, as she led
her to the table. * God has already
called It through their hands to Himself.
They would not leave you even that
poor consolation, my unhappy Quita.'

 Dead f  cried the unfortunate Lady
Russell, as she gazed upon her infant's
breathless form, ' dead ! Oh, Henri,
Henri, why was I ever untrue to you,
and to myself ? My punishment Is
harder than I can bear.'

VOL. III. Q

As she sunk upon her knees, and
her pitiful cry of ' Henri ' sounded
on the air, De Courcelles, unable
to restrain his feelings longer, burst
open his prison door and rushed in
upon them.

Yes,' he exclaimed triumphantly,
as he glared round upon the parents
and husband of Maraquita, * she speaks
the truth at last. I had sworn to
have her life, in exchange for that
of which she has robbed me ; but
she has avenged herself. Take me
prisoner again, as soon as you like.
I shall die contented, to know what
her future life must be.'

Dey nebber take you ! ' cried a
shrill voice at the open casement,
which was immediately followed by
a shot, which brought Henri de Courcelles
to the ground.

yertisha ! ' he muttered between
his teeth as he fell, with the dark
blood and froth bubbling from his lips.

Lizzie was at his side in a moment
tearing away his shirt, and striving
to stem the current of his life.
But it was in vain. The overseer
had met his fate at last, and was
rapidly bleeding to death.

Henri,' she cried, in a voice of
distress, * I can do nothing for you !
You are going to God ! May He
bless and forgive you.'

As  you  have  done,' he gasped
out, as his lifeless head fell from
her arm.

Sir Russell Johnstonee had stood by,
stern and miserable, watching the pitiable
sight, and listening to the confession
which dashed all the brightness
from his married life, but Maraquita and

her parents had hidden themselves away,
unable to bear such a strain upon their
nervous systems. Hugh Norrls seeing
that all was over, came forward to take
Lizzie in his arms ; but she turned from
him, and walked bravely Into the midst
of the mutineers. Their flaring torches
fell full on her ashen face, and lighted
up the large tears standing In her eyes ;
but she stood before them without one
sign of fear, and her voice was loud and
determined.

Are you satisfied now ? ' she demanded
boldly, ' or are not two lives
sufficient to gorge your lust for blood ?
Do you know what you have done ?
You say you love me, and would not
harm a hair of my head, yet you have
killed the man you knew was dear tome
! You have made me risk my life
in vain. Two days ago I walked Into

the Alligator Swamp alone, to find
Henri de Courcelles, and save him from
the gallows, and I brought him here,
only to fall a victim to your barbarity.
Was that love for me ? And the poor
baby too  the little innocent child that
I was bringing up as my own, and that
had never done you any harm, you
must needs take that from me too.
Now, what more do you want ? Is
it my own life ? You may as well
kill me as well as the rest. Perhaps
I am not more worthy to live, in your
estimation, than they were.'

At this harangue, the ringleaders of
the mutiny drew back abashed. They
had not calculated that in taking their
revenge on Henri de Courcelles they
would injure their ' Missy Liz.'

Missy Liz, no talking like dat,' said
an aged negro, speaking for the rest.

Missy know we hub her, and call her de
Good Angel ob Beauregard.'

Then if you love me, coolies, prove it
by what you do. Give up this hateful
mutiny against those who only desire
your good, and let the Governor, and Mr
and Mrs Courtney, return to the White
House in peace. If you don't, I warn
you my life will be the sacrifice, for you
shall trample over my body before you
enter the bungalow in search of them.'

She placed her two hands on the
lintels of the doorposts as she spoke,
to bar their way, and the negroes saw
she was in earnest.

Go back to your quarters, my friends,'
she continued, in a softer voice. ' In my
name, and the name of all whom I love,
I beg of you to return quietly to your
homes, and relinquish your murderous
design.'

For totter sake den, Missy Liz, for
your sake,' replied the coolies, as, started,
and somewhat ashamed of themselves,
for they had no real cause of complaint,
and had only been incited on by the
example of others, the crowd broke up
into groups, and commenced to walk back
slowly to their homes. And then Lizzie
turned round, and threw herself weeping
into Hush N orris's arms.

