CHAPTER I.

WHERE IS MY MOTHER f

It is a black, bitter afternoon in December.
The snow lies hard and deep upon the
ground, its pristine whiteness defiled by the
track of wheels and the tramp of multitudinous
feet, and the north-east wind
catches unwary passengers at the corners of
the streets, and stings their faces and makes
their ears burn. Through the dino-y windows
of the London squares, gas-lights may be
seen, feebly fighting with the surrounding
gloom, and every lamp of the great hall of
VOL. I. 1

the Princess College is blazing to enable the
visitors assembled to watch the proceedings
of the pupils' Christmas examination.

A young girl of sixteen stands upon the
platform. Although tall for her age, there
is a look of slightness and fragility in her
appearance that seems to mock the intellectuality
stamped on her broad forehead,
and shining in the depths of her dark-grey
eyes. She is not pretty, but she is striking.
You might mix that girl up amongst a
thousand ordinary school-misses, and pick
her out as the one most likely to exert an
influence over her fellow-creatures. For it
is not the handsome women in this world
who are the most dangerous. It is those
which possess the power of swaying the
minds of others.

She has just finished the recitation of a
difficult scene from Schiller's ' Joan of Arc
and the remarkable energy and precision
with which she delivered the lines, combined
with her knowledge of the German language,

call forth a round of applause from her
audience. Seldom has the performance of a
schoolgirl elicited such admiration. The
walls of the college resound with the clapping
of hands : two masters, who have been
standing by in proud anticipation of the
approval that shall reward their efforts on
her behalf, leap on the platform to congratulate
their pupil on her success : and the
soft voice of Miss Denny, the lady superintendent,
is heard murmuring her mild congratulations.


But the girl herself seems more disturbed
than pleased by the ovation. As the last
words drop from her lips, and the applause
bursts on her ears, she starts as though suddenly
awaking from a dream ; she pushes
her fair hair impatiently from her brow ; her
eyes rove wildly over the faces turned
towards her, and then, with a hurried but
exquisitely graceful obeisance, she fairly runs
off the platform. A dozen voices are raised
in query as she disappears.

12

 Who is she, Miss Denny V

What is her name V

What an extraordinary talent she appears
to have !' and * What a perfect German
accent !' being amongst a few of the questions
and remarks that the lady superintendent
is called upon to answer.

Miss Denny smiles with her head on one
side, and coos with contentment, as if the
praise were all intended for herself

She is an extremely self-satisfied, middle-aged
lady, whose claims to gentility are chiefly
based upon half closed eyes, a pursed-up
mouth, and a voice scarcely ever raised above
a whisper. It is so difficult to be vulgar
when you never open your mouth. Nothing
that is not ' elegant ' finds favour with Miss
Denny. She is wont to say that ' elegant '
is her favourite adjective, and any action,
however innocent in itself, that runs counter
to the ordinary groove society walks in,
shocks her as much as if it were criminal.

Yes, she is a most promising pupil 

indeed I may say, our most promising pupil
though not always as ready as I could
wish to employ her unquestionable talent in
the right direction,' says Miss Denny, with
folded hands and drooping eyelids. ' Her
name, Lady Harcourt, is Miss Elizabeth
Durant, a daughter of Major Durant of
Northallerton Crescent  perhaps you may
have heard of the family V

I think I have,' replies Lady Harcourt,
shortly; and as Miss Denny moves away,
she whispers to the Lady next her : ' You
remember my telling you that story about
Major Durant and Mrs. Wallerton V

The Irish widow ? Is it the same
man ?'

Yes ! They live in Northallerton Crescent
 not half a mile from here.'

'But he must be quite old to have a
daughter of that age T

Not a bit of it, my dear. He's not a
day over forty. Rosa Money says it's a
most miserable household. I have never

seen Mrs. Durante who is a great invalid ;
but I suppose this girl takes after her.
She's not a bit like the major 1'

She'll be handsome by-and-by ; don't
you think so X

I am not sure replies Lady Harcourt,
hesitatingly (she is one of those women
Who never can see beauty in another) ; * she
is very peculiar-looking, there is no doubt :
but that fair hair is so apt to lose its
colour, and turn out like brown-holland,
and clever women are very seldom attractive.
They get into such a habit of screwing
up their features and looking sharp.*

Meanwhile Miss Denny, who has been
asked by several ladies in the company
to introduce her talented pupil to them,
follows Miss Durant to the antechamber,
where the girls who take an active part in the
examination are assembled. Here she finds
the object of her search, completely indifferent
as to what her late audience may be
saying of her, but in a state of the most

violent agitation nevertheless, which no expostulations
of her companions have been
able to subdue. Her bright hair, which is
the colour of ripe corn at the roots, and
gleams as if the sun shone on it at the tips,
is disordered and untidy ; on her pale cheeks
and the dark lashes of her eyes are trembling
tears, and her thin and unformed hands are
clasped together with what Miss Denny
considers to be inelegant enerofv.

My dear bliss Durant !' says the lady
superintendent, reprovingly, ' pray try to
conquer this needless excitement. I have an
honour in store for you. Mrs. Carmichael
and Lady Silver have asked for an introduction.
Just smooth your hair, my dear  I
cannot allow you to present yourself in that
condition, and I will conduct you to the
Hall'

But the ofirl she addresses takes no notice
of the request,

Oh, Miss Denny 1' she exclaims
anxiously, ' why is my mother not here f

Your mamma, my dear ! I was not
aware that she was absent. Are you sure
she is not amongst the company V

 Oh no ! no ! Do you suppose I should
not have known her face amongst a
thousand ? And '  with a scared look  ' I
am so afraid she is ill !'

come, come, my dear Miss Durant, this
is mere fancy on your part ! You are overexcited
by the success you have obtained
this afternoon. Why should your good
mamma be ill '? Was she not in her usual
health when you left her this morning V

 Yes ; but she has suffered so much with
her heart this winter. And  and  I don't
think anything would have kept her from
the College Examination except  except
'

Miss Ellery, will you have the goodness
to step down and ask the housekeeper for a
glass of port wine for Miss Durant '?' says
the practical lady superintendent. * I cannot
permit you to give way like this, my dear,'

she continues to Beta Durant, 'you will
disfigure yourself terribly ; and Lady Silver
and Mrs. Carmichael will be offended if we
keep them waiting any longer.'

Must I be introduced to them V says the
girl, despondently.

Surely! You ought to consider it a great
honour.'

But I want to go home, Miss Denny !
I want to hear what has detained my mother.
Oh, do let me go home 1'

Go home /' echoes Miss Denny, with a
lady-like little shriek of dismay. 'What,
before his lordship the Bight Reverend
Bishop of the Cockatoo Islands has distributed
the elegant prizes ! Miss Durant,
I never heard of such insensibility and ingratitude
in my life before !'

And when you are going to get Jive of
them, Beta !' whispers her friend and consoler,
beautiful Martha Remiss.

I don't wish to appear ungrateful,' says
Beta, sadly ; ' mother would blame me for

that ! And I will do exactly as you think
best, Miss Denny.'

What Miss Denny thinks best is to order
her to smooth her hair and drink her wine,
and then to drag her back into the body of
the hall, and coo details of her birth and
parentage  age, and number of attainments
into the ears of her admirers. Some of
the ladies remark her pallor, and ask her if
she is unwell, or fatigued by her exertions ;
and Beta is compelled to pass through the
ordeal of answering their questions, whilst
her heart and thoughts are far away. At
last Miss Denny feels her twitch violently
at her arm.

What is the matter, my dear V

There is a lady whom I know  Miss
Greene, may I go and speak to her V

Certainly, if she is a friend of your
mamma's.'

Beta needs no second permission ; in a
moment she has darted to the side of the
lady in question.

Miss Greene 1 have you seen mj mother
to-day V

Miss Greene is so startled by the tone of
anxiety in which these words are uttered,
that at first she hardly knows whether to say
yes or no.

Oh, Elizabeth ! how are you ? How
beautifully you recited that scene, my dear 1
I am sure I felt half inclined to cry, though
I didn't understand a word you were saying.
Your mamma ! Let me see I Have I ?
Oh no ! of course not, but how funny you
should have asked me, for I did call at the
Crescent on my way here, but the maid
said your dear mamma couldn't receive me.
It is a pity she did not come ! She ought
to have been here to listen to your recitations.'

Oh ! Miss Greene, she was coming  she
would have come, I am sure of it, if she
had been well enough. She must be ill
again. What shall I do ? And Miss
Denny won't let me go home till the prizes
are given.'

The servant did not say a word about her
being ill,' remarks Miss Greene. * She only
said Mrs. Durant couldn't see me, so I
thought she was dressing to come to the
college. But if she should be ill, my dear 
there's no need to be frightened  your
mamma's so often ill, you know !'

'You don't know  you don't understand,'
replies the girl hopelessly, as she moves
away. Two more pupils are playing a duet
on a couple of pianos by this time, and
under cover of the noise they produce, Beta
leaves the hall unperceived, and seeks refuse
in the ante-chamber.

Just listen to those Matthews !' exclaims
lively Miss Ellery ; ' hammering away as if
they where in a blacksmith's forge, Ada three
bars behind Ella as usual  which do you bet
gets in first, Beta V and then observing
her companion's expression, she continues :
What ! still in the dumps about your
mother  what a baby you are ! The idea
of bothering yourself about anything when

you've gained the five first prizes at the
Princess College. Why it will be in the
papers, Beta  fancy that ! in the papers !
Mercy on us ! the whole of my family,
grandfathers and grandmothers included,
might go to Jericho if I could only win the
half of them. German, French, Elocution,
Composition, and History ! You're disgustingly
clever, you know, Beta. It's a
shame you should walk off with all the best
prizes in that way ; it's enough to make a
girl kick you !' concludes Miss Lively, with
a playful lunge in the direction of her schoolfellow.
But Beta does not smile in return.


'Never mind Harriet's nonsense says
Martha Kemyss, as she bends over her and
kisses her forehead ; ' I am sure you will find
your dear mother safe and well when you
get home. She has, most likely, been detained
by business.'

Mattie is a lovely girl of eighteen, the
picture of an Eastern houri  sweet-tempered

and lovable, but not over burdened with
brains. But Betlia looks up to her gratefully.


'You are always so sweet and so kind,
Mattie. You ought to have a happy life,
for your great anxiety is to make others so !
Tt is this bitterly cold weather that makes
me afraid for my dear mother ; you cannot
think '  with a shudder  ' how terribly she
suffers when she gets an attack of the heart !
I would olive anvthins to know that she is
well. But Miss Denny says I cannot go
home until the prizes have been given
away.'

Of course not, dear ! And think how
disappointed Mrs. Durant would be to see
you come back without them, Beta.'

The girl smiles faintly  she is but a girl
after all  and she knows how proud her
mother is of her attainments.

Come on !' cries Miss Ellery, who has
been peeping through a crack of the door.
The Matthews have finished  thank goodness

that's over I  and I can see old Cockatoo
marshalling Denny up to the table with the
prizes. I hope he will give me one. If
he doesn't, I've got a splendid bread-pellet
to shoot at his bald head. Feel it, Beta,
it's as hard as a stone ! I've been kneading
for him all day !'

But in another minute the young lady's
liveliness is subdued, as an under-teacher
appears to conduct them in state to the
presence of the bishop, who has been installed
with becoming ceremony behind a
table, piled up with volumes bound in red
and blue. Who has not officiated or assisted
at that dullest of all dull exhibitions  a
school examination ? His Lordship of the
Cockatoo Islands delivers a rambling
little speech with each volume,
that makes Miss Denny coo, and the
majority of the girls giggle, and works up
poor Beta Durant's over-strung nerves to
such a tension, that before she is called up
for the fifth time, she has made a hundred

resolves not to wait for the end of it. But
it is over at last, and instead of mixing with
the visitors, as she is expected to do, and exhibiting
her prizes for the benefit of the
college, Beta rushes into the ante-chamber,
and throwing her books upon the table, commences
hurriedly to reassume her walking
attire.

Beta dear ! you must wait for a cab.
You cannot carry all those books through the
streets,' says Mattie Kemyss.

I can t wait ! I shall be half-way home
before they send for it. I must go and see
after mother !'

But does not Miss Denny expect us all
to take tea with her to-nioht V

I can't help what she expects I Mattie
dear, don't try to detain me ! I have been
going mad with anxiety for the last two
hours.'

She twists her scarf about her throat as
she speaks, and turns towards the door.

But your books !' cries Mattie.

They must remain here till tomorrow, I
cannot stay !' are Beta's vanishing words, as
she hurries through the corridor and out into
the chill evening air.

Vol. I.

I WILL GO AFTER HER 1'

It is about six o'clock, but the streets areas
dark as at night. Crowds of pedestrians,
stamping their feet, or holding their muffs
to their faces, throng the pavement, eager
to complete their Christmas purchases
and return to their firesides as soon as
possible.

It is ' seasonable weather,' they say consolingly,
as they salute each other in passing,
but they are glad to get out of it all the
same. The boys have made slides along the
pavement, and the roadways are a sheet of
ice, so that traffic has become dangerous,
alike for man and beast ; and more than one

poor cab-horse, struggling on its side, has
attracted a little crowd of spectators, whose
curiosity outweighs their sense of cold.

But Beta heeds nothing and nobody  not
even her own uncertain footing. She is like
a dog on the right track returning to his
home, and looking neither to one side nor
the other for fear of losing: the scent. She
winds her way amongst the crowd, almost
running over the slippery pavement in her
anxiety to make haste, and arrives at the
portals of her father's house, panting and
out of breath. Even then she is afraid of
knocking at the door, lest the sound should
startle her nervous and easily alarmed
mother, but is obliged to content herself by
ringing the bell, and dancing in an agony of
impatience on the step until her summons is
attended to. Simultaneously with the appearance
of the servant, the question bursts
from her lips : ' How is mamma V

Your mamma, miss,' is the answer ; ' shes
(J one /'

Gone /' echoes Beta in a tone of horror :
gone moliere T

Oh, Miss Beta dear ! this has been a
terrible day says a muffled voice from the
staircase ; and Beta looks up and sees her
old nurse Bentham on the landing with her
apron to her eyes, and her little sister
Hyacinth hanging on the banisters, her-childish
face brimming over with important
news. The girl pushes her way into the
passage, and supports herself against the
wall.

What is the matter ?' she utters faintly ;
tell me the truth. Is she dead?

Dead ! lor no, my dear. Don't go to
fancy such a thing ! It ain't come to that
yet, please God. But whatever will become
of the mistress on such a night as this I can't
think. It's just enough to kill her, and no
mistake.'

Where has she gone ? Why did she go
out ? Why did you let her go V demands the
gh'l, roused from her first dread fear.

Hyacinth, a beautiful sharp-looking imp
of ten, with dark eyes and chestnut curls
down to her waist, lays one finger on her lip,
and with a look of ineffable wisdom, points
with the other to the closed dining-room
door. It is to warn her elder sister that the
master of the house is likely to overhear
their conversation.

There's been an awful row,' she whispers
in the parlance of chits in this slangy
generation. ' Oh, Beta, if you had only
been here ! Come upstairs and we will tell
you all about it.'

Beta needs no second invitation. Curiosity
combined with a terrible fear that the
end of all things has arrived, make her
eager to hear what has occurred during her

absence.

The ' awful row ' is unfortunately no
novelty to her or any of the household.
The novel thing is to reach bedtime without
having overheard one of Major and Mrs.
Durant's wordy disputes ; but her mother has

never gone the length of leaving her home
before.

/ Oh, nurse ! what is it all about V she
exclaims, weeping, as she finds herself alone
with Bentham and her little sister.

Well, my dearie ! don't cry now, but it's
just this ! Your ma, she was going to dress
and drive down to the college, and I had my
orders to get Miss Hyacinth ready to go
with her, when your pa, he came home,
and '

Yes !' interrupts Hyacinth without ceremony,
' papa came home, Beta, and he
went into mamma's dressing-room, and began
to make an awful noise and stamp about, and
we could hear him talking, couldn't we,
Bentyy "? and then papa banged the door and
went down into the dining-room, and mamma
followed him ; and she cried and they had
another row, oh ! much worse than the first
one ; and then mamma came upstairs again
and put on her bonnet and shawl and went
out, and she says she'll never come back

again  never  never  never ! not as long as
ever she lives she von't, will she, Bentyy X

Oh ! Cinthy, it can't be true ! you don't
know what you are talking about,' gasps
Beta.

The girl's filial love amounts to a passion ;
from her infancy her mother has been the
recipient of her truest and tenderest affection,
and from the moment she was able to comprehend
the misery of her domestic life, she
has elevated her to the position of an idol.

Indeed, Miss Beta, I'm afraid she's not
so mistook as you seem to imagine remarks
the old nurse, who has had the charge of
both these children from their cradles ; * for
your poor ma, she seemed terrible put out, to
be sure, i've never seen her so bad before,
long as I've served her ; and the last words
she say to me was, '* You'll never see me in
this house again, Bentham," says she, " not if
you hive for another fifty years," says she.'

 But surely you asked her where she was
going, nurse 1'

Lor ! Miss Beta, it wouldn't have been
no manner of use. She didn't know herself,
poor lady. She was all off her head-like,
with your pa's treatment of her, and ran out
into the snow, for all the world like a wild
thing.'

Mother ! mother !' cries Beta, in a tone
of anguish. ' Oh ! where can she be on this
bitterly cold night '? It will kill her, nurse !
You know how strictly Dr. Field has forbidden
her venturing out on foot in the
ice and snow. She will get an attack of
those terrible spasms  she will fall down and
die in the streets from exposure to such
weather.*

Aye,' acquiesces the nurse, with the usual
style of consolation adopted by her class ; * I
shouldn't wonder if she did, poor lady  that
is if she's heedless enough to keep on her
feet on such an evening. But let's hope, my
dear, as she'll have more consideration for
herself

The daughter's face becomes white and

strained as her nervous system is thus
cruelly played upon, and she clutches the
old woman's arm with an energy that considerably
startles her.

Why didn't you go with her, nurse ? It
was your duty to have done so ! you knovv
how ill and feeble darling mother is.'

Lor ! !Miss Beta, I was only too willing
to go along with her, but the master he
wouldn't let me.'

Yes! Betha/ interpolates the imp, 'Bentyy
cried and asked mamma to let her go too ;
but papa stood across the passage like a bear,
and declared that anybody who went with
mamma or fetched her a cab or did anything
for her, should be dismissed from his service
without warning : and mamma told Bentyy
that the kindest thing she could do for her
was to stay here and look after me; didn't
she, Bentyy V

Then / will go after her,' exclaims Beta,
with decision.

YOU NEVER RE-ENTER MY HOUSE.'

The old nurse lifts her hands in amazement.

 You J Miss Beta ! Lor, my dear ! if
your pa wouldn't let one go, do you suppose
he'll give his consent to a child like you
running about the streets alone at this time
of night V

I shall not ask for his consent,' says the
girl proudly. * I shall act on my own authority.'


Oh, Beta I don't be so stupid,' interposes
Hyacinth, as she shakes back the curls from
her selfish little face.  You'll only get cliil-
blains, and what good can you do mamma ?
She's just as well able to walk as you are.'

Do you suppose I can lie down in my
bed and sleep replies the elder girl, Avitli
scorn, ' unless I know that dear mother is
well and safely sheltered ? But it is only
your ignorance, Cinthy, that makes you talk
in such a heartless manner. You cannot
understand the terrible risk that mother runs
on such a night as this. No one shall prevent
me from going to seek her I'

I understand just as well as you says
Hyacinth pertly, * but mamma went out of
her owen accord. She wanted to go  she said
so  didn't she, Bentyy ?'

Where will you go to find her. Miss
Beta V asks the servant, without heeding
the younger child's query.

I don't know To every house she has
ever entered until I hear some news of her.'

She's sure to go and tell Mrs. Fullerton
pipes Hyacinth.

To be sure, Miss Beta. Miss Cinthy
always has the right thug to say, bless her I
There's no lady been more to this house

during the last twelvemonth than Mrs. Wal-merton.
I'd certainly go there first to hear
news of your poor ma. But you'll be sure
to be back in good time  won't you, my
dear V

'I don't know. I'm not sure. Don't
worry me with useless questions cries
Beta, impatiently, as she prepares to leave
the nursery. ' All I can say is that I am
going to look for mother, and I'll never
come back again until I've found her.'

But, Beta, do stop and tell me about
the prizes first !' exclaims Hyacinth, hanging
on to her sister's dress.

The only answer vouchsafed her curiosity
is the violent jerk by which Beta disengages
herself as she runs down the staircase.
But when she reaches the hall a barrier
presents itself to her design. The door of
the dining-room is suddenly opened and Major
Durant stands in her path.

It is evident at once from whom Hyacinth
inherits her dark beauty. Major Durant

possesses the same brilliant eyes and curling"
chestnut hair as his younger daughter.
There is no trace of similitude between himself
and Beta, and from the manner in
which he scowls at her, the disparity would
appear to be as much in their dispositions as
their persons.

'Where are you going?' he demands sternly.

I am going to mamma.'

I forbid your doing so ! Go back to the
nursery.'

'Papa, someone must go and look after
her. You know how long she has been ill,
and how seriously the cold of such a night
may affect her heart. It was cruel and
wicked to let her go out in it. I must and
I will follow her !'

It was your mother's own wish to go, and
she is quite old enough to look after herself.
She left my house against my express orders
to the contrary, and I forbid any member of
my family holding communication with her
until she returns to it.'

She left the house because you have
made her life so miserable that she cannot
remain in it !' cries the girl, with flashing
eyes.

Do you mean to insult me, miss ? How
dare you speak to me in such a way V

I dare to speak the truth, papa ! Do
you think I am blind or deaf, that I do not
understand that my poor mother is an unhappy
woman ? Why, there is not a servant
in the house who does not know it, and pity
her for it. And she has borne it for years 
dear mother !  with the patience and goodness
of an angel, and now that she can bear
it no longer, and you have driven her nearly
mad, you want us all to turn against her, as
you do. But I won't  I ivont. I love my
mother dearly  devotedly, and I will never
forsake her  not even if she were in the
wrongs, which I know she isn't.'

Major Durant looks very uneasy. He
shuffles his feet and changes colour, and lets
Lis eyes rest anywhere but on his outspoken

daughter's face. It is not pleasant to be told
of our faults, boldly and undisguisedly, and
more especially when the rebuke comes from
the lips of a mentor so many years younger
than ourselves. And Major Durant hates
Betba at that moment in proportion to her
honesty.

You have a very sharp tongue, young
lady, and you have inherited the gift of
making use of it,' he replies angrily ;  but I
repeat my prohibition : I will have no open
scandal made of this business, and I refuse
to let you quit the house.'

Then I must send a note to Dr. Field,'
says Beta decidedly. ' He has given me
strict orders to tell him if mother is ever
careless of his directions, and I know he will
say' that it's enough to kill her to be wandering
about the streets when they are covered
with ice and snow.'

Major Durant begins to feel very uncomfortable.
Like all bullies, he is a coward,
and Dr. Field has already seen too much of

the inner working of his married Hfe to make
the idea of his being appealed to on the
subject a pleasant one. On how many occasions
has the doctor not been summoned to
revive Mrs. Durant from those fits of exhaustion
which usually follow the excitement
of their disagreements'? Once, did he not
warn the husband that if he could not better
control his temper and his language his wife's
death might lie at his door ? Yes ; the
major has reason for not desiring the interference
of the blunt and plain-spoken Dr.
Field. He attempts, therefore, to treat the
whole matter in a lighter spirit.

*My dear child, I do wish you would
learn not to exaggerate one's little domestic
difficulties in this way. It is a very bad
habit to get into. Wandering about the streets!
Rubbish ! what will you imagine next ? Is
it likely your mamma would be such a fool !
She is more probably toasting herself by the
fireside of some acquaintance, whilst she
pours the whole story of my iniquities into

her sympathising ear. She'll be back again
before midnight, you may take your oath of
it. Come now ! show yourself to be the
sensible girl you are. Go upstairs again and
dress for dinner, and come and take your
mother's place at the head of the table.'

I cannot !' says Beta, deter minutely. ' I
must follow my mother.'

 Then I shall prevent your doing so.'
Papa, you cannot prevent me. I am nota
child, remember I I was sixteen on my
last birthday, and where mother's health and
safety are concerned, I refuse to be controlled
by you or anyone !'

Oh, indeed ! Perhaps you are also aware
that, being a woman, and beyond the control
of your natural guardians, I am not compelled
to receive you back into my house if you
quit it without leave.'

I know nothing about it, but I don't want
to come back unless mother comes too. My
lot for life is cast in with hers.'

Go to your mother, then !' exclaims the

VOL. I. 3

major loudly and passionately, as he throws
open the hall-door; *but, remember, if you
once cross that threshold you never re-enter
my house. I give you your choice, Beta,
between your mother and myself. Follow
your own headstrong will if it pleases you,
but if you do so, against my express command
to the contrary, I will never receive
you as my daughter again !'

I must follow my mother 1' cries the girl,
as she runs lightly past her father down the
flight of stone steps into the little garden,
and so out into the gathering blackness of
the winter's night.

'take that woman away.'

For a few minutes Beta runs on, heedless
of what direction her feet shall take, until
she finds herself in the flare of the lighted
shops, and under the scrutiny of a crowd of
strangers ; then she stops suddenly, and assuming
a soberer pace, tries to collect her
scattered thoughts and consider what is best
to be done. There is no fear nor indecision in
the ofirl's mind : no regret for the harsh words
with which she has been driven from her
father's door ; she has but one idea in her
brain  where best to turn in order to find
her mother ! Her youthful appearance and
ignorance of the world are the only childish

32

things about Betlia Durant. In reasoning
faculty and mental strength she is in advance
of many women of twice her age ; and the
unhappy occurrence that has taken place in
her own home to-day, seems to have forced
into fruition every power she possesses.

As she halts, ostensibly to look into a shop
window, in reality to press her hand against
her brow and decide upon her course of
action, she feels far more like a mother
going in search of her child, than a child
bent upon finding its mother. The words
of the nurse and Hyacinth concerning Mrs.
Wallerton recur to her mind. There is no
doubt of their accuracy. Mrs. Wallerton is
the most intimate friend her mother possesses.
During the past year she has been
constantly at the house, running in and out,
without invitation, at all sorts of odd moments,
and bringing the most charming presents of
flowers and fruit to tempt the appetite of the
invalid.

Beta has often seen Mrs. Wallerton hang

over Mrs. Distant, and kiss her, and call her
her ' dearest Mary !' has even heard the
lively widow take the major roundly to
task for reflecting; his wife, or refusing to
believe in her illness, until her mother's
cheeks have been crimson with shame and
mortification. There is no doubt in Botha's
mind, but that Mrs. Wallerton likes her
mother as much as she professes to do, and
that she is the person to whom Mrs. Durant
would be most likely to fly for protection and
advice in a moment of distress. Beta has
scarcely settled this point satisfactorily in her
own mind, before she finds herself in front
of Mrs. Wallerton's house, which is situated
at no great distance from Northallerton
Crescent.

As she enters the hall and asks hurriedly
for the mistress, she can see, through the
open door of the dining-room, the table laid
for dinner, gay with hothouse flowers and
bright with silver and cut glass, for Mrs.
Wallerton is rich and luxurious in her tastes,

and loves to spend her money on herself.
She runs down the stairs as she hears
Beta's voice in the hall, and draws her
visitor into the privacy of the diningroom.


My dearest girl ! What brings you hereon
such a terrible evenings ?'

Mrs. Wallerton, standing under the full
blaze of the gaslight, presents the picture of
a handsome woman of about thirty. She is
tall, full-bosomed and broad-shouldered, with
a waist of five-and-twenty inches  that owes
its size to compression rather than to Nature,
a fact that is evidenced by the stiffness of
her figure and the flush upon her face, though
the widow stoutly denies it. Her Irish nationality
is betrayed in her dark, coarse hair,
and her prominent eyes and heavy jaw. But
she has small white even teeth and ripe pouting
lips, and a certain fascination of manner
that is very attractive to such people as have
not the power to look below the surface.
This fascination is greatly enhanced by the

fact that Mrs. Wallerton's conscience is of
that easy description that permits her to lie
without scruple, whilst she has her wits sufficiently
about her to prevent her lies being
found out. To utter a falsehood is as natural
to those cherry lips as to say good-morning;'
indeed, so long and faithfully has she practised
the art, that it has become a second nature
to her.

How many ladylike liars do we not meet
as we pass through the world ! They are the
poison of society  that make it the vile sham
it is of subterfuge, and backbiting, and untruth
 yet they possess the ablest weapon
with which to cut their own way through it :
the power of appearing all things to all men.
Each one of Mrs. Wallerton's acquaintances,
whilst listening eagerly to her carefully
veiled detraction of the rest, believes firmly
that she is true at least to her listener. And
each one is gulled in turn. So how should
Beta, fresh from her schoolroom experience,
think otherwise than that all the honeyed

words proceeding from that sweetly smiling
mouth are true.

Oh ! Mrs. Wallerton,' she exclaims, hurriedly,
' is mother with you V

Your mother, Beta ! No 1 Why 
what makes you ask me such an extraordinary
question V

The girl has made up her mind so firmly
that she will be successful in her search, that
the disappointment overcomes her.

She has left home she replies, sobbing.
Papa has been unkind to her again, dreadfully,
cruelly unkind ; and she has run away,
and no one knows where she has gone to.'

At the receipt of this intelligence the
widow's face grows dark, and she bites her
lip sharply to hide her evident annoyance.

 Run away ! Beta ! Impossible ! Someone
has exaggerated the truth to you !
Were you at home when it occurred ? What
did your papa say to make her so angry V

I don't think she was angry, Mrs. Waller-ton,
only very unhappy about something. It

is nurse who told me the story. I was at college
at the time; it is our examination-day, you
know, and I knew nothing of it until I returned
home. But indeed it is true, for papa told me
so himself, and he ordered me not to follow
her; but I was too frightened to obey him.'

'And you imagined you would find your
mamma with me, my dear !'

I could not tell. You have always been
so kind to mother, Mrs. Wallerton; I thought
she would think of you first. And now I
don't know where to go, or what to do.'

The widow's face is portentously grave.
It is pleasant for an independent woman to
have admirers floating in an easy, nonchalant
manner about her, but not so agreeable to be
suddenly wakened to the truth that her careless
flirtations are likely to be made the occasion
of a public scandal.

I wish Mrs. Durant had come here,' she
says. ' Beta, you have distressed me beyond
measure with this news. I have such
a high respect for your dear mamma, and

indeed for your papa also, that these domestic
quarrels shock me terribly. I have not
been used to them ; they are matters altogether
beyond my sphere of cognisance.
Why cannot people live happily and pleasantly
together, as they were intended todo
'{ Not that I have the least wish to
blame either your mamma or your papa, my
dear. They must know their own affairs best.
Only it is so terrible for their friends. But
it cannot last. They have fallen out over
some little trifle, may be; but depend upon it,
that in a day or two they will come to see
their folly, and all will be right again between
them.'

I don't know : I can't say, Mrs. Waller-ton.
But meanwhile, where can mother be ?
Oh ! I am so frightened for her in all this
frost and snow.'

No doubt she has gone to your aunt, Mrs.
Chapman. I wonder it did not strike you
before, Beta. Mrs. Durant is far more likely
to oho to Earl's Court than to come to me.'

To Aunt Janie ! But she lives so many
miles away.

My dear child, a cab will take you therein
half-an-hour. But stay ; sit down for two
minutes, and I will take you there myself.'

But you have not had your dinner yet !'

Never mind my dinner. It must wait fora
little while.'

Oh, Mrs. Wallerton ! how kind you are !'

Not at all, my dear ! Do you think I
would allow you to go alone ? Your papa
ought to be taking you himself, but as he is
such a naughty man, 1 will try and fill his
place. And I would do anything in the
world for your dear mother, Beta,' continued
the widow, in a lower voice, ' and shall not be
satisfied till I know where she is. Have a
glass of wine before we go I It will do you

good r

As Mrs. Wallerton utters these words, and
encircles the drooping girl's form with her
arms, Beta thinks she is the kindest and
most sympathetic friend they have ever

possessed; and as they drive together, as fast
as the state of the roads will permit them,
towards the house of Mrs. Chapman, Mrs.
Wallerton blames her father's conduct openly
to her young companion, and declares she shall
not rest day nor night until she sees his domestic
relationship restored to its former basis.
 Such a dear, sweet creature as your
mamma is, too, Beta ! I am sure I could
not venture to say what I have to the child
of any other woman, but then you are so
sensible and beyond your years. You take so
much after her in every respect, you will be
able to understand the feeling that dictates
my words. But to see a person like her unappreciated,
so elegant, so refined, and so
amiable, cuts me to the very soul, Beta,
and I can't think what your papa can be
made of, to be so shortsighted. I shall not
rest until we have found her  be sure of that I
and if she is not at your aunt's, we will drive
round London all night long, until we have
discovered her hiding-place.

Beta presses the soft, plump hand that
holds her own, and feels as if she had indeed
found a friend in need.

As their cab draws up before the door of
Mrs. Chapman's house, a sober-coloured
brougham, which they do not perceive in the
darkness, moves slowly onward to make vay
for them ; and before they have time to knock,
a maid-servant, evidently on the watch,
quietly opens the hall-door, and admits them.

Is Mrs. Durant here V asks Beta,
breathlessly.

Yes, miss ! she is, but '

Beta waits for no explanation. In the
same moment she has pushed open a door on
the ground-floor and stands upon the threshold
of the room. The first glance tells her
the whole story. On the sofa, with closed
eyes, is extended the form of Mrs. Durant,
whilst by her side sits Dr. Field, an over
her bends Mrs. Chapman. Pillows, a blanket,
mustard, brandy, and a faint pervading odour
of eau-de-cologne, give the usually neat

apartment the semblance of a sick-room, and
Beta's worst fears are realised. For well
she recognises the accompaniments of the
complaint : her mother has been suffering
from an attack of the heart.

Mother  darling mother !' she exclaims
impulsively ; ' Mrs. Wallerton has brought
me to you !'

A prolonged ' Hush comes simultaneously
from the lips of both doctor and nurse as they
turn and perceive the new presence in the
room  but it comes too late. Mrs. Durant
has heard her daughter's words, and before
they can prevent her, she has risen to a sitting
posture. Her eyes gleam like living fire, and
her cheeks glow with the sudden excitement.

Take her away !' she screams, as she points
with one white thin hand in the direction of
the buxom widow ; ' I will not speak to her !
It is she that has done it all ! It is she that
has killed me !'

 Dearest Mary, pray compose yourself !
pray lie down !* says Mrs. Chapman persuasively,

but the sick lady continues to cry,
Take that woman away  take her away !'

Beta stands horror-struck between the
two. What has occurred ? Has her poor
mother lost her senses, that she should speak
to her best friend in so extraordinary a
manner ? Before she has time to speculate
on the probable answer to her question, her
aunt Janie advances to Mrs. Wallerton.

I must ask you to retire,' she says, in a
voice which seems to Beta unnecessarily
harsh. * My sister is very ill indeed, and quite
unfit to see strangers.'

Strangers !' echoes the widow, 'I should
think I could hardly be classed in such a
category, considering that I have left my
dinner-table on a night like this to bring Mrs.
Durant's daughter to her side. It is the
first time I have ever heard myself spoken of
as a " stranger " before, either by the lady or
any of her family, and I must say her conduct
is rather inexplicable to me.'

For still the cry of ' Take her away !' is

sounding from Mrs. Durant's pale lips, whilst
Dr. Field is doings all he can to calm and

o

pacify her.

 I have no doubt it is,' replies Mrs. Chapman,
who has contrived to edge her visitor
outside the door ; ' but she is dangerously ill,
as you may see, she hardly knows Avhat she
is saying ; and at all hazards we must try and
keep her from further excitement. Indeed
it will be kinder of you to leave us alone !'

Oh ! I have no desire to intrude  it is
not my nature replies the widow, shrugging
her shoulders ; ' of course, I have done a
great deal for poor Mrs. Durant from time to
time, and I was actuated by the purest pity
in coming here to see her to-night ; still, if
my presence is not welcome, I can but be
sorry and withdraw it. I hope to have better
accounts of her in the morning. Good-night,
Beta dear !'

But Beta cannot with sincerity return the
salutation. Those terrible mysterious words,
It is she that has killed me are still sounding

in her ears, and she is leaning, sick and
faint with astonishment and wonder, against
her mother's couch.

Mother, mother dearest ! don't you know
me V she wails in a low voice. The agony
which succeeded her recognition of Mrs.
Waller ton has passed again, and Mrs. Durant
is lying back on the pillows, looking as white
and exhausted as a lily beaten down by the
rain.'

Yes, child I yes !' she replies faintly,  you
are Beta ! But never let me see you with
that ivoman again.'

My dear lady, I cannot allow you to
excite yourself,' says the doctor, in a voice of
warning.

Very well, doctor, I will not speak of it ;
but you must let me talk to Beta. Beta
dear, it is all over ; the end is coming fast
now !'

Oh, mother, mother ! don't say that !'

Was this, then, to be the reward of her
loving search ? To find her mother pale and

VOL. 1. 4

exhausted, her face covered with the sweat
of death ; the fierce agony over, but her poor
worn-out heart beating fainter and fainter
with each laboured respiration. The girl has
often seen her, apparently as prostrated as
she is now ; but something tells her  perhaps
the unmistakable look in the eyes of the
dying, perhaps the mercy of a watchful,
though invisible guardian  that this will bethe
last time, and she feels stricken dumb
with the agony of despair.

But it is true ! This has finished it all.
His conduct, the ice, the snow. I have
suffered such unutterable anguish ; but I am
quiet now. May he treat my poor children
better than he has treated me ! Oh, my
Hyacinth ! my darling, my best-loved child !
What pain it is to leave her !'

The true, brave heart of the daughter,
leaning over the dying woman's couch, seems
suddenly to stop. Yes ; this has been the
unrecognised, though not unfelt, disappointment
of her girlish life. She has loved her

mother with entire devotion  as the one
great object of her existence, and her
mother's best affections have been lavished
on her younger child. Beta has been the
ever-ready sympathiser and nurse and friend,
but pert, pretty Hyacinth, with her sharp
tongue and her gipsy curls, has been the
pride and darling of Mrs. Durant's life. And
now the last few precious moments of that
life are to be devoted to her.

Beta, take care of Cinthy !' she gasps.
 Be a mother to her I My sweet child !
Try and supply my place ! Don't let her
miss me. And yet she must miss her loving
mother's care  my beautiful darling ! Oh,
my God ! it is so hard not to see her again !'

Shall I go and fetch her V exclaims Beta,
anxious only to please her mother; but a
warning look from Dr. Field silences her
again.

Too  late !' murmurs Mrs. Durant
faintly, and then she puts out her hand and
feebly draws Beta's face to hers, and so lies

42

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Lino

silent, whilst the others stand beside, watching
each breath, as it is drawn more and more
lingeringly from her ashen-grey lips.

Cinthy !  be good to Cinthy !' she whispers
presently, and Beta, kissing her passionately,
assures her that she will.

And then Mrs. Durant turns her head two
or three times on the pillow, as though to
settle herself into an easier position, gives a
soft, contented sigh, and with a faint smile
on her lips, gently droops her lids upon her
eyes.

* She is asleep,' whispers Beta, turning
her tear-stained face towards the doctor.

He has his finger on the patient's pulse,
and for a moment he does not answer her.
Only he raises his eyes to meet those of Mrs.
Chapman, and, with a grave look, replaces
the hand he holds upon the breast of Mrs.
Durant.

You had better come away, darling,' says
Mrs. Chapman, as she attempts to raise
Beta from the floor.

Oh no ! Aunt Janie, let me sit and watch
by her till she wakes. I will be as quiet asa
mouse, and the time is so short, you
know '  with a gasping sob   she might
want me. I cannot bear to leave her for a
minute.'

My darling Beta, she will never want
you again. It's all over !' says Mrs. Chapman,
bursting into tears.

What /' cries the girl, springing to her
feet.

'Your dear mother is gone, my child,'
interposes Dr. Field ; for Aunt Janie is
sobbing too much to speak. ' She is
dead ! Try not to grieve too much, Beta !
She has suffered from heart-disease for
many years past, and in any case the
end could not have been much longer delayed.'


Gone !  gone, already /' cries Beta, in a
tone of the keenest anguish. ' And she never
said she loved me !'

The shock, the excitement, and the fatigue
of the day have been too much for her, and
as the last words leave her lips, she sinks
unconscious on the floor.

*I HAVE DECIDED.'

For a few days after her mother's death,
Botha's senses are mercifully dulled to all
earthly things. She is not unconscious ; she
is perfectly aware that her idol is dead, and
that she shall never speak to her again ;
that that which lies so silent and immovable
in the next room is deaf and insensible to all
that she may say or do. She knows it, but
she cannot realise it. She cannot identify
that marble image with the mother she has
lost. Her aunt Janie Avants her to go and
look at it and cry over it, and kiss it, hoping
thereby that the girl's emotion may be excited,
and a more natural state of things set

in. But Betlia is as yet incapable of the
comfort of tears. She lies on her bed, with
dry eyes and listless limbs, thinking neither
of the past nor the future  forgetting even
to blame her father for his conduct  only
desirous to be left alone, and not worried to
eat, or drink, or talk, that she may try to
make her brain obey her will, and understand
that she is parted from her dearest friend, in
this world, for ever.

Mrs. Chapman, on the other hand, is all
energy and excitement. There is so much to
be done and to be said, with such a dreadful
occurrence as her  own dear sister actually
dying in her very dining-room,' so much recrimination
to be levelled at the head of her
offending brother-in-law, and so much discussion
about the funeral and dear Beta's
prospects, and the shocking suspicions she
entertains concerning that horrid woman,
Mrs. Wallerton, that she is regaling her
visitors with the history all day long.

Yes, indeed, Mrs. Jones I' she will say, as

she hangs tearfully over the body of her
departed sister, ' poor dear Mary had a life
of it, and no mistake. If you had only seen
her suffer, as T have ! How she could stand
it so long is a marvel to me 1 Often and
often I've said to her, '' Why not leave the
man? Why stay in the house to be ill-treated
and insulted as you are ?" But she
was so patient, so uncomplaining  never a
word to anyone ; but of course she could not
hide it from me. I am sure she had the
goodness of an angel.'

But is it true that the poor dear died in
the snow V says Mrs. Jones. ' My maid tells
me the report is all over Kensington.'

 Oh no ; it was not quite so bad as that ;
but she arrived here in so exhausted a condition,
we had not even time to move her
upstairs. There is no doubt the exposure to
the cold hastened her end ; it brought on one
of those fearful attacks of spasms that are so
fatal in heart-disease ; and then, darling
Mary was so imprudent. She walked here,

all the way from Regent's Park, and with
thin house-boots on. I don't think she knew
what she was doing, poor dear ! Her mind
was quite upset by Major Durant's brutal
conduct to her. We sent for the doctor at
once, but he could do nothing for her. Her
screams were heartrending. And then Beta
arrived with that horrid Mrs. Wallerton, and
it excited Mary so that she never rallied
afterwards. Oh, it has been a terrible affair,
Mrs. Jones !  a most terrible and heartrending
affair !  and I don't feel as if I should
ever get over it !' concludes Mrs. Chapman,
sobbing.

She is very like her dead sister, both in
appearance and disposition, and both women
are weak, washed-out representatives of
Beta. It is from her mother that the girl
has inherited her ripe-corns coloured hair and
grey eyes  only Mrs. Durant's eyes where of
a pale grey, and her hair was faded and limp.
Her character, too, was more yielding and
amiable than that of her high-spirited daughter,

with less courage and energy and less
power of affection.

Aunt Janie is a prototype of Mrs. Durant.
She is one of those enthusiastic, warmhearted,
fickle-minded people, who take up
the cause of another as though it were their
own so long as their partisanship does not
affect their interests, and drop it like a hot
coal as soon as it does. She advances to the
fight like a hero, bub as soon as she encounters
any opposition she retreats like a
craven. She has always been ready to fondle
her sister and moan over her troubles, but
she has never tried to help her out of them,
either by counsel or action. She can weep
copiously over her now she is dead, but
living, her friendship proved but a broken
reed. So, she can weep copiously over
Beta at the present moment, and make
grand plans for her future ; but it remains to
be proved what her action will be, when that
future has turned into the present.

That poor girl upstairs,' sighs Mrs. Jones,

she is old enough to feel all this terribly !
How will she meet her father V

She shall never meet him !' exclaims Mrs.
Chapman, energetically. ' She has received
too much ill-treatment at his hands already.
Why, Mrs. Jones, the man actually told her
that if she went in search of her poor dying
mother he would never receive her as a
daughter again. It curdles my blood to
think of it, and I don't feel as if I could even
speak to Major Durant. He must come
here for the funeral, I suppose, but it is the
last time he enters my house, and I shall tell
him so without reserve.'

 You will do very right !' exclaims Mrs.
Jones.

And as for Beta, she will be my child
henceforward  as much mine as Blanche.
The only difference will be that I shall have
two daughters to love me instead of one.'

And Aunt Janie, who is a widow, calls
her only child to her side, and with tears in
her eyes conjures her to take her motherless

cousin to her heart as a sister, and never
look upon her thenceforward in any other
light.

My own sweet Mary's legacy to me,' she
exclaims, as she folds both the girls in her
maternal arms. ' Beta, you must try and
look on me as a mother now, for I will never
let you return to that wicked man's roof
again  never, so long as you live !'

Thank you, dear Aunt Janie. I  I 
should like to remain with you for a little
while, if I may. I don't think I could go
back again just yet  not  not  while everything
is so difficult to forget.'

You shall never go back,' repeats Aunt
Janie, determinately.  You must meet him
I suppose, on the day of the funeral ; but
when that is over you shall return home with
me, and be Blanche's sister as long as you
live.'

Hyacinth,' falters Beta, in a tone of
remonstrance ; but she is too weary and too
sick at heart to argue the point, and Aunt

Janie is satisfied that she shall have her own
way.

The day of the funeral arrives. The coffin,
with its silent inmate, has been carried downstairs,
preparatory to being lifted into the
hearse, and Mrs. Chapman, who, with Beta,
has arranged to attend the ceremony, is
advised that Major Durant and Dr. Field
are waiting her presence in the diningroom.


Come, darling !' she says, as she throws
the deep crape veil over Beta's mourning
bonnet, and draws the girl's hand through
her arm ; * take courage ! It will soon be
over, and you shall not even speak to Major
Durant if you do not wish to do so.'

But as they enter the room where the
funeral guests are assembled Beta gives a
cry of surprise and terror, and hides her face
upon the bosom of her aunt.

Mrs. Chapman looks up, astounded, to
encounter the form, decorously draped in the
deepest mourning, of Mrs. Wallerton.

Is this intended for an insult V she cries
involuntarily.

The face of everyone in the room changes.
If there is one thing in this world more unpleasant
to be mixed up with than another
it is a domestic difference, and especially on
such a solemn occasion as a funeral.

I don't understand you says Mrs. Wal-merton,
quickly. ' I have come here, on the
invitation of Major Durant, to pay the last
respect I can to his departed wife, who was
one of my dearest friends. Have you any
objections to make to it V

Aunt Janie is already defeated. Her spark
of courage is extinguished. She does not
know how to continue the contest.

I don't think my poor sister considered
you as her dearest friend,' she answers, in a
more subdued voice.

I am astonished you should open such a
discussion at such a moment interposes
Major Durant, offended. 'Whatever my
late wife may have said or thought, the fact

speaks for itself : Mrs. Wallerton's kindness
to the whole of my family has been unvarying,
and were it not a most improper moment
for disputing the matter, I should certainly
call on you, Mrs. Chapman, to make her an
apology for the words you have just spoken.'

Pray let us have no quarrelling,' says
Dr. Field, ' and especially in this presence.
I think we are all assembled. Had we not
better set out for the cemetery at once V

Come, dear Beta,' says her aunt, .


No, no !' exclaims the girl, shrinking
back.  I cannot go  I will not go !'

Hush, my love !' whispers Mrs. Chapman
; ' gloss it over, as I have done. The
least said, the soonest mended !*

I mil not go f repeats the girl, resolutely.
What is all this fuss about ?' demands

Major Durant, with flashing eyes.

I am afraid dear Beta is ill. She does
not feel equal to attending the ceremony,'
says Mrs. Chapman.

I am not ill,' exclaims the girl, standing
upright, and facing the assembly, ' but I cannot
go with Mrs. Wallerton /'

How dare you !' commences her father,
angrily; but the doctor draws him on one
side and entreats him to be silent and let the
funeral proceed.

So the bearers are summoned, and the
Silent Presence is marshalled out of the
room before them, followed by a wailing cry
of ' Mother ! mother 1' which rings in the
ears of more than one of the mourners during
the succeeding solemnity. And the guests
file after it and get into their carriages, and
Beta is left alone in the dining-room with
her face hidden in her hands.

After alonofjlono' interval of two hours Aunt
Janie returns, her eyelids swollen and her
crape veil hip with her tears ; but now that
she is relieved of the presence of the enemy,
full of righteous indignation against Major
Durant and Mrs. Wallerton, and determined

VOL. I. 5

that Beta shall never return to her father's
protection again.

It is impossible, my dear ; he will subject
you to the presence of that woman everyday,
and you know how your poor mamma
disliked her. It is an insult to her memory.
I don't feel as if she would lie quiet in her
grave if you make friends with Mrs. Wal-merton.*


Oh no, no I Indeed I could not ! I
shall never forget the last words my darling
mother said about her. But, Aunt Janie,
I must go back some time  because of Hyacinth,
you know.'

You will do no such thing ! You will
remain with me and be my child. Promise
me, Beta  promise that you will never
leave me.'

I don't wish to leave you, dear Aunt
Janie. I should like to live here for ever,
only '

At this juncture Major Durant is announced,
and enters the room. He looks

dark and angry, and refuses to take the seat
that Mrs. Chapman offers him.

I dare say you are surprised to see me
here again, Mrs. Chapman,' he commences
stiffly ; ' but I wish to have this matter
settled at once. My daughter Elizabeth has
behaved very badly to me  very badly indeed
'

'You behaved very badly to her,' rejoins
Aunt Janie.

We will let that pass, if you please. A
child is no judge of the actions of its father.
Elizabeth left my house against my orders,
and with the knowledge that I should refuse
to receive her again. But for late circumstances
1 should have adhered to that determination.
But since Mrs. Durant's death
leaves the girl without a natural protector,
I am willing, upon certain conditions, to take
her home with me.'

Beta refuses to return to Northallerton.
Crescent under any conditions,' says Mrs.
Chapman.

52

Pardon me ! but I must hear her determination
from her own lips. She is no
longer a child (as she has taken care to inform
me), and must, therefore, be quite competent
to give expression to her sentiments.'

What are the conditions ?' demands Beta,
as she raises her heavy eyes to confront her
father.

As the man meets his daughter's gaze, a
sudden chill seems to strike through his
frame : she looks so like his wife as he saw
her for the last time before the coffin-lid was
closed ; and something, not quite dead yet,
pricks his uneasy conscience.

Not very hard ones, Beta !' he answers ;
simply, that you shall behave to me as a
daughter should do, and receive my friends as
your own. But I must have no airs and
graces, mind you ! no allusions to the past,
nor rubbish' of that sort. You must act as a
sensible girl, or I won't have you at all.'

'Must I be friendly with  with  that
ivoman f

Whom do you mean by '' that woman " V
cries the major, fiercely.

Mrs. Wallerton !'

Of course you must ! why, what confounded
rubbish is this ? The best and
truest friend your mother had  who visited
her oftener and gave her more presents than
anyone else  and now you have got some
absurd crotchet in your head against her. I
won't have it, I say ! Mrs. Wallerton will
always be an honoured and welcome guest in
my house, and whoever lives there will have
to receive her as such.'

I cannot  I cannot !' sobs Beta, vehemently
; ' she killed my mother. They were
her last words, that Mrs. Wallerton had
killed her ; and I will not shake hands with
her nor speak to her again !'

Then stay where you are !' cries her father,
angrily.

He has grown very pale at his daughter's
open announcement, but he stands to his
ground. Perhaps he expected to hear something

of the sort  perhaps it is not the first
time he has heard it  anyway he bears the
shock bravely.

that she certainly shall do interposes
Aunt Janie, who can be courageous where
she has to back an assertion instead of refuting
it. ' Beta and I arrived at that conclusion
some days ago, so you might have
spared yourself the trouble of questioning
her.*

But she must understand the alternative
exclaims the major. ' If she refuses to return
to me now, I shall never give her
another opportunity. She may starve in the
gutter, or beg her bread from door to door.
I will have nothing further to do with her
from this day.'

Beta desires nothing better,' commences
Mrs. Chapman defiantly, but the girl interrupts
her.

Hyacinth !' she utters with trembling
lips ; ' may I not see her sometimes V

Certainly not 1' returns her father ; ' I

will not have the only child left to me contaminated
by your evil example, and set
against my best friends. There will be no communication
of any sort permitted between you.'
soh! what shall I do? What shall I
do V exclaims Beta in a voice of despair.

As she sits there, with clasped hands and
downcast eyes, trying to decide upon her
path of action, a vision rises before her of
her dead mother, lying still and saintly in
her coffin, with an aureole of pale hair about
her brow and the snow-wreaths on her grave
and then of the blooming widow with
flushed cheeks and sparkling eyes, and a
rustling of silk and a redolence of patchouli
about her  and she shrinks as though she
had stepped upon an adder !

Stay with us, darling !' murmurs Aunt
Janie in her ear. * You cannot return home
under present circumstances. Remember
your poor mother, and stay with us.'

Yes, yes ! I have decided ! Aunt Janie,
I will remain with you !'

Then all is over between us,' says Major
Durant, as he quits the room.

Xo mother and no father !' sobs Beta in
Mrs. Chapman's arms ; ' oh, Aunt Janie, it
does seem hard  but 1 could not go back to
that house again  after what she said.'

Hush, Beta ! never speak of that, my
dear. It is best we should try and forget it.
And don't say you have no mother ! / am
your mother, dearest, until my life ends.'

CHAPTER VI.

I WISH HE wouldn't COME HERE.'

It is useless for kind friends to come and
remonstrate with ]airs. Chapman at that
early period on the attitude she has assumed
towards Major Durant, nor the responsibility
she undertakes in persuading her niece not to
return to Northallerton Crescent. Aunt Janie
is too enthusiastic on the subject of her new
toy to be able to see the force of any arguments
brought to bear against her resolution.
She laughs at the idea of Beta ever proving
too expensive, or too troublesome, or too
anxious a charge for her small means and
smaller brains. Mrs. Chapman is the widow
of an army surgeon, living with her only

child on a very slender pittance, in a very
tiny house in the Earl's Court district. She
has often known what it is to be pinched for
means, and compelled to give up the comforts
of this lower existence ; still her gushing
affectionate heart, and her weak and quickly
impressed brain, continue between them to
make her believe that an extra mouth to
feed and an extra body to clothe will not
make their demands felt by her slender
purse.

Perhaps Aunt Janie expects a miracle to
be performed for the special benefit of herself
and Beta, and indeed she can be very pious
at times and quote texts about the ravens
and the widow's cruse of oil, that would
make a stranger to her disposition really
think that she had kept Beta at Earl's Court
for the sake of befriending the girl, instead
of for the pleasure of gratifying herself
Aunt Janie never gives one thought to the
supposition that she may be seriously injuring
the future prospects of her niece. She only

recognises the fact that her present conduct
is calling forth a host of arguments from her
more sensible friends, and a host of small
flatteries from the weak-minded ones.

It is useless to discuss the point with
me,' says Aunt Janie, with her sweetest
smile, ' for I have reasons for my present
action that cannot possibly be overthrown
by any worldly consideration. I feel that I
am only carrying out what would have been
my dear dead sister's last Lavishes had she
been able to express them, and that darling
Mary would never rest quiet in her grave
if I allowed Beta to return to the power of
that inhuman monster. Major Durant !'

To this touching sentiment most of Mrs.
Chapman's friends purr a sympathetic acquiescence,
but a few say, ' Humph !' and
amongst the few is Dr. Field. He has
known Beta Durant for many years, and
giving her credit for all her cleverness, with
not one half her strength of mind, he believes
that hers is one of the most dangerous temperaments

that can possibly be exposed to
the tempest of the world.

Better a thousand times he thinks to
himself, ' that that girl should endure however
unhappy a home with her father, than
be left to the fickle mercies of Mrs. Chapman,
or be cast adrift to earn her own
living.'

With which idea he draws so vivid a
picture for Aunt Janie of the weight and
responsibility of the burthen she has taken
on herself, that it sinks deep into her mind.

She will not acknowledge the reason of it
at the time (when does a silly woman ever
acknowledge the reason of anything ?), but
it returns upon her, little by little, as the
days go on, and not always unaccompanied
by a twinge of fear lest the doctor should
after all prove to be right, and she to have
done both a foolish and a hasty action.

And Beta's conscience, too, is not altogether
free of offence. She knows nothing
as yet, poor child, of butchers' and bakers*

bills, and almost as little of a young lady's
annual expenses for amusements and dress.
At sixteen all such anxieties are taken offa
girl's shoulders by her mother or her
guardian : and they are still amongst the
pleasures to come for Elizabeth Durant.
She has always been fed and clothed and
educated without any reference to herself,
and she does not suppose that she will be
any more trouble to her aunt than she has
been to her parents. No ! it is of Hyacinth
that she thinks : of the little sister who was
so dear to her dead mother : and to whom
she commissioned her with her last breath
to be a friend, and an example, and a
guide.

Beta sheds many bitter tears when she
remembers the pert brat who has been the
trouble and the nuisance of her life hitherto,
but who now appears, by the force of those
dyeing words, to be transformed into something
as near and as dear as a child of her
own.

She often cries for a sight of Cinthy half
through the night, although she hardly
believes that she will be parted from her
Ion Of. Her father will relent  Mrs. Wal-merton
will go away  something will happen
to make all things straight again  that is, as
far as they can be straight whilst her darling
mother is lying in the grave.

The girl fights hard with her grief She
is not the sort of girl to sit down idly and
nurse it with futile tears and lamentations.
She has her own pet theories about this
world and the next, and believes fully that
the separation is one of sight only and not
of spirit. Yet it is very hard to bear.
Each day seems to increase rather than
diminish the pain of missing her mother, as
though she had mourned first only her temporary
absence, fully expecting her after a
while to return, and was but waking up,
hour by hour, to the fatal truth that their
parting in this world is for ever.

Aunt Janie is very judicious at this period.

She allows Beta to spend her time pretty
much as she chooses, and so the weeks flew
by smoothly and quietly enough. Her
cousin Blanche is the great drawback to her
material comfort. This young lady, who is
a couple of years older than Beta, and has
been allowed by her weak-minded mother to
have her own way in everything, cannot
possibly understand how her cousin will ever
recover herself if she sits moping in her own
room all day, reading musty old books from
the small library her papa left behind him.
To Miss Blanche, a novelty in art needlework,
or a walk to Kensington High Street,
or a visit to friends  since such are the only
dissipations of which deep mourning Avill
permit  would appear a much more sensible
way of diverting one's mind.

But Beta does not care for needlework,
and shrinks from the sight of strangers, and
seems to take no interest in anything except
those old volumes which neither the widow
nor the daughter of Dr. Chapman have ever

thought it worth their while to dislodge from
the shelves on which he left them.

And such dry things, too ! Plays, of all
horrors !' cries Miss Blanche one day in
March, as she discovers Beta poring over
an obsolete edition of Colles Gibber's plays.
What can you find to interest you in
them r

Dry, Blanche ? Indeed they are not !
Such fine old plays : full of bold language
and strong situations !'

Oh, bother your strong situations, Beta I
Come down and have a strong cup of tea 
that's much more likely to do you good !
And Bobby Free's in the drawing-room,
telling us such tales about that old quiz, his
grandmother ! It'll kill you to listen to
them.'

 Mr. Free 1' repeats Beta, shrinking a
little backwards. ' Oh, I wish he wouldn't
come here !'

That's a polite speech, I must say, of one
of mamma's guests,' replies Blanche, laughing.

why, the Frees are amongst our
oldest friends. But you needn't mind /u'm, I
am sure, Beta ! Nobody ever thinks anything
of Bobby Free.'

I think your compliment is rather the
worst one of the two, Blanche,' says Beta,
with a faint smile, as she lays down her book
and prepares to follow her cousin to the
drawing-room. Mr. Bobert Free would
certainly not present a formidable appearance
to any young lady out of her teens, for
he is one of the ugliest and most awkward
specimens of the human race ever seen. He
is tall and lanky, and high-shouldered, with
very short-sighted, soft brown eyes ; a large
nose and mouth, and long, well-shaped feet
and hands. His face has a clever and resolute
appearance when in repose, but becomes
almost ludicrous when he attempts to smile ;
and as he always smiles when he catches
sight of Beta, he usually presents himself
before her in the character of a ' wide-mouthed,
gaping frog.' An astute observer

VOL. I. 6

would tell you that Robert Free's soft,
womanly eyes are sufficient to redeem the
rest of his features from the charge of ugliness,
and that each lineament of his face
bears upon it the impress of a tender and
loving spirit. But Beta has not yet learned
to be astute. She only sees the outer man,
and like most very young girls, because the
outer man expresses pleasure at the sight of
her, she is half afraid of him, she scarcely
knows why. She thinks him hideous, and
says so openly, although Aunt Janie has more
than once rebuked her for the assertion, reminding
her that Robert Free, being the
only son of Sir Willoughby Free, of Baron's
Court, who is as wealthy as he is proud, and
the presumptive heir of his grandmother,
Lady Free, stands a good chance of becoming
one of the richest men of the day,
and is not a person to be ridiculed, even
were his hands and feet three times the size
that they are. So Beta tries to be properly
polite to a young gentleman of so much

consequence, the upshot of which is, that
Mr. Free has already begun to compare her
cousin's boisterous greetings rather unfavourably
with the subdued and soft-toned voice
in which she bids him welcome. She looks
so fair and pale as she sits in the lamplight,
with her golden hair bound like a wreath
round her head, that he has fallen more
than once into the bad graces of Mrs. Chapman
and her daughter for beings caught
gazing at her when he ought to have been
listening to them.

Now, do talk, Mr. Free, and make yourself
agreeable !' exclaims Blanche, in a lively
manner. ' Tell us all the news. We have
been so cooped up lately, you know, that we
have heard nothing. Where have you been,
and what have you been doing, and what
brings you back again to town so soon? I
thought you had gone down to the Court for
good, until the season commenced. There's
nothing stirring in London, you know; it's
just as dull as ditch-water.'

G  2

'Well, there's less in the country Miss
Chapman. This frost stops all the hunting,
and my grandmother is so absurdly particular
she won't have any guests at the Court
during Lent, so that the house is simply unendurable.
How the pater stands it I can't
think, but I suppose he has grown used to it
by this time.'

I have always understood that Lady
Free was very reserved, and much addicted
to the society of serious people, and so forth,'
remarks Aunt Janie ; ' but I did not think
she was quite so strict as you make her out
to be.'

 Oh, she iS; Mrs. Chapman, I can assure
you  every inch of it. She carries her prejudices
to an absurd extent  so far, indeed,
that the pater's friends and mine scarcely
ever see the inside of the Court. They're
none of them good enough for Lady Free.
But it's rather hard upon us, isn't it V

Horribly hard !' cries Blanche, laughing.
 I expect you will rather take it out of the

old Court when you are master there, Mr.
Free V

That will not be in my father's lifetime
rejoins Robert Free, gravely.

Blanche ! how can you be so heedless V
interposes Mrs. Chapman. ' It is really sad
for you and sour dear father, though, Mr.
Free, to be unable to invite whom you like
to the Court.'

It is no home to me in consequence,' returns
the young man, simply, ' and never
will be, Mrs. Chapman. I often wish my
grandmother were more like other women.
How jolly some of them can be ! I was
dining last night with one of the pleasantness
people you ever met  good-looking, clever,
and with that happy knack of pleasing everybody
alike which so few hostesses possess.'

Indeed ! what is the name of your
paragon V demands Mrs. Chapman.

Mrs. Wallerton !' replies the young man,
unhesitatingly.

FOR hyacinth's SAKE.'

Mrs. Durant died in the middle of December
: it is now the middle of March, and
during those three months, the name of
Wallerton has never passed the lips of either
aunt or niece. Not that Mrs. Chapman
would have had any objection to discuss the
matter, her ideas on this subject, as on
several others, having become much modified
by time ; but Beta has so visibly shrunk
from mentioning either her father or the
widow, that Aunt Janie has not had the
pluck to take the initiative.

Now as the dreaded name passes so easily
and jauntily the hips of Mr. Robert Free,

the gifts pale face suddenly crimsons : and
she turns her eye imploringly on Mrs. Chapman,
as though she asked her dumbly what
to do. Aunt Janie looks a little conscious,
but goes on with her embroidery nevertheless.


By the way, Miss Durant continues Mr.
Free, with beautiful disregard to the feelings
of his listeners, ' I met a gentleman of your
name there, a Major Durant ; is he any
relation V

He is surprised to see Beta turn her
head the other way, bub Mrs. Chapman
answers the question for her.

Yes !' she says, gravely ; ' Major Durant
is a relation of my niece, but we have not
seen much of him lately.'

'A most agreeable person,' continues
young Free, thinking to please ; ' and he
appeared quite at home there. Indeed, I
heard some of the guests suggesting that it
was une affaire de coeur between him and
our fair hostess, and I must say it looked like

it. They seemed on the very best of terms,
and the major behaved more like the master
of the house than a visitor.'

At these words Beta rises suddenly, and
with a face working with emotion, runs out
of the room.

Foolish child !' says Aunt Janie with a
slight frown, as the closing of the door causes
her to look round.

Robert Free is, of course, all apologies.


 What have I said or done V he demands
with visible distress. * Have I offended Miss
Durant ? ought I not to have mentioned the
major to her V

My dear Mr. Free, it is not your fault ;
Beta is foolishly sensitive  that is all ! The
truth is, Major Durant is her father; but
they have, unfortunately, had a little domestic
disagreement, and the poor girl is staying
with me until it blows over, which I trust it
may soon do. These family quarrels are
such very unpleasant occurrences. T am

sure Ave never had such a thing during poor
dear Dr. Chapman's hfe/

'But I am so sorry I should have introduced
the subject,' urges Mr. Free. ' Why
did you not caution me, Mrs. Chapman ? I
should have bitten out my tongue sooner
than offend Miss Durant.'

How can you have offended her V interrupts
Blanche, pettishly. she hates her
father and Mrs. Wallerton too, and I suppose
she's dreadfully afraid they'll marry each
other. But I can't really see what business
it is of hers, and it's all affectation pretending
she cannot bear to hear them spoken of.
But Beta is awfully affected.'

No, my darling ! don't say that !' says
Mrs. Chapman, with mild maternal rebuke ;
the poor girl is much to be pitied, though I
am not at all sure if I am right in encouraging
her to keep up this feud with her family
any longer. She carries her animosity
altogether too far.'

By which speech it will be seen that Aunt

Janie is already beginning to weary of the
charge she has taken on herself. The fact is
she cannot help perceiving that Mr. Free
(who has known her Blanche since childhood)
is more interested in her cousin than he is in
herself; and she foresees shoals and quicksands
in the sea of matrimony on which she
hopes to launch her only daughter. For
Bobby Free is also an only child, heir to a
baronetcy and several thousand pounds a
sear, and she may look much farther before
she settles Blanche as comfortably as that.
And since Beta's sudden disappearance
causes the young man to become uncommunicative
and distrait, and to return to his
chambers much earlier than he has been in
the habit of doing, she speaks more sharply
to her niece on the subject of her conduct
that evening, than she has ever done
before.

It was not only exceedingly weak and
silly of you, Beta, to leave the room as you
did, when Mr. Free simply mentioned your

papa's name ; but it was rude and ill-mannered
into the bargain. I really must
say so. You quite spoilt our evening's
enjoyment. Mr. Free refused to stay for
supper, thinking, I suppose, that I wished to
be upstairs, consoling you ; and so both he
and Blanche were disappointed. I did not
think you would be so selfish !'

Oh, Aunt Janie I indeed I did not mean
to upset your evening, but to hear him talk
of papa and  and  her  in that manner  only
three months after  it seemed so shocking. 1
felt as if I could not stay and listen to him,'
sobs Beta.

My dear, you must not be so childish !
It was all very well at first, perhaps, and
I know that I indulged you in it more than I
ought to have done ; but now it is different,
you see. You cannot keep up such feelings
for ever, it would be wicked and unchristian ;
and so the sooner you accustom yourself to
think and talk of your papa as other daughters
do of theirs, the better

 Aunt Janie ! I can never  never do
that. He has not been as other fathers are
to me ! It is impossible to forget the

past r

Well, my dear, T am sorry to hear you
say so, for (for my own part) I confess I am
beginning to feel a little tired of these family
jars. They are wicked and unnatural, and I
am afraid I was very wrong in encouraging
you to maintain them.*

Aunt Janie ! are you tired of me V asks
Beta, pointedly.

The scales have suddenly fallen from the
girl's eyes. She has been asleep till now,
dreaming over her own bereavement and accepting
what was given her as freely as she
believed that it was offered ; but Mrs.
Chapman's present manner undeceives her. Ina
moment she has pierced through the artificial
exterior and read the true mind of her
aunt beneath it. The enthusiasm has faded ;
the warmth evaporated ; Mrs. Chapman is
weary of the role of benefactress and mother,

and feels the charge of her niece to be both
burdensome and expensive.

You are tired of me repeats Beta, with
kindling eyes.

Oh no, my dear child ! how can you say
so V replies Aunt Janie, looking somewhat
foolish notwithstanding ; ' but it grieves me
terribly to see you so obstinately set against
your papa. He is your only parent, you
know, Beta ; and if anything were to happen
to me, what would become of you ? And as
for his dining with Mrs. Wallerton, what nonsense
to take umbrage at that ! Is the poor
man never to have any amusement ? He
has been moped up for three months now (it
has been a most trying time for all of us, as
you know, Beta), and if he may not dine
out with an old friend '

Oh ! but, Aunt Janie, you know the
reason  you know it so well !'

I suppose you mean that the news affected
you, because you imagine that your papa may
take it into his head to marry Mrs. Wallerton.

Well, my dear, you can hardly expect him to
remain single for the rest of his life  a man
scarcely over forty  it would be ridiculous ;
and if he is to marry, I don't see why it
should not be Mrs. Wallerton as well as anyone
else. He has only himself to consult in
the matter.'

Aunt Janie /' exclaims Beta in a voice of
the deepest reproach.

She could not mean more if she used a
hundred words to express her meaning. Her
tone demands of her listener if she has forgotten
that agonising scene that took place
in the room downstairs when the sight of the
woman she so carelessly alludes to drew forth
the first words of complaint or accusation that
had ever passed the lips of her mother, and
which proved to be almost the last words
she uttered.

I know what you would allude to, my
dear replies Mrs. Chapman, uneasily ; * but
I can only repeat my words : I think this
quarrel between yourself and your papa altogether

wrong, and I consider it is your duty
to go and ask him to overlook the last three
months and take you back again.'

Take me hack /' echoes Beta in a tone of
horror, but the next moment she has closed
her teeth about her upper lip, and resolved
that she will betray no more of her feelings to
one who has evidently lost the power to
sympathise with them.  Very good, Aunt
Janie she adds presently,  I will think over
what you have said, and try to act upon it.
Good-night. Please leave me to myself, that
I may consider what is the best thing for me
to do.'

But of course, my dear child continues
Aunt Janie, already repenting her words,
this house is your home as long as ever you
wish to remain in it. Don't think I want to
get rid of you, my darling. You know I
have always said that I look upon you as a
sacred legacy from my beloved sister, and it
is only because I am so afraid that your
future interests may be endangered, that I

even hint at such a thing as a reconciliation
between yourself and your dear papa.'

But Aunt Janie's repentance comes a little
too late. Beta takes it for what it is worth,
and receives it accordingly.

*Yes, yes,' she murmurs faintly, as she
turns her head on one side, so as to avoid her
aunt's caress. She understands it all now.

That inhuman monster,' Major Durant, is
transformed into her ' dear papa,' and Aunt
Janie, who swore she should never return to
Northallerton Crescent, has become so anxious
concerning her future interests that she
thinks it is her duty to go and ask to be taken
back again.

Well, perhaps it is my duty,' thinks
Beta to herself, as Aunt Janie, having made
a feeble, tearful attempt to eat her own
words, and found her efforts received with
incredulity, has thought it as well to retreat
from the field of action ; * it will be a bitter
pill to swallow, and I feel as if I would
rather sweep a crossing than go through with

it; but for Hyacinth's sake, and for what
darling mother said about her, I think I can
do it  at all events I will try. And if anything
should happen to prevent it  if papa
should hold to his determination not to receive
me again  why, then I will earn my
bread by teaching, or sewing, or any means,
sooner than return here. I could have lived
with Aunt Janie for ever, so long as I
believed she loved me ; but now  now it is
very different,' thinks Beta, with proud, indignant
tears flashing in her lovely grey eyes.
She says if her father should hold to his
determination ; but in her own heart she has
little doubt of the issue of her appeal. She
appreciates how exquisitely painful it will befor
her to make it ; how humbling to her
pride ; what a sacrilegious trampling down of
all her most sacred memories ! She knows
that if she returns to Northallerton Crescent,
she will have daily to see and hear things
that will wound and torture her ; but she says
she can do it and bear it, and she ivill do it

VOL. I. 7

and bear it, for Hyacinth's sake. But that
Major Durant should seriously reject her
overtures for a reconciliation does not enter
into her calculations. A father determinately
stand out against his own child ! Why, the
thing is almost an anomaly ! for what do we
not forgive our children ? Not only for
youthful faults, impetuous answers, and careless
disobedience, but for many graver things ;
for ingratitude, rebellion, forgetfulness, or even
for deceit or robbery. There is nothing for
which a parent finds it impossible to pardon
his child, till Death closes the account of love
between them.

But many fathers have so refused to forgive
the errors of their offspring. No, not
fatherly but brutes ! Brutes not worthy the
name of men or parents ! And with all
Beta's experience of Major Durant's unkind
treatment of her mother, she is not prepared
to believe he will carry his resentment
beyond her grave. She is still very young,
poor child ; she has seen but little of the world

and its ways, and she knows nothing of how
passion will influence a man to act against his
best interests. She dresses herself with
trembling fingers the next morning, and prepares
to find her way back to Northallerton
Crescent. She does not tell Mrs. Chapman
of the mission on which she is bound ; Aunt
Janie may think she is going for her usual
morning walk, for a barrier has risen up
between the two since the evening before,
although the elder woman does her best to
cover it by honeyed smiles and kisses.

The weather is still very keen and frosty ;
but it is not cold enough to make Beta
shiver as she does under her fur, as she comes
in view of the familiar row of houses. A
dozen times she paces backwards and forwards
in front of the hall-door before she can
summon up the courage to ring the bell, in
hopes perhaps of seeing a face at the window
that shall nod or smile or beckon to her and
give her the encouragement she needs to
enter.

72

But there is no sign of any living creature
about the place, and at last the girl, calling
up all her resolution, runs up the steps and
demands admittance. A stranger opens the
door to her, and she is just about to inquire
for her father, when she catches sight of
Hyacinth in the hall ; Hyacinth, the imp
who will always hang about the banisters
and stairs against all orders to the contrary.
The appearance of her little sister opens the
floodgates of Beta's emotion. Her first
thought is, how she could ever have remained
away from her so long.

Cinthy ! Cinthy darling I' she cries
lovingly, as she presses forward to clasp her
in her arms.

But the child draws backward  hardly
seeming to recognise her sister in those
black robes, and with so pale and thin a
face.

Are you Beta V she inquires Wonderingly.


Yes, darling I your own sister Beta.

Don't you know me, Cinthy? Oh, I have
so longed and longed to see you !'

Oh yes ! I know you of course,' says
Miss Pert ; ' but I mustn't speak to you.
My papa has expressly forbidden it. He
says we are never to speak to each other
again  never !'

He cannot be so cruel !' exclaims Beta,
impetuously. ' He would not prevent my
speaking to my own mother's child ! Dear,
dear mother, you haven't forgotten her yet,
have you, Cinthy ? You haven't forgotten
our blessed mother in heaven, who is
thinking of you, and loving you every day V

Of course I have not forgotten her,
Beta. How could I, in only three months V
replies the young lady, with an assumption
of superiority. * Bentham took me to see
her grave several times. But oh, Beta,
I've got such a lovely new doll I I wish
I could show it you !'

So you shall, darling. Where is dear
old Bentham?' says Beta, forgetting everything

but that she is amongst familiar faces
again.

'Here I am, my dear Miss Beta!' exclaims
the nurse, coming downstairs, and
thro wins: her arms about Beta's neck. *I
heard your voice right up to the nursery  it's
just the moral of your blessed mamma's : I
was sure it could be no one but you. But
oh, my dear, what brings you here ? Suppose
the major should come home and find you ?
Aren't you afraid to risk it V

No, dear nurse ! No I I have come for
the express purpose of speaking to him ; and
if he is out, I shall wait till he returns. I
have come to tell him I will return home
again, Bentham, and to ask him to let things
be as they were before. Oh, I can't think
how it is I have stayed away so long from
you and Cinthy !'

Poor dear,' says Bentham, sympathisingly,
you've been nearly off your head, I daresay,
with your trouble. And I'd have been
over to see you, Miss Beta, but he wouldn't

let me. The major's laid his commands upon
every one of us as we wasn't ever to speak
to you.'

'But it will be all rioht again now, nurse.'

I hope it will, my dear, I'm sure, for
we've had a sad time of it. And I've missed
you sorely, Miss Beta, that I have.'

And I wanted you to see my doll,' cries
Hyacinth ;  it's such a beauty, with blue
eyes, and yellow hair, and a red satin frock.
Mrs. Wallerton brought it from Paris with
her. And Mrs. Wallerton buys me my
dresses now, and my hats, and I'm going to
live with her some day. Papa says so !'

Whats exclaims Beta, with one hand
pressed upon her heart.

Lor ! my dear, if you're going to start
like that every time Mrs. Wallerton is
named in this house, you had better bide
where you are,' says the servant. ' Why, she
rules the roost here, and orders me and Miss
Cinthy about like anything.'

But she is very kind,' interposes Cinthy,

eagerly ; ' she gave me my doll, and lots of
sugar-plums, and I like her, awfully !'

Beta draws away from her little sister
with a sudden pang. It is true, then ! Her
suspicions are correct. Mrs. Wallerton will
doubtless, before long, rule altogether at
Northallerton Crescent ! Will she ever be
able to bear it ?

The question is soon answered. At that
moment the latch-key is turned in the
door, and Major Durant enters the hall.
Beta turns to confront her father. As he
recognises her, he frowns deeply, and addresses
Bentham.

What is this ? Have I not given you
express orders that this  this person is not
to be admitted within my walls V

Papa, papa ! it is I  it is Beta.'

But Major Durant takes no notice of the
appeal.

What do you mean by disobeying me V
he shouts to Bentham.

 I didn't let Miss Durant in, sir ! I

heard her talking to Miss Hyacinth in the
hall, and I just came down to listen, not five
minutes ago. I didn't think there could be
any harm in that, sir.'

My orders to you were, that no communication
of any sort was to take place
between yourself and Miss Hyacinth and
this  this person I under penalty of receiving
your dismissal from my service. You
have disobeyed me, and you must go. Take
your month's warning from this date !'

Oh, sir ! pray don't send me away !
Think how long I have been in your service
with these two dear children from their
birth, and with the poor mistress through all
her illness. I have served you faithfully
for many years, sir ! Pray don't part me
from Miss Cinthy now ; it'll just go to break
my heart.'

You have wilfully disobeyed me, and you
must leave. Let us have no more words on
the subject !' replies Major Durant, preparing
to pass into the dining-room.

Father ! are you not going to speak tome
T exclaims Beta, as she places herself in
his way.

No ! I have nothing to say to you. The
sooner you return to your aunt's house the
better !'

Oh, papa ! I cannot return there  not to
live ! I came here to-day to ask you to let
me come home again ! I dare say I was
wrong and hasty to act as I did, but I was
in great trouble and I hardly knew what todo
or say ! I loved my mother very very
dearly, papa ! You know that, and you will
not count it to me as a fault, I am sure !'

If Beta thinks the allusion to her mother
will soften her father's heart towards her,
she is very much mistaken, for with it comes
the remembrance of how she slighted Mrs.
Wallerton for that mother's sake. And
she looks too much like the dead woman as
she stands there, with pallid cheeks and
swollen eyes and quivering lips  too much as
she used to appear when she pleaded against

her husband's cruelty in preferring her false
and smooth-tongued friend to herself.

When a man is attempting to stamp out
such unpleasant recollections by drinking
deep at the fountain of a new love, he does
not care to have a living reminder of his
frailty, as it were, constantly before him ;
and as his fair-haired daughter raises her
mother s eyes to his face and pleads to him
in her mother's voice, he positively hates her.

I never blamed you for loving your late
mother,' he answers coldly ; ' I blamed you
for the method you took of showing that
love. However, it is futile to discuss the
subject. You have chosen your lot, and you
must abide by it !'

But, papa ! surely you will not refuse to
receive me again, if I am willing to come I
I will try and do my duty, papa ! I will say
that I am sorry for what has occurred, and I
will be as good a daughter to you as I
possibly can, for my dear mother's sake.'

I am much obliged for all your good intentions,

but as far as I am concerned they
are useless. Your conduct has closed these
doors against you for ever.'

Do you mean to say that we are never
to be reconciled aoain V cries Beta aghast
as a true sense of the position she has
placed herself in dawns upon her mind.
But I have nowhere to go, papa ! Aunt
Janie is tired of keeping me ; and if you turn
me out of doors again, I must beg in the
streets, or starve.'

Major Durant's face assumes an expression
of malicious triumph.

 I foresaw what all your fine independent
speeches would result in,' he says, with a
fiendish smile, ' but I am not to be taken in
by them a second time. You have received
a first-rate education, and if Mrs. Chapman
refuses to keep you in idleness any longer,
you had better turn it to some account. You
are a ivoman, remember  sixteen on your
last birthday, and amenable to the discipline
of no one. If the law compels me to allow

you a pittance I will do so, but not in this
house nor under any roof that shelters me
and my belongings. You have chosen to
leave it once of your own accord, you will
be good enough to leave it now on my
orders ; and if you attempt to enter it again, I
shall put the matter into the hands of the law !'
All the pride in Elizabeth Durant's nature
is boiling on the surface. Her father's
words and manner have decided her. She
would not stoop to ask another favour at his
hands now, if she had to die without it.

You are right !' she answers slowly, and
with a look of ineffable scorn ;  the same
roof can never shelter you and me again. I
can support myself, papa !  and I will. And
if I fail, I will die sooner than eat a crust of
bread that has been paid for with your
money. Good-bye, darling Cinthy ! Don't
forget poor Beta, and mother in heaven;
and remember we shall all meet there some
day soon !'

I wish you wouldn't make me cry ! It's

disagreeable of you,' says Cinthy, whining.
And don't go,Betha, till you've seen my doll!'

Good-bye, dear old Bentham ! Take
double care of Cinthy, for T shall never be a
trouble to you again !'

Oh, my dear blessed child, let me kiss
you once more before you go !'

If you presume to fly in my face by such
an action,' exclaims Major Durant, fiercely,
*you shall not even remain here till your
month is up, but leave the house at the same
moment as herself!'

Bentham ! you must not  you shall not !'
cries Beta, as she keeps off the old servant
with one hand. ' No one must suffer for
this business but myself. I am going, papa ;
there is no need to thrust me from your doors,
and I will never re-enter them, until you ask
me to do so.'

Then you will stay out of them for ever,'
says the major, as the hall-door slams on the
figure of his eldest child.

'l AVILL ALWAYS BE YOUR FRIEND.'

Mr. Robert Free is standing in the little
drawing-room of Mrs. Chapman's house,
gazing thoughtfully from the window, and
wondering when the ladies will return. He
arrived there, half an hour before, with his
hands full of Russian violets, very anxious
to make amends for the awkwardness which
had broken up the party on the previous
evening  and still more anxious (if the truth
must be told) to see Beta again, and learn
from her manner if she bears him any ill-will
for that unlucky lapsus linguae that
drove her from the room. But Aunt Janie
and Blanche left the house soon after Beta,

and Bobby's only alternative is to lounge
about on chair after chair in the small
drawing-room, until one or all of them shall
see fit to return. As he does so, if he looks
eminently ugly, he also looks eminently
gentlemanly.

Lady Free would resent the idea of his
even looking ugly. Large noses and mouths
have been the leading characteristics of the
Frees for generations past, and Bobby
would scarcely be recognised by his grandmother
unless he perpetuated the family
features with the family blood. She is as
proud of one as of the other. She thinks
there are no men equal to the Frees, and
no women really worthy of being mated with
them.

Bobby, though strictly reared in the faith
of his forefathers, and rather proud of his
big nose, perhaps as a mark of his blood, still
credits himself with all the ugliness he possesses,
and is very humble on the score of
his own attractions. He is a young man,

now two or three and twenty, but he is still
as awkward and uncouth as when he was
sixteen, and just as apt to upset a table of
ornaments, or spill a chip of tea over a lady's
dress, as he was then. Of good birth and
position, with plenty of money to throw
about, it is not likely that his big nose has
stood in the way of his fortunes with the fair
sex ; but since he recovered from his calf-love,
Bobby Free has never seen any girl
who really enchained his interest, until he
met with Elizabeth Durant. He is clever
and practical, as most ugly men are, and there
is something' in the flashes he has caught of
Beta's spirit that have appealed to his
own.

He has the power to read beneath the girl's
half-awakened intellect, a genius that rightly
directed may stir the world ; and he has taken
it into his head that he has a divine mission
to encourage and direct it. In those quiet
evenings they have spent together at Mrs.
Chapman'S; he has discovered how much

VOL. I. 8

Beta has both read and retained ; how
many bright clever thoughts pass through
her active brain ; how imitative she is ; how
witty, how quick at repartee. It is only a
sentence here and there dropped in general
conversation that has led him to the conviction
; and it is only a glance here and there,
sometimes pathetic and sometimes gay, that
has made him believe that Beta is not only
the cleverest but the most charming girl he
has ever seen.

How astonished will be the forlorn young
heart and aching breast that are hurrying
towards him as he ruminated to learn such
an astounding truth.

Mr. Free hears the handle of the front
door turn, and immediately rises to receive
his coming hostess. But Mrs. Chapman
does not appear. A pale face is thrust
inside the drawing-room door instead, and
instantly withdrawn again, but not before he
has caught sight of it.

Miss Durant !' he exclaims joyfully ; and

then Beta is compelled to enter and be
ordinarily polite to him.

How do you do, Mr. Free ? I thought
Aunt Janie was here. Have you been long
alone V

No  yes  that is, about half an hour ;
but I would have waited the whole day for
the pleasure of seeing you. Do you feel the
cold, Miss Durant '? you are looking so pale
I thought it was thawing this morning, as
I walked over here.'

I think it is thawing,' repHes Beta, as
she bends over the fire. ' Oh, what lovely
violets !'

(Is there a woman in the world who can
resist flowers ?)

I brought them for you. Will you dome
the honour of accepting them V says
Bobby Free with much needless stammering,
as he thrusts the bouquet into her hands.

For me ! did you really ? How very, very
kind of you I' replies Beta, gratefully ; but
there is no ring of pleasure in her voice.

' Yes, I was so anxious to see you, Miss
Durant, and apologise for my stupid blunder
last evening. I didn't know, of course  I
had not heard, you see  and  and (don't
be angry with me for mentioning it again) ;
but I would have cut off my right hand
sooner than give you pain  indeed I would.'

 It is nothing ! Pray, say no more about
it, Mr. Free,' replies Beta, quickly. ' I
was foolish and thoughtless ; but I have got
over that now.'

She seems so unlike the girl who flew out
of the room last night with flashing e3''e3 and
crimsoned cheeks, that Mr. Free can only
stare at her, and wonder what can have happened
between that time and this, to render
her so self-possessed and calm.

Then I may consider myself forgiven X he
says.

Quite forgiven. The subject is not one
I should choose, but I will never resent the
mention of it again.'

'Ah, Miss Durant, hour o-ood you are f

You make me bold enough to say, how glad
I should be if I could render you any assistance.
If there were only one thing in which
I could help you, or be of service to you, I
should be so very, very happy !'

Perhaps you can help me,' says Beta,
with her eyes fixed dreamily upon the
fire.

Tell me in what way.'

Why, you are rich, Aunt Janie says, and
have plenty of friends ; and I want so much
to make money, Mr. Free. Get me something
to do  some work  some employment,
and it will be the greatest favour you could
show me.'

Work  employment !' echoes Bobby ;
you are laughing at me, Miss Durant.'

It appears so incredible to those who hav
been accustomed to every luxury from their
birth that young people  and especially
young women  should be called upon to
labour for their daily bread.

I am not laughing,' replies Beta, gravely;

I have no home, and I am going to work
for my living

No home ! when you live here with Mrs.
Chapman !'

Oh no ! I don't rejoins the girl, quickly ;
I am only staying here on a visit, and I
shall soon be gone.'

'But your father. Major Durant  you
said I might mention him, you know, Beta
what would he say to the idea of your
taking up employment like any common
person V

 My father, Major Durant,' repeats Beta,
with an hysterical laugh.  It is he that
told me to do it. I have just come from
him, Mr. Free, and he turned me out of
his house and told me I might beg or starve
before he would admit me there again. Oh,
I ought not to tell you of these things, perhaps,
but all the world will know it soon.
And so you see, I must work  I must get
some honest work to do ; and if you can tell
me of any plan b} which I can turn what

knowledge I have to account, I shall be so
very grateful to you !'

But Mr. Free can only stand there silent
and aghast at the reception of her news.
Those hands to work  that golden-crowned
head to be bowed over her daily toil  those
sweet grey eyes to be dimmed by midnight
study ! Oh, the thought alone is sacrilege !
The girl must either have made some hideous
mistake, or the father been playing on her
feelings with a view to testing: her courage
and determination.

Good heavens !' he murmurs ; ' it cannot
be true.'

But it is true, Mr. Free  and please
don't begin to pity me, because I must think
and act for myself, and there will be plenty
of time for sentiment afterwards.' Then she
turns and looks at him, and the childishness
of her nature appeals to the youth of his.
The elder people are all against her ; perhaps
this boy will accept her confidence and understand
her feelings and respect them. ' It is

all on account of mother, you know,' she
whispers, with a great sob in her throat. ' I
cannot forget her, and  and  papa can, and
so it is best wee should not live together.
Don't ask me any more, please, but if you
can help me I shall think you are a true
friend, and I shall never forget it.'

I could live and die for you I' cries Bobby
Free, impulsively ; and then the great secret
comes out :  Be tha, darling ! let me live for you.
I know we are both very young, and perhaps
the pater would want us to wait for a little 
at least, I don't think the pater would, but
grand mamma's so very particular, and she
leads him by the nose. Anyway, you could
stay here with your aunt until they gave
their consent ; and I'm such an idle fellow,
you know, I could see you as often as ever
I liked, and '

Stay here ! stay here /' repeats Beta, ina
bewildered manner; 'but I have just told
you I must go, Mr. Free. I am going out
into the world to make my own living 

there is nothing to be done by staying
here !'

You don't understand me, darling  I
mean that you should only remain here until
-we are married.'

 Married /' says Beta  ' you and I
married /'

She is a Avoman in many things, but she
is a perfect child in this. Not only has she
been so securely guarded beneath her
mother's wing that no man has ever approached
her near enough to make such a
suggestion, but she has lived so much at
home in the companionship of Mrs. Durant
and her little sister, that she has not been in
the habit of discussing the subject even with
her female friends. And as to imagining it
could be proposed to her so soon, and from
the lips of Mr. Free  the idea frightens as
much as it surprises her.

Why not ?' demands Bobby, gaining
courage to draw nearer and take her hand in
his. * If you will promise to be my wife,

Beta, all your troubles will be over, and
you need never talk again about such a
dreadful thing as working for your livelihood.'


But Beta wrenches her hand out of his,
and retreats to the further end of the hearth-rug
with a face of crimson.

Oh, no, no ! you mustn't talk to me like
that  you have made a great mistake. You
are altogether wrong !' she exclaims vehemently.


Don't you love me,' cries Bobby  ' not a
little bit V

Not the least bit ! I never did, and I
never shall. Oh, I wish I had never told
you anything if it is to end like this !'

Don't say that, Beta, because it pains
me so. I wanted to help you  indeed I did :
but all of a sudden it flashed upon my mind
how much I love you  and I thought you
might consent to be my wife, instead. I
know I'm an ugly fellow, and have very little
to recommend me, but I have never loved

anybody before, Beta, and I shall never
love anybody again  at least, not in that
way r

Oh, why did you say anything about the
other thing,' says Beta, relenting at the
pathetic appeal of those soft brown eyes,
and when I so much want a friend V

Let me be your friend still ! If you are
really bent upon this plan I will go to the
Duchess of Smeaton and Lady Wolverton,
and see if they can think of some work that
is fit for you to do. I know lots of old
ladies who would be delighted to help you !'

'No, no !' says Beta, with a mournful
shake of the head ; ' I think you had better
leave it alone, Mr. Free. I must work, but
I do not wish to get mixed up with all those
grand people, who will know papa's name
and find out my whole history !'

The pride of blood is rising in Beta again,
and she regrets she has ever mentioned the
matter to her companion.

I must go now,' she says presently, for

she is longing to get away from the pleading
look he keeps fixed upon her, 'but I dare say
Aunt Janie and Blanche will soon be home.
Good-bye, Mr. Free.'

Good-bye,' he says hoarsely, as he holds
the hand she tenders him ; * and is there no
hope, Beta V

I will always be your friend,' replies the
girl gravely, as she turns from him and quits
the room.

I AM BETTER NOW.

Beta runs up to her own room and remains
there in the cold, half frightened and
bewildered. There is none of the elation
about her that most young girls feel on first
receiving a proposal of marriage. She thinks
a fresh misfortune has occurred to her, and
wonders if she is to blame, or what she has
done to bring about so unfortunate a mistake
on Mr. Free's part. She tries to find out if
the error is on her side, and if that great
mysterious thing called love has really come
upon her unawares ; and to that end pictures
herself walking to church with Bobby Free,
and looking up at his uncouth face and

figure, whilst a crowd of spectators are gazing
at them. And, young as she is, the girl
knows by the shudder that comes over her at
the mere idea, that the young man has placed
a gulf between them by what he has said
that day, that no time perhaps will have the
power to bridge over. She listens to his
heavy step pacing the little room below for
some minutes after she has left it, and then
she hears him go downstairs and pass out
into the road, slamming the hall-door after
him. That sound is the greatest relief Beta
can experience, and dressed in her walking-things,
she sits upon her bed trying to think
to whom she can next apply for assistance in
her undertaking. As she does so, the
thought of Miss Denny comes into her mind.
The lady superintendent of Princess College
has considered Miss Durant's energy and
determination of character to be less
elegant ' than her own lowered eyelids and
minced words approve of; but, at the same
time, she has always acknowledged her ability

and lamented it vas to be thrown away in
private life. Beta thinks Miss Denny
would not refuse to give her a trial as a pupil
teacher perhaps, or to assist with the junior
classes for lanouaoes and elocution. The
idea is as hateful to the girl as it can possibly
be  she knows that she would rather scrub
floors than drum accent, and emphasis, and
gesture into soulless ears, but the instinct of
race is strong in her, and she feels that she
must not attempt physical work until she
has failed with the intellectual. She is
roused from her reverie by the voices of her
aunt and cousin as they toil up the narrow
staircase to their bedroom, which is next to
hers.

Mamma ! I think it is disgraceful,' says
Blanche, petulantly ; * Mary says she was fora
whole hour cooped up with Bobby Free in
the drawing-room. She is under your care
now, and you ought to teach her better !'

I begin to wish she had never been under
my care sighs Aunt Janie ;  what with

your disagreements and Major Durant's obduracy
and the way people talk, I'm pretty
nearly sick of the whole affair. And she's
such an expense, too. The bills have been
half asrain as much since she entered the
house !'

Of course they have I Mary takes advantage
of there being an extra mouth to eat
double on her own account, and she is always
complaining of the increased trouble into the
bargain. But, mamma, you must speak to
Beta about Bobby Free. I won't have her
take my friends away in that fashion. I've
seen her trying to do it for weeks past.'

Oh dear ! oh dear !' laments Mrs. Chapman,
weakly ;  I do wish I could see an end
to it. I little thought when I sheltered her
from her father's anger what I was bringing
on myself If nothing happens during the
next few days, I must really go and speak to
Major'Durant on the subject.'

Beta's indignation, as she overhears this
conversation, reaches boiling-point. Her

impulse is to rush out upon the landing and
tell her cousin and her aunt that, very far
from wishing to take their friend Mr. Free
from them, she has just refused his overtures
of a much more tender nature. But her inborn
delicacy, joined to a recollection of the
pleading look in those soft brown eyes,
prevents Beta from defending herself at his
expense. Aunt Janie and Blanche must
think what they choose : their words have
only made her more determined to take the
first opportunity of seeing Miss Denny, and
try to relieve them of her unwelcome presence.


But at that juncture a loud double knock
is heard, and in another minute Mary taps at
Beta's door to say that Miss Kemyss is
waiting below to see her.

Beta runs down at once to greet her
friend.

Mattie Kemyss has been a constant visitor
at Mrs. Chapman's house during Beta's
sojourn there, and has more than once

VOL. I. 9

pressed her old schoolfellow to pay her a
lengthened visit. Mattie is the only daughter
of a rich Widower, who indulges her in every
whim, so long as she allows him to pursue his
own pleasures unmolested, so that the beautiful
girl is ostensibly her own mistress, and
now that she has given up the Princess
College, holds hiorh revels at Albert Gate.

Dear, darling Beta ! I am so delighted
to see you,' she cries, in her pretty, silly
enthusiasm, as she devours her friend with
kisses ; ' I have been dying to come over for
the last week, but I had such a horrid cold
the doctor wouldn't hear of my going out.
But I've come to steal you away, Beta.
Now, no excuses, for I won't take any ;
we've got something going on at home, and
we can't possibly do without you !'
What is it, dear Mattie V
Well, it wil be my birthday on the 3rd
of April, and Conrad Levison (that's the
fellow I am engaged to, you know) has set
his heart upon our getting up some private

theatricals or tableaux vivants, or something
of that sort, and you must come and arrange
them for us and teach us all our parts

I, Mattie V sajs Beta, with surprise ;
 but what do I know about theatricals V

Oh, my dear child ! don't talk such nonsense.
Just think of the heaps of plays you
used to spout from at college, and Mr.
Livingstone always declared you were a born
actress. I know you can put us right in the expression
and feature and everything. Besides
which continues Mattie, caressingly', * you
must come, for my sake. You can't think
how I long to have you to stay with me,
Beta. I am so lonely in that big house,
with papa and my brothers always away.
Why, sometimes I hardly see them for days
together. And papa is so anxious for you to
come, too. See ! I have brought you a note
from him, and he says if you will consent to
stay a month or two with me, you will place
him under the greatest obligation.'

A month or two at Albert Gate ! An 



mediate release from the grudging hospitality
of Aunt Janie, and time to think over
and mature her own plans. The offer is too
good to be rejected. Beta accepts it
eagerly.

 Oh, Mattie, it is very good of you to
Vivant me, and I should like to come. It will
seem like the old days to be talking to you
again. And I have much to tell you, dear 
much that will surprise and shock you,
perhaps, for I  I am not very happy here.*

My poor darling !' cries the affectionate
Mattie, as she throws her arms about
Beta ; * don't think or speak of it again.
Let us go at once. My carriage is waiting
at the door, and I told papa that I should, if
possible, take you back with me.'

You must give me time to tell my aunt,*
replies Beta, as she leaves the apartment.
The next minute she is standing on the
threshold of Mrs. Chapman's room.

'Aunt Janie ! Mr. Kemyss has been kind
enough to send me an invitation to stay with

Mattie for a few weeks, and I am going
back with her at once.'

There is a new look in Beta's face that
Aunt Janie does not quite like, and she
affects to be much astonished at her news.

Going back with Miss Kemyss at once !
Well, really, Beta, I think, considering the
hospitality you have received under my roof,
that you might have paid me the compliment
of consulting my wishes first.'

I will not go unless you wish me to do
so, Aunt Janie ; but from what you said last
night, I thought it would be rather a relief to
you than otherwise.'

Mrs. Chapman grows very red.

Of course I do not wish to deprive you
of any enjoyment, my dear, but your
announcement is rather sudden. What do
you wish done about your boxes V

Will you be so good as to send them after
me to Albert Gate  all of them, please,
Aunt Janie, as my visit may be a long one.'

 One would really think you intended running

away from us for good says Aunt
Janie, nervously.

The girl does not answer, but she looks her
in the face, quietly, earnestly, fully, and the
pale blue eyes sink before the grey ones.

Whatever may be in the future, Aunt
Janie, I thank you very much for what is
past. I dare say I have been a somewhat
troublesome visitor. A great grief is so apt
to make one selfish ; but I am getting better
now, and I mean to work more and occupy
my mind. Good-bye ! I shall write to you
often, and tell you what I am doing ; and I
shall always feel very grateful to you for the
kindness you have shown me, and sorry that
I should have brought any worry or expense
upon you.'

h, my darling child ! whoever said that
you were any worry or expense to me V replies
Aunt Janie, weeping. ' The few words
I let drop last night were only intended for
your good.'

She guesses now that the girl does not

mean to return to her, and though it is the
end she has been hoping for, she is too weak-minded
to rejoice that it has come.

I believe that  or I believe that you believe
it,' says truthful Beta ; * but let us
never think or speak of it again. Good-bye
to you both. When I have been a few days
in Albert Gate I shall be better able to write
and tell you all I think and feel than I am
to sav it.' And in a few minutes she is rolling
away with Mattie Kemyss to her new
abode.

Beta has not been happy whilst with
Mrs. Chapman. During the last few days
she has been wounded and outraged. Still,
she cannot help feeling, as she drives from
Earl's Court, that the last mooring has been
cut, to send her little boat adrift on the pathless
sea of life.

'it is impossible!'

Mr. Kemyss is a merchant, and a Jew,
though it is very seldom he can be brought
to acknowledge the fact. Both he and his
children bear the traces in their features of
Hebraic origin  shown forth in the lovely
Mattie only by the languid softness of her
dark eyes, and the delicate shape of her
aquiline nose  but they have all been
brought up to ignore the circumstance.
They associate with the men and women of
their own nation, Mr. Conrad Levison, to
whom Miss Kemyss is engaged to be married,
being one of the richest and best-known
diamond-merchants in the City. But

they do not attend the Synagogue, nor perform
any of the rites of their supposed religion.
Mr. Keinyss, indeed, professes (if he
professes anything) to be a Freethinker.
His sons, who are both enofaijed in the same
trade with himself, are as careless as most
young men of the present day ; and the
daughter of the house is allowed to do
exactly as she chooses in all things, no limit
being placed on her expenditure, nor supervision
directed to her mind  the worst possible
training for a young, heedless creature,
with extraordinary beauty, an affectionate
heart, and a very small amount of brains.

The house at Albert Gate is large, and
handsomely furnished, replete with every
luxury, and provided with an ample retinue
of servants. As the two girls leave the carriage
and pass into the library, their feet
sink into a velvet-pile carpet, their senses are
saluted by the odours of choice flowers, and
their glances fail on w alls covered with some
of the best specimens of modern art.

Elizabeth Durant has not been accustomed
to such a palatial residence as this,
but nothing that she sees startles her. Her
father's house in Northallerton Crescent contains
most of the comforts of a middle-class
residence : her Aunt Janie's, in Earl's Court,
rather less : yet you might place the girl ina
mansion twice as magnificent as that of
Mr. Kemyss without making her heart beat
faster by a single stroke. It forms one of
the greatest distinctions between the wellborn
man, or woman, and the child of the
soil. You may raise the former to the
pinnacle of a throne without making him
giddy ; he feels himself so capable of filling
any position in life, that no elevation dazzles
him : and he sinks as gracefully as he can
rise.

As Beta and Mattie ensconce themselves
by the library fire until afternoon tea shall be
served to them, the one girl lets her glances
rove over the luxurious apartment they sit
in as carelessly as the other ; each is intent

only on interesting herself in the affairs of
her companion.

And so you are engaged to be married,
Mattie V says Beta. ' How wonderful that
seems, when one remembers that only three
months ago we were trying for the same
prizes.'

sand that you got them all,' laughs
Mattie. ' Well, I can't say I see anything
very wonderful in it myself, Beta ! It only
strikes me as disagreeable and inconvenient.
I can't tell you how I hate the whole business.'


Hate being engaged !' exclaims Beta,
with wide-open eyes.

Her knowledge of love and marriage has
been culled from the pages of poets and
novelists, and she has thought, hitherto, that
when a girl became engaged she had reached
the very acme of happiness.

Indeed I do,' replies Mattie. 'You can't
imagine Avhat a bore it is. The creature expects
one to be always at his beck and call ;

and if I break an appointment with him,
or go to a party when he has arranged to
take me to the theatre, he calls on papa for
an explanation, and then there are black
looks, and I am called to order, and Mr.
Levison sulks and doesn't come near us for a
week, which is the best thing he ever does.'

But don't you like going out with him
then V asks Beta.

Like it, my dear !  I should think not !
He is only thirty, or thereabouts, but he's
the most awful old fogey you ever saw. He
won't take me anywhere but behind the curtain
of a private box, nor let me dance
round dances, and he makes a fuss if I wear
a low dress ; and if I happen to nod to any
young fellow I meet, why, I don't hear the
end of it for a month. Oh, I hate him like
poison ! and if I don't lead him a dance
when we're married, it will be a pity, I can
tell you !'

But, Mattie ! surely you will never marry
him  not if you hate him,' gasps Beta, her

breath quite taken away by the revelations
of her friend ; 'why should you do it, dear,
unless you wish it with your whole heart V

Why should I do it, Beta ? Because
he's one of the richest men in England.
Have you never heard of the Lessons ?
Papa says they're a money power in the
City, and I'm to have a couple of thousand
a year for pin-money alone. Oh ! I do
wish it, I assure you  I wouldn't have the
match broken off for the world ; but I
mean to go my own way, nevertheless.
I couldn't do anything else with Conrad
Levison ; for in the first place we have
not two ideas in common  you will die of
laughing when you hear what a prig he is
and in the second, he's such an out-and-out
Jew : and I hate Jews !'

Beta is too polite to suggest that her
friend has every reason not to hate the people
she speaks of She is so amazed at and
sorry for what she has heard, that she can
only stare in the fire, and wonder silently

how such a marriage can possibly lead to
anything but misery.

You haven't got any little affair of this
sort on hand yourself, have you, Beta V
demands Mattie presently, as she sips the
tea from her delicate porcelain cup.

'Oh no ! How should I V says Beta,
colouring. ' I  I  never see anybody, and
I have hardly been out of the house, you
know. Besides, my lot will be a very different
one from yours, Mattie, though it may
not be less happy. I told you I had many
things to say to you. One is, that when I
leave your house it will be to earn my own
living.'

And then she tells her friend, in confidence,
what has been already told for her ;
and Mattie embraces her warmly, and declares
that as long as she lives Beta must share
her money and her home.

You dear, sweet darling !' she cries.
Fancy your working for your daily bread in
any way whilst I have two thousand a year

for my pin-money ! But I will give half of
it to you, Beta. A thousand pounds will
keep you very comfortable till you are married
yourself, which you may be before you
leave this house, after all.'

But Beta shakes her head and smiles.
She is so much older in mind and feeling
than her friend.

It is just like your generous self, Mattie,
to think of such a thing. But it is quite
impossible, dear ; and if you had fifty thousand
a year that you did not know what todo
with, it would make no difference. I
would not accept five shillings when I could
earn them. I feel very keenly on this point,
Mattie. I think that pride is the strongest
feeling I possess, and I must beg you not to
mention a word of what I have told you to
Mr. Kemyss, for fear he might offer to assist
me. If he wants to do so, I should leave
the house at once. And I think I shall be
so happy here. I'm sure you won't drive me
from it.'

Oh dear, oh dear ! this is very uncomfortable,'
sighs Mat tie. ' I shall begin to
hate the sight of money, if it's never to do
any good. Bat we mustn't begin to mope,
Beta, mast we ? Let us talk about the
theatricals. '

'By all means says Beta, brightening
up. ' Where are they to be held ?'

In the back drawing-room. We have a
stao-e and footlishts all ready, but we can't
agree what to do. I want tableaux, but
Mr. Levison is trying to persuade papa to
have a play, just because he fancies he can
act, and knows he is too hideous for anything
else. I told him we would appear
together as  Beauty and the Beast," but he
didn't seem to relish the idea.'

I am afraid you must try his patience,
Mattie ; and to act a play will certainly be a
much greater exercise of brain.'

When you know I haven't got any,' says
Miss Kemyss, who is never backward in
acknowledging her own deficiencies.

Oh, Mattie, you don't do yourself justice.
There are many little drawing-room pieces in
which you might appear with the greatest
advantage.'

'Well, it strikes me the less I open my
mouth the better. That is why I want to
have tableaux. I know I can look nice if I
can't do anything else. But you will act too
won't you, Beta ? Nothing will go off
properly unless you take a part in it.'

But at this proposal Beta shakes her
head resolutely.

No, no, Mattie ! You mustn't ask me.
Remember how deep my mourning is yet.
It would not be proper that I should do so,
and entirely against my own inclinations.'

Her friend continues to urge her, but in
vain. Beta promises to take any amount
of trouble that may be necessary for the
preparation of the approaching performance,
but she positively declines to appear herself.
When Mr. Kemyss meets her, later in the
evening, he welcomes her very kindly to his

VOL. I. 10

house, begging her to remain there as long
as ever her aunt will give her permission to
stay. The brothers also  Lionel and Alfred
Kemyss  pay her so much attention that
she is subjected to a merciless amount of
'chaiF'fromMattie.

But though Beta dislikes the chaff, she
is grateful for the attention which makes her
feel thoroughly at home. Indeed, in a few
'days the family seem to have established
her at Albert Gate as one of themselves, and
it becomes quite strange to the girl to wake
up with a start and remember that in a very
short time she must go forth again to seek
the work by which she hopes to maintain
herself.

There is one of the circle at Albert Gate,
though, whom Beta cannot like, though she
is anxious to do so, and that is Mr. Conrad
Levison, Mattie's affianced husband : a short
ill-made man, with a head like a barber's
block, and a look of sinister coldness, Mr.
Levison can certainly have nothing but his

money to recommend him. He does not appear
to be fond of Miss Kemyss  few men
perhaps could be fond of a silly girl who
seizes every opportunity to irritate or contradict
them  but yet he is profoundly
jealous of her. He follows her movements
about the room as a cat watches a mouse,
and is ready to take offence at the least
slight she puts upon him. And Beta,
ignorant as she is of such matters, yet knows
sufficient to tremble for the happiness of her
friend, linked for life to such a man.

Mattie gains her own way with respect to
the tableaux vivants, and decides to appear
in the triple characters of the * Sleeping
Beauty ' Lady Jane Grey,' and ' Titania,*
which puts it out of all question that Mr.
Levison should assist her either as the Fairy
Prince, Lord Dudley, or Oberon. To uphold
these parts, the services of a young and very
handsome clerk in her father's firm are
secured : a youth of eighteen, slim as a reed,
and fair as an angel ; and Beta, seeing the

102

scowl on Mr. Levison's face as he watches the
rehearsals in the back drawing-room, thinks,
half-fearfully, that Mattie's cwzce looks more
like a murderer than a bridegroom.

'GIVE ME A WEEK TO DECIDE.'

On the evening of the performance, the house
at Albert Gate is filled by a brilliant
assemblage of men and women ; and amidst
the inspiriting strains of a brass band, the
lively hum of conversation, the sparkle of
jewels and the flash of eyes, few people have
leisure to observe the quiet girl dressed in
deep mourning who moves so unobtrusively
amongst the crowd, only anxious to escape
observation and to afford assistance wherever
it may be required. She takes no prominent
part in the display that follows, and yet it is
through her means alone that it proves to bea
complete success. She it is who arranges

a fold here or alters the position of a figure
there, who gives the signal for the curtain
to rise, and keeps her watchful eyes fixed
upon the silent actors the whole time it is
raised, that, at the first symptom of movement
on their part, she may order it to be
lowered again before they lose their self-command.
The spectators exclaim, * Beautiful
r ' Lifelike !' * How admirably arranged !'
and loudly applaud the lay figures who present
the living pictures ; but nobody dreams
that the brain that has conceived them, designed
them, and brought them to perfection,
belongs to the pale, handsome girl who keeps
in the background and shares in none of the
applause. Nobody but Mr. Henderson, that
is to say, whose sharp, critical eyes watch all
Botha's movements with the greatest interest.
He is a stout, thickset man of middle
age. His small features, which may once
have been handsome, are sunk between two
full cheeks, ruddy and polished as autumn
apples ; his grey hair is brushed all sorts of

ways, and his keen blue eyes seem to look
straight through you. By nature Mr.
Henderson is kindly and tender-hearted, but
much hard rubbing with the world has given
him an upper crust of cynicism and suspicion
which is all the character he displays to
strangers. He believes, like Carlyle, that
human nature is chiefly composed of fools 
and Mr. Henderson hates fools.

Because genius is so rare, he believes he
can detect it at a glance, and is ready to
worship it when once detected.

As the curtain falls upon the last tableau
and the strains of the band burst forth in a
seductive waltz, he moves to the side of Mr.
Kemyss.

 Who's that girl in black V he demands, in
his rough, curt way.

 What, the lady with the diamonds ?
That is Mrs. Benson, the wife of the great
shipowner, Joseph Benson of Liverpool.*

No, no. I don't mean her. The girl ina
mourning dress who sticks so close to your
daughter V

Oh, that is Miss Durant, an old schoolfellow
of Mattie's. Pretty little thing, isn't
she ?  but too quiet to suit my taste.'

Don't know, I'm sure ; haven't spoken to
her yet. Looks to me as if there was a great
deal in her.'

Indeed ! Now you mention it, I remember
my daughter telling me she was thought
very clever at the Princess College, for reciting
and acting, and that sort of thing ; but
we couldn't persuade her to take any part in
the performance to-night  she has so recently
lost her mother  but she has been very active
behind the scenes.'

Humph ! Just so I' says Mr. Henderson ;'
and the upshot of the conversation is that he
goes in search of Mattie, and a few minutes
afterwards Beth a is thrown into a fever of
excitement by being asked to recite something
for the benefit of the company. She is
about strenuously to decline, but Mattie's
persuasions overcome her scruples.

Do ! do ! darling Beta ! Papa wishes

it, and it will vex him so if you refuse, and
you can recite so beautifully, and they are all
dying to hear you, and you won't say no to
your own Mattie, will you, dear V

Between the entreaty and persuasion of
her friend, and the fear of offending her host,
or appearing ungrateful for his hospitality,
JBetha suffers herself to be dragged into the
midst of the company and announced as
about to give a recitation for their benefit.
She stands there for a moment, silent and
abashed, almost feeling as if no lines she has
ever learned will come to her assistance ; but
raising her eyes to the assembly, she encounters
the keen, critical glance of Mr.
Henderson fixed upon her, and the sight
seems to brace her nerves like steel. She
throws her head back proudly, her nostrils
dilate, her eyes glow, and she commences
those lines from the ' Idylls of the King '
which describe the last meeting between
Arthur and Guinevere.

The guests compose their persons and their

features decorously to listen. They are prepared
to hear a schoolgirl's recitation of some
hackneyed speech from Shakespeare, or verses
of Cowper. Botha's opening description of
the King's arrival rivets their attention ; but
when her rich voice sinks to a monotone, and
she begins the lines :

" Lies thou so low ! the child of one I honoured
Happy, dead, before thy shame !' "

the listless men and the flirting women become
interested and serious, and more than one,
before the exquisite speech is concluded, hasa
choking sensation in her throat, or smuggles
her pocket-handkerchief furtively to her eyes.
Beta neither sees nor hears the effect she is
producing. She is far away ; she has left the
drawing-room at Albert Gate and gone back
into the Past she tells of She mourns with
Arthur  the sob that nearly chokes his
utterance has its ghostly copy in her own 
she looks through her unshed tears upon the
golden tresses with which Guinevere  made

her face a darkness from the King and she
rides away with him in the mist, bereft and
alone ! As she comes back to herself and
receives the thanks of her audience, and
overhears their compliments upon her talent,
the bright lights dazzle her, she feels sick
and giddy  the grief of Arthur appears to
have renewed her own trouble, and she is
only anxious to get away to her room and be
quiet. It comes so natural to her to recite,
and to feel what she is reciting, she cannot
see anything wonderful in it ; these loud
plaudits and congratulations bewilder and
annoy her. Mattie does not oppose the fact
of her friend's retirement, because they are
going to dance, and she knows she would
rather not be present at that festivity. So
Beta is permitted to slip quietly away 
unnoticed, as she believes, by anybody, and
therefore she is the more surprised on reaching
the landing to find that she is followed
by the strange-looking gentleman whose
gaze she has encountered more than once

during the evening fixed earnestly upon her
face.

What is your name V he demands
abruptly, with his tablets in his hand.

Beta is considerably astonished at being
asked such a question by a stranger, but
as a friend of the Kemyss's she feels herself
bound to be polite to him.

Elizabeth Durant,' she answers.

Ha ! who taught you to recite V

Mr. Livingstone, of Princess College.'

Humph ! you do him credit. Goodnight
'/ and Mr. Henderson turns away with
an uncouth nod.

She has hardly mounted six stairs, however,
before he is after her again.

Look here ! A re you an orphan V

Beta is about to say ' No when the remembrance
flashes across her mind that no
one could be more orphaned than herself, and
she answers proudly :

 Yes, I am an orphan, and dependent on
my own resources.'

Humph ! very good ; very good indeed,'
replies the incomprehensible stranger, looking
as pleased as if she had said she 'v\'as
heiress to ten thousand a year.

Beta would doubtless speculate very
largely on this extraordinary behaviour on
the part of Mr. Henderson, were it not put
out of her head by finding a letter from Miss
Denny on her dressing-table.

She had written to that lady a few days
before, telling her of the circumstances in
which she was placed, and asking her advice
as to her future movements. And Miss
Denny writes back in the most elegant hand,
on the most elegant paper, softly purring
over the girl's misfortunes, covering up her
aching heart, as it Averse, with a species of
mental cold cream, and inviting her to a conference
at the Princess College on the following
morning, as she thinks it very probable
she may be able to assist her.

I know what that means,' thinks Beta
bitterly to herself, as she throws the letter

down upon the table ; ' twenty pounds a
year, and the drudgery of teaching the
youngest class in the college. Oh, how little
I thought, when I studied so hard to get the
first place there, that it was to end in this !'
and Beta does what she very seldom indulges
herself by doing now : she breaks
down utterly, and cries without restraint.

Yet she is too sensible to miss the opportunity
that fortune may have in store for her,
and the next morning, before Mattie's eyes
are opened, she is seated in the private room
of the Lady Superintendent of Princess
College. But the conversation has not
opened long before Beta finds that she has
been summoned there not to be sympathised
with, but quietly taken to task for her supposed
rebellion against her father.

The reason of my delay in answering
your letter, my dear Elizabeth,' commences
Miss Denny, primly, ' is because I could not
possibly entertain any overtures on your part
with regard to the college, nor give you a

personal recommendation elsewhere, until I
had ascertained what your good papa's views
were upon the subject.'

My father's views !' cries Beta, aghast ;
but I told you plainly in my letter, Miss
Denny, that my father has turned me out of
doors because I refused to abandon my dying
mother. What on earth can have induced
you to appeal to him V

Ah, my dear, that is perhaps a young
person's view of the matter, but we sensible
elders see things in a different light. And
you were always impetuous and somewhat
headstrong, Elizabeth. It was your greatest
fault, you may remember, whilst under my
charge.'

I have not been impetuous in this case,'
replies the girl, hotly. ' I went deliberately
to my father after three months' separation
and asked him to take me home aofain
(though I hated the very idea of going there),
and his answer was that I might beg in the
streets or starve before he would assist me.'

Miss Denny smiles incredulously.

I think, my dear, there must be a little
mistake somewhere, for Major Durant spoke
very differently to me upon the subject. You
were probably too much excited, Elizabeth,
to know what was said or meant. Your
papa seemed the perfect gentleman tome,
and no gentleman could dream of
turning anyone out of doors, far less a
delicately 'nurtured young lady like yourself


Ah ! that is what the ivorld thinks,' exclaims
Beta, bitterly.  Perhaps you imagine,
Miss Denny, that no gentleman could
insult his wife until his very servants cried
shame upon him  that no gentleman could
strike his children to gratify his malicious
spite against their mother  that no gentleman
could tell his daughter to her face that he
hated her because her features did not resemble
his own. And I agree with you 
no gentleman would do this. But my father
has done it, scores and scores of times, and

yet you think there must be  a little mistake
somewhere !" '

And in repeating the words Beta unconsciously
imitates so closely the tone in
which they were uttered that Miss Denny
colours to hear the echo of her own voice.

 Dear, dear !' she is reduced to say contemplatively,
* I really could not have believed
all this unless you had told it me,
Elizabeth, with your own mouth. It is very,
very sad ! Still, I should not have considered
myself justified in proposing your
name as a teacher to the governors of the
college unless I had had your good papa's sanction
to the proceeding. But I am happy to
say he gave it without hesitation, and seemed
to me only anxious to secure your welfare in
every possible way !'

I refuse to come here on his sanction,'
says the girl, proudly. ' If you cannot give
me employment on my own merits. Miss
Denny, I will seek work elsewhere !'

Now, my dear Elizabeth, pray do not be

VOL. I. 11

so impetuous. Haste is always inelegant,
and no lady who values the good opinion of
society will ever permit herself to be betrayed
into doing or saying anything that is not
elegant. And this should be especially
borne in mind by those who aspire to teach
the young

I shall never be '' elegant," Miss Denny,
in your sense of the word says Beta,
curtly. ' Perhaps, after all, I was foolish to
apply to you. I am fitter to serve in a shop
or behind a bar than grind grammar and
elegance into children !'

The lady superintendent closes her eyes
with horror.

My dear, dear Miss Durant ! Pray
think what you are saying, and never suggest
anything so terrible in my hearing again.
Behind a har ! If one of the governors were
to hear that you even knew of such a calling
I believe it would prevent your nomination.
However, I am glad to be able to tell you
that Major Durant having given his consent

to the proceeding, the governors offer you a
salary of fifteen pounds a year, as English
teacher, which is considered a very Liberal
remuneration for the services of so young an
assistant.'

Beta is just about to declare that she will
not take the engagement, since they have
thought fit to apply for her father's authority,
but her attention is diverted from that
circumstance by the clause that follows it.

Fifteen pounds a year T she exclaims.
 What am I to dress on, then V

Miss Denny looks mildly reproachful.

The three youngest teachers in the
college receive the same salary. Miss
Durant,' she says, ' and I have heard no
complaints hitherto. I suppose you will
dress as those ladies do; and before midsummer
arrives, let us hope that this unhappy
difference with your papa will have
terminated, and that he will be enabled to
receive a good and dutiful daughter home
again for the vacation !'

112

That he will never do I' replies Beta,
determinately.  Please understand it, once
for all, Miss Denny ! My father and I are
separated for ever.'

It is very, very sad !' reiterates Miss
Denny, shaking her head. ' But what
answer am I to convey to the colleges authorities,
Elizabeth V

Beta cannot make up her mind all at
once. Fifteen pounds a year for nine months*
ceaseless drudgery I She would rather, as
far as her own feelings are concerned, be a
charwoman on a couple of shillings a day !

Give me a week to decide,' she answers ;
I am not prepared with an immediate
reply. Tell the governors that I will write
to them in a week.'

Miss Denny looks as if she thought Beta
very ungrateful, and was sorry she had taken
so much trouble on her account. She hardly
embraces her at parting, but presents her
cheek to be pecked at, and remarks coldly,
that she trusts Miss Durant will keep to her

word, as the college authorities are not accustomed
to be trifled with.

Beta returns to Albert Gate, slowly and
sadly, speculating on the probability of her
hearing of any other suitable work before
the week is ended. How little she thinks
that by that time the prospects of her
whole future will be entirely changed.

She enters the house languidly, but
brightens up on being told that Mr. Henderson
is waiting to see her in the drawing-room.
Mr. Henderson, the mysterious
stranger who met and accosted her upon the
stairs last night. What on earth can he have to
say to her ? Curiosity wakes excitement in her
breast, and Beta runs upstairs, with a face
that a sudden glow has rendered beautiful.

YOU WILL succeed

Mr. Henderson is standing in the orthodox
British fashion, with his back to the fire,
warming his coat-tails, and with a curious
look of expectancy on his hard shrewd face.
As Beta hastily opens the door, and comes
towards him, her cheeks glowing with
exercise and excitement, she looks so much
handsomer than she did the evening before,
that the old man regards her with the
greatest satisfaction.

What's your age T he says, continuing his
catechism as she advances to shake hands
with him. Beta cannot help laughing.
She has already guessed that her friend is an

oddity and a genius, and she does not feel
inclined to be offended at his curtness as she
would at that of a younger man.

Seventeen next month, Mr. Henderson.'

I thought that was about it ! And your
height V

Five foot five.'

Ah ! and you'll grow another inch yet  a
very good height too. Well, are you surprised
to see me here to-day T

 1 don't know. I don't think I should
be quite surprised at anything you did.'

That's your opinion, is it ? Well, I came to
see you, and you only ; so, as the servant told
me Miss Kemyss was abed, and you walking,
I thought I'd wait till you returned. What
mischief have you been up to, eh ? Reciting
in the park V

Oh dear no 1' replies Beta ; * nothing
half so agreeable ! I've been over to the
Princess College, by appointment, to receive
the magnificent offer of fifteen pounds a year
as a teacher. Isn't it noble ? My aunt's

housemaid used to have sixteen, and her beer-money
into the bargain. I think I shall
apply for her situation. It's the better of
the two concludes Beta, sarcastically.

And so you're really compelled to consider
the advantage of receiving fifteen
pounds a year, eh ?'

Yes ! I told you yesterday that I am
obliged to work for a living.'

If I'm not much mistaken, I can put you
in the way of work that will bring you in
fifteen pounds a week instead,' says Mr.
Henderson.

Hoi f cries Beta, staring at him.

 We'll come to that by-and-by. I'll tell
you first what brought me here this morning.
I've got the management of some private
theatricals to come off" at the end of this
week, in aid of some charity or other. Well,
my principal lady's fallen sick, or got an
attack of stage-fright, one of the two ; and
now, what do you say to taking her place
for me ?'

I  to act on the stage, do you mean ?
But how do you know I can act, Mr. Henderson
V says Beta.

How do I know you're a girl,' returns
the visitor. 'Because I've got two eyes
in my head, that's why ! I heard you recite
those lines of Tennyson's last night, and saw
you act them too ! That's enough for me !
And now, will you take the part V

Oh, thank you, Mr. Henderson ! It is
very kind of you to think of me ; and I love
acting so, I should enjoy it above all things!'
exclaims Beta, her face beaming at the
mere idea ; ' only I am afraid I must say
*' No /" I am in such deep mourning, you
see; and it would be contrary to all etiquette
for me to appear in so public an entertainment
as theatricals.'

Humph ! But you would go and teach
brats, wouldn't you, in a public school ?'

Yes ; but that I should consider my duty.
It would be for money, too !'

And so will this be for money. Look

here, child ; you ve got the making of an
actress in you, and if you follow my advice,
you'll let me put you in the way of going on
the stage !'

Goings on the stage /' cries Beta, in a
tone very much like horror.

The notion has never suggested itself to
her in her life before. She has loved to see
plays and to study them ; has delighted in
her elocution lessons, and often won great
kudos for her performances in amateur
theatricals : but that she, Elizabeth Durant,
should ever throw aside all the prejudices
of caste, and step upon the stage to sell her
talent for the benefit of the public, has never
entered her imagination. She knows that
many ladies are artists, and authors, and
poets : and that others sell their fancy-work,
and their voices, and their time : and she has
envied such women for their genius, and
admired their perseverance and ingenuity.

But to be an actress ! To stand before
the footlights and deliver speeches and

imitate the gestures of humanity for common
men and women to laugh at or applaud, to
contemplate such a profession with pride, or
even with equanimity, Beta Durant has not
yet been long enough disentangled from the
conventional trammels that overhang the
lying face of modern society.

Oh no !' she says, shrinking a little from
him, * I could not ! You forget that I am a
lady !'

Mr. Henderson shrugs his shoulders and
gives a supercilious laugh.

And you consider ils more  ladylike," I
suppose, to teach brats their spelling? Why,
the one Avork is inspiration, and the other
drudgery I However, take your choice, my
dear ; but I think I could have made something
of you, all the same. And so you
won't help me out of my difficulty V

Oh, I should like to do that, Mr. Henderson,
if you think I could, and that people
would not consider it indecorous of me.'

No one shall have the power to do so.

The other girl's name will remain in the bills,
and you will only be taken for her. You'll make
a first-rate Pauline  height, features, and everything
 and I'll '' coach " you up in the part.'

Is the play '' The Lady of Lyons ' ? I
know every word of it !' exclaims Beta.

All the better. When can you come to
a rehearsal ?  to-night V

Oh, Mr. Henderson, it is very sudden !
What wil Mattie say V

I thought you told me you were your
own mistress 1'

So I am ! But I refused to play in her
tableaux last night !'

Mr. Henderson bursts into a hoarse laugh.

And you think she may resent the omission
1 First time I ever heard of one pretty
girl being offended at the absence of another!
No, no, my dear ! Mattie Kemyss is a great
deal too handsome not to forgive you for
having refused to be a foil to her ! So, will
you come V

If mr. Kemyss approves of it !'

Kemyss has already given his consent, so
that's settled. Now mind, half-past seven
this evening, sharp, at St. Denis's Hall ;
and I'll be waiting for you at the box-office.
Be punctual ! Nothing is such bad form in
our profession as coming to rehearsal imperfect,
or behind your time !'

Our profession, Mr. Henderson ! Are
you then an actor V

I luciSj my dear ! Now I am stage-manager
of the Marlborough Theatre.
Good-morning. I shall expect you sharp at
seven thirty I'

And in another minute Mr. Henderson
has quitted the room, and Beta is left alone
to try and realise the stupendous fact that
she has consented to play Pauline in ' The
Lady of Lyons,' at St. Denis's Hall, no later
than the end of the week.

The events that follow her decision seem
to justify Mr. Henderson's expectations.
After four or five rehearsals, the important
evening having arrived, Beta appears as

the Lady of Lyons at St. Denis's Hall,
looking very distinguished in the rich robes
which Miss Kemyss insists upon lending her,
and her personal attractions greatly enhanced
by the touch of rouge (which the exigencies
of the profession demand) upon her cheeks.
Her performance is naturally marked by
much crudeness and a touch of timidity, but
her Claude is a practised amateur, and
does nothing to hinder her efforts. Anyway,
she displays sufficient talent to call forth the
warmest admiration of her audience, and
decidedly carries off the honours of the
evening.

At the conclusion of the piece she is called
before the curtain and vociferously applauded,
and the papers that notice the performance
on the following day are unanimous in commending
her talent, and suggesting that if
she chooses to adopt the stage as a profession
there is a career before her. Beta hears,
and sees, and reads it all, and feels fairly
intoxicated with her success. The love of

histrionic display is inherent in her : it has
lain dormant, hitherto, for want of encouragement
; but it is her second nature, and her
present indulgence proves to be like the first
drop of blood to the tiger.

Mr. Henderson's words and suggestions
have recurred to her again and again during
the rehearsals of the week. Indeed, the old
gentleman has taken good care that she shall
not forget them. And each time she thinks
of the idea, it seems less and less offensive to
her.

After all, there are good and well-born
and virtuous women on the stage. Why
should she not join their ranks, and use the
talents God has given her to the best advantage
?

Mr. Henderson will not allow the favourable
impression he has made to be effaced by
time. The  Lady of Lyons ' is played on the
Saturday, and on the Monday he is at Albert
Gate by eleven o'clock, just as Beta is considering,
with horror, that she must refuse or

accept Miss Denny's proposal by that night's
post.

*You did very well, for a beginner,' says
Mr. Henderson, alluding to the Saturday's
performance ; ' very well indeed, but no
better than I expected of you. However,
that was all play, and now we come to business.
When are you going to take up this
teaching that you talk ofV

< I  I  cannot tell,' stammers Beta. ' I
must decide before tomorrow morning ; but
I hate the idea of being a governess so much
that I hardly know what I shall say !'

Naturally ! It is throwing your talent
into the gutter,' replies Mr. Henderson.
And I could make a Mrs. Siddons of you
in a few years. Think of that ! A tip-top
place in the profession ! All the world at
your feet, and fifty, perhaps a hundred,
pounds a week, to lay by against the future.
Isn't that better than teaching a lot of brats
for fifteen pounds a year V

Oh, Mr. Henderson, of course it would be ;

'and, since my attempt last week, I have been
thinking so much of what you told me.
Only, I don't think you quite understand my
position. I have no money, you know 
none whatever ; so, supposing I adopted the
stage as a profession, how am I to live until
I have secured a position by which I can
maintain myself V

Mr. Henderson looks at her admiringly.

What a shrewd child it is ! Wh}, you've
got the brains of seven-and-twenty, instead
of seventeen. Now, look here ! Can you
speak the truth V

Mr. Henderson ! what a question ! Do
sou suppose I ever speak anything else V

Most of your sex do, my dear ; so I
thought you might be no exception to the
rule. Did I understand you, then, to say
that you are perfectly independent V

I am independent. My mother is dead,
and my father has repudiated me. I have
no claim upon anybody.'

And you would like to be an actress V

VOL. I. 12

I am sure I should like it !' replies Beta,
discreetly.

'Very well. Then here's my proposition.
I am a dramatic teacher, and I should like to
bring you out as my pupil. I can't afford to
keep you and teach you for nothing, because
I'm not a rich man, and my time's my money ;
but I've got a wife at home who'll be very
pleased to take you in and look after you.
And if you'll bind yourself down to me for an
apprenticeship of three years, I'll provide for
you during that time, give you lessons, and
bring you out on the stage, taking, of course,
your earnings as my pay ; and, after that
time has expired, you'll be your own mistress
and free to make your fortune. Is that a

fair offer, or is it not V

I don't know anything about the stage,'

says Beta ; ' but it seems fair to me. Only,

can I bind myself legally to you before I am

of acre V

'Don't know; I'll find out. But, anyway,

I will take your written agreement.'

Take care, Mr. Henderson. You may be
trusting me too far says Beta, smiling.

I don't think I can. You're a true girl,
if ever I saw one. But I warn you it will be
uphill work  at least at first.'

 I love work, and I am not afraid of it,' replies
Beta. ' Only, if I should not succeed !'

You loll succeed. You may make up
your mind to it. Do you suppose I should
take all this trouble for love of you ? No,
no, my dear ; you're a very nice girl, and a
very pretty girl, but that sort of game
wouldn't pay Mark Henderson. And now,
if you've quite decided the matter, you'd
better come round to my. place this afternoon
 there's the address  and see Mrs.
Henderson, and arrange when you are to
take up your abode with us.'

'What will Mattie say?' exclaims Beta.

Possibly a good deal. Fools mostly do !
But if you're the girl I take you for, you'll
not be turned from your purpose by the
opinions of anybody.'

122

Miss Kerayss does say a good deal, but it
is not in the direction that Beta expected.
She rather envies her friend going on the
stage ; she thinks it will be great fun, and
wishes her papa were a poor man, that she
might have an excuse for joining her. But
she laments terribly over Botha's departure
from Albert Gate. She almost thought she
had secured her companionship for ever, and
wishes a thousand times that that old wretch
Henderson had never poked his stupid old
head into their house on the fatal evening of
the tableaux vivants.

But I shall see you, darling Beta, shan't
I  very, reri/ often ; and you will always
call me your bosom friend and love me as
you do now V

I shall always love you, dear Mattie ; I
can safely promise that, for no one could help
doing so who knew how sweet and good you
are. But as for seeing you, that must be as
your father and Mr. Levison wish. I am
perfectly aware that some people will consider

I have lost my social position in becoming an
actress, and I shall respect their prejudices,
whether I share them or not.'

Beta, how can you say such a thing of
papa, who is only too delighted if he can
persuade actors and actresses to come to his
house ; and as for Mr. Levison, I shall not
choose my friends to please him, you may be
well assured. I shall associate with whom I
will, and, if he doesn't like it, he may do the
other thing.'

Well, dear Mattie, let us hope for the
best !' replies Beta, with a sigh.

The path she has chosen does not appear
all couleur che rose to her at that moment, poor
child, whatever may lie in the future for her.
She shrinks from the idea that her friends
may think she has degraded herself, although
her pride forbids her consulting any one ot
them in the matter.

Aunt Janie is the only relative I possess
to whom I owe anything,' she ponders ; ' and
even she said she should be thankful to be

quit of the care of me. Well, they are quit
now, once for all. I shall never see any of
them again, and the sooner they forget my
existence the better !*

A few natural tears fall, as she remembers
that little Hyacinth may grow up without
even a sight of her face ; will forget perhaps
that she ever had a sister Beta, or that the
same mother loved and cared for them both.
And mingled with that thought comes
another, though a much less painful one  a
passing wonder whether Mr. Free, one of the
few people who have spoken kindly to her of
late, will be sorry to lose sight of her, or
consider her beneath his notice if they meet.
Yet, through it all, Beta feels in her
inmost heart that she has chosen the lot for
which she was intended, and that no private
life, however happy, could raise in her
breast the pleasurable emotions of hope and
ambition that stir it every time she remembers
that she is about to adopt the stage as a
profession.

don't tell MR. Free.'

OsTuY one question puzzles her : shall she, or
shall she not, inform her aunt Janie and
Miss Denny of the occupation she has chosen
to pursue ? The idea of doing so is most
distasteful to her ; but Beta is both frank
and brave, and argues with herself, that if
she is not ashamed of becoming an actress,
she should not be ashamed of owning it.
Besides, sooner or later, aU the world will
hear of it, and she prefers to encounter any
reproaches for her obstinacy, rather than to
live in dread of being found out, and justly
despised for her want of courage and deceit.
So she sets off at once to Earl's Court,

which she reaches in the dusk of the April
evening. Mrs. Chapman and her daughter,
having just come in from a somewhat chilly
walk, are lounging over the fire and warming
their feet before going upstairs to take their
things off, when Beta is announced.

Aunt Janie receives the girl rather coolly.
She was very unwilling to maintain her
longer herself, but it is a rock of offence in
her eyes that anybody else should take the
liberty of doing so.

Well, Beta ! not tired of your fine
friends yet V she says sarcastically, as her
niece embraces her.

No, Aunt Janie, nor ever could be !
Nothing can exceed the kindness that has
been shown me at Albert Gate. I believe
Mr. Kemyss would let me live there for ever,
had I a mind to do so.'

I should hardly think your pride would
permit you to do that. You used to talk a
great deal of your pride, Beta; but a
visit prolonged beyond the ordinary limits

becomes something very much like Having on
charity

That is exactly my opinion, Aunt Janie ;
and so you will be glad to hear that I am
going to leave the Kemysses in a few days.
I have got work to do, and I have pledged
myself to do it for the next three years.'

Mrs. Chapman's listless face brightens.
Here is really a bit of good news ! Beta
provided for, for the next three years, means
at least Aunt Janie's immunity from marrying
or maintaining her till the end of that
period. For Mrs. Chapman has been much
haunted the last few weeks by a nightmare
vision of her niece returning, bag and baggage,
on her hands.

Have you really ? Well, it will be the
best thing for you. And what is the work,
Beta ? A companionship in India ? I can't
think of any other situation where they
would tie you down to remain for three
years.'

No ! it isn't India, nor anything half so

disagreeable as a companionship. I couldn't
undertake that sort of work, Aunt Janie ; it
would drive me mad. I hope you won't be
vexed at what I have to tell you, but I have
made up my mind, and nothing will turn me
from it  I am going on the stage !'

What !' scream both Mrs. Chapman and
her daughter in one breath, and in the
biggest of capital letters.

I intend to be an actress. I find I can
apprentice myself to a good master, who
will provide my maintenance, and teach me
my profession, until I can make an income
for myself; which in a few years I hope to be
able to do. And I like the stage ; and they
say I have talent, and am bound to succeed :
therefore I have decided to maintain myself
by that means, and no other.'

The girl brings out these words doggedly,
anticipating the storm of opposition they will
raise. By the time she has finished them,
Mrs. Chapman has recovered her breath.

An actress /' she ejaculates ; ' do you

know what you are talking about ? With
what sort of people can the Kemysses have
allowed you to associate, to get such fearful
ideas into your head '? Why, actresses are
the very scum of the earth  no respectable
people associate with them ; and you will
be hated and despised by everybody you
have ever known.'

They are not the scum of the earth,' replies
Beta, firmly. ' There are just as good
women as yourself on the stage. Aunt Janie,
and most of them are talented far above the
ordinary run of people !'

Talent ! Rubbish ! As if anybody could
not put on an immodest dress and kick about
her legs on the public stage. Its infamous 
horrible  fearful  I never heard of such a
thing in my life before, and you must be insane
to think of it.'

Let them answer for it, then, who have
cast me forth to earn my own living,' replies
Beta.

Oh ! it's of no use accusing your poor

father of everything. I am sure he is the
last person in the world to countenance such
a disgraceful proceeding. And what's more,
he shall stop it. For the credit of the family
you must be prevented from committing such
a moral suicide and I shall go at once and
tell Major Durant about it !' exclaims Mrs.
Chapman, rising and re-assuming her gloves
and furs.

You may talk till you are hoarse, Aunt
Janie,' replies her niece, as she also quits her
chair ; * but you will not alter my determination.
And my father has no power over me,
thank Heaven ! His day is over, and I am
of an age to choose my own path in life.'

'Do you suppose, then, you are to be
allowed to disgrace us all with impunity ?
What shall we be able to say when friends
accuse us of being connected with an
actress ? And as to your cousin Blanche,
you will never be allowed to speak to her
again ! I would not permit my girl to be
contaminated by such association '

Perhaps I may learn to live even without
that says Beta,  and at all events, Aunt
Janie, I could not live on it, without anymore
substantial nourishment. You seem to
forget that I have to work for my hreadj and
must do it in the best way I can.'

That is a mere excuse I I am sure
Major Durant would allow you a sum for
maintenance  indeed, he told me he had
offered to do so '

And I would not accept it  nor ever
will!' interrupts Beta. ' Let Major Durant
keep his money for those who want it. I
can maintain myself, and I will !'

Mrs. Chapman has no resource but to become
pious.

Oh, my poor, 200)' Mary 1' she exclaims,
with uplifted hands and eyes; 'it is well
indeed that you were mercifully taken away
from the evil to come.'

Don't speak of my mother before me !'
cries Beta, passionately ; ' nor appeal to
her to judge her child in the fashion that

you do. Mother would have understood and
sympathised with every feeling of independence
I possess. She would not have left
me to choose my own future without advice
or guidance, and then have blamed me for
doing the best I can for myself There was
no real likeness between my mother and you.
Aunt Janie ; and if she sees us now, I know
that she is on my side, and not on yours.'

Oh, this is blasphemy !' exclaims Mrs.
Chapman, preparing for flight ; ' but I shall
go at once to your paDa, and if he can be of
any use in preventing you from carrying out
your mad design, he will'

Good-bye, Blanche !' says Beta, holding
out her hand to her cousin, as the door closes
upon Mrs. Chapman.

No, thank you, Elizabeth,' returns that
young lady. * If (as you say) you are resolved
to disgrace us all, mamma will certainly
not permit any acquaintanceship between
us, and so the sooner it is dropped, I
think, the better !'

I quite agree with you says Beta,
haughtily ;  and I lowered myself by offering
my hand to a woman who can forget she
holds the position of a lady !'

And so the two cousins separate with
angry feelings on either side. Meanwhile,
Mrs. Chapman, having secured a cab, arrives
at Northallerton Crescent, and invades the
sanctity of Major Durant's home without
ceremony. The major is annoyed at the
intrusion, for, in the first place, he dislikes
Mrs. Chapman for having befriended his
wife and daughter ; and in the second, he is
just about to set off to dine with the
fascinating Mrs. Wallerton, and does not
anticipate the prospect of delay. But his
sister-in-law's business is soon disposed of.

Major Durant, I have just received the
most terrible piece of news. Elizabeth came
to my house to announce that she has decided
to go on the public stage for a livelihood
!'

The major elevates his eyebrows.

Indeed /'

How can you receive it in such a fashion !
Are you not astonished  disgusted  angry ?
Fancy what a disgrace for the family ! What
will the world think of us 1 Major Durant,
you must prevent it at all hazards.'

Will you tell me how V

Go to the girl  seek her out  place before
her the enormity of the step she contemplates
taking in its proper light  say
you won't allow it  use your authority and
influence with her, Major Durant  for
Heaven's sake !'

 And of what avail will my authority be ?
Elizabeth is beyond it, and quite aware of
the fact.'

sand do you mean to say that you will
permit this outrage on society to be committed
without an effort to prevent it '? You
ought to have the girl home. This is her
proper place, and you should insist upon her
returning to it !'

 I have already told you, Mrs. Chapman,

that I have no longer any right to insist.
My daughter left my house and refused to
be supported by me. I have nothing further,
therefore, to do with her. She has severed
the bond between us, and it must remain
sol'

And you will suffer her to go on the
stage, then, to let all the world know that
your daughter is a public actress V

The major winces slightly, but does not
give in.

She must go her own course, Mrs. Chapman
! It is nothing to me what she may do.
And as to ever having her home again, that
is entirely out of the question. My relations
with Mrs. Wallerton are likely, before long,
to assume a closer character, and Elizabeth
has insulted that lady too grossly to allow
of their ever living under the same roof.'

Well, I call it disgraceful that you should
allow your own child to go to rack and ruin
in this heartless manner !' replies Aunt Janie
with breathless indignation.

VOL. I. 13

 Had you not encouraged my daughter in
her first act of rebellion against me, Mrs.
Chapman, perhaps this difficulty would not
have arisen now. However, I have no more
time at present to discuss the matter, and I
hope you will do me the great favour of not
referring to it in my presence again. My
daughter Elizabeth is at all times a most
unpleasant subject to me.'

He has no more feeling' than a logs,' says
Mrs. Chapman to Blanche, an hour later
when detailing the circumstances of her
visit to Northallerton Crescent, ' and I really
begin to think that Beta takes after him
instead of your poor dear Aunt Mary, for
nothing could have been more heartless and
ungrateful than her behaviour to me. And
after my keeping her here for more than
three months, fisrhtino all her battles, and
incurring so much expense on her account 
to think of her oroino on the state as a common
actress ! It is too  too much ! I feel
as if I should never oft over it.'

Well ! the best thing we can do, in my
opinion, mamma, is to ignore the whole business.
Don't go telling everybody about it.
Hardly any of our friends know Beth., and if
they ask where she has gone, we can say
abroad, or as a governess in the country, and
drop the subject.'

Yes ; that's an excellent idea, Blanche,
and will at least save us the pain of confessing
the dreadful disgrace she is to us. And
above all things, my dear, don't tell Mr.
Free. He seemed very low and out of
spirits the last time he called here, as if he
were disappointed at not seeing Beta. I
sincerely trust she has not gained any hold
over the poor young fellow ; but a girl who
can propose to be an actress must be bold
enough for anything.'

Oh, as to Bobby Free,' replies Blanche,
tossing her head, ' I don't suppose he is likely
to care much about a pale dab of a girl like
Beta ; but, nevertheless, I shall certainly
not tell him where she has sone. because I

132

know that actresses, and those sort of people,
don't care what they do ; and perhaps she
might make the poor boy marry her, or
something dreadful of that sort, whether he
wished it or no.'

Yes ; it will certainly be wiser, for Mr.
Free's sake, as well as our own, that you
should mention nothing before him of your
unfortunate cousin's calling,' says Mrs. Chapman,
discreetly ; and so, at last, they drop
the subject.

Her interview with her blood relations
does not leave Beta the better disposed to
repeat the scene with the Lady Superintendent
of Princess College, whose reproaches and
cries of horror will be the harder to bear,
because she has the less right to bestow
them. So, by that evening's post she sends
Miss Denny a letter instead, detailing the
circumstances which have decided her to
refuse the position of English teacher to
the junior classes at fifteen pounds a year.
Beta uses all her powers of composition

to make the refusal a grateful one, and to
disarm the probable prejudices of her late
governess against the calling she proposes to
adopt. The answer comes quicker than shu
anticipated.

On the afternoon of Tuesday, a perfumed,
satin-laid envelope, addressed in the elegant
telegraphy of the lady superintendent, is put
into her hand. Beta opens it eagerly. Will
Miss Denny be sympathetic, or tearfully reproachful
?

The folded sheet of paper inside falls out
upon her lap. It is her own epistle returned
to her, without comment or excuse.

YOU HAVE DISGRACED YOURSELF.

Mr. and Mrs. Henderson are a strangely
assorted couple, living together in a noisy
street in the west central district of London,
as opposite as possible in their pursuits,
inclinations, and habits, and yet have passed
some forty years of wedded life with scarcely
a differing word. Mr. Henderson spends
most of his time out of doors or shut up in
his class-room. Mrs. Henderson hardly ever
leaves the house, and only knows the pupils
by sight. His life is passed amidst the active
turmoil of stage-management, the glare of
the theatre, and a medley of strange faces ;
hers within the four walls of their private

house, minding her domestic affairs and looking
after the cooking of her husband's dinner.
Mrs. Henderson never sees the inside of a
theatre ; the most successful piece that was
ever produced, or the greatest genius that
ever appeared, would not tempt her from her
fireside. ' Mr. Henderson does quite enough
of that sort of thing for both of us,' she is
wont to say. She is an old-fashioned homely
body, not unlady-like, though rather unpolished,
and the reception she gives to Beta
makes the girl feel at her ease at once.

It will be quite a pleasure to me to have you
in the house, my dear ; though how you can
choose that nasty stage for a profession, I
cannot think. I'd rather do plain needlework
myself, than live in that heat and noise and
glare. However, there's no accounting for
tastes, as I tell Mr. Henderson, for I don't
believe he could exist without them. If you
were to set him down in the country, with
roses and lilacs to smell, and the fresh air to
blow in his face, I think he'd die. But

we've never had chick nor child of our own,
you see, my dear, and so the theatre's a sort
of a child to him ; but it'll almost seem to me
now as if I'd got a daughter in the house.
And you'll take Trim out for a walk for me
sometimes, I know ; for I don't like to trust
him to the servant, she's so dreadfully careless
: and if I were to lose Trim, why, I
should just go wild.'

Trim is a fat antiquated English terrier
with whom Beta has already made acquaintance,
and who appears to be as much of a
stay-at-home as his mistress.

Come now, old woman,' interposes Mr.
Henderson, curtly ; ' none of your nonsense !
Miss Durant has come here to work and not
to play, and she'll have other fish to fry
than to turn whipper-in to that fat old
mongrel of yours.'

Mr. Henderson speaks as sharply to his
wife as he does to other people, but Mrs.
Henderson does not appear to mind it. She

is used to his odd ways, and knows how kind
a heart Hes beneath his rough exterior.

Now, you know, we've got no time to
lose, and we must set to work at once,' he
says to Beta, the very first morning after
she has taken up her residence with them.
*No more Pauses nor JuHets nor
Lady Macbeth for you, my dear. You
must just put all such rubbish out of your
head, and attend to what I say to you.
You've talent, but you've everything to learn,
and we must begin at the beginning and work
our way up. For a month or six weeks I
shall give you daily lessons, and expect you
to practise hard by yourself in the interim.
At the end of that time (if you do your
duty), I may allow you to stand on the stage
for a few minutes occasionally in a crowd,
just to accustom you to the lights, but that's
all ; and you won't get that if you don't
please me ! Do you understand V

Beta is rather taken aback at first at the
idea of so slow a progress, but she is a

sensible girl, and resolves that it shall only
incite her on to greater exertions. So she
brings all her faculties to bear upon her
master's instructions, and employs her spare
time in exercising herself in gesture, and
emphasis, and tone, until her brain becomes
filled with one prevailing thought, and she
cannot lie down to rest at night without
dreaming of colloquial, rhetorical, and epic
gestures ; of rising, falling, and monotone
inflexions : and natural, falsetto, and orotund
voices.

Mr. Henderson is delighted with her progress,
and, even before the month has expired,
she is allowed the supreme privilege of accompanying
him to the Marlborough Theatre
every night, and standing on the stage as one
of a crowd of evening visitors, in the last
act of a new comedy. But before that
moment arrives, there is a discussion as to
what name she shall assume for her professional
career. Mr. Henderson is very
contemptuous on the subject of changing her

name, for he considers the histrionic so grand
an art that no name can be too good for its
professors. And so might Beta think,
except for her family. They have not been
very considerate of her feelings, but she has
no wish to outrage theirs, more than is absolutely
necessary. Therefore it is decided
that she shall adopt her second name of
Selwyn (which was also her mother s maiden
name), and as Elizabeth Selwyn she is introduced
behind the scenes of the Marlborough
Theatre. She has to change her dress on
arriving there, and for that purpose is conducted
to the dressing-room of the second
ladies. Beta stares aghast at the apartment
she is directed to enter. She knew that
everything behind the scenes of a theatre is
very different from what it is in front, but she
was not quite prepared for the squalid and
dirty appearance of the second ladies' .
White-washed walls ; an uncarpeted
floor, black with the marks of boots
that have tramped through the mud to the

theatre ; half-a-dozen gas-Hghts flaring and
unprotected ; three half-crown mirrors (one
without a frame), set up upon a deal shelf
against the wall, which also bears a couple of
cracked and filthy basins and a jug without a
handle, half filled with cold water  such is
its aspect. Beta has never been in so rough
and dirty-looking a place before, and she
stands upon the threshold, with her bundle
in her hand, gazing timidly at four or five
girls in various stages of undress, who are
preparing themselves to obey the summons
of the call-boy.

Hullo ! who's that ?' cries one of them
sharply, as the opening of the door attracts
her attention. ' Come in, do I and don't stand
there, letting that abominable draught blow
on my shoulders. What's your business V she
continues as Beta closes the door and enters
the room ; ' brought a dress for anybody V

No, this is my own dress. I am one of
Mr. Henderson's pupils. He wishes me to
go on in the last scene this evening.'

Oh, one of old Henderson's pets, are
you? Then I suppose Ave shall all be
expected to do the '' kow-too " business to
you ; but you won't find me do it, for one.
What's your name ?'

Elizabeth Du  I mean Elizabeth Selwyn.'

 Well, mine's Kiley. Come on, Selwyn,
since you are here, and help me to lace up
this bothersome dress. I'm on in the second
act, and you're not wanted till the third, so
you've lots of time.'

I shall be happy to assist you, Miss Riley,
if I can,' replies Beta, courteously. The
girl bursts into a coarse laugh.

'Just listen to her, Tomkins. Miss Riley!
Couldn't you tell she was a greenhorn at a
glance ? How rum these beginners are !
They always kill me with laughing.'

Are you never polite to one another, then,
at this theatre V demands Beta gravely, as
she laces the young lady's dress. Her companions
shock her far more than the appearance
of the dressing-room.

Oh no, my dear I 'isn't that. We're
ready enough to help each other. It's all
** give and take " with us here, as you'll soon
find out; but we've no time to be '' missing"
and " madaminof " one another. But hullo !
there goes the curtain. Give me the rouge,
Wilson, there's a dear ! If I'm late again tonight,
I shall get a confounded wigging from
old Henderson.'

And, as the call-boy's voice is heard outside
the door, Miss Kiley runs off, and is lost
to view.

Beta undoes her parcel, and silently prepares
to change her dress. The other girls
are chattering volubly of their admirers, and
their dresses, and their parts ; whilst her
proud nature is writhing under the familiarity
with which she has been treated, although
she knows that if she is wise she will trample
all such feelings under foot. Yet, at first, to
a delicately nurtured girl, brought up carefully
amidst gentlemen and gentlewomen, it
is hard to bear. Having unpacked her

parcel, she advances to one of the basins to
wash her hands.

You drop that soap  it's mine cries Miss
Tomkins, as Beta touches the piece of yellow
soap that lies beside the basin.

Lor, Tomkins! how sharp you are !' says
another of the girls ; * how was she to know
that, and on the first day, too ? Here, my
dear !' she continues, with good-natured
familiarity to Beta, ' you take my bit.
We're all obliged to provide our own soap
here, but you'll know better another time,
won't you, and bring some for yourself.'

Oh yes ! thank you,' replies Beta, with
something very like a sob in her throat. ' Mr.
Henderson ought to have told me. Of
course, I am quite ignorant of the rules of a
theatre !'

And you've never been on the stage before
to-night V

Not on a public stage !'

And you're a lady, aren't you V

Yes r says Beta, proudly.  I am a

]lady ! but I am apprenticed to Mr. Henderson
for the next three years, and therefore I
am bound to do just what he tells me

Prenticed to Henderson, are you ? Well,
you're safe enough then, my dear ; for he's a
power here, and no mistake, and we shall all
have to mind our P's and Q's with you.'

And Beta finds these words to be correct,
for both Miss Riley and Miss Tomkins
greatly abate the roughness of their speech
when they find out who she is, though to
bear their sarcasm quietly when they address
her as ' my lady !' and ' Henderson's pet,' is
almost more difficult to her. She tells Mr.
Henderson frankly of her disappointment,
and he laughs at it.

*You must begin at the beginning,' he
says ;  and if you don't rough it a bit at first,
how will you appreciate the difference Ashen
you get on in the profession '? I know
Tomkins and Kiley are a little wild  they all
are  but you must forget you're anything
but a woman, and try and sympathise with

them. They've not had your advantages,
remember ; and if they talk roughly, they've
warm hearts at the bottom, like most of the
sex, and will show them fast enough if you'll
let them.'

And Beta, acting on this advice, soon
makes friends with the second ladies, and
finds that a kind word here and a little assistance
there causes them speedily to agree
that ' Selwyn isn't half-bade and wins their
goodwill in return.

It is a gala night with Beta when she hasher
first lines to speak in public. It has
seemed so hard to her, who has whole plays
in German, and French, and English by
heart, to stand at the back of the stage and
say nothing. The first effort Mr. Henderson
allows her to make is a very simple one.
She has only to play the part of a waiting-maid
in some farce, but she does it so brightly
and ingenuously  her eyes say so much when
she is not speaking  and her features and intonation
are so good, that the principal actor

Wot. T. 14

is delighted with her, and her master gives
her warm praise.

Getting on !' he says that night, at supper,
rubbing his hands. ' Getting on ! I shall
live to see the girl play Siddons' parts yet,
old woman ; but she must creep before she
crawls.'

La, Mark ! I wish you wouldn't talk
about creeping and crawling. It always
makes me remember the black-beetles ; and if
Trim touches my foot with so much as the
tip of his tail, under the table, I'm safe to
scream.'

And so Beta works her way steadily
onwards ; learning any number of parts for
future use, and never shirking trouble in
order to perfect, as far as lies in her power,
the instructions she receives from her master.
And Mr. Henderson is faithful to his trust.
He would have proved so, perhaps, under any
circumstances ; but he has his own interests
to work for here, and nothing sharpens a
man's energy so much as having a pecuniary

benefit contingent on his labour. He goes
through all the best-known female parts with
his pupil ; and though he will not permit her
to speak more than a dozen lines upon the
stage, she has the characters of Rosalind,
Beatrice, Juliet, Pauline, Constance, and
half the heroines of old and new comedy and
tragedy, at her fingers' ejids.

Meanwhile, though she is so engrossed by
her work that it leaves her little leisure for
sad thoughts, it must not be supposed that
Beta has entirely forgotten her old friends
in the old world she appears to have left
behind her. Mattie Kemyss  who is to be
transformed into Mattie Levison before many
months are over  she often sees, and of her
sister Hyacinth she is constantly dreaming
vague and painful dreams. The summer is
now at its height, and the London season
nearly finished.

Mrs. Henderson insists upon Beta taking
a walk every day; and accompanied by Trim,
wheezing audibly at the unwonted exertion,

142

she often finds her way up to the Regent's
Park, and loiters about the precincts of
Northallerton Crescent, in hopes of meeting
her little sister and Bentham. But her
efforts seem all in vain. Never once has she
caught a sight of either her father or Hyacinth,
until she begins to think they must
have left the district and gone to live somewhere
else.

One afternoon, however, as she is calling
and whistling to old Trim, who is deaf as
well as wheezy, to come out of the road
before he is run over by the omnibus, her
voice attracts the attention of a smartly-dressed
young lady who is walking some
distance in front of her, accompanied by a
servant, and whose face Beta immediately
recognises as that of her sister. She cannot
doubt her eyes, but she would never have
known the child had she not turned round.

Beta is still clad in the mourning crape,
now somewhat rusty and dusty, which she
put on eight months before, in memory of

her mother : but Hyacinth is dressed in a
smart costume of blue and white, and swears
two blue feathers in her hat, with a bunch of
pink rosebuds. Her dark hair is plaited ina
long tail behind, tied with blue ribbon, and
she looks as festive and fashionable as it is
possible for so young a lady to appear. Still
it is Hyacinth  her own little sister and her
mother's darling  and Beta springs after
her with a cry of delight.

Cinthy, Cinthy ! didn't you know me ? I
have been walking up and down here for
days in hopes of seeing you. I am so glad
that we have met !'

Hyacinth looks at her sister inquiringly
for a moment, and then draws herself back
primly.

I mustn't speak to you, Elizabeth I I
told you so before ! Papa has particularly
forbidden me to say a word to you !'

The tears start to Beta's bright eyes at
the coolness of her address.

Oh, he could not be so cruel, darling !

You are my own little sister, you know, and
I cannot harm you by a few words *

Who is this young lady, Miss Durant V
demands the maid in charge of the child.

It is my sister, the actress, Mary,' replies
Cinthy in a low voice, but not so low
but that Beta hears the emphasised words ;
 and you know that papa particularly forbid
you to stop if we met her.'

Well, then, miss, you'd better come home
at once, or I shall get in a scrape, maybe,
with Mrs. Durant !'

With ivhom T exclaims Beta, hurriedly.

With mamma,' replies Hyacinth. ' Don't
you know that we have a new mamma  at
least / have, for she wouldn't be your
mamma. She says you have disgraced
yourself, and you dance and sing and get
money, and no one will ever speak to you
again.'

It is untrue  it is untrue,' murmurs poor
Beta ; * and it is wicked and cruel of them
to tell you so, Cinthy. I shall never do anything

to disgrace you, nor our dear mother in
heaven ; and I would never call any other
woman '' mamma," and so it matters nothing
to me whether she wishes to be my mamma
or not

Miss Durant, you'd better come home
says the servant, warningly.

So I will when I've told her something,'
replies Hyacinth. ' But you do dance and
sing, don't you, Beta 1 Mamma  that is
Mrs. Wallerton, you know, only now she's
called Mrs. Durant  isn't that funny? and
we don't live in Northallerton Crescent at
all, but a much bigger house  she won't let
me speak of you. She says that I must
forget my sister, the actress, as soon as ever
I can, or else everybody will despise and
spit on me 1'

Oh, Hyacinth ! this is the hardest part
of it all I' cries Beta, sobbing ; ' and what
can I say to make such a child as you understand
? Only ask Bentham I Dear old
Bent}'- will do me justice, and tell you that

sister Beta will never do anything that is
disgraceful or wrongs.'

*Bentyy can't tell me,' says Cinthy, 'because
she's gone away. She's been gone
ever so long. And Mary's my maid now 
my maid and mamma's  and I go to school
in the mornings, and some day mamma will
take me to a circus, but not to a theatre, for
fear I might see you there

And didn't you uxint to see me, Hyacinth
V says Beta, reproachfully.

Yes, a little ; but mamma says I'm Miss
Durant now, and the only daughter ; if you
came back I shouldn't be ! And I'm to have
all mamma's rings and her watch and chain
the dead mamma's, you know  and when
I'm grown up I shall wear them !'

Good-bye,' says Beta, mournfully ; ' I
see they have set you against me, Cinthy,
but you were mother's darling all the same,
so God bless you, my dear, dear little sister,
and may you always have some one to love
you as well as your poor Beta does.'

And Beta runs off, unable longer to keep
back her streaming tears and choking sobs,
until she is stopped by the alarming, apoplectic
attempts of Trim to keep up with her,
and stifles her own feelings in order to save
the poor old animal. Her father re-married
after eight months of widowhood, and Hyacinth
taught to regard her name as a burning
disgrace. Truly her home (could she reenter
it) would no longer be home to her.
She cries herself nearly blind over the encounter
of the afternoon, and is quite relieved
by a piece of intelligence which Mr. Henderson
delivers to her at the supper table, and
which at any other time would have filled
her with dismay at the prospect of a fresh
separation and a new home.

I've got a letter here from my friend
Cheyne,' he says  *a fine fellow, Cheyne,
proprietor of the Buton and Byron Theatres,
and one of the kindest-hearted men in England.
Half of our best actors and actresses
have matriculated at Buton : I call it the

nursery of English dramatic art. Well, my
dear, I've been writing to Cheyne about you,
and he's willing, on my recommendation, to
give you an appearance on his boards. I am
afraid you won't be quite so cosy as we've
been here. There ain't an old woman like
mine at every corner, you know ; but Cheyne
has a niece at his theatre whose rooms you
can share, and I dare say you'll come to some
arrangement with her about your board.
Anyway, Cheyne will pay you a pound a
week till you're worth more to him, and you
must do the best you can on that.'

Oh, I am sure it will be ample,' says
Beta, who has no idea of the expense of
housekeeping, ' but I thought you were to
take my salary, Mr. Henderson. Won't
Mr. Cheyne pay you something too V

That's between him and me,' replies the
manager, with.his mouth full ; ' anyway, you
be a good girl, and live quietly and respectably
on your share, and as soon as Cheyne
raises me I'll raise you. You'll have capital

practice down at Buton, and first-rate management.
Work well, and do as you're told,
and you shall come back to London before a
twelvemonth's over your head.'

Oh, how good you are to me !' cries
Beta, gratefully ; * indeed I will work as
hard as ever I can, if it were only to see you
and dear Mrs. Henderson again !'

Mrs. Henderson weeps copiously at parting
with her adopted daughter, and abuses those
nasty theatres ' for a couple of days before
she quits them, when she actually ventures
out of doors, for about the first time in a
twelvemonth, to accompany Beta to the
railway station, and leave her in a third-class
carriage, with a packet of sandwiches in
her hand, all properly booked and labelled
for Buton.

 BE A GOOD GIRL.'

Miss Kate Montalambert, with whom
Beta is to share her rooms at Buton, is a
specimen of the old actress who can never
forget that she has been young. She is
waiting at the railway station, by her uncle's
request, to receive the new recruit, and comes
tripping along the platform as she catches
sight of Beta with a juvenile spring that
might have belonged to a girl of twenty.
She is attired in a very juvenile fashion also ;
her face is tightly covered with a spotted
veil, and is almost as much ' made up ' as it
is by night.

This is Miss Selwyn, I presume,' she

says jauntily. ' Well, my dear, uncle asked
me to come and meet you, as he thought
you would feel strange at first ; and so
we'd better drive straight home, and have
our dinner before we go down to the
theatre.'

But I haven't anything to do to-night,
surely V says Beta, alarmed at the idea
that she may be expected to appear in a new
part at an hour's notice.

'You're not on yet, but of course you'll
put in an appearance. Why, I go down
every night of my life, whether T play or
not. I couldn't spend an evening at home if
you were to pay me for it.'

I suppose you'd miss the music and the
company V says Beta, laughing.

My dear, I'd miss everything. The gas,
and the chatter, and the orchestra, and the
calls  well, there, you might as well put mein
a prison at once, as ask me to sit at home
of an evening and mope. If I have only a
pair of stockings to darn, I stand at the

wings and darn 'em there. I don't believe I
could anywhere else.'

I suppose you've been a long time on the
stage, then, Miss Montalambert V

All my life, child. I used to go on as a
fairy in uncle's pantomimes at three years
old  Buton is celebrated for its Christmas
Pantomimes, as I dare say you've heard 
and I stayed with him till sixteen ; and then
I went out on my own hook, worse luck !  I
wish I'd never done so  but uncle couldn't
do without me, you see, so here I am again,
and as likely to die at Buton as not.'

By this time they have reached Miss
Montalambert's lodgings, which are small
but comfortable, although the forks laid on
the little round table for dinner are of steel,
and the cruet-stand of a doubtful metal that
looks as if it had been dug up from
Pompeii.

Baked shoulder of mutton and onion
sauce, my dear. Hope you like it,' cries
Miss Kate gaily, as she casts aside her hat

and veil and displays a middle-aged, thin, and
puckered face, the lines in which pearl
powder and glycerine are powerless to conceal.
* I have a capital plan here. I pay
the woman of the house ten shillings a week
for my board, without liquor, you know, and
dine from the family joint. She'll do the
same by you, and you'll find it a great saving.
Then, the rooms are ten shillings a week also,
everything included ; so if you don't mind
sharing my bed, fifteen will see you clear.'

It isn't a question of minding,' replies
Beta, ingenuously ;  I must do it whether
I like it or not, because I'm only to have a
pound a week for the commencement.'

Bless you, child! I began on ten shillings,
and managed to live on it, too. But how
** green " you are ! Here's nature, and no
mistake,' says Miss Montalambert, playfully
pinching Beta's cheek ; ' but don't go and
tell everybody what you get. They'll think
all the more of you if they believe your
salary to be double.'

Will they V demands Beta with open
eyes ; ' but I want them to like me for what
I can do, not for what I can earn. Though
I suppose they will think the one depends on
the other.'

No, they won't, my dear. Most of them
won't think at all. They haven't the brains
to do it. But if you're a hard worker you'll
get on with uncle. He's always scolding me
for being such an idle thing, and liking play
too well.'

And Miss Kate looks so wicked that
Beta begins to question if she has made a
mistake, and her companion is four-and-twenty
instead of four-and-forty, despite her
general appearance.

 It will be such a comfort to have your
protection to and from the theatre,' Miss
Montalambert begins again presently, as she
glances at the golden-haired girl, young
enough to be her daughter, who is devouring
all she says. ' You can't think how awkward
it has been for me living alone. There are

so many idle young fellows in Buton  as in
all large towns  and they diO persecute one
so;

In what way V asks Beta.

Why, by following you, my dear ; and
writing you letters, and sending you flowers,
and all that sort of nonsense.'

 People whom you do not know V

Yes ; gentlemen who have seen me at
the theatre, and been foolish enough to lose
their hearts to me. It's really dreadful ! I
tell uncle sometimes he'll have to provide
me with an escort, and he says the best
thing I can do to protect myself is to marry
again !'

Have you been married, then V says
Beta.

Oh yes ! foolish thing that I was ! I
was married when a mere child. My mother
ought to have whipped me and sent me to
bed instead ; however, I would have my
way, and spoil all my chances. My real
name is Potter  Mrs. Henry Potter but

VOL. I. 15

I've been a widow for several years, and
these silly fellows know I'm free again, and
want to persuade mo to make a fool of
myself for the second time. But no, no !
they can't catch Kate Montalambert sleeping,
my dear ! I like my liberty too well, and
mean to enjoy it. It will be time enough
to think of marrying again when I am an
old woman.'

Beta thinks that if Miss Kate  or Mrs.
Potter  (she hardly knows which to call her)
intends to wait much longer, she will be too
old to marry at all ; but naturally she does
not say so.

Have you any children ?' she demands,
after a pause.

Yes, one ! my little boy. Mamma s pet,
as you may imagine. But I never take
the child about with me. It would not be
good for him ; and I should be in constant
anxiety on his account whilst I am at the
theatre.'

And indeed, as ' mamma's spoilt pet ' is

(as Beta subsequently ascertains) nearly
eighteen years old, and earning his own
livelihood in an iron foundry, it would be
both inconvenient and embarrassing for Miss
Kate Montalambert to encounter any of the
youthful adorers of Buton with a son by her
side of nearly their own age. But this new
phase of human weakness amuses Beta
more than it repulses her, for Mrs. Potter
believes so firmly in her own attractions that
she has no idea that the rest of the world is
laughing at her.

She has been so long on the boards of her
uncle's theatre, that she quite thinks she possesses
some authority there, and (Mr. Cheyne
being a widower) might make strangers at
first believe the same. But though she
paces the green-room each night, and stands
about at the wings as though the whole
place belonged to her, ordering the carpenters
and scene-shifters about, and directing the
actors as to their parts and portions, no one
ever takes the slightest heed of her 



hands ; and * Only old Kate at her larks !'
is a by word in the Buton Theatre Royal.

Beta is very much pleased on entering
the theatre that evening, to find that Mr.
Cheyne is about to entrust her with a oeal
part  indeed with seven or eight real parts 1
all of which he crams into her hands in
the course of their interview, telling her to
study them at once, so as to be able during
the ensuing week to fill the place of a young
lady under notice of dismissal.

Had he crammed Beta's hands with banknotes
instead, he could not have delighted
her more. She receives his orders with
glowing cheeks and kindling eyes ; and Mr.
Cheyne thinks, as he regards her, ' That if
Henderson is not mistaken in her talent, the
shrewd old manager knew what he was about
when he picked up that girl for the stage and
apprenticed her to himself

But look here, my dear,' he says, as their
first interview is brought to a conclusion,
let me give you a caution. You are going

Good Girl: 229

to live, I believe, with my niece, Kate
Montalambert. Well, Kate's a good girl 
a very good girl indeed !'  (Mrs. Potter
speaks of herself so continually as a girl
that her friends are beginning to think she
must be one)  'but she has no brains, and
she's a deal too fond of flirting and flattering.
Now don't you let her fill your head
with a lot of nonsense about young men,
and bouquets, and diamond rings. It's all
lies, my dear !  all lies ! I've been a manager
for forty years, and I never knew any young
woman come to good who believed in such
rubbish. The good girls may get diamond
rings in the next world  I know nothing
about that  but I'm quite sure they don't
get 'em in this. And as I feel in a measure
responsible to my friend Henderson for your
behaviour, I hope you'll remember what I
say. Stick to your work, and make up your
mind to do without lovers for the next ten
years, or you'll end where poor Kate is  at
the beginning !'

By which advice it may be presumed that
uncle ' has not so high an idea of his niece's
genius and personal attractions as Mrs. Potter
herself would lead you to believe.

I CANNOT STAY AT BLACK Abbott.'

Beta attends faithfully to Mr. Cheyne's
instructions, and discourages, as much as
possible, Mrs. Potter's revelations concerning
her mysterious admirers ; the secret assignations
they implore her to make ; the
frantic letters they write, and the valuable
presents she is forced to return to them.
And indeed it is no sacrifice to the girl to
forego such conversation. She has a refined
and modest nature. Anything that savours
of coarseness  especially with regard to love
or marriage  shocks and distresses her, and
Miss Montalambert's careless manner of
speaking of the young chemists, grocers,

and wine merchants who follow in her train,
is especially offensive to Beta, who often
wishes that * the glorious army of martyrs,*
as Miss Kate facetiously designates them,
were really dead of the love they are supposed
to be dying for. But Beta busies
herself with her play-books and with altering
her wardrobe to meet the coming emergencies,
and so avoids the dreaded topic as much
as possible. In this employment she finds
Miss Montalambert's aid invaluable. No
one can twist and turn a dress so as to suit
half a dozen parts like the kittenish actress,
nor make five shillings spread itself out in
laces and ribbons to furbish up as many old
robes to look like new. And though Mrs.
Potter's brain is weak and her vanity inordinate,
her heart is in the right place ; and
Beta, lonely and friendless in the world, can
forgive her every foible, for the sake of the
affection she lavishes upon her.

No jealousy exists between them, even
when, after a few weeks' practice, the young

girl is elevated to a post which is far above
that held by her companion. Miss Kate's
faith in herself is so complete, that it leaves
no margin even for envy of others. If she
is allotted the worst part, she only thinks
that * uncle ' has done it to spare her.

He knows I work so hard in the theatre,
dear,' she confides to Beta, * looking after
the men and the scenery, and the wardrobe,
that he is afraid I shall break down if he
imposes too great a mental strain upon me.
Dear, dear ! whatever will he do if one of
these foolish fellows over-persuades me to
become a bride assail ! I couldn't look after
both their interests at once, could I, Beta ?

and I really think it would break the old

/

man's heart to lose me !'

So Miss Montalambert's stream of life
glides calmly on, without a ripple to disturb
its equanimity. There are no people so
happy in this world as those who are perfectly
contented with themselves. Beta
does not feel so. She makes a very creditable

cUMt at the Buton Theatre, and Mr.
Cheyne gives her plenty of study and plenty
of practice.

Country theatres cannot afford to let their
pieces have a ' long run as they do in
London. Their patrons demand variety
above all other things, and a constant
change is absolutely necessary; sometimes
two or three times a week.

Mr. Cheyne seems determined to put
Beta through her paces, ' and see of what
metal the girl is made,' so that during the
course of a few months she maintains no
less than thirty or forty different characters.
On Monday she will personate a chambermaid,
on Wednesday an old woman, and on
Saturday perhaps a duchess. Sometimes
she has, with many a blush, to don garments
that are distasteful to her feelings ; but
Mr. Cheyne pooh-poohs all objections, and
maintains that she must try every style of
art, until she has settled down into her proper
position.

Still, although this is the life she has
wished for and chosen for herself, Beta is
not quite happy nor contented. Something
seems out of gear with her or her performance.
She goes on plodding through the
parts allotted her  sometimes with more
zest and pleasure than at others  but yet
not with her heart quite in her work, and
almost tempted on occasions to doubt if her
friends have not made a mistake in thinking
that she possesses more than ordinary ability
for the stage. But Mr. Cheyne seems satisfied
with her efforts, and Mr. Henderson writes
her encouraging letters, and so the girl tries
to believe the fault must lie with herself, and
that the cold and the damp of the autumn
have had some lowering effect upon her
energies.

Christmas arrives, and with it the inevitable
pantomime, in which there is no part
for Beta. Miss Kate Montalambert, who
has arms like lucifer matches, and legs like
drumsticks, and the remains of a very squeaky

soprano voice, has played the Queen of the
Fairies in her uncle's pantomimes ever since
she was three years old (as 'she takes good
care to inform the public), and refuses to give
up the part. So that arrayed in a very few
yards of white satin, and a great many
ounces of spangles, Miss Rates drives her
army of martyrs ' to distraction every night,
precisely at eight o'clock, whilst her young
companion sits at home, thankful for the
solitude and rest, poring over Shakespeare,
and Sheridan Knowles, and Lytton, and
dreaming of the days when she may have
a chance of putting her studies to some
advantage.

Is it not provoking, Beta V smirks Mrs.
Potter one morning over the breakfast-table ;
'that tiresome creature, Ashton, would insist
upon stealing one of the bouquets from my
dress last night, and declared he should keep
it till he died. As if the silly thing would,
you know ! But I must have some more
flowers for to-night  it's that artificial hawthorn

that we bought at Harrison's, over the
bridge  and I'm so tired I feel as if I could
hardly drag one leg after the other.'

 I'll go for you exclaims Beta. ' I know
the shop well, and the hawthorn too. There
was a lot of it in the window yesterday.'

Oh, you dear, good-natured darling !' cries
Miss Kate, enthusiastically. 'Well, if you
don't mind, do get me half-a-dozen sprays'
(they were twopence halfpenny each, I think),
for young Mr. Cook very nearly carried offa
bunch as well, and I dare say I shall have
a repetition of the scene to-night. It really
is very provoking !'

If you continue to supply all your admirers
at this rate I'm afraid you'll soon be
ruined, Kate,' says Beta, with a smile.

Oh, my dear ! what can I do ? They insist
upon it, you know. I really almost wish
I had not taken the part of Fairy Queen this
season. The dress is so conspicuous, and
makes one look so absurdly young. Mr.
Ashton told me last night he had a bet on

with another gentleman as to whether I was
twenty-two or twenty-six !'

There is little doubt as to Beta's age as
she sallies forth to do her friend's commission.
Her soft golden hair, her pure complexion,
her dewy grey eyes, the bloom upon her
cheek, all betoken the glow and elasticity of
sweet seventeen. She goes bounding along
the frosty pavement, wishing she were not
too old and dignified to run a race with the
dirty urchins that are scampering over the
road, and inhaling fresh draughts of life with
every healthy, full-drawn respiration. She
still wears her mourning robes, but they are
relieved now by bunches of violets that nestle
most becomingly against her golden hair and
alabaster skin.

She enters the linen-draper's shop quickly,
and with a little clatter that attracts the
attention of two young ladies at the counter,
and in another moment Beta is astonished
to hear her own name loudly ejaculated.

Beta  Beta Durant !' exclaims a voice

which seems familiar to her; 'where on earth
do you spring from?' and before she has
time to answer the question four arms are
cast about her neck and a vehement shower
of school-girl kisses descends on her unprotected
cheeks.

She looks up in amazement to recognise
two of her companions at Princess College
Ada and Ella Matthews, the sisters
of happy memory in connection with that
memorable duet on two pianos, in which the
one came up to the winning-post a full length
behind the other.

And who Avould have thought to see
you f replies Beta.  This is a surprise,
Ada. Why, it is a year since we parted !
And how you and Ella have grown I You
must be half a head taller than I am.'

Oh yes ! mamma calls us monsters, but
we left the college at Midsummer, Beta ;
and papa's place, Black Abbottss, is only about
eight miles from Buton.'

How I wish you would come out and

stay with us there ! Do, do come, Beta !
come back with us now. That is our phaeton
at the door, and we shall just be in time for
luncheon if you'll make haste.'

My dear Ada, what an idea ! As if I
could possibly go to Black Abbottss without
an invitation from your mamma,' says Beta.
Besides,' she adds, a little more timidly :
I don't think I could stay with you now,
under any circumstances.'

Oh, mamma shall ask you fast enough.
I'll make her write the invitation as soon as
ever we get home. She is always so pleased
for us to see our friends, because it's awfully
dull out there after London, and there's
heaps and heaps of room, isn't there, Ella V

'But perhaps Botha's friends won't like
her to come,' suggests Ella. * Are you staying
in Buton, Beta V

No ; I am living there,' she answers, with
a blush, anticipating the queries that will
follow.

Living in this horrid, dirty town ! I

shouldn't like that. Has your papa got a
house here, then V

No, Ada ; I live alone, or at least with
another lady says Beta ; ' but perhaps you
have not heard that I am an actress. I have
gone upon the stage.'

Upon the stage!' repeat the sisters, with
the becoming British horror of one of the
noblest professions in the world ; 'do you
mean that you act, Beta  really act, yourself!'
as if she could possibly act through
anyone else.

'Yes; I act for money, in order that I
may maintain myself,' replies Beta, firmly.
I have left home, Ada, and I shall never
live there again. I tell you this plainly, so
that you may see the reason why I could not
go and stay with you at Black Abbottss.'

Nonsense ! what difference does that
make V cries Ada, recovering from her first
.surprise. 'You are just the same that you
always were, Beta (only much better looking),
whatever you do ; and I think it must

VOL. I. 16

be lovely to be an actress. You'll hardly
believe it she adds, lowering her voice, ' but
Ella and I have never been inside a theatre,
not even at Christmas, papa's so horribly
particular, you know, and mamma's afraid to
go against him ; but of course we've heard
all about them, especially the pantomimes,
and I have often thought how delicious it
must feel to be a fairy with silver wings
hanging in the air, only I suppose one would
be a little giddy at first.'

I don't know, I'm sure,' replies Beta,
laughing ; ' I've never been a fairy hanging
in the air, Ada, so I cannot tell. But everyone
is not of your opinion, and with your
mamma and papa the fact of my being an
actress will probably make a great difference.'

I am sure it won't,' says Ada, confidently;
and you'll see for yourself before long. And
if mamma asks you to stay with us you will,
won't you, Beta ? and we will have such
fun together !'

Indeed, indeed I will ! that is, if I can

f*

get leave. I should enjoy it above everything
!' cries the other girl, some of the
memories and feelings of her former life
coming back upon her with a rush, and
causing a fierce longing to go back to it
again, if only for a few short days.

162

don't tell her.'

The Matthew girls get into their carriage and
drive away gaily, kissing their hands to
Beta until she is out of sight. Then Ella,
leaning over from her position on the back
seat, whispers in her sister s ear, so that the
coachman cannot overhear them.

Ada I ought you to have said what you
did to Beta Durant ? Do you think mamma
will let her come, when she hears she is an
actress V

Why not T demands Ada, with a heightened
colour, under the consciousness of a
probable mistake ; * what do they do on the
stage ? Is it ivrong, Ella V

 Well not exactly unviig, perhaps ; but I
am sure it isn't thought nice ! Miss Masters
and mamma were talking about Lady Farley
the other day, and why the county people
don't visit her ; and Miss Masters said something
about her having been an actress ; and
mamma sent me out of the room, and I know
it was just so that I might not listen.'

I hate Miss Masters !' exclaims Ada,.
energetically ; ' she is a horrid ill-natured
old maid, and if she hears anything about
Beta being on the stage, she'll try and
persuade mamma that we oughtn't to know
her. I can't bear such spite. Our own
schoolfellow, too  it would be too ridiculous I
Ella dear ! don't let us tell her.'

What ! Miss Masters ! Of course
not.'

No  no ! mamma I Beta doesn't call
herself *' Durant " on the staoe : she said so
just now, didn't she ? so, as we never go to
the theatre, mamma will not be the wiser. I
will undertake to make Beta ignore the

subject, and we can pretend we know nothing
about it.'

But suppose it ever comes out, Ada !
Won't mamma be awfully angry with us
then V

We must say we didn't understand. How
can we be expected to understand when papa
never allows us to see the inside of a theatre.
And I do want to have Beta at Black
Abbottss, don't you, Ella ?'

Of course I do ! I always liked her at
college. She was so kind in helping me over
those horrid themes and exercises. I would
do a great deal for Beta Durant.'

Then hold your tongue, my dear ; that
will be about as strong a proof of your
affection as you could possibly give her ; and
let me manage the rest. She said she was
staying with a friend at 15, Tavistock Gate.
I shall repeat what she told us, and mamma
shall write her an invitation to Black Abbottss
and send it off by this evening's post.'

Who could withstand the combined stratagem

of such a joair of manoeuvres ? Evidently
not Mrs. Matthews, for when Beta comes
down to breakfast the following morning, a
letter lies on her plate, containing the most
cordial invitation to pass as long a time
as convenient to herself with her old schoolmates
at Black Abbottss.

Notwithstanding the osiris' assertions to the
contrary, she has hardly expected to receive
it, and the reception gives her the keenest
pleasure, accepting it (as she does) as a
proof that the profession she has adopted
need not necessarily shut her out from all
association with her former friends.

Miss Montalambert dare not quite take
upon herself the responsibility of telling
Beta to answer her invitation in the
affirmative (notwithstanding her assumed
authority in all her uncle's affairs), but she
talks as confidently of his consent to the
proposed plan, as if she had already obtained
it.

My dear child !' she exclaims, ' you have

only to tell uncle you wish to go. We don't
want you at present, you know ; and if we
should do so, we have only to send you a
telegram. And it is the best thing possible
for you. I'm sure I'm delighted your friends
should have thought of it. It would kill me
to be out of the pantomime, as you are.
Quite a queer feeling comes over me sometimes
in the middle of the evening lest you
should do something rash left here all by
yourself. How you can stand it is a mystery ;
I'd rather be check-taker than out of the
fun.'

I am never alone you know, Kate,'
replies Beta, smiHng ; * Mr. Cheyne gave
me a hint to under study " Medea " for the
spring, and she and I make a fine noise here
together, I can tell you, whilst you are
driving Messrs Ashton and Cook to madness.'


Now, you naughty girl ! I won't be
laughed at. Studying " Medea " are you,
and praying all the while that the celebrated

Miss Cuthbert, who is enoased for our 'lead'
after the pantomime, may have a fit or a
stroke of paralysis, or something equally
nice to prevent her coming down to Buton.

Why not put it in a milder form, Kate,
and say a husband or a coronet V exclaims
Beta, laughing merrily. ' Fits and strokes
are such nasty ill-natured wishes. If Miss
Cuthbert's defection is to do me a good turn,
I would rather it came about in a pleasant
way for her.'

The question is, my dear, which is the
pleasant way ?' replies Miss Kate ; ' I
allow a coronet sounds nice, but as it must
needs be linked With a husband, I am not
quite sure if one would not recover sooner
from the paralysis.'

Beta encounters no difficulty on the part
of the good-natured manager, who simply
desires her to hold herself in readiness to
return to duty on the first reception of a
telegram. So she writes a grateful little note
to Mrs. Matthews, accepting her invitation,

and expressing her willingness to go to Black
Abbottss at her hostess's earliest convenience.
And so on the very next day Ada and
Ella, delighted at the prospect of their
visitor, though somewhat dubious as to the
best method of binding her over to secrecy,
arrive in a high state of excitement, to bear
her away.

Beta, dear,' says Ada, rather timidly,
as the carriage rolls rapidly with them to
Black Abbottss ; ' will you mind my asking
you something V

How can I tell, Ada, before I hear it T

Well ! it's nothing very out of the way,
only this : papa's an awful old fad. you know
always praying and that sort of thing  now
don't look frightened. I must say one thing
for papa, he never forces other people to pray
too, whether they like it or not ; but he's
dreadfully particular, and thinks everything
shocking ; so don't talk of the theatre
before him or mamma, will you '? there's a
dear.'

But, Ada !' cries Beta, her sensitive
nature immediately taking alarm. ' If your
parents hold such sentiments, how can they
approve of my visiting at Black Abbottss.
Oh ! I hope you and Ella haven't persuaded
them to invite me against their better judgment.'


Not a bit of it, Beta ! What a funny
girl you are. Of course mamma knows all
about you, and that you are Major Durant's
daughter, and is delighted that you should
come to Black Abbottss  only, will you
promise me not to say anything about the
stage ?  not before her or papa  because they
don't like to talk of it  that's all.'

Still Beta's face looks troubled.

I am afraid they are ashamed of me,'
she says sadly.

Not a bit of it !' cries Ada ; ' only they
like long prayers themselves better than
theatres. Can't you understand ? Why,
even the people who only go to the play 
like Miss Masters, and lots of others  never

speak of what they have seen before papa,
because he frowns and turns up the whites of
his eyes until they are quite ill.'

 Oh, I see !' exclaims Beta ; ' you don't
want me to introduce the subject for fear of
a lecture. Trust me, Ada ! I like sermons
as little as yourself. And, indeed, I have
but little to tell. I have been for so short a
time upon the stage, that it has been all
drudgery as yet. And at no time should I
much care, I think, to talk about myself. If
the world never hears of my name, without
my aid, the longer it remains in oblivion the
better.'

Well ! that point's settled,' says Ada,
blithely ; ' and now we've got nothing to do
but to enjoy ourselves.'

It appears likely they wil do so. Black
Abbottss is a beautiful old country seat,
capable of affording every amusement to
three lively girls, and Mrs. Matthews receives
Beta with a motherly welcome that
makes her feel quite at her ease. She and

her husband, who were already middle-aged,
when the double blessing was accorded them
of twin daughters, look much too old to bethe
parents of Ada and Ella ; and feel much
too old into the bargain.

Consequently, the young ladies rule the
roast at Black Abbottss, and have done so
from their infancy, so that the pious old
father, especially, is generally but too glad
to get out of their way and leave them to
their own devices. No wonder, therefore,
that they have so little scruple in hoodwinking
their parents : and introducing their
friend Miss Durant simply as an old schoolfellow,
passing the winter in Buton with an
acquaintance. And innocent Beta goes
into the trap, blindfold, never doubting that
she has been invited there, spite of her profession,
and proportionately grateful for the
fact.

The weeks pass rapidly away. One  two
three, have flown, and still the popularity
of the Buton pantomime shows no signs of decrease,

and Betlia is left in peace to enjoy
herself at Black Abbottss.

A hard frost sets in, and skating becomes
the order of the day. The ornamental
water in Mr. Matthews's park is frozen over,
and the gates are thrown open for the benefit
of the public.

Now we shall have some real fun,' says
Ada; 'papa is so horridly particular, you
know, that he will not allow us to skate off
the grounds, for fear of our being spoken to,
or some rubbish of that sort ; but he can
hardly forbid our using our own ice, and
there's been a right of way through the park
for the last century, so he is unable to shut
that up, either !'

I am afraid your papa must find you and
Ella rather careful blessings remarks Beta.
I wonder what he would say if you showed
an inclination to marry anybody !'

I am sure I don't know ! He'd have a
fit, I suppose. You see, Beta, papa's a
great deal too old for girls like us. He was

seventy-six last birthday. How can you
expect him to sympathise with the wishes
and pursuits of eighteen ? But he won't
come down to the ice, thank goodness ! It
always makes him ill. And we shall have
all the county people over here tomorrow,
and no end of larks  everybody knows that
Black Abbottss water makes the best skating
in Somerset.'

On the following day, she is very busy
pointing out the different visitors on the ice
for Beta's edification.

That's Lady Farley with the scarlet
petticoat  the one that was an actress, you
know she says in a whisper. ' Do you
think her pretty ? Miss Masters says she
dyes her hair  but T don't know, I'm sure.
I don't like it  it's just like a brass candlestick
 you'll never change the colour of your
hair, will you, Beta ? It would be ten
thousand pities. And there's old Masters
herself with her beaky nose and her piggy
eyes ! I can't bear that woman ! I say all

kinds of things to annoy her, and papa reads
me lectures about 'soft answers turning
away wrath." Here comes Emily Stewart !
She used to be at the Princess College with
us, but she left before you came. Emily's
awfully nice and clever ; she wanted us once
to join in some private theatricals at her
mother's house  she said she was sure I
could act, because I make such queer faces 
and papa talked for three hours about the
*' devil's play-house," and the '' bottomless
pit," till we were all sick.'

Oh, Ada ! Ada ! how wild you are !' cries
Beta, * I ought not to encourage your
naughtiness, but I can't help laughing
at it.'

Of course you can't ! I did not mean
you to. But, Beta, skate down to the
farthest corner of the pond with me, and I'll
show you something really interesting  a
rich young man !'

Is a rich young man such a vara avis in
Somerset, Ada V

Yes ; they're scarce enough under any
circumstances, but this young man is more
than rich, he's eligible. He's an only son,
and an only grandson, and his papa and his
grand mamma are to leave him all their money,
and they have made such an awful coddle of
him that I wonder they let him out on the
ice for fear he should take cold.

And yet you call him interesting !'

Of course he is, because he'll be so rich.
To tell you the truth, Beta, I believe papa
wants him to marry Ella or me, for he is
always bringing him home to Black
Abbottss unexpectedly to spend the evening
with us. Papa's awfully pious, and always
lecturing other people on their worldliness and
love of gain, but he's got an eye to the main
chance as well as his neighbours, I can tell you.'

But you don't see it in the same light,
Ada.'

Not I, my dear. My fancy lies in quite
a different direction. Now there's a young
fellow called Graham. Oh, Beta, he's

VOL. I. 17

just divine ! such eyes, such hair, and the
dearest, sweetest Httle silky moustache that
you ever saw  but no money of course.
Those handsome men never have, and papa
is always as surly with him as possible ; and
one evening, when he and I had slipped
away together into the conservatory to have
a little quiet talk, papa actually had the impertinence
to come after us, and he lectured
me so, and was so rude to Mr. Graham
that he has never been near Black Abbottss
since. Wasn't it a horrid shame ? I was in
such a rage with papa that I didn't speak to
him for three days afterwards. But now for
the interesting Robert ! By the way, his
old grandame is to dine with us this evening.
Here comes his long nose down the left-hand
side. You might see it half a mile off without
glasses. And with a comforter round
his throat, of course. The molly-coddle !
Stop, Beta ! don't start yet. It's only fair
you should have a chance. Wait till I have
introduced him to you.'

Beta is lauohino- at the nonsense of her
friend when a tall, lanky young man comes
satins: full tilt against them, and stretching
out both his arms in an awkward endeavour
to avoid the inevitable collision, nearly sends
her flat upon her back.

172

CHAPTER Xviii.

I NEVER THOUGHT TO MEET YOU HERE.'

'Now then, stupid!' cries the lively Ada,
where are you going T

The young man thus addressed makes a
violent effort to regain his equilibrium, and
then, with a very red face and breathing
hard, he manages to get his hand to his hat,
and commences to stammer out an apology.
But the first words have barely left his lips
before he interrupts them with an exclamation
of surprise :

Miss Durant ! is it possible V

Oh, Mr. Free ! I never thought I should
meet you down here !' and their hands are
simultaneously extended to in-feet each other.

Why, do you mean to say that you are
already acquainted V says Ada. ' What a
little world this is ! I declare I never prepare
a pleasant surprise for my friends but I
find they know all about it beforehand.
Where on earth did you two meet X

In London, Miss Matthews. I have the
honour to know Miss Durant's aunt, Mrs.
Chapman, and we have met each other at
her house frequently. But it is very strange
that I should not have heard you mention
Miss Durant's name, Miss Matthews, during
the many evenings I have had the pleasure
of spending at Black Abbottss.'

Not at all, Mr. Free. When gentlemen
come to see me, I expect them to think of me
and not of my friends, so I am careful not to
introduce the subject. But really and truly,
neither Ella nor I thought there was the remotest
chance of getting dear Beta down
here until we met her by mere accident in
Buton.'

Oh, are you staying in Buton \ Is Mrs.

Chapman there, or  or any of your other
friends V

Beta feels conscious as she answers :

No, Mr. Free, my aunt and cousin are still
in London, and I have not been at Earl's
Court since I left it to stay with. Miss
Kemyss at Albert Gate.'

Were you there ? How vexatious ! I
Lavish I had known it. I tried so hard to get
your address from Miss Chapman, but she
vas so reserved on the subject that I became
afraid that I had offended you beyond hope
of pardon, and you had cautioned your aunt
not to divulge your place of residence tome.'


This he ventures to say, seeing that Ada
lias skated a little way apart from them in
order to recognise another friend. Beta
grows scarlet, remembering the circumstances
under which they parted, but her self-possession
does not forsake her.

Did we not part friends, Mr. Free V she
says quietly.

We did, thanks to your goodness ; and I
trust we meet the same. Are you staying
here for any time V

I am not sure. It is quite uncertain. I
may be recalled any day.'

Recalled to London V

'No, to Buton, where I am living with a
lady friend.'

I hope you will not receive that summons,
then, for a long time to come. How delightful
it is to have met you ! I suppose you
know that my father's seat, Baron's Court, is
only three miles from here !'

Indeed, I know nothing. Ada has never
mentioned your name, and this meeting was
quite as great a surprise to me as to yourself


Oh, you must come over and see tho
Court some day. It is such a fine old place,
you will be charmed with it. I must speak
to Mrs. Matthews about it this evening.
By the way, we are all to dine at Black
Abbottss to-night, and then I shall be able

to introduce you to my grandmother, Lady
Free.'

I am rather afraid of Lady Free, from
what I have heard of her says Beta, laughing
nervously. ' Aunt Janie used to say she
was so very rigid in her principles and
notions of decorum.'

But you won't think the worse of her for
that, I am sure, Miss Durant replies Bobby,
eagerly ; 'it is just what a lady should be.
If my grandmother has a fault, it is pride of
birth and an unstained name. The idea of a
woman stepping out of her position to do
anything that is lowering to herself or her
family, is terrible to her. I think she is
rather hard sometimes upon her own sex.
and seems to forget that she was once young
herself; but she has been a kind and good
grandmother to me ; a mother, I may say,
for I do not remember my own.'

She will never like me /' exclaims Beta,
determinately.
Don't say that ! Why shouldn't she V

Because I am sure she won't  for a
thousand things. In the first place, I am not
at all her type of young lady. I am fearless,
and independent, and love to have my own
way.'

But you will never do anything unbecoming
a gentlewoman I I will take my oath of
that cries Bobby, hotly.

Not in my own ideas of what is unbecoming.
But many people might think my ideas
all wrong. And Lady Free is one.'

Don't judge her before you have seen her,'
says her companion, imploringly ; and then
Ada returns to Beta's side, and the girls
keep together for the remainder of the morning,
and there is no opportunity for Bobby
Free to do more than let his eyes rest
admiringly on Beta's figure whenever they
are not diverted elsewhere. The homage is
very unobtrusive, but it does not escape the
notice of the Miss Matthews, who chafi"'
poor Beta unmercifully on the subject till
dinner-time.

You've made a conquest, my dear.
Hooray ! Let me congratulate you ! Mrs.
Robert Free, of Baron's Court ; and when
his old father's dead, you'll be Lady Free,
with about fifteen thousand a year ! Upon
my word, Ella, when I come to think of it,
ought we to sit down quietly and let her
carry off the prize ? Why, the creature will
have enough to keep both of us, and as we
have made up our minds never to separate,
the arrangement will be most convenient.
Even his honor nose will become a ' blessings
in disguise' (as papa says) under the circumstances.
That will bear division as well
as his purse. Ella, my child ! let us wear
our new blue dresses this evening and cut
this interloper out. Bobby will never be
able to withstand an assault from such combined
forces.'

You can easily cut me out,' says Beta,
laughing,  for I have no dress to put on, Ada,
except the one I wear every evening. I
never thought you would have dinner-parties

at Black Abbottss, or I should have told you
that I was not prepared to do you credit 1'

My dear gh'l/ says Ada, * there's a deep
plot underlying your apparent humility.
You know that your plain black dress is the
very thing to ingratiate you in the eyes of
Lady Free. The old lady wears black velvet
and diamonds herself, but she considers that
young girls are much better without any
ornaments whatever. And, if Ella and 1 do
wear the blue dresses, she and papa will
retire to a corner, and shake their heads over
them for an hour together ! No, no, you're
the girl for Bobby's grand mamma ! I
shouldn't wonder if she ordered him to marry
you on the spot.'

She might order a long time before I
should obey her,' says Beta, merrily, as the
girls separate to dress for dinner.

Lady Free tallies well with Ada's description.
As Beta enters the drawing-room
she finds herself led up to a grand dignified
old lady, clad in the richest black velvet.

Her features, though cast in a more refined
mould, bear all the family characteristics,
which she is so proud to see reproduced in
her son and grandson.

Lady Free's nose is long and sharp, her
eyes brown and piercing, and the slender
tapering fingers of her fine old hands are
covered with the most magnificent diamond
rings.

Her white hair, which is worn in two large
puffed curls on either side her face, gives
her the appearance of a Frenchwoman, which
is enhanced by her wax-like complexion,
and the perfect taste displayed in her
attire.

She looks at Beta keenly as the girl
courtesies gracefully before her.

A daughter of Major Durant, did you
say, Mrs. Matthews ? Glad to know you,
mj dear ! Glad to see you've got some one to
teach you how to dress ! It's very seldom I
see a girl in a nice modest gown nowadays.
They think of nothing but showing their

shoulders and their feet. '' When is a lady
not a lady ? When she's a little bear 1"
That's my favourite riddle  but very few
girls can answer it as you could. And
where does your father live ?  in London f

Yes, Lady Free.'

He is a Durant of Morristown, I suppose.
I knew one of the family some years ago.
Willoughby  to her son  ' you remember
Sir Fergus Durant, who was staying in Rome
With us in 'forty-three. He must be a connection
of this young lady. All the
Durants came from the same stock.'

Sir Willoughby Free, who bears an
almost ludicrous resemblance to his son,
having the same height, features, colouring,
and awkward gait, shambles forward and
mutters some incoherent reply to his mother's
question.

Of course you do,' resumes the talkative
old lady (if Bobby has any gifts of conversation,
he has inherited them from his
grandmother, and not from his either). ' No

one could forget Sir Fergus. He was a
delightful young man, and never missed any
of his religions duties. I hope you are religious,
my dear ! No good ever came of a
young woman that was not !'

I  I  try to be so, madam replies
Beta, hesitatingly.

 You must do more than " try'' my dear !
you must he so once and for all !' says Lady
Free ; ' and don't encourage too great a love
for dress, or flirting, or theatres, and such
vain amusements. They have been the
perdition of too many young people already.
If I thought our Robert set store on such
follies, it would break my heart.'

Dinner is ready, Lady Free,' says Mr.
Matthews, at this juncture, as he hears her
off upon his arm. Beta follows with Bobby.
The conversation she has just held depresses
her. If, with such sentiments, Lady Free
knew of the calling she pursues, would she
condescend to sit down at the same table
with her. And has she the rio-ht to make

mr. and Mrs. Matthews feel as uncomfortable
as they must be feeling at the deception they
are compelled to assist in keeping up ?

Do you disapprove of theatres ?' she
whispers timidly to Bobby, as they file
through the hall into the dining-room.

I 1 of course not ! I think they're the
j oldest things possible, and go to them whenever
I have the opportunity. But I don't
tell grand mamma. She is uncommonly
particular  so, in fact, is my father. They
consider theatres and all places of amusement
throng ! Well, let them continue to think so.
It pleases them, and it doesn't hurt us ; and
they'll never alter my opinion on the subject
if they talk till Doomsday.'

I am glad of that says Beta ; and she
gives Bobby's arm a grateful little squeeze as
she speaks. The young man misinterprets
the action. She is glad  poor child  to
think that there is one person, at least, who,
if the truth were told, would not condemn-her
; that she has one friend in the company

who she feels is not too good nor too pious
for her to talk to. The young people are
merry enough during the ensuing meal, and
Beta soon forgets the uneasiness caused by
Lady Free's address. But as soon as the
ladies return to the drawing-room, she calls
the girl to her side again. She has taken a
fancy to her appearance. There is something
so refined and aristocratic-looking about the
cut of her features and the willowy lines of
her figure : something so true and good in
the earnest expression of her eye, and the
mobile curve of her pure sweet lips.

'You must come and see me at Baron's
Court, my dear,' she commences, ' I have
just asked Mrs. Matthews to bring you over.
We have a beautiful music-room there, and
a gallery of pictures and many other things,
that I think you would like to see.'

'You are very good, madam,' says Beta,
gratefully.

'And the loveliest lake all fringed with
evergreens !' interrupts Ada. * Lady Free,

does your ice bear well, and may we bring
our skates over and have a skate V

Certainly, my dear, if your mamma approves
of it. For my part, I don't think that
skating is a very desirable exercise for young
ladies. If they could pursue it by themselves,
it might be different, but the presence
of gentlemen, and the love of display, and
the indelicate dresses now worn for the purpose,
all tend to promote much folly. I hope
you do not wear those absurdly short dresses
on the ice, Miss Matthews. They are not
decent.'

Oh no ! I always skate in a riding
habit !' cries Ada, mischievously.

I need not put the question to you,'
continues Lady Free, as her eyes rest approvingly
upon Beta.

I do not possess a skating costume,' replies
the girl, smiling :  so I am obliged to
appear in my ordinary dress.'

All the better, my dear ; all the better
is the old lady's answer ; and she does not
VOL. I. 18

even resent the marked attention shown
by Bobby to Beta during the remainder of
the evening.

The whole family, indeed, seem to have
taken a fancy to the girl. Lady Free insists
upon fixing an early day for the visit to
Baron's Court before she leaves, and Sir Willoughby,
Avhen shaking hands with Beta,
intimates his pleasure at the prospect of
welcoming her there, whilst Bobby, his face
beaming with delight, stands by and shows
his satisfaction by his blushes.

Chapter I.

I promise

The visit to Baron's Court commences auspiciously.
The day is bright and clear : the
ice is reported to be in good condition, and
Lady Free has no fault to find with the
young ladies' dresses. The morning is spent
in making rather a formal inspection of the
picture gallery and library. Sir Willoughby
and his mother insist upon conducting their
guests round the Court themselves ; and as
the old lady's gait is slow, and the speech of

VOL. II. 19

her son is discursive, the young people are
called upon to halt at every second step,
whilst she recovers her breath, or he
stammers forth a long-winded account of
the particular book, picture, or statue under
contemplation.

This ordeal lasts until luncheon time, when
Sir Willoughby hands Mrs. Matthews
solemnly into the dining-room, and the girls
follow, delighted to think that their penance
is over. But stiffness prevails even at the
meals of Baron's Court. Every dish they
partake of seems to be unnaturally cold ; the
beer and wine are frozen : the fruit sets one's
teeth on edge ; and everybody is relieved
when Sir Willoughby's lengthy grace after
meat is concluded, and Lady Free suggests
that Bobert might take the young ladies
for a turn round the grounds or on the
ice.

I wish I could go with you, my dear,' she
says, as she places a detaining hand upon

Beta's slender shoulder  it is wonderful,
even to herself, the fancy she has taken for
this girl ; * but the cold of a winter's afternoon
is too much for me. Pray wrap upwell,
and do not stay out too long. An
hour at the most will be sufficient. And
mind you take care of Miss Durant, Robert ;
and see that none of the young ladies take
cold.'

I call that pointed f exclaims Ada, as
soon as they are out of hearing. ' Mind you
take care of Miss Durant, Robert ! Lady
Free evidently cares little what may become
of my sister or of me !'

Pray do not so misinterpret my grandmother's
words, Miss Matthews,' says Bobby.
I am sure she intended her caution to apply
to you all !'

But he does not think so, and his face is
glowing with pleasure at the favourable impression
which Beta has evidently made
upon his relations.

192

'And how do you like the Court?' he
asks her earnestly, when Ada has become
tired of teasing him. * Is it better or worse
than you anticipated V

Oh, it is beautiful  grand  glorious !' replies
Beta ;  better than anything I had
dreamed of! But then I never thought
much about it, you know,' she adds, ingenuously
;  only it is the finest old place I have
ever seen, and looks more like a palace tome
than the residence of a private gentleman
!'

I am so glad you like it,' says Bobby,
fervently. ' I think it is rather nice myself ;
but then, you see, I was born and brought
up here ; and some day it will be my own,
so I cannot help feeling a great interest
in it.'

It must be lovely to have such a place
for one's very own,' replies Beta, not dreaming
that Bobby will take her words for more
than they mean.

Now, what are you two " mooning "
about V cries Ada, running back to them
with a long spray of flowering myrtle in her
hand. ' Beta, there are the most magnificent
hothouses there you ever saw, and full
of such flowers and grapes ! Do be brisk
and enjoy yourself a bit. I'm sure we've
been cooped up long enough for one day 
no offence to you, Mr. Fr-ere  and might
make a better use of our liberty now we
have it.'

No need to tell them to make full use
of it after that. Once away from Baron's
Court and out of the shadow of its towering
old buttresses, these young people seem determined
to enjoy themselves to the utmost.
They run  they laugh  they jump together
all down the garden-paths and through
the long line of forcing-houses. They are
alone, remember : there are no spectators to
frown down their merriment, and the eldest of
them numbers but two-and-twenty summers.

The grim old gardeners, who have dug
and delved at Baron s Court for the last
twenty years, prick up their dull ears at the
sound of the girlish laughter, and look
after the springing forms with visible pleasure.


It were better if we saw more of such
visitors to the Court,' remarks one to another,
as Beta thanks him with her sweet smile
and sweeter eyes for rendering her some
trifling assistance.

Master Bobert, he seem very sweet on all
three of 'em replies his companion ; and indeed,
Bobert has for once come out of his
shell of shyness, and appears as joyous and
light-hearted as a boy of ten.

Still in the same mad spirits, having made
the tour of the gardens, the young people
rush upon the ice, where Ada declares they
have a splendid opportunity of taking a
lesson in the art of cutting a spread eagle 
an accomplishment in which Bobby believes

that he excels. They have the frozen lake
all to themselves : Sir Willoughby and Lady
Free would as soon think of sitting down to
dinner with their grocer, as allowing the
public to enter their grounds ; therefore their
ice is sacred to their visitors. It is a large
lake for an artificial one, and the young
people feel as if they were in an empty ballroom,
and skim over it like swallows, without
fear of collision, chasing each other from end
to end, and proceeding without the slightest
caution.

Bobby is in the very centre of the ice
executing his spread eagle to the admiration
of Ada, who has twice fallen on her back in
her attempts to emulate him ; and Ella, who
is the worst skater of the four, is engaged ina
hopeless pursuit after Beta, who keeps on
crossing her wake in the most provoking
manner and darting off again with a merry
peal of laughter, just as Ella thinks she hasher
hand upon her. At last they ' cannon '

against each other on the most open part of
the lake, where the ice has been longest exposed
to the winter sun. Beta ducks her
head, and with a graceful curve of her body,
is about once more to elude her pursuer,
when Ella comes in her clumsy fashion, full
tilt against her, and fairly knocks her over.
As the girls go down together, they laugh,
but the next moment a report like a pistol
sounds upon the air, there is a plunge and a
rush of water, and a loud scream from Ella
draws the attention of Robert and Ada to
the occurrence.

What is the matter, Ella ? Have you
hurt yourself V

No, no ! but Beta ! Beta has gone in.
Beta is under the ice,' cries Ella, as she
points to the huge hole where our heroine
has disappeared.

Keep back ! keep back !' exclaims Bobby
authoritatively, as he pushes the two girls
towards the bank,  or we shall all be in together

!' and then without another word he
strips off his jacket, and breaking the
damaged ice all round with his feet, plunges
in after the drowning girl.

Fortunately she rises at the same spot,
and Bobby, seizing hold of her arm, keeps
her up somehow in the freezing water until
they are both in safety. Twice the rotten
ice gives way under them, and Ada and Ella
scream in concert as they get another ducking,
but the gallant young fellow manages it
at last, and they are both safely landed on
the bank. Beta is not insensible during the
transaction, nor even much frightened. She
keeps on saying :

 Oh, Mr. Free ! do leave me ! Do think
of yourself What is the good of hoi of us
being: drowned V

But Bobby holds on fast till her arm is
pinched black and blue, and her hair is nearly
torn out by the roots, and they are safe on
terra firma. And then Beta, wet through,

and cold as ice, without a hat on her head,
and her hair streaming down her back, can
hardly help laughing at the comical expression
of terror depicted on the faces of her friends.

It's all right, Ada !' she says. ' I'm not
dead yet, you see  but  I'm  very  very
cold !' she ejaculates with chattering teeth.

 You mustn't sit here ; you must come
home at once and let grand mamma see after
you  or you may be ill !' exclaims Bobby
with genuine concern.

Oh, Mr. Frero ! how can I thank you !
It was you that did it. I am trying to laugh
it off; but if it had not been for you, I
should certainly have been drowned. It was
so cold and so dark !' she reiterates with a
shudder.

Nonsense, Miss Durant !  it was nothing
nothing. Anybody could have pulled you
out replies Bobby ; ' only we had better get
back to the Court as fast as we can, and
change our clothes !'

She staggers to her feet, but the shock has
been greater than she will allot, and it is
with difficulty she can drag her trembling
limbs to the house. As soon as she reaches
it, however, she receives all possible sympathy.


Lady Free has a confidential maid called
Withers, who has been in her service for half-century,
and Mrs. Withers is only too delighted
to be entrusted with the charge of
the drowned young gentleman and lady, and
ordered to see that every precaution is taken
against the effects of their accident.

Beta and Bobby fight strenuously against
the idea of being put to bed ; but to bed
they are put all the same, whether they like
it or not, and well dosed with feather-quilts,
warming-pans, spiced wines, and other remedies
against the misadventure they have
gone through.

Lady Free, indeed, wall not hear of Beta
leaving the Court that day, but persuades

Mrs. Matthews to let the girl remain her
guest until the morrow, on the plea that it
would be highly dangerous for her to quit
her bed again now that she is thoroughly
warm and comfortable. And Beta has no
particular wish to dispute the point. The
spiced wine is a very soothing and sleep-inducing
medicine, and she lies under her
feather-quilt tranquilly watching the flames
of the wood fire flickering on the wall, and
thanking God in a languid drowsy way that
she has been preserved from a horrible death.
And meanwhile Mrs. Withers, in her old-fashioned
starched net cap and snowy apron,
sits beside the bed and entertains her with an
account of all the fatal accidents she has ever
heard of ; and points out how thankful she
ought to be, to be lying in her bed instead of
her coffin.

'Yes, I suppose I might have been
drowned, if Mr. Free hadn't been there
says Beta, sleepily. ' It all happened so

quickly, that I can hardly remember anything,
but I know I bumped my head against the
ice the first time I came up

Oh, my dear young lady, it is a providence
 a real providence T exclaims Mrs.
Withers, solemnly. * And Mr. Robert, too 
such a brave, good young man ! If he had
been cut off, his papa and his grandma would
never have held up their heads again. Why,
he's their all, miss ! positively their all.'

Yes ; I never thought before of his running
the risk with me. It would have been
terrible if anything had happened to him 
and when he is going to have this beautiful
place for his own, too. He had much better
have let me drown by myself.'

Oh, don't say that, miss ! Mr. Robert
has been brought up to do his duty, and he
would never shirk it, not even if death stood
in the way. But I can't bear to think what
might have been the consequence if things
had happened otherwise.'

It was very good of him  it was veiy
very good of him murmurs Beta drowsily,
as she closes her eyes to hide the tears that
come into them, as she recalls the sad expression
of Bobby's face in Mrs. Chapman's
drawing-room, when she told him that she
could not love him.

Many people would have let me drown
after that,' she thinks childishly, ' and been
glad, perhaps, to see me drown, like Danny
Mann did the Colleen Sawn. It was very
kind of Mr. Free to risk his own life to save
mine  much kinder than I have deserved of
him.'

By which it will be seen that Elizabeth
Durant's ideas of love are founded on her
knowledge of that passion, as, exhibited by
the heroes and villains of dramatic art, rather
than by any individual experience gained
from this matter-of-fact existence.

Lady Free visits her young guest more
than once during the evening, and Beta

inquires eagerly after the welfare of her
preserver.

He is as well as yourself, my dear. He
has been sensible enough to take the advice
of an old woman and remain in bed, and so I
hope to see you both down to breakfast tomorrow
morning. Robert is an excellent lad
dutiful, respectful, and obedient. He has
never caused his father, nor myself, a heartache
in his life. He is a good son, and will
make a good husband.'

Still praises of Mr. Free ! Beta goes
to sleep that night with them ringing in her
ears, and descends to breakfast the next morning
glowing with gratitude to, and admiration
of, this lanky, high-shouldered hero with the
long nose and the short-sighted eyes.

Am I not gorgeous !' she exclaims, as she
comes dancing towards him in the clear cold
sunshine of the winter s morning. ' Look at
my dress ! You may fancy a ducking would
not improve it, Mr. Free ; and more than

once, yesterday, I contemplated with horror
what I should look like when I put it on
again ; but Lady Free is so good  she set
Mrs. Withers to work last night to dry and
iron it, and retain it with this beautiful silk,
so that I have come out " better than new !"
Was it not kind of her V

Grandmamma is always kind in her way,'
replies Bobby; * but I never saw her fuss
-about anybody yet as she does about you. She
has taken a very great fancy to you, Beta.'

I am so glad,' replies the girl, not noticing
the familiarity of his address ; ' for she is
such a charming old lady, and I think, when
really good people take a liking for me, that
I can't be all bad myself

All had echoes Bobby. ' All good, you
mean, from head to foot. How thankful I
am that yesterday's accident has had no worse
results for either of us.'

Oh I Mr. Free, I have not thanked you
yet  I have not told you '

Please don't, then ! If there is an obligation
on either side, it lies on mine. But
here are the pater and mater ; so now we
shall get something to eat.'

Sir Willoughby is earnest in his congratulations
on Beta's restored looks, and his
mother, greatly to the astonishment of all
present, kisses the girl upon her forehead.

Welcome, my dear she says with stately
courtesy, ' to Baron's Court ; and I hope it
will not be the last time you Avill be our
guest here. I must let you return to Black
Abbottss this afternoon, as I promised Mrs.
Matthews you should be ready when she
sent the carriage ; but if you approve of the
plan, I shall ask her permission to have you
for a few days to myself next week. Will
you come V

If  if  I am able,' stammers Beta, with
reddening cheeks.

You mean, if your friends consent ! Of
course you must ask your papa's leave first ;

VOL. II. 20

but I think;, when he hears my name, that
he will give it. The Frees have always
been on good terms with the Durants.'

And then they sit down to breakfast, and
under the diversion caused by the meal,
Beta's confusion has time to subside. But
she cannot forget it. Lady Free's invitation
has made her remember that she is visiting
at Baron's Court under false pretences, and
she cannot be happy until she has relieved
her mind upon the subject.

Mr. Frere/ she whispers, as they rise from
table ; ' are you busy this morning ? Can
you take me for a walk in the garden V

Bobby's face glows with pleasure at the
invitation.

 Busy ! Certainly not ! I wish I were ;
for that would intimate I was of some use in
the world  not that I would miss the pleasure
of taking you into the garden, Beta, for
anything,' he says in his bashful, awkward
manner. And then this well-brought-up

young man raises his voice, and continues :
Grandmamma, miss Durant and I would
like to take a turn in the garden.'

Very well, my dear Robert, why not V
replies Lady Free  ' only no more skating,
remember. I cannot have this dear young
lady's life risked a second time.'

Oh no, you may trust us for that,' says
Bobby. I don't think either Miss Durant
or myself would care to have another duck-that's

a sweet girl, Willoughby,' remarks
the old lady to her son as they stand at the
window together and watch Beta and
Bobby walking demurely down the terraced
walk ; * handsome, ladylike, accomplished,
modest, and of a good family. I don't think
our Bobert could do better if he searched the
whole world round.'

Does our Bobert think of doing anything
at all ?' demands Sir Willoughby, solemnly.

I cannot say, my dear son ; but I should

202

think anybody could see that he is much
taken by her. And it would be a good thing
to see him settled, Willoughby, young as he
is. Young men are so wild nowadays, and
the world is full of temptations. It would
be a good thing if Robert were settled down
with a sweet young woman like Miss Durant
for his wife. It would keep him quietly at
Baron's Court with us, instead of running
about that dreadful London all by himself


Do as you like, my dear mother, do as
you like,' replies Sir Willoughby, speaking as
unconcernedly of his son's settlement in life,
as if he had been a carriage-horse that Lady
Free Ravished to part with or exchange.

The young people continue to walk demurely
 that is, some paces apart from one
another  down the path that leads to the
garden ; but as soon as they are out of sight
of the Court, Beta addresses her companion
hurriedly.

Mr. Free, I must speak to you. I feel
so very uncomfortable about something.
You heard what your grand mamma said just
now about my writing for my father's leave
to stay at Baron's Court. She is evidently
unaware that I am not on speaking terms
with my father, that he turned me out of his
house, and I could not visit here on such
conditions

Bobby looks thoughtful, and pulls his budding
moustache, making himself uglier than
usual under the operation.

No, I don't suppose she does know it ; I
never told her, at least, although I heard all
about it at Mrs. Chapman's  and I thought
it a horrid shame, Beta, and I think so still.
But what difference can it make to grand-mamma's
asking you here ? She would
think all the more of you if she knew the
circumstances under which you left Major
Durant's house, and how you loved your own
mother. It is an honour and a credit to you,

JBetha, and every right-minded person would
say the same thing.'

Ah ! if loving my dear mother were the
passport for my respectability I should be fit
to dine with the Queen to-morrow cries
Beta, her bright eyes dimmed with tears of
recollection, ' for I did love her, Mr. Free,
oh, so dearly ! Sometimes I can hardly
realise, even now, that she is lying in the
cemetery at Kendal Green, with a great horrid
heavy stone pressing down upon her dear
breast. And what is worse than all, do you
know that my father is actually married
again-married to that Mrs. Wallerton, and
before my dear mother had been dead for
six months ! Mr. Free, if they were to offer
me all the riches of India, I could not go
back and live in that house now '

 Who could expect it of you V exclaims
Bobby, indignantly ;  but, Beta, all this has
nothing to do with grand mamma's fancy for
you. She likes you for yourself alone, and

would be the first to blame your father's conduct
if she knew of it.'

*Yes, yes, Mr. Free  but then  it is
what has come since, you see.'

Dont call me ''Mr. Frere/" he says
pleadingly. ' Can't you hear me calling you
'' Beta," and yet you are not angry with me.
Won't you take the hint V

But I don't know what to call you replies
Beta, timidly.

And I'm sure I don't know what to tell
you says the young fellow, ruefully. * At
home they call me '' Roberts' but that is
such a hideous name, and " Bobby " sounds
like a baby '

I don't think '' Robert " is hideous replies
Beta, ' but I like '' Bob " better.'

then call me 'rob." Do, Beta!' he
says eagerly.

I don't know. I must think about it ; it
sounds so familiar. Only I will use it for
once, Mr. Free, and say, " Thank you, Rob,

a thousand times for what you did for me
yesterday." I lay awake half the night
thinking of it, and realising what in my selfishness
I could not see at first, that you
risked your life to save mine.'

It was nothing, indeed ; indeed it was
nothing says Bobby in the utmost confusion,
as for a little while he holds the hand she
has placed in his own.

But it was everything, Bob. It was risking
the loss not only of your life, but of the
happiness of your father and grandmother 
the loss of this beautiful place, too, and all
the riches you are heir to,' replies Beta, as
she glances round upon the fair domain, laid
out in park and pasture-land and pleasure-gardens,
that surrounds them.

And you do not believe that they would
all be nothing tome  positively 720tez  without
soit,' says Bobby ; ' that the loss of the
fortune and the Court, and of my father and
grandmother into the bargain, would seem

trifles beside the awful loss of you. Beta,
if you had been drowned yesterday, I would
have drowned myself with you. In saving
your life I was only trying to save my
own.'

Oh, Mr. Free, I thought you were never
going to talk to me like that again !' exclaims
Beta, as she drags her hand away,
and reddens like a peony.

How can I help it when you speak to me
so kindly ? I told you in London what I
felt for you. Do you imagine those feelings
have altered since '? Why, I have been
miserable ever since I lost sight of you, and
now that I have met you again, I love you
ten thousand times better than before.'

Mr. Free, how very, very wrong of you !
Indeed you must forget all about me. If
you knew  knew  everything, you would
never speak to me like that.'

Why not ? What is there that I do not
know 1 I have been told one thing, Beta,

hj Mrs. Chapman, that you are compelled
to earn your own living as a teacher or companion
; and I suppose that is what you are
ashamed of. But / am not ashamed of it.
I think it is noble of you, and I want to save
you from the drudgery of such a life by
making you my wife. You said 'No " once,
but you won t say it again, Beta, wall you ?
You will consent to share Baron's Court, and
the riches, and the other things you seem to
think I care so much for, with me, and
make them of tenfold value in my eyes V

Beta does not know what to answer.
Confused visions of being saved from drowning,
and her homeless, friendless condition,
mixed up with her stage experiences, and
the deep devotion shining from Bobby's soft
brown eyes, render her almost incapable of
replying.

She feels as if she belonged to this heroic,
generous youth who has saved her life and
wishes to share all his possessions with her;

and the obstacle that stands in the way is not
her own want of love for him, but the awful
secret of the profession she has adopted.
Yet, with all her gratitude and desire to
reward the service he has rendered her,
Beta cannot help feeling a certain relief to
remember that as soon as he hears she is an
actress all question of marriage between
them will be at an end.

'Mr. Free !' she says hurriedly, after a short
pause, ' pray stop a minute and let me speak
to you ! You would not have said what you
have, if you had known all. Aunt Janie
did not tell you the truth. I am not a
teacher nor a companion. I coitlcl not be !
The life would kill me. / am an actress /'

What f ejaculates Bobby Free, with unmistakable
horror.

She could hardly have startled the young-man
more if she had told him she was a
murderess. He has only seen the stage and
the players on it from below the footlights,

and has enjoyed his dissipation, perhaps, all
the more from the belief that there is a vast
amount of wickedness behind them. He has
been brought up with the conventional notion
regarding the immorality of the theatre and
everything connected with it, and has no
idea that the private lives of many professional
performers are much purer than those
led by the votaries of fashion, lolling on their
silken sofas and playing at being vicious for
the mere sake of killing time.

'Yes,' replies Beta, very red but very
firm, ' I am an actress. I am engaged now
at the Royal Theatre at Buton ; and you
might have seen my name any day on the
bills as Elizabeth Selwyn. I am not playing
just now, because the pantomime is on, but I
may be recalled to work any day. I am
living in Buton with another actress, Miss
Montalambert, and I get a pound a week
for my salary,' continues Beta, determined
to do the things well whilst she is about it.

And so 3011 see, Mr. Free, you mustn't
talk to me again as you did just now, or
Lady Free will be very sorry she ever invited
me to Baron's Court.'

But the young man is not in a condition
to consider the feelings of his grandmother.


An actress on the stage !' he exclaims ;

what an awful desecration ! What was
Mrs. Chapman about to let you do such a
thing, Beta? Could Major Durant have
known of your intention ? Surely between
them they might have found some more respectable
occupation for you !'

Please don't speak of the theatrical profession
like that!' says Beta, proudly. ' It is
much more than a respectable occupation  it is
noble, grand, intellectual, and elevating; and I
feel honoured to be one of its members. Only
you do not think so, perhaps  and I am sure
that Sir Willoughby and Lady Free will
not  and therefore I am sorry that Mrs.

Matthews did not tell them I was an actress
before I came to Baron's Court.'

Does Mrs. Matthews know it, then V demands
Bobby, with surprise.

Of course Mrs. Matthews knows it. I
told Ada the first time we met. Why do
you ask me such a question, Mr. Free ?
Do you think that if she had known it, she
would not let me associate with Ada and
Ella V

No, no ! I thought nothing  I knew
nothing! Your news has taken away my
breath, so that I hardly know what I am
saying. But you will leave it, dearest Beta,
will you not ? You will promise me to leave
the stage and become my wife ?'

But how could I be your wife ? Your
grand mamma would never give her consent
to such a thing.'

I shall not ask my grand mamma ! Do
you suppose I am going to be tied to her
apron-string all my life ? I have had quite

enough of that already, thank you. I love
you, Beta ; and [ shall ask no one's consent
but yours. Will you marry me V
And live down here V

 Well, yes ! I suppose so. At least '

That would be very pleasant, wouldn't
it ? particularly if your father and grandmother
were both angry with us,' says
Beta, with a merry laugh.

The laugh grates instinctively upon his
ear. No Ofirl who loved him would lauofh at
such a moment.

Well, somewhere else, then !' he answers,
pettishly ; and then becoming serious adds :
You see, the fact is I am dependent on my
father until my grandmother's death ; and he
has been foolish enough not to bring me upto
any profession, but I am sure it will be
all right if he sees that we want to marry
each other. He will make me an allowance,
and then we can live where we like, and consult
no one's wishes but our own.'

T Wouldn't live on charity !' says Beta,
shaking her head.

Do you call an allowance from my father
charity V

Yes, it would be just the same thing.
We should become dependent on his pleasure.
No, Mr. Free ! I can work for myself, and
I mean to do so till my life's end. So
please don't think anything more of me

I shall think of you till I die !' says
Bobby, passionately ; ' and I will never give
you up. Beta, if my father gives his
consent to our marriage, will you marry
mer

He will never give his consent, Bob !
It is very kind of you to wish it  but it
cannot be.'

The young man stops suddenly in the pathway
and confronts her.

Beta ! look me in the face ! If everything
goes right, will you engage yourself to
marry me V

If you will let me remain in my profession
till you have enough money of your own
to support me on.'

I will let you do anything you like. I
will work my own fingers to the bone till I
have made enough money to take you off
the stage and give you a lovely little house
all of your own. And then will you marry
me, Beta ?  then will you marry me V

His earnestness overcomes all the girl's
scruples, and her eyes fill with grateful
tears.

Oh, Rob ! you are very, very good !' she
reiterates ; ' and yesterday you saved my
life. Yes, indeed I will marry you, when
that time comes, and if you still love me then
as you do now.'

Promise me, dear !'

I promise!' answers Beta, solemnly; and
then Bobby lifts his hat from his head, and
stooping down, their young lips meet in a
fresh and innocent kiss.

VOL. II. 2]

IT WILL BE AS I CHOOSE.'

Were Beta less inexperienced in the affairs
of love, that kiss would rouse her suspicions.
It is cheerful and quiet, as the kiss a sister
bestows upon a favourite brother ; it awakens
no new troublous feelings in her breast of an
unknown future dawning upon her ; it is the
kiss of gratitude, and has not the faintest
essence of passion in its flavour. But Beta
in such matters is a child  as unsophisticated
as a girl of twelve ; and in her eyes the kiss
is all right  just the sort of pledge that a
young man who has asked her to marry him
would require at her hands, but not so nice

to her own taste as a hearty embrace from
Kate Montalambert or Ada Matthews.
The kiss throws Bobby off his mental
equilibrium : it leaves Beta as collected as if
she had been kissing a puppy dog.

I am afraid your grand mamma will be very
angry she says, as soon as he releases her.

I am sure she will be no such things :
or if she should feel a little startled at first, I
will soon make everything square between
us. Leave me to tell her after you are gone,
Beta ; and tomorrow morning you will seeme
posting over to Black Abbottss with a
letter of congratulation in my hand.'

Lady Free will want me to give up the
stage says Beta.

And you ivill, will you not V demands
the lover, eagerly.

The girl shakes her head.

I don't think I can, Rob, not until I
have done something to make myself remembered.
Perhaps you don't know what a

212

strong feeling ambition is ! I yearn to be
famous. If I had gone on living my quiet
life at home with my dear mother, I might
not have felt that yearning, but I have
tasted the taste of it, and I shall never
rest now until I have done something worth
doing

I will never thwart you in any of your
inclinations,' replies Bobby, fervently ;  only
Beta, when you are my wife, you will
promise to live at home quietly with me

Yes ! when I am your wife replies the
girl, sedately.

As she is about to step into the Matthews'
carriage that afternoon to return to Black
Abbottss, Beta receives Lady Free's farewell
embrace with a degree of compunction.
She foresees all the objections her ladyship
will raise against her, as soon as ever she
hears of her profession, and feels as if she had
no right to allow herself to be kissed under
false pretences.

Bobby is most anxious to accompany her
to Black Abbottss in the carriage ; but his
laudable intention, to Botha's great relief, is
happily overruled by his grandmother, who
requires his attendance in another direction.

So the girl is permitted to return alone,
whilst she ponders, neither with pleasure nor
pain, on the marvellous fact that she has
pledged herself at some day  indistinct,
hazy, and far off in the indistinguishable
future  to become the wife of Robert
Free.

The Matthew girls receive her back with
noisy demonstrations of delight, whilst their
mother expresses a formal hope that she
is properly grateful for Lady Free's exceeding
goodness in helping to avert the consequences
of an accident that was due to
sheer carelessness.

 I never did approve of young ladies
skating she says, primly, ' and I never shall.
In my opinion it is a very unfeminine exercise ;

and after the misadventure of yesterday, it
will not be with my consent that Ada and
Ella ever again venture on the ice.'

Oh ! what a wretch you were to tumble
in,' cries Ada, as she bears Beta away.
'Now we shall have a nice business to get
mamma's leave to use our skates again.'

What a wretch Ella was to tumble on the
top of me, you mean,' replies Beta, smiling.
I should never have gone in by myself ; and
I am sure I regret it as much as you can do,'
she adds, with a little sigh, remembering the
event which followed her rescue.

She consoles herself, however, with the
idea that Sir Willoughby and Lady Free
will certainly refuse their consent to Rob's
proposal, and then there will be an end
to the matter, and no one much the worse
that it has taken place.

In the morning, however, soon after breakfast,
she is startled by the announcement
that Lady Free has already driven over from

Baron's Court, and is closeted with Mrs.
Matthews in that lady's private room,

Beta flies at once to her bedroom and
locks herself in. She quite expected to see
Bobby Free arrive with a long face to
announce the failure of all his hopes ; but
what can this sudden irruption on the part
of his grandmother portend ? Why should
the old lady take the trouble to drive over at
eleven o'clock in the morning to tell Mrs.
Matthews that Bobby has made a fool of
himself? 'It cannot be thinks Beta, with
a wildly throbbing heart that should warn
her of the dangerous step she is taking  'it
cannot possibly be that Lady Free approves
of her grandson's intentions, and has come to
confirm them.'

As the thought flashes through her mind
the girl turns pale, and feels as though she
were surrounded by a net of which Sir
Willoughby and Lady Free held the string.
She listens with bated breath to each step

that mounts the stairs, fearing lest it should
be that of a messenger sent to summon her
to the presence of her friends. But an hour,
which appears like twelve to the waiting girl,
passes away ; and to her relief she hears the
rumble of wheels upon the gravelled drive,
and watches Lady Free whilst she is
handed into the carriage by her footman, and
driven rapidly towards Baron's Court again.

After all, thinks Beth a, feeling as though
a load had been suddenly lifted from her
bosom, perhaps Mr. Free has had no
opportunity to broach the subject to his
grandmother, and she only visited Black
Abbottss upon business of her own.

She is gleefully re-arranging her dress and
hair before going down stairs again, when a
tap sounds upon her door, and a servant
informs her that her mistress requests her
presence in her private room.

Once more all Beta's fears are aroused,
and determined to learn the worst, she runs

down quickly and finds herself in the presence
of Mrs. Matthews and her daughters. The
aspect of affairs is not promising.

Ella stands at one of the windows, with
tears trickling down her face, which she
wipes furtively away : Ada looks sheepish
and uneasy : and their mother occupies the
hearth rug, with the air of an inquisitor.

Beta perceives at once that she is had up
for judgment, and braces her nerves accordingly.


'Will you oblige me. Miss Durant, by
taking a chair V commences Mrs. Matthews
stiffly. ' I have something of importance to
say to you.'

Thank you, Mrs. Matthews, but I prefer
to stand,' replies Beta, in the same tone of
voice.

Lady Free has been here this morning
to speak to me on an unpleasant subject 
a most unpleasant subject,' continues her
hostess.

*I know all about it, madam,' says the
girl. ' It was to tell you that Mr. Free
proposed to me yesterday, and that I accepted
him  that is, conditionally on his
friends' approval ; but I really don't care
whether I marry him or not, and it is quite a
matter of indifference to me what Lady Free
thinks upon the subject.'

But this is not the intelligence that Mrs.
Matthews was about to communicate to
Beta, and the news takes her completely by
surprise. She has long looked upon young
Free as a very suitable match for one of
her own daughters, and experienced more
than one pang yesterday, at being compelled
to leave so powerful an attraction asher
pretty guest at Baron's Court without
the counter-balancing' influence of either
Ada or Ella. And to hear that the opportunity
was taken advantage of in so mean
a manner fills her maternal breast with gall
and wormwood.

Proposed to you /' she says rudely ; ' I
don't believe it !'

You don't believe it !' echoes Beta ;
and what cause have I given you to doubt
my word V

The very best of causes, Miss Durant 
that you have come under my roof and
accepted my hospitality as an impostor.
The painful intelligence that Lady Free
considered it her duty to speak to me this
morning is  that you are a common actress.'

The term rouses Beta's ire. She confronts
her accuser with an erect figure and a
flashing eye.

It is untrue ! I am an actress, but I am
not common, any more than Ada or Ella, or
yourself. And whatever I may be, I used
no deception in the matter, madam ! You
knew of my profession before you ever invited
me to Black Abbottss.'

*I did no such thing,' returns Mrs.
Matthews shrilly. ' Do you suppose it

possible that, had I done so, I woiild have
asked you to stay under the same roof with
my daughters  my pure innocent girls, who
have never seen the inside of such a polluted
place as a theatre  that I would have
allowed you, reeking of the stage and all its
foul accessories, to kneel down in prayer with
us morning and evening  and to mix with
the ladies and gentlemen who enter our
house, confident that they will meet nothing
here that can contaminate them.'

Ada !' says Beta, turning to her friend,
do you mean to tell me that you never informed
your mother that I am on the stage V

Ada, who has been winking and making
signs at Beta all this time, in the hope of
preventing a betrayal of the deception she
has practised, finding that her attempts are
futile, takes refuge in a cowardly prevarication.


No, Beta ; because I didn't quite understand.'


'You did not understand that I am an
actress by profession ? It is untrue ! I told
you so plainly the first time we met, and
both you and Ella understood me perfectly.'


Miss Durant ! I cannot allow you to
accuse my daughters of falsehood or deception.
It may be the practice in the miserable
calling to which you belong, but they
have been brought up, thank heaven I in a
very different manner, and do not even know
the names of the vices with which you must
unhappily be familiar

I am not aware what I have done to
deserve this insult at your hands, Mrs.
Matthews !'

'You have intruded your company upon
me and my friends, knowing that had we
been aware of your profession, you would
never have been admitted within these doors.
How I shall make my peace with dear Lady
Free I hardly know. She was too much

shocked and wounded to be able to listen to
reason, and I could scarcely persuade her
that I am as blameless in the matter as herself.'


Nevertheless, dear Lady Free's" grandson
is most anxious to make me his wife 
notwithstanding my calling and all his
grandmother's wounded feelings,' says Beta,
sarcastically.

It can never be  it is impossible  it
would be an outrage on society cries Mrs.
Matthews.

It will be as I choose' says Beta, proudly,
and as Mr. Free chooses, and we shall not
ask the opinion of his grandmother or
society on the subject. Yesterday I said
Yes ! to-day I say No. Since Lady Free
has chosen to insult me through you, Mrs.
Matthews, you may tell her in return that if
I do not live to take her place, it will be
only because I consider myself too good for
it. I am a gentleman's daughter  nothing

can undo that. I have been reared and
educated like a gentlewoman, and have all a
gentlewoman's tastes and inclinations, and if I
have chosen a profession that numbers some
amongst its numbers that are not all they
should be, I have done no more than if I
had become a countess, under the idea that
all the aristocracy are virtuous. I shall
leave your house within the hour ; but if
both our lives are spared you shall live to
blush for the day when you turned me with
insult from your doors

I could not knowingly sleep under the
same roof with an actress replies the virtuous
Mrs. Matthews ;  there is no knowing
now how far the evil may have spread, nor
what contamination you may not have communicated
to my poor innocent girls.'

 have not taught them to tell falsehoods,'
replies Beta, as she leaves the room.

Ada slinks after her, and attempts to excuse
her own conduct.

'Please don't add to my poor opinion of
you replies Beta coldly. ' If you did not
positively affirm that you had told your
mother of my profession, you insinuated as
much, and that is quite as bad. It is to your
duplicity and Ella's that I owe the affront
that has been offered me. I am glad to be
going back to friends, who, whatever their
calling may be, are at least true and honest
in their dealings with me.'

So she packs up her box, poor child, and
quits the house where she has been made so
much of, cast out again upon the world  a
pariah  because her profession and her virtue
are, in the eyes of some people, irreconcilable
I She reaches Buton about four o'clock,
and is received with open arms by Kate
Montalambert.

My dear child ! how fortunate I am at
home. Such work as I have had during
your absence you never saw. Those troublesome
fellows found out I was alone, dear, you

know, and they regularly besieged the house.
I have had to run away to get rid of
them, and take my tea with Miss Cheney
over the wa3\ But this afternoon I had
determined to remain at home. It must
have been instinct ! And I have shrimps
too  such fine ones ! I could not resist
buying them ! And how glad I am to see
you again. But you're not looking quite
the thing, Beta ! Well ! I don't wonder at
it. Fancy being a whole month away from
the theatre ! I should be dead in half the
time. And you're not back a day too soon,
either. I expect uncle would have sent a
telegram tomorrow. The pantomime is on
its last legs, dear ! Time, too, you know. It
will have run the nine wrecks on Saturday,
and Miss Coralieie Cuthbert opens with
borneo and Juliet" the week after next.
Uncle wants you for the first piece, Beta.
You and I are to play in " Naval Engage-vol.
II. 22

ments" together. Yours is a pretty part,
and plenty of action. I'm sure you 11 like

it;

What I like best is to be with you again,
Kate replies Beta, as she nestles in her
friend's arms ; ' I wish I had never gone
away  I haven't enjoyed myself much. The
theatre is the only place that seems to me
like home now.'

And the more you see of it, the more
you'll love it, my dear,' says Miss Monta-lambert,
heartily. ' You never met an actress
yet that cared for moping in a house. When
once you've joined in the work and shared the
applause, you can't get the taste out of your
mouth again. It's meat and drink to you 
and when it fails you, you die ! At least, I
know I shall !  but what is this, child ?
You're not crying, surely !'

Only a little,' pleads Beta ; * I am tired
and  and  disappointed, and rather worried.

Don't talk about it, Kate ! It is over
now. Let us have our tea and shrimps and
go down to the theatre and forget all our
troubles ! I shall be quite pleased to see the
dear old pantomime again. I was so sorry to
hear that Mr. Rodney had hurt his leg in the
trap ! And how is Cissy Holies getting
through the measles ? She must have been
a loss to you, for I think she was the prettiest
girl in the ballet V

Oh ! she is all right again, and coming
back to us next week. Rodney's leg is likely
to be a much longer business ! Yes ; Cissy
has a nice face, but very thick ankles, my
dear. It was always a marvel to me how
uncle could put her in the front row.'

And so Mrs. Potter rambles on, of parts,
pieces, and persons, and Beta is discreet
enough to tell her nothing of the little episode
which she has just passed through. Bat it
rankles in her innocent breast through the

222

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILUNOtS

ensuing night, and makes her pure heart ache,
and gives her the first experience of a desire
for revenge which has ever entered into her
girth Hfe.

you'll never marry him !'

Bobby Free does not give her time to get
the better of this feeling. Having had a
stormy interview with his grandmother  an
interview during which the old lady hardly
recognises the shy, obedient young man
whom she has trained so carefully  he mounts
his horse and rides furiously first to Black
Abbottss and thence to Buton. He calls at
the lodgings in Tavistock Gate, when Beta
and Kate Montalambert are at the theatre,
and without leaving his name, retreats to an
hotel, only to make his reappearance at an
early hour the following morning. Beta

enters the little sitting-room to find it already
occupied by a young man, crimson with
excitement and trembling with eagerness ;
whilst Mrs. Potter, hearing that a gentleman
is below waiting to see ' Miss Selwyn is
discreet enough to remain in her own apartment
until the interview is ended.

You need not tell me your news !' exclaims
Beta, as she advances with outstretched
hand to greet her cavalier, ' I have heard it
already. Lady Free was closeted with
Mrs. Matthews for an hour yesterday, the
upshot of which was that I was insulted so
grossly that I was obliged to quit the house.'
 But not by my grandmother's desire,
Beta, rest assured of that,' replies Bobby,
eagerly ;  she was dreadfully angry when I
told her of your profession, but she could
never forget that she is a lady  either to you
or anybody else.'

I knew nothing about it, but what I heard
from Mrs. Matthews,' says Beta, ' but she

said quite enough about * vice," and '' contamination,"
and '* defilement," to make me
understand that Lady Free had not spared
my calling or myself. But won't you sit
down, Mr. Free ? There is no need to tire
ourselves by standing.'

Why do you call me ' Mr. Free " V says
Bobby mournfully, as he ventures to touch
her hand ;  surely, you will not cast me
off, Beta, because my grandmother has not
proved as agreeable as she might be V

It becomes your duty to cast me off,'
returns Beta, proudly. Yet she hopes
just for the sake of thwarting Lady
Free and Mrs. Matthews  that he will
not.

Cast you off ! 1 will' never do it to my
dying day  not if you were to send me from
you now and for ever,' exclaims the young
man fervently.  Oh, Beta ! you little
know how much I care for you, if you
imagine that my feelings and intentions are

to be swayed by the wishes of my grandmother
! Let her go to '

Hush,' cries Beta, laughing,  what were
you going to say 1 Please don't take it into
your head that because I am an actress I amused
to that sort of language. But seriously,
Bob, you must think of your own people.
You are dependent on them, remember, and
it will not do to oo against them !'

I will never give you up,' replies Bob,
doggedly ; and Beta perceives for the first
time that there is a vast amount of determination
lying beneath the bashfulness of
this young man's outward demeanour. * If
you turned me from your door, Beta, and
ordered me never to see you again, I would
still live single and alone, for love of you, and
keep on hoping that time might alter your
feelings and incline you to reward my constancy.
Because I love you  do you understand
the word ? I love yoUj and no other
woman shall ever be mv wife.'

Dear Bob !' says the girl, softly. His
fervour touches her heart  it is so sweet to
the young and lonely to be loved ! ' But
you mustn't quarrel with your friends for me,
dear. Think how unhappy I should be to
know that I had made you so.'

I can never be unhappy whilst you care
for me. Beta, you told me yesterday that
when I could support you you would leave
the stage and be my wife. Will you stick
to your promise now V

Yes ; if you wish me to do so.'

Then nothing can have the power to make
me miserable. My only fear has been lest
you should feel the insult that has been
offered you too keenly to speak to me again !
But if you will promise to wait till I am ina
position to marry you, why, then the day
may come sooner than either of us think
for.'

Oh, I will promise you that gladly says
the girl. She has been dreading lest he

should ask her to marry him at once; and to
wait till he has sufficient money to marry
on  which means, in her ideas, to wait until
Sir Willoughby and Lady Free are in their
graves  seems to put off the evil day to a
time too far off to be worth speculating on.
'I will gladly wait for you she repeats;
and now, Eob, tell me the whole business.
I have already heard what Lady Free thinks
of my profession, so you need not fear wounding
my feelings.'

Well, they were awfully put out about it,
there is no doubt,' says Bobby, ruefully ; * not
because I wanted to marry you, but because
you are on the stage, and they ordered me
never to see you again. But I reminded
them that I am of age, and told them that i
you do not become Lady Free nobody else
shall.'

Bravo, E-ob !' cries Beta, clapping her
hands.

 And then my father talked a lot of nonsense

about religion and the stage and mes-alliances,
but I told him that he had no
business to throw me in the way of a girl
like you without first finding out about your
profession and so forth, and that he had no
one but himself to thank for the consequences.
And I reminded grand mamma of the fuss
she made over you, and how she had praised
you for your looks and manners and good
breeding ; but it was all of no use, Beta.
The fact of your being an actress has blotted
out every good thing that went before it

Is it not unjust V says Beta.

It is wicked, infamous, cruel 1' exclaims
her lover. ' But it can make no difference
to me, darling ; and if you will consider
yourself engaged to be my wife I will be true
and faithful to you to our lives' end.'

then I will be engaged to you,' says
Beta, stretching out her hand to meet his ;
and I will try all I can to rise in my profession
and make a great name for myself,

and then the day may come when Sir Willoughby
and Lady Free will be proud,
instead of ashamed, to see you married to an
actress.'

It will be the proudest day of my life,
whatever it may be of theirs replies the
enamoured Bobby ; and then Miss Monta-lambert
is summoned and introduced to
Beta's Jicmce, and the three sit down to
breakfast together, and one at least is supremely
happy.

But that one is not Beta. She never
asks her lover what are his plans or prospects
for the future. She is content to know
that he considers himself pledged to her, and
that Sir Willoughby and Lady Free and the
Matthews' will, in due course, be informed of
the fact, and see that her personal influence
and attractions have had the power to outweigh
all other considerations. It is some
relief to Beta's revengeful inclinations to
feel that she has succeeded in falsifying the

prophecies of her late hostess, and proving
that she did not tell a falsehood in order to
glorify herself.

As soon as Bobby Free has taken his
departure she is naturally subjected to a
great deal of * chaff ' on the part of the
lively Miss Montalambert ; but it is much
easier to bear than it would have been, had
her heart been really concerned in the
matter.

Oh, you sly puss !' cries Miss Kate ; ' so
this is the work you have been so quietly
engaged upon, is it ?  catching a rich young
man for yourself! Well, he is not handsome,
my dear, but he looks the gentleman allover
; and I dare say he'll give you lots of
nice presents.'

I wish you wouldn't talk in that way,
Kate. I don't want him to give me presents,
and he is not likely to do so either ; for he
has no money of bis own.'

No money, my dear ! Nonsense ! and

riding that beautiful horse. And did you
see his suit and his necktie and his gloves ?
Men can't dress in that style who have no
money

He is quite dependent on his father,
nevertheless.'

Well, he'll screw the money out of him,
then ; and don't you be a fool, Beta, and say
you don't want any presents. Take everything
he'll give you. How are you to getup
a stock of jewellery else ? It is not necessary
to marry the man because he buys you
a few trinkets. La, child ! I've been engaged
dozens of times. I'm always engaged when
I have the opportunity. It's so convenient :
someone to take you out on Sundays and
pay your cabs and buy your gloves, and so
forth ; and if you're engaged to him no one
can say it's wrong. I think you're very wise
to have engaged yourself to Mr. Free. It
will be a protection for you in the theatre,
dear, and keep the men at a distance. But

I don't think you'll marry him, Beta. I
have considerable powers of prevision, and I
don't think Mr. Free is the sort of man for
you. All very well to be engaged to, and
so forth, but you'll never be his wife, my
dear ; you may take your oath of that !'

But I have promised never to be the wife
of anyone else,' says Beta, seriously.

Oh, you ridiculous little creature I You
look as solemn over it as if it was a matter
of life and death. Well, never mind, my
dear ; we'll wait and see. You say one
thing and I say another, but I wish I had a
thousand pounds depending on my proving
to be right !'

But, from that day  although Bobby
makes his appearance about twice a week, to
sit for a couple of hours by Botha's side, or
to watch her from the wings as she goes
through the drudgery of a rehearsal, and a
pearl ring appears on the third finger of her
left hand as a pledge of the engagement

entered into between them  her new condition
does not make much alteration in the
girl's life.

As soon as the first sore feelings with
regard to the conduct of Lady Free and
Mrs. Matthews have faded from her mind,
Beta throws herself with renewed interest
into her theatrical studies, and seldom remembers
during Bobby's absence that she is
enofaofed to him at all. The o-reat 'star
Miss Coralieie Cuthbert, has arrived from
London, and is turning the whole theatre
topsy turvy with her airs and graces.
Nothing in Buton is o'ood enough for Miss
Cuthbert, and she expresses her opinions
freely. She is one of those ' stars ' who, with
real talent, has so large a bump of self-esteem,
that praise and adulation, instead of
spurring her on to further efforts, turns her
brain, until she is odious to herself and
others.

She is a large, fair, handsome woman, who

reached her present position, more on account
of her beauty than because her genius
is exalted above that of others. But it would
be difficult to convince Miss Coralieie Cuthbert
of the fact. She stands on the stage during
the hours of rehearsal, clad in satin and sealskin
and velvet, ordering about prompter,
scene-shifters, carpenters, and dressers, as
though they were so many ' properties * 
ordering about even the stage-manager and
the great Mr. Cheyne himself, and making
everybody in the theatre miserable. As for
the company and the musicians, Miss Cuthbert
puts therii in their proper places the very
first day ; for, according to her account, every
instrument is out of tune, and not a man nor
woman understands the business of the piece.
Romeo ' spoils all her best scenes ; * Mer-curio
' is a fool ; the ' Friar ' mumbles ; the
Nurse ' doesn't know her words ; and as for
poor ' Lady Capulet,' she is struck speechless
by the impatience and contempt shown to
VOL. II. 23

her efforts, and retires to her dressing-room,
crestfallen and in tears.

Never,' she exclaims piteously to Beta,
never in the whole course of my experience
have I been so insulted and trodden on ! /
not able to speak Shakespeare ! Why, Beta,
I played " Prince Arthur " when I was only
ten, and as for " Lady Capulet," and " Celia,"
and the " Player Queen," I have them all at
my fingers' ends. Whatever can have induced
uncle to engage that detestable woman
for our '' lead " I cannot imagine. I think
she is hideous with that orange-coloured
hair ; and she speaks so low, her voice will
be inaudible to the gallery.'

Beta cannot help smiling at her friend's
distress, though she tries to comfort her.

Never mind, Kate dear,' she says soothingly
; * it will all be right on Saturday 
you'll see. Miss Cuthbert has a very unpleasant
manner, but we need not have much
to say to her ; and as to her voice, she was

reserving it, she said, because she has a slight
cold

I don't believe it,' retorts Miss Kate,
spitefully. ' I think she is a very over-rated
person, and just as likely to break down as
any of us  and I hope she will  for the sooner
uncle packs her back to 'wherever she came
from, the better.'

But Miss Kate's hopes are not fulfilled.

Miss Coralieie Cuthbert is really clever ; and
as Beta watches her play * Juliet,' on the
night of her debut in Buton, she thinks she
has never seen any acting that affected her
so much.

Miss Cuthbert is too bios and well developed
for ' Juliet.' Was it not the elder Kean
who said that no woman could play the part
properly until she was three times the right
age ? But she is splendidly handsome, and
has been well-drilled. There is no room for
envy or malice in Beta's breast, as she
regards her ; she feels nothing but admit



ration for the lovely woman in her lovely-dresses,
and with her mouth filled with the
loveliest words. She follows her every movement
like a cat watching a mouse ; drinks in
the modulation of each sentence that falls
from her lips, and takes note of the slightest
change in the expression of her face. And
this, not for one night, but many.

 Komeo and Juliet ' was announced for
only one week ; but it is received with so
much enthusiasm by the inhabitants of Bu-ton,
that it is advertised to run a fortnight.
And Beta is taking a fresh lesson every
night, from the contemplation of Miss
Cuthbert's movements and modulations.
But though the ' star ' is the talk of the
town, she remains as unpopular as before
behind the scenes. She is a person who can
never see the policy of making friends with
those beneath her in station, but on whose
services she is greatly dependent for her
success. Consequently, scarcely a hand in the

theatre will move to her assistance, unless
expressly ordered to do so ; and she has
constantly to appeal to Mr. Cheyne to
support her authority.

On the last day of ' Romeo and Juliet,'
Miss Cuthbert is occupied during the morning
with a rehearsal of ' As You Like It
which is to be produced on the following
evening. It is a dark gloomy day out of
doors, and still darker and gloomier within
the theatre. When the company assemble,
the stage has not yet been cleared of the
debris of the previous night, and Miss
Cuthbert puts herself into a towering passion
because the gasman is not at hand to turn
on the gas at the main.

I have sent for him to come at once. He
only lives a few doors off,' says ' Orlando,'
trying to assuage the storm.

He ought to have been here to await
my coming. I never met with such disrespect
and inattention in my life. Where

is Mr. Cheyne V exclaims Miss Cuthbert,
loudly.

 Mr. Cheyne won't be here to-day, miss,'
says a passing carpenter, with a grin of satisfaction.
 He ain't well, and he's keeping his
beds

Nonsense ! he must be here ! I won't
allow the rehearsal to go on without him.
There is not a soul in the place that has the
slightest authority but himself I was never
in such an ill-regulated theatre in my life !'

I beg your pardon, Miss Cuthbert,' remarks
Kate Montalambert, coming forward.
In my uncle's absence 1 am his representative
here, and have quite as much authority
as himself ; therefore, if you have any particular
request to make, perhaps you will be
good enough to notify it to me.'

Perhaps you will wait till you're spoken
to,' replies Miss Cuthbert, rudely, as she
turns her back upon the speaker. Then she
begins to run about the stage, shouting to the

scene-shifters to do this  that  or the other,
whilst the rest of the company, with many an
unflattering comment on her behaviour, watch
her proceedings. Suddenly they see her trip
and fall. She has missed her footing over a
rope, and been thrown against a portion of
the scenery. The men rush to her assistance,
but not a woman stirs.

She may tumble all over the place before
I'd lift a hand to help her,' says Miss Mon-lambert
; ' and if she's hurt herself, so
much the better.'

However, she alters her tone when the
fact is made patent that Miss Coralieie Cuthbert
has hurt herself very much indeed.
Her foot catching in the rope turned under
her as she fell, and her ankle is severely
sprained. Private spite is one thing ; but it
is a costly luxury when it has to be gratified
at the expense of business.

Miss Montalambert sends at once for the
nearest doctor, whilst the gentlemen of the

party carry the groaning ' star ' into the
green-room, and deposit her upon a sofa.
The medical man is soon in attendance, but
his verdict is very unfavourable. The ankle
is seriously injured, and the complete rest of
several days, if not weeks, is inevitable.

You had much better have broken your
leg at once,' he says, as consolation to Miss
Cuthbert. ' I could have mended it in half
the time for you.'

And then he bandages the sprained ankle,
and directs them to have the suffering lady
conveyed to her hotel and put to bed,
where he will visit her aoain in the course
of the afternoon. And so the fallen ' star *
is taken home, and the remainder of the
company look sadly at each other, and
wonder what the issue of the accident will
be. What is to become of ' Romeo and
Juliet' on that evening? What of *As
You Like It on the following night ?

CAN I DO IT V

Miss Montalambert sets off at once to give
her uncle the first intimation of the accident
that has occurred, and Beta walks home by
herself. She is too unused as yet to theatrical
life to be able to imagine what Mr.
Cheyne can possibly do in such a dilemma,
and visions of the theatre closing, and everybody
being thrown out of work  or the
pantomime being put on the stage again  or
the whole company summoned at once to getup
a new piece by seven o'clock that evening,
chase each other vaguely through her mind.
She is still lingering in her bedroom, busying

herself with the affairs of her wardrobe,
when Miss Montalambert bursts upon her
solitude.

Home already, Kate !' exclaims Beta in
surprise, ' wh}'', how quick you have been !
What does Mr. Cheyne say ? What will he
dor

He has come to tell you that himself, my
dear; uncle came back with me. He is
waiting to see you in the parlour !'

Waiting to see me V echoes Beta, struck
by a certain look of important mystery in
her friend's eyes.

Yes ! He's got something to say to you.
Come along and see him at once. We have
no time to spare !'

The manager of a theatre is as a king
amongst his subjects to the members of his
company, and Beta hurries to execute the
royal commands.

Well, my dear !' says Mr. Cheyne condescendingly
as she enters the sitting-room

with Mrs. Potter, ' this is a nice sort of
business, isn't it ? Every stall booked for
to-night, and four boxes bespoken for the
Mayor of Buton and his party ; and Miss
Coralieie bandaged up in her bed, and not
likely to be able to put her foot to the ground
for a fortnight !'

 Oh, Mr. Cheyne ! it is the most unfortunate
thing that could have happened.
What shall we do ? And you have had to
leave your bed also  I hope you will take no
harm !'

I shall be right enough, my dear, if
you'll do your best to help us out of the
difficulty.'

< what can I do ? Oh, Mr. Cheyne,
you must know you have but to command
me. Will you put the pantomime on again. ?
Do you wish me to take a part ? I have
seen it so often that I think I could play any
of the women's characters without a rehearsal.'


No, no, child ! that's not the way we do
business in Buton. The public have been
led to expect they will have " Romeo and
Juliet " this evening, and ' Komeo and
Juliet " they must have. But to come to the
point ! I want you to play Juliet !'

If he had told the girl that he had a passport
ready signed and sealed to pass her in
at once to heaven, without further trouble,
she could hardly have become more agitated.
Her eyes dilate : her lips part : her colour
comes and goes. She stands before him,
crimson and silent, with the unshed tears
standing in her eyes from astonishment, excitement,
and delight.

What do you think of that, dear V says
Miss Kate, as she puts her arm round the
girl's waist and kisses her.

Can I do it f demands Beta in a tone of
awe.

Well, that remains to be proved says the
more practical manager ; * but I think you

can scramble through it, if you try, and it'll
be a relief to me if you will. I believe you
know the part.'

Every word of it, Mr. Cheyne  but it is
so great  so unexpected an attempt. Suppose
I should fail !'

Oh ! we've got no such word as that in
the Buton dictionary,' he answers somewhat
roughly. 'ewe shan't expect you to lord it
over them in the style of the great Coralieie
you know ; but if you'll do your best, child,
why J shall be satisfied, and that is all you've
got to care about.'

Oh ! I will do my best  my very best !'
cries Beta excitedly ; ' and Kate will help
me  won't you, dear Kate ?  and I think I
know all the stage business, I have seen Miss
Cuthbert play it so many times  and as for
the words, they are nothing  but to-night,
this very night  it seems awfully sudden.
Is it not very presumptuous in me to undertake
it V

'Nonsense! I'm the best judge of that,
my dear; and remember, you will only
appear as a substitute. " Miss Selwyn has,
at the last moment, kindly undertaken," etc,
etc, so you need not have so many qualms
on the subject. And now that is settled, I
must be going, for we must call a rehearsal at
four o'clock to run through your scenes. Kate,
my dear, you must see after Miss Selwyn's
dresses. The wardrobe-keeper has a very
handsome set that were made for Thornton
last year, but they'll require alteration for
this child. Good-morning, my dear. Don't
forget. Rehearsal at four;' and the good-natured
manager leaves them to themselves.

Beta turns to confront her friend.

Oh, Kate ! is it possible V

I should just think it was, my dear ; and
what's more, I'm proud to say I did it. As
soon as ever that wretch Cuthbert tumbled
over the rope, I thought, '* Here's an opening
for Beta," and off I rushed to uncle, and

persuaded him to put you on. And you'll
make a great success, I am sure of it ; and
you'll be the prettiest Juliet that ever trod on
Buton boards

 Oh, Kate ! how good and kind it was*
of you to think of me. But why didn't you
get the part for yourself, dear ? You have
been much longer on the stage than I have,
and are a more experienced actress. Surely
you are fitter to take it than I can possibly
be

Mrs. Potter blushes  actually and truly
blushes through her * make up ' at her ingenuous
friend's simplicity.

No, dear ! I'm not I Of course I could
play the part if I chose, well enough, Uncle
would have put me in it at once, but I
wouldn't have accepted it. *' Juliet " is supposed
to be very young, and requires an
unformed fissure, and mine is altogether too
ripe for the purpose. Gentlemen prefer ripe
figures naturally  that is in private life 

but on the stage, one thinks more of the
character than the individual ; and a straight
up and down figure like you, is always best
for Juliet.'

By which speech it will be seen that Mrs.
Potter, with all her love for Beta, is not
quite above the little jealousies of sex.

If a straight up and doivn figure were all
that is necessary to portray the character of
Shakespeare's sweetest heroine, then indeed
would she be admirably fitted for the part,
for the ' ripeness ' on which she lays such
stress, is so admirably concealed that no one
but herself has ever yet discovered it. But
no one is perfect in this world, and poor Mrs.
Potter has her weaknesses in common with
the rest of us. Yet, though she is so certain
she could play Juliet herself, there is no deception
in her hearty desire to see Beta
shine in it.

And Beta does shine beyond the anticipations
of her kindest friends. The occupants

of the stalls and boxes that evening are
greatly disappointed to find slips of paper in
their seats announcing the lamentable news
of Miss Cuthbert's accident, and the fact that
Miss Selwyn will take her place. They
growl to themselves and others, and vote the
whole thing a delusion and a snare, and wish
they had not been such fools as to book their
places beforehand. But when the curtain
rises and Beth a steps upon the stage, their
attention is first arrested and then enchained.
A sweeter Juliet in appearance never graced
the English boards. Beta's figure possesses
all the willowy grace and suppleness which
we attribute to the daughter of the Capulet,
and her lovely face, with its cleanly cut
features and beaming eyes, secures her an
ovation directly she appears, which continues
at intervals throughout the evening.

Mr. Cheyne, watching his debutante from
a staofe-box, is amazed at the force and delicacy
of her acting.

VOL. II. 24

By George !* he exclaims,  she only wants
experience to beat the Cuthbert into fits !'

He has seen the girl perform in farces and
melodramas for several months past, but
never in a part calculated to draw out her
tragic powers.  But she can never go
through the death-scene with equal force
he thinks, working himself to a marvellous
pitch of excitement at the success of his experiment.
* She is wonderful in the love-passages,
but the poisoning scene will stump
her!'

Yet it does not. It would be ridiculous
to affirm that this young girl of seventeen
plays like a Siddons or a Fanny Kemble,
but she acts her part quite as well as they
would have done at the same tender age, and
the continued applause which she evokes is a
proof of the power she wields over her
audience.

Mr. Cheyne chuckles at each fresh outburst
of approbation, but Beta herself

hardly hears it. She goes through the plays
if she were in a dream, or rather, let me
say, that for the time being life and her
audience have become a dream, and Juliet's
troubles are the only realities she knows.
She loves with her, weeps with her, dies
with her  and when in the last scene she
flings herself across the breast of her prostrate
Romeo, Beta works herself up to such a
pitch of excitement that she closes her eyes
and almost believes that death will come and
take her as she lies there.

But the vision is soon dispelled by the fall
of the curtain and the frantic shouts of the
spectators. Romeo leaps to his feet and
pulls Juliet up with him, and she has to undergo
the ordeal of being dragged in front to
receive the congratulations of the audience.
In years to come, Beta will look to such a
moment as the reward of her labour and the
sign manual of her success ; on this first
occasion of her triumph she is too exhausted

242

to care about it. She has so wrought herself
up to go through with the important
duty she has undertaken, that the finish
finds her pale, worn-out, and almost ready to
fall into the arms of Kate Montalambert,
who is, of course, the first behind the scenes
to wish her joy of her success.

You did it splendidly, dear, wonderfully I
Everybody is astonished at your talent. I
am sure I couldn't have done it better myself,
with all my experience,' whispers her sympathetic
friend.

Good girl  good girl ! I knew you
could do it if you tried. We'll put you into
Rosalind tomorrow,' is Mr. Cheyne's less
gushing, though not less earnest, criticism.
Take the child home, Kate, and give her a
pint of stout and a dozen oysters. That's
the proper thing to take after Juliet, and remember
the rehearsal is called for ten o'clock
tomorrow.'

And so Miss Coralieie Cuthbert's accident is

an ill wind that blows some one good ; and
after a long night's rest, Elizabeth Selwyn
wakes up to read the Buton criticisms and
find herself famous.

*I AM GOING TO LEAVE YOU.'

Button is not a town the press criticisms of
which are to be despised. Its well organised
theatre, which, under the able management
of Mr. Cheyne, has turned out some of the
finest actors and actresses of the day, has
long been considered as the very cradle of
Dramatic Art, and its public has been
trained to know good acting from bad as well
as any. Therefore, as Beta reads the flattering
opinions of the Buton Mercury y and the
Benton Daily Press and the Western Planet,
on the morning following her debut as Juliet,
she can hardly believe they are intended for

herself. True genius is always linked with
modesty, and it requires all Kate Montalam-
bert's assurances to the contrary to convince
Beta that the newspapers have not greatly
overrated her abilities.

And if you won't believe the critics, my
dear, look here !' cries Mrs. Potter triumphantly,
as she points to the advertisement
column.  I hope you will at least acknowledge
that uncle knew what he was about
when he sent in this announcement :

" Notice,  In consequence of the unprecedented
success of Miss Elizabeth Selwyn
as Juliet, and the favour with which she was
received by a crowded audience, Mr. Cheyne
has the honour to announce that the play of
Romeo and Juliet ' will be repeated this
night (Saturday), and during the ensuing
week."

There, my dear, your appearance has had the

effect of keeping the same play on the boards
for three consecutive weeks, and if you knew
Buton. as well as I do, you would understand
what a feather that is in your cap

I am very glad says Beta. ' I like
the part of Juliet much better than Rosalind,
and should feel so very sorry not to
play it again. Besides, I should like Bob
to see me in it. He seems to think that
acting consists only of pantomimes, and
dances, and burlesque songs.'

Oh, bother Rob !' cries Miss Kate,
irreverently. ' I don't fancy you'll see much
more of Rob now, my dear. It will be a
short jump for you from Buton to London,
and then you'll have half the nobs of the
West End at your feet.'

Kate,' says Beta, sedately, ' I wish you
wouldn't talk like that. I am afraid you
must think very badly of me to say so.
What difference can my professional success
make to my relations with Mr. Free ?

We are engaged, and nothing can alter
that;

Well, we'll see, my dear !* is Miss Monta-lambert's
incredulous reply; 'but anyhow, we
must go down to the theatre now. This
announcement makes no difference to our
*call," and uncle will be vexed if we are late.'

The friends hurry off to the rehearsal,
 and the same evening Beta goes through
her own part again, exciting still more enthusiasm
than on the occasion of her first
appearance.

On the next day  the day of rest for man
and beast and actor alike, and the first
moment in which Beta seems to have had
time to think  there falls upon the girl a
strange mingled feeling of content and
melancholy.

Contented she certainly is. Her wildest
hopes have been fulfilled, and she realises
that the true secret of her life is found, and
understands at last why her spirit seemed

chafed and fettered by the representation of
chambermaids and second-rate ladies, when
it was longing to soar into the highest regions
of dramatic art.

She feels as if hitherto she had been
dumb, and the happy experience of the last
two nights had given her silver speech. She
looks forward to illimitable progress in the
future, whilst her mind travels quickly from 
one character to another, and she wants
to play them all at once. But joined
with this unbounded content comes a miserable
despondency that there is no one to
care for her success, nor to be proud of it,
except herself.

Her friends and relations have cast her off.
From her father and her Aunt Janie down
to Lady Free and Mrs. Matthews, all disown
and repudiate her. Even Rob, who
swears he would lay down his life for her
sake  who actually did risk laying it down
even he is most anxious for the day

when he shall be able to take her off the
stage.

And what is she doing,' thinks Beta,
sadly, ' to make good and bad people alike
afraid and ashamed of her ? What is there in
her blameless life to cause any man or woman
a blush to own her as a daughter or a
friend V

She cannot solve the riddle, but she feels
very much alone, poor child, on this first day
of her triumph, and as if the wider known
her name becomes as a true exponent of the
histrionic art the more she will be shunned
and execrated. She confides some of these
thoughts to Miss Montalambert, who laughs
at her for a simpleton.

You're low, Beta, that's what it is, my
dear. It's the reaction after all the excitement
you've passed through; Who that
wasn't a fool would despise you, who are
working honestly for a livelihood and paying
your way as you go ? Why, not half the

world can boast of doing as much ! And
as for those canting* hypocrites at Black
Abbottss, don't you give them a second
thought ! I dare say, if the truth was known,
that you'd hear some queer stories about
them. Whenever I meet a woman without
charity (and there are plenty of them knocking
about), I always know she needs it from
others. As you get on in life, child, you'll
find scores of women draw up their skirts as
you come by, who aren't pure enough to
black your boots ! And why ? Because
you're an actress ! And if they don't make
a show of extreme virtue in a direction
where everybody can understand it, they
may have awkward questions thrown in their
teeth by those who do not. It's the common
idea, Beta, that the danger of losing
our good names comes to us through the
other sex ; but it's not true. It's the women,
and mostly the unclean women, who try
to filch from us what they know they have

lost themselves. Keep clear of women,
Beta ! Don't have . too much to say to
the men, either  by which I mean, take all
you can get out of them, and give them
nothing in return ; but, whatever you do,
steer clear of the women ! All the troubles
of our lives come from them. We confide
in them, and they betray us  we try to help
them, and they lay the blame of failure on
our shoulders. They come between us and
our lovers  they carry lies of us to our
husbands  they pick open our letters and
listen at our keyhole. There is nothing in
this world too small, or mean, or petty, or
dishonourable for a woman to do T

Oh, Kate !' cries Beta, reproachfully ;
and when you have been so good to me !
Aren't you a woman ? And yet how kind
and generous you are '

Well, I'm not quite sure about that, my
dear ! I hope I'm not quite so bad as those
I speak of; but then there's no cant about

me, you know. I don't pretend to be good.
But IVe got my meanness too. I suppose
that's not to be entirely avoided, but sometimes
I feel awfully ashamed of myself, and
wish to goodness I had been born the commonest
male creature out.'

I wish you had been,' replies Beta,
laughing ; ' and then I would have married
you, dear, and we would always have lived
together.'

Don't you think so much about marrying
/' retorts Mrs. Potter, sharply. ' It's the
ruin of the stage, Beta ; and if you intend
to throw away all your chances of success in
that fashion, you'd better give it up at once.
What is the use of your slaving for the next
two or three years to get to the top of the
tree, if you mean to marry at the end of
them ? For my part, I wish you had never
met this Mr. Free. You can't enter into an
engagement like other'girls, just for the fun of
the thing  you look at it in far too serious

a light  and in the end it will be your
ruin I'

But I don't want to be married, Kate
says Beta, seriously ; * I would much rather
not  only, I promised, you see, and it would
be very dishonourable to break my word 
only, it is not to take place for a very, very
long time, not till Sir Willoughby and Lady
Free are both dead, so there is no need even
to think of such a thing

And suppose Mr. Free were to marry
someone else, meanwhile, what then, Beta V
demands her friend inquisitively.

I shouldn't mind,' says the girl ;  indeed,
I should be very glad. Kob wouldn't marry
another girl unless he liked her more than
me, so it would be all the better for us both,
wouldn't it X

It is very evident that  Cupid hath not
clapped you on the shoulder !" ' exclaims Miss
Kate, laughing ; ' and I am glad of it,
Beta, for I fancy you would be a horribly

moony-spoony sort of girl if you were in
love, and a nuisance to yourself and everybody
else. No, no, dear I Don't you compromise
yourself till you get to London, and
then, if you don't get the chance of a coronet,
I shall say it's all your own fault !'

As Beta comes off the stage after the first
act on Monday evening, Lady Capulet meets
her mysteriously at the Savings.

My dear ! who's the stranger in the stage-box
who kept his glasses fixed on you the
whole time you've been on V

How should I know, Kate ? I never see
anybody when I'm playing

You goose ! Wait till you've had my
experience, and you'll be able to count the
house in the middle of your most impassioned
scenes. But really, he is a most distinguished
looking man.'

Yes !'

How indifferent you profess to be. How
I have been puzzling my brains to guess who

he is. Perhaps it's Mr. Carlton, the member
for Buton.'

'May be.'

But why should he come alone, and have
a whole box to himself? Beta, I am sure
you have made a conquest ! I caught sight
of a big bouquet just now, in the back of the
box. Suppose it should be Lord Trevanion !
What a triumph ! And he is such a good-looking
fellow, and been a widower for the
last two years.'

What should that matter to me, Kate V

Don't you see, you silly thing, that he
could make your fortune if he chose ? It's
someone that's taken a fancy for you, I'm
sure. Do look at him, next time you go on,
and see if he is a friend of yours.'

I will tr}, Kate, but the footlights
dazzle my eyes so, I can seldom distinguish
features.'

However, she does turn her gaze in the
direction of the stage-box on the next oppor-
voL. II. 25

unity, and only encounters an empty space.
The mysterious stranger has either had
enough of her acting, or withdrawn himself
for the purposes of refreshment.

He is gone,' she says to Mrs. Potter
when they meet again.

No such thing, my dear ! He was only
hiding behind the curtains. I know their
tricks. I had a good look at him just now,
and he is very like the Duke of Cambridge.
Supposing it should be his Royal
Highness ? Why, he might make you a
manageress at once if he chose !'

Beta laughs immoderately at the idea.

Oh, Kate ! you are too funny ! I am
afraid I should have to manage the duke
before he set me to manage the theatre, and
I have never understood him to be so zealous
a patron of the drama yet !'

It is all very well to laugh, Beta, but
there is no doubt that gentleman is someone
of great importance, and if you throw away

every chance that comes to you in this way,
you'll never get to the top of the tree !'

At this dismal prospect Beta tries to
look properly serious, and when, with the fall
of the curtain, a large bouquet, skilfully
directed from the staofe-box, falls riofht at her
feet, she curtsies low to the mysterious
stranger, with a face beaming with gratitude.

You have got it ! I knew you would,'
cries Mrs. Potter triumphantly, as she seizes
upon Beta and the bouquet ;  and he is
coming round, my dear ! the box-keeper says
so : I couldn't catch his name, but I feel
more sure than ever that it is either Lord
Trevanion or the Duke of Cambridge.'

Oh ! let it be Lord Trevanion, please !
the duke's married !' exclaims Beta merrily,
just as her friend says : ' Hush ! hush !
don't talk so loud. Here he is !' and she
looks round to encounter the burly form and
twinkling eyes of Mr. Henderson. In a
moment she has darted to his side.

252

Oh, how glad I am to see sou ! How
are dear Mrs. Henderson and old Trim ?
And was it you just now in the stage-box ?
And what brings you down to Buton ? And
did you throw me this beautiful bouquet ?'

Here's a host of questions !' exclaims
Mr. Henderson ; ' which am I to answer
first ? I came down to Buton to see you
play Juliet, and I threw you the bouquet, because
you are a good little girl, and have
minded what I taught you.'

How kind of you to say so ! How did
you hear I was playing Miss Cuthbert's
part ? Did Mr. Cheyne send you the
papers V

Yes ; Cheyne sent me the papers ; but I
thought it best to run down and judge for
myself of your progress, and I would not
tell you first, for fear my presence might
make you nervous. But I have been watching
you from behind the curtain the whole
evening, and I am very pleased with you.'

And Kate thought you were the Duke of
Cambridge !' cries Beta, laughing.

bother the Duke of Cambridge says
the blunt manager, ' I'm worth fifty dukes
put together to you. The whole peerage
couldn't do as much for you as I can. But
you had better go home now, my dear, and
I'll see you the first thing in the morning. I
must be back in town by three o'clock, without
fail.'

Miss Kate Montalambert finds Beta
after that interview in a very April condition
 with tears in her eyes, but smiles
upon her face, and a look as if she had not
quite made up her mind whether to be glad
or sorry.

Oh, Kate !' she says, impulsively,  I am
going to leave you.'

To leave us, dear !' echoes Mrs. Potter.

Yes ! Mr. Henderson says he has given
the usual fortnight's notice to Mr. Cheyne,
and at the end of that time, provided Miss

Cuthbert is well again, I am to join him in
London. I am apprenticed to him, you
know, and bound to do as he tells me  and
he means to bring me out at the ' Marlborough."
'

Mrs. Potter flies into her friend's arms,
and for a few minutes they cry together.

Well, dear ! I shall be awfully sorry to
lose you,' says the elder woman, as she wipes
her eyes ; ' and I can't think what the theatre
will look like to me, when you are gone ; but
still, it is a rise for you, and that is the proper
light in which to regard it. Of course, the
duke (I shall always call Mr. Henderson
'the duke " now, Beta) is proud of your
progress, and wants to reap the benefit of it.
I wonder what he will bring you out in,
Beta ? I shall be so curious to learn.'

He says as Desdemona or Juliet.
They have Montgomery Warren, the great
Shakesperian actor, at the Marlborough
Theatre, at present, and Mr. Henderson is

not satisfied with the juvenile lead. But it
is a tremendous jump for me, Kate I I hope
my sudden elevation won't make me giddy.
So many stop half-way to fame because of
self-esteem !'

There's no fear that you will, Beta !
you are the most diffident girl I know ! Just
think of that cheeky creature, Carry Warrington,
coming down to take first boy in the
pantomime, with scarcely a note in her voice,
and feet stretching from here to Jericho !
That was self-esteem, if you like.'

 That Alas utter incompetence,' says Beta,
smiling ; ' I am not afraid of committing
myself to quite such an extent as that.'

Mr, Henderson will take care you don't
commit yourself at all, my dear,' is her friend's
reply.  He hasn't been stage managing half
the theatres in London for the last fifty years
for nothing, I can tell you, and knows gold
from pinchbeck at a glance,'

But though Beta expects her friends to be

sorry she is going to leave Baton, she is
hardly prepared for the effect the intelligence
produces upon Bobby Free. They are alone
when she breaks the news to him, and the
young fellow has great difficulty in keeping
back his tears.

Going back to London 1' he exclaims,
piteously. ' Oh, Beta ! for how long V

For how long V repeats Beta, hardly
able to avoid laughing at her lover's comical
exhibition of distress ;  why, for ever, I
suppose, Bob. At least, if I am lucky
enough to obtain anything like a position
there, I am not likely to relinquish it again.
You know a London appearance is the grand
aim and object of all the actors' hopes. It is
our paradise : our promised land ! We get no
appreciation that is really worth anything unless
it has been endorsed by the London press !'

But what am I to do without you V says
Bobby, despairingly. * How am I to see you
if you go to London V

Beta looks grave.

I am sorry for you, Rob,' she answers ;
'but it cannot be helped. You would not
care for my being on the stage and making
no eftbrt to advance. I must go on and on,
till I get to the very top of the tree. Then,
perhaps, you will have reason to be proud of
me.'

I don't want to be prouder of you than I
am  and I wish you had never seen the
stage says Bobby, impatiently ; ' I hate it,
and everything on it ! Oh, how I wish
that I had a thousand a year of my own, that
I might take you off it tomorrow, and never
let you enter a theatre again !'

And how sincerely glad Beta is, as she
sits beside him, to think that he is quite incapable
of putting his threat into execution.
To take her off the stage just as she has been
thought worthy to play Juliet, and set her
down for life by the side of Bobby Free !
The girl shudders inwardly at the idea  were

he rich, she would consider it necessary to
communicate her feelings to him  but as it is,
she thinks it kinder to be silent and try to
soothe his distress.

'You mustn't make so much of a little
parting,' she says, cheerfully ; ' Buton is only
one hundred miles from London, you know,
and you are constantly backwards and
forwards. And then I shall write to you,
Rob, every week at the least, and tell you all
that I am doing, and all that I have seen.'

But Bob refuses to be comforted.

I shall go mad cooped up at Baron's
Court whilst you are fluttering about in
London with a lot of howling cads at your
heels. I can hardly bear it even down herein
Buton, but it will be a thousand times
worse then. I shall kill my grandmother, ordo
something desperate  see if I don't !'

Beta does not know whether to laugh or
cry. She cannot entirely sympathise with
Bobby's distress at their parting ; on the"

contrary, it is a great relief to her to think
that she will not be so constantly subjected
to listen with a callous ear to his longwinded
tale of love. She is awfully sorry for him 
sorry, because she cannot feel all that he
describes his heart to do, and is fearful lest
she should be a cold-blooded sort of person
who can never prove anything but a disappointment
to him ; but, at the same time, it
is a real comfort to her to know that she will
be, for the present at least, free from his
espionage and constant abuse of her profession,
and that she will not be called upon
to give him kisses on demand, or to sit close
to him on the sofa and pretend to like it.
Deception is abhorrent to her nature, and
poor Beta is already beginning to suspect
that she has deceived herself with regard to
her feelings for Bobby Free. And when
they are separated, perhaps he may forget her
happy thought !  or see someone he likes
better ; and then, she will be free and happy

again as she was before they met. Bobby's
groans and complaints do not cease until the
last day she spends in Baton, when he goes
in company with Kate Montalambert to see
her off by the London train.

 Good-bye, my daring !' he exclaims, much
to Botha's disgust before all the passengers ;
this place will be unendurable when you
are gone ! and I shall be with you again
before you expect to see me.'

But I thought your people were not
coming to town till the season replies Beta,
not over pleased at the prospect of losing the
two months' grace she has been looking
forward to.

No more they are,' says Bobby, mysteriously
; ' but I don't think I shall wait for
them. I have a prospect  that is, I have
Written  but never mind !' he exclaims,
breaking off suddenly. ' Nothing is settled
yet, but, as soon as I am certain, you shall
know !'

And Beta, having embraced Kate Monta-lambert
for the last time, is whisked off to
London, revolving in her mind what Kob's
half given confidence can possibly allude to.

YOU OUGHT TO KNOW EACH OTHER.'

As Beta re-enters the Henderson' house,
she feels more like coming ' home ' than she
has done since her mother died. The old
lady receives her with open arms, and the
fat terrier Trim evinces his delight at seeing
her again by elephantine leaps in the air,
which are summarily cut short by an asthmatic
cough, which causes him to retreat, considerably
subdued in manner, to his basket.

And Beta is ready to return the greetings
offered her with interest. The cries in the
streets, the rattle of cabs, the bustle and
commotion of the great city, seem to infuse

fresh life into her veins, and fill her with
a great pride to think that she claims a place
amongst the labourers of the earth  that she
belongs to the working bees, and not to the
drones of London.

She soon learns that she has been formally
engaged at the Marlborough Theatre, and is
to receive two pounds a week from her salary
for her private expenses. Two pounds each
week to spend upon herself ! Beta feels as
if some fairy godmother had suddenly endowed
her with a fortune, and cannot sufficiently
express her gratitude, which Mr. Henderson
accepts as a matter of course.

Doubtless, that astute old gentleman
knows what he is about, and probably
pockets two pounds for each one he bestows
upon his pupil. Still, the girl is perfectly
happy and satisfied with the arrangement,
and considers herself the luckiest creature in
the world. She sets to work on the tasks
allotted her with spirit and energy, and

accomplishes them so well, that in the course
of a month all London is familiar with the
name and appearance of the youn actress
who is nightly drawing crowded houses to
the Marlborough. One of the first from
amongst her old acquaintances to seek out
Beta, and congratulate her on her success,
is Mattie Kemyss, now Mrs. Conrad Levison.

Mattie is as lovely as ever, perhaps more
so : and Beta finds her quite as affectionate.
She lives in one of the best houses in Queen's
Gate, and she drives the handsomest horses
in London ; but she is as girlish and unsophisticated
and as delighted to talk to
Beta as she used to be in the old days
when they were schoolfellows together at
Princess College.

You will come and see me, darling, as
soon as ever you can, won't you V she says,
on the occasion of their first meeting. ' I've
got an awfully jolly house, twice as big as
papas, and fourteen servants (we alway

said we'd like to have lots of servants, didn't
we 1 you and I), and a stable full of horses.
I can lend you a riding-horse, if you would
like a gallop sometimes, Beta ; for I have
two, and I never mount anything but my
mare, Zoe. She's such a pet ; bright bay,
with a star on her forehead, and as gentle asa
lamb.'

Fourteen servants, and a stable full of
horses ! You are a lucky girl, Mattie,' says
Beta, laughing ; ' and I hope you are very
happy, dear, witch all these good things, and
want nothing further.'

Mrs. Levison colours, and looks lovelier
than before.

Oh yes ! I'm happy enough ! and I
ought to be, oughtn't I ? By the way, Beta,
do you remember Carry Patterson at college 
a little creature with reddish hair V

Perfectly ! She was a very good-natured
girl. What of her V .

She was married the same week as myself,

VOL. II. 26

to a Mr. Harvey, a clerk I think, or something
of that sort ; and for curiosity's sake I
went to see her the other day, and fancy ! I
found her living in a couple of rooms out at
Nothing Hill, and with a baby of six weeks
old! Such a wretched arrangement altogether.
I wonder the poor girl doesn't cut her
throat.'

Oh ! I dare say she is happy enough, that
is if she loves her husband,' replies Beta,
musingly. * Fancy little Carry Patterson with
a baby ! How funny ! And there is no baby
at Queen's Gate yet, eh, Mattie ?'

Thank heaven, no !' exclaims Mrs. Levi-son,
emphatically ; ' and I sincerely trust
there never will be !'

Mattie !' says Beta, reproachfully. To a
true-hearted woman, it seems so strange that
any wife should not wish to be a mother.

I do /' repeats Mattie, boldly. ' What do
you suppose I want a nasty squalling little
brat for ? to spoil half my pleasure, and keep

me at home when I want to go out. You
don't know yet, either, how agreeable Mr.
Levison can make himself in his own house,
or you would not expect me to want to see
his temper reproduced in his offspring.'

 Oh, Mattie ! then you are not happy !'
exclaims Beta.

Indeed I am, my dear ! I've learned to
make myself so, exclusive of my surroundings.
And now that you have come to
town you will greatly add to my happiness.
I am longing to see you at Queen's Gate !
When will you come Beta V

I have no day to myself but Sundays,'
replies her friend ; ' but if you will have me
then, I will be with you at any hour you like
to name.'

Sunday will do charmingly,' says Mattie,
and especially as it is Mr. Levison's day for
visiting his own friends. Come as early as
you can, Beta, and we will have a long day
together.'

2G 2

Beta's first visit to Queen's Gate confirms
all that Mrs. Levison has told her with regard
to her riches. The house teems with evidences
of wealth, and in the midst of satin-covered
sofas and gilded chairs, costly china and valuable
paintings, hothouse flowers and velvet-pile
carpets, Mattie sits like some fair piece
of Dresden china, clothed in the finest tissues
and hung with precious stones ; but yet with
a look of dissatisfaction and longing on her
face which makes itself too evidently seen
and felt, even in her moments of excitement.

*I suppose you've heard that your papa
and Mrs. Durant have gone abroad, Beta V
she says, shortly after their reunion.  Yes !
it is true. I fancy the lady found that most
of your mamma's old friends hung aloof from
her, and that one or two awkward stories
were afloat relative to your leaving home,
and so they let their new house at Primrose
Hi, and have gone, I think, to Brussels.
Anyway London knows them no more.'

I am glad of that says Beta, though
the tears stand in her eyes the while.  I
should have liked to see dear little Hyacinth
again ; but it would have been very
painful to come across either papa or Mrs.
Durant. So it is better as it is, perhaps.'

But your aunt, Mrs. Chapman, is in town,
and so is her daughter. I met them last week
in the Gardens. I suppose you will see them,
Beta V

I think not, Mattie. I certainly shall not
go to their house unless they first hold out the
hand of reconciliation. Aunt Janie needlessly
insulted me at a time when I was very
friendless and unhappy ; and though I hope
I am not hard-hearted, I have a great deal
of pride left, for my dear mother's sake.'

And so you ought to be proud,' cries
Mattie, fervently. 'Mr. Clifford says you
are the most talented girl that has appeared
on the staofe since he can remember. He
was enchanted with your Desdemona, the

other night. He could not take his eyes off
you.'

And who may Mr. Clifford be V asks
Beth a, smiling.

Haven't you heard of Geoffrey Clifford,
the jeiine premier of the Frivolity. Oh ! he
is so handsome, and he has such a voice !
What a pity you can't go and see him play !'

Do you mean Mr. Clifford, the actor ? Of
course I have heard of him. Kate Monta-lambert
kept his photograph on account of
hats beauty. How did you come to know him,
Mattie? Have you many theatrical acquaintances
V

Mrs. Levison blushes crimson.

No  very few. How did I become acquainted
with Mr. Clifford ? I really can't
remember. Somebody introduced him, I
suppose. But his portraits do not do him
justice. The charm of his face lies in its
expression. You should see him play Claude
Melnotte. Perhaps he may look in this-afternoon.

He sometimes does on Sundays.
It is his only spare time, you know, as well
as yours

And indeed, even as Mattie is speaking,
a knock at the hall-door announces a fresh
arrival, and Mr. Geoffrey Clifford sis shown
into the room. The first thought Beta
entertains concerning him is, that he justifies
Mrs. Levison's praises. A tall, slight
man, of about thirty, with an easy graceful
manner, and a peculiarly sweet expression of
countenance Geoffrey Clifford bears on his
person the unmistakable signs of being a
gentleman. He is fair as the day, and, with
the exception of a small moustache, wears no
hair about his face. His golden fleece is
close shorn in military fashion ; his complexion
is clear as a child's ; his teeth, white
and even. Added to the beauty of his
person, he is dressed in the latest fashion,
yet without any signs of coxcombry, and
looks as if he had just stepped from his

bath, perfumed and anointed, and put on
everything fresh and clean.

This may seem an ignoble basis in the eyes
of some on which to plant the first tiny seed
of love ; but to a gentlewoman it possesses an
indescribable charm. I think even Cupid
himself would have appeared less lovable in
the eyes of Psyche, had he visited her with
disordered locks and ruffled Savings.

Beta has heard of Mr. Clifford and his
talent long before ; in fact, she knows everything
concerning his theatrical career. She
has heard of his success as Claude Melnotte
and Charles Surface, and Romeo, and the
various characters in which our jeunes premiers
make it their ambition to shine, and is quite
prepared to admire him accordingly.

And Mr. Clifford, who has seen her on the
stage more than once, is not slow to reciprocate
the compliment.

Surely I need not introduce you to Miss
Selwyn !' exclaims Mattie when she has-shaken

hands with him. ' Two such famous
people ought to know each other by instinct

I should have recognised Miss Selwyn
anywhere,' says Geoffrey Clifford, bowing to
Beta : ' although I have not hitherto had
the honour of claiming her personal acquaintance.
I was lucky enough to have a spare
evening last week, Miss Selwyn, in which to
conduct Mrs. Levison to the Marlborough
to see ** Othello," and we were enchanted 
simply enchanted ! Weren't we, Mrs. Levi-son
V

I am glad you were pleased,' replies
Beta, blushing ruddily under his praise.
 Mr. Warren is very good as Othello, is he
not ? I never heard such power as he
throws into the scene where ago rouses his
jealousy.'

I think Mr. Clifford would have liked to
strangle him when he smothered Desdemona,'
says Mattie ; ' at least if I may judge from
the expression his countenance assumed.'

I never had any sympathy with the
character,' replies her visitor ; ' I always considered
Othello to be a weak, revengeful fool,
and I am sure that if Desdemona had only
shown a little more spirit he wouldn't have
dared to put her out of the way in so summary
a manner

Oh ! now I am going to catch it,' says
Beta, laughing ; but Mr. Clifford stops her
with the assurance that though Shakespeare
may be open to criticism, it would be impossible
to find any fault with her impersonation
of Desdemona.

Are you strictly a Shakesj)earian actress.
Miss Selwyn, or have you attempted the
melodramatic line V he asks presently.

swell, to speak strictly, Mr. Clifford, I
may almost say this is my first appearance
in any line. I have been matriculating for
the profession for the last twelvemonth
in Buton, but never had the chance of
making a mark till now. My first venture,

however, was as Pauline in the " Lady of
Lyons." *

Ah ! what a sweet play it is ! It is useless
to tell me it is mawkish, high-flown, and
stage ! I know it well ; but it will retain
its place of favour with the multitude when
stronger pieces are forgotten.'

Because the hero is a common labourer
who proves himself to be as good and better
than any of the gentlemen represented 
that is the most unnatural part of the play,
Mr. Clifford, and that is what wins it such
applause from the oi polo. It is a radical
piece, and I am strictly conservative ; therefore,
though I allow it is pretty, I have never
felt much interest in it.'

You believe, then, in birth V says Mr.
Clifford suddenly, turning to her.

Most decidedly I do ; and still more in
the education of generations. It is that
which will raise our profession at last to what
it should be  the noblest in the world. Now

it is looked down upon, contemned and degraded,
because most of its members, instead
of bringing to it the fruits of their study,
have joined it in so raw a condition that they
have had to be educated up to its requirements
before they could fulfil the least of
them. People are surprised,* continues
Beta, modestly, 'when a girl like myself
makes a successful appearance on the stage ;
but granted the dramatic instinct, every
actress should be able to do the same who
has studied elocution, and been taught to
walk and stand and sit like a lady

'Where were you taught T demands
Clifford, eagerly.

'At the Princess College. Mrs. Levison
and I were educated there together.'

Now, my dear child,' cries Mattie,
please don't say anything about me, or Mr.
Clifford may begin to compare notes. Beta
and I Averse certainly schoolfellows at the
same college, but as for my being educated

with her, why I never learned anything I
could possibly help. Now did I, Beta V

You generally got a prize, Mattie !'

Yes, because papa was rich and paid all
extras, and they were afraid that if I didn't
seem to get on, he would take me away.
By the way, Beta, I met Miss Denny the
other day, and told her I had seen you, and
she looked so dreadfully shocked, and said,
' Surely, my dear Mrs. Levison, you do not
keep up any communication with that poor
lost soul '?" So then I asked her to come
and meet you at luncheon some day, and she
nearly fainted then and there.'

Mattie, how could you ? Fancy asking
Miss Denny to meet an actress ! She must
have thought you wished to insult her. I
have experienced more than one proof since
joining the profession of the estimation in
which actresses are held by the general public'

But you do not let it annoy you, surely,'
says Mr. Clifford.

'No, indeed. So long as my friends
appreciate my motives I care nothing for the
private opinion of the general public'

They must be proud who are admitted to
the privilege of enrolling themselves in the
number of your friends he answers softly.

Mrs. Levison appears to find the conversation
somewhat tedious. She jumps up to
create a diversion.

Now if you good people cannot find anything
more entertaining to talk about than
the education of the masses, and the opinion
of the general public, I shall go to sleep
she says merrily. ' Mr. Cliflbrd, be good
enough to ring the bell for me. We will
have afternoon tea.'

He does her bidding, but will not resume
his seat.

Surely you are not going,' says Mattie,
with an air of disappointment.

I am afraid I must, Mrs. Levison. I
have an engagement at Madame Koccabelli's

this afternoon which I cannot evade. Had
I but known I should have the pleasure of
meeting Miss Selwyn here, I would have
managed better ; as it is, I have no alternative
but most unwillingly to take my
leave.'

That is complimentary to me' pouts
Mattie.

Geoffrey Clifford does not answer, but he
raises his eyes to hers, and Beta sees the
look which is exchanged between them.

As soon as he has taken his departure
Mrs. Levison is loud in his praise. Is he
not handsome, clever, agreeable, and fascinating
! and she calls upon Beta to endorse
her estimation of him.

Yes,' says candid Beta, ' he is very
good-looking, and he talks well, and looks
like a gentleman. But is he  do you think
he is good, Mattie V .

 What do you mean by good f demands
Mattie, somewhat confused.

 I do not mean religious. Few young men
are that, unfortunately. I mean, is he good-hearted
? Would he refrain from doing anything
he wished because it was not quite
honourable, or it hurt another's feelings, or
was beneath himself as a man f

What a funny girl you are, Beta, with
your extraordinary surmises I I really don't
know, but I suppose he would, as much as
any other gentleman.'

He ' is much handsomer than his photographs,'
adds Beta, musingly ; ' and he
must be very clever. I wonder who he is
and where he comes from ? Do you know
his real name, Mattie V

No. I never heard he had another. He
was introduced to me as Mr. Clifford.'

The truth is, he has never been introduced
to Mattie at all ; she picked up his acquaintance
of her own accord, but she is too much
afraid of Beta's reproaches to make her
cognisant of that fact : and after a few more

remarks, Mr. Clifford's name drops out of the
conversation. But it is by no means the
last time that Beta meets him in the company
of her friend.

Mattie seems to have very few female
acquaintances, and she clings to Beta as
having been associated with her maiden days.
Occasionally some of Mr. Levison's relatives
call at Queen's Gate : fat, handsome women,
gorgeously arrayed, and scented like a perfumer's
shop, who stay for a few minutes,
fixing Beta with their big black eyes, and
then shake out their voluminous drapery, and
with many promises of a speedy return,
drive away.

But Mattie is generally alone, unless Mr.
Geoffrey Clifford keeps her company, and
wiles away the afternoon hours with his
fascinating conversation, or by singing
chansonnettes in a rich baritone voice, to his
own accompaniment on the piano.

Mr. Conrad Levison, Beta seldom sees ;

VOL. II. 27

and when they do meet, he regards her with
a cold and suspicious eye that does not make
her anxious for a closer companionship.
Indeed, she has not seen Mattie again for
many weeks, before the young wife has confided
to her how unhappy she is in her
married life. She fears her husband as much
as she dislikes him, and often assures her
friend that she lives in daily terror of her
life.

But she appears to forget all her anxieties
and sorrows in the presence of Mr. Clifford.


Beta is troubled. She is not so ignorant
as to be unaware that when a married woman
has no sympathy with, nor affection for, her
husband, it is very dangerous for her to
cultivate an intimacy with any other man.

She cannot help seeing the fitful colour
that comes and goes on Mattie's lovely cheeks
when Geoffrey Clifford's step is heard upon
the stairs ; nor the look of disappointment

that settles down upon her face when the
day draws to a close without his making his
appearance. She perceives the temporary coolness
which occasionally springs up between
Mrs. Levison and herself when Mr. Clifford
has devoted the greater part of his time to
her amusement, and cannot misinterpret the
flush of annoyance that spreads over Mattie's
countenance if any word or deed of the young
actor is found fault with.

Beta has on several occasions, also, met
Mattie driving in a close carriage with Mr.
Clifford by her side  has more than once,
too, surprised the pair at luncheon together
in Queen's Gate, without the chaperonage
of Mr. Levison, and looking very awkward
at her unexpected appearance.

Thinking over these things in the quiet
of her own home, and feeling keenly for the
scrape in which her friend would find herself
should Mr. Levison discover her proceedings,
Beta determines to do the most foolish

272

thing possible, and that is to speak to Mattie
on the subject.

Were she a woman of the world, she would
pick up a snake by the wayside and carry it
home in her bosom, sooner than risk the
consequences of attacking a married lady on
the subject of her unlicensed flirtations.
But Beta is not a woman of the world.
She is still a child innocent of evil, and
only anxious to be a true and sincere friend
to one who has befriended her.

She does not suspect guilt, or even think
of it. She only sees that Mattie is silly and
imprudent, and may suffer from the effects of
her folly if not warned in time. And so goes to
her, pure of all intention excepting to do good;
and in her endeavour to benefit another,
brings down upon her own guiltless head
the greatest calamity her life shall know.

WAS THERE ANYTHING WRONG V

This friendly but ill-advised action is forced
upon Beta Durant after this fashion. As
she is leaving the stage-door one night to
get into the cab that is waiting for her (she
is not so lucky as some young actresses of
the present day, who cannot play either
Juliet or Desdemona, but whose merits
can yet command a brougham and pair of
horses to convey them to a villa in the
suburbs as soon as their duties at the theatre
are concluded), as she is just stepping over
the threshold the figure of a man (in whom,
to her astonishment, she recognises Mr.

Levison) jostles her somewhat rudely in the
doorway.

I have been waiting for you, Miss
Selwyn he says, abruptly. ' Where is my
wife ?'

Your ivife f repeats Beta, in her amazement
; ' how should I know, Mr. Levison ?
Why do you ask me f

Because she has been spending the day
with you ; and I wish her to come home at
once.'

But it is not true ! You have been misinformed
replies Beta. ' I have not seen
Mattie since last Sunday, when we walked in
Kensington Gardens together.'

Will Mr. Clifford, of course "?' sneers
Mr. Levison.

Mr. Clifford did join us ; is there any
harm in that V

 Oh, certainly not ! There never is any
harm about these clandestine appointments.
But please to tell me what is the meaning of

that T continues the irate husband, as he
thrusts an open telegram into her hand.

Really, Mr. Levison, I cannot discuss
such matters with you at the stage-door. If
you will drive home with me, I will answer
any question you may wish to ask.*

He hands her into the cab sullenly, and
they drive to Mr. Henderson's house in
silence. When they have entered the sitting-room,
Beta aofain turns to her visitor.

Now I will look at the telegram, if you
desire it V

It is as follows, dated from Beta's
address :

From To

Mrs. Levison, Conrad Levison, Esq.,

/ am spending the day with Miss Selwyn,
and shcdl accompany her to the theatre. Tell
Dickins to sit up for met

As Beta reads this falsehood, she turns

very pale. Deceit is foreign to her nature,
and she cannot understand it in that of
others.

This must be a mistake,' she says quietly,
as she returns Mr. Levison the paper. * Your
wife has not been here to-day.'

I thought as much ! I knew as much !'
he returns, firmly, as he crushes the telegram
in his hand ; ' and that is the reason I was
determined to see you and learn the truth.
She is with that low cad Clifford, somewhere ;
and thinks to dupe me with this pretence of
visiting you. But my eyes are opened at
last  at last !'

Beta cannot help an inward smile at the
idea of Conrad Levison calling Geoffrey Clifford
a *low cad,' but she respects the
husband's natural anger too much to give any
open vent to her amusement. All her care
is lest Mat tie should suffer from the effects of
her imprudence.

*Mr. Levison, don't do or say anything

rashly,' she pleads ; ' Mattie may have intended
coming to me when she sent this
message, and changed her mind afterwards.
Have you been home since you received
it?'

No ! She knew that I should probably
have business to detain me in the city, and
only sent her telegram in case of my plans
being altered. I shall not be in Queen's
Gate again until tomorrow afternoon ; but
she shall know, by that time, who is master
in my house, and who not'

And Mr. Levison leaves Beta's presence
as abruptly and rudely as he entered it, with
his telegram in his hand.

Her first thought is for silly, pretty, imprudent
Mattie ! What can she have been
thinking of to run such a risk of discovery ?
Beta  as has been said before  has no suspicion
of the existence of actual evil, but she
longs to fly to the protection of her friend, as
she used to do in the old college days, when

Mattie was behindhand with her verb or her
theme, and Beta wrote them oiF for her
whilst the class was waiting.

At an unusually early hour the next morning,
she is demanding admittance to the
presence of Mrs. Levison, whom she finds in
an elegant white and blue 'peignoir, with her
hair down her back, drinking chocolate in
her dressing-room.

Why, Beta, whatever brings you here at
this unearthly hour? Is the Marlborough
burned down V demands Mattie, with one
of her lovely languid smiles.

No, Mattie ! but something of much
greater consequence (at least to you) has
occurred ;' and then Beta goes on quickly
to relate the circumstances that took place
the night before. ' So I came to you as
soon as possible,' she continues, ' that you
might hear it before Mr. Levison returns
home, and be prepared to give him an explanation.'


And do you mean to say that you actually
told him the telegram was a ruse f exclaims
Mrs. Levison, turning very pale.

'What else could I do, Mattie ? Your
husband commenced accusing you of spending
the day with me. I did not know he
was laying a trap for you. I had no alternative
but to deny it.'

And;do you call yourself lady friend f says
the other, bitterly.

Beta is staggered by the retort. In her
eyes Friendship and Truth are inseparable,
and she does not understand how she can
have done her friend an injury by being
sincere.

Would you have had me tell a falsehood !'
she exclaims. ' Mattie dear, indeed I am
your friend. Have I not always been so,
from the days when we were almost children
at college together ? And if I have brought
trouble on you I am very very sorry, but
how can I have done so 1 Was there anything

wrong, Mattie, about that telegram,
and did you really wish Mr. Levison to think
that you had spent the day with me V

Was there anything ivrong about that
telegram f repeats Mattie, sarcastically.
Beta ! you are a humbug ! I don't believe
you are so innocent as you profess to
be. Why, of course it was a ruse de guerre,
Mr. Clifford and I were at the Crystal Palace
together all day, enjoying ourselves like
anything ; and I went to the Frivolity in the
evening, and saw him play in " The Rightful
Heir." Oh, he vas so charming  perfectly
divine !'

But why didn't you tell your husband the
truth, and save yourself all this trouble,
Mattie V says Beta.

Tell him the truth, child ! Do you
suppose Conrad would let me go about with
Geoffrey Clifford, and dine with him at the
Palace ? Why, he's as jealous as Othello I
He'd cut my throat first.'

A cloud settles on Beta's brow. She
sees it all now. There is something to be
concealed, therefore there must be something
wrong. And she has been made the
scapegoat for Mattie's imprudent conduct.

It was not fair to bring mis name into the
matter,' she says in a tone of vexation.

Any thing's fair in love or war, my dear,'
replies her friend, lightly.

But, Mattie, this can't be love ! You area
married woman.'

Mrs. Levison's eyes fall beneath her gaze.

Oh, Mattie ! it is very very wrong !
Pray consider what you are doing ! If you
think about Mr. Clifford in that way, you
ought never to see him again.'

Really, Beta, I don't know who set you
up to be a judge over me.'

It is my affection for you makes me bold,
Mattie. I have seen, of course  I could not
help seeing  that Mr. Clifford and you were
very intimate friends, but I never dreamt

you could be anything more. Mattie  dear
Mattie, pray give him up, and tell him never
to come here again. Mr. Levison is very
angry about it. He called him a " low cad,"
and said his eyes were opened at last. There
will be a dreadful quarrel some day if you
are not more prudent, and then it may end
in unhappiness for all of you. Do  do give
him up !'

'Do you want him for yourself?' asks
Mattie, with a sneer. It is so wonderful to
hear Mattie sneer. Beta drops the hand
she holds at once, and draws herself backwards.


I am engaged to be married to Mr.
Free,' she answers proudly.

Oh ! and you consider that a sufficient
guarantee, I suppose, for the circumspection
of your conduct, whilst my marriage is not
enough for mine  thank you, Beta. Well, I
am evidently not respectable enough for your
acquaintance, and therefore I had better

drop it. My actions are not likely to meet
with your approval, and therefore it will be
wiser to save your feelings and acquit
your conscience by not coming here anymore.'


Do you mean to cast me off V exclaims
Beta.

I don't see that our friendship conduces
to our happiness replies Mrs. Levison, but
the hand which trifles with her teaspoon
shakes the while ; ' you are not content with
finding fault with my friends and my actions,
but you must needs turn tale-bearer against
me to my husband, and therefore I cannot
believe that you care for me any longer 1'

Tale-bearer to your husband !' echoes
Beta. ' You know it is not true, Mattie.
You knows I am the last person in the world
to undertake so odious an office ; but if you
are angry because I did not tell a lie to
screen your own, the sooner we part the
better, because that is what I never have

done, and I never ivill do, for you or anyone
I'

And in the present state of my household,
to have such a truth-telHng friend as yourself
about the premises is the last thing that I
desire,' says Mat tie.

And if what you insinuate is the truth,'
retorts the other girl, ' to be your friend is
the last thing I desire myself But oh,
Mattie !' she continues, with a sudden impulse,
as she throws herself at Mrs. Levison's
feet, * be advised by me, and give up all
acquaintanceships but such as your husband
approves. You are too young, dear, and far
too pretty, to follow your own inclination in
such matters with impunity. Surely Mr.
Levison is the proper person to decide whom
you shall and whom you shall not know !'

But Mattie pushes her away, and rises
from her seat. The voice of a true-hearted
woman friend has no chance against that of
self-esteem and flattered vanity.

Your entreaties come too late, Betha/
she says, coldly. ' You have got me into a
precious scrape with my husband, and it will
take all my ingenuity, without any aid from
your propensity for candour, to get out of it
again. I have always heard that the most
dangerous thing a married woman can have
about her house is a female friend, and now
I know it.'

And you won't give up Geoffrey Clifford V
says Beta, sadly.

Certainly not  for you or anyone ; and if
Mr. Levison doesn't take care I'll play him
such a trick some day as he shall not easily
forget !' replies Mattie, as she moves nonchalantly
into the next room.

Beta's pride will not permit her to follow
nor make a second appeal to her friend's
feelings. She leaves the house without
bidding her farewell, and with a resolve never
to enter it again until she has very good
reason to believe her presence is required.

VOL. II. 28

The girl keeps her troubles to herself (she
has been learning to do so during the last
year), and only wonders sometimes sadly
whether the pleasant days she has enjoyed
with Mattie Levison are really at an end,
and she shall never see her nor Geoffrey
Clifford more.

She is startled, therefore, a few weeks
later, by learning the reason of Mr. Henderson
coming into the room, rubbing his hands,
and with an unusually beaming countenance.

Why what's the matter, papa V she says.

Since Mrs. Henderson invariably addresses
her husband, who has never been a ' papa,'
by this endearing title, Beta has fallen into
the habit of using it also.

' What's the matter, papa V ' repeats Mr.
Henderson, jocosely. 'Why, a great deal's
the matter, my dear ; that is to say, I have
at last succeeded in doing what I have been
trying for the last three years, and if you
don't call that '* something," /do.'

But what is it V

I've nailed Geoffrey Clifford for an engagement
at the Marlborough, and now the
people of London shall see the handsomest
Komeo and Juliet that they've looked at fora
long time.'

Mr. Clifford at the Marlborough !' says
Beta, with confusion.

She is not sorry he is coming ; she admires
him greatly ; she is proud of the prospect of
acting with him ; but what will he say
about her quarrel with Mattie Levison ?
Will he refuse to shake hands with her, or
believe her friend's statement that she is a
talebearer and mischief-maker. This doubt
troubles Beta terribly until the very moment
she encounters Mr. Clifford again, when
the ready smile with which he recognises her
restores her courage.

Then you are not hopelessly angry with
me,' she whispers to him, as they stand apart
in the intervals of a rehearsal.

282

Angry ! for what V

My misunderstanding with Mrs. Levison.
It really was a misunderstanding, Mr. Clifford.
She says I repeated needless tales of
her to her husband, but I hope you do not
think so Utile of me as to believe it can be
true. I only told the truth. I never meant
to harm her for a moment  should I have
been so cruel ? But Mattie would not believe
my excuses, and so we parted.*

Geoffrey Clifford is silent for a moment;
then he says :

 Miss Selwyn, if I thought that any consideration
for me had influenced you in that
matter I should owe you my very deepest
thanks. You behaved like a true, good
friend, both to her and to myself. Mrs.
Levison is very lovely, as you know, and
rather imprudent; and I, like most men of
my age, am not always so careful as I ought
to be ; but I was a fool not to see the risk
she ran in going about with me alone, until

your visit opened my eyes. She related tome
what had occurred, and I perfectly acquiesced
in all you said, and am happy to
tell you that nothing worse than a domestic
quarrel took place on the occasion, and that
she will never be subjected to undergo such
a trial again on my account.'

Have you left off going to Queen's Gate,
then V asks Beta, inadvertently.

There is a little pause before he answers.

Yes ; at least, I go there very seldom,
and only when invited by Mr. Levison himself.'


I am so glad !' cries Betha in her innocence.


*Miss Selwyn,' says her companion, gravely,

I sincerely trust you never imagined I had
any feeling for your friend beyond that of a
mere acquaintance.'

 Then Beta grows confused. She has
thought so, beyond all doubt, but she cannot
acknowledge it in the face of his denial.

I am very glad you have not she replies,
with greater fervour than is necessary.

You cannot be more glad than I am he
says, regarding her beautiful face with the
keenest interest. * I could have borne anything
better than your suspicion. It would
have robbed my present engagement of all
its charm.'

How would it have affected that ?'

Cannot you guess, Miss Selwyn, ivy I
have come to the Marlborough ? I have
been asked to do so again and again during
the last few years, but there was no attraction
here sufficiently powerful to make me
fall in with the manager's views. It was the
prospect alone of supporting you that made
me accept Henderson's offer now.'

*0h, Mr. Clifford! was it really  says
Beta, blushing with pleasure.

 Can you doubt it 1 Have our long talks,
then, on our art and the delight of cultivating
it led you to no better conclusion ? You

have heard me say that my soul lies in my
profession  that to succeed there is the only
end and aim of my existence. Do you suppose
I could find a greater or more subtle
pleasure than to walk hand in hand with one
who cherishes the same aspirations, the same
ambition as myself, and who will urge me
on by example and precept to attain the
highest heights of which my nature is capable.'


No, no ! It is I who must learn of you
replies Beta, eagerly. 'Think how much
more experienced an actor you are than
myself

We will teach each other and inspire each
other,' says Geoffrey Clifford ;  and we will,
if you please, drop the subject of Mrs. Levi-son
from this time forward. She is a very
lovely young woman, but she is not very
sensible ; and I, for one, do not consider the
loss of her friendship in the light of a misfortune.'


Mat tie is not clever, but she was always
very sweet to me  until this unfortunate
business occurred,' says Beta.

She has proved her utter folly, in being
incapable of appreciating your worth,' replies
Geoffrey Clifford.

And at this juncture the exigencies of the
stage demand the cessation of their conversation.
I

Beta goes home from that rehearsal in a.
wonderful state of content. She is not only
delighted to find that no real danger is likely
to accrue from the imprudence of her poor
friend Mattie Levison, and that Mr. Clifford
does not seem to care for her a bit more than
he ought to do ; but her girlish heart is
elated by the praise which he has bestowed
upon her own acting, and the prospect he has
held out of their working together to attain
the highest paths of the profession to which
the ]are mutually devoted. She bursts into
the Henderson' little parlour with her head

and heart aglow with hope and ambition ;
and feels as if a bucket of cold water had
suddenly been thrown on her ardour when
some one comes forward eagerly to give her
greeting, and she finds her hand grasped in
that of Bobby Free.

*WHAT DO YOU MEAN?'

They have been parted now for four whole
months ; yet Beta's first feeling in meeting
him again is one of dire disappointment.
Rob has not been allowed to visit town this
season, his father and Lady Free, in hope
of weaning him from his ' unfortunate attachment
for a common actress have carried him
off to Scotland instead, and Beta has been
in the habit of receiving a weekly epistle
from her fiancee clandestinely posted, and
filled with lamentations over his inability
to change the decrees of destiny.

I am afraid, for her part, the ' inability' has

secretly delighted her. Decidedly, her most
prominent feeling at leaving Buton was relief
to think she should no longer be subjected
to Bobby's wearisome wooing ; and now that
he has made so sudden a reappearance, all
her old objections return in full force. She
has almost flattered herself, during these four
months of liberty, that something will intervene
to prevent their ever meeting again ;
and the sight of his ungainly figure and
shy, awkward gait inspire her with repulsion.

Oh !' she ejaculates with an uncomplimentary
start,  what a surprise you have
given me ! Why didn't you write to say
you were coming? I thought you were
hundreds of miles away.'

And you don't seem very pleased to seeme,
now I am here,' says Bobby, ruefully.

Oh yes ! I am  of course I am  why
shouldn't I be ? Only you startled me so,
and I am very tired. I have been standing
for the last three hours at a rehearsal.'

Sit down says Bobby, pushing a chair
towards her.

And what brings you to London V asks
Beta, as she takes it.

'What brings me to London, Beta? Why,
to see you. What else should bring me here ?
I have been wretched all the summer at
Kinross, longing to cut the whole business,
and get back to you ; but I couldn't manage
it, so I had to submit. But as soon as we
returned to Baron's Court, I got a letter
which has given me all I want.'

A letter, Bob !'

Yes, my darling ! I had written sometime
before, you know, to a friend, to use his
interest for me, and he did it so well, that I
have got an appointment in the city, and I
am going to live in London for good and
all.'

An appointment in the city !' repeats
Beta, vaguely.

To hear that Bobby has returned to her

side * for good and all is startling news
enough ; but what should he (who has as
much pocket-money as he can possibly desire)
want with an appointment in the city ?

It's quite true, darling. Messrs. ,
of Leadenhall Street, have given mea
situation as clerk in their firm, at one
hundred and twenty pounds a year, and I
shall never part with you again, Beta 
never so long as I live.'

'But, Bob  what can you want with a
hundred and twenty pounds a year T says
Beta, quickly. ' You  who have always
had as much money from your father as you
could require, without working for it at all ?
Surely you have enough new coats and
trousers and ties to satisfy even your ambition
! Blanche Chapman and I used to
say that you were the most extensively got-up
young man of our acquaintance.'

But do you suppose I want nothing more
than coats and trousers and ties, Beta !'

says Bobby, reproachfully. ' My father has
been liberal enough hitherto, I allow ; but he
would soon stop my allowance if he knew I
was spending any part of it upon a wife.
And that is what I am going to work and
strive for, Beta.'

She moves her chair a little further from
him. She seems to be afraid of what this
melting mood may result in.

But that is nonsense, Bob ! You will not
be able to marry for years and years to come.
You had much better have waited till your
own money came to you in its proper time.'

Do you think so, Beta ? Don't say it.
Plenty of young people begin life on no more
than one hundred and twenty pounds a year;
and I am sure we could make it do, if we
tried. And I will help you, dear, and work
as hard as ever I can, in order to increase our
income.'

Bob ! What do you mean?'

I mean that I want you to marry me !

You promised to do so, you know ! You
promised that when I had enough to support
you on, you would leave the stage, and be
my wife. Now didn't you V

Leave the stage, and be his wife! Give up
her profession, just as her ardent study is
about to bring forth fruit ! Quit the boards !
Quit the comrades she loves so well ! Quit
Geoffrey Clifford ! No, Beta feels it is
impossible I Art claims her, and she will be
wedded to no one else.

But we cannot ! What would Lady
Free and Sir Willoughby say V she exclaims.

I shall not ask them,' replies Bob, indignantly.
' I have carved out my own path
now, and mean to stick to it ! For what
else do you suppose that I have accepted a
clerkship, except to be near you and have
the right to protect you. Beta dearest I
do not say I have had all my trouble in
vain

By this time the girl has recovered herself.

Oh no, Bob ! we shall be together, as
you say, and be able to see each other very
often ! And it was very good of you to take
it  very good  and all for my sake, too !'

'And you will not leave the stage then,
and marry me '? You promised to do so,
remember I'

The girls breath comes quick and gasping.

Did I promise ? Yes, yes ! I remember
I did, but I did not think then it could
possibly be until your grandmother's death I
And now  how is it to be managed ? Who
could live on a hundred and twenty pounds
a year ! And you would not wish me to
leave the stage, Kob ! Not now  when I
have just began to make a name for myself!'

You shall not be on it a single day after
you are my wife !' replies Bobby, gloomily.

Who is talking about my wife !' says Mr.
Henderson, entering the room. * She's
calling you, Miss Selwyn  I heard her just
now.'

I will go to her directly. This is a friend
of mine, Mr. Henderson  Mr. Free. He
has just come up to town, and called to seeme.*


Humph !' says Mr. Henderson, who does
not approve of his pupils receiving visits
from gentlemen. ' Glad to see you, sir !
Well, I'll go and look after the old woman,
Beta, and you can follow me when you have
done entertaining Mr. Free.'

As soon as the stage-manager has disappeared,
Beta turns to her companion, her
eyes sparkling with glee.

Bob, you forgot one thing ! I am apprenticed
to Mr. Henderson for the next
three years I I cannot leave the stage without
his permission. I am not sure if I could
marry without his consent.'

You don't mean to tell me that !' cries
poor Bobby ; and he couples the observation
wdtli an epithet that is more strong than
polite in its reference to the absent manager.

VOL. II. 29

I won't have yon talk of Mr, Henderson
in that way,' says Beta, indignantly. 'He
has been kindness itself to me, and so has his
wife, and I love and respect them more than
any friends I have in the world. Where
should I have been now if they had not taken
me up ? A wretched drudging teacher most
likely, in some second-rate school ! Rob, you
ought to be ashamed of yourself!'

I wish you were a " wretched teacher,"
as you call it, Beta, and then you would
be more ready, perhaps, to accept the offer I
make you.'

Do you mean to say that you have no
ambition for me nor yourself,' exclaims the
girl, ' that you would rather I were a nobody
without brains, than Elizabeth Selwyn of the
Marlborough Theatre ? You should see the
houses I draw nightly, and read the criticisms
on my acting. But I don't believe you ever
look at the newspapers, Kob !'

Yes, I do ! and it drives me wild to seethe

way in which they presume to comment
on your face, and your dress, and your acting !
And then to think of the fellows who play
with you  dangling about, and touching your
hand and your waist ! You don't know what
it is, Beta, for anyone who loves you as I
do, to think of such things as these

Poor Rob !' the girl says softly  but she
speaks with a pitying smile. Her heart is
filled with the ambition to succeed  her head
ringing with the flattery of honeyed words.
She cannot realise what her stage triumphs
look like to the man who has given up all
the luxuries of his home, to drudge on a
three-legged stool for her sake. ' You must
come to-night and see me play Juliet,' she
continues, coaxingly. ' You will alter your
opinion then, and be as glad as I am of my
success. '

But the event does not justify her words.
Bobby does go to the play as she proposes,
and gazes at first with unmitigated delight

292

on the apparition of beauty which Beta
presents to him, clad in white satin and pearls,
and decked in the modesty of her genius as
with a garment.

But from the moment that the handsome
Geoffrey Clifford  a typical Romeo  steps
upon the stage, and proceeds to make violent
love to Juliet, Bobby spends two 
hours of agonising jealousy, which make
him thirst for revenge on the hapless hero of
the piece. He will not wait to see Beta
afterwards, but rushes home to his humble
lodgings, half crazy with pain and disappointment,
and wondering (for the first time) if he
has been rash in opposing the wishes of his
father and grandmother, and insisting upon
carving out a path in life with his own
hands. His unaccustomed labour appears
twice as hard and distasteful to him on the
following morning, with no bright hope that
Beta will soon be his own, to help him on
his way. But still she is his  so the boy

argues  she has never denied his claim upon
her, and she is too good and honourable to
break her plighted word. So that when her
apprenticeship with Mr. Henderson is ended
there are but two more years of it to run 
he may confidently expect that she will
become his wife. And meanwhile he will
work for her  work hard and courageously
that he may have a more suitable home to
osier her, when the times comes in exchange
for the brilliant life she will resign for his
sake. And so the brave heart of Robert
Free  braver and more faithful than Beta
in her innocence of love has any idea of 
settles itself down to an existence so different
from what he has been accustomed to, and so
uncongenial to his feelings, that the strength
of his attachment to her could alone give
him the patience to persevere.

Every now and then he meets her ; sometimes
(not often) he visits the theatre, and
sometimes he takes her out for a walk ; and

she still considers herself his betrothed, and
is as innocently gay vith him, and as free
from anything like passion, as she \ as on the
first day of their acquaintance.

But she has no idea of the depth of
his feelings for her, no notion of the sacrifice
he has made for her sake, no glimpse of what
he suffers or regrets : Bobby is too generous
to let her see it. She thinks he is a very
stupid boy to prefer working in a city office
to living down at Baron's Court with his
horses, and dogs, and gamekeepers : and all
for the sake of seeing her occasionally.

How can he be so silly ? she asks him
sometimes, with a merry laugh ; why doesn't
he go home again and visit his father and
grandmother, and bring her back a hamper
full of the lovely flowers in which she so
much delights ?

And Bobby smiles and shakes his head,
and gazes at her with all his soul in his soft
brown eyes, as he declares that he would not

leave the place that contains her, for all the
pleasures she alludes to, repeated a thousandfold.
But he never tells her what is the
truth  that in resolving to follow her and
win her  he has resigned the luxuries of
Baron's Court, and all the possible good that
might accrue to him from the favour of Lady
Free, for ever ; and that he has no more the
power to return to his home and his parents
than she has.

you KNOW THAT YOU ARE MINE.'

There is no doubt of the successful appearance
made by Mr. Geoffrey Clifford at the
Marlborough. He was admired and run
after, whilst at the Frivolity, for his beauty
and his tenor voice ; but he appears never
to have discovered his real strength until he
supports Miss Sewlyn in a round of Shakespearian
characters. As Romeo, Hamlet,
Benedick, Bassanio, and Orlando, he takes
the town by storm. Cleverer actors have trod
the boards before him : he has a powerful
rival at the very time in an old favourite
personating the same heroes at another

theatre. But the favourite is old, and Clifford
is young ; the favourite has no beauty, and
Clifford is handsome as a star ; the favourite
has contracted mannerisms, and become
stage,' and Clifford is fresh, if somewhat
crude, and looks his part though he may not
be perfect in its personation. And so the
crowd follows him. The women worship in
his train, and the pit and gallery transform
him to a demi-god.

His photographs sell faster than they can
be struck off; young ladies carry them in
their bosoms, and sleep with them under
their pillows ; old ladies spend half their
incomes in private boxes that they may gaze
at him from behind a curtain; and more
bouquets and billets-doux are left at the
stage-door for him in one night, than Beta
receives in a week.

She rallies him often on the reception of
these love-tokens, and he casts the flowers
and letters to one side with an assumption of

indifference or contempt that greatly delights
her. For these two have become fast
friends  or what the girl at least considers to
be so  and think themselves entitled in consequence
to each other's confidence. Their
intimacy provokes much jealousy amongst
the other ladies of the Marlborough, who
think it quite bad enough that Miss Selwyn
a nobody from Buton  should come to
town to take all the leading parts out of their
hands, without appropriating the best-looking
fellow in the theatre into the bargains.

Geoffrey Clifford is quite as much adored
within the four walls of the Marlborough as
by the public, and since he is on familiar
terms with no one of the company except
Beta, that young lady is compelled to listen
to a orreat deal of talk that o-oes on in the
dressings-room reo-ardino: him, and is raised
simply with the view to her annoyance.

Miss Fanny Price, a pretty girl who plays
in the farce, and has wasted a great deal of

her time and a great roan of her smiles on
Mr. Clifford without effect, is more bitter
against him than the rest, and never loses an
opportunity of saying something spiteful in
Beta's presence.

La ! the fuss people make about that
fellow !' she exclaims on one occasion, ' is
perfectly sickening. / can't see his good
looks ! His features are '* dolly," to my
mind. But some girls will run after anything.
Montgomery Warren was twice as
good an actor as Clifford, but there were
only twenty-five pounds in the house on his
benefit night, and Clifford last week had
seventy ! And then they talk about worshipping
Art ! Rubbish ! it's his pretty face
they come to see  not his talent.'

But Mr. Clifford has talent,' retorts
Beta, in defence of her absent friend ; ' Mr.
Henderson says he is "the coming man,"
and there is no doubt of his power to
'' draw." '

Ah my dear ! Henderson will say anything
if there's money to be made out of it.
He is famed for setting up golden calves for
the public to fall down and worship. Clifford
has got money at his back somewhere  there's
no doubt about that.'

Money at his back !' says Beta with
open e'es.

Of course ! Some old dowager, most
likely, who is smitten by his handsome face,
and pays Henderson a good round sum to
keep him here, where she can come and look
at him without restraint. Haven't you seen
the old woman in a wig who occupies the
royal box almost every night ? That is she,
most likely ; and now I come to think of it,
Clifford generally bows in her direction. You
look out for her this evening. She is sure to
be there.'

Mr. Clifford would not be so mean and
contemptible as to owe his success to anything
but his own merit,' cries Beta, indignantly.

What should he want with anybody's
money ? He can make enough for himself.'


Well, you needn't get so warm over it,'
exclaims Miss Fanny ; ' it is no concern of
yours, anyway. But you'll never tell me
you're such an innocent as not to have heard
of such things. How do you suppose half
the people get on the stage nowadays, except
through interest. We'd all be taking
the lead if it wasn't for that.'

I had no interest,' says Beta, with
flaming cheeks.

Hadn't you, my dear ? Well, you're
quite right to keep the secret if you had.
Anyway, you may take your oath Clifford
didn't walk on the stage of his own accord.
I believe he's married to that old dowager
with the wio. I've seen him driving with
her in the Park. And Geoffrey Clifford isn't
his own name, that I know.'

That is more than probable,' says Beta.

Selwyn is not my name either. Some
people have friends and relations who object
to their using their own names ; and no one
can speak to Mr. Clifford without seeing that
he comes of a good family. Every word
and gesture shows that he is a gentleman.'


Dear me ! I haven't been in the habit of
observing his words and gestures so closely
as all that, but I dare say you are right. So
am I about the dowager. Wait a bit and
you'll find it out for yourself

Beta despises herself for attaching any
importance to the words of a silly girl like
Fanny Price, but they rankle in her mind
nevertheless. She could not bear, so she
thinks, to see her friend Geoffrey Clifford
lowered in her esteem. She does not believe
the tales she has heard concerning him,
and yet she catches herself looking out for
the old lady in the wig, and wondering, each
time Mr. Clifford leaves the stage, whether

he has gone round to her box, and if it can
possibly be true that he accepts the patronage
of anyone. The Shakespearian drama is relieved
after a while by plays of a lighter
character, preceded and followed by a farce.
One night, as the curtain falls upon ' Money
and the stage is cleared for ' Lend Me Five
Shillings Fanny Price meets Beta at the
wings.

Well, my dear, and what do you think of
your Sir Galahad now V she says.

I don't know Who you mean,' replies
Beta, coldly.

Oh yes, you do. I mean Geoffrey Clifford.
Look at the dowager's box when the
rag " goes up again, and you'll believe what
I told you. He went straight round to it, and
is sitting behind the curtain with her now.'

It is nothing to me with whom Mr. Clifford
chooses to sit,' retorts Beta,  nor
who are his friends. I wish you would not
talk such nonsense, Fanny.'

Yet, if it is nothing to her, it is strange
that she should take the trouble, whilst the
farce is on, to stand at the wings and scrutinise
the house, until she lights upon the
object of her search.

There he is, sure enough, half concealed
behind the curtain of the dowager's box.

Beta cannot see his face, but she knows
him by his well-shaped hand ; by a habit he
has contracted of impatiently jerking his
knees whilst engaged in conversation, and by
the furtive glimpse she catches of the back of
his close-shorn head. She recognises each
trifling proof of the presence of her friend,
yet cannot recognise the reason of her perspicuity.
She gazes at the curtain Which
conceals him for a few moments in silence,
and then, convinced that Miss Fanny Price
has spoken the truth at least in one particular,
Beta turns quietly away to the dressing-room,
and having changed her attire, returns
home.

The little house seems empty. Mr.
Henderson is still busy at the theatre ; his
wife has retired to bed, and the sleepy maidservant
who sits up to let Beta in, disappears
almost simultaneously to her own sleeping
apartment.

The girl feels utterly alone to-night. She
enters the room where supper is laid ready
for her, and having divested herself of her
outdoor garments, sits down languidly by the
table, resting her head upon her hand. Her
heart is weighted with a heavy load, though
she hardly knows why ; she cannot shake off
the oppression that burdens her ; she feels as
if some dreadful calamity had suddenly overshadowed
her young life.

At last the solitude and the disappointment
and the doubts produce their effect
upon her, and she bursts into a flood of tears.
A moment later Beta is reproaching herself
for such an act of weakness, but the traces of
her emotion are still plainly visible when a

VOL. II. 30

knock sounds upon the front door. She
brushes her tears hastily away as she rises to
answer it. She supposes it to be Mr.
Henderson, who may have forgotten his
latch-key ; but on the threshold of the
opened door, to her surprise, stands Geoffrey
Clifford.

Miss Selwyn, I am sorry to trouble you,
but you have my part for to-sorrows rehearsal
in your pocket. You put it away forme
after the second act.'

Yes, I remember it well. How silly of
me to forget to leave it for you at the stage-door
!' replies Beta, as she turns into the
sitting-room and produces the manuscript
from a pocket in her cloak.

Geoffrey Clifford takes the paper from
her, but does not release the hand that
proffered it.

What have you been crying for?' he asks
abruptly, as he sees her clear greys eyes
glistening in the gaslight.

Nothing ! I was silly  over-tired,' she
answers. ' The tongues in that dressing-room
never cease. It's enough to weary-anyone
to listen to them.'

I can quite imagine that he says, laughing
;  but hardly that they possessed sufficient
power, in themselves, to upset my
strong-minded little friend. They might
have made 30 u impatient and angry, but not
moved you to tears ! No, Beta ! it is
something more than that. Now, what
is it V

His manner is somewhat dictatorial, and
her first impulse is to deny the charge, and
his right to make it. But the next moment
her heart questions why she should conceal
her interest in him as a friend and prevent
his refutation of the charges brought against
him. So she recovers her hand from his
grasp, but looks him honestly in the face as
she replies :

I don't think I should have been so foolish

302

as to cry if I had not been rather tired ; but
it really was Fann}'- Price's nonsense that
upset me. She will insist, Mr. Clifford, that
you only hold your present position in the
Marlborough because you have money (as
she calls it), at your hack;' and that the
lady in whose box you were sitting to-night
has paid Mr. Henderson a ' good round sum"
in order to keep you there. And it is so
derogatory to art and your talent  and 
and  everything,' continues Beta, faltering,
and conscious that she has not got very
cleverly out of her scrape ; ' and the last
thing one would like to think of a friend,

and so  so '

So this kind little girl felt the implied
degradation for me, and honoured it with
her tears says Mr. Clifford, repossessing
himself of Beta's hand. 'Thank you,
Beta, a thousand times ! And now, how
am I to exculpate myself from such a
charge ? Which accusation-shall T answer

first r

Oil, there is no need ! Why should viii
answer them  and to me V says Beta,
blushing violently. ' I don't believe anything
against you, Mr. Clifford  nor ever shall !'

She has sat down by this time, and he has
taken another chair close by her side.

'But I think I owe it to myself to give
you some explanation. They say there is
never smoke without fire ; and though Miss
Price's tittle-tattle is not strictly true, it hasa
certain foundation.'

Beta starts.

Don't look so scared !' says Clifford, smiling.
' No lady  old or young  has paid
Mr. Henderson any money on my account ;
but I think you can scarcely have associated
with me for so long, Beta, without finding
out that I am not quite what I appear
to be.'

Of course I know you are a gentleman,'
she murmurs. ' Anyone could see that.'

I hope so ! Yes, it is true, I am a man

of birth, and I have an income into the
bargain ; not very large, but still sufficient to
prevent my depending entirely on my profession
for support. That accounts for the
money scandal, Beta ! As for the old lady
in whose box I sat for half-an-hour this
evening, I cannot tell you much about her
except that she is between sixty and seventy,
and a relation of mine who is weak enough
to take an interest in seeing me play the fool
in public'

Fanny declared you were married to her!'
says Beta, smiling through her tears.

Geoffrey Clifford starts ; and then with a
forced lauofh recovers himself.

It is untrue !' he says, shortly. ' Is that
sufficient for you, Beta V

Of course I didn't believe it !' replies the
girl, in a low voice.

And yet  you cried !'

'Yes  yes!' with much confusion, 'because
oh, can't you understand !  it seemed so

deorradinor to art : and we have been such
friends, I thought you would have told me 
and  and '

And  and ' he says, mimicking her 

and  Beta Selwyn could not bear to think
that Geoffrey Clifford liked anybody better
than herself V

Beta is silent.

Beta, do you like me veris much V

She will not answer, and there is a pause.

Oh, these dangerous pauses! Before this
one is concluded, an arm steals softly round
her lissom waist.

Mr. Clifford ! pray don't ! Indeed you
mustn't !'

My darling 1' he whispers, ' you know
you are mine !'

She is about to remonstrate with him,
Avhen Mr. Henderson's latch-key is heard in
the door, and they have only time to draw
their chairs apart before the manager enters
the room.

Hullo r he exclaims, shading his eyes
from the glare of the gas,  you here, my
boy ? Why, it is nearly one o'clock ! I
thought I should find the house shut up ;
and little Selwyn here in bed, and fast
asleep !'

Is it so late as that V cries Beta, rising
and in confusion ; ' I had no idea of it, papa !
I will say good-night to you, and go at once.'

But you haven't touched your supper,
child I'

Never mind ! I do not wish for any.
Good-night, Mr. Clifford ; goodnight, papa ;'
and without glancing at either of them, Beta
darts up to her own room.

And what may your business be V says
Mr. Henderson, looking suspiciously at Geoffrey
Clifford.

I came in to speak to you, sir,' is the
ready falsehood. ' I don't quite understand
what 1 am expected to do tomorrow.'

'Don't you? I thought I put it plain

enough ; and the calls were posted this afternoon.
Full rehearsal of " A Hundred Thousand
Pounds " at ten, and the second act of
*' Lady of Lyons " at four, for the benefit of
the new " Widow Melnotte." Now, do you
understand V

Yes, thanks, perfectly ! And so I will
wish you good-night, Mr. Henderson.'

Good-night, my boy !' says the manager,
stoutly.

He accompanies his visitor to the hall-door,
and sees him over the threshold; but
before he turns his back, he speaks again :

Look here, Clifford ! One word with
you, my boy ! Always glad to see you here,
you know, and all that sort of thing; but
don't you get playing the fool with Beta
Selwyn, because she's under my charge, and
I can't allow it.'

Do you suppose I should do such a
thing V replies Geoffrey Clifford awkwardly,
as he walks down the street.

Meanwhile Beta, still undressed, is lying
on her bed, face downwards, with a vast
new feeling pervading her breast.

Geoffrey Clifford's words, his looks, his
touch (the closest touch he has ever given
her off the stage), have suddenly revealed to
her the possibility of a new life, of an experience
hitherto undreamed of, of a dual existence
fused into one. Girls may read and
talk and think of love, but until it comes
(as a newborn child to their bosom) they
have no real conception of what it feels like.

Beta has never realised it till this moment.
But now she knows all. A single
flash of mutual understanding between Geoffrey
Clifford's eyes and her own has taught
lier the mighty secret of the world. She
understands now why she has trembled in
his embrace, although it Alas but a fictitious
one ; why she has longed, yet dreaded, that
he should touch her face  why she has

writhed beneath remarks detrimental to his
credit, and felt her blood run cold at the
mere idea that his attentions were directed
to another. She loves him !

All life seems suddenly to change beneath
the knowledge. The air is full of singing-birds
: the world is bathed in one rich glow
of morning glory : the breeze is laden with
the perfume of sweet flowers. Doubt despondency,
and loneliness have fled away,
and she is encircled by a rosy halo of hope,
trust, and perfected ambition.

Beta ponders on the marvels which one
little sentence has revealed to her, until she
sheds happy tears of excitement and joy at
the prospect of the future. To-morrow 
tomorrow will rise as no day has ever risen
for her yet, crowned with the love of Geoffrey
Cliflbrd and her own heart. At ten
o'clock they will meet again  not as they
have met before, but with a mutual understanding
that can never be recalled.

As the girl thinks thus, and rises, with
flushed cheeks and glistening eyes, to perform
her toilet for the night, a letter on the
dressing-table attracts her notice. It has
arrived during her absence at the theatre,
and been placed there by the servant. She
turns it over carelessly, though with fingers
that still tremble. The address is in the
handwriting of her betrothed husband, Robert
Free !

Beta drops the letter as though it had
the power to sting her, and sitting down
upon the bed again, covers her face with her
hands, and trembles as though smitten by
the ague.

The night that follows is a miserable one.
A thousand times does the unhappy girl try
to convince herself that she is not really
bound to marry Robert Free, and that it
would be a cruel thing of him to take advantage
of a promise wrested from her at a
period when she had no idea of the solemnity
of the pledge she gave. But no reasoning
can do away with the fatal truth  he
has her plighted word, and she must not
break it.

When Beta has once convinced herself of
her responsibility, she rises to the occasion

like a true heroine. Every action of her Hfe
hitherto has proved her to be a strong-minded
girl, and her noble nature does not
fail her now. She thinks long and earnestly
of her mother  her dear dead mother, whom
she loved so fondly, and who suffered so
much  and tries to realise what her counsel
would be in the present emergency. How
would she advise her to act ?

Beta knows more of her mother's heart-history
now than she did at the moment of
her death. Her own experience of the
troubles of life has opened her eyes to the
sorrows of the dead. No one has spoken
further to her on the subject ; in what shape
the trouble came (excepting that it was connected
with Mrs. Wallerton) is still rather
doubtful to her, but of the fact that her
mother's heart was broken and her father's
infidelity had something to do with it, Beta
is quite assured. And shall she follow in
his footsteps and be unfaithful too ? Shall

she cause her mother, looking down upon
her, perhaps, at that very moment, to blush
for the child she brought into the world, and
feel she is more her husband's daughter than
her own ?

No ! Beta waxes strong and resolute in
the determination that it shall not be. It
costs her many tears to arrive at this conclusion
; the prospect of a life spent with
Robert Free appears more distasteful than
it has ever done before ; but if to fulfil the
promise she has made him proves too difficult
a task for her, she will at least not break
it for the sake of another man.

By the time the morning dawns she has
made up her mind what is the right thing todo,
and resolved that the first sentence of love
Mr. Clifford has dared to breathe into her
ears shall be the last. She even sits down
before she leaves her chamber, and with a
trembling' hand writes a kind little note to
Bobby, telling him she has received his

letter, and making an appointment to walk
with him upon the following day. And then
she descends to breakfast, with the feelings
of a martyr led out to execution, but determined
at all costs to do the right, and stick
to it.

Mr. and Mrs. Henderson both remark her
pallor and demand the cause, but get little
satisfaction for their pains. Beta talks and
laughs as usual, is as attentive to their little
wants as ever, and trips off to rehearsal without
a single hint that she has spent half the
night in tears.

Geoffrey Clifford (usually noted for his
punctuality) is on the stage when she
arrives, and evidently looking out for her.
Beta gives him a passive hand for greeting,
and without raising her eyes to his, passes
to her own place.

It is a first rehearsal, and, consequently,
rather an irregular one. The actors are
simply reading their parts and taking up

their positions, and Mr. Clifford has a dozen
opportunities of meeting Beta at the wings,
or following her about the stage. But she
will not speak to him except in monosyllables.
She is always busily employed upon her
book. At last he gets impatient and somewhat
angry.

'What is the matter, Beta 1 Are you
offended with me? You have not spoken
ten words this morning.'

I am so busy, Mr. Clifford ; J have no
time for talking. I do not know a line of
this part.'

Hang the part ! You know you are so
quick at study that it will not take you an
hour to be * word-perfect." '

Is there any reason I should not study it
now?'

Yes ; an unanswerable reason. I want
to talk to you. Our conversation was cut
short last night by that old bore Henderson.

VOL. II. 31

Can't you imagine how eager I am to finish
it?'

That conversation had better never have
been begun, Mr. Chord,' says the girl,
gravely, ' and I am sure it had better never
be finished.'

What do you mean V

'That I was wrong to let you say so much,
and that it must never be again. Pray
forget that I listened to such words from
you,' replies Beta, with a face uf crimson.

That is impossible !' exclaims the young
man, impetuously ; ' I read my answer in
your eyes last night, and I shall not be
satisfied till I have heard it from your
lips.'

He is about to say more, when the managerial
voice orders him loudly to attend to
business, and he is compelled to leave her
and go through the scene. Whilst he is
absent Beta cogitates earnestly with her
heart what to say to him next ; and when he

rejoins her, she is brave enough to renew the
subject of her own accord.

'Mr. Clifford !' she commences, with Hps that
try hard not to tremble, * I must speak to
you seriously on this subject. 'I ought
to have told you long ago, what would have
prevented your speaking to me as you did
last night  I am engaged to be married I'

She expects that he will be terribly taken
aback by this news, but although he looks
surprised and annoyed, Geoffrey Clifford bears
the shock uncommonly well.

Who to ?' he asks abruptly.

To Mr. Free. I have been engaged to
him for some months past, and unless he releases
me from my promise of his own
accord, I can never marry another man  nor
must I allow anyone to speak to me, as  as 
you spoke to me yesterday evening !'

Is this Mr. Free such a terrible ogre,
then V

The careless question shocks her delicacy.

312

and should have opened her eyes to the
nature of the man who addresses her. But
where a passionate love has blinded the vision,
even vices become transformed to virtues.
The words stagger Beta, but they do not
disenchant her.

Oh no !  just the contrary  he is very
kind and good to me !' she stammers ; ' but 
don't you see I cannot  I onus not  it would
be so wrong, so dishonourable of me to say
or do anything behind his back which I would
not do before his face.'

Of course ! You are perfectly right, and
I understand all you would wish me to do !
But, Beta, this engagement (or whatever
you may call it) is not to prevent you having
a friend, is it V

Oh no.'

 You are not going to cast me off because
you have found somebody better, eh V

I didn't say he was better  only  he has
my promise T

Just so ! and I think you promised once
also to be my friend.'

And I am your friend, Geoffrey  I mean
Mr. Cliflbrd  you know I am

T hope so ! But why not *' Geoffrey" ?
Is that one of the words of which this terrible
Mr. Free would not approve ?'

I don't know ! I have not asked him
replies Beta, timidly ; * only  I think it will
be better I should not call you so.'

Does it sound too dangerous ! Do you feel
as if it would bring us too closely together V

The girl cannot answer him. Her eyes are
swimming in tears, and there is a choking
sensation in her throat.

'My darling!' says Geoffrey Clifford for
the second time, in a bold impassioned
whisper, as he stoops over her. ' Not all the
Mr. Frees in the world shall prevent my
calling you that ! I have your heart  you
cannot deny it  let who will claim the promise
of your hand I'

'l DECLINE TO ANSWER.'

After this second declaration on the part of
Geoffrey Clifford, a regular warfare commences
between him and Beta Durant, which
threatens to undermine their friendship and
leave her sitting on the ruins alone. All her
efforts are to avoid him, except upon the
stage ; all his, to pursue and speak to her. He
refuses to restrain himself from addressing
her in terms which she considers derogatory
to her dignity, and the girl, conscious of her
own feelings regarding him, is so fearful of
betrayal, that she becomes nervous if they
are left together for eve minutes at the wings.

Anxious also to render her sacrifice and her
loyalty as complete as possible, she takes, at
this juncture, almost to courting Bobby Free,
a proceeding which sends that honest young
fellow ' off his head,' and causes the warmth
of his wooing so materially to increase, that
Beta shrinks back in alarm and reproaches
herself more than ever for the double duplicity
of which she is guilty. The poor child's
heart is torn in pieces between her love and
what she thinks her duty !

To permit Bobby Free to touch her lips
and hold her hands, when her whole soul
is at the feet of Geoffrey Clifford appears a
sacrilege; and yet to let Clifford gaze into her
eyes as though he would penetrate her very
being, whilst she is betrothed to Mr. Free,
lowers her in her own estimation, until she
wishes never to see either of them again. She
becomes almost a stranger in the theatre.

From having spent half her time upon the
boards and in the green-room, she falls into

the habit of never appearing there except on
business, which she executes as promptly as
is possible. On spare afternoons she takes
long and formal walks with Robert Free,
or invites him to spend the hours with her
in Mrs. Henderson's little parlour, where
they sit opposite to one another in the most
decorous manner, discussing the ordinary
topics of the day, and where (as Bobby has
found to his cost) if he attempts to put a lesser
distance between himself and the lady of his
love, Beta is apt to fly from him altogether,
and shut herself up in the recesses of her
own chamber. And yet if he takes his leave
(as he mostly does) with a look and air of
dire disappointment at the coolness of her
behaviour, the poor child has a fit of crying
as soon as he is out of sight, and calls herself
by every harsh name she can think of,
for finding it so impossible to love him.

And then she will prepare for the theatre,
with a heart burnings at the mere thought of

meeting Geoffrey Clifford, and ready to standstill
at the first glimpse of his countenance
or sound of his voice. As may be imagined,
this continual internal warfare is the very
worst thing for an excitable and emotional
girl like Beta Durant. Her mental
struggles soon produce an effect upon her
physical constitution, and she becomes pale
and thin and nervous.

It is now autumn : the season is past andover
: all the fashionables are out of town :
but the Marlborough still keeps its doors
open, and the house is crowded nightly.
There is no prospect of getting a holiday, and
Beta has settled herself down to a very dull
routine of work, when one morning, as she is
sitting quietly at home, she is much startled
by receiving the card of Mrs. Levison, and
beinor told that she is waiting downstairs to
see her.

The lady wants to speak with you, very
particular indeed, miss,' is the servant's

addendum to the news, ' and if you're busy
now, she'll wait until you've done I'

Beta does not hesitate a moment as to
what she shall do. She has always been fond
of Mattie, and bears no malice in her honest
heart. She thinks that her friend's presence
there can hold but one meaning  a wish to
make up the quarrel between them  aid
Beta is quite ready to forget and forgive.
So she runs downstairs with all speed, and
enters the room with a glowing face.

I was sure that sooner or later you would
come to see me again, Mattie !' she exclaims,
as she advances with an out-stretched hand.

But Mrs. Levison does not meet her halfway.
She is standing on the hearthrug,
dressed in the most extravagant costume of
velvet and sable, her lovely face shaded by
a ruby-coloured hat, and a drooping plume of
feathers.

I don't think you will consider my visita
pleasant one,' she answers coldly.

What is the matter now ?' cries Beta.

Mattie is not a clever woman ; she has no
idea of circumspection, nor of arriving at
the truth by a circuitous route. So she rushes
on to the attack at once.

 The matter now !' she repeats loudly.
Oh, you false hypocritical girl ! What did
you say to me in my own house, the very
last time we met there, when I asked you if
you wanted to keep Mr. Clifford for yourself 
that you lucre engaged to Mr. Free, So
very grand, indeed ! Engaged to Mr.
Free ! As if that made any difference to
your conduct with the other man, though I
suppose you thought you'd keep it dark.
But I've heard all about it. You are talked
of in connection with Mr. Clifford, far and
near. I heard of you, even at Dieppe,
where I have been spending the summer ;
and now that I come back to town, I find
your names are in everybody's mouth. You

and Mr. Clifford, mind, not yoa and Mr.
Free ! Oh, you Wicked, false girl !'

During this coarse attack Beta has
stood silent, though she has turned very
pale. She knows that great liberties are
often taken with the names of women of
her profession  that wicked and untrue
stories are bandied about concerning them,
because they are considered the public
property of any tongue that chooses to misinterpret
their actions ; but she has been so
particular, so reticent in her own conduct, it
has never fallen to her lot to be accused
of any imprudence before. She has never
thought it possible she could be so accused.
And all the force of her nature rises to the
surface at Mattie's words, and makes her rebel
against their insolence and their injustice.

 How dare you speak to me like this '/
she says determinately. * By what right do
you come here to insult me by the repetition
of a falsehood V

But is it a falsehood ? that is the questions
interposes Mrs. Levison, shrilly ;  I
don't believe it, for one I You tried all you
could to get him away from me  you did
not wish me to have him even as a friend 
and only because you were so anxious for
my welfare ! And yet, directly he comes to
the Marlborough, you set up a flirtation with
him yourself that makes you the talk of the
town. What have you to say to that V

Nothing, Mattie ! In the first place I
owe no explanation to you of anything I
may choose either to do or say. You are not
my judge, and Mr. Cliflbrd is not your
property. You and your friends may think
what they like about me. Mine know that
I have done nothing to incur their reproaches.'


That is according to the light in which
your friends may regard such scandalous proceedings,'
says Mattie.

There is no proceeding more scandalous

than for a married woman to receive a lover
under her husband's roof,' retorts Beta. * I
have no doubt, because I troubled myself to
remonstrate with you upon the matter, that
you imagine I had something to do with
Mr. Clifford giving up his intimacy v/ith you.
But it is not the case. He told me of his
own accord that he never visited you now,
excepting on the invitation of your husband.'


Oh ! Geoffrey told you so, did he !' exclaims
Mrs. Levison. ' Well, then, it isn't
true. He comes to see me frequently 
whenever he has an opportunity, in fact 
and we dined together tete-astute only last
Sunday. You may make what you like of
that.'

There are some women so vain and greedy
of a reputation for making conquests, that
they will destroy their own characters rather
than incur the reproach of having lost their
power to charm. And Mattie Levison, under

the baneful influence of a mercenary marriage,
has come to this. It would be untrue to assert
that Beta is not affected by her intelligence.
She feels it keenly, but she will not show it.
Her next words are delivered as calmly as
before.

You ought to be very much ashamed to
acknowledge it, Mattie ; but since it is so, I
am at a loss to imagine why you have taken
the trouble to come here and accuse me of
what must (according to your own account)
be untrue. If Mr. Clifford is still yom friend
and admirer, he can be in no danger from
me.'

I don't know that, Beta. Men are such
fools, they will be taken in by anybody, and
you are clever enough for a dozen women.
But I'll expose you, as sure as my name is
Mattie Levison. I will go to Mr. Free and
tell him the whole story. It will sound well
for him to hear that his Jiancee is carrying
on, at every opportunity, with another man.'

Beta is now fairly roused.

You may tell Mr. Free what you choose,'
she answers angrily. ' You cannot make any
accusation against me that will not rebound
upon yourself.'

You do not deny, then, that you are in
love with Geoffrey Clifford V

The blood pours in a crimson wave over
Beta's face and neck as she replies :

I am answerable to no one but myself for
anything I may do or say, and I decline to
answer any questions on the subject.'

Your face proves your guilt !' exclaims
Mrs. Levison. * It is shameful  disofustinsr 
outrageous ! Everything that I have heard
is true, and you are a false-hearted friend and
lover !'

Mattie ! I shall not stay here to receive
any further insults at your hands. You had
better go home  I never wish to meet you
again.'

You cannot deny that you are in love with

Geoffrey Clifford, ' persists the other woman,
stamping her foot.

I neither deny nor admit it. You have
no right to ask me such a question. And if
we meet again, it must be in the presence of
some one who can protect me from a repetition
of the insolence you have displayed today.'


And so saying, with a dignified manner
Beta passes from the room and returns to
her own apartment. But she is very hard
hit, notwithstanding the outward firmness of
her demeanour.

To hear that her name has been coupled
with that of Clifford is bad enough. To hear
that, notwithstanding his assertions to the
contrary, and his protestations of affection
for herself, he is still visiting Mrs. Levison
Without the knowledge of her husband, is
still worse. But as she sits down in solitude
to think over these things Beta does not cry.
There is a hard lump in her throat that

VOL. II. 32

threatens to impede her utterance, and a heavy-weight
upon her bosom ; but the feelings of
pride and insulted womanhood are uppermost
in her mind, and they are too powerful to
permit her to weep. She goes through the
day's duties with dry eyes, but a burning
heart, and attends the theatre in the evening
with a strong resolution not to exchange a
word, except in business, with Geoffrey Clifford.


But he is as determined to speak to her,
and if his will is not stronger than her own,
opportunity shows him the most favour.
The piece in which they appear together
is, under the circumstances, a very trying
one. It is a melodrama full of love-passages,
which must be gone through, whatever the
private feelings of the actors. Beta has
dreaded them hitherto, because they revealed
to her too plainly the depths of her own
heart. Now she dreads them because she
shrinks from the merest touch, however formal,

of Geoffrey Clifford's hand. He sees
her disinclination, and resolves to know the
cause. He will learn why her eyes refuse
to meet his own ; why her hand lies limp
and cold in his grasp ; why she will not lean
against him even in the smallest degree, but
disengages her figure from his clasp, and
stands upright, even to the ruin of their
best bits of ' business.'

Clifford is, or supposes himself to be, very
much in love with this girl. She is so different
from the women he has met hitherto 
the soft, careless, unprincipled loungers in
drawing-rooms, who are bent upon nothing
but the gratification of their own vanity and
the deception of their husbands. His handsome
face has gained him many favours in his
time from ladies of that ilk, but he has never
felt such an ardent desire to obtain anything
in this world as a genuine smile, a word of
approval, from the lips of Beta Selwyn.

This girl with the honest eyes and the

322

frank fearless smile  with a soul full of
genius and ardent aspirations, and a mind
withal so innocent (or ignorant, whichever
you will) of evil, that the most daring insinuations
are so much Greek to her  Geoffrey
Clifford would give all that he possesses to
hear Beta say she loves him ; and the more
she avoids his presence, the more determined
is he to effect her capture. Like most of his
sex, opposition only renders him more eager ;
and on this particular night, perceiving that
her greeting to him has been unusually quiet
and discreet, he pounces upon her as soon as
the piece is over, to insist upon a few moments'
conversation.

'I CANNOT BE DISHONOURABLE '/

Miss Selwyn !' he exclaims, * I must speak
to you.'

It is impossible,' she answers, coldly ; ' I
am going to my dressing-room.'

Surely you might give me a few moments
in the green-room V he urges.

'I cannot! I am tired  please let me
pass,' says Beta.

I have some business to consult you on,
of a most important nature T

To-morrow morning, then, at Mr, Henderson's
 I cannot stay to talk to you tonight,'
and Beta walks past him to the
ladies' quarter.

Clifford stands for a minute where she has
left him, biting his lips with mortification.
Then a sudden thought strikes him, and adjourning
to his own apartment, he quickly
changes his dress.

Half an hour afterwards, Beta slowly
descends to the stage-door. The cab that
nightly takes her backwards and forwards to
the theatre is waiting for her. The driver
knows her destination well  there is no need
to give him any directions  and she mechanically
takes her seat. Just as the vehicle is
moving off, however, the handle of the door
is turned, and some one jumps in beside her.

 All right r he shouts to cabby, and away
they rattle over the paved streets towards
her home.

'Mr. Clifford!' she cries in astonishment,
surely this is not you !'

Surely it is, Beta, and no other ! Now,
it is no use scolding me. I must speak to
you to-night, and I am resolved to do it.

You have made me miserable by your distant
behaviour, and I have a right to know the
cause.'

Women never like men the less for showing
a certain amount of boldness and impudence
in prosecuting their courtship. It
implies a determination to succeed, and
without determination a man is worse than a
woman I Yet (though she does not rebuke
him further for entering the cab), Beta
answers Clifford very coldly :

I deny your right to know anything that
concerns me.'

Is that the tone of friendship, Beta ?
How long is it since you promised to be my
friend ? Is that happy time quite forgotten
V

You put an end to it yourself she says,
with lips that tremble ; ' and now, I have no
wish to renew the sentiment. Friends should
be true to one another, and that is what you
have not been to me.'

In what way '? tell me the truth. You
are too just, I am sure, to condemn a man
unheard

This morning,' she says, trying to speak
indifferently, * I had a visit from Mrs.
Levison.'

Indeed ! Is she in London V

Had Beta been looking in his face at that
moment, she would have detected its change
of colour, even by the passing flare of the
gas-lamps ; but her eyes are turned the other
way, and his looks escape her notice.

Yes ! You hiotv she is in London I You
dined with her last Sunday,' she says, presently.


Did I ? Of course, now you mention it,
I did ; but Mrs. Levison's presence or absence
is a matter of such perfect indifference to me
(excepting that her chatter bores me to
extinction), that it had really almost escaped
my memory.'

Oh, Mr. Clifford ! why do you stoop to

such prevarication ! You told me some time
since that you never visited at Queen s Gate
now except on the invitation of Mr. Levison,
and yet Mattie says she sees you frequently
in fact, on every possible opportunity.'

The cab has stopped at Botha's home now,
and he helps her to alight.

Let me come in and try to exculpate myself,'
he whispers, as she passes him into the
house. The girl does not answer. She is
longing to hear him say that Mattie has lied,
although he can never be anything to herself.
And Geoffrey Clifford takes her silence as
consent.

Mrs. Levison pounced upon me last Sunday
at my chambers,' he says, as they enter
the little parlour together, 'and would not
leave them until I returned with her. She
sat in her carriage at the door, and refused to
stir until I went down to speak to her ; and
then she would take no denial, but insisted
upon my getting in, then and there, and

driving back to Queen's Gate. What could
I do ? You don't know, Beta, how hard it
is for a man, under such circumstances, to act
for the best. We cannot be rude to a lady,
and there is but one alternative  to do as she
tells you !'

Beta looks horrified at the relation.

And can Mattie have sunk so low !' she
exclaims ;  oh, I never thought she could
stoop to such an act of imprudence as that !
To visit a gentleman at his chambers ! She
must wish to lose her reputation.'

Remember, Beta, I have told you this
in confidence. Even under the seal of secrecy
I would have told it to no one but you, and
then only to exonerate myself But this does
not explain your behaviour to me this evening
i Surely, my having dined with Mrs.
Levison (however imprudently) is not sufficient
to entitle me to your anger.'

Beta's cheeks are dyed at the recollection.

No, no ! it is not that  but Mattie was

very angry : she did not visit me out of any
kindly feeling, and she accused me of things
of which I am entirely innocent ; and  and 
I can never speak to her again, Mr. Clifford
she insulted me too grossly.'

Clifford looks at the flaming cheeks and
eyes, and guesses the reason of his friend's
disturbance.

She insulted you on my account,' he says,
confidently.

Who told you so ?' exclaims Beta.

'Your eyes tell me so, my darling,' replies he;
your coolness to me this evening, your anger
against Mrs. Levison, all say the same thing.
She accused you of taking me away from her
is it not so ?  and you are annoyed at the
imputation, and resolved to visit it on my
unoffending head.'

But it is not true !' cries Beta.

It is true, my dearest ! You have taken
me away, most effectually, from every other
woman in the world I I can think and dream

of no one but yourself. I am mad with love
for you, Beta ; you see it  know it  feel it,
in every action of my life. I tremble when
I approach you; 1 am wretched when I
leave you ; I have no happiness, no peace,
except in your presence ; and T am resolved
to let no obstacle bar my way until I have
won you for myself.'

He has thrown his arms about her, and
Beta, with a heart welling over with love,
may be forgiven, even by the most upright, if
for a moment she forgets everything excepting
that she is clasped in the embrace of the
one man whom the world holds for her.

'Oh, Geoffrey!' she sighs; 'you must
not. It is impossible ! What might have
happened if we had met before, I cannot say;
but it is too late now ! I have pledged my
faith to another, and there is as great a
barrier between us as if I were already
married.'

Nonsense, "my darling ! You exaggerate

your responsibilities ! You seem to consider
an engagement irrevocable ! But even if it
were so, what odds ? Remain engaged to
Mr. Free, if it pleases you, until you find
a fair excuse to break with him : but be my
friend and lover all the same, and make me
the happiest creature upon earth.'

But that would be dishonourable,' says
Beta, as she thinks of poor Rob bending
with his short-sighted eyes over his office-work
; ' besides which, Mr. Free has given
up so much for me. Oh no ! I could never
make up my mind to break with him. He
considers our promise as binding as a
marriage.'

And so you will make me miserable
for his sake !' exclaims Geoffrey Clifford.

Oh ! what am I to do ? I cannot be
dishonourable. My mother taught me that
it is better to die of grief than do an action
unworthy of myself. Mr. Clifford ! be strong
for both of us, and show me what is right todo.

You must know everything, and I am
but a girl.'

*A girl who loves me,' cries Clifford,
triumphantly. * Can you deny it, Beta V

No  no ! I will not deny my own heart.
Geoffrey ! I do love you.'

She flints herself into his arms with a
passionate gesture for one moment, to withdraw
herself with a low cry of remembrance
the next.

It cannot be! I have sworn to marry him.
I am bound by my solemn word ! You must
never think of me in this light again, after
to-night.'

'And so you cast me off!' says Clifford.


 No  no ! I will be your friend, if you will
let me, to my life's end; but I cannot be
your wife.'

I will not have you as a friend ! you must
be my love, or we will be nothing at all
to each other,' he answers, passionately.

Then we must be nothing at all,' echoes
the low voice of the weeping girl.

He strides from the room, and opens the
front door, but returns before he has crossed
the threshold.

Beta ! Have you made up your mind ?
Are you determined to stick to this man
Free V

I must ! I cannot break my plighted word,
Geoffrey ! You would not have me dishonourable!
Pity me, but don't reproach
me!'

Remember,' he says,  that tomorrow
may be too late to change your mind. No
one knows what may happen before tomorrow.'


You will not harm yourself,' she cries,
all her tenderness made evident by her
voice.

Heaven knows what I may do ! There is
but one question I wish answered. Will you
break with Mr. Free for my sake V

 I cannot break with him,' she says,
weeping.

"Will you love me then, and let me love
you, whether you break with him or
not

Oh no  no 1 I cannot deceive him. That
would be worse than all.'

Good-bye, then !' says Clifford, shortly, ashe
passes through the hall and slams the
front door after him.

Beta sits where he has left her, stupefied,
half-paralysed, by what has passed between
them. She feels the difficulties of her
position keenly. She is bound in honour to
Robert Free, and Geoffrey Clifford loves
her 1

The first thought brings a hopeless, melancholy
feeling in its train ; but the glory of
the second almost eclipses it.

What obstacles can love not surmount ?
and Geoffrey Clifford loves her ! Something
may happen to prevent her marriage

with Robert Free  that miraculous ' something,'
in which the young and hopeful have
so much faith, until they discover it is a will-o'-the-wisp
of their imagination, and never
turns up anywhere else. Kob may die
(pleasant for poor Rob !), or get tired of waiting
for her (oh, how she wishes that he
would !), and marry some one else ; and then
all will be sunshine for herself and Geoffrey
Clifford : or, even supposing she is compelled
to marry Rob, the other  the ideal
lover, as purely imaginary as the ' something '
will be faithful to her until the first
engagement is dissolved by death, and she is
free to marry again. And meanwhile, she
will love him, and trust him, above all
creatures upon earth.

And though Beta falls to sleep that night
with tears upon her cheek, they are not
sufficient to prevent her having a happy
dream of the moment when she shall meet

VOL. II. 33

Clifford again, and hear him say that he will
accept her friendship as this world's best
good, until she is able to give him something

more.

YOU WILL RETURN TO BAROn's COURT.*

The waking is not so pleasant as the falling
sleep may have been. The dim morning's
light brings misery and depression in its
train ; the excitement of the previous evening
has faded, and with it all the glorious
probabilities that arose to soften the first
shock to a sensitive girl's heart of learning
that she loves in vain. When Beta Durant
opens her eyes on that dull November morning,
which obliges her to dress by gas-light,
the miraculous ' something' has taken wings
to itself and flown away, and nothing remains
but the heavy consciousness that she is 



gaged to be married to Bobby Free, and can
never release herself without dishonour. So
she goes downstairs in the dullest of moods,
and stares at her breakfast instead of eating
it, and is rendered still more miserable by a
letter from her Glance, in which he reminds
her that it is Saturday, and he shall call as
usual at two o'clock, to take her for a walk in
the Park.

Mr. Robert Free, son of Sir Willoughby
Free, of Baron's Court, in the county of
Somerset, and clerk in the firm of Messrs.
MacKinnon of Leadenhall Street, on a hundred
and twenty pounds a year, calls on
Saturdays at two o'clock, in consequence of
the early-closing movement, to take out Miss
Durant, daughter of Major Durant, of Morristown,
and actress at the Marlborough Theatre
on two pounds a week, for a walk in the
Park.'

Thus the silly girl goes on repeating the
circumstances of Bobby's life and her own,

and making them out as lowering and ludicrous
to both as she possibly can, until from
laughing she passes to crying, and winds up
with something very like an hysterical
attack.

So comical !' she keeps on saying, with a
curled but quivering lip ; ' so absurdly
comical, to think of a clerk out of the city
calling to take me for a walk on Saturday
afternoons. It's just like a housemaid going
out for a holiday with the young man she
keeps company with. I shall feel I am a
housemaid next, or something of the sort,
and Rob is  is  a grocer's boy ! I wonder
if he wears an apron in the office  or how
he'd look with a basket of eggs on his
arm !'

And here the stupid hysterical creature
indulges in such a mad outburst of mingled
mirth and misery that she frightens Mrs.
Henderson into the notion that she is ill, and
very nearly gets ordered back to bed for her

pains. So it comes to pass that an unusually-pale,
dispirited, and silent young lady presents
herself as the companion of Mr. Free during
that afternoon's walk, and as soon as they
have reached the shelter of the Park, her
companion calls her to account for the change.

Change ! what change V exclaims Beta.

The change in your manner, dear,' replies
Hob, affectionately ; * what has caused it ?
You are usually so bright, and have so much
to tell me of the week's doings. Are you
not feeling well to-day, Beta V

Perfectly ! But as a rule, my dear Bob,
you don't care to hear about the theatre 1
It's so vulgar and low, you know ! and my
profession is altogether so degrading. I do
not suppose anything that happens to me
there would interest you !'

Bob looks down from his superior height
and regards her from between his half-closed
eyes with a look of mingled curiosity and
pain.

It is true that I do not care for your being
an actress, Beta, and that I look forward to
no day so much as to that when I shall be
able to take you off the stage. But it does
not follow that I need lose my interest in
what happens to you whilst there. On the
contrary, my heart is always filled with
anxiety on your account

 I am sure it need not be !' replies Beta,
consciously ; ' I am quite able to take care of
myself. Bob ! besides, what's the good of it ?
Suppose I were to go worrying all day as to
what you were doing in Leadenhall Street I
why, I might wear myself to skin and bone
for nothing.'

Bob laughs.

Oh ! that is quite a different thing, darling.
/ am sitting from nine to six on a three-legged
stool, with a ledger before me, and a
pen in my hand, and speaking to no one but
my fellow-clerks. You need have no fears
for me ! No harm can happen to me there !*

Unless you go out of your mind from the
monotony ! Rob !' says Beta, suddenly,
isn't it odious work  don't you hate it from
the very bottom of your soul V

The young man colours violently and looks
distressed.

Oh, Beta, don't mention it ! I do indeed.
It is more horrible to me than I can tell you I
Fancy  me  who considered it a nuisance
even to write a letter  being shut up in a
dingy office from one day's end to another,
making entries and copying correspondence.
It is the most infernal  I beg your pardon,
Beta, I hardly know what I am saying  I
mean it is the most detestable occupation to
which a man can be put.'

Oh, Rob ! why do you submit to it T cries
the girl.

Her question recalls him to himself The
flush subsides, and there is only a slight
tremble in his voice as he replies :

I submit for your sake, Beta ! you know

the reason for which I applied for work, and
that reason will keep me to it as long as it is
necessary

'But will it be of any good, Rob?' she
asks timidly.

What do you mean ? explain yourself 1'

Shall we ever be rich enough to marry ?
You know it will be such a long, long while
first, and so many things may happen, and
you are wasting so much time

I cannot call it '' wasting " time if it
brings me nearer to you, Beta !'

But think of what you are losing, Bob !
I am sure Sir Willoughby and your grand-mamma
must be very angry with you for
leaving Baron's Court to be a common clerk
in London  and you have no horses, nor dogs,
nor shooting  and I don't believe it agrees
with you either, for you are looking very pale
and it makes me feel so guilty, keeping you
out of all these things and away from your
own people  and just for the sake of me

Beta, when my father and grandmother
refused to sanction my engagement to you, I
told them I should get work to do by which
I would gain money and make myself independent
of their approval, and they offered
no resistance to my wishes. Perhaps they
thought I should get tired of working ; but
they were mistaken. I shall never get
tired of it, however distasteful it may be,
whilst it points to the chance of our marriage.
I could not have a fairer goal, could I,
dearest V says Rob, as he presses her hand
closer to his side.

But Beta always avoids, if possible,
any demonstration of affection on her lover's
part.

But don't you miss those things. Bob V
she inquires quickly ; ' the horses and carriages,
and the good dinners, and all the
other luxuries you were accustomed to at
Baron's Court V

Yes, I miss them, I cannot deny that ;

but they are nothing to me compared to the
pleasure of being near you, Beta, and
knowing that some day we shall be man and
wife !'

Oh, but that is what I cannot bear to
think of !' cries the girl. ' That you should
go without them, I mean, for my sake 
and when it may come to nothing after
all

How can it '' come to nothing after all" V
repeats the young man, turning very white, ashe
listens to her words.

Why, so many things may happen to
prevent it. I might die, you know, or have
to leave London, or we might never have
enough money to marry on  it costs a lot to
live comfortably when you're married, you
know, E>ob  a thousand a year at least ; and
then you will have wasted all your time in
work which you hate for nothing.'

Rob is silent ; he is pacing by her side
with his eyes on the ground, as if he were

looking for something  perhaps it is the
meaning of her words.

And then it isn't nice work that you've
got  for anybody y goes on Beta in a resolute
voice ; ' very few clerks are gentlemen, and
people must stare when they hear who you
are. What must they think of it \ Sir
Willoughby Free's son in a counting-house,
with a pen behind his ear ! You had almost
as well be a grocer's apprentice ! I don't see
much difference between the two.'

Are you ashamed of me, Beta V demands
young Free, in a low voice, which
somehow makes her feel ashamed of herself


How disagreeable of you, Rob, to ask me
such a question ! Why should I be ashamed
of you, when J am only an actress myself?
But I do feel that you are placed in a false
position, and though I know you did it for
my sake, and it's awfully good of you and all
that  yet  yet '

Yet you liked me better when I was
living at Baron's Court, the prospective heir
to everything around me.'

I didn't like you better, but I am sure it
is the proper place for you to be in, particularly
as '

Particularly as ivhat ? You had better
speak out plainly to me, dear. I think I
can guess what you mean, but I should like
to hear your true mind upon this subject.'


When you speak in that tone of voice,
Rob, I don't like to tell it you ; but, now,
say the truth  do you think it is likely we
shall ever be married V

I will marry you tomorrow, Beta, if you
will consent to it.'

But that is nonsense ! You know what
I mean. Can we ever, at this rate, make
money enough to marry upon  eight
hundred or a thousand a year, you know ;
and is it any use our going on hoping and

hoping, when in the end we shall find it has
all come to nothing ? Do think of it seriously,
Rob ; and of your giving up all the comforts
of your home, and making your people angry
with you into the bargain, and tell me if you
think it is of any use V

She glances up in his face, rather shyly,
as she concludes, and is shocked to see the
look of pain which her words have called
up on it.

There is a pause between them  a pause
during which Robert Free seems to be trying
to steady his voice, and then he answers her
in a very low and gentle, but a very determined
tone.

Beta, you have always told me the truth.
Tell me the truth now. Do you want to
break off your engagement ivith me f

This direct question appeals to the girl's
honour. She cannot lie, and she cannot be
cruel, so she stammers and is silent,

I see it is difficult for you to speak out,

and that only confirms my opinion of your
wishes. But I must hear them from your
own mouth. Beta, however painful it maybe
to you, for my sake be candid, and let me
know the worst.'

Would not the worst be she says trembling,
* for me to marry you and not love you,
Kobr

Yes, yes, assuredly the worst. See ! I
will make it easier for you, dear ! I will
help you over the difficulty. You were kind
to me at Baron's Court because you were
foolish enough to think you owed me something
in return for having pulled you out of
the water, and so you consented to our engagement;
but when you came to London
and  and  saw others, you felt you had
made a mistake  a mistake for both of us,
remember  and so you think it best to tell
me so at once, and set things right  for
both of us, remember  as far as they can beset
right, without delay.'

Yes, yes, Rob ! that is it,' says Beta,
eagerly. ' Oh, I am glad you guessed my
thoughts, and feel the same upon this subject
as I do.'

And  let me go on, Beta  you wish to
cancel our engagement  to break it off, in fact,
and let us both be as if it had never
been.'

Yes, yes !' she continues as eagerly ; 'and
I am sure it will be best for both of us, Bob,
for me to go on with my profession, and for
you to go back to Baron's Court and give up
that horrid grubbing in the City. You have
done it for my sake, I know, and I thank
you for it ; but I cannot accept such a sacrifice
on your part, and I shall not be happy until
I know it is at an end.'

Very well, dear ; so let it be,' he answers
quietly ; ' and from this day we will be the
very best of friends, and nothing more.'

And you will return to Baron s Court,
and make your father and Lady Free happy

again, and write me long letters to say how
much you are enjoying yourself there says
Beta, with a bright smile, which has yet
something fearful in it, as though she were
not quite certain if she had done right. But
her companion's reply is given so calmly as to
set most of her fears at rest.

I shall always be happy to know that you
are happy, Betha/ he says ;  and there could
not be any happiness for me in the world
without it. But now that we have settled
this little matter, suppose we talk of something
else ; or shall we take a hansom and
drive out to the country ? I may not have
many more opportunities of taking you for a
drive, Beta.'

No, not when you are at Baron's Court,'
she rejoins cheerfully ; * unless, some day,
when 1 am a very, very big swell, Lady
Free and Sir Willoughby relent sufficiently
to ask me down there again.'

With your husband,' suggests young Free.
VOL. II. 34

Beta blushes scarlet.

Oh, that's nonsense ! I shall never
marry  1 don't want to ; but you will have
a wife, Rob, by that time, and lots of little
children ; and I shall be so fond of them all,
and so pleased to be their friend  that is, if
you will let me.'

The boy (he is no more) does not allow
nor deny the probability which she suggests,
but turns the subject by hailing a cab and
placing her in it. Then they drive out to
Tendon, talking gaily all the while, for the
rattle of wheels does not favour sentimental
conversation ; and when they reach home
again, Robert Free hands Beta out, with a
bow and a smile, and re-entering the vehicle,
directs the driver to his own apartments.

The girl runs up to her bedroom, singing
in the lightness of her heart. She feels as if
a great load had fallen from her shoulders :
as if all the briars had been suddenly removed
from her path of life, and the way was clear

and smooth before her. What joy ! what
happiness ! what inexpressible bliss may not
be in the future ! How shall she ever tell
him  /m?i, the one him in the world for
Beta  that she ifree? Free to love him
and worship him to her life's end !

She cannot imagine  she cannot think ;
her brain is one whirl and her heart one buzz
of delight. She can only realise the blessed
truth that of his own free will and proposal
Robert Free has released her from her
engagement. . . . And meanwhile the boy
goes back to his lonely lodgings, pays and
dismisses the cabman, walks up to his sitting-room
as though he were in a dream, and
having locked the door behind him, sinks
down into a chair by the table, and hiding
his face upon his outstretched arms, bursts
into a flood of bitter tears.

342

'what has become of uimV

When six o'clock strikes that evening, and
Mrs. Henderson's cheery voice is heard
warning her that it is time to get ready,
Beta Durant feels as if it would be impossible
to go to the theatre and encounter the
fire of Geoffrey Clifford's glances. They said
so much to each other the night before  the
secret of both hearts was so thoroughly revealed,
she thinks he must read her hope of
happiness the first moment her eyes are
raised to his, and at that idea she becomes
as shy as though she heard her lover calling
her to his arms.

It will seem as if she, were courting him,
she says to herself, if she tells him of lier
freedom with her own lips. In her love and
anxiety and modesty the girl thinks of a
dozen little ruses by which Mr. Clifford shall
learn the truth, but none are satisfactory to
her. She cannot talk of so private a matter
before the other ladies of the theatre  she
knows the coarseness with which they would
regard the communication, and the comments
they would make upon it.

She shrinks even from letting good Mrs.
Henderson know that her engagement is
cancelled and done with. No ; Beta decides
that the hearing of the momentous
news must be left to chance. Perhaps
Geoffrey  how sweet it is to call him
Geoffrey,' though only to herself !  perhaps
he will guess it from the light that is dancing
in her eyes and the smiles that will curve
her lips, do what she may to restrain them :
anyway, she is going to him : she will look

on his face again and hear his voice, and
there is bliss in that thought, even though
it makes her tremble.

She hurries into the theatre, hoping, yet
fearing, she may encounter him before she
reaches her dressing-room. His elegant
figure is generally to be seen lounging behind
the scenes till the last moment, and he has
got into more than one scrape with Mr.
Henderson for keeping the stage waiting, on
account of his incorrigible laziness in dressing.
But on this particular night he is not to be
seen, and Beta thinks, with a smile, that,
for once, he intends to be punctual.

The play is the * School for Scandal,' in
which she takes the character of 'Lady
Teazle,' Clifford that of ' Charles Surface,'
and Mr. Henderson  Sir Oliver.' In this
piece it will be remembered that ' Charles
Surface ' does not appear until the second
act, and Beta, once on the stage, forgets
everything but the business she is engaged

upon, and goes through her scenes with  Sh-peter'
without a thought of the absent
lover.

As she comes off at the end of the first
act, however, she finds Mr. Henderson in his
dress of * Sir Over,' fuming and stamping
behind the scenes.

Not come ! not arrived !' he exclaims,

angrily. ' D n it all ! send round to his

rooms at once to say the stage is waiting !
Send a cab, Tomkins  d'ye hear ! and tell
'em to drive like the devil. And you,
Martin, go round to Signor Machiavelli and
say he must keep up the band for another
ten minutes. Not here ! Confound the
fellow ! I'll teach him to play me another
trick like this !'

'What is it, papa?' says Beta, with
sudden alarm, as she pulls him by the
sleeve.

What is it? You may well ask, 'what
is it V Here we're just going to ring up the

curtain for the second act, and that confounded
fool Afford has not arrived.'

Not arrived ! Impossible !' cries Beta.
Have they sent to his dressing-room ? He
must be here.'

Mr. Henderson turns and regards her with
a look of the supreme contempt.

You just go to your own room he says,
and don't stand there talking nonsense. I
tell you he's not in the theatre. But by the
Lord Harry, I'll make him smart for it !

He's getting a d d sight too blown up

and conceited, but he needn't think to play
any of his airs off upon me. I'll give him
his dismissal tomorrow, as sure as my name's
Henderson !'

But what can we do ? Suppose he
doesn't come !' demands Miss Price, who is
enacting the part of ' Maria.'

/ will undertake the character,' says Mr.
Fellowes, coming forward,  I've played
' Charles Surface " many times before, Mr.

Henderson, and I'll change my dress in ten
minutes if some one will take " Master
Rowley " off my hands

You're my man !' cries the stage-manager,
clapping the speaker on the back.
Cut up into Clifford's dressing-room, my
boy, and get into his duds as quick as you
can ; and Lawson here shall take the Jew.

And 111 be d d if Clifford shall have the

part again, if he comes on the wings of the
wind ! Now clear the stage, all of you, and
hurry as much as you can, whilst I get the
other side of the  rag," and make an apology
for that cursed fellow's absence.'

Everybody scuttles off at the manager's
bidding, laughing, blaming, and wondering,
and Beta goes with them, though she of allis
silent.

Apart from the consternation she feels at
the probable consequences of Geoffrey Clifford's
defalcation, a horrible fear oppresses
her lest his absence should be caused by sickness

or some other misfortune. Else, why
should he not have sent word, even at the
last moment, that he was unable to appear ?
It is so unusual  so extraordinary. Nothing,
Beta thinks, but sudden death could excuse
such a breach of everything that is businesslike
and gentlemanly.

And while she ponders thus, with a cold,
sick fear curdling her blood as she remembers
that he warned her last evening that if she
would not promise then and there to break
her plighted word with Robert Free, the
morrow might prove too late to change her
mind, the idle talk and conjectures of the
ladies who share her dressing-room drive her
almost crazy.

What on earth can have become of him V
cries Fanny Price. ' I never heard of such
a thing in my life. Absenting himself without
even an apology. Well, if it leads to his
dismissal, I shan't break my heart, for one I
I always thought him an overrated coxcomb,

and if it hadn't been for his good looks he'd
never have stood where he does !'

Henderson said " Let there be a star,"
and there was a star ; and the morning and
the evening were the hundred and twenty-fifth
day !' exclaims another young lady, rather
irreverently.

Ah, but he'll go down now, my dear, with
a vengeance. He'll become a falling star,
see if he doesn't,' replies Miss Price. ' And
no great loss either. Mr. Fellowes can play
all his parts quite as well as he can. And
old H. will never look over this. He's a
perfect Tartar for punctuality.'

Why couldn't the fellow have sent to say
he was ill  or whatever other lie he chose to
concoct for himself V

My dear, he's no more ill than you are !
More likely drunk ! I met him in the Strand
this morning, and he looked half-seas-over,
then. Depend upon it, he's comfortably
tucked up in bed.'

'Well, he'll have plenty of time to enjoy
it now, as far as the Marlborough's concerned,
/ bet,' retorts Miss Price, with a side
glance to see how Miss Selwyn is taking the
downfall of her favourite.

But Beta has not a word  not one single
word  to offer in his defence ; and if she had,
she could not trust her voice to utter it. She
changes her rich dress mechanically, and
listens in silence to all the cruel things that
are said concerning him, whilst her whole
frame shivers as if with cold ; and a dreadful
exaggerated fear is clinging to her heart
lest the messenger should return to say that
he is dead  shot through the brain, perhaps,
with his own pistol, or found stark and stiff
upon his bed with an open vial in his hand,
driven out of the world by despair and the
cruelty which let him go last night without
one word of hope or comfort !

Lor, miss, you're never going on like
that !' exclaims the dresser. * Why, you've

I

gone as white as a sheet ! and you're shaking
with the cold ! There, let me give you a
touch of rouge I There, that's better ! You
was enough to frighten one before !'

And the girl, when her call comes, creeps
down the stairs as mechanically as she
ascended them, and goes through her part
like an automaton.

Country cousins who visited the Marlborough
that night expressly to see the young
actress of whom the papers speak so highly,
are terribly disappointed in Miss Selwyn's
Lady Teazle.'

She's awfully pretty, of course,' they say
to their mammas and papas over the 
the following morning; * and in the
first part she played well enough. But she
went off terribly in the last scenes. She
seemed as if she was too tired to do anything,
and she looked quite plain  didn't she,
Bessie V

And mamma wonders and sympathises.

and says she dares to say the poor thing
was tired, and it is shocking to think of
young people being kept up night after
night in that fashion ; and she really believes
she must put a stop to it, for Bessie and
Mary are looking quite pale themselves.
Which is followed by a chorus of indignant
denials on the part of her daughters, in the
course of which poor Beta's shortcomings
are suffered to be forgotten.

It is wonderful to her in after-days to
think how she did drag through her part that
evening, with such an awful though undefinable
fear knocking at her heart the while.
It is over at last, however, and the green
curtain is down. Never in all her experience
of theatrical life has Beta been so thankful
to complete an evening's task. She turns
with white lips to Mr. Henderson as they
meet at the winofs.

'Mr. Clifford not put in an appearance

yet V she asks him, in a tone which is intended
to sound light and indifferent.

Not he,' grunts the manager; * and what's
more, he never intended to do so. He left
his rooms this afternoon, and has not been
there since. But I'll make him pay for this,
as sure as I live ! It's the most scurvy
trick that has ever been played upon
me!'

But,' she answers, trembling,  perhaps
something has happened to him. He maybe
ill  or  or  in want of assistance ! Can
they do nothing ? Can no one go  or  or 
send  to see after him V

The tone of the poor child's voice attracts
the manager's attention. He turns and looks
at her steadily for a moment, then takes her
hand and leads her to his private room,
where, producing a bottle and glass, he pours
out wine and holds it to her lips.

Drink that, child !' he says, in his rough
way ; * and stop that confounded shaking.

No harm has happened to the fellow, you
may take your oath of that ! It's the theatre
that will suffer, not he. And now go and
get your things off, and I'll take you home.
Here, drink another glass of sherry before
you go. It's no use trying to shirk it. I
don't want those chattering fools upstairs to
see you in this state, and neither, I suppose,
do you. Make as much haste as you can !
I shan't be comfortable till I've taken you
home to the old woman.'

And having done so, the kind-hearted
manager leaves her there, believing, and
truly, that if her strength does not prove
sufficient for the concealment of her feelings,
she will suffer less in betraying them before
a woman than himself.

But Beta bears up bravely until the following
day. The suspense and anxiety are
horrible to bear : they keep her awake all
night, staring, with wide-open eyes, into the
darkness, whilst she conjectures all sorts of

explanations for the mystery that enshrouds
Geoffrey Clifford's disappearance.

But whilst it is a mystery, fancy can divert
her mind with a dozen reasons for his absence,
no one of which casts a shade of dishonour
upon the love she knows she bears
him. Under any other circumstances, Beta
would feel dreadfully ashamed to think that
Mr. Henderson had guessed the interest she
takes in Clifford ; but just now it seems of
secondary importance compared to the heavy
trouble she must labour under until she hears
that he is safe and well, and all the misunderstanding
between them is cleared up again.
It 7nust come right. She repeats this comforting
assurance to herself a hundred times
that night : nothing serious can really have
happened to her beloved Geoffrey ! They
will see him on the morrow, and he will explain
away all that now appears so inexplicable,
and he will guess the great secret of
her freedom from the very joy she will be

VOL. II. 35

unable to conceal at their reunion ; and then
the blessed sunshine must break out again,
and all will be ineffable happiness.

Yet, though Beta keeps on comforting
herself with this belief, and determining to
close her eyes and sleep in peace upon it, the
sleep will not come, and morning finds her as
wide awake and as anxious as before. She
rises and descends to breakfast, only to find
that Mr. Henderson has already left the
house, and she is to be subjected to his wife's
conjectures and condemnation of Mr. Clifford's
behaviour, until she feels as though
she must order her to hold her tongue.

'But there, as I tell papa,' Mrs. Henderson
chatters on, ' if he will go and pin all
his faith and risk his fortunes on an actor,
what can he expect ? A nasty, low, shifty
lot  that's what I call them I Ah, my
dear ! I don't mean you, of course, because
(as I've always told you) you are a great
deal too good for the stage ; and how you

came to choose such an up-and-down business
I can't imagine. But this Clifford, now
(or whatever he calls himself), is quite
another sort I I always told papa not to
build upon him ! He has a shifty eye 
haven't you remarked it, Beta ?  and never
looks you straight in the face.'

He has been tolerably punctual to business
hitherto,' says poor Beta, feeling she must
put in a good Avoid for her hero ; ' and never
stayed away from the theatre at night
before.'

Ah, my dear, but he's one of your swells
(if papa says true)  a gentleman with money
of his own  and they're never to be depended
on from one day to another. However,
papa's gone round to his rooms now to make
inquiries after him, and perhaps we shall
hear something when he returns. But lor,
Beta, you don't look at all well yourself this
morning  or is it this nasty fog makes you
so yellow V

352

I don't feel ill says Beta, with a ghastly
smile, as she rises from her chair ; ' but I
think I am rather tired with my week's
work, and will lie down for an hour or two
till papa comes home again

*And won't you go to church?' demands
Mrs. Henderson, who is always scandalised
at the idea of anyone neglecting that duty.

 I ccmt go to church this morning,' replies
the girl, wearily ;  I should go to sleep before
the service was half over !'

If she had said she should go into hysterics
before the service was half over, it would
have been a truer excuse, for she has difficulty
in keeping down her tendency to violent
emotion even when she is left to the calming
influence of solitude.

avenged TENFOLD.'

But though Beta shuts herself up in her
room and locks the door, she does not lie
down on her bed, as Mrs. Henderson fondly
imagines.

In her present state of mind, solitude is
indispensable to her, but insertion would be
maddening. So she wanders backward and
forward in the small apartment, mechanically
overhauling her stock of clothing  arranging
a drawer of ribbons and laces here, or smoothing
the folds of a crushed dress there, whilst
her thoughts are far, far away, and she
hardly realises whether she is in this world
or out of it.

Women have the faculty of occupying
their hands quite apart from their brains,
and of going through a great deal of manual
labour without giving a single thought to
what they are doing.

In the course of her enforced employment,
Beta turns out her little writing-desk, and
gazes through her unshed tears at various
letters which she has hoarded there. There
are several from Mattie Levison which she
thinks she had better destroy, and yet has
not the heart to do so. True, her intimacy
in that quarter seems at an end, and coming
events are not likely to renew it  yet Beta
has always loved Mattie, notwithstanding
the cruel things she said last time they met.
She cannot forget the girl's sweetness of
disposition and readiness to oblige when they
were school-fellows at Princess College
together, and if of late circumstances have
somewhat roused her temper, and made her
unkind, Beta cannot determine that she

will never forgive her. She thinks of the
languid, lovely girl, with her want of principle
and her unhappy home, and hardly wonders,
though she cannot but blame, the infatuation
which made her resent the possibility of
losing such a friend as Geoffrey Clifford.

Poor dear Mattie ! she has been very
imprudent and very unjust, but her generous
schoolmate has a soft spot still in her heart
for all her short-comings, and puts away the
little packet of letters in a secret drawer to
remind her of the friendship that once was.
But she feels no such compunction at parting
with one or two notes that she has preserved
of Robert Free's. They are manly, honest
little effusions : not very gushing, though
affectionate and straightforward, but their
presence in Beta's desk is an insult to the
other man, and it is her womanly nature that
prompts her to tear them into shreds and
throw them away. Yet she does it with a
sigh.

Poor Rob she thinks ; ' what a pity it is
that I ever met him ! But he will go back
to Baron's Court now, and live with his
father as he ought to do, and perhaps he
will be none the worse for this little experience.
Poor old Bob ! He is very good
and kind, and thoroughly true ; but it is
much better as it is. We never should have
got on together, and I dare say by this
time he is as glad to be out of it as I
am

There is a long epistle there from Kate
Montalambert, full of dashes, and the most
ardent expressions of affection, and all the
latest news of the Buton Theatre.

Beta puts it on one side with a faint
smile. She must answer it shortly, or Kate
will wonder what has become of her. It will
never do to requite her friend's gushing
attachment by showing a want of interest in
her dress for the coming pantomime, or
forgetting to inquire after the gentleman who

caught an ague from hanging about the
staoe-door at nioht to kiss the hem of her
ulster as she passed the threshold.

Then there is a business letter from a New
York manager, offerings her hioh terms to
cross the Atlantic, and take the * lead ' at his
theatre for six months. When Beta
received that letter, her first feeling was one
of utter abhorrence at the mere idea of
leaving England, and all the interest it holds
for her. To cross the sea alone : to make
her home amongst strangers : to act with
men and women she had never seen before :
she felt as if she would rather return to
Buton, and take up her residence again with
Kate Montalambert.

But now she sits looking at that letter
for the best part of an hour, whilst she
wonders idly what sort of a city New York
must be ; and if the Yankees would welcome
her kindly, and make much of her, as they doat
home ; or if they would ridicule her efforts

to please them, and declare her abilities to
have been over-rated.

She is still employing herself in this aimless
manner, as she turns the New York
manager's communication over and over in
her hands, when she is roused from her
reverie by hearing the latch-key grate in the
front door.

Mr. Henderson has returned, then ; now
she shall hear something. Beta starts
from her sitting position with crimson cheeks,
and listens eagerly for any sound that may
reach her from below. There is a great
commotion of voices : at first she believes
there must be more than the master and
mistress of the house talking together ; and
a sudden hope that Geoffrey Clifford may
have come back with the manager flickers
up for a moment to make her heart beat
almost to suffocation. But in the next it has
died away again. She cannot distinguish his
voice, and she should know it amongst a

thousand. The minutes are hours until she
hears a footstep on the stairs, and when
it comes, she flings open her door without
ceremony, and meets Mrs. Henderson upon
the threshold.

What news ?' she cries, impatiently. The
dread of betraying herself has vanished
beneath her awful anxiety to learn the truth.

Oh, my dear  my dear ! the very worst
of news; says Mrs. Henderson, in a wailing
voice. ' It's all over, Beta, and the most
shameful thing that I ever heard of.'

But before she has time to say more, the
girl has pulled her inside the bedroom door,
and shut it upon them both. She believes
she is about to receive her death-blow, and
the less spectators there are to her anguish,
the better she will be able to bear it.

Tell me all, at once,' she utters, with
parched lips that can scarcely articulate the
words.

Lor, my dear child ! you needn't pull a

body about in that way,' says Mrs. Henderson,
settling her ruffled plumes. * I should have
told you soon enough, never fear. I only
came upstairs for the purpose, and quite glad
to get out of papa's way too, for he's in
such a rage about it as you never saw.'

About what ? How can I understand if
you won't tell me ? Is  is  he dead f

Dead! what, that fellow Clifford! I should
think not, my dear ! It would be a very good
thing if he were dead ; but those sort of men
never die, more's the pity !'

Beta sits down upon the bed with a
deep sigh of relief He is not dead, thank
heaven ! Everything  she thinks  will be
easy to bear after that.

 What is it all about, then ?' she asks, in a
low voice. 'Why was he absent from the
theatre T

Ah ! that's the villainy of it, my dear.
I've got something to tell you that will
make you open your eyes ; but I don't know

what's come to men and women nowadays.
They seem all bad alike. Papa went round
to that Clifford's chambers, in the Albany,
and who should he meet there but your
friend Mr. Levison, and then it all came
out.'

Mr. Levison I But what had he to do in
the Albany V gasps Beta.

Why ! he had gone there in search of
Clifford, of course, just the same as papa 
and he vows, that when he catches him he'll
kill him ; and I shouldn't wonder if he did
either, and serve him right, / say.'

But Mrs. Henderson, I really don't understand
what Mr. Levison can have to do
with the matter,' says the girl, in a piteous
voice.

My dear, you are dull. Why, Clifford's
run away with his wife ; that's what he's got
to do with it.'

The colour fades from Beta's face, leaving
her as grey as ashes.

It's not true 1' she exclaims, with trembling
lips, as she stands by the bedside,
steadying herself with one hand. * I don't
believe it.'

What nonsense, Beta ! I tell you it is
true. Mrs. Levison left a letter for her
husband, telling him all about it, and he
showed it to papa this evening. They went
off to Paris, together, by the boat yesterday
afternoon, which of course accounts for
Clifford being absent last evening. And
this comes of engaging a gentleman with
independent means ! I always told papa it
would come to no good. They just serve you
as long as it suits their convenience, and
if anything else comes in their way off they
go. And to run away with another man's
wife, too ! As if there weren't women and to
spare in this world, without playing such a
dirty trick as that ! But I never liked that
Clifford, Beta. I've no opinion of actors asa
lot, and he's too well-looking to be any

good. Handsome men are generally wicked.
The women take care they shall be. And as
for Mrs. Levison, she ought to be shot in
fact, they ought both to be shot ; and they
would be too, if I had my way.'

Mrs. Henderson,' says a faint voice from
the bedside, 'would you be so kind as to
open the window for me ?'

Open the window ! lor, my dear ! and on
such a foggy morning. But you do look a
little faint. This business has upset you, I
dare say, as it has us all ; but don't you be
troubling yourself as to who will take his
place. Papa will look after that, you maybe
sure, and there's as good fish in the sea as
ever came out of it. And if that Clifford ever
thinks to come back to the Marlborough, why
he'll find himself very much mistaken. Papa's
so angry about the whole business, that I believe
he'd shut up the theatre sooner than
engage him again. But come now, Beta,
won't you lie down a bit before dinner and

try to recover yourself? We've got the
most beautiful leg of roast pork, and an
apple tart, and I shall be so vexed if I don't
see you able to enjoy it with us ! I'll explain
to papa that this business has worried
you a bit, and he won't expect to see you till
dinner is on the table

No 1 no !' exclaims the girl, struggling to
recover herself, whilst the light of a true
heroism beams in her eyes ; ' I do not wish
to lie down, Mrs. Henderson. I am quite able
o go downstairs with you and hear all that
papa has to say upon this unfortunate affair.'

And she plunges into the little sitting-room
with the same desperate resolution that
would have carried her to the stake.

What ' papa ' has to say is soon said.

D n the rascal !' he exclaims energetically,
* I would like to brand his pretty
face across with a hot iron ! And that smuggling
wriggling fine lady friend of yours too,
Beta ! She must be a nice sort of person !

I never liked her, for all her beauty. She
looks too conscious of it, and she dresses too
smartly. I have nothing to say against her
philanderings of course  if her husband approved
of them, no one else had a right to
interfere  but she ought to be ashamed of
herself for carrying off an actor like Clifford
in the middle of his enD-movement. I'd like to
see both well whipped.'

I don't think Mattie can be the one to
blame,' says Beta, and it is the only remark
she makes on the occasion ; ' because
she was always gentle and so timid, and so
easily led !'

Pshaw, my dear ! the women are always
to blame in these cases. We men have got
nothing to do but to follow their lead. But
you must get out of the way of calling that
person " Mattie," or of thinking that you'll
ever see her again. You're under my charge,
remember, and I won't have you corrupted by
any such evil example.'

VOL. II. ' 36

 Oh no ! oh no !' says Beta, shrinking
from the very idea, as if she had been asked
to take a serpent to her bosom.

And at this juncture the roast pork makes
its appearance, and in the bustle and interest
of vulgar every-day necessities, her bleeding
heart is suffered to float down the stream of
life unnoticed.

But that evening when Mrs. Henderson's
night-capped head reposes peacefully on its
pillow, the door of the parlour where the
manager is still sitting, busied with letters
and accounts, is quietly pushed open, and
a pale face and slight figure come into
view.

Why, my dear !' he exclaims, ' how is
this  not yet in bed ? I thought you went
upstairs an hour ago.'

Yes, papa ; but T wanted to consult you
about this,' and Beta holds out the

American manager s letter in her trembling


Mr. Henderson has seen it before, and he
guesses at once the reason why it is again
presented for his consideration.

Ah !' he says, ' Party n's offer of a New-york
engagement ! But I thought you had
decided not to close with him for this year,
at all events, Beta.'

I know I did ; but  but  I have been
thinking it over again, papa, and if you will
let me go  I would like  I would rather  I
think it will be best for me '

But here the girl's voice falters, and she
is unable to proceed. The manager looks at
her downcast face and drooping form with
the utmost compassion.

Poor child  poor child !' he says ; ' are
you so hard hit as that V

The kindly words, which show he has
guessed her secret, break down the barriers
of Beta's womanly reserve.

362

Oh, papa !* she gasps. ' Don't ask meany
questions, but let me go ! I feel as if
the air of England would stifle me.'

I will see about it he says, shortly ;
then, after a pause : * If I didn't love you
like my own child, my dear, I should decidedly
say " No," for I think you ought to
be for another year, at least, in London before
you cross the duck-pond ; but, under the
circumstances  Well, Beta ! you'll trust me
to do the best I can for you, won't you ? but
it'll go hard with us to lose you, and I wish

that d d rascal had been shot before I

ever let him cross the threshold of the Marlborough.'


She makes no answer to this tirade, but
creeps back to her bedroom silently, and
locks the door behind her, and gives vent to
the grief that bids fair to kill all that is
fairest in her young life.

There let us leave her, in company only
with her bitter disappointment and her tears.

fi

It would be idle as useless to intrude upon
her sorrow ; but if Robert Free requires
a Nemesis for the thorn she planted in his
heart but yesterday, he has but to follow her
into her solitude, to realise that his sufferings
are avenged tenfold.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPtRS, GUILDFORD.

OF THE

UN IVLR.SITY

Of ILLINOIS

8>23
V A75>my

UNIVEfiSI

Jl lobd.

BY

FLORENCE MARRYAT

(MRS. FRANCIS LEAN),
AUTHOR OF ' love's CONFLICT,' ETC., ETC. '

Honour and shame from no condition rise :
Act well your part : there all the honour lies."

Pope.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON :
F. V. WHITE AND CO.,

SUCCESSORS TO

SAMUEL TINSLEY & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

isti.

[// Rights Reserved.]

<;H AFTER PAGE

I. 'AFTER SIX years' - - - - 1

II. 'MATTIE IN RAGS' - - - - 19

III. 'SHE IS THE RAGE NOW' - - - 36

IV. 'CINTHY IS COMING TO-MORROW !' - - 49
V. 'SHE IS OT.DER THAN I A]M' - - - 67

VI. 'SHE CANNOT QUITE FORGET' - - 89

VII. 'BE TRUE TO YOURSELF' - - - 105
VIII. 'HE KNOWS YOUR Addresses - 121

IX. 'I WILL NEVER CEASE TO BE YOLTl FRIEND' 144

X. ' I AM IN SUCH A SCRAPE' - - - 165

XL 'WHAT REWARD SHALL I RECEIVE?' - - 188

Nil 'WON'T YOU "try" TO LOVE ME]' - - 210

Xii ' COME !' - 234

ooXKo

CHAPTER I.

'AFTER SIX YEARS.'

In a very few weeks from this period, the
Marlborough Theatre closes its doors on the
legitimate drama, to reopen them to burlesque
; and the actors and actresses who
have contrived to render the past season so
successful are seen on its boards no more.
About the same time, also, sundry paragraphs
in the society and theatrical papers
inform the public that ' the talented and
rising young actress, Miss Beta Selwyn,
VOL. III. 37

who lately delighted the audiences of the
Marlborough, has accepted a most lucrative
engagement with Mr. Dionysius Party n, of
the Thespian Theatre, New York, and
started from Liverpool for that city, last
Saturday, in the steamship Eldorado.

And so the girl disappears from England,
and is almost forgotten. Some of the more
enthusiastic amongst her admirers skim the
paragraphs, and exclaim :

What a shame ! They've actually trapped
the little Selwyn over to America ! Why,
she was the prettiest actress in London.
There is no one to replace her. However,
she is sure to be back next season.'

But the months roll on, and Beta does
not return ; and somebody springs up to take
her place, and the world discovers that somebody
is nearly as clever and nearly as pretty
as she was, and if her name is ever mentioned
it is as a thing of the past.

Theatrical managers and old playgoers miss

the bright speaking face and brighter intellect,
and read all the news that reaches
England respecting her talents, and follow
her American career with interest. But to
the general public the name of Beta Selwyn
becomes as a dream. The general
public is very dull. One-half of it has never
seen her, and is not quite sure if she is an
author, a singer, or a ballet-girl; and the
other half tears through its modicum of daily
news at railroad speed, and has no time to
spare for the items that relate to foreign
theatricals.

Paragraphs detailing the enthusiastic reception
of Miss Beta Selwyn as * Cleopatra,'
in New York ; or the particulars
of her carriage having been dragged home
from the theatre after her performance of
Juliet,' by the young men of Saratoga ; or
of the diamond bracelet that was thrown to
her, concealed in a bouquet of flowers, at
Philadelphia, possess but little interest for

372

the community, and excite but little comment.


The critics and managers read of her
success, and say they prophesied as much
lone ago, and they shall be glad to see her
back in England. But Beta Selwyn, having
once escaped to the shores of the New World,
is like a bird let out of its cage, and sits
pluming her wings on the opposite side of
the Atlantic, refusing all temptations to cross
the * duck-pond ' again. The months grow
into years, and one year succeeds another,
until six have been numbered with the centuries
; and the girl who left England at
eighteen is a woman of four-and-twenty.
She has played in all the principal cities of
America by that time, and her reception
everywhere has been crowned with success.
She has been pronounced to be the
greatest Shakespearian actress that has ever
visited the New World; and her * Eosahnd,'
and * Juliet,' and ' Desdemona ' are cited as

the most perfect impersonations that have
ever been attempted. In fact, making every
allowance for the temptation to hyperbole
which the appearance of a lovely woman
excites in every manly breast, Beta Selwyn
is a genius, and the general verdict of the
public proclaims her so.

As the years pass on, and her popularity
becomes more established and her charms
more developed, beautiful photographs of
her, taken in every conceivable character and
position, issue from the world-famed studio
of Mora, and find their way into the windows
of the Regent Street photographers.
At one time the whole front of a certain
establishment is monopolised by her portraits,
whilst a large placard with the name of Beta
Selwyn draws a continuous crowd to gaze
upon her attractive face and figure.

Major Durant, who has returned to England
with his wife and daughter, stops with
the crowd one day, and surveys the specimens

of photography through his double-barrelled
eyeglass. He knows quite well who * Beta
Selwyn ' is, although he would not have recognised
his own child without the assistance
of the big placard. He brings Mrs. Durant
down that way the very next afternoon, with
an injunction to view these terrible proofs of
their mutual disgrace, as though they were
the portraits of a stranger ; but Mrs. Durant
is so completely taken aback by the beauty
and elegance of the photographs, that she
calls out,  Is that Elizabeth V from sheer
surprise, and is hurried up a by-street by
the infuriated major before she has time to
examine them. But she comes back in the
course of another day or two, accompanied
by a tall, slim young lady with dark eyes and
hair, and together they look at each portrait
separately, with a running commentary of
disbelief that Beta could ever have turned
out half so beautiful.

There's no denying it, my dear,' says

Mrs. Durant ; * she's positively lovely, and
Colonel Archer was telling me, only yesterday,
that she is creating a perfect furore in
America. Really, I was half tempted to
confess we are related ; but I thought your
papa would never forgive me if I did so.
Let me see, Cinthia ! How long is it since
we have met your poor sister ! Is it six
years, or seven V

It's nearer eight, mamma ! It will be
eight years next Christmas since our mother
died

Dear, dear, so it will be ! How time
flies ! Elizabeth must be nearly four-and-twenty.
I think that portrait in the white
satin is the most elegant ! I should very
much like to buy it if I thought your papa
would not scold me. And they are actually
selling for two shillings a-piece ! A shocking
price ! Why, here is Mr. Claverton ! How
d'ye do ? How d'ye do ? we were admiring
the portraits of this famous American actress.

Miss Selwyn. Have you seen them, Mr.
Claverton ? She is really a most distil*
gushed-looking young woman.'

The Honourable Gervase Claverton glances
consciously at the photographs and the name
as if he had seen both before; but perhaps he
thinks it will please Mrs. Durant or her
daughter if he professes complete indifference
to the pictured beauty.

Ah, yes !' he replies, somewhat languidly,
she is rather good-looking, as you say ; but if
what is reported of her genius the other side
of the Atlantic be true. I expect her photograph
is all that we shall see of her in
England. They tell me she is making a
regular fortune out there !'

Fancy, a regular fortune !' exclaims Mrs.
Durant, glancing at Hyacinth, with a
heightened colour. The young lady is far
the more collected of the two.

Is Miss Selwyn an Englishwoman V she
asks Mr. Claverton indifferently, as she

buttons her glove ; ' has she ever acted in
England V

I believe she did  years and years ago
he answers ; and then adds,  Shall we move
on, Mrs. Durant 1 This is hardly a nice crowd
for you ladies to be standing in ; and it seems
to ore worse instead of better !'

Yes, indeed ! it is shocking, and I don't
know what the major would say if he found
us here ; but really, Mr. Claverton, if one is
ever to see anything in London, we must
occasionally put up with a little inconvenience.
However, Hyacinth and I have satisfied our
curiosity respecting the American beauty,
and that is all that we wanted to do.' And
so they walk home together to the Durants'
house on Primrose Hill.

Later in the day two other ladies pass by
the same shop, who are not quite so fearful
of being detected in the crime of gazing at
Beta's photographs.

Mamma, mamma ! Look there !' cries

the younger of the two, as she twitches at
her mother s arm.

Bless my soul, Blanche ! how rough you
are growing. You have torn the fringe off
my sleeve. What is it ? the new cardinal ?
I saw him last week.'

No, mamma  Beta ! Only just look !
One, two, three, four  eleven different attitudes
! Well, I never ! For what on earth are
they making such a fuss about her, I wonder !'

Your cousin Elizabeth, my dear ! So it
is. This is wonderful ! " Beta Sehvyn.''
So that is the name she goes by. I remember
now, Professor Leininghem from the
college told me a few months ago that she
was known in America by the name of
Selwyn. Poor girl, poor girl ! What a
terrible ending ! But who would ever have
thought she had got so much iu her ! Come
into the shop, Blanche. No one knows she is
related to us, and there will be no harm in
asking to look over her photographs !'

 You'll have to buy one, mamma.'

Well, never mind, dear ! I shall not
grudge even that ! I always took an interest
in poor Elizabeth. You must remember how
kind I was to her after her poor dear mother's
death, and how ungratefully she treated me.
Well, well, she has had her reward ! But
we may just as well have a peep at the
photographs.'

The ladies are comfortably seated at the
counter examining the album which contains
Botha's likenesses, when Blanche again tugs
at her mother's arm.

Mamma ! isn't that Mr. Free on the
other side of the shop V

Where, my dear, where V exclaims Mrs.
Chapman, as she surveys the indicated spot
through her pince-nez. * No ! surely  that
is a much older and better-looking man than
Mr. Free.'

It is he ! I am sure of it ! You forget
that it is four years since we met him.' And

then Blanche, who is not troubled with any
foolish timidity with regard to the other sex,
gives a sharp cough, which causes the gentleman
in question to raise his eyes. ' How
d'ye do, Mr. Free ? I told mamma it was
you, but she wouldn't believe me. What an
age it is since wee met ! You never come to
see us now. We are not living in Earl's
Court any longer, though. We have moved
to Shepherd's Bush. And what may you be
doing here  eh ? Are you engaged in
selecting pretty faces for your photograph-book
? Oh, you naughty man !'

As soon as the young lady's volubility will
permit him to answer her questions, Robert
Free does so without any hesitation.

I was examining these new portraits of
your cousin. Miss Chapman. They are
beautiful specimens of photography, and I
thought I should like to possess one or two,
for the sake of '' Auld Lang Syne." '

Mrs. Chapman immediately remembers

that she is engaged upon a deed of darkness.
She closes the album before her, and lowers
her voice.

Well, Mr. Free, to tell you the truth , we
entered for the same purpose, though I should
not like anyone else to guess it. Poor, poor
Elizabeth ! But I was always fond of her,
you remember. I was her second mother,
and regarded her as my own child, and
though she sadly disappointed us, and forgot
every obligation under which my kindness
had laid her  still you know  one cannot.
quite forget these things ; and Blanche and I
were foolish enough to think we should like
to possess one of her photographs in order to
note the changes that have taken place in the
poor unhappy girl since we parted. But I
shall depend upon you not to mention the
fact of your having met us here  again !'

Mr. Free promises obedience, but looks
very grave over it the while.

She is certainly very much changed,' he

says solemnly, as lie regards the portraits,
but I suppose people would say it is for the
better. She is very beautiful  but the bright,
childish, innocent look, which was one of her
greatest charms, has gone for ever.'

Ah ! T expect that did not remain long
after she adopted her most pernicious profession.
Who could be innocent, Mr. Free,
amidst the immoral atmosphere of a life upon
the stage ! But I believe you have seen her
since we have.'

Yes ! I saw her up to within a few days
of her leaving England.'

And she has been absent for six years !'

She has been absent for six years,' he
echoes with a sigh.

Well ! I do not suppose she will ever
return to England now ; and for her family's
sake, it is to be hoped she may not. Poor
deluded child ! The best thing she can dois
to marry and settle in America. Perhaps
the stain is not thought so much of there, as

here ! And what are you doing, Mr. Free,
all this while ? How is your excellent
grand mamma ? And your father, Sir Willoughby
'C

My father s health has not been so good
of late, I regret to say, Mrs. Chapman, but
Lady Free seems as strong and as active as
ever

And are you living in London V

Entirely ! I am a junior partner in the
firm of MacKinnon and Company, of Leaden-hall
Street;

Bless my soul ! this is news ! Fancy
you in a city firm !'

I have worked there for the last seven
years, Mrs. Chapman.'

But what need can you have to work,
with Baron's Court and your immense expectations
? Mr. Free, you have quite taken
my breath away.'

I suppose there is no actual need. But
years ago, Mrs. Chapman, my father and I

fell out on a certain subject, and he held my
dependence on him over my head as a threat
to make me give up my design. So I determined
that I would set to work like other
men, and make an independence for myself;
and I have done so.'

 And have you accomplished the purpose
for which you contended, Mr. Free V

The young man's face falls.

No : and I may never do it : but I shall
not relinquish my hope nor my work, all the
same.*

I am afraid you are a very obstinate
young man. However, it is time we were
moving on. You will come then, and see us
at Shepherd's Bush, Mr. Free? My
Blanche has never forgotten the pleasant
evenings we used to spend together in Earl's
Court. You will be sure to look us up
again V

Mr. Free promises to obey her commands,
and as soon as the ladies are out of sight he

purchases every likeness of Beta that he can
lay his hands on, and carries them off to his
home in the Strand.

This outburst of photographs proves to be
but the forerunner of a series of announcements
which appear simultaneously in the
London papers, to the effect that Mr. Montgomery
Warren, the celebrated Shakespearian
actor, and proprietor of the Pompeii
theatre, has secured the support of Miss
Beta Selwyn for the coming season, and
that the price of the stalls will be raised from
half a guinea to fifteen shillings in consequence.
The various dailies and weeklies
seize this opportunity to recapitulate all they
have ever heard or published regarding
Beta's career. Each character she has sustained
in England and America, with the
criticisms that appeared on it, is dragged to the
front and commented on anew. Her personal
characteristics are given in detail. Little
anecdotes relating to her benevolence, gene-vol.
III. 38

rosity, and kindness of heart crop up at every
turn ; whilst there are not wanting dark hints,
which make Major Durant's blood curdle,
respecting her parentage and the reasons
which caused her to adopt the stage. Everything,
in fact, that can whet the public
curiosity, and freshen the public memory
regarding Miss Selwyn's professional career,
is brought forward to heighten the effect
of her re appearance ; and for a month
before she steps on English ground, the
journals teem with her name, and her photographs
sell faster than they can be reduplicated.


And thus, with a literary blare of trumpets
and a nation's welcome, as gratifying and far
more flattering to her merits than if she had
been a queen, does Beta Durant return to
her native land, after six long years of
voluntary exile.

*MATTIE IN rags

Whilst the public interest is still on the tiptoe
of expectation concerning her, and the
learned in theatrical events are telling each
other that she has actually arrived, Beta
Durant is standing at the window of an hotel
in Piccadilly watching the stream of carriages
and foot-passengers that pass in array before
her, with almost childish delight.

Oh, how different everything looks from
what it does in America ! How good it is to
be back again in dear old England !' she exclaims
heartily to an old woman who sits
sewing in a corner of the room.

382

The old woman raises her eyes to Beta's
bright face and nods in acquiescence. It is
Bentham, the nurse, to whose care her dead
mother had confided Hyacinth, and who had
been turned out of her master's service before
the grass had grown green on his wife's
grave.

There are no such carriages as English
carriages, and no such horses as English
horses,' continues Beta ; ' and the girls do
look so fresh and sweet and clean  like roses.
I do not wonder at that Eastern traveller
who wrote the " Cedar of Lebanon" saying,
that when he first came to this country he
thought he must have entered Paradise, for
every woman looked like a houri.'

And what do you suppose he would have
said to yourself. Miss Beta V

Oh, I don't know, Bentyy,' replies the girl
with a sudden weariness ;  I am afraid I
don't look much like a houri now. ' I feel
as if the American stoves and the hardwork

bad taken all my roses away. But
I used to have a nice colour, used I not,
nurse ?'

You are just as good-looking as ever you
were, Miss Betlia, and in fact a great deal
better  colour or no colour rejoins the old
woman.

Betba laughs at the compliment, which
calls an unmistakable bloom into her cheeks.
She knows she is handsomer than she ever
was, and she is too honest to deny it. As
she stands at the window, robed in a plain
black velvet dress, with a fall of point lace at
her throat and wrists, and no ornament except
the masses of her fair hair, she forms a
striking picture. Her complexion is certainly
pale, but it is as clear as that of a child, and
the charm of her delicate rose-tinted lips
would be killed by a higher colony Her
large dark-grey eyes are as frank and as
earnest in their expression as when she was
sixteen ; and her svelte figure, without losing

any of its grace, has attained a roundness
that bespeaks the perfected woman.

As she leans against the window-sill,
sheltering herself behind the lace curtain,
there is a natural art apparent in every
position she assumes : an art which it would
have been impossible to cultivate without
the natural grace ; and a nature which could
never have reached the perfection of elegant
ease without the assistance of art.

How sweet, and yet how sad it seems to
come home again,' she continues, after a
pause. * Six years is a very long while to
have been away, Bentyy. It looks like a
lifetime in the retrospect. And yet we do
not seem much changed ! You don't look a
day older, old woman, since that evening 
shall I ever forget it ?  when you rushed
into my room at the Liverpool hotel and
asked me to take you to New York with me.
What a wonderful meeting that was !'

The meetings wasn't half so wonderful,

Miss Beta, as the fact of my hearing you
were in Liverpool (where I was living with
my sister), quite by chance, as you may say.
There I was, sad enough, and never dreaming
I should see either of my bairns again,
when in comes my sister's son with a long
story about you ; and it seemed to strike mein
a moment that it was yourself, and off I
went to the hotel and asked to see you. And
wasn't my sister surprised when I went back
and told her I was going to sail for tho
Amerikys the very next day !'

 Yes, nurse. I think we arranged the
whole business in about an hour, didn't we ?
Ah, what a comfort you were to me, dear old
thing ! I was very, very sad at that time,
Bentham  worse than I ever told you ;' and
a shadow falls on Beta's face as she
speaks.

'Not more than I guessed on, my dear,'
replies the nurse, softly.

I felt as if I had found a mother again

when you came to look after me. It had
been all so lonely and strange to me before,
and I dreaded going to a new country by
myself

Well you hadn't reason to dread it long,
Miss Beta. No lady ever made such a
success there as you did, my dear ; and it'll
be just another when they see you in London.
Mr. Warren's man told me yesterday that
there's not a seat unlooked for three weeks
to come !'

Oh, you've been getting up a flirtation
with Mr. Warren's man already, have you,
you sly old thing? You're a terrible flirt,
you know, Bentham ; and I am afraid your
association with the staoe has rather demoralised
you, for you seem to me to grow
worse instead of better.'

The old nurse chuckles at the idea as if it
were feasible.

When you say them sort of things, Miss
Beta, your voice reminds me so powerfully

of little Miss Cinthy's  bless her heart, the
pretty dear 1'

Beta sighs audibly.

" Little Miss Cinthy " must be a grownup
young lady now, nurse. You forget how
time flies. She was eighteen last December 1
Oh, how I should like to see her, the darling T
with straining eyes and clasped hands.
How I should like to meet her ! I wonder
I wonder '

What now, Miss Beta V

If she would learn to love me again,
nurse  or if she is still ashamed of me !'

Ashamed of you, my dear, when the
whole town is ringing with your praises, and
half the grand folks will be crazy to know
you 1 I warrant you won't have appeared
half a dozen times at the theatre before
Major and Mrs. Durant will be sitting in the
front row and wishing they had bitten out
their tongues before they'd been such fools
as to quarrel with you.'

Ah ! that woman !' says Beta, with a
shudder. 'How I wish I could forget her
 existence ! I feel as if her presence will
prevent my ever being friends with my
father again, or able to see my dear little
sister

'You mustn't encourage such feelings,
Miss Beta. They're wrong, and six years
is time enough to have got the better of
them. You may never be called upon to sit
down in the same room along of Mrs. Durant;
but if you should be, I know you'll do it, for
Miss Cinthy's sake.'

I wonder if Aunt Janie and Blanche are
living in London now,' goes on jBetha,
musingly ' and if Miss Denny still cultivates
elegance at the Princess College. I think I
must send you over some day to satisfy my
curiosity. It seems so strange to have been
away for six years, and not to know what
may have happened to one's friends during
that interval. Mrs. Henderson and Miss

Montalambert have been my only correspondents,
and they are not acquainted with my
personal friends. The only real change I
know of is dear Mr. Henderson's death;'
and tears sparkle in Bethas eyes as she
thinks of the kind-hearted manager's seat
being vacant in the little parlour in the
Euston Road.

Well, my dear, but what personal friends
is it as you're thinking of?' demands Nurse
Bentham, looking up over her spectacles.

Oh, several,' replies Beta, hesitatingly.
I knew lots of people that you've never
heard of, Bentyy. For instance, there was a
Mr. Free, a young gentleman who lived at
Baron's Court, in Somersetshii'e. I should
like to know if he is married yet, or single 
or  or '

Ah, he was one of your sweethearts, I
suppose. Miss Beta ; and you're curious to
hear if he's forgot you, my dear ! You was
n love with him, 1 guess,'

The girl reddens furiously, although she
laughs at the same time.

Don't say '/ guess," you horrible old
Yankee ! No ; I wasn't in love with him 
not a bit, but he was very kind and good tome,
and  I liked him, and should be pleased
to hear that he is well and happy.'

You'll hear of 'em all in good time. Miss
Beta, never fear ! You forget you've only
been in England a couple of days, and half
your friends don't even know as you've
arrived.'

At that moment a waiter enters to ask if
Miss Selwyn will receive Mrs. Henderson.

Oh, yes, yes !' cries Beta, eagerly ; ' ask
the lady up at once ;' and in another minute
she is crying over and kissing the manager's
poor little widow, who looks half her usual
size, clad in the sable trappings of woe.

Oh, my dear, dear Beta !' she sobs : ' if
poor papa had only lived to see this day !
He used to be so proud of you, my dear, and

so anxious to see you again ; and almost the
last words that passed his poor lips were to
ask me to read out what the New York
papers said of your " Imogen." And here
he's been buried over four months, and I'm
just lost without him.'

I am sure you are,' says Beta ; ' and I
cannot tell you how much I feel his death
too, Mrs. Henderson. It seems to spoil all
the pleasure of coming back to England to
think that he is not here to welcome me.'

*Ah, and he would have welcomed you,
my dear ! You have been his first thought
the whole time you've been away, and often
he frightened me by declaring that he'd
follow you to America. He was so proud
of you, Beta ! He used to say there had
never been an actress like you since Rachel.
And it was papa that induced Mr. Warren
to engage you for this season. I can see
him now, sitting up in bed, poor dear, and
saying, *' Go to any sum, Warren  any sum,

so that you secure the Selwyn " (he always
called you 'tlie Selwyn," you know, my dear);
*' she'll make your fortune." '

Dear papa !' falters Beta. ' He always
thought too well of me.'

No ; he couldn't do that, my dear ; but
he was so proud, poor fellow, to think he
had been the one to discover your talent, and
bring it forward. If he could only have
lived to see your debut at the ' Pompeian "
next Monday I think he would have died
happy. But there ; it's no use talking. It
was not to be ! He's gone, and I don't care
how soon I follow him. But now let me sit
down and have a look at you, my dear.
Well, you are improved ! I should hardly
have known you for the same girl that used
to play at the poor old Marlborough. Let
me see ; what was the last part you played
there the night before you were taken so ill
'' Lady Teazle," wasn't it ?'

Yes, yes !' says Beta, quickly. ' But

don't let us talk of it, Mrs. Henderson. I
can't forget how kind dear papa was to me
on that occasion. Do you ever see anything
of the old faces now ? Mr. Fellowes, and
Charley Lawson, and poor Fanny Price,
whom I used to snub so terribly ? Are they
in town, or in the country f

I am sure I can't tell you, my dear. You
know how little I mixed with any of the
theatre people. They've left the Marlborough
long ago ; of that I'm sure, but I never took
the trouble to ask poor papa what had become
of them. I met one of your friends
though, Beta, a few months ago  though
she's not fit to be called a friend of yours 
but you'll never guess who I mean.'

 It is so difficult to remember names at
this distance of time. It wasn't my aunt,
Mrs. Chapman, Mrs. Henderson, was it ? or
or  my father's wife V

Oh no, my dear, neither  though I
shouldn't know them if I did meet them.

It was that dreadful woman Mrs. Levison,
or whatever she may call herself.'

Beta's heart gives a big jump.

 Mattie Levison ! What was she doing,
Mrs. Henderson ? Surely she did not speak
to you V

Speak to me, Beta ! I should rather
think not ! All her desire seemed, poor
creature, to shuffle out of my way. But you
never saw such an object in your life, my
dear, so ragged and dirty. I took her for a
beggar until she raised her eyes to mine.'

Mattie in rags f exclaims Beta, as her
thoughts fly back to the ruby velvet hats,
the Russian sable trimmings, and the costly
laces. * Oh, Mrs. Henderson, you must have
been mistaken in her ! It was a chance resemblance,
perhaps. It never could have
been Mattie that you saw.'

 My dear, it was Mrs. Levison and nobody
else.'

But in rags !' repeats Beta, still horror-struck,

' when her father and husband are
so rich, and  and '

But even now she cannot bring herself to
speak the name of Geoffrey Clifford.

Why, her husband's married again, my
dear. He got a divorce six months after,
and married one of Lord Comte's daughters.
It was a splendid wedding. The papers
were full of it. And her father, Mr. Kemyss,
failed, you know. I remember poor papa
telling me all about it ; and I think he died
not long after, so it's not likely she'd get help
from either of them. But that Clifford must
have been a mean hound to desert her ! I
never liked Clifford, Beta. He had such a
shifty look in his eyes. The woman must
have been a fool to trust herself to him.'

Mattie in rags !' repeats Beta, as she
gazes before her with eyes swimming in
tears. ' Poor, pretty Mattie ! To what
horrible depths can she have fallen V

The less said about that, my dear, the

VOL. Jii. 39

better ; but I knew you would be astonished
to hear it. It gave rae a turn I can tell you ;
though I never liked her any better than I
did Clifford. They were well matched.
But now, Beta, when are you coming to seeme
1 It will be a sad pleasure to see you
sitting in your old chair again, my dear,
though poor papa will be very present to us
both the while. Can you come and have
a bit of roast mutton with me on Sunday?'


Yes, dear old friend, I will keep Sunday
for you alone. You have the very first claim
upon me.'

Oh, if he could only have lived to see
you play next Monday !' exclaims the poor
little widow with a final burst of tears as she
embraces Beta, and takes her departure.

But the girl stands where she has left her
for some time longer, gazing thoughtfully
upon the stream of life that rolls past below,
especially on that portion of it that is shabby

and slouching and unclean ; what is the
thought that makes her breast heave, and
her eyes fill, and her lips tremble, as she surveys
the stranger crowd ?

Is it the remembrance of Geoffrey Clifford ?

No ; Beta is thinking of a fair face
with the tinge of rose-leaves on it, of a pair
of melting black eyes, of dark rippling tresses,
and a sweet, soft voice that at one time
uttered nothing but kindliness for her.

Mattie in rags !' she whispers over andover
again to herself. ' /  here  and poor,
poor Mattie  in rags 1'

392

SHE IS THE RAGE NOW.'

The play in which Mr. Montgomery Warren
has decided that Beta Selwyn shall make
her first appearance at the Pompeian Theatre
is ' As You Like It and on the night of its
production the house is crowded from pit to
gallery The critics, the managers, and the
leaders of fashion all press to welcome the
actress whose fame has reached them across
the Atlantic, and the general verdict is, that
the fame is well deserved.

As Beta appears before them with all the
archness and vivacity of a true Kosahnd,
combined with her perfect elocution and her

beauty of face and figure, the audience rises
en masse to greet her, and it is many minutes
before she can do else than bow her acknowledgments
for the compliment she has received.


But as scene follows scene, and she rises
like a true artist to the work before her, the
favourable impression she has made gains
ground, and there is but one opinion concerning
the greatness of her talent. The English
stage has gained a genius. She left them asa
promising child  she has returned a perfected
artist. Six years of unremitting study
and practice have brought her literally to the
top of the tree, and from the moment she
steps on the stage of the Pompeian, Beta
Selwyn's name in England is made.

Of course she has her detractors  who has
not ? Envy, a love of dissension, and a desire
to assume fearlessness in their opinions,
induce several journals to differ from the
majority, but the majority win the day.

Where one carping critic declares that her
voice is too weak to be heard in the tenderer
passages, four insist that the delicate modulation
of her tones, which render a whisper
as distinct as the most declamatory speeches,
is one of the greatest charms the new actress
possesses.

And whilst two or three petty papers, who
hope to raise a discussion in order to increase
their sale, assert that her conception of
Rosalind's character is entirely wrong, the
best journals decide that she has given the
world the most original and most delicately
handled reading of that character that it has
ever witnessed.

Whether they differ, however, or whether
they agree, the result remains the same  all
London rings with the name of Beta Selwyn,
and little else is talked or thought of but her
dresses, her appearance, and her acting.

Before she has been a week on the
London stage she is summoned to the Royal

Box to be personally introduced to, and to
receive the congratulations of, the highest
personages of the realm ; after which, of
course, the rest comes easy. Ladies of rank
and title vie with each other to secure the
presence of the famous Miss Selwyn at their
supper-parties and their Sunday dinners; and
the whispers circulate, and the rumours
spread, until her name begins to be linked
with those of various members of the aristocracy,
and the society papers throw out mysterious
hints about 'the accomplished Miss
S   ' and the  Duke of ,' or ' a certain
well-known and justly celebrated actress '
and ' a gallant Colonel in the Guards,

youngest son of the late Earl of C .'

Beta reads out these paragraphs to Bentham
over the breakfast-table, and laughs
heartily at the flimsy foundations she can
trace for their publication ; but the old nurse
is indignant at such a liberty being taken
with her young lady's name, and wants Beta

to write to each paper separately, and deny
the report.

Why, a]l the years we was in the
Amerikys, Miss Betha they never dared to
handle your name in that fashion, and I'm
sure they've impudence enough for any thing-over
there. But to say that you're going to
marry Lord Canterbury, when his lordship
only handed you to your carriage once, and
isn't above eighteen years old at the outside,
is a presumption I wouldn't put up with if I
was you. You should write at once and
give them the lie, my dear ; and tell them
you'll have them up for libel if ever they do
such a thing again !'

Ah, nurse ! it's all very well talking ; but
so long as they mention no names, there's no
remedy for it. It's vulgar, and it's annoying,
but no one suffers so much as themselves for
trying to make stock out of private affairs
that do not concern them. They will suffer
for it some day. They will go rather farther

than they intended, or take liberties with the
name of some one more pugnaciously inclined
than the majority, and then they will be
brought to book for their conduct, and England
will be purged of her latest piece of
snobbery. It is bad enough, as you say, in
America, but somehow it sits better on them
than it does on us. An old conservative
nation should respect the sanctity of its
private homes too much, to rudely pull open
the doors, until their owners have unbolted
them from the inside.'

But publicity is the penalty of popularity,
and Beta is compelled to read her name in
print each time she takes up a newspaper,
and to feel that the world and the journalists
know a great deal more about her than she
does herself. But though she professes to
complain, she enjoys it all. Every servant
of the public does. She smiles, whilst she
frowns to see the portraits of her that are
published (some of them gross caricatures) in

the pictorial papers ; or to hear the whisper,
That is she  that is Miss Selwyn f wherever
she appears amongst her fellow-men. Marvellous
anecdotes are told of her wealth and
her luxurious mode of living, whilst the truth
is, that she continues to reside with old
Bentham at the hotel Adhere she first took up
her residence, leading as regular and quiet a
life as her avocations will admit of, receiving
few visitors, and taking her daily airings in a
modest little brougham which is generally
directed to be driven to Tendon or Hampstead,
or anywhere out of the breath of
London. But all the reports concerning her,
and the fuss the fashionable world is making-over
her, naturally reach the ears of her
relations, and cause them to wish at times, as
the old nurse predicted, that they had not
been in quite such a hurry to cut her adrift
from their society. Major Durant reads the
daily papers with a frown, which is not
lessened by his wife's constant insinuations as

to what their friends are thinking of the
attitude they have adopted in the matter.

Really, Jaroes !' she says, * the situation
is becoming exceedingly awkward. Only
fancy ! Lord Desborough is perfectly aware
that Elizabeth's real name is Durant, and
asked me yesterday if she was not connected
with our family ! Of course I waived the
subject, but I am sure he must have thought
mv manner strange. And I have had to refuse
the dance at Lady Morley's next
Saturday, which Hyacinth was so anxious to
attend, because her ladyship wrote to tell meas
a great inducement, that Miss Beta
Selwyn had promised to be with them by
supper-time that evening, and we must not
miss the opportunity of meeting her ! Really,
James, the whole of the town seems talking
of that girl, and rushing to get an introduction.
We shall be the only people soon
who do not know her.'

Well, I can't help that, my dear,' replies

the major, testily. ' It was by your own
desire that I did not receive her back into
my house, and matters have gone too far to
be altered now.'

Yes,' admits Mrs. Durant, reluctantly ;
when she first ran away to her aunt's in that
absurd fashion, and said all sorts of things
against me, it was only natural that I should
object to her presence here. But now James,
it is quite a different thing. She is the rage
now, you know ; she has made a name for
herself, and everybody is running after her 
and it will look so very strange, if the truth
should ever come out, that ive should have
been the only ones to hold back.'

What do you want me to do?' exclaims her
husband. ' Go and ask my own daughter's
pardon 1 Elizabeth has got a stiff back, I can
tell you. She is her mother over again, and
won't forgive old injuries in a hurry.'

Don't you think if / were to go and see
her I might put matters straight between us.

James ? Elizabeth was always attached to
lier sister, I believe ; and to see Hyacinth
again, may prove a powerful inducement to
her to overlook the past.'

*Well, if you've set your heart upon it,
and Elizabeth is willing to come backward
and forward to the house, I suppose I
shall have to put the best face I can upon
the matter,' grumbles the major ; ' but mind,
Maria, I won't have any pardons asked or
granted. She went of her own accord, and
she may come back of her own accord ; but I
won't have her presence here conferred upon
us as a favour, and that you must make her
understand from the beginning.'

Oh, my dear James ! as if I should compromise
your good name in that fashion.
Leave it to me, and I will arrange matters in
the most natural manner possible ! And
for dear Hyacinth's sake, I really think it
desirable this little feud should be made up.
People will think it so very strange, if the

truth were known ; and Elizabeth was never
very reticently inclined, I remember. Lord
Desborough is so very particular, too. I
heard him say only the other day that he
could forgive anything but deceit. And if
that match were broken off now, it would
break all our hearts.'

 Are you quite sure that acknowledging
our connection with Elizabeth will not have a
hand in breaking it off?'

Oh no, James ! Lord Desborough is one
of her most ardent admirers. He is always
praising her for her excellent qualities off the
stage, and saying how proud he should be to
own her as a friend. And, indeed  I may as
well tell you the truth, James  his lordship
actually knows that Elizabeth is your
daughter, and I have been compelled to confess
the truth to him. And it is in consequence
of what he said on that occasion that
I urge you to let me call upon her and makeup
this little family difference. Indeed, if

we do not do so, I fear our conduct away have
some bad effect upon Lord Desborougli s intentions
with regard to Hyacinth.'

That entirely alters the case says the
major. ' Why couldn't you tell me that at
first ? You women have such an extraordinary
roundabout way of stating a matter.
Of course, if Desborough thinks it right,
you must go and call on Elizabeth. When
will you go  this afternoon ? and shall you
take Hyacinth with you, or leave her at
home T

I do not think I will take her with me
to-day,' replies Mrs. Durant. Elizabeth is
rather proud, if I remember rightly; and it
will take a little manoeuvring, perhaps, to
bring her round. The prospect of meeting
her sister again will be a great inducement
for her to come to our house, and having
once entered it, she can have no reasonable
excuse for not coming again. No, I shall
not take Hyacinth this time

You're a deuced clever woman, my dear,
or you would not have taken me in so
quickly as you did says the major, divided
between admiration for his wife and himself
Have your own way in the matter, and do
as you think best ; only give me a little time
to prepare myself before I meet this celebrated
daughter of mine again, for, by Jove,
Maria, I believe I am more frightened of her
than she will be of me !'

And so it comes to pass, that a few hours
later, as Beta, having returned from her
afternoon drive, is sitting alone in her private
room, a card is brought up to her bearing
the name of ' Mrs. Durant.'

CINTHY IS COMING TO-MORROW !'

Her first impulse is to say that she is not at
home. Although eight years have passed
since she stood by her mother's dying couch
and heard her exclaim, ' Take that woman
away. It is she that has killed me !' Beta
has not yet learned to think of the quondam
Mrs. Wallerton without horror.

The truth is clearer to her now than it was
as a child, when she used to wonder if the
widow had mixed poison with her mother s
food, or personally thrust her out into that
cold, frosty atmosphere that proved her

VOL. III. 40

death. She has understood for some time
past that it was her father s evident predilection
for the flirting widow that provoked the
grievous quarrel that induced her ailing
mother to leave her home ; but she can
hardly forgive her more easily for the one
fact than the other. If it had not been for
Mrs. Wallerton, she might still have had a
mother  that is the paramount idea in
Botha's mind whenever she hears the name
of her father s wife ; and for the first
moment she feels as if she could not see her,
but the next brings with it a thought of
Hyacinth.

Hyacinth, her mother's favourite and
cherished child, may be standing at the
door for admittance 1 Can she deny it to
her ?  Beta, take care of C in thy ; be a
mother to her ! Try and supply my place.
Don't let her miss me 1' The last faint words
vibrate on her memory. After all these
years, has she the right, can she have the

heart, not to receive her own dear sister, by
whomsoever she may be accompanied ?

Her thoughts have occupied more than a
page in the transcription, but they pass
through her brain like wild fire.

task Mrs. Durant to walk upstairs,' she
says, with a gasp, to the servant ; and then
she stands on the hearth rug, proud and pale,
but with the light of expectation in her
eye.

As her step-mother enters the room it
fades. Mrs. Durant is alone, though
wreathed in smiles.

My dear Elizabeth,' she says, with outstretched
hands, ' are ive, of all London, not
to be your friends V

Did  did my father send you here V demands
the girl, without altering her position.


Certainly he did ! Do you think I would
come without his knowledge ? He would
have accompanied me, had he not thought I

402

had better see you first alone. Come, Elizabeth
! We know that certain sad circumstances
parted your dear papa and yourself,
but, for Hyacinth's sake, you must not keep
up the feud any longer. You cannot imagine
how anxious she is to meet you again.'

There was no feud' repeats Beta, with
trembling lips.  My father thrust me from
his doors for your sake, Mrs. Durant ; and
now that I have made an independence,
and trouble no one, don't you think it would
be better, for the peace of all of us, to leave
me to myself?'

Mrs. Durant looks discomfited, for all this
time Beta has not advanced one step in
order to take her hand. Yet she will not
give up the attack.

 No  no  no, my dear Elizabeth ! I
cannot have you talk in that way. Now,
let us look at the affair in a reasonable
light. You were a very naughty girl in
those, days, you know, there's no denying ita

regular young rebel ; and your papa 
well, perhaps he was harsher than he need
have been, and '

And he preferred you to his children and
his wife. Let us speak plainly to each other,
Mrs. Durant. If we are to have any communication
in the future, it must be fair and
above board.'

Very true, my dear  I desire nothing
better. Let us acknowledge, then, for the
sake of argument, that your papa did at one
time have the bad taste you allude to ; you
may be sure it is all over now. Seven years
of married life, my dear Elizabeth, is sufficient
punishment for the sins of one's deadliest
enemy. And I was never that to you,
you know T

No, you were never that to me repeats
the girl mechanically, as she begins to
wonder if she may not have judged the
woman before her too harshly, after all.

All that is past and over,' continues Mrs.

Durant,' and the question now is, whether
the estrangement which followed it is to last
for ever. For your father's and your sister's
sake I think it should not. They are both
willing and anxious to see you again '

Now that I am no longer a disgrace to
them interposes Beta, with a heaving
breast.

Now, my dear, that is very naughty of
you, and very unkind. Of course your papa
was nettled at your going on the stage 
any father would have been  and he is
proud that you have succeeded so well.'

But he never sent you to me until I heed
succeeded,' says Beta.

My dear, how could he '? You were in
America.'

The girl is silenced.

However, he is very anxious to see you in
his house again now. We are still living on
Primrose Hill, and Hyacinth is just crazy to
get her sister back. You would not know

Hyacinth, Elizabeth, she is such a fine girl 
five feet seven in height, and considered very
handsome. She looks as old as you do ; but
then she is dark, you know, and fair people
always wear the best. However, I am sure
you will be pleased with her appearance and
her manners.'

As Mrs. Durant is speaking, a vision rises
before Beta's mental sight of curly locks and
dark eyes, and an impudent little face leaning
over the banisters ; and a great yearning,
which has never slept, stirs in her breast to
see aofain the little sister who, for eioht honos
years, has only come to her in her dreams.

I am sure I shall be pleased with her,
my dear  dear Cinthy! and for her sake '

'You will consent to become one of us
again I' says Mrs. Durant, advancing to the
hearth rug. ' My dear girl, I am so glad to
hear you say so ! This is as it ought to be !*
and as she concludes, the lady bends forward
and kisses Beta's face. She starts, and

draws herself quickly backward. She cannot
yet bring herself to kiss the woman who
stands in her mother's place. But the action
arouses her to some sense of hospitality.

Are you standing all this while V she
says. ' Pray forgive me, Mrs. Durant, and
sit down, and let me order you a cup of tea !
And how is my father after all these years ?
Does he keep his health and his appearance
?'

'Yes, my dear; the major (except for an
occasional touch of liver, which renders his
temper rather trying) is remarkably welland
as often taken for Hyacinth's brother asher
father. And soit are vastly improved,
Elizabeth. We hardly recognised your photographs,
although they are striking likenesses.'

Yes, I believe I have improved,' the girl
answers simply, ' in looks as well as in acting.
Have you been to the " Pompeian " yet,
Mrs. Durant V

'Yes, once. Of course we were anxious

and eager to see you after so long an absence
but theatre-going is an expensive luxury,
Elizabeth, and though we are not poor, we
cannot call ourselves in affluent circumstances.'


I will send you some orders,' says Beta,
if you will let me know which night will be
most convenient to you.'

'But, my dear, you must not talk of
sending  you must bring them to us. Now,
let me see ; when can you spare us a day ?
Think how impatient your papa must be to
see you again.'

I will go to see you any afternoon you
like,' replies Beta, smiling at the idea of
her father's impatience, ' on one condition,
Mrs. Durant, that you let my sister come
and visit me here first. I dare say I shall
be glad myself when this bitter estrangement
is over, but there must needs be a little
constraint between us at the beginning : and
Hyacinth is my own sister, you see  we had

but one mother between us  she seems to
belong so much more to me than to either
you or papa, that I should wish to meet her,
here and alone, before I re-enter my father's
house

Mrs. Durant is disappointed. She would
have liked to carry back Beta triumphantly
that very afternoon  but she is fain to
yield.

Of course, if you wish it,' she answers.
I am sure the major would desire to please
you in every way. If, therefore, I send your
sister to you tomorrow morning, will you
return with her and lunch at Primrose

Hour

'Certainly  gladly!' exclaims Beta, whose
eyes are already dancing with the hope of
clasping her dear sister in her arms again.

The tea is now brought in, and the two
women sit down together and become more
sociable over it. After all, eight years is a
long time for which to cherish animosity fora

fancied wrongs, and after a little while the
old charm of Mrs. Durant's manner begins to
work upon Beta's ardent nature, and she is
ready to call herself names for being hardhearted,
suspicious, and unjust.

Even at this period Mrs. Durant is a very-handsome
woman, and youthful in appearance.
Her age does not exceed forty, and she has a
dozen little contrivances by which to make
herself look quite ten years younger. Her
dress is in good taste, though rather showy,
and taken altogether, she is not a connection
to be ashamed of When she draws closer
to Beta too, and begs her, in a low voice,
with just a suspicion of tears in it, not to
judge her too hardly for what is past, but to
remember there are two sides to every
question, and if she were guilty of an indiscretion,
she has long ago mourned over and
repented it, the girl feels half ashamed of
herself, and begs her stepmother not to
mention the subject again. Upon which

they turn to brighter subjects, and grow
discursive after the manner of women ; and
whilst Mrs. Durant lauds Beta to the skies
for the excellence of her acting, and repeats
all the compliments she has heard thereon,
Beta admires her visitor's dress and bonnet,
and asks a hundred questions respecting
Hyacinth, and other relatives of the family.

Their conversation is interrupted at last by
the appearance of old Bentham, who is not
aware that her young lady is engaged, and
stares with all her eyes Avhen she recognises
the visitor at the tea-table.

Oh, here is dear old Bentyy !' exclaims
Beta, jumping up. 'You must remember

Bentham, Mrs. Durant; she was my moth

I mean,' she continues, recovering herself
with a gasp, ' she was my sister's nurse and
mine, almost from our births ; and she went
out with me to America, and took care of me
the whole time I was there !'

Indeed, I remember Mrs. Bentham very

well, and I am glad to renew my acquaintance
with her,' replies Mrs. Durant graciously,
as she tenders her hand for the old servant's
acceptance.

And oh, Bentyy, only fancy !' cries Beta ;
Cinthy is coming to see us tomorrow
morning !'

My blessed bairn !' exclaims the nurse,
with sparkling eyes ; ' it will be a pleasure to
see her bonnie face again ! Why, Miss
Beta, you look ten years younger for the
very thought !'

I don't think Miss Beta requires to look
ten years younger tor anything, Bentham !'
says Mrs. Durant.  I have just been telling
her that Miss Hyacinth looks as old as she
does.'

Does she now ? bless her dear heart !
Perhaps it's the trouble of their separation
that's done it,' says Bentham, indiscreetly.

I fancy it is more due to her personal
characteristics,' rejoins Mrs. Durant, somewhat

tartly, and then she rises and shakes
out her plumage. * Well then, Elizabeth, we
shall expect you to luncheon at two o'clock
tomorrow, and I hope the first time may
not be the last.'

'And Cinthy is to come to me in the

morning.

Hyacinth shall be with you by eleven
punctually, and I trust the meeting will bea
mutual pleasure. Good-afternoon, Mrs.
Bentham ! Xo, don't trouble yourself to
open the door for me ! I shall always be
pleased to see you in the servants'-hall, you
know, when you may choose to come, and
you can see your nurseling, Miss Hyacinth,
whenever you feel inclined 1'

Here's a change !' exclaims the old servant,
as Mrs. Durant's silk dress rustles
downstairs ; ' me to be asked to go and come
as I choose to the servants'-hall, when the
master put me out almost with his own
hands.'

Oh, we mustn't think of that now, nurse,'
says Beta ;  we must forgive and forget.
It's the right thing to do, isn't it ? And I
really think she intends to be very kind to
both of us. And Cinthy is coming tomorrow
morning at eleven ! Only fancy
that, Gently ! our darling little Cinthy whom
we used to spoil so terribly ! I feel as if I
could never be glad enough to think I am to
see and speak with her again. But she isn't
a baby any longer, nurse ! Mrs. Durant
says she is much taller than I am  five feet
seven  only imagine ! and quite a young
woman of fashion, I suppose !'

I warrant you are the biggest child of the
two, Miss Beta ; and will remain so to your
life's end I Miss Cinthy was always a little
woman in her ways and words.'

Oh, I shall love her much better as a
woman, Gently. The darling ! She will
tell me all her secrets and little love-affairs,
and she will come to me for advice and sympathy,

and feel almost as if she had found
her mother again. I mean to be like a
mother to her, nurse. To teach her to regard
me as her friend and counsellor, and to help
her to avoid the traps I have fallen into !'
And here Beta heaves a deep sigh. ' For
life is full of temptations for a young innocent
girl, Bentham ; but my Cinthy shall never
fall into them whilst her sister is able to
shield her from them.'

Maybe Miss Cinthy will know as much
about traps and temptations as you do, Miss
Beta.'

Oh, nurse ! how should she ? My Cinthy !
why, she is only just eighteen ! I dare say
she has never thought about love yet, or
lovers, or any such nonsense ! She must be
fresh from school ! She has not been thrown
upon the world from a mere girl, as I
have.'

Yet you have kept clear of such things,
Miss Beta ! haven't you V

 I  ? Oh yes, Bentyy !' is the stammering
reply ; ' you know I have. I expect it
would be rather difficult to have a lover without
your finding it out, you sly old thing !
You are always poking your nose into my
private affairs ! But now I'll tell you what
you must do for me. As soon as I have
gone to the theatre to-night, you must take
a cab and drive to those jewellers we calledon
in Bond Street yesterday, and tell them
to sent one of their men hero tomorrow
morning without fail, with a selection of
their prettiest bracelets for me to choose
from. I must give my darling sister something
very nice in remembrance of the day
on which Ave meet again.'

Bracelets, Miss Beta 1 But what sort,
and at what price V

Oh, I don't know I the best they have.
Do you think I am going to stick at a few
pounds for my Cinthy ? Say it is for a
young lady ; and it may cost twenty, thirty,

VOL. III. . 41

forty, fifty !  yes, I don't care if it costs a
hundred pounds, so long as it's handsome and
good, and worthy of her I Handsome and
good, like my sweet, darling sister ! My
precious Cinthy ! God bless her !'

'she is older than I AM.'

The next morning is a bright May day, wann
sunny, and perfumed ; and long before the
hands of the clock point to eleven, Beta is
pacing up and down her private sitting-room,
with her cheeks and her heart on fire, as sho
thinks of the meeting before her.

I expect you'll look the younger of the
two this morning, Miss Beta,' remarks
Bentham, as she carries in her young mistress's
coffee. ' Why, in that white dress,
with your hair hanging down your back, I
declare you don't look one day over seventeen
!'

412

 Do I look young V cries Beta. ' Oh,
nurse, if you only knew how old m} heart
feels ! To have been separated from her for
so many years  not to be sure if I shall recognise
her even when we do meet  it is
exciting me so, I shall have no rest until I
have heard her dear voice say that the past
troubles will make no difference in our
sisterly affection.'

Lor, my dear, you'll hear her say it soon
enough ! What else should she say, bless
her ! But now you had better let me plait
up your hair whilst you take your coffee.'

What does it signify ? What will Cinthy
care how my hair looks ? And my headaches,
nurse. I would rather you left it
alone. Oh, how slowly the time goes [
Surely it must be more than half-past ten ?
If anything happens to prevent her coming,
I shall go crazy !'

Nothing will happen to prevent it, Miss
Beta. Mrs. Durant will send her sure

enough ! She is too anxious to make it up
with you to fail of her promise. They're
mighty proud of you all of a sudden, my
dear 1 I told you it would be so ! Now
that all London is raving about you, and
princes and princesses of the blood royal
have shaken you by the hand, they've found
out that you'll be an ornament and an attraction
at Primrose Hill. And so you will,
Miss Beta ; and I hope you'll hold your
head high, for you've every call to do so, and
not let yourself be imposed upon by Mrs.
Durant, nor the major, nor any of 'em.'

Oh, Bentyy, how nasty you are this morning
! One would think you wanted to put
me out of temper just as my dear Cinthy is
coming! Hush, didn't something stop at
the door just now ? Quick, nurse ! look and
seel'

Only a hansom, my dear 1' replies the old
woman, peering through the lace curtains; 'and
that won't be Miss Hyacinths take my word I

Mrs. Durant would never send a young lady
by herself tearing about in a hansom to a
public hotel at this time of day.'

She will come in the carriage, of course,'
says Beta.

But at this moment the door is opened,
and before the waiter can announce the
visitor's name, a young lady, robed from head
to foot in a costume of the palest French
pink cashmere, thrusts herself forward and
enters the room.

She is a most wonderful young lady to
look at ; very pretty and very fashionable :
With an eel-skin dress that fits her figure
like a glove  a profusion of dark curls over
her brow  more than a suspicion of pearl
powder on her face  and a patch of black
plaister under her left eye io increase the
delicacy of her complexion and the brilliancy
of her glance.

At her appearance, Beta rises in confusions
hardly knowing what to say or do, until

the other sets all her doubts at rest by
exclaiming :

Why, Beta ! I should have known you
anywhere T

Is it Cinthy ?' says Beta, rushing forward
; and then she takes the tall young
lady in her arms, and laughs and cries over
her by turns, repeating : * My little Cinthy !
My darling little sister ! How glad I am to
see you again 1'

For although three good inches taller than
herself, Hyacinth is still ' little Cinthy ' to
her loving sister, and will remain so until
her own tongue has disabused her of the
idea.

Miss Hyacinth returns the kisses vehemently,
but when at last they separate, and
stand side by side upon the hearth rug, there
are no tears in her eyes to correspond to those
in Betlia's.

Oh, Cinthy ! how you have grovv'n I' exclaims
the elder sister, as she looks upward

smiling. ' What a woman you have become !
I never should have recognised you had we
met in the street.'

I rather fancy not,' replies Hyacinth, ina
high, determined tone ; ' but did you expect
I should stand still? I have been ' oiif
two years already, Beta ! Mamma says she
doesn't see the good of keeping girls in the
nursery too long.'

Besides, you must be such a companion
for her,' replies Beta. ' But don't you know
Bentham, Cinthy ? Dear old Bentham, who
brought you up from a baby.'

Bless my soul !' cries the younger girl,
putting up an eyeglass ;  is that Bentyy ?
Why, where have you cropped up from,
nurse '? I thought you were dead and buried
years ago.'

And are not you going to give her a
kiss V says Beta, with a disappointed air.

All in good time, my dear,' replies Hyacinth,
as she salutes the old nurse hastily on

the forehead. * Are you as surprised as
Beta to find me such a big child, Bentyy 1
You look as if your eyes were tumbling out
of your head.'

Well, I am surprised, Miss Cinthy, and
no mistake. Mrs. Durant was quite right to
say you looked the older of the two. Why,
Miss Beta here is a baby beside you !'

'A nice baby, to have the whole town
running after her, and to be invited into the
royal box to receive compliments ! I should
like to be that sort of baby very much, Mrs.
Bentham. And oh, Beta, I wanted to ask
you about that. Is it true what I read in
the '' Upper Circles " that the prince told
you he had never seen such acting on the
English stage before, and did the Duke of
Canterbury send you a gold bracelet with
your name on it in diamonds V

Yes, darling ; it is true.'

How lovely ! How jolly it must be to
be an actress ! I never thought it was half

so nice. Mamma set me against it so much,
YOU know, and told me you had disgraced us
all. I never dared mention your name atone
time. " My sister the actress " was a
forbidden topic. It was all mamma's fault,
though. I don't think papa would have
been half so bad except for her. But she is
singing to a very different tune now. I
heard her telling Lady Onslow last night
that ' her daughter, the celebrated Miss
Selwyn," was coming to luncheon to-day.
Such humbug, isn't it '? But it's all right so
long as you do come.'

Then you are glad to meet me again,
dear Cintby V

Of course I am. It was most awkward
having to shirk mentioning your name ; and
people would sidle up to me when mamma's
back was turned, and ask, in a whisper, if I
had not a sister on the stasfe. I hated it I'

Poor darling ! What trouble I have
brought on you 1' sighs Beta.

Oh, it's no matter now, Beta. We shall
see each other as much as we like. And I
mean to go to the theatre so often and see
you act. I think you do it beautifully  it
makes me cry ! Papa's so stingy, I shouldn't
get him to go ; but he lets Lord Desborough
take me wherever I choose ; and Desborough
admires you as much as I do.'

And who is Lord Desborough, dear  an
old friend of yours V

Yes ; pretty well. Ill tell you by-and-by,'
says Hyacinth, mysteriously ; and then,
raising her voice, she adds to Bentham : * I
say, old lads couldn't you toddle out of the
room and leave Beta and me to ourselves
for a bit r

Oh, Cinthy !' commences Beta, in remonstrance,
but the nurse stops her.

I ought to have gone before. Miss Beta.
It was foolish of me not to remember how
many things your sister and you must have
to say to each other after such a long separation.

Let me give you one more kiss, my
bonnie bairn,' she continues, as she looks
into Hyacinth's laughing face. 'Well, you
are a beauty, and no mistake, though there's
no look of your dear mamma in you. It's
Miss Beta as favours her;' and with that
Bentham salutes her nursling, and leaves
the room.

What a bore old servants are !' says
Hyacinth, as she rises and looks in the
glass, and daintily touches her face with her
cambric handkerchief.  I hate all that kissing
and pawing  don't you, Beta V

Old Bentham has been so very kind tome,
Cinthy, that I can't hate anything she
does. But now that we are alone, dear, tell
me about this Lord Desborough. Is he
young or old ?'

Oh, young  about thirty, I suppose.'

And nice V

Hyacinth shrugs her shoulders.

Assez hen!'

Surely, Cintliy, it is not a case. My
little sister has not besun to think of admirers
yet, has she V

Cinthy does not blush, but she looks uneasy,
and laughs.

If you mean by that to ask me if I'm in
love with Desborough, Beta, I can answer
decidedly no ! But I am engaged to him.'

What !' cries the elder sister, in an incredulous
tone.

I am engaged to be married to him,'
repeats Cinthy, carelessly, ' and I believe it
is considered an excellent match. At least,
mamma is always drumming into my ears
how grateful I ought to be to Providence,
and all that sort of rubbish ! But he's an
awful frump, and I'm sure I don't know how
I shall ever get on with him.'

Beta's eyes dilate with horror. Something
in Hyacinth's tone recalls so palpably
to her mind the conversation she held with
Mattie Kcmyss, years ago, on the subject of

lier proposed marriage with Mr. Levison.
There is the same heartless ring in both the
Osiris' voices  the same careless indifference
when alluding to their want of affection for
their future husbands. And though her sister
sits beside her, clad in French pink and French
lace, Mattie is somewhere  God only knows
inhere  in rags !

Why, what's the matter V cries Cinthy,
as she looks into her sister's startled face.

Nothing, darling ; only it frightens me
to hear you talk so. It is a fearful risk to
marry without love, Cinthy I I would
rather be dead myself, a thousand times
over.'

Oh, you take it too seriously, my dear.
Real life isn't like a play, you know. Besides,
did I say I didn't love him ? It was
going too far, if I did. He's a prosy, good
young man, you know ; not the sort of
person for whom one could conceive ite
grande passion ; but one doesn't "go in" for

that sort of thing after one's salad days  eh,
Beta X

And when did your '' salad days " end V
asks Beta, smiling.

Oh, you must know what I mean, child.
Your own experience will give you the explanation.
I suppose every girl is in love, or
fancies herself so, two or three times before
she settles. I have had several very warm
flirtations myself, but of course the men were
ineligible  they always are  and so my
final fate has turned out to be Lord Des-borough.
He isn't a bad sort. I dare say
you'll like him very well ; but I'm not in
love with him, and I never jure tended to be.'

Well, I shall never marry unless I am in
love,' says Beta. * I have seen the misery
of it on more than one occasion

And you are not engaged then, ma helle.
All the better ! You have come to the land
of money and fools, and will have leisure to
make a sensible choice.'

My darling little sister, I wish yuu
wouldn't speak like that ! It makes me unhappy
 for I think you must be so.'

I am not, indeed, Beta. I am very
well contented with my lot, and I think I
shall make a most charming viscountess.
But do tell me the truth now. Have you
never been in love ? I should have thought
you would have had heaps of admirers, and
not known which to choose.'

 Admirers are not lovers,' says Beta, ina
low voice.

 Lovers, then ! How you do quibble at
words ! Confess, now ! Are you not in love
with some nice fellow or other V

No, Cinthy,' says Beta, sadly, ' not now I
I don't mind telling you that I tuas in love
once  very much in love  with a person with
Avhom I was thrown in contact ; but I found
out that he was not worthy of my affection,
and so I fought against, and conquered

it;

Poor dear Beta 1 And did it make you
unhappy V

For a time, darling ; but that is all past
now  and you must not tell my secret to
anybody. Perhaps, after all, it is as well not
to be too much in love, Cinthy ! One expects
so much in return, and is so apt to be disappointed.'


 Oh ! you're always sure to be disappointed
in men,' replies cynical Miss Cinthia. * You
should hear mamma enlarge on that subject.
She's safe to give you a dose of it before
you've been in the house three times. How
she thought papa was an angel, etc., etc., and
how he's turned out to be just the other
thing.'

Do you" mean to say that they are not
happy together V demands Beta, with open
eves.

That depends upon what you call "happy"
my dear. Beta ! you remember our own
mother, don't you V

VOL. III. 42

Oh, Hyacinth ! how can you ask me such
a question 1 Remember her ! I should think
I do  every word and look, dear darling
mother ! You forget that I am six years
older than yourself.'

No ! I don't, my dear ; and perhaps
you will be all the more surprised to hear
that I have not forgotten her either. But what
I remember best are the rows we used to have
in the house. And they're just as bad now.'
I am sorry,' says Beta, with genuine
concern.

It's all papa, you see, Beta. He has
the most aggravating temper, and exercises
it on the whole household. I expect our
poor weak mother had a nice time of it.
But mamma is quite equal to the occasion.
She gives it him, right and left, I can tell
you ; and I have often heard her say that
his late wife was a great deal too good for
him, and that it was his unkindness that
hurried her into her grave.'

Beta lias sunk into a chair, and is crying
quietly.

Oh ! Cinthy dear, if I am to go back
with you to Primrose Hill, please don't tell
me of these things. They bring back our
dear mother's memory too powerfully to my
mind

Well, Beta, I must just make one remark,
and then I have done. Both papa's
marriages have been love-matches  don't
forget that! He has won two wives pour
V amour de ses beaux yeux, and a nice husband
he has made to both of them. Because,
you know, mamma isn't half a bad woman
to live with. In fact, if papa was out of the
way, we should get on remarkably well together.
Only let me give you one caution
respecting her. If you've got a nice young-man
that you want to keep to yourself,
don't put him in her way, or he'll be gone
before you can say Jack Robinson. She's
an awful flirt, and would accept admiration

422

from her footman if she couldn't get it from
anybody else ! She tried all she could to
entice Lord Desborough away from me, at
first, and has never quite forgiven me for
her own failure. And now I think you
know the worst of her.'

'Suppose we talk of our own mother,'
says Beta in a gentle voice. ' Do you know
how fond she was of you, dear Cinthy 1 Her
last words were a prayer that God might bless
you ; her last command to me, an injunction
to be your friend and your protector, and to
take care of you. And so I would have
done, darling, if they had let me. So will
I do now, if you will permit me yourself
Don't make a stranger of me, Cinthy. I am
nearer to you than Mrs. Durant, remember ;
nearer, I think, than papa  because you
have such a strong claim upon me, not only
as my sister, but my mother's favourite child.
Tell me everything, dearest. Let me advise
and counsel you, as far as lies in my power,

and depend upon it that whilst I live you
shall never want a true and faithful friend.'

She is holding her sister's hand in hers,
and Cinthy, beneath the searching look of
Beta's eyes, turns somewhat pale, and
trembles and looks down.

I think you are very like our mother, as
I can remember her, Beta,' she says.

Oh ! continue to think so, darling. Let
me stand in the place of our mother to you,
my poor motherless Cinthy ! Depend on it
that no one has ever loved you better than
she and I did.'

The younger girl's heart is touched. She
turns and hides her face in her sister's
bosom.

I am sure of it, Beta ! Her words and
looks seem to come back to me again, as I
watch your face and hear you speak. Oh !
how I wish I could tell you everything  I
must tell you everything  but not now ! 
not now ! Look ! it is nearly half-past one ;

and our luncheon is at two ; and you have
still to dress. Had you not better go to
your bedroom V

And will you come with me V says
Beta, as she dries her eyes and tries to
smile.

No ! You won't be long, I dare say, and
I would rather remain here and examine
these photograph-albums. What a quantity
you have ! How jolly it must be to be taken
in so many different attitudes. But isn't ita
bore to have to sit so often V

Rather ! But whilst I am absent, Cinq
I want you to look at these bracelets,
and choose the one you like best.'

For myself, Beta ? Oh ! how good you
are ! I shall never be able to make a choice ;
they are all so beautiful !'

Please yourself, and you will please me,'
says Beta, with a farewell smile as she disappears
to her bedroom. But as she enters it,
she laws her head down on the dressing-table

and has a little cry, before Bentham is
able to plait up her luxuriant hair.

You are disappointed in the bairn, Miss
Beta; I can see that.'

Oh no ! Bentyy ; not disappointed  at
least, I ought not to be  for she is very
pretty, isn't she ? and everything that is
pleasant and sweet  only  I have been
foolishly fancying that I could be her mother
and her friend, and she is older than I am,
nurse, by a good many years of experience
in the folly of the world.'

Didn't I tell you so, my dear ? Why
Miss Cinthy was always like that from her
cradle, and ordered about your mamma and
you as if you were two slaves. We always
called her '' the little missus" in the nursery.
And do you suppose she'd alter as she grew
up ? Not a bit of it. Miss Beta. She's a
bonnie bairn  bless her heart! but the
bonniest part of her is on the outside.'

Oh, nurse ! don't say that !'

*Miss Betba, don't you think anything
else, or you'll be grievously disappointed.
Miss Cinthy would have been masterful
enough under your mamma's government,
and what do you suppose she will be under
Mrs. Durant's ? Why, just her own mistress
and everybody else's.'

She has promised to make me her friend
and confidante says Beta, sadly.

Well, that's a good thing, my dear, for if
anyone could teach her right from wrong it's
yourself. So let us hope for the best, Miss
Beta, for if I've any foresight, my bonnie
bairn will live to bless the day when she met
again her sister the actress.'

SHE CANNOT QUITE FORGET.'

Beta's first audience with her father after
seven years of separation, is conducted with
so much grandeur and pomposity, as would
appear quite a comical proceeding in the eyes
of anyone who was not acquainted with the
reason of their estrangement. Mrs. Durant
had been wise enough to order herself to be
denied to all visitors, so that the meeting maybe
strictly a private one ; and as Beta and
Hyacinth enter the doors of the house on
Primrose Hill, they are informed that the
major awaits their presence in the library.
Better come and get your tooth out at once

says Hyacinth, irreverently, as she pulls her
sister towards the library door. ' He ought
to be horribly ashamed of himself, and if he
isn't, I hope you'll make him feel so.'

But Beta refuses to be pushed headlong
into the arms of Major Durant. She has
received Mrs. Durant courteously, and her
sister affectionately ; but she cannot quite
forget that her father is at the bottom of all
the misery and humiliation and loneliness
she has been made to suffer for so many
years past ; and if she has now worked her
way up to a position of envy, it is from no
assistance that he has given her. The last
time they saw each other, he cursed her for
her likeness to her dead mother, and thrust
her  his own flesh and blood  from his
doors, when she was ready and willing to reenter
them and do her duty. Beta has no
false sentiment about her nature. The idea of
reconciliation with her family is sweet to her,
for Hyacinth's sake, but it cannot blind her to

the fact that her father is a selfish, narrow-minded,
and cowardly man, who does not
disdain to wage war with women and children,
even when he has vowed to love and cherish
them.

A more emotional girl might rush into his
arms, in the joy and excitement of reunion,
and sob out what is not true  that the
fault of the estrangement lies at her door.
Beta cannot tell a falsehood even in her
softest moments. The same pride that nerved
the young girl of sixteen to go forth into the
world and earn her own livelihood, makes the
successful and triumphant woman feel that it
is not her part to sue for a reconciliation
Which she has never forfeited.

Whilst she halts upon the threshold of the
library her father stands within, in a curious
state of nervous trepidation.

He told his wife yesterday that he believed
he should be more alarmed at meeting his
daughter, than she would be at meeting

him  and be was rislit. Now that the
moment has arrived, he would like to runaway,
if that were possible, sooner than
encounter her. The last interview they held
together is as present to his mental vision as
to hers. He knows what a craven, unmanly
part he took on that occasion, and he dreads
what he shall read in Elizabeth's clear grey
eyes when they meet again.

But neither father nor daughter have much
time for deliberation, before Hyacinth has
pushed open the library-door with the exclamation
:

Here is Beta, papa I' and they advance
towards each other and meet in the centre of
the room.

Beta makes no sion nor gesture of greeting.
She waits to let Major Durant take
the initiative in welcoming her back to, as he
did in turning her out of, her natural home.
Her inaction renders him still more nervous.

Well, Elizabeth,' he commences with a

jerky laugh, as he takes her passive hand and
kisses (or rather pecks) her on the forehead,
I am glad to see you again, and I trust our
reunion may be productive of mutual pleasure
and benefit.'

I trust it may, papa.'

We have been separated for many years,
and perhaps absence has made both of us see
a little clearer than we did. It is foolish for
the members of one family to quarrel, Elizabeth,
very foolish ; they are like the bundle
of sticks, you know, strong when united and
weak when apart. So that I hope we have
seen the last of dissension in ours.'

I hope so too, papa.'

The major grows still more uncomfortable.
He does not like the task of sustaining all
the conversation.

I think you are grown, Elizabeth  considerably
grown  and very much improved ;
but you are not like 'Hyacinth. You are the
genius of the family, I suppose, and Hyacinth

is the beauty; so your merits are equally
divided.'

What rubbish you are talking, papa !'
cries Miss Hyacinth, pertly. ' Beta's face
and mine are in such different styles that no
one but you would think of comparing them.
She is just like poor dear mamma, and I am
the image of you ; and most people would
consider her much the handsomer of the
two.*

I am not envious of that distinction,
Cinthy/ says Beta, smiling ; ' I am quite
ready to yield the palm of beauty to yourself.
If I only resemble my dearest mother in her
character as well as her face, we will give
papa all the credit of your pretty features.'

For the life of her, she cannot help letting
him understand from the beginning, that no
amount of reconciliation can ever make her
unfaithful to the memory of her mother.

You are neither of you daughters to be
ashamed of  as far as your looks go,' replies

Major Durant. He guesses the reason why
Beta has mentioned his dead wife's name,
and will have his little slap at her profession
in return.

Well, I should think not T exclaims
Hyacinth. * What more do you want % You
have two of the best-looking and cleverest
daughters in London, and you'd better mind
your P's and Q's with us, papa, into the
bargain ; for I'm going to be a viscountess,
and Beta is engaged to be married to a
duke, and we'll never ask you to a single
dinner-party unless you behave yourself.'

'Cinthy! how can you talk such nonsense!'
says Beta. ' You know I am not engaged
at all.'

Well, you might be tomorrow, if you
chose, so it comes to the same thing, and
for my own part, I have not yet made
up my mind whether, when I am Lady
Desborough, I shall own papa and mamma
at all. It will sound awfully bad, won't

it ? for her ladyship's father to be nothing
but an old major on the retired list, with
a bald place as big as a cheese-plate on the
top of his head, and trousers that ** bag "
at the knees ! Your trousers do *' bag: " at
the knees, papa ! I've told you of it several
times, and Desborough asked me the other
day if you dealt at Kino's. That was a nice
question, wasn't it ? for the future viscountess
to be called upon to answer 1'

Major Durant laughs heartily  rather
more heartily than easily  at these pleasantries
on the part of his younger daughter,
and Beta feels thankful for them  pert and
silly though they be  as a prevention to more
earnest conversation.

 I have not yet seen Mrs. Durant !' she
remarks presently.

She's in the drawing-room, and the
luncheon is probably half spoilt,' says
Hyacinth ;  so come along, Beta, and let us
find her.'

Permit me 1' interposes the major, offering
his arm to his elder daughter, and so he
conducts her in state to the presence of her
step-mother.

Mrs. Durant receives her with effusive
affection : the stiffness of the previous day-has
vanished, and to see the greeting she
bestows on Beta, one would think they had
lived all their lives together. It is infinitely
amusing also, during the meal that follows,
to hear her speak of the young actress's
genius and success, and claim a share in both
as the natural due of the family that has
had a hand in producing them.

What people say and think and do, regarding
the celebrated Miss Selwyn, flows as
naturally from her lips as though they had
been in the habit of lunching with each
other every day, and she rather flaunts than
otherwise the fact of the girl's profession
and the triumphs it has brought her, as
though she war calling on the very do-vol.

III. 43

mystics to fall down and worship this golden
calf, who has once more returned to the
bosom of her family.

Major Durant, on the other hand, preserves
a decided stiffness on the subject of
the stage, and makes answers in monosyllables
when called on to join in his wife's
psalms of praise. The very name of it
recalls his ill-treatment of the girl before
him, and he resents the idea, not for what
she is, but for what he falsely prophesied she
would be. He cannot help being glad that
Beta should become a source of pride instead
of a disgrace to him : but yet he
cannot forgive her for putting him in the
wrong. He has the false petty shame of a
mean nature that cannot bring him to
acknowledge he was mistaken, even though
that mistake has turned out for his own
good.

So that, notwithstanding Mrs. Durant's
flattering compliments and out-spoken praise,

the luncheon is not a happy meal to Beta,
and it is made less so by hearing the way
in which Hyacinth addresses both her
parents, and which, from their complete
indifference, is evidently her usual manner.

Beta has met with several discourteous
and unrefined companions on the stage, but
they have been girls raised from a lower
rank of life  not young ladies reared in the
atmosphere of a private house. She has yet
to make acquaintance with the fast girl of
the period, who has no respect for age, nor
religion, nor public opinion, nor even for
herself.

Bentham has truly said that Beta is the
greater child of the two. Beside this offhand
out-spoken younger sister, she feels as if
she were a babe in arms.

The meal is over at last, and everyone is
thankful when they rise from table.

You will spend the afternoon with us, my
dear,' says Mrs. Durant ; ' I am longing to

432

have a good talk with you in the drawing-rooms


Oh, then, mamma ! you won't have any
such thing interposes Hyacinth ; ' because
Beta is coming up to my bedroom with me
to look over my things.'

But, Cinthy ! I had better go with Mrs.
Durant first,' says Beta, mindful of what is
due from a visitor to her hostess.

Rubbish !' exclaims the younger girl,
petulantly ; ' she only wants to hear about
the prince and princess over again ! I'm
sure she's talked enough at luncheon to last
her a lifetime. It's not fair to try and take
Beta away from me, mamma, on the very
first day she comes home, too ! She's not
your daughter, remember, and she is my
sister.'

Oh ! very well,' says Mrs. Durant, resignedly
; ' of course you will have your own
way, Hyacinth. I am nothing in this house
compared to you I However, if your papa.

permits you to behave in that fashion, no one
else has a ricrht to interfere.*

Hyacinth ! I shall go into the drawing-room
for half an hour, first says Beta,
decidedly.

Oh, don't coaxes Cinthy, with her arm
round her waist. ' Come with me !'

It is very hard to resist you, darling, but
I must do what is right ! The carriage
will not call for me till five, so we shall have
plenty of time for a talk in your bedroom
afterwards.'

Cinthy pouts and pleads and tries to shake
her sister's determination in vain. For once
she finds her own will opposed with gentle
firmness ; and under the new phase of discipline,
follows Beta into the drawing-room,
and tries what she can do to render Mrs.
Durant's interview with her as unsatisfactory
as possible.

Here's my prig Desborough !' she
exclaims, in the midst of an earnest inquiry

from her step-mother as to where Beta
procured those lovely dresses she saw her
wear as Portia in * The Merchant of Venice ;'
and jumping up, she places a photograph in
her sister's hand.

It represents a young man of whom
nothing worse, nor better, can be said than
that he is not un gentlemanly, nor stupid, nor
ugly ; indeed the whole of Lord Desborough's
life, like his appearance, deals in negatives,
and perhaps the most positive thing about
him is the rashness with which he has
entered into an engagement to marry Hyacinth
Durant.

Doesn't he look a noodle V continues
Cinthy ; ' I told him so when he gave it
to me, so starched and prim. I hate a prim
man. I know he'll turn out a bully like
papa. They always do !'

 I wish you would not mention your papa
in that disrespectful way before me. Hyacinth
remarks Mrs. Durant, grandly.

Oh, now, mamma ! it's no good putting
on any airs before Beta, because I've told
her all about the rows you have with papa.
But if Desborough tries on any of those
games with me, he'll find he has come to the
wrong box. I shall have the benefit of my
home experience, and know how to 'squash "
him in the bud.'

Oh dear  oh dear ! it is terrible to hear
you talk of such an estimable young man in
that careless manner. But I trust you will
not take all this giddy girl says for gospel,
my dear Elizabeth. She has been most
fortunate in securing the affections of such a
person as Lord Desborough, who '

I know I have,' interrupts Hyacinth,
without ceremony. ' He was considered the
best parti of last season. Twelve thousand
a year, Beta, a house in Portland
Place, and a very nice box in the country.
But I know somebody whom I would rather
marry, ten times over.'

You shouldn't think of such things : it is
very wrong remarks Mrs. Durant, sententiously.


*A11 the nice things are wrong,' laughs
Hyacinth ; ' nevertheless, it is true, and you
know it, mamma.'

I have heard some such nonsense from
your lips, Hyacinth, but I trusted you had
forgotten all about it long ago,' replies her
step-mother.

I think Lord Desborough is very distinguished
in appearance,' says Beta, with a
desire to turn the conversation ; ' and after
all, that is the main thing. Beauty in a man
is quite a secondary consideration.'

Of course it is !' acquiesces Mrs. Durant.

Well I I don't think so !' says Hyacinth ;
and here the subject drops.

But as soon as they find themselves in the
bedroom together, Beta turns to her sister
with a face full of anxiety.

BE TRUE TO YOURSELF.'

It is a pretty, fresh-looking bedroom, daintily
furnished in blue and white, and ornamented
with photographs and bits of china ; a fit
nest, apparently, for innocent and ingenuous
maidenhood ; and Beta is half ashamed
to feel suspicious in such an atmosphere
of milk and roses. Yet her anxiety for her
sister weighs down all other considerations,
and the voice in which she puts her first
question decidedly trembles.

Cinthy, darling I you did not mean what
you said just now, downstairs V

'What did I say downstairs?' says that
young lady, flippantly.

She has seated herself beside her sister, in
front of an open window that overlooks the
Park. Before them is spread the grass of
Primrose Hill ; beyond, the trees are waving,
the birds are sin52:inof, and little children are
toddUno to and fro, filling: the summer air
with their baby laughter. How is it possible
to have a thought of evil amidst so many
sweet sounds and sights of innocence ?

What are you alluding to, Beta V
demands Hyacinth, as she squeezes her
sister's arm affectionately, and looks up into
her face ; * I said so many different things
downstairs.'

I am wronging you, perhaps, even to
mention it, dear Cinthy ; and I am sure you
cannot have considered the interpretation
some people might put upon your words.
But just now, when you were speaking of
Lord Desborough, you said there was someone

else whom you would rather marry ten
times over. Surely  surely, my darling
sister ! that cannot be true V

Hyacinth opens her big dark eyes to their
fullest extent.

Surely  surely it is, Betha/ she repeats.
And why should you be so surprised at it ?
There are a dozen fellows of my acquaintance
whom I would rather marry than Desborough
except for the title, you know ! Didn't
I tell you I am not in love with him,
and never shall be ! We don't pull together
at all. He is shocked at everything I do,
and I am disgusted at everything he says ; so
how is it possible we should agree ''

But, my dearest child, you will never
marry him on such terms ! Why, you will
be miserable together. Marriage ought to
be such a very close tie ; so tender a friendship
! Such a complete mingling of ideas and
interests and affections.'

Beta I no one marries with such notions

nowadays says the younger girl, with an
air of ineffable wisdom. ' A woman would
be laughed at for expecting it

'But to pass your life without love or
sympathy, Cinthy I Have you thought what
a terrible privation that will be to you ?*

I don't see why I should pass my life
without it. I can have friends, I suppose?
I have several now ! You don't suppose,
Beta, do you, that I have given up all my
lovers, because I am going to marry Lord
Desborough f

But you should have done so, Cinthy !
It is very wrong not to do so ! You are
breaking faith with Lord Desborough every
time you allow another man to look at you
with eyes of admiration I'

Hyacinth bursts into a peal of laughter.

Oh, Beta ! how comical you are ! What
old-fashioned notions you have preserved !
I think they must be some remnants of Miss
Denny's " elegance," from the Princess

College. Fancy, not allowing another man
to look at me ! Why, I get flowers, and
notes, and music, and all that sort of rubbish
from different people every day. I know
half-a-dozen fellows who are ready to die forme.
But I don't care for them, you know,
Beta ! There is only one man '  with a
deep sigh  * that I really care for in the wide
world, and he is the best, and the cleverest,
and the handsomest darling that was ever
seen. But it's of no use ever thinking about
him !'

Why not, Cinthy ? Does he not care for
you V

Oh, he loves me to distraction, my dear,
but les got no money  at least none to speak
of. I have been carrying on with him for the
last twelvemonth, and I dare not tell him I
am enoraoed to Desborouoh, for I believe

or) o '

he'd murder him or me, or all three of us !'

And what is this gentleman's name,
Cinthy r

Hyacinth looks up suspiciously. * You
won't tell mamma or papa  will you !' -

 Darling ! how can you ask me ? Have
I not promised to be your friend ? Indeed,
Cinthy, I will mention the name before no
one except yourself.'

I believe you, Beta ! Somehow I have
more trust in you than in anybody I have
ever known, although we have been separated
so many years. Well, then, his name is
Gervase Claverton  the Honourable Gervase
Claverton : he is one of Lord Lichfield's
sons : and we met him in Paris the year
before last. Isn't *' Gervase " a sweet name,
Beta ! Sometimes I go to sleep saying it
to myself; and if you saw him, you would
say he is as sweet as his name !'

But you do not meet this gentleman
except in society, surely, Cinthy V or when
you are with papa and Mrs. Durant V

Oh, don't I ! That's all you know about
it, Beta. Why, we're always meeting

in the Park, or on Hampstead Heath, or in
Kensington Gardens. And he writes me
such dear letters, too  to the Vigo Street
Post-office. Sometimes I can't get out to
fetch them, but we have an awfully good
little maid here  the under-housemaid  and
she is in my confidence, so they don't stay
there long.'

During this recital, Botha's face has grown
pale with dismay.

'Oh, Cinthy, Cinthy !' she cries, you
must give up this acquaintance !'

The younger girl regards her with unmitigated
astonishment.

Why ! what harm is there in a little
flirtation ? Every girl does the same.'

But not every girl that is engaged to be
married to another man, Cinthy.'

Indeed they do, and after they're
married as well as before,' pouts Hyacinth.
You talk as if it were a crime, Beta. I'm
not particularly good at my Bible, but I

know there's nothing in the commandments
about not flirting, because I hear them every
Sunday.'

'It's not the actual flirtation sighs
Beta, ' but what it may lead to, darling.'

Oh, bother what it may lead to !' cries the
younger girl.  Let the future take care of
itself. All I think of is the present, and I am
quite determined not to give up seeing
Gervase Claverton until I am obliged.'

There is silence between them for a few
moments after this, whilst the trees wave on,
and the sparrows twitter, and the fun of the
toddling children become indistinct to Beta,
for the tears through which she views them.

'Look here, Beta dear!' resumes Hyacinth
in a coaxing voice. * What makes you such
an old prude ? I declare you're as bad as
Desborough ! I thought you all flirted and
made love together on the stage, and would
think nothing of a girl having more than one
strings to her bow.'

That is not my experience, Cinthia,' replies
Beta, sadly, * though I dare say it is
the general opinion. The life of an actor is
full of hard work. He has very little time to
think of anything but his business ; and since
the men and women employed at a theatre
only meet there for rehearsals or performances,
there is not much opportunity for
carrying on flirtations behind the scenes.
Of course, some are careless and frivolous
and dishonourable. There are persons of
that class in every place of life ; but I have
found them to be the exception on the stage,
and not the rule.'

' Do you think me dishonourable, Beta V
asks Cinthia, in a low voice.

Heaven forbid, my dearest sister, that I
should apply such a term to you, or believe
that you would knowingly commit a dishonourable
action; but I am horrified to
think you should have been brought up with
such loose ideas respecting right and wrong.

VOL. III. 44

What can papa have been about  or Mrs.
Durant ? Oh, Cinthy ! if our own dear
mother had lived, you would never have
spoken to me as you have to-day.'

Hyacinth twists up her mouth, and looks
down, and plaits the trimming of her dress,,
and makes no answer.

To have engaged yourself to marry Lord
Desborough, Cinthy, is to have engaged yourself
to be the guardian of his honour and
good name. How are you doing that by
keeping up a secret correspondence, and holding
assignations with another man! It is
worse than foolish  it is wicked  though
I acquit you of believing it to be
so.'

 Everybody does the same !' reiterates
Cinth}-.

Then everybody is wrong, darling ! That
is no excuse that you should be so
too!'

'but come now, Beta, do you mean to

tell me you have never carried on a double
game yourself V

Never, Cinthy ! I have many faults, but
I could not live a life of duplicity. Will you
bear with me whilst I tell you a little story,
dearest.'

Go on says Hyacinth, curtly.

/ was once enoaoed to be married,
Cinthy, to a very good young fellow, and
who, I believe, loved me very dearly. But
I did not understand my own feelings. I
accepted him because he had done me a
great service, and I knew how kind and true
he was. But another man came between usa
handsome, brilliant, unprincipled fellow, who
took my heart completely by storm, and
made me miserable. I worshipped that man,
Cinthy ! I thought him the noblest and most
talented creature God had ever made, and
I grew so discontented and melancholy that
Tn.j Chance saw that our engagement had become
a burden to me. So he released me of

442

his own accord, and just as I believed I was
about to be made happy with the love of this
other man, I found that he had deceived me.
He ran away with one of my friends  with
a foolish, flirting, married woman, and dragged
her down with him to misery and disgrace.'


But what has become of the one you
were engaged to, Bet ha f asks Hyacinth,
in a tone of interest. ' Haven't you seen
him since V

Never, dear ! but I know that all must
be well with him, for he went back to live
with his father and grandmother, to whom
he was all the world. He has money, and a
beautiful home and everything his heart can
desire, and I have no regrets on his account.
But I often think, Cinthy, that if that other
man had not come between us, I should have
grown to feel a true friendship and esteem
for my fiance and our engagement might
have resulted in a real union ; a marriage of

hearts and minds, as well as of worldly interests


I hope he was handsome,' says Cinthia.

Why V

Because you'll come together again some
day, perhaps, and I hate ugly men !'

You incorrigible girl !' laughs her sister.
No, Cinthy, there is not the slightest
chance that we shall ever come together, or
even meet again. And perhaps you will be
glad to hear it, for he is not handsome. He
is tall and lanky, and short-sighted, and
when I first saw him I though him remarkably
plain !

How could you ever have accepted him ?
exclaims Miss Hyacinth, with an expressive
moue,

Never mind that now ! I only tell you
the story to put you on your guard. Lord
Desborough may be as worthy of your love
as I firmly believe that young man was of
mine, and Mr. Claverton may prove as

false to you as the other did to me. Oh I
Hyacinth, be true to yourself and the engagement
you have entered into, and keep to
either one man or the other

Beta ! are you ever unhappy V asked
Hyacinth, as she kisses the tears from her
sister's cheek.

A little  dear ! Sometimes,' is the
whispered reply.

What ! when you are run after, and
talked of by all London. If I were you,
I should not have a wish ungratified !'

Ah, Cinthy ! public praise has no power
to fill up a woman's heart. She wants home-love
and duties, and sympathy, and aU the
rest is worth nothing without them !'

And you think they would be enough for
your happiness.'

I am sure they would, for yours and for
mine ! if  you could only see it.'

But I couldn't live without money, Beta.

I should hate poverty, and having to scrape
and save

Then marry Lord Desborough, my child,
and be faithful to him. He has a good true
face, to my mind, and you will be all the
better for a husband who will restrain your
giddiness !'

But what will Gervase say if I tell him V
says Cinthy with a downcast head.

Never mind what he says ; do what is
right, without fear of the consequences, and
you will be the happier for it, darling ! Take
my word that you will.'

'Fancy you lecturing me in this fashion !*
pouts Cinthy. * I never thought you would
preach goody-goody to me the very first time
you entered the house.'

You were prepared to find me twice as
careless as yourself, dear, I suppose  thanks
to those who imbued you with the idea that
an actress must necessarily lose all sense of
principle. But I have not quite forgotten

our mother's teaching, Hyacinth  nor that
her dear spirit may be cognisant of what weare
saying and doing at this very moment. You
will not grieve her, dearest sister. You will
not run the risk even of letting her see one
action that would make her blush for her
little Cinthy.'

The voice  the gaze  the earnest words,
are all so much like those of her dead mother,
that when Beta concludes her appeal by
opening her arms, Hyacinth falls into them,
and cries bitterly.

HE KNOWS YOUR ADDRESS.'

This burst of confidence on the part of
Hyacinth leaves Beta very anxious, but it
also leaves her very happy. The careless and
unprincipled way in which her sister regards
the most serious events of life is a revelation
to her who has not hitherto enjoyed an opportunity
of being instructed in the doctrines
of fashionable morality. But the trust
Cinthia has reposed in her, and the tears she
has shed, give Beta a hope that she may be
able, in the future, to watch over and influence
her for good. She returns to her hotel, full
of her sister's prospects and intentions, and

delights old Bentham with accounts of their
bonnie bairn's ' goodness of heart and frankness
of disposition ; and in the joy of their
reunion, Beta goes to bed that night
happier than she has been for years. She
knows now what she has pined and longed
for  what the one bitter drop in her cup of
success has been  and feels that she would
not give up seeing her sister again for all the
honours and benefits her profession can heap
upon her.

Mother's child I' her fond lips keep on
repeating as she sinks to sleep. ' Mother's
favourite child ! I would lay down my life to
preserve you from evil  for her dear sake.'

And if the spirit of the departed were
hovering over her at that moment, she must
have acknowledged that whatever her earthly
judgment may have been  this was the
daughter who should have been cherished
and beloved the best of all ! After the awkwardness
of the first visit has passed, Beta

goes to Primrose Hill as often as she can, and
Mrs. Durant's afternoon receptions become
crowded by the dear friends who did not consider
it worth their while to visit her for her
own sake, but who flock to her house from sheer
curiosity to see and speak with the actress
on the subject of whose genius all London
wags its mighty tongue. On these occasions
Mrs. Durant and Hyacinth are all flutter and
new ribbons, and  my daughter the actress '
and * my sister the actress ' is the great point
and centre of attraction. Beta goes there,
naturally, for the sake of Hyacinth. Her
father she seldom sees  the antipathy on the
one side, and the shame on the other, will
never die out between these two  and with
Mrs. Durant she has as little communication
as possible ; but she seats herself close to her
sister directly she enters the room, and talks
to no one who does not talk to them both.
The cards of invitation which arrive daily at
her hotel are neglected for the same cause ;

and the duchesses and countesses, who are
but too often obliged nowadays to depend
on professional talent as an attraction to their
suppers and soirees, despair of ever securing
the attendance of Miss Selwyn. She favours
them sometimes, but only when there is no
chance of seeing Hyacinth : and in a few
weeks the two girls have become as fast
friends as if they had never been separated
from the cradle.

It is not honos before Beta is introduced
to her sister's a?zce, and she takes a liking to
him from the first.

Lord Desborough is not handsome, strictly
speaking, but he has a good kind face, and
what is better, he has a good heart. He is
rather too fond of bringing: forward his
opinions in society and of laying down the law ;
and he has a prosy and somewhat slow mode
of deliverance, which Beta can well imagine
with a deep sigh  is unattractive to the
woman who does not love him. Still, he is

honourable and right-principled  which is
a great thing to be in the nineteenth century
and he is really attached to Hyacinth,
though he bores her to death with animadversions
on her tastes and pursuits and mode of
dress. He treats her as, and evidently considers
her to be, a trifling thoughtless child
whom he is about to rescue from a very godless
house, and train to be everything that
his own heart can desire. And Miss
Hyacinth Durant is, on the contrary, a woman
ready made : with deep-rooted ideas on her
own course of life, and a fixed determination
to abide by them. Voila tout ! Beta,
analysing the viscount's character by the exposition
of his .theories, cannot for sometime
satisfy herself as to the attraction he
holds for her. Until, one day, when he turns
a very fond though reproachful gaze upon
Hyacinth for the utterance of some unusually
giddy remark, and it suddenly flashes upon
Beta that he has a strong look of Robert

Free. Yes ! there is a decided resemblance,
although Lord Desborough is a short man
with a spare figure, and rejoices in sandy hair
and a freckled complexion. Yet what avails
the best or the worst of looks  I speak from
the feminine point of view  when a man's
heart is in the right place, and he has the
disposition to deal patiently and tenderly with
weakness and folly ?

Patience and tenderness are the two great
qualities which a woman's heart and life
require. If they could exist without love
(which is impossible), she could exist without
it also. Lord Desborough has the same
tender look in his eyes, the same patient
expression about his mouth, which moved
Beta most to appreciate the affection offered
to her by Bobby Free. Poor Bobby Free !
As the old familiar name returns to her mind,
something like tears rise to Beta's eyes.

She wonders what he is doing now, dear,
patient, tender Rob ! whether he has quite

got over his disappointment ! and if those
soft brown eyes look as fondly at some one
else as they used to do at her ! She pictures
him at Baron's Court, the pride and delight
of Sir Willoughby and Lady Free ; the
pride and delight, perhaps, of his wife and
children ! She must not dorset that it is six
years since she heard any tidings of him.
There is no saying what may not have happened
in all that length of time !

What are you looking so glum for, Beta V
exclaims Hyacinth, as the reflection of that
thought passes over her candid features ;  has
Desborough been boring you with one of his
sermons ? Really, my lord, it is too bad that
my friends should have to stand the infliction
of your lectures as well as myself! One
victim in a family is surely enough !'

Have I fatigued you with my conversation,
Miss Selwyn ? Am T inconsiderate ?' demands
his lordship, anxiously.

Not in the least, Lord Desborough,' replies

Beta. ' I have been very much
interested in the account of your work
amongst the seamen ; and if I looked grave fora
moment it was only because your manner
reminded me of a dear friend whom I have lost !'

A re you becoming sentimental, my dear V
cries Hyacinth with a kiss on her sister s
cheek. ' Well, then I will leave you together
! It would be a shame to spoil sport !'
and with a nod to her fiance she flutters away
to another part of the room.

Dear thoughtless child I' says Lord Des-borough,
as his eye follows her through the
crowd.

Yes, very dear and very thoughtless I' replies
Beta, * but not a child, my lord. Don't
fall into that error ! I believe that by kindness
and patience you may make my sister
anything you choose, but you cannot close
your eyes to the fact that she has received a
very careless training hitherto.'

She has been grossly neglected,' says Lord

Desborough, emphatically. ' Forgive my
saying so, Miss Selwyn, in your presence ;
but you know it to be the truth, and were
Hyacinth not so open and child-like in her
disposition, I should be afraid to marry a
pupil of Mrs. Durant.'

Beta remembers Mr. Gervase Clavering
and sighs.

I could forgive anything in a woman,' goes
on Lord Desborough, ' except deceit. No
amount of thoughtlessness or levity or even
open rebellion could destroy my love, because
I should always trust to its influence to bring
my wife round, eventually, to my way of
thinking ; but if I once found her out to have
been guilty of deliberate deceit, all would be
over between us. I should have no faith in
her from that moment, and without faith, I
could give her neither love nor respect. You
remind me, Miss Selwyn, that your sister is
not a child. In years I agree with you that
she is not ; but a woman's life is her love.

VOL. III. 45

She does not begin to live until she begins to
love, and Hyacinth is quite innocent in that
respect. No ! don't open your eyes at me,
Miss Selwyn  I know what you are thinking
of; but I don't mind telling you that I am
perfectly aware that she does not love me 
not yet  or at least not in that way I She
is a careless giddy child, and little thinks of
the pain she is inflicting ; but I will make her
love me, if I devote my whole life to the
purpose.'

And she ivill love you  she shall love
you,' replies Beta, as she looks, with admiration
into the little viscount's kindling face.
She is not worthy of so much devotion 
no woman is -but she must learn to value
and appreciate it.'

And she resolves anew to watch over and
guard her sister's heart from the machinations
of all those who would come between her and
the noble gentleman to whom she has plighted
her faith.

At one of these afternoon receptions Beta
comes unexpectedly upon her Aunt Janie
and Blanche Chapman. These ladies, who
have naturally heard the whole account of
their relative's return to England and her
father s house, think it is time they should
come in for a share of the eclat which
attends the young actress's presence, and
have been ' dropping in ' at Primrose Hilla
dozen times already, on the chance of finding
her there.

And now, as Mrs. Chapman espies her
niece seated by Lord Desborough's side,
and evidently regarded with the highest
estimation by that pink of noblemen, she
sidles up to her with half-closed eyes, and a
mouth twisted up into an expression of the
tenderest reproach.

Elizabeth ! my dearest girl ! Is it thus
we meet again ? Blanche and I have been
hoping and expecting to hear from you for
the last month. Is it possible that whilst

452

the memory of your sainted mother Ives, you
can forget your poor Aunt Janie V

Beta rises at her aunt's approach, and
takes her proffered hand.

No, Aunt Janie she answers in a quiet
voice, * I have not forgotten you.'

The same pride which forbade her to meet
the advances of Major Durant more than
halfway, forbids her to fall into the arms of
Mrs. Chapman now. Her father and her
step-mother may have been guilty of injustice
towards her ; but this woman with the
pretty, faded, soft-looking face and the half-closed
eyes, treated her with the most refined
cruelty.

She persuaded her not to return to
her father's protection, nor seek a reconciliation
with him, when she might have done
so, and then when she Alas tired of the role of
second mother, which she had gratuitously
assumed, she (metaphorically) turned the girl
out of doors and refused to speak to her

when she had chosen the means by which
to earn her HveHhood.

How would it have been between Aunt
Janie and herself,' thinks Beta, with a
sudden rush of contempt, ' if instead of
having gained the top of the tree, she were
still in want of her daily bread V

And the thought is in her mind as she
makes that quiet answer to Mrs. Chapman's
speech.

Oh dear ! oh dear !' wails Aunt Janie ;
 surely you are going to kiss me, Beta I 
my dear Mary's eldest daughter, and to
whom I have always felt as a second mother !
Hyacinth has never been anything to me
compared to you. I love her, of course, but
she is her father's child  not mine. But see
what a few years of separation can effect !
Here have I been panting to meet you
again, and you hardly seem glad to seeme.'


Indeed, Aunt Janie, I am glad ! and had

you called on me in Piccadilly, you may be
sure I should not have denied myself ta
you.'

Oh, my dear ! called on you in Piccadilly ;
but you are such a grand person now, I understand,
and on visiting terms with half the
aristocracy, that I am afraid poor Blanche
and I would feel sadly out of place there.
We are living quite in a small way now, you
know, out at Shepherd's Bush, and do not
expect to receive the attention that we did
during your poor uncle's lifetime. There
was a time, as you may remember, Elizabeth,
when I was able to offer the best of all I
possessed to those who had a claim upon
me ; but that time is past. What With the
depression in the money market, and the
failure of several companies in which your
good uncle left shares, life is not what it
was with us. But what are we, that we
should presume to find fault with the decrees
of Providence ! Still, such as our surroundings

are, you will come and see us, I hope,
Elizabeth.'

But Elizabeth has no such intention. She
does not forget that she left Aunt Janie's last
house with an order never to enter it again ;
and the proud little heart that has battled
against so much will not lay itself down to
be trampled on a second time.

My days are very much occupied, Aunt
Janie, and I scarcely go out anywhere, except
it is to see my sister. So you must
excuse me from visiting you at Shepherd's
Bush ; but I am generally at home in the
afternoons, if you like to call upon me.'

But you have not seen your cousin
Blanche yet  dear Blanche, who is dying
to meet you !' exclaims Mrs. Chapman as
she goes in search of her daughter to cover
her confusion.

After a while. Miss Blanche is captured,
and presents herself before Beta with a
very red, confused face, which contrasts ludicrously

with her cousin's indifferent demeanour.
But when we stand, proudly conscious
of the world's good opinion, we can afford to
be indifferent to the slights of a bvsrone
day.

Doesn't it seem wonderful !' exclaims
Miss Blanche, in her agitation  ' that you
should be here, I mean, and all the rest of
it. Mamma and I went to the ''Pompeian"
the first night you appeared, and we thought
it lovely  didn't we, mamma ? And it
seemed so funny, to think it should be you,
you know.'

Yes,' chimes in Mrs. Chapman,  although
wee had not been inside a theatre
for years  not since your poor dear uncle's
death, in fact  we were amongst the very
first to welcome you back, Elizabeth. A
poor tribute, but a sincere one. And before
that time, even I had become the possessor
of one of your photographs  taken as Juliet,
I believe  and turned out that of my own

child, in order that I might put it in a frame.
And it stands now on our drawing-room
table.'

'And who do you think we met when
we were in the shop, choosing it V interposes
Blanche. * An old friend of yours, Beta,
in fact  with a schoolgirl giggle,  ' I think
I may say, an old admirer; though I suppose
you have so many by this time, that you won't
think much of him.'

And who may that have been V says
Beta, smiling.

For the moment she is quite unconscious
that Blanche can possibly have met anybody
in whom she would feel the slightest interest.

Why, Mr. Free ! Bobby Free, as Ave
used to call him.'

Who?' cries Beta, with a face of crimson.

Bobby Free ! Don't you remember him ?
A tall lanky fellow, who used to stoop dreadfully.
We were awfully wicked in those days,
Beta, and surnamed him ' the tottering

Maypole," until mamma reproved our levity,
and told us he was not a young man to be
* sneezed at." He will be very rich some
day, I believe. He is the son of Sir Willoughby
Free of Baron's Court. Don't you
remember his te llincr us that '

Yes  yes ! I remember everything,' interrupts
Beta, with breathless haste. * But do
tell me where he is, my dear old friend
Bob ? Oh, he was so kind to me at a time
when I needed kindness ! I would give anything
to meet him brainless

my soul !' cries Blanche ; * I had
no idea you were so intimate ! But now I
remember, he did say he had seen you a short
time before you left England. But if you
are such friends, why didn't you write to
each other whilst you were away T

Oh, we are not quite on 'corresponding"
terms !' says Beta, vrith a sudden blush.

Blanche misinterprets that blush. She
thinks it means that her cousin is more

anxious to renew her acquaintance with Mr.
Free, than Mr. Free is to meet her again.
And since he has promised to call in
Shepherd's Bush, and Sir Willoughby's health
is evidently declining, Miss Chapman considers
it will be prudent to hold her tongue
respecting Bobby's present whereabouts.

Can't you tell me where he is living ?
continues Beta. ' Had he only come up
from Baron's Court for a few days ; or is he
making any stay in London ?'

Mrs. Chapman is about to reply when her
daughter pinches her arm ; and poor Aunt
Janie has learned by cruel experience to be
very submissive to the warnings conveyed by
those fierce and painful pinches.

Mr. Free didn't give us any address,'
says Blanche. * He is travelling about, I
believe ; staying with friends, perhaps. Anyway,
he is not settled, and said he had no
time to see anyone but ourselves ; but then,
we have known him from a boy.'

But when you see him again, Blanche,
will you tell him that I am in England,
at Davidson's Hotel, in Piccadilly, and I
shall be so pleased if he will call on
me?'

Oh, my dear ! he knows you are in
England, perfectly well, and your address
into the bargain ; but I believe the poor
fellow has some business on hand just now
that leaves him no leisure for afternoon
visits. At least, so I gathered when I asked
him if he had seen you.'

Botha's lip quivers a little. It is hard to
realise that Bob has grown quite indifferent
to her.

Do you know if he is married yet ?' she
inquires next.

No. But he is very much altered. I
think you would scarcely recognise him. He
is much broader, and has left off stooping ; so
that he is quite a giant in appearance. And
he wears a large moustache that covers

his mouth, and a short beard. But he is as
blind as ever.'

He said he was with some firm in
Leadenhall Street remarks Aunt Janie,
indiscreetly.

No such thing, mamma ? How silly you
are !' exclaims Blanche, in a most unfilial
tone of voice. ' He only said he had to
visit that firm when I asked him about
calling on Elizabeth ! You must forgive
him if he doesn't put in an appearance,
cousin. He was always shy, you know, and
I believe he has left town by this time, and
gone into Buckinghamshire.'

'It is of no consequence,' replies Beta,
quietly. ' If I wish to see him, I have only
to write to Baron's Court ! A letter is sure
to be forwarded to him from there.'

I hioiv he had your address !' cries
Blanche, as a parting shot, as she follows her
mother from the room.

I cannot imagine why you should have

objected to my telling your cousin Elizabeth
that Mr. Free is partner at MacKinnon's/
observes Aunt Janie, in an injured tone,
as they walk homeward.  And I really
must beg you will leave off that practice of
pinching me in company, Blanche. I cannot j
and I 'will not bear it any longer ! My poor
arm aches now from the violence with which
you treated it.'

Oh, bother your arm, mamma !' replies
her daughter, rudely.  Why will you make
such eoTesrious mistakes, then ? I must take
some means of stopping you. Didn't you
see how eager Elizabeth was to get Mr.
Free's address ? She always flirted with
him in her demure way, from the first hour
they met ; and she only wants to draw him on
and make a fool of him again. It isn't fair !
It leaves other girls no chance whatever.
And just as he has begun to re visit us
too !'

But he has never called a second time,

Blanche, though we have invited him again
and again.'

Never mind that ! He may call, and if
not, what can Elizabeth want with him? She
has plenty of admirers, I dare say. Ladies on
the stage are not (as a rule) very particular
as to who makes love to them ; and I'd bet
anything my prim-looking cousin proves to
be no exception. Anyway, / shall not help
her to get Bobby Free into her net a second
time !'

I WILL NEVER CEASE TO BE YOL'R FRIEND !'

Miss Chapman's assertion that Robert Free
knows her address, and made trivial excuses
for not calling on her, wounds Beta even
more than it was intended to do.

Her first thought, on hearing he was in
London, was to seek him out, and shake him
by the hand, and ask him frankly to assure
her that the past had lost all sting for him.
But her cousin's account has made her
change her mind. There is no need to put
such a question.

Rob has evidently got over his disappointment,
and perhaps learned to be very much

ashamed of his youthful passion for a little
actress, whom he would not dream now
of asking to be his wife.

As Beta conjectures it, her cheeks burn,
and she feels shy and awkward, and hopes
she shall never meet him again. After six
years of absence, he knows that she is close
at hand, and has not even the curiosity to
inquire if she still remembers him as a friend.

Doubtless his fathers and grandmother's
precepts have had their proper effect by this
time, and Hob is sensible enough to see how
preferable are the acres of Baron's Court to
the three-legged stool on which he once
thought he could cheerfully drudge for life,
for Beta's sake.

As the girl thinks thus, driving home to her
hotel, the tears stand in her eyes. She has
had but few real friends during her lifetime
which of us can say otherwise ?  and she
believes that Robert Free would have made
'3> faithful one. Her friends have proved like

VOL. III. 46

the majority  enemies in misfortune, and
constant only when there was anything to be
gained by constancy.

She has plenty of acquaintances now,,
when her fame is at its zenith, and she is-making
thousands of pounds yearly. But
were she to fail and be hissed off the staofe
tomorrow, Beta is sensible enough to know
where her so-called ' friends ' would be 
slinking out of the way, and round the-corners,
whenever they heard her footstep.
She believes that Bobert Free's friendship
would have been stauncher than this ; that it
would have stood the hailstorm of misfortune
as well as the sunshine of prosperity.


She realises now that he was as superior
to a man like Geoffrey Clifford, as an angel
is to a mortal creature. But she had not
the wit to appreciate his good qualities, and
perhaps it is as well that he has forgotten
her. She remembers that she refused to-leave

the stage for his sake, and wonders if
she had spent the last six years under the
shadow of his love, whether her heart would
have felt more contented and at peace than
it does at present.

Beta loves her profession. A new
character has the power still to kindle all the
excitement of old days in her breast, and
make her pant for distinction and applause.
But when we have climbed somewhat wearily
to the pinnacle of our ambition we may be
grateful, but we are apt sometimes to feel a
little tired. The conviction creeps over all
of us, even at the moment of our proudest
successes, that there is very little worth
striving: for under the sun. Here to-dav,
and gone tomorrow, and all our labour,
talents, weaknesses, and virtues buried with
us. When that supreme moment comes (as
come it must for all), there will be but one
tinct" we shall care for  a loving hand to
grasp ours to the last. And the only man

462

who dies really poor and unsuccessful, is he
who leaves this world regretted and unsustained.


Bentham cannot imagine what has come
to her young mistress after that ' at home '
at Primrose Hill. She seems so dull and
languid and unlike herself. So the good
old creature urges the girl to take more
diversion, and Beta, in order to please her,
secures tickets, some few days after, for a
morning performance at a fashionable
theatre. What a curious fact it is, that
whenever actors and actresses have a few
hours in which to enjoy themselves, they invariably
spend them in going to witness the
dramatic performances of others. When
the uninitiated would imagine they were
riding on horseback, or rowing on the river,
or lying in bed, or doing anything else to
which they are most unaccustomed, they will
find them in the stalls of a theatre, watching
the efforts of their confreres  the first to

applaud and the last to cavil of anyone
there.

Beta is no exception to this rule. She
loves to sit before the foot-lights and legitimately
enjoy herself, but on this occasion she
has no one but old Bentham as a chaperon
and companion, as Mrs. Henderson's widowhood
is too recent to permit her to appear in
public. However, this circumstance does
not detract from Beta's pleasure, as she
good-naturedly chats with her faithful old
nurse, and explains everything that she does
not understand to her.

The June sun is still in its glory, as about
five o'clock they leave the theatre, and the
crowd upon the pavement outside is very
great.

Beta's brougham is some way down the
line, and she sets off with Bentham to walk
to it. The people press her on every side.
Labourers returning from their work, Powers
with baskets of pinks and roses, dirty

boys and women and children, jostle the
smartly-dressed ladies and gentlemen who
have issued from the theatre.

A fishmonger's apprentice, pushing his way
along the pavement with a wooden tray offish,
nearly knocks Beta on the shoulder.

 Can't you see where you are going to V
cries Bentham in an angry tone, as her mistress,
in trying to avoid contact with the
tray, is nearly pushed into the arms of a
shabby-looking woman who is slouching
close by the wall of the building, as though
to avoid observation.

I beg your pardon !' says Beta courteously,
and as she speaks, the woman gives
vent to a slight exclamation. Beta raises
her head quickly  their eyes meet  in a
moment she has recognised Mattie Levison,
At first, neither speaks. Surprise and horror
chain Botha's tongue, and she thinks it
would be a further humiliation to the fallen
woman to acknowledge her before a crowd of

fashionable people, many of whom may have
known her in her palmer days. But the
next minute Mattie has glided hurriedly
away, and then Beta feels she has been
wrong. She cannot let her go thus  poor,
poor Mattie ! without one word of explanation.


Stop here, Bentham !' she says authoritatively,
as she turns and follows the footsteps
of her former friend.

Mattie  Mattie !' she exclaims in a low
earnest voice, as she comes up with her, ' I
know who you are ! Do not run away from me i
I am so anxious to befriend you if I can !'

The kind tones make the woman pause,
but as she turns her face towards the full
sunlight, Beta can hardly believe that it is
her old schoolfellow. Misery and humiliation,
rather than actual want, have made sad
inroads on the beauty of Mattie Levison.

V

The soft dark eyes and chiselled features remain,
but the peach-like complexion has been

replaced by a sallow hue : the fair round
cheeks have fallen in, and the glossy hair is
rough and untidy. Her dress, moreover, is
dowdy and shabby. No fresh lace nor
ribbons adorn her person, and she might well
pass for what Mrs. Henderson mistook her 
a beggar woman.

My poor Mattie ! What can have
brought you down to this?' cries Beta,
sympathisingly.

Hush, Beta ! you had better not speak
to me ! Do go back to your friends.'

I am not with friends ; but if I were, I
would leave them to speak to you ! Do you
think I have forgotten aU your kindnesses
to me in the bygone days ? Mattie, I am
not so ungrateful ! Let me try and repay
some of it now !'

You had not much kindness to thank me
for at the last,' replies Mattie.

The tears shine on Botha's lashes.

You did not mean it ! or if you did, I

have forgotten it by this time. Mattie, is he
with you still V

Do you mean Clifford ? Hardly so, my
dear, or you would not have met me in this
becoming costume. I have had to depend on
myself for some years past. '

Let me come home with you, Mattie.'

I have no home !'

But you must sleep under shelter.'
There is a bedroom somewhere in the
back slums of Westminster where I pass
the night ; but I cannot take you to it. It
is not a fit place for you.'

And yet you live there ! Do you think
the world has made me as conventional as
that ? Will you come back with me to my
hotel instead V

No, no !' cries Mattie, shrinking ; * I
could not do that, look at my dress.'

Then I will return with you,' says Beta,
decidedly.  Will you wait here whilst I dismiss
my servant T

Yes, if you wish it ! I suppose I ought
to refuse, but it is so strange to me now to
hear a kind voice, Beta !'

Beta hurries back to Bentham and orders
her to return home in the carriage, alone.

But what will you go for to do. Miss
Beta 1' exclaims the old woman in dismay.


Never you mind, Bentyy ! I won't get into
mischief. I have met an old friend, with
Avhom I wish to have some conversation.'

But hadn't the carriage better wait for
you, my dear V

No ! I shall return in a cab. Now, please
do as I tell you, and ask me no more
questions.' So the nurse is obliged to obey
orders, and goes home, blessing and saving
herself all the way.

 Come, Mattie,' says Beta, as she rejoins
the poor downcast creature leaning against
the wall,  let me call a cab and drive you to
your room.'

Beta, I cannot take you there ; it is so
shabby.'

I don't care what it is, I must speak to
you, and we cannot talk in the open street.
Tell me the address, there's a good girl.'

Mattie, after some hesitation, does as she
is desired, and a few minutes' drive brings
them to the spot. But, prepared as Beta
was to see a bare and shabby room, she is
shocked beyond measure at the squalid appearance
of the apartment she is ushered
into, and for a few minutes after they find
themselves alone nothing is to be heard
but the sound of her sobs  she is so completely
overcome.

Mattie, meanwhile, has seated herself on a
broken-down horsehair sofa by the window,
and appears rather sulky.

I told you not to come,' she says presently
; ' 1 am no longer fit company for you
in any way. You had much better leave me
alone to die as I live.'

I could not  could not do it exclaims
Beta earnestly. * These tears are only for
yourself, dear Mattie I When I think of
what you were in your father's house, surrounded
with luxuries, made so much of,
given you own way in everything ; and then
after that, living with your husband, though
you were not so happy, you had everything
you could require, and now to see you herein
this miserable room, I feel as if I should
never get over it

'Well, crying won't do me any good,
Beta,' replies Mattie, in a loud tone, * nor
will raking up unpleasant memories. I have
made my own bed, you see, my dear, and I
must lie on it. I have to thank your fine
friend Mr. Clifford for the ruin of my life,
and I only wish he had been dead and buried
before I ever set eyes on his hypocritical
face

A slight shiver of repugnance runs through
Beta's frame. She cannot understand any

woman mentioning the man she has professed
to love in a tone of such contempt,
even though his conduct has wounded and
disappointed her. Beta has no reason to
love the memory of Geoffrey Clifford, but she
could not speak otherwise than sadly of him.
It were far easier to her not to speak at
all.

Tell me of all that has happened to you,
my poor Mattie,' she says presently, * and let
us see if there is no way to be found out of
this cruel dilemma.'

All is soon told, Beta. It is the old
story that each woman who makes a fool of
herself has to repeat in turn. I ran away
with Geoffrey Clifford, and lived with him at
Paris and Vienna, and half a score of other
places, and thought, when I was free, that
he would marry me. But, on the contrary,
when that time arrived my gentleman told
me he had other views, and left me in the
lurch to get on as best I might by myself.'

Do you mean to say he made no provision
for joxxV exclaims Beta, with flashing
eyes. ' How cruel 1 How heartless !
I could not have believed it.'

Provision ! I should think not. I had
about five pounds in my purse when he left
me, and I have worked for my living ever
since.'

 And how long is that ago, Mattie V

About three years.'

Is Clifford on the stage still V

I don't know  I have never asked.
Someone told me a short time back that
he was in America or Australia  but what
does it matter to me '? I wouldn't touch a
farthing of his money if he were to offer it tome,
the false-hearted hound.'

That is right, Mattie,' replies Beta, sympathetically.
* But how do you live, dear V

By working the sewing-machine : I am
employed in a large shop on Lydgate Hill,
and have been for the last two years. The

manager was awfully kind. I had no character,
you know, and had had no experience, so I
couldn't get a situation anywhere. Getting
employment in London is very much like
getting into Heaven, as your parsons teach
it. The Almighty won't hear your prayers
unless you repent, and you can't repent unless
He makes you, and He won't make you unless
you pray. So the employers say they cannot
give you work unless you have had some experience,
and you can't get experience until
you have had some work. ' Logical, isn't it ?
However, I went to my present manager and
told him who I was, and my whole story ; I
found it was the best way, and he put me on
the staff at once, and I have worked for him
ever since. I don't earn more than eighteen
to twenty shillings a week, you know. It
keeps me in food and lodging  such as it is ;
but it leaves very little over for ruby velvet
hats and ostrich feathers. Do you remember
my ruby velvet hat, Beta V concludes

Mattie, with a harsh laugh ' Now, don't
turn on the waterworks again, you silly
thing. You were always a softhearted little
fool, Beta, and I considered myself the more
worldly wise of the two, but you have made
a better business of your life, after all, than I
have.'

Mattie ! I have heard of your poor
father's death ; but why don't you apply to
your brothers ? I suppose they have the
business now, haven't they V

Apply to them ! Why, Beta, I should
get driven from the doors ! They are both
married, and as proud as peacocks. Alfred's
wife is a woman of title  Lady Sarah Bothered,
and Ives in a splendid house in Princes'
Gate ; and Lionel married the daughter and
heiress of one of our richest diamond merchants.
I did write to them.'

And what answer did you receive V
Alfred sent me word that if I presumed
to go near Princes' Gate, or introduce myself

to Lady Sarah's notice, he would put me in
charge of the ponce ; and Lionel (my favourite
brother Lionel, of whom I used to be so
proud) returned me my own letter torn in
two.'

'How could they be so cruel?* gasps
Beta.

My dear child ! it is no more than I deserved.
I ought to have known it all
beforehand ; but I think, if  if  my poor
father had lived says Mattie, with a sob,
that he might still have been reconciled tome.'


'And you were not mentioned in his
will V

Oh no ! My brothers took care my
name should be erased from that.'

But they cannot know you are working
for your daily bread, and under your own
name, Mattie. They would be ashamed tolet
you continue to do so, for their own
sakes.'

VOL. III. 47

They cZo know it ; and they are not ashamed,
Beta, of anything  except me. And I
will never appeal to them again  not if I
starve to death for want of my daily bread.'

Beta looks at the pretty delicate face
turned to the sky  pretty still, in spite of
its thinness and pallor  and at the graceful
attenuated figure ; and a grand thought
comes into her mind.

Do you remember the tableaux vivants
we had in Albert Gate, Mattie V

Yes says the other languidly.

How beautiful you looked, dear ; and
how much you enjoyed them.'

Yes ! and how often I have wished since
that I had gone on the stage with you, Beta.
I should have been a happier and a richer
woman. Yes  and a more virtuous one into
the bargain, than I am now. But I remember,
though I admired your courage and
talent, I pitied you for the drudgery you
would have to undergo. Indolence was

always my great fault. I little thought then
that when you were at the top of the tree I
should be working at a sewing-machine for
twelve hours a day to earn my crust of
bread.'

Mattie, we must change all that says
Beta.

It is impossible, dear ! Don't attempt it.
You can't change me, you know, and the best
thing I can do is to remain in obscurity for
the rest of my life.'

While he flaunts about somewhere in the
midst of fashionable society !' cries Beta,
indignantly.

Ah ! that is the law of the world, Beta !
It cannot be helped, and it will never be
altered.'

But I for one will never subscribe to it,'
says stout-hearted Beta. 'You were my
kind friend in prosperity, dear Mattie, and I
will never, never cease to be your friend

now.'

472

Oh ! Beta, darling ! you are too good
for this world,' cries Mattie, breaking down ;
and then the two women fall into each other's
arms, and cry heartily.

And you will let me do the best I can for
you,' says Beta, at last, wiping her eyes ;
and you will promise not to oppose my
endeavours, Mattie?'

I will promise to follow your advice in all
things, my dear kind generous friend,' replies
the other ; and then Beta discovers it
is six o'clock, and is obliged to hurry away
to be in time for the theatre. But she
pledges herself to return to that humble
apartment before many days are over, and
leaves a streak of sunshine behind her, such
as has not illuminated it since poor Mattie
Levison sought a refuge there.

*I AM IN SUCH A SCRAPE.'

Beta was afraid to tell Mattie of the grand
idea that flashed into her mind concerning
her, for fear her scheme might fail and produce
further disappointment. But for the
rest of that day, and several days afterwards,
she ponders over it and works it out,
until it assumes feasible proportions and becomes
a plan, not only to be thought of, but
put into execution. And that it involves
somewhat of a sacrifice on her own part
renders it no less charming in the eyes of
loving-hearted Beta Durant.

Her old employer and manager, Mr.

Cheyne, of the Theatres Royal of Buton
and Byron, under whose auspices she commenced
to make her name, is naturally very
anxious to secure her appearance on his
boards when her London engagement comes
to a termination. He has hardly, however,
ventured to do more than hint at such a
thing to Beta ; for the successful actress,
who has made herself famous throughout
the United States, and is turning the heads
of half London at the present moment, is a
very different person, in Mr. Cheyne's eyes,
from the self-depreciating girl who asked him
in a transport of trembling hope and fear if
he thought it possible she could play
Juliet.

He little guesses how fresh and unchanged
her stage-life has still left Beta, nor how
an appeal to her generosity or her gratitude
would have made her yield to his wishes
without demur. She, on the other hand,
has had more than one reason for hesitating

to take any definite notice of Mr. Cheyne's
suggestion.

The proximity of Buton to Baron's Court
and Black Abbottss has made the idea of
revisiting that town distasteful to her, lest
Bobert Free and his friends should imagine
that from putting herself in their way she
desired a renewal of their intimacy. And
then she has been so beset by offers to visit
the provinces, that she has hardly thought
she would be doing herself justice to accept
the moderate terms which she knows her old
manager will give her.

But now she sits down, and without
question of salary, offers herself for a month's
engagement at the Buton Theatre as soon as
she is released from the ' Pompeian.'

I must not disguise from you, dear Mr.
Cheyne,' she writes, ' that my proposal is
not entirely a disinterested one. An old
schoolfellow of mine has been forced by
change of circumstances to earn her own

living, and I want to place her on the stage
under your care. I do not know if she has
any particular talent for the profession, but
she is very beautiful ; and if my dear old
crony, Kate Montalambert, will let her live
with her, as I used to do, and you will give
her anything her services may be worth
to you, / will st and guarantee for any further
expenses she may incur. But this must bea
gre at secret between you and me, dear Mr.
Cheyne, because my poor friend, Miss Norton,
is very proud, and would never accept any
assistance from me if she knew it was such.
If you will do this for the sake of an old
acquaintance, I will pledge myself to devote
any month after July on which you may
decide to the prosperity of the dear old
Buton Theatre; and tell Kate that I shall
expect her to be my guest during that month,
or I will never speak to her again.*

Mr. Cheyne is only too delighted to get
the promise of the 'great Miss Selwyn's'

services, on any terms ; and writes back a
cordial acquiescence by return of post. He
offers Beta one hundred pounds a week, to
appear in a round of her favourite characters :
and he will be pleased to engage her friend
Miss Norton at a commencing salary of
twenty shillings. Such is the broad margin
between a name and none.

Beta laughs to herself as she reads the
old rogue's letter. She knows that in a
large city like Buton she will be worth her
thirty to fifty pounds a night to him, yet
she does not attempt to procure higher
terms.

He is going to give Mattie another chance
to get on in this hard world, and that is all
Beta really cares for. She can trust her
poor friend's comfort to the kind heart of
Kate Montalambert, and believes that if she
proves to have the least talent for the stage,
her beautiful face will do the rest.

So she agrees with Mr. Cheyne that he

shall profess to pay Miss Norton two pounds
a week, and the extra money will come out
of her own pocket. And whilst these
arrangements are pending, she goes backward
and forward to Mattie room, and never without
leaving some token of her gracious
presence behind her, in the shape of wine, or
fruity or game ; until the poor creature's
cheeks begin once more to glow with the
pleasures of renewed hope and generous fare,
and her crushed spirit to re-assert itself
beneath the knowledge that she still has a
friend.

Meanwhile, another event occurs of a still
more distressing nature to Beta than her
re-encounter with Mattie Levison  one, too,
which she feels at first more powerless to
assuage or minister to. For it concerns
Hyacinth, who rushes into the hotel one
morning, whilst Beta is seated at breakfast,
and without preamble casts herself on her
knees with her head in her sister's lap, and

bursts into a flood of tears. Beta is infinitely
shocked and alarmed.

Hyacinth is not  like herself  a softhearted
fool, ready to melt at the first note
of distress from others ; and why she should
be kneeling there, crumpling her fresh muslin
dress without the slightest remorse, and
crying as if her heart would break, frightens
her sister beyond all telling.

My darling child !' she exclaims, tenderly ;
what can be the matter ? Is papa ill, or Mrs.
Durant, or have you quarrelled with Lord
Desborough ? Do speak to me, Cinthy !
Don't keep me in this terrible suspense.
You cannot tell how anxious and alarmed
you make me feel !'

But Cinthia only cries on, and smears her
wet face against Beta's, and kisses her
vehemently.

Cinthy, it is very unkind of you to behave
like this. You will make yourself ill. And
you are frightening me beyond measure.'

Oh, Beta ! I have got into such a terrible
scrape I I don't know what on earth I shall
do ! I wish I was dead !'

'Is that alls cries her sister, joyfully.
Oh, Cinthy ! we will get out of it together.
You cannot have fallen into any scrape that
has not its remedy.'

I don't know that, Beta. This is the
worst I have ever been in. I should not
dare tell papa or mamma, for the world. In
fact, I could not tell anybody but you, dear.
But I feel as if you will help me, and I know
you won't scold me, and so  and so  I have
come to you.'

Beta's beautiful eyes glow with the sacred
light of gratitude.

Thank God !' she says, solemnly. ' Oh !
I am so glad you came to me, my Cinthy.
Now, we are real sisters and friends, and
we will help one another, and share this
trouble between us, and bear it equally, if

we find it has to be borne. What is at the
bottom of it, daring ?  money V

For Botha's sole idea of a young lady's
scrape ' is either extravagance or a lover's
quarrel. She cannot imagine how a carefully
brought up girl can have the opportunity to
get into any other sort of trouble. Yet
Hyacinth shakes her head dolefully.

Oh no, Beta ! it isn't money !'

'Then you have been naughty enough to
say or do something to vex Lord Desborough.
I am sorry for that, Cinthy, because I think
he is such a good kind little man, and will
make you so indulgent a husband. But I am
sure I can set matters right between you, if
you will give me leave to try.'

But still Hyacinth shakes her pretty head,
with its flushed, tear-stained face and tumbled
curls.

Not Desborough  and not money !' says
Beta, wistfully.  Then, darling, I am quite
at a loss to guess what it can possibly be.'

 You won't be angry with me if I tell you,
Beta ? Promise me.'

Angry with you, dear, dear, child ! don't
think it for one minute ! Why am I to be
angry with you, my darling, whatever you
may have done ? I, who have committed so
many-foolish and wrong actions myself,
which I am ashamed to look back upon or
remember

You, Beta !' ejaculates Hyacinth, with
open eyes. ' Have you really ? Oh ! that
is a comfort to know ! You always seem so
awfully good and proper to me, that I
thought you had never done a silly or a
naughty thing in the whole course of your
life.'

What an arch hypocrite I must be,' replies
her sister, with a faint smile ; ' I only
wish I could live the last ten years over
again, Cinthy. They should show a different
record from what they do now ! But never
mind talking about me ! Tell me all your

troubles, dear, and rely on my help and my
sympathy.'

How shall I ever begin !' exclaims Hyacinth
with a blush of real shame ; ' but you
remember what I told you up in the bedroom
at Primrose Hill, Beta, the very
first day you came there.'

About Mr. Claverton ! Yes, dearest, I
remember perfectly. But you have altogether
given up his acquaintance, haven't
you, Cinthy ? You never meet him now as
you used to do V demands Beta, in an
anxious voice.

Cinthy pouts her red lips.

How can you ask me if I ever meet him
now, Beta, when you know he dined at our
house only last week V

You know what I mean, dearest ! You
have not made any secret appointments with
Mr. Claverton since that day when we
talked of it together, and you promised me
to give up his acquaintance altogether.*

 Beta ! it is much easier to promise than
to perform. What is a girl to do when a
man is always bothering her, and writing to
her, and saying dangerous things in public,
that anyone may overhear and catch the
meaning of.'

*Am I to understand then, Hyacinth,
that you have broken your promise, and met
Mr. Claverfcon again without the knowledge
of your father or Mrs. Durant.'

Beta, dear ! don't be cross, but I really
couldn't help it. I had no alternative, he
threatened me so.'

Threatened you ! What, Mr. Claver-ton
? What right can he have to threaten
you ? What hold has he over you V

Oh, Beta ! you forget the letters I have
written to him !' exclaims Hyacinth, recommencing
her sobs.

Don't cry, child, if you can help it. I
want to understand this business thoroughly.
Tell me everything, Cinthia, the very hurst,

for heaven s sake ! Try to think I am your
mother, daring, and let me hear everything
that you have said and done.'

Oh, Beta ! I am sure you will be angry,
but I couldn't help it ! I told you we had
corresponded frequently during the last year
through the Vigo Street post-office. Well,
I received a letter from him the day before
yesterday, to say he had something of the
greatest importance to tell me, and begging
me to meet him the next morning at the old
place.'

The scoundrel,' says Beta, with closed
teeth, ' to take such advantage of a young
girl's trust ! where is the " old place,"
Cinthia V

I dare not tell you !'

You must tell me ! I ivill know it T cries
the elder girl, fiercely. But the next moment
she is cooing over her weeping sister like a
turtle-dove. ' Do tell me, my sweet one !

VOL. III. 48

Tell your own Beta, and I will keep your
secret from all the world.'

 I went to his chambers  at least he took
me there says Hyacinth with downcast
eyes.

What f exclaims Beta, loudly.

In all her experience she has never heard
of such a thing before ; that a young lady
should visit a bachelors rooms without a
chaperon, and she feels as if she would like
to kill the man who has dared to entice her
sister into such an indiscretion.

They are beautiful rooms,' continues
Hyacinth, hurriedly, ' and many ladies visit
them. He has told me so. There is nothing
wrong in it, Beta.'

It is very unusual,' replies her sister,
gravely ; ' but go on, dear Cinthy, and I will
not interrupt you again.'

When we got there, Gervase began reproaching
me for neglect and unkindness,
and asked me to contradict the report that I

am going to marry Lord Desborough. And
you know, Beta, it had just been settled
between papa and Desborough that the
marriage is to take place the end of the
season, and mamma and I had been talking
of my dresses and all that ; and so I thought
it would be an excellent opportunity to tell
Mr. Claverton that it was really true ; but 
but '

Well, you did quite right,' says Beta,
and only what you promised me you would
do, Cinthia ; but I wish you had Written
it, instead of meeting that horrid man
again.'

Oh, but it was of no use !' exclaims
Hyacinth, breaking down again as the
difficulty of her situation is recalled to her
mind. * It is all over, Beta. I shall never
marry Desborough. Gervase is determined
I shan't do it, nor anybody, in fact, but
himself And I don't want to marry him I
I don't care for him any more : he was so

482

unkind to me yesterday, and he hasn't got
any money, and I wish that I was dead
concludes the girl, irrelevantly.

Hyacinth dear ! you must try and be
more coherent. Mr. Claverton was very
angry when you told him you were engaged
to marry Lord Desborough. I am not surprised
at that, and if he reproached you for
your deception, it is part of the penalty of
wrong doing, and you must bear it patiently
on that account.'

But the letters, Beta ! He has got all
my letters, and he says if I do not break off
my engagement with Desborough, that he
will send them to him. So what am I todo
? Oh I they are aivful letters  it's of no
use disguising the truth. I think I must
have been mad when I wrote them, but he
promised to tear them up. But he hasn't ;
and he says if I had written them in Scotland,
they would have carried my condemnation
with them, and the law would have

pronounced me to be his wife, whether I
liked it or no.'

Beta has grown very pale during this
narrative, but her face has settled into a look
of quiet determination.

But, fortunately for you, Cinthia, the
letters were not written in Scotland, and no
power on earth can make you this bad man's
wife against your will. He must be a bad
worthless man  first to tempt you to a dishonourable
action, and then to threaten you
with exposure if you do not carry it out.'

 Yes ! he is bad,' says Cinthy, eagerly,
for he has told me assail and again he had
destroyed my letters, and I've burned all his,
so there is no proof against him in return.
Bub he swore that if I did not write to him
by to-night's post, to say I had broken off
my engagement with Lord Desborough, he
should send him the packet of letters the
first thing tomorrow morning. And if he
does, we shall never be married, Beta ! I

know Lord Desborough would never forgive
me, for he has said aoain and aoain that the
only thing he would never overlook in his
future wife, is deception

she has said the same to me replies
Beta, ' and I admire him for it.'

'But you don't know how dreadful those
letters are,' continues Cinthia. ' I believe if
he saw one of them, it would be all over
between us. You see I thought I was so
much in love with Gervase at first, and
afterwards I didn't like to say I wasn't, and
so I wrote all sorts of things about when
we should be married, and so forth ; and it is
most shabby of him to have kept the letters,
and refused to give them up. And now what
am I to do, Beta ! Oh I do  do help me
out of this awful scrape, and I will love you
the best of all the world to my very life's end.'

Beta returns her sister's kisses warmly,
but she looks very grave.

'It is a very, very serious scrape, Cinthia,

that you have got into, and though I will do
my best to help you, I cannot be sure of success.
But before I move in the matter I
must be assured of two things ! First, do
you intend to marry Lord Desborough ? and
before you do so, will you make a clean breast
to him of the whole affair V

Bat, Beta, he won't marry me if I do 
I know he won't.'

I believe he will, and love you all the
more for your courage and frankness. Anyway,
I cannot assist you upon any other
terms. I will not lend myself to a second
deceit, Cinthia.'

You don't know Desborough !' says the
younger girl, shaking her head.

Then I don't want to know him ! If he
san be hard and ungenerous in a case like
this, I would rather see you dead than
married to him. Come, darling ! think of
what mother would have advised you to do,
and make up your mind !'

I will trust it all to you,' whispers
Cinthy.

'Then the first thing you must do, is to
sit down and write a letter to Mr. Claverton,
making an appointment with him at his
chambers for tomorrow morning.'

Beta ! are you in earnest V

I am !'

When you said I was so wrong to go
there yesterday  and you wish me to go
aofain !'

I don't intend you should go again, but it
is quite necessary you should make the appointment
in your own name, or Mr. Claverton
will not keep it. And I will go to his rooms,
Cinthia  and demand the restoration of your
letters.'

Beta ! if anybody should meet you
coming or going ! Won't it be worse for you
than for me, because your face is so well
known in London V

Beta bites her lip, but remains resolute.

 Thank you dear little sister, for thinking
of my good name before your own ! I will
disguise myself as best I can, Cinthia, but it
is imperative I should apply for these letters
in person. I think when Mr. Claverton finds
that your sister is Elizabeth Selwyn, he will
not consider it worth his while to court so
public an exposure as I could make of his
infamous behaviour.'

He knows you are my sister and I don't
think he wants to meet you,' says Hyacinth,
for I have asked him so often to come to
our house in the afternoons, and he never
has.'

Whether he wishes to meet me or not, he
will have to do it,' replies Beta, ' and we
shall not part until we have come to an explanation
with each other. Courage, my
dearest sister. You have been very foolish
and imprudent, but this will I trust be the
last scrape you will ever get into, for Des-borough's
sake. You do love Lord Des-borough,

don't you, Hyacinth, for all your
giddy way of talking V

I like hin  a little !' admits the girl ;
and I think if I were well out of this
business, and he forgave me for it, I should
like him very much.'

You shall get out of it, and he shall forgive
you r exclaims Beta, decidedly. ' Keep
up your heart, Cinthy. This fellow
Claverton has no real power over you. He
is simply making a cowardly attempt to
coerce you to his own will. But he will talk
very differently when he sees me. So now
sit down, and write a letter to him, simply
saying you will be at his rooms tomorrow
morning at eleven o'clock.'

Oh, Beta ! how very, very glad I am I
came to you I I had been crying half the
night, not knowing what on earth to do, and
then this happy inspiration came into my
head. And you really think you will get

the letters V says Hyacinth, as she delivers
her envelope to Beta's care.

 Dearest child replies her sister, ' be
assured I will not leave his presence without
them. To hoar you say what you have done
just now is the greatest happiness my life
has known, and I would do twice as much as
this, in return for it.'

WHAT REWARD SHALL I RECEIVE V

Hyacinth Durant returns home after this
interview in the highest spirits, and the fullest
trust in her sister's power to unravel the
tangled web she has woven for herself. She
is so careless and thoughtless bv nature, and
the training of the present day has kept her
so unprincipled, that she feels no regret
whatever for the deception she has practised,
nor the imprudence of which she has been
guilty. The risk she runs is the only thing
that affects her ; and she believes that,
thanks to her sister's promise, that danger is
already past.

How little do parents, who confide their
daughters during the most pliant years of
their existence to the tainted atmosphere of
a  ladies' boarding-school,' realise the fact
that no after fault-finding; nor coercion will
eradicate the seeds of folly which are sown
by girls in one another's minds.

Mothers, as a rule, send their daughters
from their sides at the very time when they
need their supervision most, and the pert
idle little girl of twelve, who is banished
from home, perhaps, because she will not
learn her lessons with her governess, is returned
upon their hands at seventeen or
eighteen  an awkward, unformed hawk, with
as little useful knowledge as she has manners 
a creature who is no companion in solitude,
and something to be ashamed of in society,
but who knows as much of this world's evil
as her mother, and thinks of it a great deal
more. Is there anything on earth so little
interesting as a giggling whispering school-miss

? The female colleges, which have
made such advanced strides in public favour
during the last few years, are the only means
by which a girl can be, at one and the
same time, thoroughly educated and modestly
reared  where she receives the training of a
man by day, and returns to the bosom of her
mother at night. May they flourish and increase,
until they have exterminated every
ladies school ' from the land !

Hyacinth Durant has been dragged up
after the old fashion  sometimes taken
abroad by her step-mother, and confided to
the care of a French maid, and sometimes left
at home at the first boarding-school that
happened to be convenient. So that she has
become a woman half educated, wholly untrained,
with no care for anyone but herself,
and no fear except the fear of being found
out. It had been better for her to be cast
on the world like her elder sister, and left
to the impulses of her own nature.

If Hyacinth returns to Primrose Hill rejoicing,
poor Betlia, left behind in Piccadilly,
feels very differently. She does not regret
the task she has undertaken ; on the contrary,
when she thinks of her sister's story, and the
unwarrantable manner in which Mr. Claverton
has taken advantage of her youth and imprudence,
Beta knits her brow, and
clenches her teeth, and feels like a tigress
about to be robbed of her young. But she
cannot disguise from herself that she has
promised to embark on a very questionable
undertaking. To be pledged to go alone to
the chambers of a stranger, and there accuse
him of villany and cowardice, is sufficient
to make the courage of even a very strong-minded
young woman quail.

Once or twice Beta contemplates the
advisability of taking Bentham with her as a
witness and protector, but on second thoughts
she dismisses the notion as unsound. There
must be no witness but herself to the proofs

of the folly of the future Lady Desborough ;
and in deciding thus, Beta thinks as much
of the little viscount's feelings, as she does of
those of her sister. Hyacinth's folly does not
deserve a shield, but Lord Desborough's
affection for and trust in her is worthy of
the utmost consideration. So for his sake,
if not for Cinthy's, our heroine determines to
carry out her unpleasant duty by herself.
She does not sleep well, though, on the night
preceding it. Though she is tired with a
long performance, she tosses and tumbles
through the dark hours, and when old
Bentham comes to call her in the morning,
she exclaims at the pale, anxious face that
meets her gaze :

Lord-mercy ! Miss Beta, whatever have
you been a-doing to yourself? Why, you're
as white as a lily, and your eyes look as if
you hadn't had a wink of sleep all night.'

 I haven't slept much, nurse, and that's
the fact.'

'Well, you just lie abed, my dearie, and
I'll bring your breakfast up here. '

Not a bit of it !' cries Beta, springing
from her couch. 'Why, it's half-past nine
already, and I have an appointment at
eleven !'

At eleven ! Whatever should take you
out so early, Miss Beta ? It's a most unreasonable
hour, my dear, considering what
you go through at night.'

Never mind, nurse ; unreasonable or not,
I must keep my appointment. So please plait
up my hair, and don't talk to me !'

She wants to think over the coming
interview, and decide what she shall say to
Mr. Claverton, but she cannot make up her
mind, and rises from her toilet as uncertain
as before.

When she finally quits the hotel, which to
Bentham's dismay she insists upon doing on
foot, she is attired in a black dress and
bonnet, a large cloak which envelopes her

VOL. III. 49

whole person and a thick veil, and flatters
herself that she is unrecognisable.

Unfortunately, however, the mere fact of
a lady veiling her charms in London is
sufficient to excite the curiosity of the crowd
concerning them, and the veriest hag may
create a temporary excitement by shrouding
her features from the public gaze.

I recommend the plan to such of my female
readers as cannot get up a sensation by displaying
them.

Beta Durant, however, is quite satisfied
with the security of her disguise, and has her
mind, indeed, too much occupied by more
serious matters to permit her to concentrate
much attention on her own appearance.

The distance between Piccadilly and the
chambers of Mr. Claverton is so small that
she thinks nothing of the walk, and is glad
of the opportunity it gives her for reflection.
But when she arrives at the given address,
her courage nearly deserts her.

The hall-door is open ; yet she does not
know whether to stand within its shelter,
and thus be seen, as it were familiar with
the premises, by any passer-by, or on the
door-step, where she will form a more noticeable
object, but may be thought to have
mistaken the number.

She looks up the street and down the
street which faces the river. There is really
no one in view except a few ragamuffins
shying stones over the embankment.

In another moment (thinks Beta) someone
may appear, and it will be too late to
enter without observation.

She examines her watch : it is ten minutes
past the hour. So, with a face pale as
ashes beneath her veil, she hurriedly mounts
the steps, and rings the bell above the
name of The Honourable Gervase Cheveron.


A man-servant appears, who is evidently
prepared for her coming, for she has scarcely

492

stammered out an inquiry for his master,
before he opens a door on the ground-floor
and ushers her into a private apartment,
which is half dining-room and half library,
and bears every evidence of having been
furnished by a man of taste.

But Beta is too agitated to examine
anything about her. The engravings, and
bronzes, and specimens of china, which are
scattered over the room, swim before her
gaze, and the moments seem hours, until a
door communicating with an inner apartment
turns on its hinges, and a gentleman enveloped
in the niost artistic of dressing-gowns
enters the room.

London chambers are proverbially dark,
even in the summer season, and Beta is
standing in the shade of the window-curtain,
so that Mr. Gervase Claverton mistakes herat
first for his expected visitor.

My darling child,' he says familiarly, * I
guess the reason of the honour you do me,

and it is really too good of you to bring me
the news yourself 1'

But the black-robed figure on the hearth-rug
does not advance to meet him.

Mr. Claverton/ she replies in a low voice,
and with her head still down, ' I am not
Hyacinth Durant.'

The gentleman is taken completely aback.

Then who the devil  I beg your pardon
who on earth are you V

I am her sister the actress, Elizabeth
Selwyn !' replies Beta, raising her veil and
her eyes at the same moment.

But as she encounters the face of Mr.
Gervase Claverton, she feels as if she had
been struck with a sudden blow.

Every drop of blood in her body seems to
change place. It rushes like a boiling torrent
to her head and eyes, and then recedes
slowly, and settles like liquid ice about her
heart.

She wants to speak, but she cannot

articulate the words. Her tongue seems to
have swelled, and her palate to have become
h arch and dry.

So all she can do is to stare at him hard
and fixedly  and utter a sound that is half a
cry of horror and half a groan. For the
man before her  the Honourable Gervase
Claverton  is Geoffrey Clifford the actor,
the betrayer of poor Mattie Levison : her
sister's lover and her own I

And Beta feels humbled and ashamed 
more than could be put down in words  to
remember that it should be so !

Mr. Claverton is naturally beforehand
with her in the task of recognition. Directly
Beta mentioned her name, he guessed what
was before him, and nerved himself for the
ordeal. And the first card he plays is to
pretend that all is right between them, and
he has done nothing worthy of condemnation.


My dear Miss Selwyn !' he exclaims airily.

-as he comes forward with an outstretched
hand.  Is it possible I see you again ? How
delighted, how charmed I am ! I should
have intruded myself upon your notice long
ago, to congratulate you on your extraordinary
success, had I imagined you preserved
the least remembrance of the happy
time we spent at the old Marlborough
together.'

But Beta shrinks backward from his
proffered hand as though it had been a snake
with power to sting her.

And so 7J0U are Gervase Claverton,' she
says slowly, but with marvellous distinctness;
you are the man who has been making love
to my sister. Hyacinth Durant, and persuading
her to meet you, alone and without the
knowledge of her father and mother !'

The tone of contempt in which she speaks
the words is too much even for the equanimity
of Mr. Claverton, and he visibly changes
colour, as he replies :

'And why not, my dear Miss Selwyn
When a young and charming lady Hke Miss
Hyacinth Durant is condescending enough
to show favour to an undeserving object Hke
myself, would you have me the one to refuse
to second her amiable intentions T

And you knew she was my sister !' says
Beta, bitterly.

Gervase Claverton is forced to have
recourse to playing with a paper-knife before
he answers her. He is too great a coward
to look this girl full in her honest eyes and
tell a lie.

 I did so  ctfteriuards  not at first he
murmurs. ' If you remember, I never knew
you under any name but that of Selwyn.
But had it been otherwise, would it have
made any difference, Beta? Though you
may not believe it, I received my death-blow
one night in old Henderson's little parlour,
and it has been of small consequence to me
since who came across my path, so long as

they were willing to afford me such mild
amusement as may be extracted from the
flattery of silly women

 It was for this honourable purpose then,
I presume,' cries Beta, That you persuaded
my unfortunate friend Mattie Levison to
leave her husband's protection, and then
deserted her to work for her living, or die
of starvation  it little signified to you
which.'

Who told you that ?' he demands eagerly.
I have heard it from Mattie's own lips.'

Is she in town, then ? Have you her
address V

 I decline to answer your questions,
Mr. Claverton, and under any circumstances
I should refuse to tell you where she is. It
is enough for you to know that she hates and
despises you, as thoroughly as you deserve,
for your cowardly and inhuman conduct towards
her.'

Miss Selwyn ! you had better be cautious.

These are dangerous terms to use to a
man.'

 If you killed me for them I would still
tell you what I think. And more than that,
Mr. Claverton ! I have come here, to-day,
for the sole purpose of receiving back my
sister's letters from your hands  the letters
she has been silly enough to write to you ;
and I shall not leave the house until I have
them !'

And supposing  as a man of honour  I
refuse to deliver up a young lady's correspondence
with myself; what then, Miss Selwyn
V he demands, with affected nonchalance.


'What then?' repeats Beta.  Why,
then I go straight from these rooms into
the presence of her affianced husband. Lord
Desborough, and tell him how you have
trifled with his future wife.'

*I think that is hardly likely,' sneers
Claverton.

Is it not ? You do not know me  nor
Hyacinth, nor Lord Desborough, to say so !
My sister has promised to have no further
secrets from her Chance, and has authorised
me to act entirely on her behalf. The only
difference will be this : If you will deliver
those letters over to me, now  my sister
says you have thirty-three in your possession
I will burn them before your eyes. If you
refuse to do so, you will find yourself forced
to give them up to my father, Major Durant ;
and he and Lord Desborough will read their
contents, and learn the full extent of your
dishonourable conduct with respect to my
sister. Consider which will be best for yourself
I know you are too selfish to think
either of her, or of me.'

You speak without knowledge, Beta.
I would do a great deal more than that, for
one kind word or look from you.'

You will be forced to do it without
either, Mr. Claverton.'

Indeed ! It is a strange thing to me to
hear anything like a threat from your hips.
What a fool I was, ever to think you cared
for me I'

There is nothing rouses a woman's spirit so
quickly as to have a doubt expressed on the
subject of her affection, by the man for whom
she would have given up the world.

Her passion for him may have burned itself
out ; but she demands that he shall respect
the ashes. And Beta, in common with
most of her sex, cannot resist the temptation
of letting Gervase Claverton know what he
has lost.

I did care for you !' she exclaims bitterly.
I loved you as I had never loved any man
in my life before  as I have never loved any
man since. But my love for you is dead and
buried long ago. It could not live, and weep,
and pray for a dishonoured name, and you
trailed yours in the dirt when you persuaded
that unhappy woman to sacrifice herself for

you. And could you not be content with
the ruin of one life, Geoffrey Clifford ? Was
it not sufficient to devastate one home, that
you should attempt to drag a second victim
through the same course of misery and
crime V

No  no, Beta ! for Heaven's sake,
believe me, I never had any worse design
with regard to your sister, than to wile
away the hours of a life that hangs but too
heavily on my hands. The same feeling induced
me to carry on this aimless flirtation
with Hyacinth, that prompted me to change
my name and go upon the stage  a ceaseless
craving for excitement and sensation, which
I find impracticable in the humdrum routine
of everyday existence.'

And to this craving you would sacrifice the
good name and principle of a young girl like
my sister  even her virtue, I suppose, if opportunity
had favoured your wickedness V

You are too hard upon me, Beta 1'

If you wish me to think so, give me back
her letters, and promise me you will never try
to cross her path again.'

And what will you give me in return V

Let me have the letters, and I will tell you.*

Mr. Gervase Claverton has been considering
the advisability of this step for some
minutes previously. He remembers Beta
Selwyn s determination of old, and feels that
she will keep her word. On the whole, therefore,
he has decided it will be preferable to
fall into her hands than into those of her
father.

Remember ! I shall expect a reward,' he
says, as he unlocks a desk and places a packet
of letters upon the table.

Beta glances over, and counts them hurriedly.
They are all there  thirty-three in
number  and they have undoubtedly been
written by Hyacinth.

Give me something to burn them with
she says, with feverish haste. He lights a

match, and she kneels down before the empty-fireplace
and kindles one sheet after another,
and watches them consume with eager eyes,
until nothing remains upon the hearth but a
heap of calcined ashes.

Then she rises to her feet with a deep sigh
of relief, and turns towards the door.

Stop  stop !' cries Gervase Claverton,
eagerly. *What are you going to give mein
exchange for this ?'

He has been watching her as she made a
funeral pile of the proofs of her sister's folly ;
noting: the graceful movements of her hands,
and gazing at the pure and chastened beauty
of her features, until all his old passion has
revived in double force and poured back upon
his heart in an overwhelming torrent. To
think that this beautiful creature might
have been his wife  that this genius whom
the world has crowned, has confessed with
her own lips how much she loved him 1 And
then to remember he has lost her  lost her,

for the sake of Mattie Levison, and Hyacinth
Durant, and half a score of others who are
not fit to tie her shoestrings. The thought is
madness.

 Stay, Beta !' he exclaims. ' Do not leave
me without a word. Tell me what reward I
shall receive for my obedience.'

Then she turns upon the threshold and
confronts him with eyes that are very mournful,
very tender, but very resolute. It is so
hard for a woman, at any time, to bid farewell
to what she has loved, even though it be buta
festering corpse.

 Your compliance, Mr. Claverton/ she says,
shall be rewarded by my forbearance. From
this moment I will spare you the sight of a
woman who is still the friend of Mattie Le-vision,
and can never look at you in any other
light than that of her destroyer.'

So she passes swiftly from his presence,
and gains the street, agitated, but triumphant.
She can breathe again now ; she has accomplished

her task, and Hyacinth and Des-borough
shall be made happy with the story
of her success. But her cheeks are flaming
with excitement  her eyes seem misty  the
fresh air from the river blows on her heated
face and makes her feel confused. She stands
on the doorstep for a moment with her veil
raised, looking up the street and down the
street, and wondering which way she shall
take to the Strand, when a footstep sounds
upon the pavement behind her, and a gentleman
leaving the next house looks at her in
passing. Beta meets his gaze with a vivid
blush, and then springs towards him, exclaiming
:

Bob ! Bob ! don't you know me ? Oh,
I am so pleased to see you !'

VOL. III. oO

won't you '' TRY " TO LOVE ME V

For the moment she forgets everything, excepting
that her old friend Eob stands before
her ao'ain. She foro-sets that she has been
three months in London and he has not considered
it worth his while to ascertain if his
name is remembered by her ; that he has
even discussed her proximity with Blanche
Chapman, and made some paltry excuse for
not calling to renew their acquaintance. If
she had had time to prepare herself for the
meeting, these things would have weighed in
the balance against Mr. Robert Free, and
Beta would probably have been cold and

reserved, and not her true self with hint
But coming so suddenly and unexpectedly
upon one another, leaves neither of them the
opportunity for acting, and their mutual
pleasure is genuine. As her voice falls on
Kob's ears, the colour rushes to* his face, and
his features glow with excitement.

Beta !' he exclaims in return, as their
hands meet in a ready clasp, ' who would
have dreamt of meeting you here V

Then she recalls inhere she is, and blushes
still more deeply.

 Why have you never come to see me ?
she says reproachfully.

Because  because ' he stammers.

 Because you have forgotten all about me,
I suppose,' say Beta, with a faint laugh.

Not so r he answers.  How could I,
when all London is ringing with your name !
Bather think that my modesty precluded my
intruding the remembrance of so very obscure
an individual as myself on your busy career,'

502

Has Rob grown sarcastic ? Beta, glancing
at him shyly from under her veil, perceives
that he has at least grown much better
looking than he promised as a boy  that his
figure is broad and stalwart, and his bushy
beard and moustaches add dignity to his appearance.
But the brown short-sighted eyes
are as gentle and tender in their expression
as ever, and as she meets their gaze, she
shrinks before it.

But what are you doing here V demands
Mr. Free, presently.  Where are you going?
You are the last person I should have expected
to meet in this part of town 1 Surely ,
I did not see you leave No. 1 1 ?'

Beta feels the imputation conveyed by
his earnest inquiries, and tries to brave
it out.

'Yes ! you did see me leave No. 11,' she
answers briskly. ' I had some business to
transact there which no one could do forme.'


I hope that business was not with Mr.
Gervase Claverton/ says Rob, in a low
voice.

I don't know what right you have to
question me, Mr. Free, but I am not ashamed
of what I have been doing. My appointment
was with Mr. Claverton. What of
that ? Is he not a gentleman V

I suppose so, in the eyes of the world !'
he answers sadly ; * but I also know that he is
the man who used to act with you under the
name of Clifford, and who ran away with
your pretty friend Mrs. Levison.'

Beta feels she has fallen into a trap.

Perhaps I had business with him that
concerned her !' she says. * You might give
me the credit for a good action, instead of a
bad one, Kob !'

 I think nothing of you, Beta, but what
is good ! Only, customs may be different in
America from what they are in England.
And here it is not considered etiquette for a

lady to visit a gentleman in his bachelor
chambers !*

Oh, I am not a " lady," remember !'
cries Bet ha, sharply : ' I am only a common
actress according to your grandmothers
definition

Did she define you so ? I never heard
her. Anyway, you will absolve me from
having seconded the motion. But don't let
us quarrel, Beta, after a separation of so
many years !'

I am sure I don't wish to do so,' replies
the girl with a sob in her throat. ' I think
it was you that began it. Bob ! But tell me
all about yourself ! How are Sir Willoughby
and Lady Free ? And have you settled
down into a regular country gentleman by
this time V

He takes no notice of the last part, of her
remark,

My father has been ailing for several
months, Beta ; and my grandmother, as you

may suppose, is a very old woman now  past
seventy-five ! I do not think that Baron's
Court will know either of them for many
more years !'

How sad for you ! And you  you are
not married yet, I believe !' says Beta, with
a wistful glance.

No, not yet !' he answers.

There is a pause between them after that,
and then Beta re-commences.

Have you heard that I am on visiting
terms again with my family  in fact quite
V enfant gate du maison. Amusing, is it not,
Rob ? Six years ago I was the vilest of the
vile, whose name my only sister was forbidden
to mention. To-day, I am the great attraction
at all their parties, and Mrs. Durant will
not send out her cards of invitation until she
has ascertained if I shall be disengaged, or
not. And all the difference in me is, that I
am at the top of the " accursed " tree instead
of at the bottom.'

Is that all the difference?' asks Rob,
earnestly.

Of course it is. What else do you
imagine V

I wish I could think so I That during
all these years you have kept the same
fresh heart, as you have done the same
face, which you took away with you to
America.'

The conversation becomes embarrassing.

Have I kept the same face V repeats Beta,
laughing.  I flattered myself I was so much
improved. Ditto, my disposition. But,
Bob, Mrs. Durant thinks of neither of these
things. She only recognises the fact that I
am successful.'

The most powerful word in the English
Dictionary,' says Kob.

The most hateful word,' replies Beta.
'-What does 'success" mean, except envy,
malice, detraction, and the loss of all your
dearest friends V

Is that a necessary consequence V asks
her companion.

It is the usual one ! Flatterers step in to
divide you, and offer you the accomplishment
of their own selfish ends in exchange
for honest companionship and disinterested
love.'

You have already found out, then, that
all is not gold that glitters," Beta.'

I knew that from the first, Rob ! But
have you heard of the brilliant marriage my
sister, Hyacinth, is about to make, with
Viscount Desborough !'

Yes ! I heard it from Miss Chapman. I
must congratulate you.'

Keep your congratulations for Hyacinth !
By the way, you seem very intimate with
my cousin Blanche, Mr. Free I I think
you must have some intentions in that quarter.
Is it so V

Oh ! decidedly,' replies Rob in his quiet
matter-of-fact way. ' I have called at their

house exactly once, during the last four
years

 But one may make great progress even
in ?!, single visit. At least, I should imagine
so, from Blanche's manner of speaking.
Nothing would induce her to give me your
town address.'

You asked for my address, then V he returned
eagerly.

Oh no !' says Beta, hurriedly ; ' at least,
it was only mentioned in passing, and I was
amused at her reticence. I was hardly
likely to have made use of her information.'


Hardly,' echoes Bob with a sigh.

But you will come and see me now, Bob,
will you not V

She has given him her address, and they
have been walking quietly towards Piccadilly
during the course of their conversation.


As Beta puts the last question, and raises

her eyes to his, they are skirting the Green
Park, and have arrived nearly opposite the
hotel.

You will come in and rest yourself fora
little while she urges ; ' I have so much to
ask you about the Chapman, and the people
down at Black Abbots

But Mr. Free does not seem to share her
enthusiasm. He hangs his head, and looks
foolish.

I think not, Beta ! Thank you all the
same. I have very little time to call my
own, and must hurry back to my friends.
Besides, I  I was always rather a rough
plain-spoken sort of fellow, you know, and
I don't think I should be good company
for Mr. Gervase Claverton and others of
your friends.'

He is not my friend !' cries Beta, indignantly.


But Bobert Free takes no notice of her
denial.

 Good-bye !' he says, as they reach the
door of the hotel, and stand for a moment
on the steps together ; * I hardly know
whether I am glad or sorry to have met you
this morning, Beta ! We are very, very old
friends, are we not ? and you won't be
offended if I speak to you like a brother.
Be very careful what you do, or whom you
know in London. It is a big, ungrateful,
censorious city ; and you are too much the
cynosure of all its eyes to be able to throw
dust in them ! God bless you ! God bless you !'

And wringing her hand with a violence
that gives her pain, Robert Free slouches
his hat over his eyes, and walks rapidly back
the same way they have come, leaving Beta
standing on the doorstep in a state of the
profoundest amazement.

This is quite a new phase of treatment to
the young and beautiful actress, who has
been adored by half her male acquaintances
for the last six years.

Bobby Free, who used to worship her
shoe-string, has actually not only declined
to visit her, but presumed to take her to
task for not guarding her reputation with
sufficient care !

As Beta remembers, with kindling
cheeks, how, and where, he met her that
morning, and the lame explanation she was
alone enabled to give him, she acknowledges
there may be some justification for the latter
piece of officiousness. But, if he thinks she
is in such peril of her good name, why
should he refuse the opportunity of lecturing
her a little more upon the subject ?

The excuse he made was as invalid as-the
former one to Miss Chapman. He had
very little time, and he must return to his-friends.


Rubbish ! As Beta thinks that her old
lover has slighted her advances to him, she
grows crimson with shame and annoyance,
and taps her foot impatiently upon the floor.

Suddenly, she believes she has guessed the
reason of Mr. Free's apparent unwillingness
to renew their acquaintance.

He is not married, but doubtless he is
engaged, and he does not wish, nor intend,
his future wife to be on visiting terms with
an actress.

The good young man has come round at
last to his papa's and his grand mamma's way
of thinking, and sees his former base infatuation
in its proper light. She has all London
at her feet, but good Mr. Robert Free considers
her beneath his notice.

He is kind to her when they meet, for old
acquaintance' sake ; but they met quite by
accident, although she has been on the
Pompeian ' boards for three months, and
even then he dared to refuse her cordial
invitation to her face.

Very well, Mr. Free ! very well !' she
thinks ; * if I chose to put my strength
against yours, wee should soon see which

would first tire of that sort of game ! Why I
I could bring you to my footstool in a
week !'

And here the foot works still more
violently, keeping time to Beta's rising
passion.

 To be slighted !' she keeps on saying to
herself, ' by a creature like that, whom I
have known from a boy; and who was so
absurdly devoted to me, that he would have
drunk prussic acid if 1 had told him to do
so. Why, he was nearly crazy about me at
that period. How often he used to ask me
to marry him, and when we broke off our
enofasrement '

But here, the circumstances which led to
that breaking off, and part of which, at least,
must have reached the ears of Bobert Free,
recur to Beta's mind, and her mood changes
as suddenly as it arose.

Of course,' she argues, * he has every
right to despise me. What can I be thinking

of? It is most unlikely he has not
heard some stories about Geoffrey Clifford
and myself, particularly as I fell ill, and
went to America directly after his elopement
with poor Mattie. And then to-day,
he meets me on the very threshold of his
house, and I am fool enough to brave out
the fact that I went there. Oh, what an
idiot I am ! Why did I ever offer to
interfere in other people's affairs ? I am
always doing something stupid, or wrong !
And Kob thinks I am friendly with Mr.
Clifford still, of course he does ; and despises
me for a bad unprincipled girl. And
oh  oh  oh ! How I wish to heaven, I had
never met him !

And so the stubborn, haughty mood
resolves itself into a penitential flood of
tears, during which Beta makes a thousand
resolutions to write to Rob, and explain the
whole matter to him. But when she is able
to reason calmly with herself, she sees this

is impossible, not only for Hyacinth's sake,
but her own.

A second refusal would be too galling
to her pride and her friendship. So Beta
dries her eyes, and determines that things
must remain as they are. She has a
pleasant task before her in going to Primrose
Hill, to assure Hyacinth that her efforts
have been successful ; and when she feels her
sister s kisses on her cheek, and hears her
call her by all sorts of affectionate and caressing
names in token of her gratitude, she can
only be glad to have earned such a reward at
any risk, and almost forgets her annoyance
with regard to Robert Free.

She finds Mrs. Durant and her stepdaughter
immersed in the tremendous responsibility
of choosing the trousseau , and unable
to converse on any subject except materials,
and patterns, and trimmings .

The marriage is fixed for a month later,

VOL. III. 51

and there will only just be time to procure
what is necessary by the day itself.

The third of August,' sighs Hyacinth ;
doesn't it seem horribly near ? But you
will be my principal bridesmaid, won't you,
darlings Bet ha ? I have told mamma that I
shall refuse to be married unless you are
there.'

Yes, Cinthy ! certainly I will ; that is, on
one condition says Beta, drawing her
aside.

'What is that? Should you prefer the
dresses of any other shade V

No ! my condition has nothing to do
with colours. It is, that you should keep
the promise you made to me yesterday, and
tell Lord Desborough all about this affair
with Mr. Claverton before you are married
to him.'

Hyacinth bites her lip, and turns pale.
Of course I will, Beta  didn't I say I
would ?  when a good opportunity occurs.

You don't suspect me of telling a story,
do you V

No, darling ! but the longer these disagreeable
matters are put off, the harder they
become. You may delay it for weeks, and
find no better opportunity than the present.
I saw Lord Desborough enter the library as
I arrived. Come with me now, and let us
tell him the truth at once.'

Oh no  no, Beta ! I couldn't, not now ;'
says Hyacinth, hanging back.

Cinthy ! be advised by me I It is like
having a tooth out, dear, a wrench for the
moment, but you will feel so much happier
when it is over. Come ! Mrs. Durant is
busy, and will not observe our absence ; and
I promise you it shall be all over in ten
minutes.'

But he will be so angry,' remonstrates
Hyacinth.

No, he won't ! Let me tell the story, and
you may be sure I shall put the best face on

512

it I can ! But even if he is angry, Cinthy,
you must bear it; because, remember, you
have promised /'

Oh, what a worry you are !' cries
Cinthia, looking as frightened as though
Lord Desborough were indeed a dentist ;
 why won't it do next week f

'Because it must be to-day,' replies
Beta firmly, as she drags her towards the
library.

As they enter the room together. Lord
Desborough starts up astonished at their
appearance, they both look so pale and
scared.

What is the matter V he exclaims. * Is
Cinthia iU V

No, Lord Desborough !' replies Beta,
attempting to smile ; ' Cinthia has never
been better in her life, for she has come
to make a little confession to you, which
I have promised in your name, will raise
instead of lower her in your estimation.'

A confession !' repeats his lordship, still
more puzzled ; ' but pray be seated both
of you.*

We would rather stand says Beta,
quietly, with an arm round her sister's
drooping form.  Before Hyacinth met you,
my lord, she had a foolish flirtation with
a gentleman (whose name I do not think you
will require from her), and in the course of it
she received and answered several letters
from him. There was never any serious
intention on either side. The gentleman has
returned my sister's letters, and we have
destroyed them, and all communication
between them henceforward will of course
be dropped. But I thought  and Hyacinth
thought  that it would not be strictly
honourable in her to marry you until you
had been informed of the circumstance ; and
therefore we came here to tell you. Don't
be hard on her, Lord Desborough. She is
very young, and she has been very imprudent ;

but I can guarantee that her heart has not
suffered in the transaction. I do not believe
she ever cared for the man. She was dazzled
by his good looks and admiration for
herself.'

The little viscount has shuffled about, and
looked very conscious and uneasy, during
Befcha's narration. But when it is concluded,
he takes Hyacinth's two cold hands in
his.

Cinthia !' he says, shortly, ' is your
sister's belief correct ? Did you love that
man V

No, Desborough ! At least, I did at first
just a little ; but not  not since '

Since when ? Since you loved me f

He has supplied her with the cue. It
would be so easy to answer him satisfactorily,
even without words ; and were Beta absent,
Hyacinth, reared in a school of 'fibbing,'
might be sorely tempted to do so. But she
cannot lie in the presence .of her sister's

truthful eyes. So she hesitates, and colours,
and looks down. Lord Desborough rightly
interprets her silence.

What was it cured you of your affection
for him, then, since it was not your love forme
V he demands fiercely.

I could not care for him when I saw that
he was selfish, and deceitful, and cared only
for himself.'

And am I selfish and deceitful too, that
you cannot care for me, even though you
have agreed to marry me V exclaims the
viscount, in an accent of pain.

Oh, Lord Desborough ! please don't say
that ! I knew you would be angry, but
Beta said if it were the case, I must bear it
in punishment for my imprudence. And
I think I would rather tell you all  the
whole truth  whatever it may cost me, for I
feel I shall be happier afterwards, and more
worthy of my sister's love. I do love you a
little  indeed  indeed I do; but I didn't

when I accepted you first. And all I
thought of was, that you had a title, and lots
of money, and I should be a viscountess.
And I told Beta the first day she came
here, that you were a prude, and a  a 
prig, and a  a  booby,' says Hyacinth,
breaking down into sobs. ' But I don't
think I quite meant it, and I am very sorry
now. And oh, Beta ! take me in your
arms and kiss me, for he'll never marry
me, and I shall have no one but you to
love me to my life's end,' concludes Cinthia,
as she throws herself upon her sister's
bosom.

My own brave child !' says Beta, fondly
kissing the head of brown curls that lies
upon her shoulder ; ' if Lord Desborough
does not love you the better for this painful
confession, he cannot know how to appreciate
true courage, and truth, and honour, when he
sees them.'

*And this is your teaching then, Miss

Selwyn says Lord Desborough, as he glances
admiringly at Beta.

No  no r is her disclaimer ; ' it is the
teaching of Cinthy's own heart.'

 But it was Beta who read my heart forme,
Lord Desborough, and showed me all
that was vain and deceitful in it. It was she
who brought me to your side now to tell you
what I should have been too great a coward
to confess by myself. And now let us go
back, dear sister ! Lord Desborough knows
the worst that I can tell him, and I shall
consider our engagement over from today.'


But won't you even try to love me V says
his lordship with comical dismay.

 If you still wish me to try,' replies Hyacinth,
coyly. And Desborough's answer is to
clasp her in his arms. So Beta creeps away
and leaves them thus, to commune with
each other's hearts, and patch up the broken
past as best they may, between them.

COME !'

A MONTH from this date, there is a grand
wedding in one of the most fashionable
churches of the metropolis, at which the
newly made Lady Desborough is pronounced
to be the prettiest bride of the season*
And if most of her female acquaintances are
false, as they whisper their fulsome compliments
on her appearance in the ears of Major
and Mrs. Durant, ' her sister the actress ' is
at least sincere in thinking so. To Beta,
the occasion is one of unmitigated pleasure.
She has watched Hyacinth closely during
the last month, and seen her respect and

esteem for her future husband growing, day
by day, until she fully believes that it will
culminate in that unalterable attachment
which constitutes a true marriage ; binding
two people firmly together in spite of their
mutual failings, and making them one in mind
as well as condition.

There is a large number of guests to
witness the wedding : the aristocratic connections
of Viscount Desborough and the
humbler though no less fashionable friends of
Major and Mrs. Durant. And all of them,
from the highest to the lowest, ask for an
introduction to ' the beautiful and accomplished
Miss Selwyn,' and congratulate their
host on the possession of such a daughter,
saying they feel that her acquaintance is an
honour to themselves.

So that Beta is bathe, on her own
account as well as her sister's ; for it is a true
triumph to find that by genius and an
honourable life, we can surmount all the

less.

difficulties of an equivocal position. And
her satisfaction reaches its climax when, the
ceremony being over, Major Durant steps
forward to congratulate the bride, and Hyacinth
turns from her father to her sister's
arms, exclaiming :

No, no ! Beta first  Beta first ! Kiss
me for her  my darling second mother, and
pray that we may be happy together, and
I may make him a good and faithful wife
And Beta kisses the sweet wet face again
and again, whilst a silent paean of praise
rises from her over-charged heart, that she
has been allowed thus to fulfil her dying
mother's prayer.

It is a good old-fashioned custom to hold
up * Virtue triumphant,' and * Vice debased,'
and it never would have become the custom
had there not been truth at the back of it.
It would be good for the world occasionally
to look into the heart of a man who has
never sown for himself those seeds of kindness

which spring up in fruits of love, and
see what a miserable, empty, hollow place it
is. For what is the basis of virtue but love ?
Show me the man who calls himself pious,
and observes all the practices of religion, and
yet neither loves his fellow-creatures nor
wins their love in return ; and I believe I
look upon as sure a denizen of hell as any
mortal upon earth. Such a man may say he
is happy, but he lies. No man has ever
been happy in this word without love.
Sooner or later his Nemesis overtakes him ,
the Nemesis of his broken promises, his lost
opportunities, his selfish aggrandisement ;
and he sees Death approach, with no hope
that a tear will be shed for him on this side
eternity, nor a smile welcome him on the
other ! The poorest man of all is he who
dies unloving and unloved ; for if he has
never matriculated for the science in this
world, it is hardly likely he will commence
practising on the angels.

Major Durant's Nemesis begins to make
its presence felt upon his daughter's wedding-day.
He has always petted Hyacinth in his
selfish way, chiefly because her features resemble
his own, and it wounds his pride
acutely that she should openly turn from
his embrace to that of her comparatively unknown
sister. It will not be long before he
recognises the fact that Nemesis does not
depart with the conclusion of that ceremony,
but returns to haunt him till the last day of
his life. For Lord Desborough is not so
much in love with Major and Mrs. Durant
as he is with their daughter, and sees but too
plainly that it is the force of their evil
example and careless training that has led
his young wife into the perpetration of so
much folly.

From the moment he made up his mind to
marry her, therefore, he determined that
Lady Desborough should see as little of her
parents after marriage as possible. He will

not make his wife unhappy by restriction 
far from it ; but papa and mamma will only
be invited on formal visits to the house of
their son-in-law, and Hyacinth is not so fond
of their company to render this circumstance
displeasing to her.

One by one, all the major's fond illusions
of livings more with the Desboroupfhs than
at Primrose Hill, will fade away, and he
will find himself reduced to settling down
for the remainder of his life by the side of
a wife who has long since got over her first
infatuation for him.

As for Beta, who might have been such
a loving solace and comfort to his old age,
it is hardly likely her father will care to
see much of her. Each time he meets the
gaze of those earnest eyes, so painfully like
her dead mother's, a ghost from the past
rises up to reproach him for his cruelty and
neglect of her first-born child, and Beta's
presence is a continual accusation to him.

So he will go downhill to his grave, becoming
more conscious each year that his
children's lives, and joys, and sorrows are
things in which he has no part : and the day
will come when he will groan in his solitude,
and wish that he had died with his first wife,
rather than have lived to feel so utterly forsaken
and alone. He will ascribe all his
misery to his unoffending daughters, and
declare that they are ungrateful and undutiful,
but no one will believe it but himself I
don't think he is worthy of any pity ! He
has never been an interesting character I
Let us pass on to something else.

# #-SS--rr-5

As soon as the clang of the wedding-bells
has subsided, and the finery is taken off and
laid away, Beta prepares to go down to
Buton, whither she despatched Mattie Levi-son
some wrecks before.

How many innocent, loving fibs had the
girl to tell before she could properly equip

her poor friend for the journey ! She was
too delicate to say to Mattie : ' I have procured
you an engagement at Buton, but you
cannot appear there unless you lay yourself
under a further obligation to me by accepting
an outfit of clothes. '

Beta could not have hinted such a thing
to the woman who had been used to five
hundred pounds a year for pin-money.

It was hard enough for her even to give
the poor creature a present without its appearing
to be done out of charity. So one
day she took her in her arms, and pillowing
the fallen head on her own pure breast, told
her a pardonable fiction about every actress
requiring an outfit on first joining the profession
; and how Mr. Cheyne, like all
managers, was quite aware of the fact, and
in the habit of making some allowance for
it.

'But I shall have to pay him back, then V
-said Mattie, innocently.

VOL. III. b2

Well, no', dear ! not exactly stammered
Beta. ' You see, it is this way. I daresay,
under other circumstances, Mr. Cheyne
would have given you a higher salary '

'Oh, Beta!'

But I told him you would require a stage
wardrobe, so you are only to receive two
pounds a week, you know ; and it will come
to the same thing in the end. And I
thought, as I have had so much experience
such matters, I had better buy the dresses
and linen for you, as you would not know
what would be most useful.'

Oh, thank you, dear, kind Beta !' said
Mattie, fully believing that the wardrobe was
somehow paid out of her own earnings.

Poor, pretty Mattie was never over-
burdened with brains in the days gone by,
and the companionship of Mr. Geoffrey Clifford
had not tended to train her intellectual
powers. So she only clung to her friend
and was grateful. And when she was at

last safely packed off to the care of Miss
Montalambert, looking graceful and lovely
as ever in a Y>ell-made travelling costume,
Beta felt as happy as though she had
rescued a nation from destruction. Since
which time she has received a letter from
her friend Kate, overflowing with enthusiasm
about the new arrival, and saying that her,
face created such a sensation on the first
night of her appearance, that ' uncle ' had
already decided to make her the principal
attraction of the coming pantomime. So
that Beta, travelling by express to Buton,
has reason to congratulate herself on the success
of both her missions.

Lady Desborough is with her husband
exploring the beauties of Switzerland ; and
Miss Norton ' is already a favourite with
the ' gods ' of Buton. What could an artful
little manoeuvrer like our heroine wish for
more 1 It is her natural ingratitude, I suppose
; but one thought will keep intruding

522

itself to mar her pleasure. She has neither
seen nor heard of Robert Free since the
day they met on the doorstep of Mr. Claver-ton
s chambers.

Beta supposes he may have left London ;
perhaps have returned to Baron's Court; and
be busy with the draining of meadows, or
the sowing of mangel-wurzel, or some equally
useful but uninteresting detail of country
life. Still she thinks he might have seen her
once again before he took his departure, considering
how very intimate they were in the
olden days. So small a courtesy could not
have harmed the future Mrs. Free, whoever
she might be !

But there has been no sign of Bob since
that day ; and Beta sighs as she leans back
on the carriage cushion and realises that
each mile they travel brings her nearer to
his home, and yet she has no chain to enter
there.

She is still thinking deeply when the train

runs into Buton Station, and the excited recognition
of Kate Montalambert and Mattie
Norton makes her realise she has reached her
journey's end.

What a different arrival this is from the
first ! A suite of rooms has been engaged
at the principal hotel in the town for * Miss
Selwyn and her party ' (for Beta has determined
that Kate and Mattie are to be her
guests for the month, and enjoy all the good
things she can afibrd to give them) ; and
thither, after a short delay, they proceed together.


Her reception is naturally a cordial one.
Miss Elizabeth Selwyn, the fair young
actress who created such a sensation in
Buton on her devil as Juliet, is doubly remembered
now that she has blossomed into a
celebrated artist ; and the landlord of the
Royal George considers himself very lucky
to have secured her patronage.

The manager, Mr. Cheyne, is in the vestibule

ready to receive her, backed by the
landlord and all the servants of the hotel, to
say nothing of a motley crowd who throng
about the steps and the adjoining pavement.


The crowd, most of whom have only heard
of the fame of the great Miss Selwyn, are
rather disappointed to find that the celebrated
actress is a slight, fair girl, dressed
in a tweed travelling suit, with her golden
hair twisted carelessly at the back of her
head.

Lor, is that she ? is the general comment.
I am disappointed ! Why, there ain't
nothing' of 'er 1 I could take 'er up in my
'and '

But Beta is quite unconscious of the unflattering
criticism she provokes, so happy is
she at finding herself amongst her old friends.
She is not to play until the following night,
however; so after a while, Mr. Cheyne
leaves them alone, and the excitement and

lustre die down, and they subside into a trio
of confidential women.

Mrs. Potter is, as usual, full of chatter.
Six years have neither moderated her enthusiasm
for others, nor lowered her opinion of
herself. But one terrible secret respecting
her lurks out in the course of conversation.
She is not yet married again herself, but her
son  her ' little boy,' ' mamma's pretty pet '
has done so on his own account, and
actually made her a grandmother !

Fancy me, dear !' cries Miss Kate, hiding
her blushing face with a pretty affectation
of horror ; ' only fancy, me a grandmother !
Oh dear ! oh dear ! it is quite too shocking !
I thought I should never hold my head up
again when I first heard the dreadful news I
I said I would strangle the things ! But it's
thriving ; and my boy says it will soon say
Granny" If it does, and they bring it in
my presence, my dear, it wull never leave it
alive !'

Beta is infinitely amused at Mrs. Potter's
horror at the blushing honours that have
been thrust upon her, and she perceives the
absurdity of her dismay, and her assumption
of youthfulness, much more clearly than she
did six years before. She is grateful to Miss-kate
for her kindness to her in the past
and her kindness to Mattie in the present,
but it is rather a relief when she quits the
room.

And how do you think you shall like your
new life, dear Mattie V inquires Beta, as-soon
as they are alone.

Mattie is sitting at Beta's feet, with her
head sin her lap ; and as her friend speaks
she turns and gratefully kisses her hand.

'Don't do that, dear,' says the other,
gently.

Oh, Beta ! I must ! How shall I ever
thank you, darling, for all you have done
for me ? What other woman would have
done the same ? And I was so unkind ta

you at the last. I said such wicked ungenerous
things  they often come back to me
now  and yet you came like a good Samaritan,
and forgave them all

 Hush  hush ! Mattie ! Please never
mention them again, nor think of them
even, for I have forgotten them long' aofo.
All I remember is the sweet dear Mattie of
Princess College, who always had a kind or
consoling word for an unhappy girl whose
young life was far too full of care and
anxiety. We have both known trouble,
dear, and it has bound us fast together. Let
us hope that the worst of it is over. Be true
to yourself, dear Mattie, in the future  and
the last part of your life may be better than
the first.'

There are tears in the eyes of both of
them as Beta concludes ; and they sit
silent, wondering over the possible future
she has alluded to. If they could foresee it,
they would know she is a true prophet ; and

looming in the distance, drawn towards
Mattie by that inexplicable Fate that arranges
'all our lives for us, is the fair-haired
young clerk who played Lord Darnley to
her Queen of Scots, in the tableaux vivants
at Albert Gate, and who, now turned into a
substantial man of business, will some years
hence offer his heart as a resting-place for
poor Mattie's wounded wings ; and let
her end her days there  safe and at
peace.

-rr-rr '/t-Sr #

It is needless to say that Beta s reception
at the old Theatre Royal is all that
she could wish for. Buton is not likely to
condemn that which has passed successfully
through the crucible of London opinion ; and
Mr. Cheyne thinks, on the first night of her
reappearance, that every conservatory in the
town must have been stripped for her benefit.
The county families from far and wide flock

to see and hear her ; the house is crowded
from pit to gallery every night; and Mr.
Cheyne has made an undeniable bargain in
securing her for one hundred pounds a week.
Beta, however, cares little for that. She
is pleased, on the contrary, that her kind old
manager should have scored a success by
her, and that she should have been able todo
his theatre a good turn. She is very free
and liberal with her money  spending it as
fast as she receives it  for this young lady
was never given to save a halfpenny that
could do good to anyone else. She deluges
Kate Montalambert and Mattie with presents
and good things, even going so far as to
present the former, to her indignation, with
a coral and bells for the grandchild. But if
she makes her friends' hearts light, her own
is rather heavy the while, and neither success
nor gratitude has the power to help her shake
off the depression, which grows worse instead
of better as the days pass on.

She declares to Bentham, and even to
herself, that it is the enervating influence
of the southern coast that is having an
effect on her, and that she shall be all right
as soon as she gets up to Manchester and
Liverpool. She takes long walks in consequence
 generally by herself  and often in
the direction of Baron's Court, which lies
some fourteen miles away from Buton.

But though the appearance of a horseman
in the distance often brings what is termed
her heart ' into her mouth,' she never catches
a glimpse of Robert Free, or any of his
family. Until one day, at a moment when
she least expects it, she conies suddenly upon
Lady Free.

Beta is in the town itself, bent on shopping
; and the old lady is in a Bath-chair,
drawn by a groom in livery, and accompanied
by her confidential maid, Mrs. Barker. As
Beta catches sight of her the blood mounts
to her face ; but she walks on deliberately,

with little idea that she will be recognised.
She has not gone, however, many paces beyond
Lady Free's chair, before she hears
her name articulated, and Mrs. Barker hurries
after her, with a request that she will turn
back and speak to her mistress.

Lady Free wishes to speak to me f
demands Beta in astonishment.

Yes, miss ! if you will be so kind. Her
ladyship sent me after you the other day, but
you went so fast, I couldn't catch you
up.'

Had a thunderbolt fallen at Botha's feet,
she could hardly have been more startled ;
but she obeys the impulses of her breeding,
and retraces her steps to the side of Lady
Free.

'Your servant says that you desire to
speak to me, madam,' she commences in her
haughtiest tone ; but as her glance falls on
the figure in the Bath-chair, she feels a
sudden compunction. Lady Free is looking

very old and fragile, and the withered hand
she extends for the girl's acceptance trembles
visibly.

'Yes, Miss Durant, I have wished to see
you for some time. I would have called on
you had I known your address. It is a long
while since we met, Miss Durant  a very long
while.'

Lonof enough to make one see the hollowness
of what the world calls friendship, Lady
Free  and to despise it.'

Yes, yes !  but I want to ask you something.
 John ! you can go away ; I wish to
speak to this young lady, alone. Go out of
earshot, John, and don't try to listen ; for
Barker will be watching you.'

The groom touches his hat, and walks
away as solemn as a judge, and then Lady
Free turns anxiously towards Beta.

Miss Durant ! tell me  what has become
of our boy ? Why won't you let him come
back to Baron's Court V

My lady  my lady !' interposes Barker,
had not your ladyship better wait till you
can speak to Miss Durant in a less public
place

For they are stationed in the middle of the
High Street of Buton.

Hold your tongue, Barker ! and mind
your own business,' replies Lady Free, peevishly.
' Don't mind her, my dear ! She is
an impertinent creature, and I have ruined
her by indulgence. But tell me the truth !
Why does not our Robert come back to
Baron's Court V

Why should you ask me such a question V
replies Beta. * I know nothing of Mr.
Free's affairs. I have only just returned
from America, where I have lived for the
last six years.'

The old lady looks puzzled.

In America for six years !' she repeats
slowly. ' Then why should our Robert be
working in London like a common man V

I did not know that he was working in
London, madam. I thought he was Using
with you and his father at Baron's Court.
But anyway, / have nothing to do with his
actions or proceedings.'

 Oh yes, you have I  you have !  and I'll
prove it to you. Barker ! where is my bag 1
Give me Master Bobert's last letter to his
papa. It's very hard upon us, Miss Durant 
very hard indeed  with poor Sir Willoughby
at death's door, and I so feeble and old, that
I can render him no assistance, and Bobert,
his only child, refuses to live at home  and
all on your account  your account.'

Lady Frere/ says Beta, proudly, ' I do
not understand your words. If your grandson
refuses to live at Baron's Court, he must
have private reasons for doing so, and they
do not concern me. I have seen him but
once since my return to England, and then
quite by accident.'

*But he has always been in love with

you says Lady Free, suspiciously. ' He
has never cared for any woman but yourself,
and he says that he never shall.'

I have nothing to do with that replies
Beta, with apparent indifference, though
her heart has begun to beat more rapidly at
the mere idea.

Barker ! what a time you are ! What
are you fumbling about like that for ? Didn't
you hear me say I wished to see Master
Robert's last letter V

'Yes, my lady  certainly, my lady; but
don't you think if your ladyship were to
order John to wheel you to a more private

place first '

Barker ! hold your tongue ! You're a
perfect parrot, and keep on repeating the
same words over and over again ! You don't
mean to deny. Miss Durant, that our poor
Robert fell in love with you the very first
time he saw you I'

I do not wish to deny anything, madam !
VOL. III. 53

Mr. Free was, I believe, attached to me at
that period, and we were engaged to each
other until the tie became irksome to both of
us, and was broken by mutual consents I
hoped and I believed at that time that he
would relinquish his occupation in the city,
and return to his friends. I never thought
it a fit position for him, and I am as innocent
of having had a hand in his adopting it, as I
am of the other offences your ladyship saw
good to lay to my charge.'

What offences ? what charge V demands
Lady Free, eagerly.

Your ladyship can hardly have forgotten
that when Mr. Free revealed the feet of my
profession, you paid a visit to Mrs. Matthews,
and told her your opinion of it, and myself.
At all events, / have not forgotten what she
repeated to me, nor the insult I considered

itr

Ah, my dear, I was angry at the moment
very angry  and we are not responsible

for what we say ia a rage ! But if I spoke
hastily, I have been punished for it Six
years, my dear! Six long years has our
Robert been separated from us, and all on
your account! Here is his letter! See
what he says, and when I had written to tell
him his pooh father was so ill that we had
been obliged to come into Buton, that he
might be nearer his doctor. Just read what
Bobert says in reply to it.'

And pointing with her shaking finger to a
certain paragraph, Beta follows the direction
of it, and reads as follows :

You reproach me with my long absence
from Baron's Court, and my determination
to work for myself, and you say I am undutiful
and unforgiving. My dear hither, I
am neither, but we view these things in a
different light. Six years ago you turned
me out of my home for refusing to break my
engagement with Miss Durant, and I 



mined to make myself independent of your
favour, and to work for my future wife.
That necessity  God help me ! -is over.
Our engagement is a thing of the past  but
I shall never marry (as I can never love) any
woman but herself Therefore I must still
refuse to give up the independence I have
created and exist on the parental bounty at
Baron s Court. I live on the hope  barren
as it may be  that some day Miss Durant
and I may be re-united. If that time ever
comes, and it found me unable to offer her a
home, I should curse the filial duty that had
made me return to your side. You know
that it was your refusal to receive her as a
daughter that caused the rupture between
us. Until that refusal is turned into a ready
and willing consent, I prefer to remain in
service to Messrs. Mac-Kinnon. Nothing
can alter my determination. Were Miss
Durant to marry some one else tomorrow,
it would be all the same. I shall remain

single for her sake  in case she should ever
be free  until the grave has closed over us
both.'

As Beta peruses these words and reads
all the love in her lover's heart for her  the
constant love that has survived indifference,
infidelity, and separation  she has to set her
teeth close together to prevent the rebellious
tears, that have welled up into her eyes, from
overflowing her cheeks and betraying her
emotion.

She would like to kiss the paper that
contains those dear words, and to exclaim
aloud how much she loves and thanks the
writer. But she stands like a statue instead,
with veiled eyes and downcast head.

Lady Free, meanwhile, leans forward in
her chair, and scrutinises the girl's features
with eager curiosity.

What do you think of it ?' she asks

anxiously, as Beta's eyes rest on the last
word.

It is a good letter,' says Beta, quietly ;
and a true one, and worthy of your grandson.'


But you see what he says,' continues the
old lady, piteously. * He won't come back
to us. He refuses to live at Baron's Court,
whilst his poor father is pining away for a
sight of him. He is wanted on the estate
and amongst the tenants, and Sir Willoughby
is failing fast, and what can a poor old
woman like myself do to mend matters ! If
Robert were back, all would go right
again.'

Lady Free, what do you want me todo
V demands Beta, in a low voice.

Barker, go away ! Go and look after
John,' exclaims the old woman sharply ; and
as the servant walks demurely on she turns
again to Beta, and seizes both her hands.
Oh, my dear ! write to him  write to him

and tell him it is his duty to come back.
Robert will come if you tell him to do so.
Think of us, my dear. We are old and sick
and feeble  his poor old father and me  and
have not many years to live in this world !
Use your influence with our boy, and bring
him back to us.'

But he says,' replies Beta, struggling
with her feelings,  that he will not return
unless you receive me as a daughter, and
that, you know, is impossible.'

Do you dislike him, then V asks the
grandmother, piteously.  Oh, my dear,
don't say that ! He is a good boy, for all
his obstinacy, and if he has offended you in
any way, try to forgive him for our sakes.
You are young and beautiful, and I hear
you have made a great success, and have
the world at your feet ; but if you are not
otherwise engaged, do try to love our boy
again, and bring him back to us.'

But you forget / am an actress /' says

Beta, drawing her figure up to its fullest
height.

You are a Durant, my dear, and as for
the other, what does it signify so long as
you love our Robert and will make a goodwife
to him.'

'Do you mean to say, then, that you
would not be ashamed to own to the world
that your grandson had married his wife
from off the stage ?'

I shall be prouder of you than of an' -
thing I have ever known,* cries the poor old
lady, with tears standing on her withered
cheeks, * if you will be the good angel in our
house, and bring peace and happiness back
to my poor son's heart and mine

Then I will write to E-ob and try what
I can do with him,' replies Beta, as she
stoops down and kisses the tears away.

Lady Free holds her tightly to her
breast.

Come and be my daughter, dear,' she

whispers, ' and forgive me if my old-world
prejudices ever induced me to say an unkind
word of a profession which is ennobled by
your presence

From Beta Selwyn to Robert Free.

I met your grandmother to-day in the
High Street, and she showed me part of
your last letter to your father.

I did not know before that you had not
returned to Barons Court, nor for what
reason you refused to give up your occupation
in the City. The thought of this, and
of what your poor father and grandmother
are suffering on your account, has made me
very unhappy. Of what consequence are
our feelings to theirs, who have so few years
left in which to enjoy themselves ?

Kob ! pray alter your resolution, and
return home to take up your proper position

less.

by their side. I ask it as a favour to myself.
Would you make me further responsible fora
sin in which you know that I have no
part V

Robert Free to Beta Selwyn.

I must apologise for the delay in answering
your letter, which followed me
abroad. When it reached me I was in the
company of Lord and Lady Desborough.
What a charming girl your sister is, and how
proud her husband seems of her ! She is
never tired of talking of you, and all your
goodness to her, and in the course of our
confidence she related to me a story which,
though partially veiled, was sufficient to tell
me why I met you that morning in the
Strand. If I loved you before, how much
more do you think I love you now ?

Beta ! you say you have read my letter
to my father. You know, then, the only

condition on which I will return to take up
my residence at Baron's Court. It lies in
your power to decide whether I make the
last days of my father and grandmother as
happy as you wish them to be. Only write
the word " Come /" and I will be at your
feet and in their arms as soon as an express
train will take me there.'

Beta Selwyn to Robert Free.
Come /'

