PROLOGUE.

HE reading of that letter seemed
to exhaust Nelson Cole's stock
of patience, for before he had
t finished it he lurked it from his hand, whence
r it fluttered to the ground.
> ' Crow awa my bantam ! ' he said to
; some imaginary listener, as he lit a cigar
 and elevated his legs until they formed a
Right angle with the mantelpiece. * Crow



away ! You will have discovered your error

.i

VOL. I.

long before you come to my age. Your
theory is all very well as a theory, but it
won't wash, my Saint Bernard, it wont
wash But after a while spent in watching
the rings of cloudy blue smoke, with which
he was doing his best to fill the apartment,
Nelson Cole seemed to determine that his
friend's letter was too good to lie upon the
floor, for he took the trouble to bring his
legs down to their normal position in order
that he might pick it up, and smooth out its
creased pages on his knee. ' Poor dear
Freshfield,' he thought, somewhat contemptuously
as he did so, 'he is a deal
too good for such a naughty world ! He
sees no further beyond him than a week-old
puppy. He ought to come to this country
to get his eyes opened. He'd see a few
marriages here and a few women that would
make him view his impossible ideal in its
proper light. How can a man live to eight-and-twenty
and remain so green ! '

The letter, as it lay smoothed out on

Nelson Cole's knee (or at least the part
that had so much amused him), ran thus : 

You ask me if I think of marrying again.
No ; my dear Cole, that page of my life is,
I believe, closed for ever. Not that I have
lost the wish or the power to love, far from
it  the difficulty is, that in discovering what
I have missed, I seemed to have realised
a paradise which is too great for attainment.
Let me try and explain myself. You know
that I married, partly to please my mother,
partly to satisfy my conscience. My wife
was pretty, amiable, well-bred, and fond of
me. We never had a differing word in the
course of our married life, and I am sure
that she never disregarded a wish that I
expressed. Added to all this, I had a tender
affection for her, which I still retain
for her memory. You will ask me then
what more I could desire, and I cannot tell
you, excepting this, that our union did not
include the union of our souls, and our
separation leaves mine still hungering to

find its mate. I was fond of poor Alice,
and I mourned her loss ; but, at the same
time, I could have loved fifty other women
as well as I loved her, and all at once, if
the laws of my country had permitted it.'
(hullo!' said Nelson Cole, 'here's a nice
specimen of an English parson. This is
what they call a " muscular Christian," I
suppose. Why, the fellow will be wanting
to keep a harem next')

Now that is not the feeling one should
have respecting one's wife. xA. man should
as soon be inclined to be untrue to himself
as to her, or to have another self as another
wife. Once wedded, should be wedded for
eternity, and death should come as a veil
only, not as a divorce between man and
woman. There should never be a second
marriage. Cole ; there never could be, if the
first proved the true union of soul to soul.
I have made one mistake, you see, but I
will never make another. My eyes have
been opened, and the next awakening would

be far more terrible than the first. Of
course my mother will not admit my argument.
She is a good mother to me, but
she holds to the old-fashioned idea that
parsons and doctors should be married men
for the sake of their patients, as if one could
preach truth all the better with a lie in one's
right hand.

No, Cole ! I believe I shall die as I
live, but I shall go through the world with
my eyes open, and should I happily succeed
in finding my soul's mate, whether she be
clothed in rags or satin, seated on a dunghill
or a throne, I will woo her till she is
mine. But do not imagine that I believe
in the possibility of such happiness  I only
dream of it, as men dream of heaven.'

Yes ! and you may go on dreaming, my
boy,' said Nelson Cole, as he twisted up the
paper, and threw it this time upon the burning
fire ; ' and you will die dreaming, take
my word for it 1 Your " soul's mate," indeed !
Show me the women with souls, and I'll

soon find tHe men to mate with them. But
I question with the followers of Mahomet,
if women have such things. The Loathes
and Bottles and Bottles of the present day
go far to persuade us they have not. And
your theory is a dangerous one, Saint Bernard
! Going In search of your *' soul's mate "
will lead you to wooing your neighbour's
wife perhaps  or striking up a paradisiacal
wedding with your housemaid. I am fond
of this boy with his Puritanical Ideas and
close-shorn monkish face, and wish I could
go to England and look after him a-bit.
But it can't be just yet, and I must content
myself with a letter of sound practical advice.
The lad was always a dreamer with those
blue eyes and white cheeks of his. Ah !
wait till you come to forty, Bernard, then
you'll know how much a woman is worth
striving for, or grieving after.'

So thinking, our cynical friend reached
down his hat and overcoat, and prepared to
leave the house. He was a sojourner In the

city of Chicago, in the United States of
America, at this time ; but only for a brief
period. His profession, that of a civil engineer,
had led him out to the New World some
years before, and he had been reaping the
golden profits of an experienced hand and
clever practical brain ever since. He had
been employed in laying down railroads in
several of the States, and began to feel himself
quite a naturalised American, especially
as he was well known, and sure of a welcome
in most of their hospitable cities. In Chicago
he felt himself peculiarly at home, having
many old friends settled there, and as he
strolled towards the principal theatre, he
knew that he should be met by a score of
outstretched hands. And from the male
portion of creation, Nelson Cole deserved
the cordiality extended to him. He was a
man of about fifty  grey-haired, keen-eyed,
clear-headed, and critical  a bit of a philosopher
without an atom of romance in his
composition, and wishing to be thought more

hard and bitter than he naturally was. Essentially
a man's man : fond of sport, politics,
late hours, and bachelors' parties, and eschewing
 like the evil one  all assemblies
where the female element predominated, or
was the principal attraction.

What Nelson Cole really thought of women
few of his own sex had ever heard. He seldom
mentioned them ; apparently they engaged
his thoughts as little as though they
did not exist. Some men thought that he
must have been cruelly disappointed or
betrayed in his early days : others that he
actually felt as little as he professed to do.
But whatever their speculations, Nelson
Cole remained a thorough good friend and
boon companion to themselves. It was past
eleven o'clock as he entered the theatre
saloon, and the bar was crowded with noisy,
chattering, young men. The babble was
so great, and the discussion so animated,
that his entrance was at first altogether
disregarded, and he had time to gather

some notion of the subject of which they
spoke.

They say he has dismissed her  it's a
d  d shame ! ' cried one.

I don't see that. I think she fully deserves
it. The woman was intoxicated,'
replied another.

Intoxicated !' interrupted a third contemptuously,
as though that word were far
too weak. ' She was drtcnk  drunk as an
owl ; ' and then the chorus swelled indiscriminately.


But it's the first time, and it's deuced
hard a girl should lose her bread for a single
offence.'

How do you know it's the first time ? 
not likely. A woman tries it on a good
many times in private before she ventures
to appear before the public in that condition.'

*Of whom do you speak ?' asked Nelson
Cole, and then the general attention was
diverted to him.

Oh ! here's Cole. How are you, Cole,

old fellow ? Glad to see you, my boy ! * and
so on and so on. But amongst them all
Nelson Cole addressed but one.

'Jack Neville!' he exclaimed, 'can I believe
my eyes ? Where do you hail from ?
I thought you were safe in San 'Frisco.'

The man he spoke to, a fine, handsome,
sun-burned fellow of about thirty, coloured
visibly even beneath the tan of a Californian
sun.

Oh, I left 'Frisco long ago, and have
been lounging about the South for the last
six months,' he replied hurriedly. * I  I 
got into a bit of a scrape down there, you
know ! '

'And serve you right, my boy, for herding
with such a rascal as that Sandie Macpherson,'
said Cole. ' I told you what
he was from the beginning ; and I only
hope you've shaken yourself free of his
clutches.'

Be careful. Cole ! some one may hear
you,' interposed the younger man. * Macpherson's

friend, Paley, was at the bar
not two minutes ago ! '

Paley may hear me or not,' replied
Cole loudly. * Nothing would give me
greater pleasure than to have an opportunity
of settling old scores with that detestable
Scotch rascal.' But men, as a
rule, dislike a disturbance in a public place,
especially if it does not concern themselves,
and the other loungers at the bar commenced
to crowd about Cole, and reiterate
the news that had occupied them on his
arrival.

Only fancy, Cole ! poor little Stephanie
Harcourt.*

That pretty girl, with the blue eyes and
golden hair.'

Blue eyes, Marshall ? What are you
talking about ? her eyes are as black as
night.'

Black eyes  rubbish ! Why, the girl is
as fair as she can be.'

I tell you, her eyes are black, or nearly

so ; I've been close to them, and ought to
know.'

Well, well, never mind her eyes ! ' interrupted
Nelson Cole impatiently. What's
the matter with the girl ? '

Why, she came in so drunk in the
burlesque to-night that she couldn't stand,
and Evans has dismissed her from the
theatre.'

That's nonsense ! she could staid fast
enough ; only she had had a little too much,
and forgot her part.'

Broke down entirely in her singing,
and you know She had the song of the
evening.'

Who is Stephanie Harcourt ? ' demanded
Cole in an indifferent tone, addressing Jack
Neville, who stood next him.

I don't know,' answered Jack slowly, ashe
moved away.

'She's quite a beginner  only been on
the boards a few months  and I think it's
awfully hard lines on her to get her dist



missal for a little mistake,' said another
young man. Nelson Cole's hard voice fell
like cold water on his enthusiasm.

Drunkenness is never a little mistake
with women : when they once begin, they goon,
and Evans is quite right to check the
first symptoms of it by a summary dismissal.
He'll find plenty of girls to take Miss Harcourt's
place. There are more than enough
of them in the world, heaven knows.'

You didn't expect to get any sympathy
out of Cole, I suppose ?' laughed some of the
men at the drinking-bar, as the person they
spoke of elbowed his way from amongst
them, and went to the private room of his
old friend, the manager, where, after a little
desultory conversation, he contrived to bring
the subject round to Miss Stephanie Harcourt's
offence.

Sorry to hear you had a fracas on the
boards to-night, Evans.'

Yes, a disgraceful business ! Little Harcourt
perfectly intoxicated ! I was rather

afraid of it from the beginning. She's a
strangely excitable girl.'

Got connections in Chicago ? '

Don't know, I'm sure. I've heard some
report of her being married, but I don't
trouble myself about the affairs of my company
outside the theatre. But I was obliged
to make an example of her. I had no end
of trouble last year with a woman named
Harrison, who went on in the same way,
so I gave Miss Harcourt her dismissal then
and there.'

Shall you miss her ? '

Not much. She's a sharp girl, but no
particular talent, and I fancy she'll not find
it easy to get employment on the boards
again in this city.'

Not when you've made a public example
of her from your theatre, certainly,' replied
Nelson Cole, with apparently the utmost
indifference to Stephanie Harcourt's fate.
Yet the girl's pathetic eyes and mouth,
which he had noticed but cursorily in his

visits to the Athenian Theatre, seemed to
haunt him strangely for the remainder of
the evening, and when he rose to return
home, he passed out by the stage door
and asked the porter if he knew Miss
Harcourt's address.

I can't say I do, sir ; but I think that
lady can tell us. Miss Vavasour,' he continued,
addressing a tall, closely-veiled figure
about to cross the threshold, ' can you
tell this (gentleman where Miss Harcourt
lives?'

The veiled Avoman turned, and regarded
Nelson Cole somewhat suspiciously.

She lives with me,' she replied, with
caution ; ' do you wish to send her a
message ? *

Are you her friend ? ' asked Nelson Cole,
stepping out into the street beside her.

I am, sir. Are you ? '

I should wish to be. Miss Vavasour ! I
feel for the misfortune that has overtaken
her this evening, and if she requires assistance

 It Is a delicate thing that I would say,
but perhaps you understand me  '

It Is a kind thing, sir,' replied the actress,
they were walking slowly on together by this
time, ' and In her name I thank you for It.
Her dismissal from the Athenian Is a very
serious matter, for she has no other means of
support, but I hope she may get work somehow.
You mustn't think this Is a habit with
her, sir  Indeed  Indeed  It Is the first time
she has ever so transgressed. I have known
her for eighteen months, and I can swear to
It ; but Mr Evans would not take my word.'

And what was the occasion of this
first transgression. Miss Vavasour ? Do you
knov/ ? '

I am not sure if I should be justified in
disclosing Stephanie's secrets, sir ; but she
has had great trouble. I can tell you so
much, and an old friend met her out to-day
and told her some good news, and took her
in and treated her to dinner somewhere, and
I think it was the load off her mind and the

excitement and the champagne altogether
that did it.'

Poor child ! no wonder it had an effect
upon her. But what will she do now for a
living ? '

I don't know, sir ! You had better ask
Stephanie herself. It is here that we live
together. This is our door ! '

Thank you for the information. Ot
course I cannot intrude to-night, but tomorrow
perhaps, if you would prepare Miss
Harcourt for my appearance  '

But he had not had time to finish his sentence
before the door of the house was thrown
open, and Stephanie Harcourt appeared upon
the threshold.

Bella she cried to her friend hysterically,
' it is all over. I am dismissed without
salary, and I can't even pay you my share of
the week's rent ! The sooner I go to the
Tombs with that scoundrel the better ! '

Hush, hush, dear ! there is a stranger present,'
said Miss Vavasour compassionately.

VOL. I. B

But the 2:irl was too excited to heed hero



caution.

I mioht have known misfortune was at
hand,' she went on passionately, ' for I met
him to-day, you know who I mean  my evil
genius. There has always been trouble forme
following in the wake of Sandie Macpherson.'


At that name, heard for the second time
that evening, Nelson Cole started ; but he
was too much a man of the world not to
conceal his surprise.

Stephanie ! this gentleman wishes to be
your friend, but this is not the time for you
to speak to him. Come in now and let us
go to bed, and tomorrow, when you are
more composed, perhaps he will come and
hear the story of your troubles,' said Miss
Vavasour.

I shall never be more composed,' replied
the girl incoherently. I have had so little
good luck in my life. Why couldn't they
have left me the little I possessed. But now

I've lost everything, and I might just as well
be in the Tombs with him as starving in the
streets of Chicago. Oh, those horrid dreary
Tombs ! Why did I ever meet Jack ?'

Come in, come in,' whispered her friend,
in a soothing voice.

Nelson Cole tried to make his escape
without further parley.

I will call tomorrow afternoon,' he said,
as he lifted his hat and turned away.

Do you know Sandie Macpherson ? '
screamed Stephanie after him, and that
name from her lips seemed somehow to
send a chill through him.

What connection this poor little burlesque
actress in Chicago could possibly have with
the desperate and evil-disposed gold-digger
of Sacramento Valley, whose villainy had
cast a secret shadow over his own life, he
could not imagine ; but the fact of her having
mentioned his name would have drawn him
to her side again, without the inducement
of wishing to befriend her poverty. He

tried to persuade himself, in his free and
easy manner, that the whole affair troubled
him but little ; but the fact is that it troubled
him very much, to the extent of preventing
his going to sleep till the early morning, and
not waking up until it was time to keep his
appointment with Miss Harcourt. But when
he reached her presence, it was a very different
person who presented herself to him
from the flushed and dishevelled Bacchante
of the day before. It was a very pale and
miserable-looking girl  half frightened and
half ashamed  whom Miss Vavasour dragged
rather than led into the room to be introduced
to him. There was none of the
brazen defiance of a woman used to vice
in Stephanie Harcourt.

She looked rather like a child who had
been detected in some fault and brought up
for punishment.

She knew now what had befallen her the
night before ; and it was so terrible to be
presented to this grave, elderly man, who

had seen her a prey to the most disgusting
vice of which a woman can be guilty. But
the worldly view that Nelson Cole took of
the matter reassured her. If he had looked
shocked, the girl would have shrunk from
his scrutiny. Had he sympathised with her,
she would have broken down,  but he treated
it as a matter of every-day occurrence, as indeed
it unfortunately was with the women he
was most in the habit of seeing.

Come, come. Miss Harcourt,' he said,
as she held backward, ' this has been an unfortunate
accident ; but accidents will happen,
as we all know, in the best regulated families.
You will not be surprised to hear that your
face is well known to me, as it is to most
of the inhabitants of Chicago, and perhaps
your friend here, Miss Vavasour, has told
you that if I can be of any assistance to
you in this dilemma, I will. I am an old
man, you see, and you need have no scruples
in accepting my help. What can I do for
you ?'

Can you get me other work ? ' demanded
the girl shyly.

Perhaps I can. At all events I will
try. What do you wish to do ? Do you
intend to apply for another engagement in
Chicago ? '

Oh no ; anything but that  anything but
that,' cried Stephanie, with visible repugnance.
' I could not bear the shame of
another public appearance here. If there
were only work that I could do to be procured
in the country  in the open peaceful
country.'

Do you love the country, then ? '

Oh ! to find oneself there,' continued the
girl excitedly. ' To wake up and find oneself
amongst the primroses and violets, and the
cool, cool grass, and the leafy trees and waving
corn, and to know that one had done forever
with the noise and glare of the town,
and the cruel bricks and mortar that seem to
press upon one's heart, and keep all the joy
and freshness of life from bubbling over.'

Stephanie, do think what you are saying
! ' exclaimed Miss Vavasour. 'The
gentleman asked you what work you would
like best. You must excuse her wandering,
sir she continued to Nelson Cole, ' for she
is still weak and feverish, and I don't think
she half knows what she is talking about.'

Pray, let her talk as she will  I am interested
in all she can tell me,' he replied ;
ands indeed, a colder man than himself must
needs have felt some interest in the ultimate
fate of the beautiful creature before him.
For Stephanie Harcourt was beautiful, with
more than the mere physical beauty of
colour and shape. She was about eighteen
years of age, with a graceful figure of middle
height  a head of rippling golden hair 
whether natural or artifical Nelson Cole
was not skilled enough to determine, and
pathetic eyes of some deep neutral tint,
which looked just now like the eyes of a
hunted animal. But her greatest charm lay
in the far-off look of those eyes, as if her

soul saw more 'that was presented to her
earthly vision, and was filled with high and
glowing thoughts. As Nelson Cole gazed
upon those upturned eyes, they reminded
him of  he knew not what  and he turned
away with a shudder.

Have you ever lived in the country, Miss
Harcourt ? ' he asked her presently.

No ! no! Never! I have been reared
amongst the glare and the gas of cities. I
can remember nothing but the smell of liquor
and the sound of oaths, and the clash of the
dice and the billiard balls, and the horrid,
horrid bricks and mortar.'

You must have had a strange experience ? '
Ah ! you would say so if you knew all

I have passed through before I came to
Chicago  all the horrors that I saw in San
Francisco. How I wish,' she went on
passionately, * that that place and everything
connected with it, down to its very
name, might be burned off the face of the
earth ! '

You mustn't excite yourself like this,' said
Nelson Cole. * It Is giving way to their
feelings after that fashion that makes people
forget themselves, as you did yesterday.'

But that was an accident  indeed it was !
How could I imagine a little wine would
affect me so ? And Jack said it would dome
good. And we laughed and talked so
much I did not notice how often he filled
my glass, and I felt so well and happy until
I walked out of the keen frosty air into the
theatre, and then, somehow, all the lights
seemed to close round me, and my head
felt like a feather, and I seemed to be floating
somewhere between the flies and the
stage, until a crash came and I fell down.
But it was all Jack's fault. He ought not
to have given me so much champagne.'

Is Jack your husband ? '
Who told you I had a husband } *
You see I know it.'

'Ah! and so you may! Everyone may
know it now, if they choose, for it can't last

long. Jack my husband ! Oh no ! he's
only a friend ; but we came across each
other yesterday in the streets, and he gave
me news of him that drove me mad.'

Not mad with grief, I hope.'

No ! no ! mad with joy ? And what do
you think the news was ? That he's locked
up for two years in the Tombs for forgery.
Two years! Two long, blessed years. And
I shall be free before he comes out, Bella,
shan't I ? ' she cried, as she cast herself into
the arms of her friend. ' Free from him
and from all of them. Free to bury my
secrets in the sea ; free from that awful
curse  '

Hush, dear, don't talk so fast. Yes,
yes, you shall be free, if there's any justice
or truth in the laws of our country. But,
meanwhile, you must live, you know, and
this gentleman is kind enough to say that
he will help you, and I do think if he would
assist you to go to your friends for a little
while, and try and forget all this misery

before you turn your thoughts to work
again, that it would be the kindest thing
he could do.'

Never fear,' said Nelson Cole, ' but that
I will perform all that I have promised.
Meanwhile, Miss Harcourt, your disclosures
have interested me very much. May I ask
the name of your husband ? '

Oh yes ; it is no secret. He is a
Brazilian, called Fernan Cortes.'

And  pardon me, he is a rascal ! '

The greatest rascal that ever existed, sir.'

My poor child, how came you to marry
him?'

I can't tell you that. I was frightened
into it in a way that you would hardly
understand. Only, thank heaven, I am
now delivered from him.'

But after his two years' incarceration are
over, he will come out again and claim you.'

I will have broken the chain by that time.
I will have gone far away where he shall
never find me.'

And you met Cortes in San Francisco ?*

Yes, sir.*

*And that scoundrel Sandie Macpherson
had some hand in your marrying him ? '
The girl's cheek became as white as ashes.
Who has told you that ? '

No one. I guessed it'

You have guessed wrong, sir. But I hate
Macpherson. God forgive me. I hate him
like my life.'

You share the feeling with many others.
He is a man universally detested.'

But few know him as I do,' murmured
the girl ; * all his cruelty, his artifice, his
secret crimes. And my poor mother  can I
ever forget her ? '

He injured your mother too ?'

Ah, sir, do not ask me to speak of it !
Whom has he not injured ? But when you
hear me talk of the peace and quiet of the
country, as if I were talking of heaven,
remember that I can never disassociate
the rattle and bustle and glare of the

town from the thought of cruelty and
crime.'

Nelson Cole left his seat and began to
pace up and down the room.

Did you live long In California ? ' he
asked.

Many years. All my life, until I came
here.'

Did you ever happen to meet there,  a
a  anybody of the name of Summers ? '

A woman ? ' Inquired Stephanie innocently.


Yes ; yes ; well  a  a  woman.'

No ; I never knew any woman there
except my mother, till she died.'

And you said yesterday that you had
seen Sandie Macpherson in this town ? '

Oh yes, sir ; I met him suddenly,' with
a shudder ; * but he did not see me, and so
I escaped him.'

One would think from the way you
mention him, that this man had a hold on
YOU, Miss Harcourt.'

o Pkylltda.

Stephanie glanced meaningly at her friend
before she answered.

No  not a hold  only  I am afraid of
him

And you would like to get far away from
all the places where you are likely to meet
him again ? '

Ah ! so much  so much ! '

Well, I will put you in the way of doing so.
There ; no thanks. I have more money than
I know what to do with myself  and if a
few dollars can benefit you, you are welcome
to them. But I suppose you ought to know
my name. I am Nelson Cole the engineer,
and you shall hear from me again in the
course of the day.'

So saying, this eccentric man, without a
sino-le dance of admiration at the beautiful
girl, who was sitting with her head bowed
in her hands like a repentant Magdalen,
seized his hat, and with a curt ' Good afternoons
left the two women by themselves.
And as he returned to his hotel, he was

ready to laugh at himself for a fool for
having been taken in by swollen eyelids and
a downcast countenance.

What is this girl to me,' he thought
impatiently, as he traversed the streets, ' that
I should offer to throw away my money
upon her ? A trumpery little burlesque
actress who chooses to disgrace herself by
drinking champagne with any Jack who
invites her to celebrate with him her husband's
arrest for forgery. And I must needs
put my finger in the pie and offer to provide
her with liquor for the next six months. I
am a fool, and no mistake. And yet there
is something in the child's voice and look

o

that attracts me in spite of myself. I don't
believe she can be all bad ; however, appearances
are against her. Well, I've done the
job now, and I can't draw back from it. I'll
send her a bill for two hundred dollars tomorrow,
and wash my hands of the whole
affair.'

For the names of San Francisco and

Sandie Macpherson rankled more In Nelson
Cole's mind than all the troubles of Stephanie
Harcourt. They had raised up the
old bull-dog feeling in his breast, which for
years he had attempted to quell by never
mentioning the man whom he hated, nor
thinking of him more than was absolutely
necessary.

Yet here he was in the same town as
himself, and Nelson Cole felt as if it were
impossible for him to sleep until they had
met, and had it out with one another.

But an excellent dinner had the power
to soothe much of his resentment, and when
it was concluded, he prepared, as usual, to
finish up his evening at the theatre.

As he was putting the finishing touch to
his attire before the mirror, some thought
of Bernard Freshfield's last letter suddenly
struck him, and he burst into a loud laugh.

Oh, my saintly parson, with the Impossible
theory,' he exclaimed, ' you should see the
end of a few of the marriages that are made

In heaven before you attempt to foist your
ideas of an eternal union on the world.
The ignoramus ! why, his marriage with his
Alice  innocent, inoffensive, and quickly
brought to an end  was the true ideal had
he only known it ! Where will he ever find
such another wife  to live with him peaceably
for two years, and leave him a freeman
at the end of them ? He has had the
luck of one in a ' thousand. Yet he continues
to whine after the true soul union.
Bosh ! What would he say if he could see
poor little Harcourt getting tipsy for joy,
because her husband is locked up for two
years, or knew of  of  a dozen other cases
I could name where men have commenced
their married lives with passionate congratulations,
and ended them by cursing
all mankind ?

My Saint Bernard decidedly wants his
eyes opened for him, and they'll be opened
some day by a woman of a different type
from his beautified Alice.

VOL. I. 'c

Well, well  It matters little. The only
question Is, whether It Is possible to save
a man from such suffering, or desirable to
save him If It were possible. We must all
live and learn. But the man who theoretically
places woman on such a high pedestal
as Freshfield does, Is sure to find out his
mistake. Woman was never meant for a
pedestal. She Is out of our reach there ;
we want her In our arms. Consequently
madam has to be pulled down and show
her feet of clay. If we could only be content
to worship them from a distance, or
keep them under a glass-shade, how long
they would last. But I mustn't forget my
promise to the poor child, who tumbled so
unmistakably from her little pedestal last
night.'

So saying he enclosed a bill for two
hundred dollars In an envelope, addressed
to Miss Harcourt, and strolled off to the
theatre, as if he had never done a kind
action in his life. He searched eagerly

- oj

there for Jack Neville, but he was nowhere
to be seen.

'Jack Neville !' exclaimed an old Chicago
man, who knew everything and everybody.
You wont meet him here to-night, my boy.
He's levanted to the South again ; went off
like a shot directly he heard a rumour that
that old black-leg Macpherson was in the
town.'

And quite right of him too said another
voice. ' Neville's burnt his fingers once in
the company of Sandie Macpherson, and the
less he's seen with him in the future the
better.'

Well, he needn't have been in such a
blazing hurry with respect to Sandie this
time,' interposed a third speaker, ' for the
old man wasn't twenty-four hours in the
town, and only passed through on his way
from New York.'

Is he gone again ? ' demanded Nelson
Cole.

That is so, sir. Sandie Macpherson is

6 Phyllis.

not the man to stay where he isn't sure of a
welcome, and he is too well known to our
force to be able to walk the streets of Chicago
with any comfort by daylight. So he showed
his sense by making tracks, sir, as soon as
his business with us was concluded.'

It is as well, perhaps, for him that he
has,' replied Nelson Cole ; and the subject
was dropped amongst them. A few days
after, a lurking desire to learn Stephanie
Harcourt's plans, and to assure her that
Chicago was delivered from the presence
of her enemy, led him again to the actress's
door, where he was met by Miss Vavasour
alone.

Oh, Mr Cole ! ' she exclaimed, ' I have
been longing to see you, or to leave your
address that I might deliver Stephanie's
thanks to you for your goodness and generosity.'


She received my letter, then ? '

Indeed, she did. It conveyed new life to
her. She left Chicago the very next day ! '

*That I cannot tell you, for I do not
know myself. I agreed with Stephanie,
that since her desire is to lose herself ina
new name and a new existence, that it
was best no one should share the secret.
Oh ! she has suffered terribly, sir ; her
young life has been a chapter of horrors.
You have done a most benevolent action
in aiding her to escape from its consequences
! '

I hope she may escape them, but I
question if it is possible. Anyway, she is
safely out of the city, and has friends, I
suppose, to go to ? '

Yes, sir ; she has connections, I believe,
on the mother's side, with Avhom she can
find a refuge. But I must not forget the
packet she left for you.'

She went to a drawer and produced
thence a tiny parcel tied up in paper, and
directed to himself. He opened it. It contained

an ordinary wedding-ring, and these
words : 

Dear Friend,  I am too poor to give
you anything but my thanks. But keep
this! It was my mother's wedding-ring.
It is my best possession. It will remind
you sometimes that I was not ungrateful
for your goodness. Stephanie.'

Rubbish !' exclaimed Nelson Cole roughly ;
what did the girl mean by leaving me this ?
What does she suppose I can want with her
mother's wedding-ring ? '

It was all she had, sir,' said Miss Vavasor
mildly ; * and she was very grateful for
your kindness to her.'

Stuff and nonsense ! You shouldn't have
allowed it. Can't you send it back to her ? '

I do not know her address.'

She will write to you.'

I do not think so. I think she has gone
away from us for ever.'

Well, I suppose I must keep it ; but it

was an absurd idea on the girl's part. What
the d  1 am I to do with somebody else's
wedding-ring ? '

He shoved it awkwardly in his waistcoat
pocket as he spoke, and having wished Miss
Vavasour good-day, turned into the street
aoain. He would not have confessed the
fact to himself, nor any other control for the
world ; but he felt quite disappointed to find
that Stephanie Harcourt had left Chicago
without wishing him good-bye, or leaving
any trace of her destination.

And when he reached home he transferred
the little scrap of paper and the old wedding-ring
carefully to a safe corner of his dispatch
box, where they could neither be discovered
nor disturbed.

And then Nelson Cole went on his way
through the busy hard-working world, and
except for an occasional remembrance that
made him smile rather than sigh, he forgot
all about his adventure with the little actress
in the city of Chicago.

T was a bright, beautiful afternoon
in the height of summer  not a
miserable, humbugging, makeshift
for a summer, such as we have had for the
last ten years, but a real, good, old-fashioned
one, like those that Adam and Eve enjoyed
in Paradise, before rain and cold joined
league with the other curses of mankind
to come out of their proper season. This
had been and was still a glorious time,
when all the fragrant essences of grass and
herbs were drawn out by the hot sun, and
perfumed the land long after he had sunk
to rest, when the tangled blossoms rioted

over the flower-beds In the profusion of
their bearing, and the branches of the fruit
trees and bushes, over-weighted, hung to
the ground, and the earth was warm and
dry from early morn to dewy eve.

The noble acacias on the lawn of Blue
Mount formed leafy bowers of themselves,
and under the shade of one of them, in her
ordinary dress, without fear of the exposure,
sat Mrs Freshfield knitting. Mrs Fresh-field
was always knitting. No one ever
encountered her sitting or standing on a
week-day without a huge ball of worsted
and two or four large wooden pins in her
hands. What she manufactured, or what
became of the products of her labour, remained
a mystery. The shelves of her
mahogany wardrobe where piled with pounds
of wool of various colours, which gradually
became drawn into the general web and
disappeared, to be replaced by more ; but
where it went to in the form of stitches
Mrs Freshfield seemed unable to account

for. Her daughter Laura declared she made
petticoats for old sinners, who sold them as
fast as they received them, so that each
pensioner wore out about half-a-dozen In
the course of twelve months. But Mrs Fresh-field
was strictly pious, and in the habit of
sternly repressing Laura's profane jests.
She had not been a young woman when
she married her late husband, John Fresh-field,
the Sheffield merchant, who bought
Blue Mount and its surroundings as a retreat
for his old age. Mrs Freshfield had
been extremely pious even in those days,
but her piety had not prevented her marrying
the Sheffield merchant on account of
his money.

Surely we have seen such things in the
world before. A golden bait is almost as
Irresistible to the elect as to the ungodly 
only they call their temptation by a different
name. Mrs Freshfield thought that
Mr Freshfield's riches would prove such a
snare to him that he would require a helpmeet

like herself to counteract their evil
influence. She married him to convert him
(so she said), but she never succeeded in
doing so, for he died as hardened an old
sinner as he had lived, begging his physician
with his last breath to keep his wife and her
cant out of his room. Thus deprived of
the triumph of making a saint of her husband,
i\Irs Freshfield turned her attention
to her children. There were two of them
Bernard and Laura, and although they
were young people who dared to think for
themselves in certain matters, they had certainly
so far profited by their mother's training,
that the young man was pure and
refined and religious in his ideas to a degree,
extraordinary in this age of free thought and
unbridled actions ; and the girl, though lighthearted
and full of fun, was as delicate and
modest as any English girl could be.

Mrs Freshfield was an old woman. She
had numbered nearly forty years when Bernard
was born to her, and he was now past

eight-and-twenty, and from the first she
had always destined this unlooked-for blessing
to the ministry of the church. Bernard
had been brought up from an infant with the
knowledge that he was to be a parson, and
a parson he had consequently become. His
father had left him ample means, and he had
no need to work ; but it was his mother's
wish, and he never dreamt of disputing it.
Perhaps he sometimes regretted that he had
yielded so easily ; he had his own thoughts
and ideas about a parsons duty, and they
clashed occasionally with the rules set down
for him ; but, if so, he did not express his
regrets openly, but laboured as faithfully
as he could for the good of the inhabitants
of Bluemere.

He did not live with his mother. On the
occasion of his marriage he had taken a
smaller but very pretty house about half-a-mile
from the Mount, and he continued to
occupy it and to keep a kennel of sporting
dogs, which shocked Mrs Freshfield  and a

couple of hunters, which horrified her still
more. Indeed, the greatest calamities of
her life were, that Bernard luojild wear a
velveteen coat in the mornings and would
not give up smoking. To be a smoking,
hunting, shooting parson in a velveteen coat
seemed, in poor Mrs Freshfield's narrow
mind, very much like selling oneself to the
devil ; but still Bernard was a o-ood son to
her, and she was a o-ood mother to him,
and so they managed to get on together,
notwithstanding that on some points he
would have his own way. A mother must
not hope to exercise any influence but that
of love over a son of eight-and-twenty, who
possesses a couple of thousand a-year in
his own right, and will come into all her
property when she dies. But Bernard had
always been ]airs Freshfield's favourite child,
and as she watched him coming across the
lawn to her that afternoon, the old lady's
eyes glistened and her hands trembled with
the pleasure of seeing him again. For Laura

was absent too, and she had the prospect
of having the conversation with him all to
herself, a pleasure she seldom enjoyed.

Bernard came up to his mother and greeted
her affectionately. This young fellow, already
a widower at eight-and-twenty, had
a heart brimming over with love for all
who loved him. He was not particularly
good-looking  no one would have called
him an Antonius or a Hercules, but he
had a straight athletic figure  a kind, honest
face, and blue eyes that were peculiarly
tender and earnest In their expression. His
widowhood had not sat very heavily upon
his spirits, and he had never pretended it
had done so ; but It had left a quiet subdued
demeanour behind It, that was particularly
noticeable when he was alone. Then he
often sighed and heavily not because his
bereavement had bereaved him so much,
but because It had bereaved him so lltde.
He sighed for himself, because he seemed
to have gained something where he had

really lost, and it made him realise how
little he had ever possessed. He was a
strange young man, as these pages will
show ; but he was honest to himself withal.

Bernard, my dear,' said ]airs Freshfield,
with some little show of excitement, ' we are
to have guests tomorrow. The Muck-keeps
have been in London for a month,
and are coming to spend a few weeks at
Blue Mount before they return to Scotland.' '

Indeed, mother ! I hope you'll feed them
up well. They look as if they needed it 
or at all events Miss Janet does.'

Now, Bernard, my dear, I call that a
very unkind speech on your part, and quite
unbefitting your calling. It would lead one
to think that )'0u value your friends on
account of their money or money's worth.
If the Misses Muckheep  notwithstanding
their good old blood  are not as wealthy
as ourselves, it is their misfortune and not
their fault.'

Mrs Freshfield delivered the phrase

good old blood ' with an unctuous smack,
for, be it known, this very pious lady, who
professed to despise the wealth of which
she had a superfluity, cherished an overwhelming
weakness for * blood,' which was
the only thing money could not buy for her,
and would have given much to see her
son contract a second alliance with some
woman of ' family.'

But the Reverend Bernard did not seem
to notice the maternal rebuke. His ear
had been caught by another sentence.

I wish, mother he said, as he took a
seat beside her, ' that you would not speak
of everything as either befitting or unbefitting
my " calling The term is one that
grates upon me. It insinuates that I had
a spiritual call to undertake the work of a
minister, and you know that I had no such
thing. I became a parson because you urged
me to the step, and wished to keep me by
your side, and I entered the profession with
far too little sense of its responsibilities.'

Bernard, you don't mean to tell me that
you regret it ? ' exclaimed Mrs Freshfield
with horror.

No, dear mother, I do not ! Had I to
choose over again, I might draw back from
undertaking so much more than I feel myself
able to perform ; but as the duty has been
pressed upon me, I will discharge it as faithfully
as I can. Only don't try to make
me out better than I am. Let me work
amongst my sick and suffering people in
my own way, and comfort them with a
friend s sympathy and advice, but don't set
me up as an example of piety and virtue,
because that you know I am not.'

Bernard ! I am sure that }'ou are all
that is best and most praiseworthy. Mrs
Pinner was saying, only the other day, that
the life you lead is an example to any
young man.'

I am much obliged to Mrs Pinner for
her opinion, but I should hardly think that
her experience enhanced the value of her

VOL. I. D

recommendation, and I don't think that a
parson should be set up as a little oracle
amongst his people. It is the truth he
preaches that should be worshipped  not
himself. What, am I not a man like all
the rest of them ? '

Oh, Bernard, my dear, don't say that,'
murmured his mother deprecatingly.

A man with all the tastes and feelings
of a man,' he went on, ' and with no notion
that I sin in indulging any taste that
is not contrary to law. If hunting and
shooting and dancing and smoking are sinful,
then they are sinful for everybody as
well as for me, and we must all renounce
them as evil habits. But If they are innocent
for my parishioners, then they are
equally innocent for myself. And yet I
know I shock you, my dear mother, and
many other estimable people by these worldly
proclivities of mine, and you think I can
neither go to heaven myself, nor teach my
people the way there, unless I systematically

look as if I were bound for the
other place ! '

Oh, my dear Bernard, but then your
sacred calling  '

There you go again, mother ! my '' calling,"
' said Bernard, as he rose to his feet
and walked up and down the grass. ' I
tell you if anybody "called" me to the
ministry, it was yourself, and I am not
going to make what may prove a harmless
matter into a very evil one, by living a
life false to myself and to my own notions
of right, out of prejudice to the opinions
of the world.'

Well, well, my dear boy, pray sit down
again and don't excite yourself in this needless
manner. I don't know what I can
have said to raise such a discussion. But
the fact is, Bernard, the house is lonely
to you since your great misfortune, and
you don't care to stay at home as you
ought to do. When are you going to dispel
the shadow, my son, and brighten your





home again. It seems quite unnatural, not
to say wrong, to me, that a minister should
remain unmarried ? '

Why so ? '

But to this plain question Mrs Freshfield
seemed puzzled to find an answer.

I can tell you, mother. . Because you
think the vows a man makes to heaven
are weaker than those he makes to a
woman, and that though the latter may
keep him in the straight and narrow path,
he is not to be trusted to remain faithful
to the former.'

My dear Bernard, you really do say such
things.'

I only put your thoughts into words.
It was with that idea that you threw me
into the society of poor Alice, and persuaded
me she was breaking her heart on
my account, until I thought it was my duty
to marry the girl, and tell the first lie that
had ever passed my lips before God's altar.'

Bernard, Bernard, it shocks me beyond

measure to hear you speak in this manner,
and of such a dear, good loving wife as she
made you too.'

I say nothing against her, poor girl ; God
forbid I should. But as far as I was concerned,
that marriage was a blasphemy and
a sacrilege  a blasphemy against love and
a sacrilege of the highest human sacrament
that God designed for the regeneration of
mankind.'

Well, I can't say I follow you, my dear.
She was a sweet girl, and you made her an
excellent husband, and what more could
anybody desire ? '

Bernard's quiet eyes were fixed upon
the sky, glowing with the first glories of
sunset.

I don't know if she felt the void,' he
said, in a low voice, ' but I wanted  completion.'


Oh dear ! oh dear ! ' exclaimed Mrs
Freshfield, dropping stitches by the dozen
in her perplexity. ' I don't understand all

these new-fangled terms, but I know what
/ want, Bernard, and that is to see you
happily settled again, and my little grandchildren
toddling about my knees, before
I am called home to join your father.'

Dear old mother,' replied the young man
affectionately, as he laid his hand upon hers,
'it is a very natural wish, and I hope it
may be gratified. But would not Laura
do as well for the agent of such happiness
as myself?'

Lattra I ' ejaculated Mrs Freshfield emphatically.
' No  not at all. In the first
place, Laura's children could never be the
same to me as yours, Bernard. They would
not be Freshfields ; and in the second, a
girl can't marry when she chooses, and a
man can.'

Oh, that is only a mother's partiality,'
laughed her son, ' and I am afraid the
marriageable young ladies of Bluemere would
not be disposed to record your assertion.'

Nonsense, Bernard ! There are a dozen

in Bluemere alone who would jump at
you

Let me hear the roll-call, mother. Who
knows but what I might take a facto
one or two of them

Mrs Freshfield bridled with importance.
She really thought her son was beginning
to look at the matter in a practical light.

'Well, my dear, there is Mrs Norman
She is not older than yourself, and her
father's cousin is the Earl of Marlborough ! '

Mrs Norman ! The pretty widow at
Willow Cottage ? Xo, no. mother, she
paints ! '

Only on occasions, Bernard ; and you
could soon break her oft" that.'

She wont do, I tell you. It is of no
use.'

Miss Surrender. You have often remarked
how handsome she is.'

The sorrowful lady with a secret in
her life ? Mrs Bernard Freshfield's former
life must contain no secrets, mother. It

must be open to inspection as the light
of day.'

You can have no such objection to make
to Nellie Palmer.'

Pretty little, timid, bashful Nellie. I
am afraid she's too shy for me. Those
girls who can never look you straight in
the face are invariably flirts when your
back is turned.'

Annie Warren, then, who was our poor
Alice's bosom friend, and nursed her like
a sister in her last illness, Her chief pleasure
lies in the parish work, Bernard, and
I am sure she loves you already.'

And for that very reason I would never
make her my wife. Dear little charitable
Bluemere would say at once that we had
settled the matter over Alice's dying bed.
No, mother, none of these women will do
to fill the vacant place, and I have only
been having a little pleasantry with you in
even talking of them. I shall never marry
again. I feel sure of it, because I see no

chance of meeting the woman whom I could
love.'

Not if you continue to be so fastidious,'
replied his mother, vexed at finding he had
only been In jest. 'But I suppose we may
depend upon seeing you at dinner tomorrow
to welcome our guests. You know what
a dear, good creature Miss Muckheep Is,
and what a hearty Interest she takes In
everything that concerns your calling.'

Yes, yes,' cried Bernard hastily, as he
jumped to his feet. ' If you wish It, I
will be here.'

Of course I wish It, and Bella too ;
such a sweet, unaffected girl, without the
least pride about her, although her father,
the Laird of Muckheep, can trace his ancestors
back to the time of the PIcts and
Scots.'

Just so, when they were a party of
untamed savages, and wore nothing but
skins, if so much. I hope Miss Bella Is
a little more civilised than she was on the

occasion of her last visit here, for I remember
thinking her a terrible Goth.'

My dear Bernard, her aunt writes me
word that she is everything that is most
charming, and imbued with the deepest
religious feeling.'

She will be an excellent companion for
Laura, then, who is certainly not imbued
with too much. I don't believe the monkey
would ever come to church except for the
pleasure of seeing me ! '

And you encourage her in it, Bernard ;
deeply as I regret to say it, Laura would
certainly be more attentive to her religious
duties if you spoke with more severity
against her neglect of them.'

And make the duties as hateful in her
eyes as I should become myself. Would
you have me set up as an ogre or janitor
to my only sister, instead of a loving friend ?
No, mother, I cannot do it. Let Laura
follow her own inclinations. An unwilling
sacrifice can never be acceptable.'

*Well, my dear, I cannot help thinking
you are far too lax in your ideas, and I
wish you had a dear, good partner to consult
with you on all these knotty points.'

Good-bye, mother, you shall see me at
dinner to-morrow exclaimed Bernard, ashe
turned away and walked rapidly across
the lawn, fearful lest another minute's conversation
might renew the vexed question
of a second wife.

S he retraced his steps towards
Briarwood (as his own house
was called), followed by a couple
of setters and a greyhound, his face was
more thoughtful than usual. For notwithstanding
Mrs Freshfield's doubts and his
own modesty, this young man felt more
deeply than he cared to acknowledge the
responsibilities of the post he had undertaken.
He earnestly desired to show a
good example to the people under his
charge, and to advise them profitably on
the best means of regulating their lives ;
but the difficulty with Bernard Freshfield

was to make up his own mind as to which
was the best example and the best way.
He knew, of course, that a pure and charitable
and useful life was obligatory on all
who called themselves Christians ; but it
was in the smaller matters, in the petty
laws laid down by custom, the rules observed
because everybody else observes
them, the thousand and one fretting obligations
imposed upon men by disciplinarians,
lest a ' brother should offend,' that Bernard
Freshfield hesitated to do more than tell
his parishioners to judge for themselves. V
had seen certain parsons, in their endeavours
to drive men like a flock of sheep to heaven,
afraid to dance or sing, or join in merriment
of any kind, and he knew how futile those endeavours
had proved, to do more than make
their fellow-creatures hypocrites. He had
watched these ministers, setting themselves
up as gods amongst the people, and arrogating
to themselves the power they deprecated
in those of another faith, of refusing comm

union, or marriage, or burial to the persons
whom they, in their finite wisdom, deemed
unworthy of such privileges. And he had
marked how their refusals had hardened the
hearts they should have melted, and drawn
down curses on their own heads instead of
blessings.

He had seen parsons who frowned openly
with the world at the wife's adultery, the
maid-servant's seduction, the apprentice's
theft ; pass over (also with the world) the
master's dishonest dealing, the gentleman's
fornication, the fast woman's coquetry, and
the mistress's ill temper, because they were
unrecognised sins, and they did not feel they
had any right to meddle with them. Bernard
Freshfield did not play parson on this
wise. Where he saw what appeared to him
to be wrong, he spoke openly, whether it
was to poor little Jack with a dirty head,
playing at pitch - and - toss with a stolen
halfpenny on Sunday, instead of going to
school ; or to the squire's son, lounging

o

about his father's park on the same day, with
bloodshot eyes and aching head, cheerful
reminiscences of his debauch of the night before
; and whatever fault Bernard found himself
called upon to tackle, he always had a
pleasant way of making the offender understand
that if he had not committed the same
sin himself, he most likely would have done
so under similar circumstances, until the
humbled heart felt that, given the resolution
and the opportunity, it might rise to be as
high as the parson himself. Consequently our
hero was a universal favourite in Bluemere.
The dogs naturally adored him, because he
was their veterinary surgeon, as well as
their friend, and the little children followed
suit  for the love of babies and animals cannot
be separated. The old men and women
regarded him almost as a son ; the married
couples made him their confidant and arbitrator
in all their disputes ; the youths
voted him the jolliest of companions, and,
as for the girls, if one or two of them in that

peaceful village of Bluemere had gone a
step too far, and raised their hopes to a
vested partnership In Briarwood House,
and If their parson knew it, and felt a little
flattered by their preference, what matter?
He was but a man, as he said himself, and
a young man after all, and the blood of youth
runs as hotly In the veins of a parson as in
those of an officer In the dragoons. The
absurdity Is, to suppose, that, by forcing a
man into a particular profession, you can
change his nature, and, with Impunity, refuse
him those licences which the world
freely allows to another, and the consequence
of which is, that the majority of our English
parsons  let those deny the assertion who
can disprove It  who have adopted the
church, just as soldiers adopt the army,
for a living, are only so many more proofs
of the power the world's opinion has to
turn a man, otherwise honourable, into a 
living lie.

Bernard's mind was occupied with some

such thoughts, wondering what there existed
in himself, different from other men, that he
should have been elected to walk as a shining
light amongst them, when his attention was
arrested by the mention of his own name.

!\lr Freshfield,' called a voice as he passed
by, ' I wish you would come in and speak
to me for a few minutes. I tried so hard to
catch you after service last Sunday, but you
were too quick for me. It seems an age
since you gave me a call.'

Bernard turned at once, and, with his
usual courtesy, greeted a tall, angular, prim-looking
old lady, who, with a shawl pinned
round her head, was talking to him over
a low hedge of French laurels. It was the
same who had told his mother that the life
he led was an example to all young men.

'Certainly, i\Irs Pinner, I will come in if
it will give you any pleasure. No, don't
let my dogs through the gate. They will
make havoc in your pretty little garden,
and they are used to wait for mee outside.'

VOL. I. E

Is there anything that I can do for you?'
he continued, as he followed her into a
sitting-room on the ground floor.

Oh ! I have a thousand things to consult
you about relating to the parish, Mr Fresh-field,
but of course this is not the time. It
is past five o'clock, and you must be going
home to your dinner.'

Never mind my dinner if you require my
services,' he replied good-naturedly.

Now that is so like you, Mr Freshfield,
never thinking of yourself  but, no ! I weill
not be so selfish  what I chiefly wanted to
ask you was, if you could spare us any evening
this week for just a muffin and a cup
of tea, you know, and a little quiet conversation.
It would be such a privilege  and
I am particularly desirous to introduce you
to my niece.'

Now, if there was one phase of parish
life which poor Bernard particularly detested
above another, it was the muffin and
cup of tea Mrs Pinner alluded to, which

generally took him away from his late
dinner, and entirely deprived him of the
postprandial pipe. But it was one of the
little mortifications to which he made it a
rule to subject himself, holding the opinion
that no man is fit to guide others who is
not master of his own appetites, and that
to give up our inclinations for the sake of
our fellow-creatures is one of the highest
phases of love. So he answered readily,
if not cheerfully, 

I will accept your hospitality with pleasure,
Mrs Pinner  if you cannot transact
business with me as well in the morning.
But I was not aware you had a niece  '

Well, she is not a niece, Mr Freshfield.
I was wrong to call her so  she is a sort
of cousin on the mother's side, and very
distantly connected ; but she has been lately
left an orphan, poor thing, so I asked her
to stay with me for a few months, though
I'm afraid she will be obliged to earn her
own living when they are ended. But I

think I can trace a providence in her coming
to me. She has been very carelessly
brought up, and it would be a blessed thing,
wouldn't it, Mr Freshfield, if we could guide
her feet into the right way before she left
us again ? '

\ Bernard, who hated all cant, took no
notice of Mrs Pinner's pious hope.

Is your cousin young ? '

Yes. Quite a girl ; but with the strangest
ideas. She does not seem as if she could
make enough of the country, and would
idle all her time away if I allowed it.'

Let her idle it away, Mrs Pinner. I
daresay her heart is sore from her late
losses. This beautiful country In this beautiful
weather will speak surer peace to her
than we could do in any amount of words.'

But it seems so sinful to me, Mr Fresh-field,
to see a strong, hearty girl doing
nothing day after day, when there is more
parish work than there are hands to doit
with.'

Do you think so ? I think Bluemere
is admirably looked after. Sometimes I
say too well looked after, particularly when
I find that Miss Warren has countermanded
half the orders that I have given
for the relief of my parishioners.'

Ah, Miss Warren ; but see how she
works, Mr Freshfield, and what a head
she has got. I always call her your right
hand. And then she is so devoted to
your Interests, and she is afraid the old
people impose on your good nature and
get more relief from you than they really
require. I am sure Miss Warren Is quite
an example  I often say so, and would
make a model clergyman's wife.'

She'd better go to the next parish, then,*
remarked Bernard curtly. ' I know the
new rector who has just been appointed
there is a bachelor.'

Oh, Mr Freshfield, you are always full
of your fun ; but you know that Blue-mere
would be quite lost without Miss

Warren. And she was kind enough to
offer to introduce Miss Moss to the Sunday
school, but I am sorry to say she
refused

Is Miss Moss your cousin ?'

Yes. And it's such things I want you
to talk to her about, Mr Freshfield, for
her notions of religion quite shock me.
Only think  she wouldn't go to church
with me last Sunday, but sat all day in
the garden reading some frivolous story.
I was ashamed that my servant should
see such a thing. And she doesn't seem
to have any more knowledge of the Scriptures
than a heathen.'

And do you think no one can be religious
without knowing the Scriptures, Mrs
Pinner?'

Well, of course, I know there are some
who have been taught as it were of heaven
itself ; but Phyllida appears to be as ignorant
as a baby.'

Well, I must come and make the acquaintance

of your fair barbarian ; but please
don't present me to her in the guise of
a schoolmaster, or we shall make no way
at all. Let me talk to Miss Moss after
my own fashion, and I daresay we shall
come to an understanding by-and-by.'

I am sure you are only too good to
take the trouble, ]mr Freshfield. Shall we
say Thursday for our little cup of tea ? And
I don't think Til tell Phyllida that you're
coming, for she seems to dislike the sight
of strangers so, that, ten to one, she may
run out of the house just to spite fine.'

You seem to have got a bargain on your
hands,' said Bernard, laughing, as he rose to
take his leave. * I suppose, as I do not see
her, that Miss Moss is not indoors at
present.'

No, she disappeared after our early dinner
in her strange fashion, and I haven't set
eyes on her since. I'm sure It's very good
of you to promise to come to us, Mr Fresh-field,
and we shall look forward to it with

pleasure. Quite alone, you know  a muffin
and a cup of tea  next Thursday at seven
thank you so much.'

And with Mrs Pinner's murmured sentences
pursuing him like buzzing flies,
Bernard passed down the garden path, and,
whistling to his dogs, took his way to
Briarwood. He had intended to make two
or three calls on the road ; but as he looked
at his watch he was surprised to see how
long Mrs Pinner's conversation had detained
him, and determined to take a short cut
home by the fields instead. His house of
Briarwood was built upon a hill, and the
land surrounding it was his own property.
Bernard cleared a high fence, and making
his way through some low brushwood which
he was keeping as a pheasant preserve,
entered a grove of larches which formed a
foreground to his residence. He was pacing
the narrow path with his eyes downcast and
his thoughts far away, when he was startled
by hearing a low cry of fear, followed by

/o

a hurried exclamation. Bernard looked up.
His three dogs were leaping violently, and,
as it would seem, with murderous intent,
against the slight figure of a girl, dressed in
black, who held something to her breast with
one hand, whilst with the other she attempted
to ward off the boisterous attacks
of the excited animals. Bernard whistled to
them, and then finding they did not instantly
obey him, he sprang forward and
belaboured them well with the stout stick
he carried in his hand. But here the girl
interposed to save her assailants from further
punishment.

Oh, don't beat them  don't beat them ! '
she cried. * They didn't mean to hurt me,
the beautiful creatures, only I was so afraid
they would kill my lite kitten.' And she
displayed to him a fluffy white and tabby
creature with pale blue eyes, of a few weeks
old, who was still spitting and scratching
with all its puny might, and clinging to the
sleeve of her dress.

Go to heel ! ' exclaimed Bernard In a
voice of thunder to his conscience-stricken
hounds, who slunk behind him, and then
he took off his hat to the stranger, and
trusted that her favourite was not hurt.

Oh no, they didn't touch her ; I was
only afraid they would. Poor things,' she
said pityingly, ' how unhappy they look !
Do pat them and speak kindly to them
again.'

I had better not,' replied Bernard. ' At
all events until the temptation to transgress
is out of their reach. They are apt to
presume upon indulgence. You love animals
I see,' he added with a smile ; for he
loved them so well himself he felt affinity
with all who shared his tastes.

Very much  particularly dogs ! they are
so faithful and affectionate. I like them
ever so much better than I do men and
women.'

Bernard laughed.

You think me foolish, perhaps, or wrong,

as Mrs Pinner does,  she says It Is sinful
to waste time and food on animals when
there are so many poor people starving and
in want of help.'

If we neglected our fellow-creatures to
lavish time and substance upon animals,
I should feel Inclined to agree with Mrs
Pinner ; but It may not He within the range
of our duties to attend to poor people, and
these dumb creatures are certainly confided
to our care. It would be wicked to neglect
them. But from, what you say, I presume
I have the pleasure of speaking to Mrs
Pinner's niece.'

Yes ; I am Phyllida Moss. And do
you, then, know my cousin Pinner ? '
Very well, indeed ! '

I am glad of that. Then perhaps she
will not think It wronor of me to have
spoken to you  cousin Pinner thinks everything
wrong. She says she is going to
bring the clergyman of the parish to talk
to me about my doings.'

'Indeed! Have you been very naughty,
then ? '

I can't say. I didn't go to church last
Sunday  that is what bothered her.'

Don't you Hke going to church ? '

Not much ; it's all so prim and stiff, and
the sermons make me sleepy. I like going
out by myself on the hill-side and sitting
on the grass and thinking better. I put
my head right down in the grass and no
one knows, who doesn't do that, what wonderful
sights and sounds there are to be heard
and seen there. The wee wee flowers, no
bigger than a pin's head, like little red and
blue stars with golden eyes that grow down
amongst the blades ; and then the insects
that talk to one another, and carry their
food about and build their snug houses,
for all the world as well as if they were
giants. And I think you know that to lie
and listen to all this and think about it,
and how it came to pass, does one more
good than sitting for two hours within four

walls and hearing a lot of things you don't
care about

And so do I, a thousand times over,' said
Bernard heartily. ' And you have never
seen the parson of Bluemere yet, then, Miss
Moss ? '

No, and I reckon I don't want to,
either.'

'Why not?'

Oh, because cousin Pinner thinks so
much of him ; it frightens me. You see I
haven't been brought up amongst parsons
myself. 1 am not good, it's no use denying
it ; and what's more, I don't feel as if 1 ever
should be.'

Why should you say that ? I am sure
your impulses are good, even from the few
words we have exchanged with one another


I don't feel good. My life's been all
trouble and misfortune, and that makes one
hard. But it's nonsense for me to talk like
this to a stranger ! '

I wish you wouldn't look on me as a
stranger. I know Mrs Pinner so well, that
it is only natural I should know you also.'

You won't tell the parson ? ' she said,
with an arch glance.

As Bernard Freshfield met her eyes, he
thought  and truly  that he had never seen
so lovely a woman before.

She was dressed exceedingly plain in a
suit of deep black, but her bronze-coloured
hair was tucked up in profusion under her
plain straw hat, beneath the brim of which
gleamed at him large, soft, long eyes of the
clearest brown, which reminded Bernard
somehow of the eyes of his favourite setter
Rose. Her nose was straight; her chin
pointed ; her mouth a perfect bow ; and her
dark lashes lay on her cheek like a fringe
of silk. It was a child-like face without
being an innocent one  that is to say, it
had an open confiding expression, and yet
the languid eyes showed that the girl had
passed through the experience of this world,

and known its sorrow. When Bernard
Freshfielai came to know Phyllida Moss
more intimately, he found she was a strange
mixture of child and woman : of careless
mirth and thoughtful despondency ; but in
the moment of their first introduction, he only
thought her as she stood there conversing
as freely with him as if they had been acquainted
all their lives, with the little kitten
clinging to her breast  simply charming.

And with each sentence she uttered, she
charmed him more.

Her last words almost upset his gravity,
but he managed to reply that he would
not tell the parson.

Well, then, I think long prayers and
sighs and groans and texts, and all that
sort of thing, you know, nonsense. I
knew a man once,' with a shudder, ' oh,
the very worst man I ever knew, and when
it suited his purpose not to lie and gamble
and cheat, he used to go to prayers instead,
and pretend to be pious, and it worked

with some folks, I suppose ; but It sickened
me, and that's the truth, and I've never felt
as though I could say a prayer since.'

Mrs Pinner tells me you have lost your
father and mother. Were they good parents
to you ? '

My mother was  an angel ! and she's one
now, I know. Nothing could knock that
out of me.'

Doubtless she Is. And you used to tell
her all your troubles, I daresay.'

The tears rushed to Phylllda's brown eyes.

Ah, I used ! God bless her ! and she
was never weary of listening, though she
had enough of her own, poor soul ! '

And It comforted you to go to her '. '

Of course It did. Who can comfort one
like a mother ? '

But she wouldn't have cared for your
confidence If It hadn't been true, If you
had pretended to be In trouble when you
weren't really so ! '

Well  no  how should she ? '

The church is like your mother, Miss
Moss, and her children's prayers are their
confidences. Whilst you have nothing to
tell her, I say keep away, and don't insult
her by a pretence of requiring her consolations.'


There was a pause between them for a
moment, and then Phyllida inquired, 

Are you the parson ? '

I am ; but don't let that fact frighten
you. You see I am not very formidable.'

Oh no ; only perhaps I have said things
I shouldn't.'

Not at all. There is no good in a
parson, unless you can speak your mind
to him.'

And do you think my mind is very
wrong ? '

I think you have had some great trouble,
and it has hardened you.'

Oh, no, no,' commenced the girl vehemently,
' it has not hardened me ! I love
the flowers and the birds and trees more

VOL. I. F

than I can tell you, and the little children and
the animals, and I love to get out amongst
them and try to fancy myself a child once
more, and to begin life over again with them.
That is what I want, sir, to begin life
over again, to forget all that has gone
before ; to wipe it oat as if it had never
been, and to feel a girl again with the birds
and flowers, a girl as I used to do before
my mother died,' she said in a low wailing
voice.

Bernard felt very paternal, he often did
feel paternal when pretty girls bestowed
their confidences on him.

My poor child,' he replied, * I understand
you so well ; I can sympathise with every
word you have said. I too have known
trouble, Miss Moss, very heavy trouble,
not only from domestic loss, but from doubts
and fears upon religious matters, similar to
if not identical with your own. Will you
therefore try and look upon me not only
as a friend, but as a fellow-searcher after

o

truth, and help me with your confidences
as I will help you, if possible, with my
experience.'

But I'm not fit to be your friend, Mr
Freshfield  the friend of a parson. You
don't know how careless I am. Mrs Pinner
calls me a perfect heathen.'

Child, you don't know of what you are
talking. It is far more likely that the
parson is not fit to be friends with you.
But please speak of me by any name but
that ; I do not like it. I would rather the
people of Bluemere thought of me only as
their friend.'

As a friend, then, sir, good evening.
Kitty and I must be going homewards, or
Mrs Pinner will have reason to think that
we are lost.'

Good-night, my child ! Depend on it,
it is not for nothing that we have been
led to meet each other in this fantastic
manner, and that your lips have been unsealed
so freely to me. Good-night ;

It will not be long before we meet
again.'

And as Bernard Freshfield turned to
watch the graceful figure in black descending
the hill, cuddling the mewing kitten to
her breast, he felt a strange exhilaration, as
if a new interest had suddenly sprung up
in his uneventful life.

HE following morning Mrs Fresh-field
was considerably startled by
receiving a note from her son : 

My dear Mother,  Since you make a
point of my dining at Blue Mount to-day,
you must let me bring my friend Anderson
with me. He turned up unexpectedly at
Briarwood last night, and I cannot leave
him to spend the evening alone.  Yours
affectionately, Bernard

Now, Charles Anderson was an old college
chum of Bernard's, to whom he was deeply

attached. The young men had gone rather
different ways since starting in life, Anderson
having become deeply imbued whilst at
Oxford with High Church tendencies, which
had subsequently led him to the communion
of Rome. But Bernard and he had never
severed a link of their early friendship inconsequence,
and it was one of Mrs Fresh-field's
grievances against her son, that he
stoutly refused to relinquish any part of his
intercourse with Anderson. The old lady
was busy when the note arrived giving her
housekeeper sets of sundry linen sheets and
frilled pillow cases wherewith to furnish forth
the bed-chambers of the expected visitors ;
but this piece of intelligence was too dreadful
to be kept to herself, and she trotted
off at once to communicate it to her
daughter.

Laura ! ' she exclaimed, with the most
helpless, hopeless look upon her countenance
as she came upon that young lady copying
a profane love song,  can you conceive

it possible that Bernard proposes to bring
Mr Anderson to dinner here this evening ? '

Oh, I am glad,' replied Laura blithely,
Charlie Anderson is so entertaining, he'll
help to take the Miss Muckheeps off our
hands.'

Laura, I am surprised to hear you speak
in this manner of a person who has proved
himself to be so utterly without principle.
Have you forgotten that Mr Anderson is
a Roman Catholic  a Papist  an Apostate ? '

One name is enough for him at a time,
isn't it mamma ? But he is Bernard's friend,
you know, notwithstanding, and I cannot
see what his tenets have to do with his
being an amusing companion.'

Your poor brother is sadly mistaken in
keeping such a friend  it is unaccountable
in one who professes to hold the pure
Protestant faith as it was transmitted to us
by the glorious Luther. And to bring him
to my table too, and to sit down with Miss
Janet Muckheep. It is an insult.'

I am sure Bernard would much rather
dine at home mamma ; you know how he
hates a dinner party. If you object to
Mr Anderson's presence here, why not write
and tell Bernard so quietly, and let him
enjoy the evening with his friend at Briar-wood.'


No, Laura, my conscience would not
permit of that. Who knows with what
principles this poor lost soul might not
imbue your unhappy brother .- We must
make the sacrifice, if it is only to keep
Bernard under our own eyes.'

Well, mamma dear, let us make it then,
and say no more about it. Though I must
say you do not give dear Bernard credit
for much steadfastness of purpose or knowledge
of his own mind.'

My dear, I know human nature better
than you do, and I grieve to say that
some of your brother's doctrines are anything
but orthodox. However, we must
make the best of this annoyance, and

trust it may be overruled for good.' By
which Mrs Freshfield meant that she trusted
her conversation and that of Miss Muckheep
might have some influence in causing the
unhappy Mr Anderson to see the error of
his ways. She loved to throw a stone at all
Popery and Papists, and this Papist in particular,
 having made of himself as it were
a fearful example almost within their gates
but she had had no intention from the
beginning of being deprived in consequence
of the glory of seeing her son at the head
of her table. So she resigned her herself,
though not without many Protestant groans,
to the inevitable, only hoping that Miss
Janet Muckheep might not discover the
principles of her fellow guest. The expected
visitors arrived in the course of
the afternoon, and were received by Mrs
Freshfield much after the same fashion as
that in which Abraham entertained the two
angels. Indeed, if her real mind with regard
to Miss Janet Muckheep could have

been laid bare, it would have been seen
that Mrs Freshfield did regard her as very
little lower than the angelic host. She was
not a woman of strong mind or fixed principles,
notwithstanding her stock of platitudes,
and the old Scotchwoman's eternal
cant and dragging in of holy names and
holy subjects in every-day conversation, was
accepted by her as the very quintessence
of godliness.

Miss Janet Muckheep was the sister of
a man who was styled (or styled himself)
the Laird o' Muckheep, or The Muckheep,
and Miss Bella was his daughter and her
niece. The laird had married early in life,
and lost his wife within two years of the
marriage, since which bereavement he had
spent most of his time abroad. He had left
his infant daughter at Barrick-gallagas Castle,
as his feudal domains were grandly termed,
under the charge of his maiden sister, and
had only visited Scotland at intervals since.
Miss Janet affirmed that the laird's feelings

would not permit him to live on the spot
where he had buried his wife ; but less
partial judges were not surprised that he
should find pleasant habitations than the
bleak tumble-down castle of Barrick-gallagas
on its stony barren lands, and more cheerful
society than that of Miss Janet and Miss
Bella Muckheep. There, for five-and-twenty
years, therefore, had they lived together, until
the younger lady had developed into a fullgrown
woman, and the aunt had drilled
her into what she considered a perfect
model of lady-like deportment and religio
vous training. But at five-and-twenty Miss
Bella was still considered and treated by
her aunt as though she were a child, and
scarcely permitted to eat or drink, to walk,
or talk, without an injunction or a caution
from her duenna.

Miss Janet herself, now an old lady of
sixty, was the picture of a strong, active,
hard-featured Scotchwoman. She talked
such broad Scotch that it was difficult at

times to understand what she said, but she professed
to scorn to use the southern tongue as
though it would be a disgrace to her, and she
forbade her niece to do so either. She was
unpleasantly candid and outspoken, never taking
heed to any one's feelings, and her religious
doctrine was as hard and uncompromising
as her features. Yet with all Miss Janet's
cant and professions of Christian humility,
she had, like her friend Mrs Freshfield, one
great weakness, and that was for the family
blood. She could never say enough on the
subject of the Muckheeps and the feudal
homage paid to them in their native country
as lords of the soil. To hear Miss Janet
talk of Barrick-gallagas Castle and its surroundings,
one would have imagined that
she and her niece lived there in pomp and
luxury like two queens, surrounded by their
vassals. And one would have been rather
surprised, if led by chance to visit this remnant
of an age of princes, to find the two
queens supping on oatmeal porridge, and

waited on by a red - haired serving - maid
without shoes or stockings, whilst the wind
whistled through the ruined walls of their
castle, and the thistles grew up to the
tumble-down front door.

But Miss Janet did not consider she was
telling or acting a falsehood by thus upholding
the glory of the Muckheeps, and
Mrs Freshfield listening to her grand
accounts, felt her own blood quicken at
the thoughts of how her Bernard's wealth
entitled him to seek a match with this impoverished
daughter of a long line of
Scottish kings, and tried to hit upon the
best plan of introducing the matrimonial
alliance to his consideration. And to her
intense satisfaction Miss Muckheep's own
conversation seemed to land in the same
direction.

'Deed ! ' exclaimed the old Scotchwoman,
as she peered like a witch over her spectacles,
* it's weel you and I have met for a
crack this simmer, Mrs Fraichfield, for the

laird hinder talks of retaining to Barrack-gallants
In the fa' of the yair, and ance he
sets his fut on Scottish ground It's little
they'll let him or me lose sight of the
calrs-tle again.'

Your brother is coming home, Miss
Janet ? You don't mean to say so ? What
a delightful meeting Is In store for you !
How you must be looking forward to his
return ! '

'Ay. I don't say but we regard it with
as much pleasure as Is ret for pair sinful'
creatures to look forward to that which
may never come to pairs. But It Is noo
five airs sin' the laird has seen the lassie
their, and I'm thinking' he consee-ders It
time he should come hame and give hera
tocher and a laird for herself'. Bella 
held ! '

Which last mysterious sentence was not
as English ears might have Interpreted a
caution only, but a straightforward direction
to Miss Bella to hold up her head

9d

that young lady being in the habit of
stooping. Indeed, to judge from Miss
Janet's constant animadversions on her
deportment, it would be difficult to say
what portion of her niece's somewhat redundant
frame she did not misuse in the
using. Bella, a stout, full-faced, red-haired
young woman with blue eyes, high cheekbones,
and the colour of a peony, jerked
up her head, as a horse does when touched
on the curb, gave a kind of snort, and went
on with her work composedly. She had
been used to these admonitions since her
infancy, and never dreamed of resenting
them at five-and-twenty.

Oh, indeed ! yes,' replied Mrs Fresh-field
sympathisingly ; ' and I wonder that
Miss Bella has not found a husband for
herself before now. I am sure it must be
her own fault that she is still single, sweet
girl!'

Ech, woman ! ' returned Miss Janet, ' but
that's noo the way the lairds o' Muckheep

marry their daughters. I've brought up the
lassie in the fear o' the Laird, and free from
a' carnal procleevities, and she kens too
weel what is due to herself', as a daughter
of the Muckheep, to cairst sheep's eyes at
any carl that her father hanna chosen for
her. Bella back ! '

Bella drew in the offending member with
a suddenness that threw all the rest of her
body out of gear ; but Miss Janet did not
seem to notice the awkwardness of her appearance,
although poor Laura choked with
laughter, and was sternly frowned down by
Mrs Freshfield.

I am sure you need not remind me, dear
Miss Janet, of how admirably you have
trained your interesting charge, and the excellent
principles with which you have
imbued her. Any one could see from merely
looking at your dear Bella how sweetly
Christian humility blends with the knowledge
of her ancient lineage in being descended
from those grand old Scottish kings!'

Ay, but we're a that ! ' replied the old
Scotchwoman with pride. ' My brother
himsel' would ha sat upon the throne o'
Scotland if the country had had its rests.
The Muckheeps came in a de-reject line
from the first James, and the fluid has
been untainted on their side till noo. But
I'm no saying' we can expect the same to
last for ever ; and if the lassie there can
find a gude mon, and a God-fearing ane,
to cherish her innocence and keep her
from carnal procleevities in a proper fashion
for ane wha has Scottish royal fluid running'
in her veins, why, the laird and myself'
would give her our blessing with that of
heaven. Bella  shoulders ! '

Laura was too much interested in the
conversation this time to care whether Bella
carried her shoulders up to her ears or down
to her heels. She was a sharp girl, and
soon perceived, notwithstanding the fencing
with which they carried it on, that her
mother and Miss Muckheep had the same

VOL. I. G

notion in their minds  namely, that her
brother Bernard would make a very good
match for the young lady in question, and
she shuddered at the mere anticipation of
such a sister-in-law.

Ah ! you must look out for a good son,
dear Miss Muckheep,' sighed Mrs Freshfield,
and then he is sure to make a good husband
 such a son now as my Bernard has
been to me. You can scarcely credit how
good he is  the residents of Bluemere say
they never saw such another young man 
with such principles  and such charity 
and such unselfishness. He is quite a
father to his people, though so young. I
trust he may some day marry again, for he
must feel very lonely in that fine place,
Briarwood, with no lady to look after it.
Such furniture, Miss Janet, it seems a sin
it should not be used, and his income, too,
a clear two thousand a-year besides his
stipend. What is a young man to do with
so much money all by himself? But, ashe

was saying to me only yesterday, he
cannot find the woman he could love in
Bluemere. For my dear son is very particular,
and he will marry no one who has
not received a strictly religious training of
the good old-fashioned sort, or who is not
of undoubted birth and breeding. "Above
all things, mother," he said, *' she must have
good blood, and be a confirmed Christian." '

Here Laura, who had been listening in
silent amazement to this extraordinary combination
of requirements in a wife, broke in
with her usual vehemence.

Why, mamma, we have always considered
Bernard such a radical. I didn't think he
cared a pin about blue blood. I have heard
him say he would take a wife off a dunghill
if he found a true wife there. And I am
sure poor Alice was not very aristocratic.
Her grandfather was a cotton-spinner.'

My dear Laura,' interposed Mrs Fresh-field,
' pray do not bring in the name of that
dear saint in heaven. Whatever she may

have been Is no concern of ours now. And
as to your dear brother's principles, they
are strictly conservative in every way, and
the Queen has no more loyal subject than
himself.'

Miss Muckheep, whose mouth had been
watering at the description of Briarwood,
and the fortune that maintained it, took up
the cue at loyalty.

Ay, but it's a fine thing is loyalty, Mrs
Fralchfield, and ye would say so if ye could
see the respect and the hoo-mage that is
ay peed to the lairds o' Muckheep when
they Stan' on their ain heather. King
James himsel' cou'dna have received mair
difference fra the vassals of his court. And
the same difference wad be peed to a his
de-descendants in the perfect line. And though
the bawbees air unco' guide things in themselves,
and I wadna be saying' that the laird
wad refuse the han' of his daughter to any
mon wha had the silver to keep her as would
be expected, yet I ken weel that sae lang

as he had no carnal pro-cleevltles, he
wad geev'e the prair-feirence to ane wha
held con-salrvatlve views. Bella  chin ! '

Bernard Freshfield and his friend Anderson
walked over to Blue Mount some little
time before dinner, and Laura, alarmed at
the conspiracy which she had detected, took
an early opportunity to draw her brother on
one side and confide her suspicions to him.

Bernard, dear,' she exclaimed, as she
followed him into the hall, where he went
to deposit his hat and stick, * isn't Bella
Muckheep horrid ? Do say you think so.'

She is not charming, my dear Laura,
either in person or manner, at all events,
on a first acquaintance. But what is the
matter ? Why do you look at me in that
extraordinary way ? '

Because  I know you will not believe
me  but I assure you 'tis the truth  mamma
and Miss Janet want you to marry her.
They have been giving broad hints to each
other on the subject the whole afternoon.'

Bernard burst out laughing.

And you are afraid your innocent
brother will be entrapped Into matrimony
against his will, like the forlorn heroine of
the last romance you indulged in, and led
like a victim to the hymeneal altar, eh ? '

But Laura did not laugh. She blushed.

Not quite that, Berne, only  don't be
angry, dear  you remember how mamma
persuaded and cajoled and coaxed you before
about poor Alice, until there seemed nothing
for you to do but to give In. You are so
good to mamma, Berne, and so mindful of
her feelings, that you forget to consider
your own.'

Bernard drew his sister into the morning
- room, where they could talk with
greater freedom, and when he got her
there he took her in his arms and kissed
her.

Thanks, dearest Laura, for your thought
and care of me. But don't be afraid, little
sister. Your big blundering brother will

not make a second mistake. My eyes have
been opened, Laura. I see and know now
what love is, and I will never accept respect
nor friendship nor liking instead of it. It
must come to me like a revelation from
heaven,  full, free, and without reserve, 
pouring upon me because it has no power
to contain itself, and glorified by passion
as the sun tips the clouds with gold and
azure. No more half hearts nor modified
affections, Laura. My next love must give
me all or nothing, and receive the same
from me.'

Oh, Berne, I am so glad to hear you
speak like that. It is just my own idea
of what a love that terminates in marriage
should be. But I dare not say so before
mamma, because she calls me bold and un-maidenly
to hold such opinions, and I would
rather be thought anything than that. She
says that if I esteem the man I marry,
it is all I ought to do before I am his
wife.'

A false principle, Laura, and one that
may lead to any amount of unhappiness.
Love comes from God, and marriage was
ordained by Him, and the man who separates
the two, who marries for convenience'
or conscience' sake, or because he considers
it advisable, commits a blasphemy against
the God of Love, and deserves all he may
suffer in consequence. I would rather marry
a bad woman who loved me than a good
woman who did not. Love might reform
the first, but mere goodness could never
make me love the other. Don't mistake
esteem for love, dear. They are not the
same thing, and they never will be.'

And you are quite, qttite sure, then,
that you could never come to love Bella
Muckheep . '

Quite, quite sure, little sister. I am
afraid that I am too fond of beauty ever
to be able to enjoy an ugly wife. I like
to be surrounded by beautiful things  to let
my eyes dwell on them  to drink in each

detail of their perfections. You know how
I value my beautiful china, my pictures
and statuettes. They are a never-failing
source of pleasure to me. My wife must
be the same. She must be lovely and
lovable, or I will die as I am. Miss
Bella's fat cheeks and unmeaning features
will never tempt your brother to alter his
condition. So you may take me back to
her presence with the most perfect safety ! '

When they re-entered the drawing-room,
Miss Janet was holding forth to Mr Anderson
on the perfections of her favourite
minister.

Ech, mon ! ' she said, ' but ye should set
wonder the Reverend Doctor Felinus, if
ye would hae pure doctrine and the most
estimable example. Ay ! but to hair him
carse the sinner, and defect the terrors
of hell prepared for the licht-minded and
inwardly, wud mak each hair on your heed
Stan' on end. He is a rare fine preacher
is the Reverend Doctor Felinus. It would

be wairth your wheels to travel to Barracks
jest to get a ward of exhortation
fra the keeps of sae hardly a mon.'

But my friend Mr Anderson does not
belong to the same church as Dr FeHnus,
Miss Muckheep/ interposed Bernard at this
juncture, * added to which he has dozens
of celebrated preachers of his own faith to
whom he could listen with greater benefit to
himself.'

Ay, but I canna believe it,' replied Miss
Janet decisively. * No young mon could do
better than to listen to the exhortations
and the prayers of sech a meenester as Doctor
Felinus, while he expounds the glorious
doctrines of Calvin, the greet reformer of
the world.'

Why did you not tell us of him before ! '
exclaimed Mrs Freshfield enthusiastically.
I should have been so charmed, dear Miss
Muckheep, to receive your estimable minister
as a guest beneath my humble roof, and to
have benefited by some of the precious sayings

that would have dropped Hke honey
from his Hps.'

You, mother ? ' said Bernard, frowning.
What should you want with the teachings of '
a Calvinistic minister ? Haven't we parsons
enough in our own country to serve your
need ? I can understand your wishing to
receive Miss Muckheep's friend at Blue
Mount, as a friend, but not to place yourself
under his ministration as a disciple. And
you of all people, who (as a rule) are so especially
hard upon any one who dares to think
differently from yourself in religious matters.'

Bernard accompanied this last remark with
a glance at Charles henderson, which made
Mrs Freshfield colour with vexation.

My dear Bernard,' she replied testily,
'you are utterly mistaken. It is true that
I cannot tolerate a wilful turning from the
truth  an abandonment of the faith in which
we have been reared.'

Come, come ! we have had enough of
that,' interposed her son authoritatively.

But It does not follow continued Mrs
Freshfield, 'that I should not derive spiritual
benefit from association with a saintly manlike
Dr Felinus, the doctrines of whose
church are precisely the same as our own

That shows all you know about it replied
Bernard. ' Dr Felinus may be, and
doubtless is, an excellent man, but we do not
require his teachings in Bluemere/

Ech, sir ! ' chimed in Miss Janet, 'but
ye coudna speak with greater heat if the
gude doctor were a bluidy Peepist, reedy
to massacre ye with the sward if ye diana
sweet at ance, to adhere for aye to his
demoralising and derogatory dawctrlnes/

Madam,' said Bernard, ' I must ask you
to drop all theological discussion for this
evening, as my friend here, Mr Anderson,
is a member of the church you speak of

*A member of what?' exclaimed Miss
Muckheep.

Of the Holy Roman Catholic Church,'
repeated Anderson reverently.

And therefore,' continued Bernard, * you
will see that as his faith differs as much
from mine, as mine does from that of Dr
Felinus, if we wish to spend a pleasant
evening together, it will be wise to put
our religions in our pockets, and think only
of our dinner.'

Ay, but a Peepist ! ' ejaculated Miss
Janet, 'a real bluidy Peepist; it is awful'
to think on, and I canna say it is what I
expected in this loose to be asked to see
toon at the table with a disciple o' the
scarlet woman ! '

Indeed  indeed, dear Miss Janet, it is
not my doing,' interposed Mrs Freshfield.

Mother, you forget what is due to my
father's name,' said Bernard sternly ; but his
expression quickly changed as he turned to
Miss Janet. 'Come, madam, look well at
my friend, and you will see he is not so formidable
an antagonist after all. Turn this
way, Anderson, and let us have a good view
of your apostate features.'

Ech, sir ! but Tm no saying' that the
young mon has not a gude face of his a In,
mair's the piety it should fa' toon to wardship
blocks of stone and idols. And is it
true, sir, that the meeneesters canna marry
in your misguided church ? '

Quite true, madam,' replied Anderson,
with a bow.

Ay ! but it's an awful thing to contemplate,
and I sincairly welsh that the
rair-verend Dr Felinus had been hair
to pint foot to ye the air-er of your
ways.'

And I am sincerely thankful he is not,'
cried Bernard, laughing, ' or we should have
been victimised to listen to a religious argument
that would have spoiled our dinner.'

'Come, Miss Muckheep,' he added, as the
butler announced that the meal was ready,
let us leave our spiritual duties alone for
awhile, and attend to the wants of the inner
man. I am sure you are ready for your
dinner as well as myself, and when it is

over we will join In a bumper to the healths
of the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Pope
of Rome, and Dr Feints, and feel ever so
much better Christians for the act.'

And Miss Muckheep, although dreadfully
scandalised at hearing the name of her
favourite minister linked with those of two
such reprobates as a pope and an archbishop,
possessed too many ' carnal 
' of her own not to relish the idea
of a good dinner, and trotted off on Bernard's
arm without another word.

Mother ! ' he said, over his shoulder on
their way to the dining-room, ' I have received
such a nice long letter from dear old
Nelson Cole.'

Indeed, Bernard ! and what is his news ?'

Well, he wont be home yet awhile, I
am sorry to say, but as that is the consequence
of his abilities being appreciated in
the new world, his friends must not grumble
at It. And he says that when he does return,
his first visit shall be to Briarwood.'

As the party seated themselves at table,
Charles Anderson found himself next to
Laura.

Why do you look so solemn ? ' she
whispered to him, laughing.

'I was only thinking  that Is, hoping,
Miss Freshfield, that you do not share Miss
Muckheep's sentiments with regard to my
religion.'

I do not share her sentiments on any
subject; you may rest assured of that,' returned
Laura. ' And, above all things,' she
added, with a bright look that reflected itself
immediately on her companion's countenance,
' I admire freedom of thought, and the
courage that puts it into action.'

HEN Bernard Freshfield went to
his mother's house that evening,
he had fully intended asking his
sister Laura to accompany him to Mrs
Pinner's ' tea and muffin ' on the following
Thursday, and make the acquaintance of
Miss Phyllida Moss. But somehow  he
hardly knew why  when he had any opportunity
of introducing the subject, a sudden
shyness seized him and he said nothing. He
was vexed with himself afterwards, and determined
he would write to Laura  yet he did
not write. Why was It ? The passion of love
could not have made this staid young man its

VOL. I. H

victim at one interview  a single sight of
that mobile face, those starry, far-seeing
eyes and that sensitive mouth could not
have thus shaken his reason in her equilibrium
? No ; but he instinctively felt the
approach of some great change ; and when
the love of woman does come upon man
with an overwhelming force that bears down
all barriers of circumstance or policy or
difficulty before it, he has an inkling of,
what will befall him from the very beginning.
The affection which Is grafted
upon esteem and a knowledge of character
may last longer, but it knows none of the
bliss that is born of mutual instinctive
passion. It is the offspring of the reason
we have cultivated  not of the nature which,
however we may lower It, came as a gift
from God, and Is a part of His own essence.
When spirit is destined to meet spirit m
this world, they look out of the human eyes
and tell the truth at once. So, although
Bernard Freshfield had only spoken in a

grave and somewhat catechising manner to
a young girl who, without being shy or reserved,
had scarcely smiled once in answering
him, he had an undefinable feeling at
the idea of meeting her again  a desire
that made him excited at the prospect,
combined with a reluctance that almost induced
him not to go at all. But it was almost
not quite. Something  the nineteenth
century will laugh at me for calling it his
fate, yet why should it not have been his
fate since things happen in this world
whether we will or no, and no power nor
prayer of ours seems able to prevent them
something at any rate, that was stronger
than his own inclination, drew him to Mrs
Pinner's on Thursday evening, although he
thought that he would much rather have
remained at home. And when he reached
his destination and found that INIiss Annie
Warren, decked out in white muslin and
pink ribbons, was one of the guests invited
to meet him, he thought so still more.

Miss Warren, as has been already intimated,
was a parochial light in Bluemere,
although some people were unkind enough
to say she had not found out her vocation
until there was a good-looking young parson
for her to work under. She was a dark,
Jewish-looking woman, with a profusion of
black hair which she wore in innumerable
twists, plaits and curls, and was now considerably
over thirty years of age ; nevertheless
she cherished very strong hopes of
stepping into the vacant shoes at the
rectory. She had made herself necessary
to Bernard's late wife by taking all her
parish and domestic duties off her hands,
until the weak-minded Alice had imagined
she could not order a dinner without the
assistance of her friend. So it came to
pass that, when the poor girl fell into the
decline of which she died, Miss Warren
not only attended to the wants of the
villagers, but constituted herself Mrs Fresh-field's
head nurse. And the husband, however

much he dished her, could not but
appear grateful for a kindness which professed
to be disinterested.

But when Alice died, Bernard found
himself placed in rather an awkward position
with regard to Miss Warren.

She had obtained so firm a footing at
Briarwood that she almost seemed a fixture
there ; and it was not without calling in
the aid of his mother that he could persuade
the young lady that her duties as
nurse and housekeeper were at an end.

But as for stopping her interference in
the parish, he found that to be almost an
impossibility. Miss Annie Warren was
always so ready to defer to his wishes
and carry out his directions, that he could
find no actual fault with her, and the only
objection he really had to her acting as
his lieutenant was, that she so identified
his interests with her own, that the people
of Bluemere began to believe they were
similar.

She had an obnoxious habit too of speaking
of ' our dear Ace ' and ' our dear lost
saint for which Bernard could not rebuke
her, and yet which jarred upon him more
with each repetition ; so that he did not
feel particularly pleased when Miss Warren
came skipping to open Mrs Pinner's garden
gate,  she had an infantine habit of skipping,
as if she were bounding on cork soles,'
which made her look terribly young,  and
scolded him for being late, as if he were her
own property.

You naughty, naughty man,' she cried
playfully. * Here have we been waiting for
you for the last twenty minutes. I don't
know what colour the tea can be by this
time, but the poor muffins are as dry as a
bone. But you shcint be scolded,' she went
on, as she passed her arm familiarly through
his, and led him triumphantly up the garden
path. ' I daresay you are tired, poor dear,
with parish work, and want your tea as
much as any of us. Tell me what you've

been doing this afternoon. Have you visited
the almshouse, and, by the way, did you go
and see the man at Gray's, who broke his
leg falling from the hayward ? '

Bernard tried to wriggle his arm out of
her s, but without effect.

No ; I haven't been to Gray's,' he
answered somewhat curtly, * nor to the almshouses
either. I was too much occupied
with other things.'

Your sermon for next Sunday, perhaps,'
suggested Miss Warren. ' Well, I think
It Is better for you to write It early In the
week. You know how tired you generally
are by Saturday afternoon.'

Excuse me was the young man's reply,
as he stooped down to tie an Imaginary
shoe-string, and thus released himself from
Miss Warren's hold. He was determined
not to be led into the presence of Mrs
Pinner and her cousin, like a sheep to the
slaughter.

Here he is,' exclaimed Miss Warren, as

she preceded him into the sitting-room ; ' and
now, Mrs Pinner, you must be good enough
to let him have his tea at once, and not
say a word to him until he has finished it,
because he is just '' done up " with work
and worry, and I don't know what your
opinion may be, but I think it is awfully
good of him to come here and see us at
all;

Miss Warren gives me credit for a self-denial
of which I am utterly incapable,' said
Bernard, as he shook hands with Mrs
Pinner and two or three other ladies, and
looked anxiously round the room for a form
which did not appear ; * for, in the first
place, Mrs Pinner, \ am as fresh as a daisy,
having been asleep half the afternoon under
my big mulberry tree ; and in the second, I
could have no greater pleasure than in fulfilling
my engagement with you.'

Ah ! dear Mr Freshfield, everybody in
Bluemere knows how good and self-denying
you are; there is no need to try and

hide your light under a bushel,' sighed his
hostess.

No, indeed, and he couldn't do it if he
tried pertly interposed Miss Warren. ' Who
should krtow that better than myself, who
have seen him under the most painful
circumstances. Ah ! that sad, sad autumn,
two years ago, when our darling lay, day
after day, beneath the mulberry tree, and
we never knew, from hour to hour, which
would be the last. No one could have
watched your behaviour then, Mr Fresh-field,
and doubted if you were self-denying
or not.'

Well, let us talk of something more congenial
than my domestic virtues,' replied the
young man hastily, as he turned his back
upon Miss Warren. At that moment he
positively hated her and her reminiscences,
and could have boxed her ears with the
greatest pleasure, had it but been consistent
with his profession as a parson.

I hope Miss Moss is well,' he continued

to Mrs Pinner, 'and that I shall have the
pleasure of seeing her this evening ? '

'Yes, she is well enough, thank you.
She was here a minute ago, but went upstairs
as you entered the gate. Miss
Warren, my dear, will you call Phyllida
for me ? '

Such an extraordinary girl,' whispered
Miss Annie familiarly, as she passed his
chair, ' it is hardly to be credited that such
a creature belongs to the same race as our
sweet lost Alice. I hardly know what
you'll make of her ! She is not our style
by any means.'

Bernard shook his head impatiently, as
though a gad-fly had buzzed past his ear
as Miss Warren, with, an arch smile, left
the room.

I suppose Miss Moss has told you of
our meeting in the Briarwood copse on
Monday ?' he said, addressing Mrs Pinner.

No, indeed ! What an odd thing that
she should conceal It. Oh, Mr Freshfield,

she is a very strange girl ! I am almost
afraid you will blame me for asking her to
Bluemere. And so you have already seen
her ? And what was she doing at Briar-wood
? Not trespassing, I sincerely hope ?'

Indeed, no' replied Bernard earnestly,
Miss Moss was only taking an ordinary
walk, and I trust she will make use of my
grounds whenever she feels disposed to do
so. And Mrs  Pinner,' he continued in a
lower key, ' I don't think you should speak
of your cousin in such terms before strangers.
You will give them an unfavourable impression
of Miss Moss. I see nothing extraordinary
in her myself; we had a long talk
together, and her ideas are much the same
as other people's, except perhaps that she
expresses them more openly. And probably
they are due to her bringing upas
much as to anything else. Where did
you tell me she came from ? '

She came to me straight from St
Domingo, Mr Freshfield, where some of

her mother's friends reside, and I believe
you may call it her home, though she has
travelled a great deal about. My cousin,
Agnes Summers, went out to the West
Indies, where she married her first husband,
and this girl Is her daughter by a
second marriage. However, I never knew
either Agnes or the men she married,
so It's of little consequence to me either
way, only I hope I haven't done wrong In
letting Phyllida come to Bluemere.'

I am sure you have not. Take my
word for It,' replied the parson fervently,
and Mrs Pinner believed In him so fully
that she began to think that, on the contrary,
she had done a very clever thing.

Here Is Phyllida ! ' she exclaimed, a
moment after, as Miss Moss entered the
room with Annie Warren. She was still
dressed In deep black, and the lace round
her throat was the only ornament that
relieved her sombre attire. The two young
ladles In white muslin, and the widow In

purple satin who formed the other guests,
exchanged furtive looks and smiles at the
simplicity of the stranger's dress ; but Bernard
saw only the humid eyes and the
marvellous complexion, and the parted lips
like rose leaves with the dew on them, ashe
rose and clasped the hand she extended
to him. After Phyllida's entrance and the
few commonplace inquiries that succeeded
it, a blight seemed to fall upon our parson
as regarded conversation, and the ladies
had all the chatter to themselves.

The tea and muffins duly made their
appearance, and Bernard was conscious of
being assiduously waited on by Miss Warren
and Miss Masters and Miss Lacy, whilst
Mrs Pinner and Mrs Norman talked to
him in soft, purring tones, and he answered
their inquiries at haphazard, and was
half alive to what was passing round him.
For Miss Moss was sitting at an open
window ar the opposite side of the room,
with her face from him, and he kept watching

the soft evening light as it shimmered
on the ripping waves of her rust-coloured
hair, and wondering to himself why each
time she made a movement, as though she
would turn and look at him, a shock ran
through his veins as if they had been subjected
to electricity. It was quite time our
young parson was recalled to himself.

Now, didn't I say he was regularly
'' done up," ' ejaculated the shrill voice of
Miss Warren. ' Look at his tea and muffin,
both as cold as stones. As if he could
deceive me', she continued in a tone of
triumph, ' who have watched his moods for
weeks together. Have you forgotten the
time when I had regularly to coax you to
take your breakfast, Mr Freshfield, and
if I left you to yourself for a minute
you'd be off and leave it untasted on the
table ? Ah, those were sad times, weren't
they ? but mingled with much sweetness,
and blessed to both of us, I hope.'

I am sure they were times that neither

you nor Mr Freshfield can ever forget,
live as long as you may,' chimed in Mrs
Pinner, * for the whole village mourned
with you and with him. Such a life, and
such a death. Ah,  sweet saint.'

Ah, indeed,' sighed Mrs Norman, and
all the young ladies looked mournfully
sympathetic.

We often think of you, dear ]mr Fresh -
field, in your lonely rooms, and pray for
you. It was as terrible loss to incur so
early in life ; but depend upon it, it was
not sent for naught. It will be overruled,
and there are happy days in store for
you still at dear Briarwood.'

I hope so,' replied Bernard simply, and
he meant to say no more, but catching a
glance of too much sympathy from the black
eyes of iIIss Warren, he went on hurriedly,
I know, my good friends, that you all feel
for me, and mean It for the best, but I think
it is almost as well not to allude to such
things, at all events in company like the

present. The past is past, you know, and
I am a great advocate for burying the past
as much as lies in our power. I think it
was intended we should do so. I think
the Creator meant us to be as happy as
we can, consistently with an honourable
living; and that when He sends us trouble,
He does not wish us to nurse it longer
than is necessary. And, added to this, I
feel almost as if I should be exciting your
sympathy on false pretences, if I did not
tell you that, whatever I may have passed
through, I am very happy now. I can never
feel really lonely, you know, with my good
mother and sister to keep me company, and
I have no present intention nor desire to
have any other society than theirs, and
that of my friends of Bluemere. So let
us talk of something more cheerful than my
past troubles ; which, I can assure you, Mrs
Pinner, have nothing to do with the present
deplorable condition of my tea and muffin.
It is a real shame of me to have neglected

them ; but if the truth must be told, I dine
too late to make a good hand at tea, and
I came here for the pleasure of your society
only. Will you forgive me, and let some
of these young ladies seal my pardon with
a little of their charming music ? '

By which it will be seen that the Reverend
Bernard Freshfield had not been able to
keep himself entirely free of using the
small change which passes current in village
society. But whilst he caused the
hearts of Miss Lacy and Miss Masters to
flutter with excitement at his request, as
they looked out their most pathetic ballads
for his edification, Bernard's thoughts were
fixed only on the silent figure by the window,
which had not once joined in the general
conversation. Phyllida had looked up suddenly,
it is true, when Bernard said that it
was a duty to bury the past, and her wonderful
eyes had met his, and told him intuitively
that she too had a past to bury :
but the glance had lasted but a second, like

VOL. I. I

a flash of lightning though  Hke the Lightning,
it revealed so much, and he longed
to see the dark lashes raised again. The
young ladies were warbling 'Two Wandering
Stars' together by this time, whilst
Miss Warren turned over the leaves of the
music, for it was Miss Warren's role to
appear as the benefactor, help and guide of
everybody in the parish, and Mrs Pinner
was enlightening Mrs Norman on the subject
of Miss Moss's antecedents. So Bernard
left his seat, as nervously as if he
were a school-boy, and approached the
window where the stranger sat alone.

Not one word for me this evening ? '
he inquired in a low voice.

Do you require any ? I thought you
were so fully occupied,' replied Phyllida,
and what should / say in a company
like this . '

Probably something more interesting
than anyone else. Mrs Pinner tells me
yOu are a great traveller.'

The girl coloured visibly.

She invented the information then ! /
never told her so. I have travelled of course
who has not in these days  but not half
as much as some people.'

But you came from the West Indies ? '

Yes, my mother had many friends
there. I thought at one time I would make
it my home for good ! But circumstances
caused me to alter my mind.'

I am so glad of those circumstances.'

Why ? '

'Cannot you guess? If they had not
happened, we might never have met.'

'That would have been no great loss to
you, Mr Freshfield/ she answered quietly.
I am not a good subject for conversion.
You will only waste your time attempting
it.'

He was about to answer her, when Miss
Warren distracted his attention.

Mr Freshfield, isn't It wrong of Miss
Lacy's brother ? He is a clergyman, you

know, in London, and he actually allows
his wife to go to the theatres.'

Really, Miss Warren, I am no judge
of another man's actions. If Mr Lacy considers
the play a suitable amusement for
his wife, he is perfectly justified in letting
her attend it'

But think of the scenes enacted there 
think of the dreadful characters of the poor
lost actors and actresses ! I remember when
our beloved Alice  '

Hush ! please don't let us revert to that
name,' interposed Bernard; 'I am not aware
that I was ever narrow-minded enough to
attempt to bias the opinion of any one in
any matter that is not strictly forbidden.
My sister Laura is very fond of the theatre,
and I have never tried to dissuade her from
attending it.'

But you don't go yourself, Mr Fresh-field
? ' said Mrs Pinner.

Because there is no theatre in Bluemere,'
he laughed, and then he added, ' that is

quite another thing. I may refrain from
doing so for expediency's sake, but it does
not follow that I consider it wrote. On
the contrary, I wish I could indulge my
very natural inclination that way. And I
daresay many are of the same opinion.
What do soil say, Miss [NIoss ? Are you
not fond of the theatre ? '

He had to repeat his question before
she answered in a very low but decided
voice, 

'No!'

Perhaps you have seen too much of it,
and are already blade ? '

She shook her head again.

It is not that  but if your conscience
approves of it, don't try and persuade them
to like it in order to follow your opinion.
It is not the theatre, ]mr Freshfield, but
the company and the excitement and the
late hours. Oh, let them continue to love
the pure air of the country and the innocence
and freshness that is around them,

and don't imbue them with a second-hand
taste for what can never do them so much
good as harm.'

She spoke rapidly, and almost in a
whisper, but he could hear every word, and
marked the glow which overspread her
features, and bespoke the sincerity which
actuated her speech.

Thank you,' he said in answer ; ' you
have become my teacher.'

No ! no ! I did not mean that ; it
would be the height of presumption  only
you do not know, you cannot tell.'

Do you sing ? ' he asked, to fill up the
pause. ' Will you sing for us ? '

Oh yes ; Phyllida can sing. She hasa
very pretty pipe of her own,' replied
Mrs Pinner, who, with the rest, had been
unable to catch the substance of what had
passed between her cousin and the parson.
But Miss Moss seemed unwilling show
off her accomplishments.

Do sing,' urged Bernard, ' for me!

OD

Are you fond of music ? '

Of m2Lsic ? Yes. But one seldom hears

it;

Phyllida went to the piano and struck
the opening chords of Archer's song, ' Alice,
where art thou ? '

You can't si no that ! ' cried Miss Annie
Warren, in a nervous heat. Phyllida looked
up to her for explanation.

Why not ? '

Because  its the very name. Oh, ]airs
Pinner, please make her sing something
else ! '

And why are we not to hear Archer's
song ? ' demanded Bernard, who knew the
ballad, and the reason Miss Warren objected
to it perfectly well.

Oh, if yojt can bear it, let her go on,'
replied Miss Warren huskily ; ' but as for
myself, I must ask leave to quit the room,'
and with that she disappeared.

What am I to do ? ' asked Phyllida, bewildered.


Go on,' said the parson, and so she
went on, and sang her song through to the
end. When she had finished, every one
except Bernard looked as grave as a judge.

Thank you so much,' was his comment.
I never heard anybody sing so beautifully
as you do, before.'

She had sure the sono in a manner most
unusually heard in private life. For though
she made no effort, and indeed had taken
but little trouble in the matter, her voice
was so well trained that she could not use
it ill, and the simple song of love and
death appealed to the hearts of all present.

When it was concluded, Bernard took
possession of the chair by the window
that she had vacated, and looked more
solemn than before.

There, you cruel girl, see what you have
done!' exclaimed Miss Warren, as she reentered
the room ; ' you have made him
downright miserable, and no wonder.'

But he asked for the song himself. And

why should he mind It more than any
other ? ' rejoined PhylHda, glancing somewhat
ruefully at the parson's downcast face.

He told you to go on because he was
too polite to stop you ; but It has awakened
the most sorrowful memories in his breast.
His wife's name was Alice ; the sweetest
creature you ever saw, and my dearest
friend, and we watched by her dying bed
together, and I know what he suffered, dear,
dear creature I and what an excellent husband
he was to her, and more like a brother
than a friend to me.'

Phyllida's lip curled.

Perhaps you will be able to console
him, then,' she said shortly as she turned
away.

Oh, Mrs Pinner, did you ever hear
of such heartlessness ! ' exclaimed Miss
Warren, as she repeated the circumstance
during a whispered confidence in the corner
-of the room.

It is a sad insight, my dear; but perhaps

the poor thing has never been happy
enough to know what trouble is, and will
be mercifully chastened before long. But
tell Mary to bring in the tray, my dear.
A little refreshment may rouse our dear
minister from his sad recollections.'

The little refreshment, which consisted
of stale sponge cakes and bad sherry, did
have the desired effect of rousing Bernard,
for, in his anxiety to avoid taking any
himself, he waited so assiduously on his fair
friends, and talked so incessantly to them,
that they did not notice the fact that he
neither ate nor drank, and Miss Moss
followed his example, she neither ate sponge-cakes
nor drank sherry.

I am glad to see the signs of a little feeling
in your cousin,' said Miss Warren, with
her mouth full, to Mrs Pinner. ' She cannot
take any refreshment. She is evidently
thinking over the mischief she has done.'

Ah ! these things are all ordained for us,,
and doubtless it will be overruled,' replied

Mrs Pinner, and she would have heaved a
pious sigh, only a bit of the stale sponge-cake
went the wrong way and made her
cough instead.

When the ladies rose to ore their cloaks
and bonnets, and Bernard realised that
his term of purgatory was over, he looked
round for Bliss Moss in vain. It was a
lovely summer night, and the village was
as light as though it were day, yet Mrs
Pinner's guests. Miss Warren in particular,
had quite depended on securing Mr Fresh-field's
services to escort them to their homes.
But their hopes proved futile. Mr Fresh-field
shook hands with them all at the
garden gate, but remained inside of it
himself.

What can he be stopping for ? ' said
Miss Warren anxiously, as they were compelled
to start without him.

Perhaps he has some parish matter to
speak of with Mrs Pinner,' suggested Mrs
Norman.

Nonsense,' was the sharp retort; 'as if
she had anything to do with the parish !
Mr Freshfield consults me only in such matters,
 indeed, he leaves them to me to settle
without any consultation. I always did the
work for him in dear Alice's lifetime, and I
have never relinquished it since.'

Wont it place you in rather an awkward
position if Mr Freshfield marries again ? '
inquired the widow, who, like all the eligible
ladies of Bluemere, aspired to the post of
parson's wife, and was proportionately jealous
of Miss Warren's interference.

I don't think so,' was the fair Annie's
reply, delivered with a certain secret satisfaction
that aggravated her rivals.

Laura Freshfield told me she hoped her
brother would marry again, and soon, too,'
remarked yellow-haired Miss Lacy, 'and
have another fair wife into the bargain, for
she hates dark women.'

'As if Mr Freshfield would choose a wife
to suit his sisters fancy!' ejaculated Miss

Warren, with an Indignant toss of her head,
which resulted in silence, and lasted until
the ladies parted at their respective doors.

Meanwhile, the parson, standing in ]airs
Pinner's garden, had asked that lady's permission
to lioht a cicrar, which she, from
the door-step, with her head enveloped in a
woollen wrap, had graciously accorded. It
was a very obstinate cigar, however, and
after at least a dozen alhunettes had been
struck on the heel of his boot, and gone out
of themselves, whilst Bernard's eyes roved
up and down the house and garden path, he
spoke again, 

I don't think I said good-night to Miss
Moss, Mrs Pinner. I hope she will not
think me neglectful ? '

Oh no, indeed, Mr Freshfield, but I will
go and look for her, and if she has not yet
retired I will send her out to you.' And
the old lady, who was very glad to get out
of the night air, beat a hasty retreat.

As she disappeared, a slight form came

round the other side of the house, and a
subdued voice said, 

Were you asking for me, sir ? '

Bernard turned to her with alacrity. Oh,
if Miss Warren could only have seen it !

I was, indeed. I should have been sorry
to return home without wishing you goodbye.'


And I was waiting here to speak to you
also, that is, if I could manage it, without
the presence of all those women.'

'All those women have gone home,'
laughed Bernard, ' and you may speak with
impunity.'

But it is no laughing matter, sir. I
guess I have wounded your feelings to-night,
and stirred up old memories which you desired
to forget. I am very sorry for it  that
is all I can say, but I did it unintentionally.
I know what trouble is myself, and I would
have bitten out my tongue sooner than carelessly
rake up yours.'

But, my dear child,' replied Bernard, ' I

don't know to what you allude. You have
done nothing this evening but afford me
exquisite pleasure by your beautiful voice
and manner of singing.'

You orrew silent afterwards, and Miss
Warren accused me of cruelty in singing a
song with that name in it. She said it
was the name of your dead wife, whose loss
you mourn so much, and I am sorry for it,
since it may make you dislike me.'

Bernard's reply was slow in coming, and
he prefaced it by placing his hand over the
one with which she leaned on the top of the
garden gate.

I cannot speak to you openly,' he said,
and yet I wish you to understand me.
Will you believe me, miss ]\Ioss, when I say
that Miss Warren is utterly mistaken in
thinking that I did not enjoy your song.
And yet it made me feel sad in the midst
of pleasure. Why ? Because I have never
yet found my '' Alice ! " She is still in
Shadow Land, for me and mv heart is always

1 44 Phyllida.

crying 'where art thou ?" You may think
it very strange for a widower to speak Hke
this, but I feel I can trust you with my
secret. I have been a husband, but I have
never been married. My wife  the woman
who is to be one with me in heart and soul
I  have yet to meet. And perhaps I may
never meet her. Perhaps I may end my life
still crying, '* Where art thou ? " And that
is what made me sad  not your sweet song,
and sweeter voice.'

Poor girl sighed Phyllida, with a sort
of gasping sob.

To whom do you allude ? '

To your dead wife.'

No, don't say that. Don't run away
with the idea that because I had a want unsatisfied,
she must needs have been unhappy.
I thank God I sincerely believe she led as
peaceful and contented a life as is possible,
and died without the faintest idea but that I
had done the same. She was a good, dear
girl, and I was fond of her, and grateful to

her for all her forbearance with me, but I was
not happy with her  that Is all.'

Well, and I repeat my words,' said
Phyllida, ' " Poor girl ! " doubly poor in
having failed to come up to the requirements
of the lofty position to which you
raised her.'

The " lofty position " of a parson's wife,'
laughed Bernard. 'It is evident you are
not imbued with English ideas, Miss Moss,
or you would not have made such a terrible
mistake. We don't think much of parsons
in England  and as for the parsons' wives,
they are nowhere.'

But Isn't it a great thing to be the wife
of a real good man,' said the girl thoughtfully
; ' to be his companion and his friend,
and to learn to be as good yourself ashe
is ? '

'It is a better thing to be his all on
earth,' replied this material young man
earnestly. ' I am afraid too many women
accept men as husbands on the score of

VOL. I. K

their supposed goodness, and find afterwards
that a sense of duty alone supplies a very
exhilarating sort of wine with which to
fill the cup of life. Parsons' wives, as well
as the wives of other men. Miss Moss, must
build their married happiness on love  on
true and mutual love  or expect it to fail
them in their most urgent need.'

I should think that to be the wife of a
good man was sufficient happiness for any
woman on earth. Think what it is  I mean
only fancy what it must be  to be tied to
a bad man, a thief or a murderer ' (with a
shudder), ' always swearing at you or cursing
you  and then see what a heaven the other
would look like.'

But you are imagining an extreme case,
Miss Moss, such an one as could never
enter except into your imagination. How
you tremble. Do you feel the night cold ?'

No, no ! ' the girl replied with a
shaking voice, that sounded ominously like
tears.

 ' You are sad,' said Bernard kindly. * You
are in trouble. What is it '. '

But all the answer Phyllida gave was to
throw her hands up to her face and give
vent to a sudden burst of grief

Oh, how I wish I was dead ! ' she exclaimed
as she dashed the tears from her
eyes with an impatient gesture at her own
weakness ; ' how I wish I was at rest with
your Alice or the thousand other girls that
have dropped to sleep in this peaceful
village before care or misery came upon
them.'

Don't say that cried Bernard, startled
out of all propriety by her unexpected
emotion. ' If you only knew what I feel,
what it would be to me,' and then, recalling
himself just in time, he added more calmly,
Miss Moss  Phyllida, if I may call you so 
never do such a thing again as to wish for
death, however tempted you may be. It is
foolish and wrong. Death is not oblivion,
remember, and whatever ills we have to bear

in this life, may be doubled in the world
to come. I guess  I feel that you have
suffered : be patient, look on me as your
friend, and some day you may gather heart
to come and tell me all, and I will give you
absolution for it.'

Oh no  not you  not you ! ' exclaimed
the girl fearfully. ' I could not tell you!

Then I will be your friend without receiving
your confidence. Any way, I must
I will be  your friend.'

The soft brown eyes went up to meet
the glance of his, and sunk beneath it.
Bernard pressed the hand he had again
taken in his own.

Phyllida,' he whispered ; and then he
heaved a sigh and turned on his heel and
walked slowly down the lane.

She stood for a minute where he had
left her, gazing after him.

Oh, what is this ? ' she asked herself with
a sort of fearful joy.

Phyllida,' said the shrill voice of Mrs

oood-nlorht

o o



to

Pinner, ' have
the minister ? '

Yes, cousin. I have said good-night
to him,' replied the girl as she returned
to the house.

T is the teaching of the world
that has made us lay down the
axiom that to act upon impulse
is a folly. How few of our impulses are
wrong. What benevolent impulses, and
sympathetic impulses, and generous impulses
we relinquish upon second thoughts,
for fear that we may be 'taken in or
make fools of ourselves or * not show
a proper pride,' and the world  the heartless,
lying, snobbish world  may jeer at
an impulsive error. Ah, better to be taken
in a thousand times than break one heart
(and that one perhaps our own) from a

dilatoriness that can never be amended.
Yet so strong is the influence of our
childhood's teaching, that we seldom acton
impulse without entertaining a host
of misgivings as to whether we have not
done wrong.

Bernard Freshfield felt so as he walked
home that night. He had only done the
most natural thing for a young and impressionable
man to do, when brought in
contact with a young woman in trouble.
He had tried to console her, and he had
permitted his voice and his eyes to convey
the sympathy he felt. If he had
followed his impulses to their full extent,
he would have kissed the sweet, tearful
face that was uplifted to his in the moonlight,
but at this point he had restrained
himself. Yet he blamed his own weakness
as he walked home to Briarwood,
and condemned his conduct as unbecoming
his profession, and wished he had not
said ' Phyllida,' in that particularly soft

and winning voice as he left her side, of
that he was at Liberty to act and feel
Hke other men of his age and position.

He vexed himself on every point, In fact,
until he reached his destination, and made
grand resolutions to be more circumspect for
the future. What should a minister of the
gospel, he thought, have to do with falling
In love at first sight? It was Indecorous
and unseemly! Besides, It couldn't be love,
ablaze In this manner at a moment's notice,
and for a woman he knew nothing of, and
had never seen but once before. It
must be some baser passion, born only of
a beautiful face and lustrous languid eyes,
and It was his duty to trample it underfoot
as a temptation of the devil.

He went to bed In this praiseworthy
frame of mind, and he waked in the morning
with but one idea in his head  how
could he contrive to meet Phyllida Moss
again! He wanted to bring her to Briar-wood
 to see her walk through his rooms

and sit in his chairs, and leave the influence
of her enchanted presence behind her
when she left again. A happy thought
struck him! The Miss ]\Iuckheeps' visit
to Bluemere as his mother's guests, rendered
it almost imperative on him to show them
some attention at Briarwood. He would
invite the whole party over to meet Mrs
Pinner and her cousin, and one or two
other friends. They would not have a
formal dinner only, they should spend a
day there  a whole, long, sunny, happy,
heavenly day amongst the flower gardens
and shrubberies of Briarwood. As soon as
Bernard had conceived this idea, there was
no longer any rest for him until he had
put it into execution. He sprung from
his bed, and walked over to Blue Mount,
delighting his mother by appearing at the
breakfast-table in the most affable humour
with her and everybody else.

We have had such a glorious summer,
and the country is looking so beautiful,

that It really Is a sin for anyone to remain
in bed when he may be abroad with nature,'
he said, in excuse for his early visit. ' My
old gardener, Armstrong, has turned Briar-wood
Into a perfect Paradise. I hope you
are going to bring your visitors over to see
my flowers, mother ? Are you fond of a
garden, Miss Muckheep ?' he added to Miss
Janet.

Ay,' replied the old woman In one long
drawn-out syllable. ' I'm no denying' that
the flo-ors air as bonnie as the reest o' the
wairks o' the creation, but to be over fond
of a air-den or a door, or a beetle of any
saint is a carnal procleevity fra which I
thank the Laird I ha' been preserved.
Bella  been !'

Ah, well,' replied Bernard, laughing ;
perhaps I should have said are you an
admirer of nature Instead, Miss Janet ?
Any way, if you and your niece will honour
me by accompanying my mother and sister
to Briarwood some day, I think I can show

you as pretty a flower-garden, on a small
scale, as is to be found In the county.'

Mrs Freshfield became quite excited at
this proof of her son's evident desire to make
himself agreeable to her friends.

I am sure you will enjoy it, dear Miss
Janet,' she interposed. ' My Bernard is an
excellent host, and Brlarvood itself is worthy
of a visit. I want you to see the rooms
and the furniture,' she continued. In a lower
and more confidential key. ' Such a ,
all ebonlsed chairs and tables, with
pale pink hangings, and the library, too, in
solid oak and morocco leather. No expense
was spared, I can assure you, in
fitting It up, for I felt I could not do too
much for the wife of my beloved son, as I
shall feel again, if the happy day ever
arrives for me to welcome a new mistress
to Briar wood.'

Eh, weel, woman, it's na' seeks nor
sal-tins as ye maun set your mind upon,
but a clean hair and a rest spirit, and

then a' the reest maun follow In due course.
Not that I wudna be saying' that a guide
tocher Is an estimable thing to set up the
loose with, and I trawst that Bella's carle
will be fain to reeve her furniture accair-
din' to her station ; but we mauna think
too much of or sinful bodies and the
calm-forts of this walrld.'

No, no ; of course not,' replied Mrs
Freshfield, who was rather taken aback
by this unexpected rebuke, ' still I am
sure you will say you never saw anything
more elegant than the decorations of
Briarwood.'

Bernard, meanwhile, had drawn his
sister aside.

I want you to write two or three invitations
for me, Laura. They will come
better from mother than from myself

'Why, Bernard, are you going to have a
party ? '

Oh. no ; nothing particular. Only a
few friends will make the visit more agreeable

to the Muckheeps, and it Is a good

opportunity for me to pay off some old

debts in that way.'

To whom shall I write, then ? '

To the Ashleighs. Ask Captain and

Mrs Ashleigh, and their son. I have dined

there several times this year.'

Very good ; and who else ? '

The Langley ; they are nice girls, and
have two officers staying with them. And,
let me see ! You may as well ask Mrs
Pinner and her cousin, Miss Moss.'

Has Mrs Pinner a cousin ?' asked Laura
in surprise. ' When did she come ? I never
heard of her.'

I thought the village crier  Miss Warren
would have been sure to tell you all about
her. Miss Moss has been in Bluemere for
some weeks, and I have met her at the
Pinners.'

And Is she nice, Berne ? '

Oh, she's well enough ; a little barbarian,
fresh caught from St Domingo, but with

more In her perhaps than the generality
of her sex  (no offence meant, my dear,
and I hope none "tooke.'

Never mind, I am used to sour compliments.
But is it necessary to ask this
girl, Berne ? You can't have everybody.'


She may as well come,' replied her
brother indifferently, ' Mrs Pinner will not
care to walk backwards and forwards to
Briarwood alone.'

Very well. Any more ? '

No ; the others will be men, and I will
write to them myself. '

Not Miss Warren?'

Certainly not Miss Warren, she is detestable
! ' replied Bernard, with unnecessary
warmth.

Oh dear ! ' laughed Laura with a mischievous
look. She was well aware of
Annie Warren's aspirations with regard to
Briarwood and its master, and was not sorry
to think that for once that Individual would

be unable to boast of her Intimacy with
the family of Freshfield.

Bernard remained at Blue Mount all
the morning, and it was arranged that the
festivities of Briarwood were to take place
on the following Tuesday, and to consist
of a collation on the lawn at five o'clock,
and a supper In the house at half-past nine.
Croquet, lawn-tennis, and archery were to
be the amusements of the afternoon, and
the parson was actually rash enough to propose
a fiddler and a dance on the green,
to give them an appetite for supper, but
Miss Janet nipped his frolicsome propensities
in the bud.

'If ye will ha' seckit carnal pastimes
at yon loose of Bree-arwud, never expected
to see me within its walls, Mr Fralchfield.
You mak me bloosh to hear ye countenance
sic ungodly plea-sures. Na, na ;
Bella doesna' set fut in Bree-arwud till ye
can tell me there will be na sic profane
heights to meet her ee'. Bella  shoulders !

Oh, no, no ! dear Miss Janet, Bernard
was only joking. Were you not, my son ? '
exclaimed Mrs Freshfield, horrified at the
turn things were taklne In her visitor's
mind. ' He would never dream of anything
so frivolous as dancing. Would you,
Bernard ? We have all agreed long ago
that It Is a vain and godless amusement,
and quite unfitted for one of his sacred
calling.'

Well, I don't know about dreaming of
it, mother,' replied Bernard frankly. ' I am
afraid I very often do dream of it, and wish
it were more feasible ; but I can assure you
and Miss Janet that there shall be no
dancing at Briarwood If the Idea Is the
least offensive In your eyes.'

That's my good son ! ' replied Mrs
Freshfield, and so the matter was happily
settled, and Bernard returned home to consult
his housekeeper about the preparations
for the coming entertainment, and to passas
best he might, the few hours of feverish

suspense which must elapse before he received
an answer from Mrs Pinner.

It came at last, and it was favourable.
It would give Miss Moss and herself the
greatest pleasure to accept the Reverend \r
Freshfield's kind invitation for Tuesday next.

What else did he expect the woman to
say, considering that all days wei'e disengaged
days in Bluemere, and an invitation
to Briarwood or Blue Mount was considered
the very height of honourable dissipation.
Of course everybody said that they would
come, and only too glad to do so.

Yet the foolish, love-stricken young man
felt the hot blood course wildly through
his veins as he read }*Irs Pinner's commonplace
rep', and he raised the old woman's
crabbed writing to his burning lips.

The weather behaved as it ought to do
oh that particular Tuesday, and the August
sun was streaming like a flame of glory
over hill and dale and foliage and flowers, as
Bernard Freshfield stood in the portico of

VOL. I. L

Briarwood to receive his guests, dressed
in a brown velveteen coat with a noisette
rose in his button-hole. His mother nearly
had a fit as she descended from her carriage
and beheld his costume ; but no one thought
of wearing Pall Mall suits in Bluemere, and
she trusted that Miss Janet might not be
aware of the English etiquette concerning
the clothes of parsons, who though they
have been strictly enjoined to take no
thought as to what they shall put on, areas
particular about the shape of their collars
and the brims of their hats as if they
were young ladies in their first season.

However unorthodox might Bernard's
coat and trousers have been, and that
worldly and carnal noisette rose blooming
so saucily in his button-hole, there was no
fault to be found with his frank, smiling
face and hospitable greeting, and he looked
the very picture of a fine young Englishman
as he welcomed his friends to Briar-wood.


How handsome Bernle is looking to-days
whispered Laura to her mother. * I
have not seen him so bright and merry
since Alice died.'

Happier days are coming for him, thank
heaven replied Mrs Freshfield, with a gush
of premature gratitude, as she thought of the
round-faced Bella, who, attired in a Stuart
tartan, and a hat of purely Scotch manufacture,
looked very much as if she had
come out of a Noah's ark.

A cricket tent had been erected on the
lawn, which sloped down to the copse where
Phyllida first met Bernard, and from which
even Miss Janet was obliged to confess
that the view was like a peep of Paradise.
The smooth turf ran for some distance
green, pliant, and close shorn as a piece
of emerald velvet, and the beds of flowers
bloomed all round it like a belt of beauty
and of sweetness. Shrubberies enclosed
the garden on either side, shutting off the
stables, the kennels, and the kitchen department.

To the back was a pine grove
to shelter the house from the east wind ;
beyond the copse in front were richly pastured
meadows where Bernard's Alderney
grazed, and his colts took their summer
pastime. Look on which side you chose,
Briarwood presented the picture of a well-ordered
and well-kept English homestead.
There was but one thing wanting there, 
it was a Paradise without an Eve !

Mrs Freshfield whispered something of
this kind to Miss Muckheep, as the ladies
followed Mrs Garnett, the housekeeper, to
the room which had been prepared for
their temporary use.

'Not in here, Mrs Garnett,' she exclaimed,
as the servant turned the handle
of the principal bedroom door.

Yes, madam, his reverence gave me
orders it was to be so,' Mrs Garnett replied,
as she ushered the party into a large
bedroom, magnificently furnished in the
French fashion with white and blue and gold.

Dear me, how very peculiar,' remarked
Mrs Freshfield, as soon as they were alone.
This was poor, dear Alice's bedroom, Miss
Janet, and my son has never occupied it
since she was called away. I wonder what
made him order it to be prepared for our
use to-day! It is very flattering; don't
you think so ? I know it is not everybody
whom Bernard would admit to this room,
and it is a direct compliment to you
and dear Miss Bella. How sweet she
looks ! '

Mamma ! mamma ! who is that lovely
girl?' exclaimed Laura, interrupting Mrs
Freshfield's confidences, as the door reopened
to admit another party of guests.
Oh, there is Mrs Pinner ! it must be her
cousin, Miss Moss!'

Phyllida, in a dress of some clear black
stuff, made full and high to her throat, and
which yet revealed the creamy fairness
of her arms and shoulders  with a large
Rembrandt hat upon her head, with a

drooping black feather, and not a single
ornament to clash with the perfect beauty
of her features  did look pre-eminently
lovely, and startled even her own sex
with a first view of her charms. But
she stood beside Mrs Pinner, silent and
unsmiling ; without a single glance that
betokened knowledge of her own fairness :
and Laura's second thought concerning her
was, how sorrowful she looked for one so
young.

Is this your cousin, Mrs Pinner; please
to Introduce me,' she said quickly.

Oh yes ! certainly, Miss Freshfield, with
pleasure. Her name is Phyllida Moss.
It was so good of our dear minister to
include her in his invitation. She actually
didn't want to come, but I told her that
would appear most ungrateful to Mr Fresh-field
and all of you.'

I did not think there would be so many
people,' interposed Phyllida, ' but it is quite
a party.*

I understand replied Laura, with a
glance at the stranger's mourning ; ' and you
have not been out much lately. But now
you have come, Miss Moss, I hope you will
enjoy yourself, and try and make friends
with me. There are so few companionable
young ladies in Bluemere.'

She had been smitten at first sight with
the girl's pensive beauty, and was eager
to know more of her. But Phyllida did
not respond in like measure. Rather she
smiled at Miss Freshfield's sudden enthusiasm
as from the heights of a superior
wisdom.

I should have thought there were too
many,' she replied, alluding to the young
ladies, as she shook the dust from the skirt
of her black dress.

You overlooked my adjective said Laura
merrily. ' But if you have finished arranging
yourself, let us get out of this room.
I can't bear it. It is the one in which
my sister-in-law died.'

Phylllcla looked round at the white and
blue and gold adornments with interest.
'And does not your brother use it now ? '

No, never! He sleeps in a tiny room
at the other side of the house.'

How strange ! '

Do you think so ? I should say how
natural ; what do we want with harbouring
unpleasant memories ? There is enough
trouble in the world without that.'

But when we have loved a person, can
the memories be unpleasant ? ' demanded
Phyllida.

Laura laughed.

I am not to be drawn into a philosophical
discussion to-day, Miss Moss. I
have come here merely to enjoy myself ;
besides, I don't think my brother has ever
cared for anybody in the way you mean.
Let us go down and secure good seats
for this famous collation.'

And the first view Bernard had of Phyllis
that day was linked, arm in arm.

with his lauehincT sister Laura. The sight
warmed his heart as he hastened to greet
the two girls  and PhylHda s cheeks flushed
red as the heart of a damask rose when
she perceived him. The collation was
perfect ; and as Bernard kept on heaping
good things upon Miss Muckheep's plate,
his mother secretly wondered how he had
contrived to import aspic jelly and plovers
eggs, and truffles, and period pie to Blue-mere,
and why he had considered it worth
while to do her guests such honour as this,
when his native hams and home-made cakes
and strawberries and cream, had been considered
sufficient provision for all former
parties at Briarfoot.

Ech, mon!' exclaimed Miss Janet, as he
piled her plate with lobster salad, * I'll nobbut
be saying' but your jellies and sallets,
and troubled tarries air a' gude in their way,
but cinna forget that they air but carnal
pleasures, an' that in a few shirt airs, we
shall a' be where seckit things air unknown.'

'Well, we have no actual proof of that,
Miss Janet,' replied Bernard, laughing; 'but
if it is the case, let us make the most of
them whilst we are here.'

Eh, young man, but your pair feet air
no in the rest parti, if ye can argue in sic
a manner. I wish ye cou'd hair my gude
brother the Laird o' Muckheep discourse on
seckit things. Ay, but he's a gude mon,
and a Gad - fearing, and trees a' sic
carnal pleasures under his feet.'

Why does your brother stay so much
from home, Miss Janet?' inquired Laura;
why doesn't he live at Ballick-gallagas
Castle with Bella and you ? '

*Ay, but my dear, is it for the likes
o' you and me to question the going's and
coming's of a pee-vous and Gad - faring
man like the Laird o' Muckheep ? If he
doesna' see fit to bide at Ballick-gallagas,
ye may be sure 'tis the Laird's wairk as
keepit him elsewhere. For my brother
sheds the licht o' the gospel round him

wherever he goes as a shining' ray, and
when it is needed at the castle he will
be cad hame.'

Where is the laird now ? ' asked Bernard,
wishing to be polite.

I canna say for certain, Mr Fraichfield,
but he's ay at Noo Yairk, or California
or the Valley o' Saicremeentc, or any other
part wheel his blessed teaching air most
needed by the larist and inwardly souls,
wha' he was bairn to repair.'

What is the matter ? ' said Laura to her
neighbour, Phyllida Moss. The girl had
turned as white as marble, and the blue
veins on her forehead stood out like cords.

Nothing, nothing ! only the day is rather
warm,' she answered.

Bernard glanced towards her anxiously.

Take a glass of wine,' he said, pouring
out some sherry. ' You require it, Miss
Moss, you have turned quite pale.'

But she pushed the glass from her, and
turned her head the other way.

'You will not get Phyllida to touch wine, '
remarked Miss Pinner. ' She is quite a teetotaller
and cannot bear the sight of it.
Perhaps you had better take a turn In the
garden, my dear,' she added, * if the ladles
will excuse your absence. I am afraid the
walk up here In the heat has been too
much for you.'

But Phyllida refused to leave the table,
declaring she was all right again, and sat
out to the end of the meal, whilst Bernard
kept looking at her white face anxiously,
and blaming his own stupidity In not having
thought of sending a carriage to convey her
and Mrs Pinner to Briarwood. As soon as
the collation was over, the old people disposed
themselves on garden chairs and
benches, whilst the young ones repaired to
the lawn-tennis ground, and soon a merry
party were sending the balls flying everywhere
but over the net, whilst shouts of
laughter accompanied each fresh failure or
success. Bernard did not care to play 



self; he was not by any means a croquet and
worsted-work parson ; but his young curate
Frank Robinson enjoyed himself to the
utmost, and tried hard to persuade Miss
Moss to take a racket ; but she shrunk
visibly from the mere idea.

Oh no ! ' she kept on saying, ' I could
not run like that before everybody. Indeed,
I couldn't. I should trip over my dress and
fall, or do something dreadful ; besides, I
don't want to try ; indeed, I don't ! '

Don't tease bliss Moss, Robinson,' interposed
Bernard ; ' the heat is trying her,
and she would rather remain quiet.'

Mr Robinson departed with a bow, and
Phyllida looked gratefully at the parson.

Would you like to rest indoors till it is
cooler ? ' continued Bernard. ' I want to
show you my house before it grows dusk.
Will you come ? '

He held out his hand with a smile as he
spoke, and she accompanied him without a
word. Some remembrance of the last time

they had been alone together In the moonlight,
leaning over Mrs Pinner's gate, was
doubtless in the mind of both, but neither
spoke of it. The hall and sitting-rooms of
Briarwood felt deliciously cool after the unsheltered
heat of the garden, and Phyllida's
colour began to revive. It was a relief to
her to lose the sound of the loud laughing
and talking that was going on outside ; to be
led by Bernard into one pretty shaded room
after another, and to be invited to repose
on the luxurious chairs and couches, seemed
like the peace and quiet of heaven after the
rattle of the world. She followed him first
to the drawing-room, which was quaintly
furnished in the Louis Quinze style, with
sateen of a pale pink colour, decorated with
little cupids and ribbons in blue, and had a
grand piano standing in one corner, and
mirrors framed in ebony and gold to match
the chairs and tables. Bernard wanted Phyllis
to try the piano, but she shrank from
awakening the echoes in that empty house.

Don't ask me she said, with evident
repugnance. * It would seem Hke sacrilege
to sing to that piano. I guess it was her's,
and I should fancy she was listening all
the while, and reproaching me for daring
to use her things.'

It will be very unfortunate for me if
every one holds your opinions,' said Bernard
gravely, as he closed the piano lid. ' Is
my house always to be a house of mourning,
because my first venture turned out a
failure ? '

But he did not ask her to sing again, and
he led her quickly through the other apartments,
until they reached the library, which
was hung with purple velvet and furnished
with old oak. Bernard's writing-table and
chair stood on a Persian carpet at one end
of the long room, and over the mantelpiece
hung an oil painting of a girl, with a delicate
face and soft braids of fair hair and a lapful
of flowers. Phyllida guessed it was the
portrait of the dead wife.

I shall keep you a prisoner here,' said
Bernard playfully, ' until you look yourself
again. Come, take off your hat and lean
back in that chair, it is my own particular
lounge when I am lazy, and I know you
will find it comfortable. Do you hear that
sound ? It is my dogs baying to get loose ;
it is about the time when the groom takes
them out for exercise. I love to sit here
and listen to their voices. They are
company for me when I am alone.'

He threw open the window as he spoke,
and leaned his arms upon the sill.

'Ah, Mrs Benson!' he exclaimed as he
recognised a figure walking slowly through
the grounds, ' what brings you here today
? '

I came to see you, sir, but they told me
you had company on the lawn, and so I
was just taking my way home again.'

But that was wrong of Mrs Garnett.
She knows I am always at the service
of my friends. Is anything the matter '. '

Rachel's gone, sir,' replied the old
woman, and as she advanced to the open
window, Phylllda could see that the tears
were coursing down her cheeks ; ' she went
this morning at seven o'clock, and her
last words were a prayer and a blessing
for you.'

My poor friend,' said Bernard, as he
took the woman's withered hand In his, ' I
feel for you deeply. It must be very hard
to bear, now It has come  though we expected
It so long.'

I would be the last to complain, sir.
It was written she was to go, and I kept
her longer than I had any reason to hope.
And, thanks to your goodness, my poor
Rachel was ready for her change when it
did come.'

Say, rather, thanks to the goodness of
God, Mrs Benson,' corrected the parson
gendy.

No, sir, I can't unsay my words. I
know of course that it was the goodness

VOL. I. M

of God as enabled you to do it  so 'twould
be if you gave a crust to a starving creature
; but yotid give it all the same, and
if it hadn't been for your patience and long-suffering
and prayers, my poor Rachel would
have left this world as careless as she lived
in it. It's all owing to you, sir, as I can
believe and trust that she's in glory now.'

But you mustn't say such things, Mrs
Benson ; indeed you mustn't,' replied Bernard,
visibly disturbed by the old woman's
laudation. ' I did nothing more for your
daughter than any other man would have
done under the circumstances  Mr Robinson
for instance, or Mr Blackett of Rivers-dale,
or any other clergyman.'

'Why didn't Mr Robinson do it, then?'
demanded the mother shortly. ' You know
it isn't the visiting nor the reading nor
the teaching I speak of, sir. It's the
Christian love you give my poor child 
and the sympathy, and the prayers you
prayed for her at home. I know you did

now, so it's no use denying it  that broke
down all the pride in her poor heart. And
the last words she said to me was, " Am
I going, mother ? Then may God bless
Mr Freshfield for ever and ever." Them
was my Rachel's last words, sir continued
the woman, wiping her eyes, 'and I'll
never forget them nor you, till the grave
closes over myself.'

Bernard Freshfield looked as stupid and
conscious during this harangue as though
he had been detected in a crime. His fair
cheeks crimsoned like those of a woman's,
and he did not once glance in the direction
of his guest.

Mrs Benson,' he said, quietly ignoring
all that had passed, ' don't go home until
you have had some refreshment. Go to
Garnett's room and get a glass of wine ora
cup of her good tea. You are not fit to
undertake the walk back without  '

No, sir, don't ask me. I couldn't
touch bit nor sup, nor would I have

come up to-day If I'd known you were
engaged. But she looks beautiful, sir  so
peaceful and happy  and you'll come . and
see her, wont you, before she's screwed
down ? I know she'd like to think you did.'

I will come the first thine tomorrow
morning, Mrs Benson.'

God bless you, sir ! you've been more
like an angel than a human being to us. And
you'll bury her, too, sir. Won't you ? '

Of course, I will ! '

Ah ! It's a shame for every one to come
a troubling you as we do, when you've
had so many troubles of your own to
bear. There's never a burying In Blue-mere,
but every one on us thinks of the
day when sou laid your sweet lady under
the ground. But you trampled down your
own griefs for our sakes, and may the
Lord, in His infinite mercy, send you the
happiness as you deserve at last. That
was Rachel's prayer, sir, and it is mine
as well.'

'Amen,' said Bernard solemnly; and he
leaned out of the window and watched
the old woman's figure till it was out of sioht.

o o

When he turned to Phyllida again, it
was with half an apology that their tcte-
ct-tete should have been interrupted by a
matter of parochial interest.

These poor people are absurdly enthusiastic,'
he observed, 'and fond of making
mountains out of mole hills.'

But as he looked at the girl leaning
back in the purple velvet arm-chair, with
her hair lying somewhat loosely on the
cushion, and her large eyes fixed upon
the sky, he saw that there were tears
upon her cheek.

Phyllida !  Miss Moss  what is this ?
Are you ill again ? Let me fetch you
some iced water.' But all the answer she
gave him was to catch his hand impulsively
between her own, whilst she exclaimed,
'How good you are! How very good
you are ! '

Indeed, indeed, I am not. You must
not think so. You distress me by the Idea.'

Why do you try to hide it ? ' cried
Phyllida, ' to live such a life as you do ;
what can be better ? To teach people
how to be good ; to turn their thoughts
away from this wicked, heartless world
and give them the blessed hope that there
will be another, where we can begin life
over again, and forget all the misery we
endured in this ? '

'Can you doubt it? Have you ever
doubted it ? ' he said tenderly.

Thousands and thousands of times. I
have always doubted it. I do so now.
What have I seen or heard to make me
believe ? My experience is, that the wicked
succeed and the good are miserable ; that
our prayers go out upon the empty air,
and come back to us unanswered ; that the
young and happy die, and those who long
for death live on for ever. And no one
has ever tried to teach me otherwise.'

Bernard looked very grave, for some of
the girl's arguments were unanswerable, and
he knew that neither Church nor Bible held
the key to them. There is but one thing
that reconciles the trials of this world with
the belief in the next  the love, human and
divine, that sanctifies and alleviates and
shares the first, and will endure unto the
second ; and Phyllida knew no such love.

If I had been taught like your Alice,'
she went on vehemently ; ' if I had had a
friend and a guide like her, I might have
been a different creature with a different
mind ; and yet she, who had everything in
this world, died and left it, whilst I live
on. Oh, how could she  how cottlci she
die,' continued Phyllida, raising her wet
eyes to the portrait, ' with so much goodness
and happiness around her ? Had she
no energy  no courage ? The very thought
of what I had to leave behind me would
have made me live ! '

Do you consider, then, that Alice's lot

was such a happy one ? ' asked Bernard
softly.

How Gould it have been happier ? You,
who love and pray for even the poor of
your parish, who are no relations to you,
would not have done less for the wife of
your bosom

I hope not,' he replied. ' Alice was too
good and pure to need my teaching ; but
my sympathy and counsel were always hers
to claim.'

And yet she died said Phyllida.

God called her,' said Bernard, ' and
when His call comes it must be obeyed.
If love and care could have kept her here
she would have remained ; but she was
quite content to go  contented, obedient,
and resigned.'

I should not have been.'

The words left Phyllida's lips almost
unintentionally, but Bernard heard them,
and the deep flush of passion mounted to
his face. He forgot everything  their slight

acquaintance, his staid profession, his utter
ignorance of her antecedents  and remembered
only that he was a man.

PhyUida,' he exclaimed in a low trembling
voice, * is it possible you envy her ? Speak
to me ; don't keep me in suspense. You
must have guessed what I feel for you.
From the moment we met I knew that I
and my fate had come together. Say you
will fill her place. No, no ! what am I
dreaming of? Say rather you will fill the
place in my heart that has never yet been
occupied  that has been waiting for your
image, my darling and my wife.'

He pressed upon her as he spoke ; he
would have taken her in his arms then
and there, but Phyllida sprang from her
seat and kept him off with both her
hands.

No ! no ! What are you thinking of ?
You must be mad! I your wife  /  the
wife of a man whose life is spent in doing
good! Oh! you do not know me  your

eyes are blinded  you will be terribly sorry
for all this tomorrow.'

Bernard stopped short, and put his hands
to his head as if bewildered.

You are talking reasonably, I suppose,'
he said. ' Let me try and answer your
words. I do not know you ! Not if you
count by weeks or months, perhaps  but
love needs no such knowledge. I read your
heart instinctively the first hour we met,
and years could not increase the sympathy
nor interest I feel in you. I do not know
your parentage, nor antecedents, nor your
character, perhaps  but I do not want to
know them. All I want is, to be one with
you henceforward. You have felt sorrow 
I want to comfort you. You need instruction
 I want to teach you. You have no
clear hope of nor belief in a merciful Creator
and a blissful hereafter  I want to give them
you. I want to make you happy and hopeful
and good, by infusing my life in yours, and
showing you that love is the great regenerator

of the world. In one word,
Phyllida, I love you ! I cannot tell why  -
I do not know how. I know only that
you must be mine, or I will go through
life unmated. Come to me, darling. See,
how open my arms are to receive you !
Come, and find your rest and refuge here ! '

But she shrank still farther from him,
reiterating, ' I cannot  I cannot. Oh, how
I wish I could ! '

Child ! do you love me ? '

I do not know ! I am so bewildered I
cannot tell  only I would go to you with
perfect confidence as I am.'

And I would hold you safe against the
world by the force of my passion ! What
is it that comes between us, then ' Is
there any obstacle to our marriage 1 '

She shook her head decidedly.

Does it exist in your imagination
only?'

I am not worthy.'

Bernard sighed, but remained steadfast.

I do not ask your confidence. Some
day when you are my wife you will give it
me without asking. Only  granted that
you are right  it makes no difference to
my love. You shall but have the larger,
fuller need of it to absolve you from your
sin. I repeat I love you ! '

Oh, Mr Freshfield ! It must not, cannot
be ! You have only seen me three
times altogether ! '

Three times or three hundred times are
all the same to me ! The more I see of
you perhaps, the more I shall esteem you,
but esteem is not love. As love is a free
gift from God to man, so is it free from
man to woman. I do not want to bargain
with you for an exchange for my love. It
is yours without limit or restraint, because
I cannot help giving it to you.'

'And neither can I help loving you.
Heaven have mercy on me!' cried Phyllis,
with a burst of tears. But Freshfield
would not let them flow. He took her

hands from before her face and kissed
her passionately.

My love  my darling  my true wife !
Say you will come to me ! ' he exclaimed,
as he held her in his arms.

I must not  I cannot ! Oh, do not
ask mie ! '

You have confessed your love for me,
and I will not let you take it back again.
Only for the sake of Bluemere I will give
you time. How soon may I tell the world
that you are mine.'

I am not ! I will not let you say so I
But I will give you my decision in a
month. And before that time you will
regret you ever asked for it.'

In a month ! A long, drawn-out, weary
month ! Think of the days and nights of
suspense that I shall suffer ! Oh, my
love ! make it less than a month.'

I cannot! It is far too short a period.
I must have time to consider and decide
what is right for me to do.'

You might think and consider for twice
two hundred months said Bernard, ' but at
the end of that time, PhylHda, you would
be mine. It is fate  do not try to battle
with it, for It will be useless. God has
given you to me, and you are mine ; mine
for time and for eternity.'

He held her from him for a few moments,
gazing at her as though he were drinking
in every detail of her beauty ; then, almost
roughly, he kissed her upon brow and lips
and bosom, and put her away from him.

Phyllida stood where he had left her, too
much overcome to speak or move, whilst
Bernard took two or three hasty strides up
and down the room.

When he returned to her side, he was
the courteous, smiling host of an hour before.

Shall we go back to the garden ? ' he
said, drawing her arm through his own.
I think you are rested now, and will enjoy
the cool evening amongst my beautiful
flowers.'

But before they passed out of the Library
he stopped once more and gazed in her
face.

My wife,' he said, with a look of ineffable
tenderness, ' my true wife found at
last ! Thank God ! thank God ! '

',T was about five or six days after
that eventful party at Briarwood
that Miss Annie Warren met
PhylHda, walking very slowly and steadily,
with her eyes fixed on the ground, beside
the broad lake or mere, from which the
village took its name, and which was on
the road to one of the outlying districts of
the parish. Phyllida had chosen that path,
because she thought It unlikely she should
meet Mr Freshfield there. She knew
nothing of the patch of common beyond,
and his parishioners who lived upon it. She
had been hiding from him ever since that

passionate scene in the library in which he
had claimed her as his, whether she would
or not ; and he was too delicate to break
voluntarily on her seclusion, although he
had paid more than one visit to Mrs Pinner,
in hopes of seeing her. His mother and
sister also had called upon Phyllida, and
Laura had been disappointed on that occasion
by Miss Moss's absence ; but Mrs Pinner
had no idea where she was gone, although
she had but run to hide herself amongst
the cabbages at the back of the house, as
soon as she heard the carriage wheels. She
was shy in fact of meeting any of the family,
until the mighty question Bernard had raised
between them should be settled, and all day
long she walked or sat about in the loneliest
places she could find, asking herself,
What shall I do ? What shall I do ? '

Miss Warren could not comprehend such
shyness. Had she been placed in the position
of Phyllida, all the parish would have
been acquainted with the fact twelve hours

VOL. I. N

after. She could only imagine, therefore,
that this melancholy air was put on to curry
favour with the parson ; perhaps even to
induce him to employ her in the parish,
which her presence on the road to Brick
Common seemed to verify. Miss Annie was
in a spiteful mood that day, she had been soever
since the party to which she had received
no invitation, and Miss Moss seemed
a fit subject to vent it upon.

You here ? ' she exclaimed with well-acted
surprise as she came up with Phyllida.
She had seen and recognised her full three
minutes before. ' I am surprised. What on
earth q,2Sv pott be doing at Brick Common ? '

What are you doing here yourself ? '
retorted Phyllida.

Oh ! / am at my parish work, of course.
My hands are full from morning till night ;
thanks to the entire confidence reposed in
me by our dear minister. He gives Mr
Robinson his instructions daily, but he never
thinks of interfering with anything I may

do. He has known me and my method
too long, you see. And as for giving mea
rival to share my parochial duties, I
believe he would as soon think of cutting
off his right hand,' continued Miss
Warren, with a laugh that was intended to
be the height of confidence. ' For he
knows that I should resign my position at
once, and he would lose my services
altogether.'

I should think you need have no fear
of any one wishing to supplant you. Miss
Warren. Attending to old men and women
cannot be very pleasant work.'

Not if you look at it in a worldly
light ; certainly not,' replied Miss Warren,
severely, ' but why should I talk to you
on the subject ? The wisest words fall
unheeded on the ears as yet unstopped by
grace. And what sort of party did you
have at Briarwood last Tuesday ? I was
so busy, I had no time to come.'

Were you asked ? ' demanded Phyllida

innocently. Miss Warren grew very red,
but stood to her ground.

It will be a strange day, indeed, when
there are parties given at Briarwood, to
which I am not asked,' she said ; ' but everybody
in Bluemere is talking of the extraordinary
manner in which the invitations
for this one were sent out. All Mr Fresh-field's
dearest and oldest friends omitted,
and perfect strangers of whom he knew
nothing, asked instead. Whoever counselled
him, did very unwisely. It has created
quite a scandal in Bluemere.'

But perhaps it was Mr Freshfield's
own wish, Miss Warren. The society of
strangers makes a pleasant change sometimes,
in a dull place like this.'

You don't know Mr Freshfield, or you
would not say so  he is not the man to
neglect those who have been with him
through all his trouble. I expect the invitations
were left to his mother and
sister, and that old lady Miss Muckheep

has got a finger in the pie. Everybody
says she is mad, and Laura Freshfield is
not much better. She doesn't care with
whom she associates ; she actually walked
straight through the village the other day
on the arm of a Roman Catholic'

How dreadful ! ' cried Pallida, lauehino-.

Ah ! you may laugh, Miss Moss, but
we in Bluemere have been taught to think
differently from yourself ; and our minister
is like a beacon set on a hill  he can do
nothing that is not known and commented
on far and wide. I can tell you that poor
dear Alice hardly dared do anything:, until
she knew what Bluemere would think of
it. I remember once her taking feather
out of her hat, because some one said that
it looked too gay  a minister's wife cannot
be too particular, nor a minister in the
choice of his friends. But some people
will push their way anywhere. What did
you do at Briarwood?' continued Miss
Annie, who was dying to hear all about it.

Can't you ask somebody else, Miss Warren,
since you know every one in Bluemere ?
/ am a stranger here, remember ! Besides,
I was not well on that day, and did less
than any one else

Something in the girl's look and tone
warned Miss Warren she had said enough.

Of course I can,' she replied, jerking
the heavy basket on her arm. ' I can ask
Mr Freshfield himself for that matter, as
I am just going to meet him. Good-bye,
Miss Moss. I wouldn't keep on this road
U I were you  for Farmer Green's bull is
allowed to roam about these meadows at
his will, and he is dangerous with strangers,'

Thank you ; but I am not afraid of
bulls,' said Phyllida, as her companion
left her to herself. But as soon as Miss
Warren was out of sight, she did quicken
her steps, though it was not from fear of
Farmer Green's bull. ' I cannot meet /izniy'
she thought to herself ; ' he will renew that
subject, and I shall not know what to tell

him. That woman is right  with all her
spite and jealousy, she speaks the truth.
A minister is like a beacon set on a
hill. He cannot lower himself without
lowering his profession. Oh, I must not
I must not do as he asks me. It
would be so sweet to feel myself safe
and good with him, but I am unworthy
of It, and if he knew me as I am, he
would not press me to share his happy
home. I love him' she continued, grinding
her pretty teeth together, ' I feel I
love him for all his goodness to me and
every one. He is like an angel from
heaven to me, and so I must not marry
him. Oh, I will not  I will not. I
will run away, where he shall never find
me again. I will go back to my old
life  I will do anything except tell him
the truth. But It is hard hard. Why
was I created to be different from other
women ? Why should I be unfit to bea
pure and happy wife and mother }

Why must /, who long so much to be
good and innocent and free from blame,
refuse the very means which would make
me so ? I could love him a thousand
times better than that pale-faced, stupid-looking
girl who was his wife ; but she
would have borne his contempt more
quietly than I could. For I would kill
him before I would see his love change
to hatred or indifference. Oh, how I
wish I had never met him. I wish I
had the courage to throw myself to the
bottom of that lake and forget everything
that has ever happened to me.'

She leaned far over the water as these
thoughts passed through her mind, and
looked down into its placid depths. They
were dark but clear as a mirror, and as
Phyllida gazed at her own reflection,
another face appeared beside her's, smiling
eagerly. It was that of Bernard Freshfield.
She started as if she had been shot.

'Take care, my love!' he exclaimed

anxiously ; * these banks are very steep and
slippery, and unless you can swim, I would
not answer for your reappearance after a
submersion in the Blue Mere. Of what
were you thinking, Phyllida, that my
sudden apparition should make you start
so violently ? '

The answer was very different from what
he expected.

I was thinking how much trouble it
would save me, to be lying asleep for ever
down there.'

Haven't I already told you that is
wrong ? ' he answered gravely ; ' besides, it
is cruel to me. How do you think /
should feel now if your dear eyes and
mouth were closed to me for ever. Would
you trample down my new-found happiness
with the memories of another coffin
and another grave ? '

Mt is for your sake I would do it,'
cried Phyllida passionately, ' that you might
forget you had ever seen or heard mesh,

Mr Freshfield, you must never speak
to me again as you did last Tuesday.
It is quite impossible. It can never
be. You lower yourself by the mere
idea.'

That is my business, is it not ? ' said
Bernard Freshfield ; ' and if I tell you that
I feel lifted up to the very heights of
heaven by the feeling you have excited in
me, how can you gainsay my words ? Phyllis,'
he continued, coming closer to her,
you have given me the grandest gift that
one mortal can give to another  you have
taught me how to love. Henceforward
I am greater, nearer to God, for the love
I bear you, and I cannot, will not, give
it up.'

Think of your mother  your sister,' she
murmured. ' Think of the people of Blue-mere,
and what they will say to such a
folly on your part.'

His lip slightly curled.

How Httle you know me, child, to imagine

that the opinions of the world would
sway my resolve ! How little you must
comprehend the depth of the passion I
have conceived for you  unsought, unwished-for,
but overwhelming, if you think that
ten thousand relations or friends could stand
in the way of its accomplishment ! I love
you, as man loves woman only once ; and
I will hold you against the world. Don't
wound me by saying you cannot understand
it.'

The girl turned suddenly and threw herself
into his arms.

I do understand it ! Bernard, I understand
it far better than you think. If you
must have me, then, if it be necessary to
your happiness to call me yours, take me !
Make me your slave, your servant, what
you will ! I will work for you in secret,
and love you in secret, and be grateful to
you for the least sign that tells me you
are happy in my love. But don't make
me your wife, for 1 am not worthy.'

The young man's arms, which had been
clasped tightly round her supple form, fell
from her like failing reeds.

What ! ' he exclaimed, * mine and yet
not my wife ? Phyllida, do you know
what you are saying ? '

Oh, it would be far better so,' she went
on wildly. * You have told me several times
that marriage should be of the heart, and
not dependent upon formal ties. Take me
then for your true wife  if you will ! I
will be true to you, Bernard, in thought
and word and deed ; and I will never,
never ask for more than you may choose
to give me. But don't marry me. I have
seen what marriage means. A gradual
but sure decay of feeling and respect and
courtesy. I could not bear that from you.
The contempt of a good man would be
my ruin. You shall not pull yourself down
for my sake. It were better, far better,
that I were lying in the waters of the
mere.'

He put his arms about her then, and
drew her forcibly from the spot. He seemed
to be afraid lest she should really cast herself
headlong in the lake.

Listen to me, dear,' he said tenderly.
I have told you how I love you. Now, I
tell you that I would rather see you dead
than slay your purity with my own hand

And you despise me for proposing it.'

Not so. If you could be dearer to me
than you have already grown, this noble
sacrifice of self would make you so. I know
what a woman must feel before she consents
to give up all that makes life valuable
to her for the sake of a man. I am glad
you said it, because it proves how much
you love me, but you must never say it
again. My wife must be above suspicion.'

And of me you know  nothing.'

Oh, don't say that ! Has not my love

taught me what you are . Have I not read

the purity of your feelings  the warmth of

your heart  the earnest desires you entertain

for goodness and virtue. It is in you,
Phyllida, to become all that is most honourable
and good, and with me (and the help
of God), you shall attain it.'

I almost think I could,' she answered,
weeping.

And I am sure of it ! Tell me, now,
may I not claim your promise to be my
wife ? '

No, no ! not yet. You know we settled
that we were to take a month's consideration.'


You did,' he answered, smiling. * Well
then, sweetheart, I will not worry you ; but
there is but one answer that I will accept
at the end of that time. And now I must
leave you, for I was on my way to Brick
Common. This has been a dreary week
to me without your presence, but it is so
many days nearer the moment when I shall
claim you for my own. Good-bye, goodbye.'


He went away smiling till he was out of

sight, but her mind was full of perplexity
and fear. The old question came to the
surface, and Phyllida went on her way,
wringing her hands and crying, ' What
shall I do ? '

When she reached home the point seemed
solved for her. Mrs Pinner, like many another
charitable Christian, had benevolently
invited Phyllida to Bluemere, more for her
own sake than that of the girl.

She had thought it would be so pleasant
to have some one to run messages for her,
and do needlework, and generally undertake
the housekeeping. And when Miss Moss
failed to display any domestic proclivities
whatever, and preferred roaming about the
meadows with a volume of Shakspeare in
her hand, to washing and combing Mrs
Pinner's pet poodle Tiny, or accompanying
her to the Dorcas meeting, held once a week
under the supervision of Miss Warren, her
cousin began to wish she had never asked
her to Bluemere. But she had a sister, a

Mrs Penfold, also a widow, who lived at
a little town on the sea coast, called Gate-head,
where she made her livelihood by
letting furnished lodgings. As soon, therefore,
as Mrs Pinner found that Phyllida
was likely to prove only an encumbrance to
herself, she wrote the most laudatory accounts
of her beauty and goodness to her
sister Penfold, in hopes that lady would
offer to take her off her hands ; and since
a young dependant relation, who is willing
to make herself generally useful, is quite as
desirable an inmate of a sea-side lodging
house as of a. cottage in the country, the
bait took, and Mrs Penfold was just as
eager to get Phyllida to Gatehead as Mrs
Pinner had been to induce her to visit
Bluemere.

And this intelligence Mrs Pinner made
known to her over the tea-table, where she
appeared that evening, white, heavy-eyed,
and languid.

Why, bless my soul, Phyllida ! ' exclaimed

her cousin, and with reason, ' how ill you
look. You have been sitting out in that
blazing sun again without anything on your
head. You will have a sunstroke some day
if you don't take more care of yourself.'

I have been in the shade all the afternoon,'
was Phyllida's quiet answer.

I have just received a letter from my
sister, Maria Penfold. Such a nice letter,'
continued I\Irs Pinner. ' Maria is an excellent
creature, one of the salt of the earth,
and Gatehead is the prettiest sea-side place
you ever saw.'

Cousin Penfold lets lodgings there,
doesn't she ? ' inquired Phyllida, who saw
no sin in letting lodgings. But Mrs Pinner
had some particles of the old man still
clinging to her, and one weakness which
she shared with the carnal-minded was a
'false shame with respect to the occupation
of her poorer relation.

Mr Pinner and Mr Penfold had been
equal in point of station in this world, but

VOL. I. o

one had succeeded in business and the
other had failed ; hence Mr Pinner's widow
was a lady in comfortable circumstances in
Bluemere, and Mr Penfold's was a lodging-house
keeper in Gatehead, and the lady of
Bluemere was very much ashamed of the
fact. It was some time before she could
collect her thoughts to answer suitably to
her cousin's straightforward question.

Well, my dear,' she said at last, ' she
certainly does in a measure, but you will
agree with me that it is as well not to
mention it.'

But it isn't zu7ong' quoth Phyllida.

Wrong ! I should hope not, indeed,' replied
Mrs Pinner, with a jerk of her head.
It would be a sad day when any one
connected with me by blood did anything
that was wrong. Still, to let lodgings is
not an occupation to which any of my
father's daughters ever thought to comedown,
and therefore I have never said anything
about it to my friends in Bluemere.

I see ! You are ashamed of cousin
Penfold; said Phyllida boldly.

Phyllida, you really do have the most extraordinary
ideas ! How cottld I be ashamed
of my own sister,  born of the same good
parents as myself, and walking side by side
with me in the light of the truth to heaven ?
Have I not already told you what an excellent
creature is Maria ? And she does
not exactly let lodgings either. Her house
is too large for her, for she is childless like
myself, and an old gentleman and lady
occupy the first and second floors. They
are highly respectable both of them, and
have been living with ]varia for years past,
so you see it is not like being a common
lodging-house keeper to share her very
comfortable home with them.'

I see that cousin Penfold must be a
nice woman, or they wouldn't have stayed
with her so loner. I wonder if she would
be good to me too, and find me some occupation
in Gatehead. For I am tired of this

idle life, cousin Pinner, and it is time I
did something to support myself.'

This was the very opening Mrs Pinner
required.

How strange you should say so, Phyllis,
for Maria is most anxious to make
your acquaintance. I wall read you what
she writes, " Do you think Phyllida Moss
could be persuaded to pay me a visit at
Gatehead ? I remember her mother as a
girl, though you do not, and should be
glad to know her daughter. The sea-side
is charming just now. Our little season
has just commenced, and Gatehead is as
full as it can be. If our young cousin would
like to spend a few weeks with me, tell her
to come before the fine weather is over."
There,' continued Mrs Pinner folding up her
letter, 'you see what Maria says on the
matter, and you can make your own choice.'

But she was hardly prepared for the
energy with which Phyllida entered into
the new scheme.

I will go at once,' she said. ' I shall
enjoy it above all things ; and I am sure
the sea will do me good. How far is
Gatehead from here, cousin Pinner, and
can I start tomorrow ? '

You seem to be in a tremendous hurry
go,' replied Mrs Pinner, who, though she
wanted to get rid of her visitor, was not over
pleased at her alacrity to leave. ' Gatehead
is half-a-day's journey from Bluemere, and
I shall have to borrow a time-table from
the rectory before I can tell you at what
hours the trains leave Watertown.'

Don't think me ungrateful,' said Phyllis.
as she took the old lady's hand ; ' I
am afraid I have been a great bother to
you since I came here, and you have been
very patient with me. Only  I have had
trouble (as you know) and it doesn't seem
to lessen, and I think the sooner I set
to work the sooner I shall learn to overcome
it.'

Don't say any more, my dear,' replied

Mrs Pinner ; 'I'm too old to be a good
companion for you, and you don't seem
to have taken to the young ladies of Blue-mere
 but you will have gayer scenes and
perhaps gayer friends in Gatehead ; for
though my sister Maria has been trained
in the ways of grace, I sometimes fear
that her heart still inclines to carnal pleasures
and company

Phyllida heaved a sigh of thanksgiving
on the spot. But she had another petition
to proffer.

You wont send to the rectory for the
time-table, will you, cousin Pinner ? '

Why not, my dear '. Our dear minister
is always but too ready to share his good
gifts with his people ! '

Yes ; but I don't want Mr Freshfield
to hear that I am going to Gatehead. I
think, perhaps  at least, I feel almost sure
that (in his capacity as minister, you
know) he might consider it his duty to
urge me to remain in Bluemere and try

and live down any troubles with parish
work, and so forth.'

But, my dear,' commenced Mrs Pinner,
who was alarmed at this prospect of recantation,
' Mr Freshfield could hardly take the
parish work out of Miss Warren's hands 
she does everything in that way, you know
it would be a positive insult to her ! And
where am I to borrow a time-table except
from him ? We travel so little from Blue-mere.'


Perhaps Miss Warren may have one,'
suggested Phyllida.

She may. That is a happy idea on
your part, for her brother lives in London,
and is often here on a visit. Shall I send
Mary over to ask her ? '

Yes, cousin Pinner ; and say why you
want it. Miss Warren \\\\\ not try to
prevent my leaving Bluemere  I am sure
of that.'

And the upshot of this conversation was,
that Phyllida Moss and her box were

driven to Westertown the very next day ;
and she had reached her destination of
Gatehead before her lover was aware that
she no longer breathed the same air as
himself.

It was the evening after her departure
that he came sauntering up Mrs Pinners
garden path, hoping to catch the ladies
over their frugal tea. But Mrs Pinner sat
alone at the radish-crowned board.

'Is Miss Moss still roaming?' he asked
pleasantly, as he entered the little room.
What an inquisitive young lady she is. I
do not believe that there is a nook or corner
of Bluemere that she has not explored. She
is a thorough lover of the country.'

Have you not heard that my cousin has
left me, Mr Freshfield ? She went to my
sister's at Gatehead yesterday,' replied Mrs
Pinner, on whom Phyllida had laid no embargo
as to concealing her destination. For
she believed that once out of Bluemere, she
should at least be allowed as much time as

she chose, In which to make up her mind
respecting Bernard Freshfield, for a parson
(so she imagined) must remain at his post
of duty until she saw fit to rejoin him.
When Mrs Pinner made her announcement
to Bernard, his face grew as pale as ashes.
She said afterwards (when circumstances
had thrown their light upon his behaviour)
that she guessed the truth from merely looking
at him. But that was not the case. At
the moment she only thought that he was ill,
or vexed at letting a probable convert slip
through his fingers.

Dear me, ]Mr Freshfield,' she exclaimed,
*you look quite poorly. Do sit down and
have a cup of tea. Yes, Phyllida went off
to my sister Penfold's yesterday. It was
rather a surprise to me, as you may imagine,
for I had invited her to stay with me over the
winter, but I am afraid our ways didn't suit
her. She's rather flighty, and I have been
brought up, as you know, in the strictest
principles, and used to refer all my doings

to the Throne of Grace, and it did not suit
the girl. Two cannot walk together, as
we know, except they be agreed. And the
ways of the righteous are as a stumbling-block
to the ungodly.'

No, no tea, thank you,' the parson said
in rather a strange voice, as he put back the
cup she offered him. * To Gatehead, did
you say ? '

Yes, to my sister Maria. She lives in
Shirland Villas, Gatehead, and was kind
enough to invite the girl to stay with her.
Directly Phyllida received the invitation, she
jumped at it  ungratefully, I cannot but say
and insisted upon going off the very next
day. I wished her to consult you upon the
matter, Mr Freshfield, for, as I said, what
greater privilege can we have than a
minister's advice ; but she is a wrongheaded
creature, and she wouldn't hear of
it. She said you'd keep her here, and set
her about parish work. Such nonsense !
But I've often thought that Phyllida is a

little wanting. I hope my sister Penfold
may make more of her than I did. And you
wont take any tea then, Mr Freshfield ? '

No, thanks,' he stammered ; and then
rising suddenly, ' I must go on to Blue
Mount. I have something of importance
to tell my mother,' and before his hostess
could remonstrate with him he was gone.

So strange, my dear,' as she observed
to Annie Warren somewhat later, ' to leave
me all alone in that way, and when I was
just in the humour to enjoy a little company
! Not like a minister, I must say ;
but still, as he went to Blue Mount, I suppose
I must not complain. He said he
had something of importance to tell his
mother. I wonder what it can be.'

If Mrs Pinner could have followed her
minister to Blue Mount, she would have
been still more astonished. He entered
Mrs Freshfield's private sitting-room with
troubled eyes and ruffled hair, looking more
like a man walking in his sleep than an

animate being, and flung himself upon the
nearest seat. The old lady was alone, occupied
with her eternal knitting.

Good heavens ! Bernard,' she exclaimed,
as she looked up at him over her spectacles,
what is the matter ? '

Nothing,' he said, starting. * Do I look
as if there were. It is this diabolical heat'

'Bernard !' cried Mrs Freshfield.

I beg your pardon, mother, I mean
it is the heat that has upset me. I don't
feel at all well to-day. It's enough to make
any man seedy, to tramp over a parish
from morning till night, in such sun as
this.'

*You should wear a "solar topers"' remarked
his mother practically.

I want change  that is the truth  and
I intend to take it. Robinson can do the
work of Bluemere very well for a few
weeks by himself. You know, mother,
that I have not left the parish since my
wife died.'

No, my dear, you have not ; and a
most excellent opportunity presents itself at
present. Dear Miss Janet was lamenting
only yesterday that Dr Felinus was not
here to accompany her and that sweet
Bella back to Scotland. What would be
more charming than for you to offer these
two estimable ladies your escort ? You
would get a thorough change in the bracing
air of Scotland, and see something o!
the beauties of that delightful country. Bernard,
it is a most happy idea on your part ;
and if you are put to any extra expenses in
the matter, of course I will defray them.'

What ! to go journeying about the
country with that old woman I No, by
Jove! I won't.'

'Bernard', again exclaimed his mother,
in a tone of horror, ' what has come to
you this evening ? '

I don't know, I'm sure,' replied the
young man, passing his hand wearily over
his brow. ' I am out of temper, I suppose,

or out of sorts. Anyway, I can't
be the Miss Muckheeps' escort. I must
be free and alone, and I must start at
once.'

'You surely will not leave Bluemere
whilst my friends remain with me, Bernard ?
Think how strange it will appear, and what
every one will say about it ! '

What do I care for what people say ? '
he exclaimed impetuously. ' The Muck-keeps
are no friends of mine, and never
will be. Don't worry me on the subject,
mother, for I came to say good-bye to you,
and I shall start tomorrow.'

Oh, this is terribly sudden ! What can
be the reason of it ? ' cried Mrs Freshfield.
'It is not customary for a minister to
desert his flock in this way at a moment's
warning.'

My flock will be well provided for, or
I should not leave it. The shepherd wants
most looking after at present'

And where are you going, Bernard . '

demanded Mrs Freshfield in a solemn
voice.

I cannot tell you. I am not sure if I
quite know myself; but you shall hear
from me as soon as possible, and perhaps
I may be able to tell you the reason of my
determination.'

Mrs Freshfield only shook her head in
sorrowful protest against such vicarious
doings.

'Well, good-bye, mother,' said Bernard,
risings. ' I don't want to 00 into the ,
nor to see Laura nor anybody.
I am not fit for any company but my own
to-night. Tell them of my determination,
and let them put what interpretation upon
it they choose. It is hard if a man, who
works as much as I do, cannot take a few
weeks' relaxation without publishing his
reasons to the world. I "dJisJi it, and I
should think that ought to be sufficient

And so saying, Bernard Freshfield turned
on his heel, and with the same fretful

despondent look upon his face, left the
room. Such is the power that the thwarting
of his fleshly inclinations may produce,
even upon a man proverbially even-tempered,
pious, and self-sacrificing !

CHAPTER I.

ATE HEAD was a little place
between a village and a town,
situated on the borders of the
Thames, where it joins the Channel waters,
and sufficiently near London to have the
nastiest dregs of its population poured into
it by excursion trains three times a-week
all through what it termed 'the season.'
There had been a time when Gatehead
was strictly dull and proper  when it had

VOL. II. A

possessed no railway station, nor theatre,
nor hotel even of the most unpretentious
order. Then, its residents were composed
of old maids and widows and superannuated
officers, who met daily on its one promenade,
and gabbled of the iniquity of
the Board of Guardians in wishing to pave
the town, or introduce public conveyances,
or give their sanction to the erection of a
railway station at Gatehead. But those
days were past. The old ladies and
gentlemen were sleeping quietly in the
churchyard, and were not likely to have
their ears shocked by the ribald songs of
drunken excursionists, nor their eyes by
the flaming placards, which set forth that
burlesque had found its way even down
to that select retreat. But Gatehead was
hardly improved by the change occasioned
by the march of intellect. In the olden days
it had been at least respectable, If dull.
Now it was dull and disreputable. More
than two-thirds of the houses were let out

in furnished apartments to clerks' and
tradesmen's wives, whose superabundant offspring
occupied the entire beach, and made
the welkin ring with their discordant cries.
The few residents that remained in Gate-head
were in the habit of letting or shutting
up their houses during the warm months
of the year, and resigning the town to a
lower class of inhabitants, returning only
when the winter had commenced, and the
place was empty, muddy, cold, and unutterably
depressing. It will be understood,
therefore, that Gatehead was at no
time a very desirable place to live in.

Phyllida Moss came to it in the noisy,
vulgar, money-making season. All day
long the station kept on disgorging troops
of mechanics and petty traders and their
families, who swarmed about the place
like flies, causing a lively trade in cockles,
winkles, shrimps, tea and bread and butter
likewise, it may be supposed, of beer
and stronger liquors. All the days they

spent with crimsoned faces and perspiring
bodies on the beach or pier. All the
evenings they danced in drunken glee up
and down the principal street, the women
with the men's hats upon their tousled
heads, and vice versa; or drove about Gate-head,
packed into open carriages, a dozen
at a load, sitting on each other's laps,
shouting filthy songs, and presenting altogether
as disgusting and degrading a spectacle
of human nature as could be seen
anywhere. But the letters of lodgings
made their harvest by the drunken crew,
and were compelled to be grateful for their
patronage. When Phyllida arrived at the
station, and (not having apprised Mrs Pen-fold
of her coming) found herself obliged
to elbow her way alone through the boisterous
crowd, her heart sunk, and she almost
wished she had remained in Bluemere.
Her soul was naturally formed to dislike
noise and publicity, and she shuddered at
the Idea of carrying her trouble about with

her amongst such a herd of ruffians. She
had hoped to find quiet and solitude in
Gatehead, but it did not seem probable, and
her thoughts went back longingly to the
shady road to Brick Common, where she
had crazed in the silent mere and heard that
sweet, soothing voice  the sweetest voice
Heaven ever bestowed on man  remonstrating
with her on her unhallowed wish.
There were no cabs, to carry her box or
herself, at Gatehead station that day  they
were all taken up by the excursionists, so
Phyllida hired a porter with a truck, and
walking beside him to Shirland Villas, presented
herself in a very humble fashion at
mrs Penfold's door. Her knock was answered
by a placid - faced woman in a
mourning dress, whom she felt sure at first
sight was Mrs Penfold herself.

Are you my cousin Penfold ? ' she asked
eagerly. * I am Phyllida Moss.'

The lady  for a lady she was in everything,
but perhaps her occupation  dropt

the prim look she wore for a stranger
immediately, and dimpled over with smiles
of greeting.

Are you really ? You don't mean to say
so ? ' she cried, as she kissed the girl on
both cheeks. * Come in, my dear, come
in,' she continued, as she pushed Phyllida
into a little parlour on the ground floor.

Never mind the luggage, Sarah will see
after that. And so you have come to stay
with me at once. That is good of you,
though of course I didn't expect to see
you quite so soon, but your room shall be
ready in half - an - hour. Sit down, dear,
and rest yourself; I am sure you must be
tired,  and now you will have a glass of
wine, won't you ? '

No, no, cousin Penfold ; I never drink
wine. I would rather have a cup of tea.'

And so you shall, dear ; anything that I
have it in my power to give you,' replied the
hospitable Mrs Penfold, and then running to
the head of the stairs, she called out, 'Sarah!

Sarah ! Miss Moss has arrived. Come up at
once and see after her box ; and take the mattress
off the bed in the Httle room, and put it
to the kitchen fire; and air some clean sheets,
and let us have a cup of tea as soon as ever
you can get it ready; and give an eye to
Captain Barclay's cutlets, lest they should
burn ; and don't forget to take an extra halfpenny
worth of milk for Miss Armadale's
coffee.'

And then she returned to the parlour, and
recommenced purring over Phyllida. ' It is
such an unexpected pleasure to get you here,
dear, for you seem such a favourite with
Charlotte. I hardly hoped she would let you
leave Bluemere.'

But I am not very well,' stammered Phyllis,
' and I want change, and since you were
so kind as to ask me, cousin Penfold, and
cousin Pinner consented to my visiting you  '

Say no more about it, my dear. I am
only too glad to see you, and I hope the
change may do you good. Gatehead is nota

fashionable place, but it is very healthy ;
and though I don't pretend to be a ladylike
my sister Charlotte, I can give you as
many comforts, I hope, as she can

But why are you not a lady as much as
herself?' asked Phyllida. *I am sure you
look more so, cousin Penfold, for she is so
fond of gay caps and dresses.'

Well, my dear Phyllida,' said her cousin,
laughing, ' of course we come of the same
parentage, and received the same training.
But poor Mr Penfold was very unfortunate
in business  in fact, it was his heavy losses
broke his heart at last ; and he left me almost
penniless. So I had but the choice of two
things  to live on the charity of my relations,
or to earn my own livelihood, and I chose
the latter.*

And quite right, too, cousin ! Who would
live on charity who was not obliged ?'

So, as I possessed a little furniture,' continued
Mrs Penfold, * I thought the best plan
would be to let furnished apartments. And

really it is far less trouble than you would think.
My two lodgers have been with me now for
more than three years. Captain Barclay, a
retired officer of the Royal Navy, is the
quietest old gentleman you ever saw, and
most simple in his habits ; and though poor
Miss Annadale is rather crotchety at times,
Sarah and I have got used to her ways, and
generally contrive to satisfy her. They pay
me sufficient to keep my house comfortably
and respectably, and that is all I need. So
you see, my dear, I am not so much to be
pitied, as perhaps my sister Charlotte would
like to make out.'

'Cousin Pinner has vulgar stuck-up notions,'
said Phyllida, unreservedly ; ' and the people
she lives amongst encourage her in them.
They are all stuck-up in Bluemere, and they
disliked me because I cannot pretend to be
pious when I am not. Cousin Penfold, I
know I shall like you much better than I did
her. I feel you are not a humbug, and I
think it was that feeling, and the knowledge

that you are not ashamed to work, that made
me decide so suddenly to come to you. I
want to work myself; but I don't know how
to set about It. Will you help me to get my
own living as you do } '

We will talk about that hereafter, Phyllis,'
said Mrs Penfold. 'You must stay with
me for some weeks, and we shall have
plenty of time for discussing ways and
means. Here is Sarah with our tea. Now
you must eat this nice fresh g (I know
it is fresh, because the captain and I keep
a joint poultry yard in the back garden),
and some buttered toast, and you will feel
all the better for it. Bless me ! you are
very like your poor dear mother,' continued
Mrs Penfold as Phyllida removed her
hat ; ' she had just such clear brown
eyes as yours, and the same profusion of
hair. But what have you been doing to
your hair, child } It is quite yellow in
places, and the ends look as if they had
been burnt.'

Phyllida grew scarlet.

I was foolish enough to dye it once,'
she answered ; ' but it will soon be all right
again.'

To dye it ! ' reiterated Mrs Penfold ; ' that
was a silly thing (not but what half the
girls do it now-a-days), only it's a shame to
touch such hair as yours. It's a lovely
colour in itself, and as soft as silk. No,
no, leave the dyeing to the old women,
my dear, and the red-haired ones, and
depend upon it you look much better as
the Lord made you. And how long is it
since you lost your mother ? '

Years ago,' replied Phyllida, with a deep
sigh.

Ah, poor dear ! she was never very
strong as a girl, I remember, though I heard
little of her after she went to St Domingo.
It's such a distance, you know, and foreign
letters cost so much money. But she went
out with her father, who was a West India
merchant, and we heard the report afterwards

of her marriage. And so she married twice
dear, dear, what an undertaking ; and
Mr Moss was your papa. And have you
lost him long, my dear ? '

No, very lately,' said Phyllida, with a
glance at her black dress.

Ah, yes ; of course, thoughtless of me
to ask. And you have been left without
any provision ? '

Utterly so, cousin Penfold. I had only
just enough money to bring me to England,
and keep me till I heard from cousin
Pinner. I should have gone out as a servant
if she had not asked me to Bluemere.'

We must find something better for you
than that,' replied Mrs Penfold, * and till
we do find it, it will be hard if your own
mother's second cousin cannot give her
orphan daughter food and shelter. So
consider yourself at home, my dear, until
you can better yourself by leaving Gate-head.
Think that you are my child. I wish,
indeed, Heaven had given me such a child.

I should never have missed the bit and sup
I earned for her,' and the good creature
fell on Phyllida's neck and embraced her
heartily. And it really seemed as if she
meant what she said. As soon as Captain
Barclay's cutlets and Miss Annadale's coffee
were served, Mrs Penfold invited her cousin
to a ramble through Gatehead.

If you are not too tired, dear, you will
like to see our little town, and Sarah will
attend to the old lady, so I am free. This
is my holiday time,' she said as she and
Phyilida emerged from Shirland Mllas upon
the esplanade, ' when I go to see my friends,
or take a walk with them, or enjoy an
hour at the play. And it freshens me up
for the next dav's work.'

You are not so strict as cousin Pinner,
then ? ' observed Phyilida ; ' she says the
theatre is the devil's playhouse, where he
goes to gloat upon his future victims.'

Does Charlotte say that ? I didn't think
she could be so wicked. No, my dear, I

hope I try to live up to what I believe to
be right, but I should be ashamed to hold
such sentiments as those. I see no harm
in the theatre, and I am very fond of going
there. In fact, when we have a good company
in Gatehead, I go two and three times
a-week. Would you like to go to-night  '
continued Miss Penfold, thinking to please
her visitor. * They play " East Lynn." It
is a pretty piece ; I am sure you will
like it.'

No, no,' replied Phyllida, shrinking backward.


Why, what is this, you seem almost
as shocked as Charlotte herself. Have I
wounded your feelings by the proposal ? '

No, dear cousin Penfold, indeed you
have not, only I do not care for the light
and the heat and the noise. Sometimes I
think I shall never enter a theatre again.
Let us go down to the beach. May we ?
I long to put my hands into that cool green
water, and feel the fresh salt breeze blow

in my face. I shall love to lie for hours
on the beach, if you will not call it wasting
time as cousin Pinner did, and gaze up into
the sky or over the waters and " make
believe," as children say, that Phyllida Moss
died years ago, and I am quite another
girl, who has only heard of her sad life
and pities her for having lived it.'

My dearest Phyllida,' cried the warmhearted
Mrs Penfold, 'this is not the way
in which a young creature like yourself
should view life. It is very sad to lose
our parents, dear ; but in the course of
nature they die before ourselves, and it is
morbid to consider all happiness over for
us because they are gone.'

 Oh, it is not that  it is not that ! '
replied Phyllida, saying-more than she
intended.

'Then I can guess what it is,' said i\Irs
Penfold, looking very wise, ' and it will be
cured before long, my dear, never fear.'

But something in the girl's sorrow-laden

eyes checked any further jesting on her
cousin's part, and she turned the subject
to some less personal matter. The two
women remained out late that warm
summer's night, lingering on the beach and
pier till the harvest moon had risen, and
every ripple on the incoming tide was tipped
with phosphoric light.

Is it not beautiful . ' said Phyllida, as she
leant entranced over the railings of the pier.
I have watched the water all ablaze like
this at St Domingo, until I felt that to drop
to sleep beneath those warm living waves
would be .heaven compared to the life of
cold anxiety and doubt which we pass here.'

But what kind of doubt, my dear ? ' inquired
Mrs Penfold. ' I hope you have
not had your mind upset by some of these
terrible false doctrines that are going about
now-a-days ? '

Not exactly, cousin ; though sometimes
when I have seen how a poor girl like
myself can pass through this world of

temptation without a soul to succour her,
I have doubted if there is anybody to look
after us, or to care If we go to heaven or
the other place ; yet I did not mean religious
doubt, but the difficulty of deciding what Is
best to be done In certain actions of our
lives. Have you ever felt that difficulty,
cousin ? '

Oh yes, my dear, often ! I remember
when Miss Annadale wanted to take my
rooms I had the most harassing doubts on
the subject, which kept me awake for several
nights, because she seemed to have no
friends nor references, and I thought to
myself where on earth was the rent to
come from If she played me false ? However,
she's proved as good a lodger as ever
a woman had, so you see I might have
saved myself the trouble of doubting herat
all.'

But with regard to one's friends,' said
Phyllida wistfully, ' do you think it necessary
to tell them everything one has ever

VOL. II. B

done during one's lifetime, whether It be
right or wrong, so long as we are good
and faithful friends to them ? '

My dear girl, what a question ! No,
most decidedly not ! The world would
come to a pretty pass, indeed, if all our
friends turned into father confessors. Why,
I don't even approve of confessing sins to a
priest, for we were all brought up on strictly
evangelical principles, and I can't bring
myself to fall in with what they call High
Church doctrine. Still, there's some sense
in telling your troubles to a minister if you
fancy he can help you out of them ; but as
for laying one's heart bare to a friend, you
take my advice, dear, and never do such
a thing. Confess your sins to God. He
is the only person who can forgive them,
and so He must be the proper person to
hear them.'

Do you really think so ? ' said Phyllida,
with a strange light in her eyes.

Of course I do ! Why, child, If it Is no

offence, in what religion may your parents
have reared you ? '

In none' replied the girl, in a low
tone.

What a shame ! I can't help saying it,
and I should have thought Agnes might
have remembered the teaching she had at
home better than that comes to.'

Oh, don't blame my mother, my poor
unhappy mother ! ' cried Phyllida hastily.
Cousin Penfold, you don't know what she
suffered before she died. Her life was one
continual misery to her. Is it a wonder that
she grew to disbelieve in a God or an
eternity, or anything except the cruelty and
wickedness of man ? '

Poor, dear Agnes ! Then I suppose your
father didn't treat her well ? '

Don't ask mee about it' replied Phyllida,
with a shudder ; ' don't mention his name
to me, because I cannot bear it. Cousin
Penfold, the first memory I can recall is of
my mother's suffering ! She was my all

whilst she Heed  I cared for no creature
upon earth but herself  and, seeing how
unhappy she was permitted to be, is it
wonderful that I too came to doubt whether
there was any God sitting up in heaven,
or any life when this shall be ended ?'

Oh, you mustn't think like that, my
dear. Brighter times are coming for you
now, I hope, and you must try and believe
that the Almighty is overruling your actions
for you, and will make everything right in
the end. And my advice to you, Phyllida,
is to bury your past as much as lies in
your power. Try not to think of it or
speak, of it. Let it die a natural death, as
all griefs do in time, and begin a new life
from the present.'

It is all past and done with,' said
Phyllida musingly ; ' it can never trouble
me or any one again, thank God, and I
should be only too thankful to let it rest.
And you really think I shall be wise to do
so, cousin Penfold ? '

I think It is your duty to do so,' replied
the elder lady. * And now we had
better go in, Phylllda, for It Is eleven
o'clock, and Captain Barclay will never
allow any one but me to mix his glass of
toddy.'

Can't I take that trouble off your hands,
cousin Penfold,' asked the oflrl, lauehlno- :
you must let me help you, If I can, and I
am famous at mixing all kinds of drinks.'

I think I will dispense with your assistance
in this particular,' replied Mrs Penfold,
laughing also, * or we shall have the old
captain taking to drink for the sake of seeing
you stirring the lemon and whisky together.
You are too pretty for a handmaid, my dear
child, even for such a dried-up and salted

old gentleman as Captain Barclay.'

Phylllda seemed to have dropped a load
off her mind after this walk with her cousin,
for she laughed and talked quite merrily
until it was time to go to bed. But with
solitude the old distressing perplexities returned

to worry her, and Mrs Penfold heard
her moaning through her restless sleep. She
concluded, therefore, that the girl's body
wanted a little petting as well as her mind, and
commenced the cure by Insisting upon treating
her as an Invalid. She made her He In
bed late, and occupy the sofa when she came
downstairs, and fed her with strengthening
broths and jellies, till Phyllida was obliged
to remonstrate against being killed with too
much kindness. And on the evenlncr of the
third day, as she was dressing herself for a
walk, and Mrs Penfold appeared in her
bedroom with a look of mystery upon her
countenance, Phyllida wondered what new
remedy was going to be tried upon her.

Cousin Penfold,' she exclaimed, ' I
cannot take any more soup or jelly today.
I feel filled up to the very throat !
And I see you are bent upon physicking
me. I can read a new remedy written in
your face.' A

'Yes, my dear,' replied Mrs Penfold

seriously, ' I really have a new medicine that
I want you to take. I have been studying
your case, Phyllida, and I believe I have
hit on the proper cure, and I must insist
on your trying it.'

Anything to please you, cousin ! What
is it, food or physic t I hope it is not
very nasty 1 '

It doesn't look nasty,' said Mrs Penfold ;
but I haven't tasted it myself. Any way I
am sure it will do you good. Come down
and see.'

Haven't you got it with you ? '

No ; I left it in the parlour.'

All right ! I will come,' said Phyllida, as
she adjusted her hat. ' You are too good
to me, cousin Penfold,' she added, as she
wound her arm round the old lady's waist.
I should be ungrateful, indeed, to refuse
to try anything you see fit to recommend
to me.'

I recommend this strongly,' replied Mrs
Penfold, as they reached the parlour door.

Go in, my dear, and take it at once ; you
will find it by the side of the table.'

So saying she pushed Phyllida gently into
the parlour, where she saw standing by the
mantelpiece  Bernard Freshfield. Her first
impulse was to turn and fly ; but the door
was closed behind her, and Mrs Penfold was
descending the kitchen stairs.

Oh, Mr Freshfield ! ' she murmured with
crimson cheeks, ' is ihifair ?'

I will answer your question by another,
my Phyllida,' said Bernard, crossing to her
side, * was it fair of you to run away from
me without one word of warning ? '

I thought it best  I did not think you
would be so foolish as to follow me  and
after that day on the Brick Common Road,'
said Phyllida, flushing violently, ' after what
I said to you then, I did not feel as if I
could meet you again.'

After what you said to me on the Brick
Common Road,' he answered, looking full
into her eyes, * you had no longer any right

to think for yourself at all. Why did you
not give yourself to me that day ?  a freewill
offering  and is this the way you make
a present ? To give it one day and take
it away the next. But you are mine,
Phyllida, and you shall not rob me a second
time.'

I thought it best,' she reiterated. ' I
know it is best, that you should forget me,
Bernard ! '

'It is not best, it would be the very
worst ; besides, it is impossible. Phyllida,
I have prayed for years to God to send me
my soul's partner ! Am I to be so ungrateful,
now He has heard my prayer,
as to turn away and take no notice of it ?'

But perhaps you are mistaken,' she faltered
; ' people appear so different from what
they are  you might find out afterwards that
I am not the person you had imagined me
to be ! You know that I am not a good, religious
girl ! How shall I make a proper
parson's wife ? '

I do not know that you are not a good,
religious girl,' he answered, making her sit
down on the sofa by his side ; ' but if it is
the case, I shall marry my wife for myself,
not for my parish, and I shall keep her for
myself into the bargain. I am not on the
look-out for a female curate without stipend.
I want a companion, a friend, a second self!
Such an one I have found in you, Phyllida ;
and only one part of the question remains
to be solved in order to settle it satisfactorily,
and for ever. And that is. Do you
love me ? '

The month is not over yet,' she said,
temporising with her destiny.

I will not wait a month now for your
decision. I cannot ! Had you remained in
Bluemere I would have been patient, but
your sudden unexplained departure made
me so miserable, that I came away at a
moment's notice, and do not intend to return
home again without my wife.'

Oh, Bernard, that would be far too

sudden she cried. ' Think what a solemn
thing marriage is. Once done, It can
never be undone,' and there Phyllida pulled
herself up suddenly and was silent.

What Is the matter, my darling ? ' Inquired
Bernard tenderly ; ' did anything
frighten you ? I know all you would say,
Phyllida, and agree with It heartily. No
one thinks marriage a more solemn sacrament
than I do  a true marriage that is 
one hallowed by God and approved by
man, as ours will be.'

The girl shivered slightly, and pressed
closer to him. Freshfield Interpreted the
act as a sign of compliance, and joyfully
returned the pressure.

To prove to you the solemnity with
which I regard marriage, Phyllida, I will
repose In you a little confidence. I will
treat you as If you were already the beloved
partner of all my anxieties, and you
shall tell me If I have done right. Amongst
my parishioners I have a man and his wife.

as handsome and apparently as happy a
couple as you could see. The husband
especially Is devoted to his wife and her
children, and can see no fault in them.
Some months ago the woman was taken
dangerously 111  In fact, our doctor gave no
hopes of her, and she sent for me. I
found the husband almost heartbroken in
the lower room. He could not speak for
sobbing. All he could do was to point to
the upper chamber where his wife lay dying.
I went upstairs and found her in a state
of great excitement. She knew she was
given over, and she wished to speak to me
before she died. What was my horror on
receiving her confession to learn that for
years past she had been habitually unfaithful
to her husband, and that she was not
even sure which of her children belonged
to him. However, the unhappy woman
was apparently fast passing away, and my
duty was to soothe her last pains, by pointing
her to the one source of forgiveness

for all sin. I left her, as I thought, for ever
in this world. What was my astonishment
the next day to hear that her disorder
had taken a most unexpected turn in
the night, and she was in a fair road to
recovery. In a few weeks I heard that
she was up and about her domestic work
again, as bright and beautiful as before ;
and her husband adoring her more than
ever, for having been restored to him, as
it were, from the very jaws of death. Now
came my difficulty, Phyllida ! I had received
the wife's confidence under the seal
of confession, and although I have no High
Church proclivities, I am a man of honour,
and I consider that such a disclosure made
at such a moment should be held as sacred
as though it had never been revealed. And
yet when I saw the woman as careless and
unsubdued as she had ever been, and thought
of the unfortunate man she was, in all probability,
continuing to deceive, I wondered
where my duty lay, and whether I could

conscientiously permit him to live on, duped
and betrayed, when It was In my power to
open his eyes.

I cannot tell you how long this matter
puzzled me ; for how long I thought over
it and adjusted Its pros and cons, and
prayed to be guided to act aright. And
to what conclusion do you suppose that I
arrived ? '

I cannot tell,' said the girl half sobbing ;
tell me yourself, Bernard, I want to
know

Don't tremble so, my darling  the story
has a tolerable ending. How I argued
the matter out was thus : To tell the man
the truth (always supposing I could have
reconciled it with my conscience) would
have marred his life, and could not have
amended hers. It would have broken up
a happy home, the influence of which maybe
the means Intended by God to lead
her Into the right way at last. It would
have cast the man, blaspheming Heaven,

perhaps, for his disappointment, upon the
world, and turned his love for her offspring
into jealousy and hate.

I saw no end to the miseries my breach
of confidence might entail on the couple
and their children ; and I saw no especial
duty to urge me to it.

The fact that the wife had outraged
the sanctity of marriage only affected herself
; it could not undo that sanctity which
the husband had faithfully observed. And
so I left them to themselves and the mercy
of God, who can bring hidden things to
light if He so chooses without our intervention.
Was I rlorht or wrote ? '

Oh, you are right  always right and
always good,' said Phyllida clinging to
him ; ' and if I thought  if I were really
sure that you believe as you say, that a
marriage of love is a sacrament ordained
of Heaven that none of the lesser circumstances
of life should be permitted to outweigh
 '

If you were really sure of that, love,
what would you do ? ' whispered Bernard.

I would marry you tomorrow, and feel
myself  oh, so blest, to be your wife. ! '

Done with you ! ' cried our unorthodox
parson, as he smothered her with kisses.
You have passed your word, Phyllida,
and you shall not retract it. We will be
married tomorrow ! '

TilHEX Phylllda had thus stepped
over the boundary that divided
hesitation from consent, she
found there was no retraction for her. Bernard
had made Mrs Penfold acquainted with
his errand before he had seen Phyllida,
and she was naturally all on his side. That
her young orphan cousin should hesitate
for a moment to accept a man, young,
good-looking, a clergyman, and with two
thousand a-year, appeared incredible to
her ; and when Bernard called her in to
take part in the general council, she treated
all Phyllida's objections as mere affectation.

VOL. II. c

r .

The girl wished Bernard to consent to her
remaining a month or two at Gatehead
whilst he prepared the minds of his mother
and sister and the parish generally for
their marriage, and Freshfield wanted the
ceremony to take place there and then, in
fact he vowed he would not return to
Bluemere without her.

But it would be shocking  indelicate,'
urged Phyllida, * for you to marry without
giving them any notice ; what would they
say ? A clergyman's wedding is generally
such a thoroughly parochial affair.'

And would you like it to be so, Phyllida ?
Would you like to go to church in Blue-mere
with every old woman in the parish
gazing at you and picking holes in your
dress or your bonnet ? '

Oh no ; you know I should not. I
shall shrink from the scrutiny of the old
women more than anything. I don't think
I could go through with it, without you
by my side. Only I am nobody, you see ;

but for your own sake, Bernard, and for
Mrs Freshfield's, ought you not to endure
the miseries of a public wedding ? '

The young man looked thoughtful.

There is something in your argument,
Phyllida, and it proceeds from a good and
pure motive, as all your proposals do. But
I think I can overcome It without infringing
my duty. In the first place, nothing would
persuade me to take part in an ordinary
wedding feast again. I did It once. I
swore before heaven to love and honour
a woman whom I hardly loved, and was
not all sure I could honour, and I sat
through the public breakfast that succeeded
it, feeling like a criminal escaped
from justice. We wont have anything
of that sort again. This will be a very
different wedding, my love, from the other
it must be celebrated in a* different way.'

But oh, Bernard,' cried Phyllida, hiding
her face against his shoulder, ' if she came so
short of what you desired, what shall / do ? '

6 Phyllida.

You will do as I tell you ? ' said the
young man fondly. ' You will marry mein
Gatehead in the course of the next few-days,
and let the astonishment and the
cackle of Bluemere subside before we show
our faces there again ? Mrs Penfold, come
and plead my cause with this obstinate
girl ! You are, I believe, her nearest relation
in England  give your sanction to
my plan, and make Phyllida hear reason.'

Indeed, Mr Freshfield, I see no cause
whatever why you should not have your
own way. If you were a young boy, or a
private gentleman, or one of those nasty
soldiers that run about making love to
every woman they meet, why, I might say
it would be better to wait, and see whether
you didn't change your mind. But Phyllida
mustn't forget that you are her minister as
well as her lover, and that she is in a
measure bound to follow your precepts, and
certainly not responsible for acting wrong
whilst under your direction.'

Capitally put, Mrs Penfold. You area
first-rate advocate. Do you hear that,
Phyllida ? I am not going to ask you anymore
 I am going to order you. And
your cousin says you are bound to obey.'

I see that between the two of you I
am not likely to get my own way,' replied
Phyllida, smiling.

Of course not, when it is a bad way.
Listen to me, dear ; this is what I propose.
Let us get a licence, and be married as
privately as possible in the church here.
Then I will take you to Switzerland or to
Paris, or anywhere you most fancy, and
thence I will write and let my people hear
the truth. Remember, Phyllida, that, as
Mrs Penfold says, I am not a boy, and
responsible to no one for my actions ; and
I have often told my mother that if I
married again it should be as private a
proceeding as the conduct of any other
sacrament. Will you consent to this,
dearest ? Will you come alone with me

and Mrs Penfold some morning, and take
the vows that will bind us together for
life ? '

I will do anything you wish me to do,'
replied Phyllida. ' Henceforward, I am
yours only to command.'

May my orders never be more than the
fulfilment of your own wishes,' said Bernard,
embracing her ; and then he rose
and went to his hotel to dinner, and left
the two women in a flutter of excitement
at the unexpected turn events had taken.

I knew there was a gentleman in the
case,' cried Mrs Penfold, as she half
smothered Phyllida in her excess of congratulations.
* I could read the sirens in
your eyes, and guessed at once you had
had a disappointment in love. But, bless
you, my child, what made you give the
poor fellow the trouble of following you all
the way to Gatehead ? Though I daresay
it will turn out for the best in the end ; for a
private wedding, in my opinion, is far more

agreeable than a public one, and no one
can blame Mr Freshfield for wishing" to
keep it holy ; but why you didn't accept
such a charming, well-mannered young man
on the spot I can't imagine. And with a
couple of thousand a-year of his own, too,
and more comines in at his mother's death.
Phyllida, my dear, you must have been crazy! '

I only asked for a month to decide in,'
said the girl. ' I suppose I always knew
I should accept him (in the end), but I
never thought of his money, cousin Pen-fold,
nor even of his appearance ! He is so
earnest and so right thinking that I  I feel
he is far too good for me.'

Ah, well, my dear, that's a very proper
feeling for a wife to begin her married life
with ; but you'll find it wear off in time.
I remember when Mr Penfold first proposed
to me, I fancied I should never be able
to look to his dinners and the getting up
of his shirts as he had been used to have
them, but I found it all came easy enough

when 1 was once mistress of his house.
And so will you  and you'll make a first-rate
parson's wife, take my word for it.
But fancy your being married from my
poor little place in Gatehead, instead of
Charlotte's fine cottage orde in Bluemere.
Wont she be mad when she hears of it ? '

She will, indeed,' cried Phyllida, with
sudden glee. * They'll be mad all round !
For, do you know, cousin Penfold, they
thought me so wicked in Bluemere, because
I didn't go to church, that the other ladies
looked at me as if I were a strange animal,
and cousin Pinner Invited the parson to
come and convert me ! '

And he has converted you, my dear,
there's no doubt of that ! ' exclaimed the
elder lady ; ' but, Phyllida, I hope It Is
not true that you don't like going to
church, because that weill look very bad
In a parson's wife, and, I feel sure, will bea
cause of annoyance to Mr Freshfield.'

Oh, cousin Penfold, do you think I

would annoy him ? ' asked the girl, v/Ith
her soft eyes full of tears. ' No, not for
worlds ; and of course I shall go to church
when he does, for the pleasure of looking
at him.'

I am not sure that that Is a rIo;ht
motive for attending divine worship, my
dear,' commenced Mrs Penfold primly ; but
Phylllda shut her mouth with a kiss.

Don't talk like that, please. You do
look so like cousin Pinner when you say
such things. I know It's all true and right,
and that / am In the wronor not to think
just the same, only I don't, you know, and
so it reminds me of my own wickedness
and makes me unhappy. Let us talk about
my clothes instead. They will need a lot
of consultation, for, do you know, cousin
Penfold, I have only about eight pounds left,
and I know that will buy very little. So I
must just get a nice dress to be married In,
and let the rest go.'

My dear, that is very awkward,' said Miss

Penfold, looking puzzled ; * I never thought of
it ; but you cannot be married without some
new clothes  it is impossible'"

That is nonsense, cousin. If I am to be
married at all, I must be married as I am,
because I have no more money.'

We must find ways and means, Phyllida.
It is not much I can give you, but still I have
a few pounds in the Savings Bank, and
Charlotte ought, I am sure, to contribute a
liberal sum towards your trousseau.'

Cousin Penfold, of what are you thinking ?
Do you imagine I would be so mean as to
touch a halfpenny of the little provision you
have put by for yourself, and after you so
generously received me in your house ? No,
indeed ! I would starve first ! Neither would
I accept anything from cousin Pinner. She
does not love me, and I would not lay myself
under an obligation to her.'

But, my child, what are you to do 1 Someone
must provide you with such things. Mr
Freshfield was thoughtful enough to give me ,

a hint on the subject himself, and tell me to
make what use of his purse I chose ; but,
perhaps you are too proud to owe it to him,
either.'

I am too proud to owe it to any one,'
replied the girl. ' If Bernard insists upon
marrying me, as King Cophetua did the
beggar maid, he must marry me in rags. I
will buy a nice travelling dress and hat with
my money, that I may not disgrace him outwardly,
and for the rest I will wait till I have
the right to accept his bounty.'

Mrs Penfold was unable to make Phyllida
change her mind, so the simple wardrobe
with which she travelled to Gatehead was
repacked, to be ready to accompany her on
her wedding tour.

Bernard Freshfield was a very fond and
happy lover during those few days of waiting,
and as Phyllida sat with him on the beach, or
strolled along the glowworm lighted cliffs,
and listened to the outpourings of his pure
and high-toned mind, she felt sometimes

terribly afraid, and sometimes deliciously
happy, to think that her life would be so soon
inextricably mingled with his own.

Mrs Penfold trusted her to order the dress
In which she was to be married and leave
Gatehead with her husband, but was horrified
on Its being sent home to find that it
was made of some black material.

My dear,' she exclaimed, ' you can never
wear this !'

Why not ?' demanded Phyllida, with wide
open eyes.

Black, my dear ! black at a wedding.
Why, It's the most unlucky thing in the
world, and will bring death to all your
hopes of happiness.'

Phyllida's face grew pallid as a lily, whilst
her eyes blazed with a sudden premonition
of ill.

Take It away she cried hysterically ;
'burn It, do anything you like with the
horrid thing. I would sooner be married
now In one of Sarah's print frocks.'

But Bernard was close at hand to soothe
and quiet her.

Please, Mrs Penfold,' he said, ' don't put
such silly ideas In my little girl's head.
Do you know that If I have contempt for
one thing above another, it Is for superstition.
How can a colour possibly affect
our life's happiness ? It depends solely on
ourselves and the goodness of God ! If
Phyllida wishes to please me, she will wear
this dress at our marriage if only to prove
that she Is above such foolish fancies.'

You are quite, quite sure, Bernard, that
there is nothing in It ? ' demanded Phyllida,
still trembling.

Quite, quite sure my darling,' he repeated,
as he drew her to him, and Phyllida
wore the sombre dress on the day of her
wedding as he had desired her to do. But
Mrs Penfold's fears were not to be so easily
allayed.

I wouldn't have had it happen for a five-pound
note,' she confided to Sarah In the

kitchen ; ' however, he wishes It, and he's a
clergyman, so of course one's mouth is
stopped. But I shall never feel so comfortable
about this marriage as I did, and  
you mark my words, Sarah  misfortune will
come upon them in one shape or another
before many months have gone over their
heads.'

However, they were married one morning
as early as custom would permit, and
walked straight from the church to the railway
station, looking as happy as if they
were driving off In a carriage and four,
pursued by old slippers and showers of rice.
Phyllida still voted for the country and
quiet, vice the bustle and sights of town,
therefore her husband carried her off to
Lynton, in Devonshire, where they could
enjoy the beauties of nature and each other's
society to their heart's content.

And Mrs Penfold, notwithstanding the
handsome presents which Bernard gave her
in return for her kindness to Phyllida, felt

very lonely when the beautiful face that had
brightened her home for ten short days was
gone again, and almost wished the parson
had never found his way to Gatehead.
Meanwhile things were rather dull in Blue-mere.
Miss Janet Muckheep was quite as
annoyed as Mrs Freshfield at the sudden
disappearance of her son, and notwithstanding
the absence of all ' carnal procleevities '
in her composition, exhibited decided ill-temper
at the derangement of her plans.

'Hoot, Mrs Fraichfield ! ' she ejaculated;
sin your minister sonne ha' sic ill manners
as to bide wa' fra Breear-wud whiles
we stay at Blue Mount, it's time that Bella
and I gang or ways to Barrick-gallagas.'

But why should my son's absence shorten
your stay, dear Miss Janet, when you know
how honoured I feel by your visit here ?
I do not know but what Bernard will soon
return. He is only gone to the sea-side fora
little change. I think the dear boy maybe
suffering from suspense and anxiety on

a certain subject,' said Mrs Freshfield, with
a meaning glance at the inanimate Bella,
and has left home to collect his thoughts
a little. He may have conceived hopes
which he fears may not be realised.'

'Ay,' said Miss Janet, 'but it's no the
way to ken a lassie's mind to rin wa' fra
the carry sight of her. And I steel say,
we ha' better be moving' homewards, Mrs
Fraichfield. Blue Mount is na the onely
loose wha the doors stan' open to receive
the sister and daughter of the Laird o'
Muckheep ; nor your meenester son the
onely carle who'll be proud to mix his
fluid wi' that of the kings o' Scotland.
And so we'll be leaving' you the morrow,
an' sic Mr Fraichfield ha' a mind to the
daughter o' the Muckheeps, he maun find
his ain way to Barrick-gallagas Carse.'

 So foolish of your brother,' moaned
Mrs Freshfield in confidence to Laura, as
the carriage which conveyed the Muck-keeps
to Westertown rolled down the

avenue ; ' and such a chance to miss ! I
am sure Miss Janet was inclined to look
favourably on his suit, and that sweet girl
has been trained to obey her aunt in all
things. If Bernard had but remained and
paid Bella a little attention, they would
have been engaged before they parted

I'm very glad he didn't,' replied Laura
bluntly. ' Mamma, how cii you wish for
such a thing ? To see Berne married to
that red-cheeked booby of a girl. Why,
her accent alone is enough \o set one's
teeth on edge. I'm sure I hope my
brother has better taste. I know if he
married Bella Muckheep / would never set
foot in Briarwood.*

Laura, I am surprised at you, after all
my teaching and exhortation and care !
How can you speak of a dear, Christian
girl in such terms, and one with the oldest
blood in Scotland running in her veins } Do
you know that the lairds o' Muckheep rank
as princes of the soil in their native country?'

VOL. II. D

Soiled princes,' laughed Laura, irreverently
; * well, mamma, If the oldest blood In
Scotland was to be recognised by Its colour,
I might be able to judge of Its purity by
the purple bloom on Bella's cheeks. Her
complexion after dinner was just like pickled
cabbage. But I must be content to accept
the truth on your authority. Any way, I
don't want to see it mixed .with ours. A
troop of little Belles at the rectory would
be "quite too awfully awful"'

If you are going to take refuge in slang,
Laura,' replied Mrs Freshfield loftily, ' we
will drop the subject. But I must say this
is not the way in which I expected my
children to receive my most honoured guests.
My son leaves Bluemere without even bidding
them farewell, and my daughter ' 
witheringly  'my daughter ridicules to my
face the most virtuous and religious young
lady I ever had the privilege of meeting ! '

Oh, I know nothing against her virtue
or her religion,' laughed Laura, ' although

for aught I saw of either of them she might
as well have had none. To me, Bella Muck-keep
is simply a very stupid young woman,
who has been rendered more so than was
natural, by never having been allowed to
exercise her own faculties. However, as
you say, mamma, pray let us change the
subject, for we shall never agree upon it.
Isn't it strange that we have not heard again
from Berne. It is nearly a fortnight now
since he went away. I wonder if he is
still at that place  what was it ?  Gatehead,
from which he first wrote.'

I don't know, my dear, I am sure. Your
brother has not condescended to make me
the confidante of his proceedings.'

Berne always hated letter - writing,
mamma ; but I think we must hear from
him again soon. Ah, there Is the old postman
coming up the avenue. Three to one
that he .brings the letter we want. I will go
and meet him.' And away flew Laura down
the carriage drive, with bounding steps, like.

So''-'"'

a girl let loose from school. Mrs Freshfield
looked after her with pride, and yet she
sighed. She really loved these bright outspoken,
honest children, which she had
brought into the world, but her own training
had been so conventional, that she was
unable to reconcile their mirth, and apparently
light treatment of serious subjects,
with any deeper feeling. The religion she
had been brought up in was like Miss Janet's
a religion of darkness and devils and hell.
she had but the poorest conception of the
goodness and love of the Almighty, and
believed that He sat in judgment over the
world, for the simple purpose of trying how
many unfortunate mortals he could catch
tripping, and condemn to eternal pains. A
religion of brightness and beauty, and a
Father's watchful love, such as Bernard held,
she shook her head at, as an over confidence
not far removed from actual sin. And,
as for Laura, she could not believe but that
the unfortunate girl was utterly unregenerate.

and would remain so, until reclaimed by
some fearful loss or bodily suffering. INIrs
Freshfields was truly a religion and nothing
more. A certain course of action strictly
adhered to, for fear of eternal damnation, but
as for the faith that Bernard had in God 
the faith that if his human wisdom led him
wrong, he had a Father who could make
allowance for the defects in His own creation,
of that his mother knew nothing,
and so she was a most unhappy Christian,
who went moan in 2: through this world in
anticipation of the torments of the next.

Laura came bounding up the drive again,
holding a letter above her head, in token
that her hopes had been realised.

Here it is, mamma,' she cried, as she came
up to the old lady. ' I knew there would bea
letter from Berne to-day. And the postmark
is Lynton. He has got down to Devon.
I thought he would soon tire of the sea-side at
this season. There must be too many " Bobs
and 'Army's " there just now to suit his taste.'

She thrust the letter into her mother's lap
as she spoke.

Be quick and read it, mamma ! I am
dying to hear what our boy is about.'

Mrs Freshfield broke open the envelope,
and commenced to peruse her son's epistle.
She read part of the first page, and then she
turned to the second and third in an aimless
sort of way, and, leaving them, began again
at the beginning, whilst her face twitched,
and she bit her lip and changed all sorts of
colours. Laura, who was watching her
earnestly, grew quite alarmed.

Mamma ! mamma ! what is the matter ? '
she asked quickly.

Mrs Freshfield's answer was to drop the
letter in her lap and begin to cry. The
tears of the young are of little consequence ;
they come and go like a storm in summer,
but it is a terrible thing to see an old person
cry. Laura dropped on her knees by her
mother's side.

Darling ! ' she exclaimed affectionately.

'what can affect you In this manner? Is
Bernle ill or unhappy, or in any difficulty ?
Oh, mother dear ! you can't think what I
am suffering. Don't keep me in suspense ! '

Read ! read ! ' ejaculated Mrs Freshfield,
pointing to the letter. Laura seized it instantly.


Am I to read it aloud, mamma ? '

Yes I I must learn to bear it. Read me
what your misguided brother says.'
And Laura began, 

Queen's Hotel, Lynton.

My dearest Mother,  I have something
to tell you that I fear may startle 
though I trust it may not grieve you. And
let me premise what a dear good mother you
have ever been to me, and how much I love
and reverence you in return. Don't think
that I ever lose sight of your happiness in
any action of my life ; but then I have such
a strong belief that my happiness must
necessarily be yours also.'

Mother, dear, what Is there to make
you cry in this ? ' demanded Laura, stopping
short In her perusal of the letter. ' Berne
writes as he always does to you, in the
most loving and dutiful strain, like the very
best of sons, as he has ever been.'

Go on  read what he tells me,' replied
Mrs Freshfield, In a tone of despair.

You have often expressed a wish that
I should marry again, and I have felt
myself great need of the comfort and rest
that a happy marriage can alone afford a
man in my position. What will you say
when I tell you that I have taken a wife ?
Your first feeling will be, perhaps, a rather
natural annoyance that I did not previously
consult you, and that I should have married
away from Bluemere  '

Married! ' cried Laura, dropping the
letter again, 'really and actually married!
Oh, my dear, dear Berne, how I do hope
he will be truly happy at last.'

I am afraid there is little chance of that
Laura,' said her mother solemnly, ' an union
entered into without the blessing of either
parents or friends can never be a really
happy one.'

I think my brother believes that the
blessing of God is all that is actually necessary,'
replied her daughter, ' and he has
that, I am sure. And why should he not
have ours as well ? '

Will you be good enough to proceed
with Bernard's letter ? ' said Mrs Fresh-field,
who, having nothing to say in refutation
of Laura's last remark, considered it
advisable to return to the grievance in
hand. ' I confess I should like to know
wJio it is that has seduced your brother
to forget his duty.'

Oh, to be sure ; who can it be  ' exclaimed
Laura curiously, ' let me see 
where was I ? Oh, here.'

That I should have married away from

Bluemere, but I had my own reasons
for acting as I have done. To consult
you in the matter when you had formed
such different projects concerning me,
would have been simply to raise a discussion
which might have produced ill
feeling between us, and with regard to
Bluemere I had long determined that I
would never assail undergo the horrors
of a formal wedding amongst my parishioners.
Added to this, I made up my
mind to marry Phyllida Moss  '

Who ?' cried Mrs Freshfield with horror.

Mamma ! mamma ! don't look like that 
you frighten me. Yes ; it really is Phyllida
Moss, the girl who came to Briarv/ood with
Mrs Pinner. I heard she had left the
village a few days before Bernard. It
must have been a concerted plan between
them, and  good gracious me, mamma, he
has only known her about three weeks ! '

Get me my bonnet and shawl and order

round the pony chaise,' exclaimed ]airs
Freshfield indignantly ; ' this is some doing
of that wicked woman Mrs Pinner, and
I will eo and tell her so to her face.
She always had a sly catty look to me.'

Pray, mamma, don't do any such thing.
You are not in a fit state to discuss this
matter with any stranger, besides, we don't
know that Mrs Pinner is even aware of
the event. I met her yesterday, and she
said her cousin was staying with her sister.
Listen to the rest of the letter, mamma.
It may contain some consolation.'

'Phyllida Moss!' ejaculated ]airs Fresh-field,
' a girl of whom we know nothing,
who may be a heathen or a Mahometan.
Why, I heard your brother himself call
her a barbarian.'

Oh, that was intended as a compliment,
mamma. I saw Berne admired her the day
we met at Briarwood. And she is very
lovely  you will allow that  you said yourself
you had never seen such a pair of eyes.'

Beauty is vain, Laura, and a fine pair
of eyes will not give us admittance into
heaven. My poor, misguided son ! Led
away by one of the daughters of Heth
to take part in a disgraceful elopement.'

Hardly that, mamma. You must not
forget that Berne was twenty - eight
last birthday, and has no occasion to
elope with any one. But shall I finish
the letter ? '

Yes, yes, go on. I may as well hear
the miserable story to the end.'

Added to this, I made up my mind
to marry Phyllida Moss rather suddenly,
and I could hardly expect those who
do not know her as I do, to enter into
the feelings which caused my resolution.
I am not going to expose myself to your
ridicule by indulging in a lovers rhapsody
upon the merits of my young wife ; but
you have seen her face, and it is but an
index to her mind. Phyllida is pure and

innocent as a child, and entirely devoted
to me.

I look forward to a life of complete
contentment in her society, and feel for
the first time that a dual existence can be
truly one. I do not wish to remain away
longer than is necessary, and hope to
take my wife home to Briar wood next
week. Let me have a line to say that
she will find a mother and sister to welcome
her to Blue ]\Iount, and I shall be
entirely happy.  Ever, dearest mother,
your dutiful son,

Bernard Freshfield.'

You will send him that, mother, will you
not ?' cried Laura eagerly, as she finished
the letter. * You will write to dear Berne,
and tell him that all we can do to increase
the happiness of his married life is his without
the asking. And, for my own part, I feel
we shall like her,' continued the warm-hearted
girl. ' I took such a fancy to her sweet, sad

face that day at Briarwood ; and there was
something In her, I can hardly tell what it
was, but very different from other girls of her
age  as if she had passed through some great
experience that made her look down upon idle
chatter and gossip and games. That is the
right sort of wife for our Berne, for he hates
the ordinary type of young lady. ' Don't you
think we shall love Phyllida, mamma 1 . We
must, you know, for Berne's sake.'

We will try to do so, my dear, at all
events,' replied Mrs Freshfield ; ' but whether
she will prove worthy of our affection is an
unanswerable question. If your brother
chooses to marry a girl he has only known
for a month, he must take the consequences.
But I will never forgive Mrs Pinner for
having kept us in ignorance of what was
about to happen.'

And, notwithstanding all her daughter's
efforts to prevent her, the old lady insisted.
upon being driven in state to Mrs Pinner's
cottage, as soon as ever the carriage returned.

o

from Westertown. She found that lady In a
very gay and festive cap, streaming with lilac
ribbons, and a shawl woven of many colours,
like Joseph's coat, upon her shoulders.
poring over a cheerful publication, entitled
The Opening of the Sixth Seal, or the
Final State of the Wicked.' She came
forward with alacrity to welcome her visitor,
but }Irs Freshfield loftily waved aside her
proffered hand.

I see that you have put on your wedding
finery to receive me, Mrs Pinner,' the lady
of Blue Mount commenced with icy dignity ;
but I should have considered it more decent
and suitable to the occasion. If you had
appeared in a garb of mourning.'

Poor Mrs Pinner, to whom this address
was as intelligible as if it had been delivered
in Arabic, could only gasp in answer, ' I
really do not understand you, sirs Fresh-field.'


Not understand me !' exclaimed her visitor.
' Oh, do not add duplicity to your concealment,

Mrs Pinner. You must have
known the preconceived purpose for which
your niece (or whatever she is) left Blue-mere.'


My niece  do you mean my cousin Phyllis
Moss ? She is staying with my sister
Maria at Gatehead.'

And do you mean to tell me that Phyllida
Moss has not written to you, nor your sister
Maria, nor my son, nor anybody ?'

Written to me ! Why ? On what
subject ? Mrs Freshfield, what can you
mean ? I have heard nothing from
Gatehead for the last fortnight.'

Then, if I am to believe you, Mrs
Pinner, you have been as wilfully kept
in ignorance as myself, and this misfortune
must have been brought about through
the machinations of your unprincipled sister
at Gatehead.'

Oh dear ! oh dear ! What has she
done ? ' cried Mrs Pinner piteously.

Done ? She has just done this. She

has married your cousin Phyllida Moss,
to my son, the rector of Bluemere.'

The final state of the wicked went down
to the around with a crash.

'What!' ejaculated Mrs Pinner, in earpiercing
tones.

'You may well ask what?' replied Mrs
Freshfield, sinking into a chair. ' I have
just received a letter from my son, dated
from Devonshire, where he is staying with
your cousin, and they have been married
for a fortnight.'

Oh ! that wicked, wicked girl ! ' cried Mrs
Pinner, tumbling into another chair. * I
might have guessed what would come of
her never going to church, or reading the
Scriptures, and all her other heathen, godless
ways. And my sister, too, to dare to
consent to such a clandestine proceeding.
I always said that Maria was most carnally
minded, and needed the rod of
divine love to bruise her hard heart, before
she could take her stand with the elect.'

VOL. II. E

And yet you confided Miss Moss to the
care of so worldly a person,' said Mrs
Freshfield sharply.

Dear Mrs Freshfield ! What could I
do ? The girl was her own mistress, and
insisted upon leaving me ! The ways of
grace did not suit her  she sighed for the
leeks and garlic of Egypt, and her example
was not edifying to the young creatures that
come to my house. But little did I guess
the purpose that was in her mind. Married
to Mr Freshfield ! the wife of our
esteemed and reverend minister ! He to
whom we all look up as to an oracle,
married to Phyllida Moss ! Oh, it is
quite incredible ! Like some fearful dream.'

If it appears so incredible to you, you
may fancy what it does to me, Mrs Pinner !
I shall not easily get over the shock I
received this morning. My son is of
course his own master, and should be
able to decide for himself In such matters ;
but I cannot but believe that In this

instance his eyes have been blinded and
his judgment led astray.'

Led astray ! I should indeed say so,
and by that artful, designing girl to. What
will the parish say ? and poor dear Miss
Warren, it will go near to break her heart.
She positively dotes so upon the minister.
And to think that Phyllida Moss is to bethe
mistress of Briarwood ! It is too,
too dreadful ! It would serve her right
if all Bluemere were to cut her. But you
must absolve me from all complicity in
this dreadful affair. I stood guarantee
for neither her moral nor religious training.
I told our dear minister plainly what
a heathen she was, and that no words nor
exhortations of mine made any impression
upon her ! Oh, she is the most
ungodly creature, Mrs Freshfield ; careless
and irreverent to a degree ! It is shocking
to think of her \i2Mm presumed to accept
so exalted a position as that of your
daughter-in-law and your son's wife.'

But Mrs Pinner had gone far enough in
Mrs Freshfield's opinion, and at this juncture
she pulled her up sharply. It had
suddenly occurred to the rector's mother
that it was slightly undignified for her to
sit and listen to abuse of a girl who (whatever
her faults might be) was indissolubly
the wife of her son.

'There, there, Mrs Pinner, I think that
is sufficient, you never said a word about
this to me before, and I daresay your imagination
is running away with you now. If
you had no hand in planning this marriage,
the least said about it the better; and if
you take my advice, you will not repeat
what you have said to me to your neighbours.
My son is very determined, you
know, and it may make things unpleasant
in Bluemere, if it comes to his ears that
his wife's character has been discussed in
this familiar way amongst his parishioners.
He intends to bring Mrs Bernard Fresh-field
home to Brairwood next week, and

it behoves us all to receive her in a manner
befitting our minister's choice. Whether
it will prove a happy marriage for him is
quite another thing, but I am sure he will
be quick to resent the least affront offered
to his wife.'

Mrs Pinner was sharp enough to take
the cue.

Of course, dear Mrs Freshfield, and I
should never d7'ea7n of mentioning what I
did to any one but yourself, and especially
when every girl in Bluemere has been setting
her cap at the minister for the last
two years. I am naturally very proud
to think his choice should have fallen on
my little cousin, who (notwithstanding a
wayward disposition) has many excellent
qualities, which will, doubtless, under dear
Mr Freshfield's training, render her in time
all that could be desired as a minister's
wife.'

But Mrs Freshfield was not to be taken
in by this sudden change of opinion. She

gave Mrs Pinner some supplementary cautions,
and then returned to Laura's presence,
metaphorically wringing her hands.

A nice thing your brother has done,'
she commenced complainingly  it was a
remarkable coincidence that, in these confidences
between mother and daughter whenever
Bernard did wrong, he was Laura's
brother, and whenever he did right he
was Mrs Freshfield's son. ' Mrs Pinner,
who had that unhappy girl under her
care whilst she was in Bluemere, says
she is a perfect heathen  a godless, irreverent
heathen  and everybody in the
parish knows it.'

I should like to wring Mrs Pinner's
neck cried Laura. * What business has
she to speak of Bernard's wife in such
terms } Why did you listen to her, mamma .'
I should have got up and left the room.
Now that the marriage is a completed thing,
we shall only cut our own throats by not
making the best of it ! I intend to call at

every house in Bluemere. and say It was
the very thing we secretly longed for.'

Just what I told Mrs Pinner, my dear,'
replied Mrs Freshfield, veering round like
a weathercock. ' I took her severely to task
for daring to mention anything but what
was favourable of a lady whom my son has
honoured by making his wife. But she is
an impertinent old gossip, and I hope that
Bernard will not encourage her visits to
Briarwood.'

I am afraid Berne will be led entirely
by Phyllida's wishes  at all events for the
present,' laughed Laura ; ' our poor boy is
very much in the chains, mamma, and all
that remains for us to do as good friends
and Christians, is to lend our aid to rivet
them as tightly on him as possible.'

Don't let us forget that it is his happiness
that is at stake,' continued Laura,
her bright eyes filled with tears of affection
; ' and make up our minds to see
only what is good in Phyllida for Berne's

sake. And I'll tweak the ears of anybody
whom I hear saying a word against her,'
she concluded, with a sudden change of
feeling.

Of course the parson's marriage was the
one theme of discussion in Bluemere for
many days after that. Never had more tea
been drunk or muffins buttered, in the course
of a single week, in the memory of the
oldest inhabitant. The ladies, married and
single, rushed from house to house, retailing
the extraordinary occurrence over and over
again with such scraps of information as
Mrs Pinner had gathered from her sister
Mrs Penfold. Lamentations ran high, and
prognostications of evil were plentifully exchanged
between the far-seeing ones. The
young ladies were naturally in despair, and
only the poor really rejoiced that the man
they loved had struck out a new source of
happiness for himself. Everybody in the
village had been very anxious to see how
Miss Annie Warren would bear the news,

for her hopes with regard to Briarwood had
been patent to the world. Many were the
ambassadors therefore who were sent to her
mothers house to ascertain, if possible, her
feelings on the subject, and to gloat over,
with true feminine charity, the disappointment
which they trusted she would be
unable to conceal.

But Miss Warren was too sharp for them,
and not a soul caught a glimpse of her
countenance until she had had time to place
a mask upon It ; but then the first thing she
did was to walk over to Blue Nlount with
her congratulations, and deliver a panegyric
on the bride.

Such a pretty creature,' she said, in
speaking of Phyllida. ' I am sure, Mrs
Freshfield, that In your wildest dreams you
never imagined a more beautiful daughter-in-law.
She will be quite an ornament to
Briarwood, and we shall all have to mind
our personal appearance when she rules
Bluemere. I used to say that everything

Miss Moss  I mean Mrs Bernard Fresh-field
 put on, became her.'

Yes, she has a lovely face, there is no
doubt of that. Miss Warren,' replied Mrs
Freshfield ; ' and if she is not very conversant
with parish duties at first, I shall
look to you to give her a few lessons.
You are quite my dear son's right hand
(as you were poor Alice's), and I am sure
he will be only too much obliged to you
if you will make Phyllida as useful as
yourself. He writes me she is a perfect
child in innocence. Therefore we need not
doubt she will prove as child-like in following
her husband's wishes.'

Miss Annie Warren coughed, but that was
all the answer she directly made to the old
lady's remark.

I shall be ready to help Mr Freshfield,
as I have ever been,' she said, as she rose,
basket on arm, to take her leave, ' whether
it be with the parish or anything else. But
I fancy, from what I have seen of her, that

Mrs Bernard will do the parochial work
her own way, and stick to it. Good-bye,
Mrs Freshfield. We are decoration the
church with white flowers for the minister
next Sunday. He will receive the heartiest
congratulations on his marriage from everyone
of his parishioners.'

And so Miss Annie Warren craftily concealed
her feelings in her own breast.
But they lay there unsubdued, all the same,
and only she knew what they were.

RS FRESH FIELD having apparently
condoned the irregularity
of her son's second marriage, all
Bluemere prepared itself to receive the bride
and bridegroom with open arms. They
would have rung the church bells, and decorated
the village with triumphal arches
and floral welcomes, had Bernard been
weak enough to disclose the day of his return.
But he much feared the display of
some such manifestation, and kept the
matter a secret, even from his mother. So
that she and Laura were sitting in the
drawing-room one afternoon, waiting for the

announcement of dinner, and actually speculating
on the probabilities of Bernard
speedy advent, when they looked up and
saw him standing on the threshold, with
Phyllida upon his arm. They had driven
over from Westertown in a hired vehicle,
and managed to reach Bluemere without a
soul being cognisant of the event. As
they walked up the carriage drive together,
Bernard had said to his wife, 

Are you nervous, Phyllida ? Does the
idea of meeting my mother make you
afraid ? ' and she had looked up in his face
and answered, 

Afraid! No; why should I be ? If
I was not afraid of marrying you, I need
hardly be so of meeting your relations.
Nothing can unmake me your wife, can it,
Bernard ? '

Nothing, my darling, thank God,' replied
Freshfield. 'You are mine for ever
and ever.'

So, as they stood upon the threshold together,

smiling, they looked more like people
who feel their presence brings a pleasant
surprise than offenders returning home to
sue for pardon.

Berne ! ' cried Laura, in a tone of rapture,
as she jumped up and ran into her
brother's arms. * Oh ! how delightful it is
to see you again. Mamma and I were
just wondering when you would return,'
and then as freely, if not as ardently, Laura
embraced her new sister. * Dear Phyllida,
we must be the very best and nearest of
friends, for I feel somewhat I shall love
you very much.'

Don't be too sure,' replied Phyllida, smiling.
* I have only one merit, and that is,
I am Bernard's wife.'

And that would be all sufficient,' said
Laura heartily. She forgot for the moment
how powerless the fact had proved to make
her love the oirl who smouldered in the
churchyard.

But Bernard, who had got over the first

rather tearful greeting which Mrs Fresh-field
bestowed upon him, now took Phyllis's
hand and led her up to his mother.

This is my wife' he said gravely. ' I
will not ask my friends to love her until
they do so for her own sake, but I want
them to remember always that, in my eyes,
she is sacred!

Mrs Freshfield had not quite made up
her mind whether she should receive the
bride as if she were a duchess or a milkmaid,
that is, if she should curtsey to the
ground with mock humility, or express her
welcome in the most familiar of nods. But
Bernard's address contained so much of
warning, that the weaker nature succumbed
to his. She took her daughter-in-law's hand,
and kissed her on the cheek as she said, 

My dear, I do not anticipate having to
love you for any reason, excepting that you
are yourself.'

You are all too kind to me,' faltered
Phyllida, in return.

She was looking very lovely In some
soft grey costume, that her enraptured husband
had purchased for her, and when (the
travellers having shaken the dust from their
garments and removed the effects of a railway
journey) the family sat down to the
dinner-table, the ladies of Blue Mount were
compelled to admit that a fairer guest than
the second Mrs Bernard Freshfield had
never graced their board. The old servants,
who had been in the family for any
number of years, could hardly take their
eyes off her as they moved about the room ;
and Bernard's spirits rose to a most un-clerical
height as he observed the favourable
impression she made.

As for Phyllida herself, except for an occasional
glance of affection at her husband,
she seemed perfectly unmoved by the silent
homage paid her. She neither blushed nor
giggled ; no consciousness of her position
as a bride made her hurried or nervous.
She leant back in her chair as easy and

unconstrained In her manners as if she had
Heed at Blue Mount all her life. Yet
Laura could not help observing that the
pathetic expression she had marked in
Miss Moss's countenance had not deserted
that of ]\lrs Bernard Freshfield, and that
Phyllida still looked more like a lovely
martyr than a happy bride. She admired
her sister-in-law all the more for beings
different from ordinary young ladies, but
the look in her face haunted her and raised
a host of conjectures which she dare not
breathe to any one but herself. Almost as
soon as dinner was over, Bernard asked
for the carrlaoe to take them to Briarwood,
as he was afraid the long railway journey
had fatigued his wife.

'And do you mean to say Mrs Garnett
does not know of your arrival ? ' said Laura.
Why, Berne, she'll have a fit. She has
sent over here every day for the last week
to ask If we had heard when you were
coming home.'

VOL. II.  F

I told her she might expect us any night
replied her brother, ' so she is sure to be
prepared with all we shall want, and I knew
if I let her know the exact time, she would
confide it to all Bluemere. I want Phyllida
to have a day or two in which to become
acquainted with her new home, before she
is seized upon by all the cackling old
women of the village.'

You will have a very beautiful home, my
dear,' said Mrs Freshfield solemnly to
Phyllida, ' and I trust you will keep it so.
There is, to my mind, no more fitting occupation
for a young wife than the personal
superintendence of her servants' daily work.
The eye of a mistress is a better guide than
any amount of experience.'

'I don't agree with you there, mother,'
exclaimed Bernard, who was inducting himself
into his overcoat ; * and I beg you wont
upset all the ideas with which I have been
imbuing Phyllida for the last fortnight. The
fittest occupation for a young wife is making

love to her husband, and that Is all she is
going to do for the next ten years.'

At this Laura laughed merrily, and Mrs
Freshfield looked scandalised.

But, my dear Bernard, surely you would
not advise Phylllda to entirely neglect her
household avocations ? '

No, I don't advise, I order her to neglect
them. I am not ofolne to have her turned

o o

into a housekeeper or head cook. What
do I pay old Garnett fifty pounds a-year
for, if it Is not to take all such domestic
worries off my wife's hands ? '

But, my dear son, you must think of
others as well as yourselves. Your wife Is
placed In a very prominent position, and
will assuredly be looked up to as an example
by all the ladies In Bluemere.'

Oh dear, I hope not ! ' cried Phylllda.

But It is the case, my dear,' continued
Mrs Freshfield, ' and no wishes can alter It.
A clergyman's wife must live for the parish,
and not for herself. Every mother In Blue-mere

should be able to point to you when
she wishes to exemplify to her daughters,
what a virtuous and useful life culminates
in.'

Phyllida looked timid, and moved closer
to her husband. Bernard bit his lip, and
as soon as he saw his opportunity, rushed
in with his usual impetuosity.

Look here, mother dear ! I know you
mean it all for kindness, but please don't
let us have any more of that. It is true
that I have accepted the parish, worse
luck ; and am bound in many things  I
may say in most things  to sacrifice my
own natural inclinations in deference to my
position. But my wife has bound herself
only to me ; and, once for all, to prevent any
future misunderstandings on the subject,
I do not intend to let her have anything
to do with the parish or its affairs. I hate
and detest the model parson's wife who
considers it her duty to poke her nose into
every cottage door as if it belonged to herself,

and lay her commands upon its Inmates
as if they were under her rule. I
will not have Phyllida do it. I married
her for myself  to be the mistress of my
house and servants, and my daily, hourly
companion and friend, and I don't mean
to give her up to any one, not even for a
minute.'

'Well, Bernard, all I can say is, that I
think you are sadly mistaken on this as
on many other subjects,' remarked his
mother quietly. She never attempted to
argue with her son.

I am sorry we differ, mother, but friends
must agree to differ sometimes. Another
thing that Phyllida and I intend to dispense
with is the abomination of wedding
calls. Please let Bluemere know that there
will be no particular day on which they can
visit Briarwood, and find my wife dressed
in a prismatic silk, sitting up to be looked
at behind a silver basket piled with indigestible
cake. We shall always be pleased

to receive our friends, and when we are
at home they will be sure to find us either
in the garden, or the stables, or the kennels,
or the piggeries, or employed in some other
occupation equally congenial to our mutual
tastes. So, good-night, mother dear, and
good-night, Laura. Come over to dinner
with us tomorrow, and see how we look
sitting in state at our own table. Come,
love, it is time we were off.' And Bernard
handed his wife into the carriage,
and drove away with her. Mrs Freshfield
returned to the drawing-room, dismally
shaking her head.

Laura ! Laura ! I am afraid this is all
terribly irregular.'

Not the marriage, I hope, mamma ? '

My dear, you know what I mean. I
always considered your brother far too lax
with poor Alice. He allowed Miss Warren
to usurp all the parochial duties, and it
will be worse still with Phyllida. He will
ruin her with indulgence. To spend her

days in the iarden or the stables or the
kennel  you heard what he said  I ask
you candidly, is that the proper way fora
clergyman's wife to amuse herself ? '

I should think the proper thing for her
was to do exactly as her husband wishes.
I don't understand a grown woman being-ruined
by indulgence, mamma. Depend
on it, many more have been ruined by
repression. And I don't think Phyllida
could do parish work if she tried. She
doesn't look that sort of person, does
she ? '

No, not at all that sort of person 
anything, in fact, but that sort of person,'
reiterated Mrs Freshfield, with fearfully
mysterious meaning as she sighed profoundly.


Laura thought it best to change the subject.
As the carriage drove into the gates
of Briarwood, Bernard turned towards his
wife and took her in his arms.

We are nearly home,' he said. * May

it ever prove a true home to you, my own
dear love, a true refuge and haven from
every earthly 111 and annoyance. If / can
make it so, it shall.'

Phyllida buried her face in his.

Oh, Bernard ! you are too good and
trusting. Suppose  supposing, after all,
that I should prove a disappointment to
you ? '

I do not think that Is possible, but were
it so, the remembrance of the happiness
you have already given me would go far
to soften it. But do not fear that I expect
too much from you. We are neither of
us faultless, and as I hope you will exercise
forbearance towards me, so do I anticipate
sometimes having to call mine into
action for your sake. We shall have, like
all other mortals, to contend against many
disadvantages In one another. We may
not hold the same opinions ; we may not
like the same people ; occasionally our tempers
will clash and cause us some uneasiness.

But we love each other, and in all
the rest I shall leave you free  free to
exercise your own ideas and go your own
way  perfectly satisfied if from that way
you return to the shelter of my arms, and
find an answer for every vexatious question
of life in my never-failing love.'

This was the welcome she received to
Briarwood, and as the carriage stopped beneath
the portico, and Phyllida was handed
into the luxurious hall, and saw the servants
over whom she was thenceforth to
reign as mistress, she seemed to realise, for
the first time, what a stupendous change
had taken place for her, since but a few
weeks back she had been thrown on the
protection of ]airs Pinner. Yet she turned
from it all and threw herself into her husband's
arms, and assured him a thousand
times,  'It is yozi  you only that I
want.'

She would have resigned her new possessions,
in the first triumph of feeling them

to be hers, for a simple luxury that her
waiting - maids enjoyed with impunity and
thought nothing of  'a conscience free
from offence.'

The rector had not been within the walls
of Briarwood twelve hours before everyone
in Bluemere knew he had returned ; but
as no notification of the fact was made
public, they were obliged to control their
impatience to see the bride until she should
appear in church on Sunday. Only Mrs
Pinner was bold enough to invade the
sanctity of their home without an invitation,
and she had completely changed her
tactics In speaking of Phyllida, and laid
claim to double the amount of consideration
she received before, in right of her
cousinship to the parson's wife.

Knowing that Phyllida's ideas of religion,
if honest, were rather peculiar, Bernard had
purposely abstained from expressing the
least wish that she should accompany him
to. church on Sunday, as It was his firm

intention, unless he could bias her mind, to
leave her actions free.

When he came down on that day, however,
preparatory to starting for the morning
service, he found her ready dressed
and waiting for him in the portico.

Are you coming with me, my darling ? '
he said, with pleased surprise.

Of course I am,' she answered. ' Did
you think I should remain at home ? '

I thought very little about It, love, excepting
that I wish you to do exactly as
you like ; and you have told me you do
not like going to church.'

No more I used to no more I do now,
in fact  only I want to go with you.'

And I am only too delighted to have
you, my Phyllida. The church would look
very empty to me without your dear face ;
but I want you to feel quite, quite free in
this matter as in all others.'

No ; don't say that,' she whispered,
gazing up Into his face with sweet, troubled

eyes   ' don't let me feel free, Bernard,
now that I belong to you. Make me good,
whether I want it or not. You promised
you would, and I will try  indeed, I will
if you will only order me to do everything
that you think is best for me.'

You dear child,' replied her husband,
if we all regarded the Almighty with
the same feelings with which you regard
me, the evangelical Christians might shut
up their hell at once.'

Are you an evangelical Christian, Bernard
? ' demanded Phyllida.

No, Phyllida.'

Do you call yourself High Church,
then ? '

I don't call myself anything.'

But what are you ? '

Your husband, darling ; that is quite
enough for you ; and now if you are
coming to church with me we must have
the carriage.'

I can walk, Bernard.'

I don't wish you to walk. I know
many people think it very wicked to use
their horses on Sunday, who think nothing
of the wickedness of using their servants ;
but my notions on such subjects are peculiar.
And one is that it will do our
horses less harm to trot for a couple
of miles than it will do my wife. So,
go and sit down again until the carriage
comes round.'

It would have indeed been a terrible disappointment
to Bluemere if Mrs Bernard
Freshfield had not appeared in church
that morning, although her defalcation
would have afforded them just cause fora
little extra malice over their teacups.
Every pew was crowded with eagerly
expectant faces as Bernard led his young
wife up the aisle and placed her in her
seat, and the whispered comments that
followed her appearance ran through the
congregation like the buzzing of bees.
Every woman's bonnet was thrust into

the bonnet of her next neighbour, and
they would have been struck dumb by
the apparition in the parson's pew, except
for the pleasure of saying that they were
so. Those who had been so unlucky
as to only catch sight of her back, asked
each other in awestruck tones if it could
possibly be Mrs Bernard Freshfield ; but
when, on changing her position, Phyllida
let the whole church have a view of her
profile, there could be no longer any doubt
on the subject. But what had come to
her ? What wonderful transformation was
this from the somewhat reserved young
lady in a black merino dress, who had
excited their comments as Mrs Pinner's
cousin ? As the service commenced and
Phyllida stood up with the rest, the responses
went entirely out of their heads.
They had expected naturally to see her
bloom forth in wedding garments ; but
the dress she wore : the golden brown
velvet costume, with point lace ruffles at

her throat and wrists and a couple of
yellow roses nestling under her chin, and
a broad-brimmed hat of some white, furry
material that enraged her sunny hair
like a snow-drift  it was the amazement
of this style, unknown in Bluemere, that
caused so much irreverence that mornings.
Where had she learned to dress in such
a manner ? From whom had she acquired
the taste ? Who had taught Phyllida Moss
to carry her head like a princess, and
wear her fashionable garments as though
she had never been used to any other ?

They had expected to see her come
back blushing, confused and ready to sink
under the unexpected honour conferred upon
her, and here she was, receiving the silent
homage of their curiosity, as if she had
been some earl's daughter who had condescended
to marry Mr Freshest ! It was
incredible. Poor Mrs Pinner was assailed
from so many quarters at once upon this
point, and spoke so much louder than she

intended to do In answering her assailants,
that Mr Robinson had to cough her down
in the middle of the service. But as soon
as It was over she had her revenge.

Where did she learn to dress so ? Really,
Mrs Norman, one might think my cousin
had never been In any society to hear you
ask such a question ! Haven't I told sou
that her parents lived In St Domingo, and
mixed in the highest circles there, which
are chiefly composed of French people,
Phyllida tells me, and are of course up to
all the French fashions.'

But she has such a peculiar dress on ?
Do you think it pretty ? ' demanded Miss
Lacy. ' My mamma thinks a light-coloured
silk would be so much more appropriate
for a bride.'

Ah, your good mamma has lived In the
country all her life, my dear, and cannot
be expected to know the fashions. My
cousin has come straight from London, remember,
so she can hardly be mistaken.' :

Whether it Is the fashion or not, it is
a very extraordinary dress for a minister's
wife to appear at church in,' remarked
another young lady spitefully. ' I am sure
Mr Freshfield must have been hurt by the
evident surprise It occasioned. And his dear
mamma too and Miss. Laura, I didn't envy
them having to sit in the same pew with
her!'

You had better not talk at random, Miss
Masters ! I have seen my cousin naturally
(although it was Mr Freshfield's wish that
no one in the village but myself and his
own relations should intrude at Briarwood
until his wife had appeared In church),
and Phyllida told me only yesterday that
her husband admired that dress so much
that he had ordered one exactly similar
to be made for his sister Laura. But
perhaps you will not believe that I am
better informed than yourself, and perhaps
my being cousin to Mrs Bernard
Freshfield, and cousin-inlaw to the rector,
VOL. 11. G

does not warrant my knowledge of their
private affairs,' concluded Mrs Pinner
grandly.

Miss Masters tossed her head.

I am sure I meant nothing of the sort.
If Mr Freshfield likes his wife to attend
church in a scarlet gown, or no gown at
all, it is all the same to me. I only expressed
the general opinion in saying her
costume was peculiar. And as for her hat,
I never saw such a thing in my life. Did
you, Miss Warren ? '

Miss Annie Warren, just issuing from
the church door, was not in the most
amiable temper. It had been a weekly
custom of hers during the lifetime of the
late Mrs Freshfield to drive home in the
rector's carriage after the morning service,
and spend the rest of the day at Briar-wood.


Alice had liked her society, and Bernard's
affection for his wife had been of too milk-and-water
a description to resent the presence

of a third party. But he had no
intention of allowing his tctes-d-tctc with
Phyllida to be intruded upon more than
was absolutely necessary. So that though
Miss Warren waited outside the vestry
door in the old fashion, and would have
gladly renewed her former footing at the
rectory, all she had received from the nev/ly-
married couple was a shake of the hand,
and Bernard had driven off, looking the
picture of happiness, leaving her, with a
very empty feeling at her heart, to find her
way back to her friends as best she could.
But Annie Warren was made of different
material from Miss Lacy or Miss Masters,
or any of the other misses who populated
Bluemere. Her disappointment at the rector's
marriage had been bitter and severe ;
her hatred of the rector's new wife was
bitterer and severer still. Her's was nota
nature to forget or forgive easily, and
there was a trace of Indian blood in her
veins that imbued it with a still more vindictive

Instinct ; she could avait for her
revenge. But it was not part of her plan
to quarrel with Mrs Pinner, or indeed with
any one ; and it would have been the
height of Impolicy In her to do anything
to widen the breach which was already
yawning between the Freshfields and herself.
So she reproved Miss Masters' unkind
speech In a thoroughly Christian-like
and womanly ways

I am surprised,' she said, ' to find that
the admirable lessons we have just heard,
and the prayers In which we have joined,
have had no better effect than to make
you discuss hats and dresses, Miss Masters.
What can It signify what people wear ?
What they do is of the only real consequence,
and we may be quite sure that
Mrs Bernard Freshfield's conduct will have
the approbation of our dear minister In
all things ; may we not, Mrs Pinner ? '
she added, with a honied smile.

Indeed we may, my dear,' replied Mrs

Pinner, delighted to find so staunch anally
where she least expected it ; ' such a
couple you never saw, they are perfectly
devoted to each other, and Mr Freshfield
seems as if he couldn't do too much for
his wife. Have you been to Briarwood
yet?'

No ; I did not like to disturb them so
soon after their return, though I ann such
an old friend,' rejoined Miss Annie, who
had the greatest difficulty to prevent her
eyes flashing the lightning with which they
were laden.

Come up with me this evening, will
you ? I am sure they will be delighted
to see you, and as for myself, of course, I
am always welcome in my own cousin's
house. It will be a nice walk for us,
and if you will take a cup of tea with me
first I shall be very pleased.'

Thank you, dear INIrs Pinner. I will
be with you about six o'clock,' replied
Miss Warren, who wanted to find out a

great deal more about the bride's antecedents
than she at present knew.

Meanwhile Bernard and Phyllida, unconscious
of the treat in store for them,
having taken their luncheon, sat together
on the lawn under the chestnut trees.
There were only two services on Sunday in
Bluemere, and the curate, Mr Robinson,
conducted the afternoon one, therefore,
when his morning duties were over, Bernard
had the rest of the day to himself.
Phyllida was lying back in a low chair
with her eyes fixed upon the sky ; and
her husband had been watching her, and
thinking how beautiful she was for the last
ten minutes.

Phyllida,' he said suddenly, ' I shall have
to give you a pew at the back of the
pulpit ! '

Why, Bernard ? '

Because you are too fascinating for a
parson's wife, and I keep looking at you
instead of my book, and I know I shouldn't.

I must try and forget you, my darling,
at all events whilst I am reading prayers ;
and the only way to do that Is to put you
out of slept.'

I would rather not see you either, Bernard.
It made me miserable to see you
dressed up In that night-gown thing this
morning. I wish you could read the
prayers in a pretty tweed coat  like the
grey one you used to wear at Lynton 
with a rose in your buttonhole.'

Bernard laughed.

I wish I could, too, Phyllida, for I can
assure }'ou I dislike the " night-gown '' quite
as much as you do ! But though I believe
my views are as broad as those of most
men, I have not yet reached the pitch of
appearing in the pulpit In a tweed suit.
But how could my surplice affect you to
the extent of maklncr you miserable ? '

Oh, it seemed to raise you so high
above me. I looked up at your grave face,
and I thought, " What can I have in common

with a minister of religion ? " It made me
feel I can never be good enough for you.
Berne, I Hke you so much better in a
shooting-coat  you don't know ! I guess
you are nearer to me that way.'

I guess I can't be nearer to you than I
am, you Hide Yankee ! '

PhylHda turned sharply.

Why do you call me a Yankee ? *

Why, aren't you always telling me that
you 'guess'' this and you 'guess'' that ? '

My father had been to America  I suppose
that is the reason,' she said nervously.

I daresay it is, for you have several other
Americanisms which you must have picked
up from some one with whom you have been
familiar. But you are charming, notwithstanding,
Mrs Freshfield.'

She smiled at him, but still she sighed,
and lay quiet for a few minutes more, gazing
up into the sky.

Bernard, why is it necessary for everybody
to think the same . '

What do you mean, Phyllida ? '

Why may not everybody try to get to
heaven in his own way ? Why must there
be different religions and churches, and why
must everybody who belongs to the same
religion hold just the same opinions, and
repeat the same prayers, and" go to church
at the same time ? Why must it all be so
formal and prim, and every man think
just the same as every other man ? Do
you understand me ? Why mayn't we do
as wee like, so long as we do what seems tous
the very best ? '

Bernard rose from his seat by her side,
and began to pace hurriedly up and down
the shaven turf.

Have I said anything wrong ? Are you
angry?' demanded Phyllida timidly.

'Angry! Xo ! How should I be, and
with you ' But your words have touched
a tender chord in my breast, Phyllida,
and renewed a question that is ever tormenting
me. I have never dared to say

as much to any other mortal, but I would
have my wife familiar with every phase of
my character.

Why may not man, in the matter which
so nearly concerns his future, think for himself,
instead of being compelled, on pain of
eternal damnation, to adopt the opinions of
those set over him, whether his Intellect can
approve them or not ?

Why, Indeed ! This is the question that
has haunted me ever since I became old
enough to think for myself, and has Infused a
doubt in my mind that poisons a profession I
miofht otherwise love to hold. I know what
I believe myself I have thought it out and
argued it out, and proved it by testimony,
which to my mind Is incontrovertible  therefore
I am happy and contented In my faith,
and desire no other. But why, because /
believe such and such things must my
neighbour necessarily believe them also ?
What my Intellect approves with ease, his
may utterly refuse to embrace ; whereas

another dogma, which I cannot grasp, may
commend itself highly to his senses. This,
then, is my difficulty  not what to believe
myself, but what to teach others to believe.
To attempt to cram a faith down a man's
throat whether he will or not, is tantamount
to forcing unpalatable food into his mouth.
What good will it do him when swallowed ?
I have sat for hours, thinking it my duty
trying with all my might to make some old
sinner believe the same truths as I do, and
the result has generally been that I have
left him more obstinately determined to go
his own way than before. And how can
we tell  this is the est of the whole
matter  whether that way, however wrong
it may appear in our eyes, may not bethe
very means by which the man is fore-destined
to be eventually saved. For mark
}'0u, Phyllida, sin is as absolutely a necessary'
component of the world's economy as
virtue. If there were no sin, there could
be no virtue. Who could exercise forgiveness

without offence  generosity without
debt  charity without malice  courage
without temptation ? To call forth the corresponding
grace there must be evil ; and
surely, so long as we individually exercise
the virtues within our power, we may safely
leave the evil with Him who created it.
You asked me this morning if I were an
evangelical or a High Church Christian,
and I answered you neither. For I don't
want to belong to any sect at all, and my
error has been to belong to any Church.
If I could give up my profession tomorrow
I would. My mother is the only person
who keeps me in it. It would make her
so unhappy if she thought I even contemplated
such a step, and I owe my mother-much,
dear Phyllida. She has been a good
mother to me.'

And you cannot love her too much in
return,' cried the girl warmly. ' Oh, my
own dear, dear mother ! What would I not
sive to see hej once again.'

Bernard came up close to his wife, and
gazed into her tearful eyes.

I suppose,' he said lovingly, * the dear,
good, charitable, Christian world, who take
a delight in condemning every one to hellfire
who differs from themselves, would call
you a very godless sort of little heathen ; but
I hold one such speech from your lips as
worth all their whining, canting platitudes
about their duty or their religion. M\
mother has not been even* cordial in her
welcome of you, mv darling  I have seen
that, and so have } ou  but those sweet, unselfish
words came straight from your noble
heart and have gone up like incense before
the Throne. There was more true Christian
feeling in that one sentence than in
half the sermons in the world I '

No, no,' cried Phyllida, visibly distressed.
* Don't say that  don't think it,
Bernard. I know what my own heart is.
The worst you can think of me is better
than I am.'

I will not speak of It If you desire me
not, my darling, but you must leave me to
think of you as I choose. But I have
told you now the difficulties of my position,
Phyllida. As a layman I should be the
happiest fellow In creation, but the duties
that have been thrust upon me are burdensome.
I am bound to preach much that
I cannot accept, and I dare not honestly
proclaim what I believe myself, so my conscience
Is constantly warring with my sense
of obligation. My friend Anderson has
tried very hard to convert me to his own
opinions ; but to leave the church I am in
for another would not better my position.
I search each one In turn, and I find the
same fetters everywhere. The priesthood
I use the term advisedly, and Intend it
to embrace every description of minister 
preach the faith in which they have been
ordained, and will have it that man can
be saved in no other. This Is what grates
against my common sense and my knowledge

of the Almighty', and I want to preach
that man can not be saved by inlaid
down plan, but only by God, and in God's
own way, and that to further such an end
God requires no church, nor prayers, nor
opinions, nor ceremonies. He wants only
our love.'

And as Bernard spoke thus, he too lifted
his eyes to heaven in a silent prayer.

You see the reason now, my darling
wife,' he continued, ' why I will not lay the
slightest restriction on you with regard to
religious duties. I will have you do exactly
as you feel inclined. The means which
suit me may harden you ; the set prayers
that help another soul to heaven may drive
you from it. Be free then, my sweetheart,
and be happy and true, and when I love
you most, think that it is but a spark, a
flicker, an imperfect reflection of the flame
of love which emanates from your Heavenly
Father to yourself, and has done from the
beginning of the world.'

Bernard had found out by this time that
PhylHda's nature was variable and easily
excited, but he was hardly prepared for
the passionate burst of weeping with which
she received his last words. She cried so
violently and unrestrainedly that he was
afraid the attention of the household would
be directed to it, and it was with some difficulty
that he soothed her emotion and
restored her to her usual calmness before
their unwelcome visitors, Mrs Pinner and
Miss Warren, were announced.

Once more settled at Briarwood,
with Phyllida for his daily companion,
and surrounded by his
home interests, Bernard Freshfield's private
life left him nothing to desire, and his wife
experienced (what few women do) the privilege
of being a good and clever man's friend,
without being compelled to be his echo. He
left her absolutely free, body and soul, and
no prisoner set at large ever valued his
liberty more. The season, though far advanced
in September, was still mild enough
for out-door enjoyment, and to ramble
the plantations, followed by the

VOL. II. H

through

dogs ; or to take the lessons on horseback
which her husband had commenced
to give her ; or to sit under the trees
for a whole forenoon, happy and lazy,
without being questioned as to the propriety
of her actions, was perfect bliss to
Phyllida. What thoughts passed through
her yet girlish brain as she sat, silent
and impassive, beneath the chestnut trees,
Bernard never asked and never wished
to know. He considered the soul of a
woman to be as much her own property
as the soul of a man, and that no one had
a right to peer into its secrets except Him
from whom it is impossible to hide them.

Yet he studied his young wife's character
anxiously, if not officiously." Even during
the short time they had been married, he
had been obliged to confess to himself
that she was a puzzle to him  for her
nature seemed made up of two parts, and
they were utterly opposed to one another.
In company she was always somewhat

reserved and silent. Mrs Freshfield
thought she was stupid and unused to
society, and Laura trusted she was not
of a cold or uncongenial disposition. Mrs
Freshfield's disappointment at her son's
marriage to a girl of whom, as she said,
No one knew anything was too recent
to admit of her showing more than politeness
to the mistress of Briarwood ;
but Laura was nervously anxious, both
for her brother's sake and her own, to
make friends with her new sister. But
the result was certainly unsatisfactory. The
more the warm-hearted Laura poured her
confidences into Phyllida's ear, and pressed
for hers in return, the more did Bernard's
wife seem to shrink within herself and
become silent and abstracted. Her husband
would have been as unhappy at this
state of things as his sister, had he not
known how differently Phyllida behaved
when alone with him, and attributed it
entirely to her shyness with strangers.

Wait,' he used to say to Laura, ' till
Phyllida has become as familiar with you
as she is with me, and you will find that
she is a perfect child in all her ways and
manners.'

And he had reason to say so, for when
they were alone together no gay unthinking
child could pass more rapidly from one
phase of feeling to another. Sometimes
she would be hilariously gay, and chatter
and laugh by the hour. The wildest, most
enchanting creature that ever held fast
the senses of man !

When she was in this mood (which
occurred by far the seldom of the two)
Phyllida would sing snatches of sportive
little songs, with an archness and abandon
that held her husband breathless
with surprise and pleasure ; or she would
dance before him as naturally as a child
dances to its mother on the nursery floor ;
or she would seize the nearest thing at hand,
a shawl, a table napkin, a coloured scarf,

and twist it about her head and shoulders,
and transform herself to some one else,
and under that guise act a dual part,
keeping up an imaginary conversation,
which evolved such sparkles of wit that
Bernard, remembering her usual quiet
demeanour, would be fairly startled, and
wish that all Bluemere could come and
admire her versatility as much as he
did. At such times she appeared a perfect
woman of the world, a little hard
perhaps, but with the most consummate
ease, and a thorough knowledge that she
was charming. But her general demeanour
(and it was always strikingly so after one
of these outbursts) was so subdued as
to be almost melancholy. Bernard would
detect her in the act of heaving a sigh
sometimes that seemed to come from the
very depths of her heart ; and she would
start and blush when accused of it, and
turn it off with a merry declaration that
it was all indigestion, and that if she continued

to eat so much and do so little,
she would soon be qualified to go round
the country in a caravan as the ' Fat Lady
And then she would jump up, declaring
that in that case she must have some
dancing dogs to accompany her, and let
all the dogs loose, and make them dance
with her upon the lawn and chase her
through the shrubberies, whilst her husband
watched her gambols with the purest
pleasure. Only sometimes (much as he
admired the languid far-away look in her
lovely eyes) he wished that the dogs and
flowers, and all the other innocent joys in
which she revelled, had the power to
chase it away, and leave her free to delight
in them alone.

When, after the lapse of a few weeks, it
became patent to Bluemere that Mrs Bernard
Freshfield had no intention of taking
any part in the parochial work, the
whole community felt aggrieved, and her
mother-in-law made it the fruitful theme

of many a discussion with her daughter
Laura.

If Bernard does not wish it, mamma,'
Laura would say, ' I cannot see how Phyl-
ida can possibly undertake it. Surely her
duty to her husband Is her first duty ; and
you know he always said he would not
have his wife pottering about the labourers*
cottages with a basket full of flannel and
tracts. The parishioners of Bluemere have
no cause to complain ; they can have all
their wants supplied and their troubles inquired
into at Briarwood, and I believe
they much prefer going up to Mrs Garnett
to having ladles visit them.'

Laura, it Is useless of you to try and
defend your sister-in-law's conduct. You
speak as if she were a perfect child instead
of a woman ! Do you mean to tell
me that she married my son without the
slightest thought of the responsibilities of
the position she undertook ? A clergyman's
wife to do nothing but ride on horseback,

and drive about the country on the box-seat
of her husband's curricle, and pay calls
and receive them  why, it is perfectly
iniquitous ! And she dresses in a manner
to which, I am sure, she must have been
quite unaccustomed. Every one at Sir George
Winter's the other night was staring at
her white inoird and the costly lace with
which it was trimmed  pearls round her
throat, too ! That foolish boy is spending
all his substance on her, and for a person
of whom one \r\o\N?> absolutely nothing I It
is no wonder people stare at the exhibition
of so much folly.'

Say rather, mamma, they stare at so
much beauty ! Phyllida is the prettiest
woman that has been seen in this part of
the country in my remembrance, and I don't
wonder poor Berne is half off his head
about her. I heard people saying at Sir
George Winter's that she was a perfect
picture ; and I think, mamma, that you ought
to be very proud of your daughter-in-law.'

Well, well,' replied ]airs Freshfield, but
half-mollified, ' her beaut' should not prevent
her doing her duty, and I think Bernard
is much to blame not to insist upon
it. He lays everything on ?IIss Warren's
shoulders In a manner that few young ladles
would bear so quietly. That poor girl
positively attends to everything, from the
Dorcas society and the mothers' meetings
to the school prizes and the harvest festival.
It Is most unfair that Bernard's wife
should not share her labours, and I think
she would be quite justified In resigning
her post'

Oh come, mamma,' cried Laura, laughing,
' don't make a grievance out of that, for
you know that Annie Warren undertook the
parish work entirely of her own accord, and
Bernle would like nothing better than to
see his way to relieve her of it. He says
she Is the greatest plague he has, and makes
more mischief in the village than he has time
to undo. jNIIss Warren would probably consider

herself very much injured if Phyllida
were to enter one of the cottages without
her leave.'

But in this surmise Laura Freshfield
happened to be mistaken. Strange to say,
Miss Warren was as anxious now that
Phyllida should share the burden of her
parochial work, as she had been before to
prevent her doing so. Her hopes of becoming
the mistress of Briarwood being
unmistakably blighted, she did not see the
advantage of toiling for the remainder of
her life in the service of the parson. And
it maddened her as she went her daily
rounds with a heavy basket on her arm,
and a thousand annoyances to beset her
way, to think of the girl she had so looked
down upon as Mrs Pinners cousin taking
her ease at Briarwood, clad in the costly
robes her husband purchased for her, or visiting
the best houses in the county, and being
declared the belle wherever she appeared.
So she was very much bent on letting

Bernard know, in a perfectly amicable
manner, that if his wife did not intend to
take her share of the parochial duties, he
must find some one that would. Consequently,
as he sat at breakfast one morning
with Phyllida in a cashmere and satin quilted
dressing-gown in a chair very near his own,.
Miss Warren, with the inevitable basket on
one arm and a large roll of brown paper
under the other, walked into the room unceremoniously
and opened fire with an exclamation
of surprise.

At breakfast, at half-past ten in the
morning ! What a shocking waste of time !
Wliy, I hardly thought I should find you at
home, Mr Freshfield ! Isn't this the day
that was fixed for distributing the garden
seeds to the men at Brick Common ? '

I believe it is,' replied Bernard, crossing
his legs and unfolding a newspaper.
Robinson has gone over there, I suppose ?
I told him to see to it for me.'

Dear me ! I made sure you would distribute

the seeds yourself. The cottagers
will be very much disappointed, and I don't
think Mr Robinson knows anything about
the matter.'

He must find out, then,' said Freshfield
curtly ; and then wishing to make amends,
hie addressed his wife, ' Phyllida, are you not
going to ask Miss Warren to take a cup
of coffee ? '

Phyllida blushed, and moved towards the
tea equipage.

I beg your pardon, Miss Warren. Which
<lo you prefer, tea or coffee ? '

Thank you, I will take coffee,' replied
the unwelcome visitor, depositing her load
on the floor, and drawing a chair to the
table, ' I have been so busy all the morning,
I have hardly had time to think of breakfast.
My work would never be done if
I lay in bed after six o'clock. No one
knows the cares of a parish, except those
who undertake them, and I really have
more on my hands than I can well accomplish.

It will be impossible to go on in
this way much longer without help.'

Let me know what part of it you consider
too onerous, and I will relieve you
of it at once, Miss Warren,' exclaimed Bernard.
' I have the names of half-a-dozen
ladies on my list who have asked me to
give them some work to do in Bluemere,
and are only waiting to pick up the crumbs
your busy hands let fall'

But this was not what Miss Warren was
striving for. She wanted to see Phyllida
(who, she believed, would hate such work)
forced or shamed into doings it.

Naturally, Mr Freshfield, all who call
themselves Christians, or wish the world ta
think them so, must desire to labour in
the vineyard. It should be a privilege.,
and with right-minded persons it is so.
And therefore I have been waiting to-learn
what share of the duty your wife
intends to take upon herself, before we
discuss the propriety of letting others usurp-her

right of choice. Of course Mrs Bernard
doe's intend to become a visitor amongst her
husband's people. It would be a noticeable
fact if she did not,' concluded Miss Annie,
with a hard stare at Phyllida, who began
stammering,  

I will  will  do anything that Bernard
wishes me to do  but  but  '

Btitl said Freshfield, wheeling round his
chair, so as to face Miss Warren, ' I do
not wish my wife to meddle in the parish
affairs at all ; more, I do not intend that
she shall do so. She has not been used to
such work, and she doesn't like it, and I have
plenty of assistance without hers. If the
ladies of Bluemere find it irksome, Robinson
will take it off their hands, and if it becomes
too much for him I will get a second
curate. So you see. Miss Warren, I have
provided against all contingencies, and intend
Mrs Freshfield to stick to her own
business, which is to look after me.'

Oh, of course if that is your decision.

Mr Freshfield, there Is no more to be said
on the subject,' replied Miss Warren tartly.
It is very unusual, and it will excite some
discussion, but I daresay Mrs Bernard will
not mind that. But a rector's wife is a
very noticeable person, and the parish expect
more of her perhaps than of others.
This morning, for example, I quite thought
I should secure ]airs Bernard's co-operation
in covering the school books. I have the
paper with me, you see, and was on my
way to the schoolroom, when I looked inhere.
Indeed, I half promised the teachers
that your wife would inspect the premises
to-day, and know they will be prepared to
see her. It seems so strange that she
should have returned home nearly a month,
and not even been over the school-rooms
or alms-houses yet'

Well, she Is not going over them, certainly
not as a duty, neither can she cover
old school-books, Miss Warren. Indeed,
she is bound not to leave home this morning,

as we expect the Ashleighs to lunch.
If, when PhylHda is better acquainted with
Bluemere and its people, she likes to visit
their cottages from a feeling of friendliness
I shall be the last person to wish to deprive
my parishioners of what is such a
pleasure to myself ; but it is no duty of
hers to do so, and I will not have her
think it.'

Well, I suppose I had better ask Miss
Masters or Mrs Wedgwood to help me,'
replied Miss Warren, with an air of martyrdom
; * for no one could be expected tO'
put fresh covers on three hundred books ina
morning with one pair of hands.'

Please leave them altogether said Bernard,
* and I will see they are covered without
laying myself under an obligation to
anyone.'

*0h dear, no, Mr Freshfield ! What I
undertake I will do, even if I die under it.
No one shall ever have it in their power to
say that / shirked any part of the duty that

falls to my share as a labourer in the Lord's
vineyard

Bernard was afraid he might be tempted
to say something rude, and thought it best
to change the conversation.

Give me another cup of tea, darling,'
he said, addressing his wife ; and then, just
as she was handing it to him, he added, ' I
have had such a nice letter this morning 
I must read it to you by-and-by  from a
very old friend of mine, now in America
Nelson Cole ! '

Something must have startled Phyllida at
that moment, or the evil eye of Annie
Warren was fixed upon her, and made her
hand unsteady ; for down went the cup and
saucer with a crash, deluging the tablecloth
with hot tea, and when Bernard looked
up at the unexpected clatter, he was horrified
to see that his wife had sunk back in
the nearest chair, and was staring at him
with wide-open, frightened eyes. He sprang
to her side in alarm.

VOL. II. I

Phyllida, Phyllida, my darling ! What
is the matter ? She Is ill  she is fainting !
Please open the window, Miss Warren, and
give me a glass of water from the sideboard.
Thank you. She will be better
now. What can have been the cause of
this sudden attack ? '

I don't think Mrs Bernard is ill remarked
Miss Warren, with quiet malice.
I was watching her face all the time, and
I imagine it was something soil said that
upset her nerves.'

Phyllida turned her head and looked at
the speaker. Their eyes 'met, and from
that moment the two women knew that
they were enemies.

It is untrue,' she answered slowly, but
her voice faltered as she spoke. ' I am ill
faint. I don't know what is the matter
with me, but it is nothing that you said,
Bernard.'

I don't see how it could be,' he remarked
ingenuously. ' I was only speaking

of my friend's letter. Miss Warren's visions
of parish work are much more Hkely to
have upset you, PhylHcla.'

In which case, perhaps, I had better
take my leave ? ' said Miss Warren, ' though
I can scarcely accept the blame you would
like to impute to me, Mr Freshfield. Your
wife's constitution must indeed be delicate
if she cannot even bear the mention of her
duty. Our dear lost Alice, frail as she was,
had a soul which could at all times take an
interest in the wants of others. Dear saint !
Were she but on earth, she would be the
first to lighten me of my heavy burthen.
But those days are over. Shall I send
Mrs Garnett in to attend to Mrs Bernard
? '

No, thank you, Miss Warren. I can do
all that she requires for her. Good morning.
If Phyllida is quite recovered I shall
ride over to Brick Common this afternoon,
and hear what the men have to say about
their plots of ground.'

As soon as they found themselves alone,
Bernard poured out his whole wealth of
tenderness upon his wife, and implored her
to confide to him the cause of her sudden
fright or illness. But the girl was resolute
in evading his questions. It was the
weather  the change of season  she was
over tired  she had not slept well the night
before  It was everything or nothing. It
was anything, in fact, but the effect of
what she had heard or seen.

And I am so sorry I interrupted you,'
continued Phyllida in a low voice that still
trembled, ' because you were going to tell
me something about  about  a friend of
yours  In  In  America, and I Avant to
hear all  all  you can tell me of him,
Bernard,' she said, with white lips.

I will read you his letter, my darling,
or you shall read it for yourself  if you
would like it better. He is a dear old
fellow, but rather a rough diamond, not a
lady's man by any manner of means ; but

we have always been the best of friends
and companions, notwithstanding the difference
in our ages ; for I suppose Cole must
be fifty by this time. He was very kind tome
when I was a youngster, and though
he has been in the United States for the
last five years, we keep up a steady correspondence,
though not a very constant one.
And he writes so kindly, too. I believe
he really cares for me.'

Phyllida came and seated herself on her
husband's lap, and clasped her trembling
arms round his neck.

And is this friend of yours  this Mr
Cole,' she asked, 'going to live all his life
in Chicago ? '

'In Chicago, dearest ! What pat that
in your head .? ' said Bernard, with a look
of surprise.

Didn't you say he was out there ? '

No ; I don't think I mentioned any
place in particular, but he has been in
Chicago several times, notwithstanding. He

has been employed on the railway there.
He is a civil engineer. You will laugh
when you read his letter, Phyllida. He
'' chaffs " me so for saying I shall never
marry again. But that was six months
ago, you know, before I met you, my darling
! What will he say when he hears
my resolution is broken } I shall never
hear the last of it.'

Don't tell him, Bernard. It can be of
no consequence to him, and I should not
like to be laughed at, if I were you.'

Oh, I don't mind his fun, it is all good-natured.
And I could not' keep such an
important piece of news from old Cole.
How do you suppose I could write a letter
without mentioning you, when I think of
nothing else 1 '

You will be telling him the colour of
my hair and eyes, and all that nonsense,'
said Phyllida wistfully, * so that he may
know exactly what I am like.'

I might try, darling, but I should never

succeed. How do you suppose I could
put such a dainty little witch on paper ?
The best part of you is what can never be
described. But I shall certainly make an
attempt to let my old friend know what a
pretty young woman Mrs Bernard Fresh-field
is.'

Perhaps  said his wife slowly, and as
if she spoke with a great effort  ' perhaps
Mr Cole will be coming to England soon,
and able to judge for himself

No ; he wont, you conceited girl 
worse luck. I wish he were ; but he says
there is no chance of his return. The
fact is, his services are too valuable, and
they wont let him leave the States. I
expect he will remain there now for the
rest of his days.*

Phyllida heaved a sigh  was it of relief?
and rose demurely from her seat.

I will go upstairs now,' she said, ' and
keep quiet until the Ashleighs come,' and her
husband saw no more of her that morning.

Her spirits appeared so depressed, however,
after this conversation, and experienced
so Httle relief from the bursts of gaiety in
which she had hitherto indulged, that Bernard
became quite anxious on her account,
and beoan to have all sorts of fanciful ideas
on the subject of the change. At one time
he declared Bluemere could not agree with
her. At another that she had not sufficient
excitement, or that she had too much
fatigue and the entertaining of company at
Briarwood exhausted her strength, until
every old woman in the parish was laughing
at the parson's ' fads ' about his pretty
wife. Phyllida herself was the last person
to encourage his alarm. She smiled serenely
whenever it became patent to her, and tried
hard to force a hilarity she did not feel in
order to allay it, but her efforts were too
obvious to have the desired effect, and
Bernard watched her every look and movement
with the greatest concern. At last
her mood changed, apparently as unreasonably

as it had arisen, but whether causeless
or not, sunshine burst forth again at Briar-wood,
and seemed destined to illuminate it
for ever more. It was as if some heavy
oppression had suddenly been lifted off
Phyllida's mind, or some dark cloud cleared
from her brain ; and she commenced to
dance along the path of life like a child
that had but just wakened to the reality
and joy of existence.

Bernard could not account for the happy
change, but he kept the day as a red letter
one in the calendar of his memory. It was
on an afternoon in October, one of those
days we sometimes get at the close of the
year, that are more precious than any in
summer, when the whole land is made
glorious by a sun whose rays enliven without
scorching us, and the rich autumn foliage
beautifies the country with one mass of
colour. Bernard had some important parish
work to look after, and Phyllida had set
forth alone in her little pony chaise, which

she had learnt to manage admirably, to pay
a call upon the Ashlelghs. She had become
a favourite with most of the families
round about Bluemere, and especially with
the one in question. Captain Ashleigh, who
was an old naval officer, could never sufficiently
praise the beauty and amiability
of the rector's wife, and Mrs Ashleigh
thought her one of the sweetest girls of her
acquaintance. So that Bernard was glad
she should go and spend the morning with
them, hoping their society might have the
effect of raising her spirits. His own business
kept him from home till late in the
afternoon, and as he walked up the drive,
on his return to Briarwood, he saw Phyllis
waiting in the porch to receive him.
But could this be the pale, listless girl
he had parted from in the morning ?
Bernard looked at her in astonishment.
Her cheeks were like a damask rose ;
smiles dimpled on her face and shone out
from her eyes.; her little feet danced with

impatience whilst she waited his approach.
Her husband quickened his steps in glad
surprise.

Why, my darling, what is this?" he exclaimed.
' Who has been working miracles
in my absence ? Have you met an old
friend or made a new one ? Or is Captain
Ashleigh a necromancer, and has he been
giving you a dose of the elixir of life ? '

Yes, yes, Berne,' she cried, laughing,
and clapping her hands, * that is it. I found
an old bottle amongst the captain's dusty
books, and drank its contents before I knew
what it was. And you see what it bias
done for me. I am quite well again now,
and mean to live for ever.'

Seriously, I hardly know you,' said
Bernard, as he came up to her ; * my darling,
you look lovelier than ever. I am so glad
you enjoy riding and driving, and that it
agrees with you. You are not the same
girl I put into the pony chaise this morning.'

No, dearest, I am not the same girl,'

she exclaimed, as she pressed against her
husband's side and clunof to him. ' I feel
as if all the world was changed for me,
and I should never feel unhappy or depressed
again. Oh, how wicked I have
been to give way to such feelings, and
when I had you  you, for all my own ! '

It was illness, my Phyllida, that made
you so melancholy. How could you help
it ? ' said Bernard tenderly ; ' but I cannot
tell you how thankful I am for your recovery.
What did the Ashleighs say, love ?
Did they not remark upon these sparkling
eyes and glowing cheeks and 'happy smiles '. '

Bernard, dear, I never saw them. They
had gone out for the day to Westertown.'

Never saw them, child ! What have
you been doing, then, all this time ? '

Not much, I think ; resting myself, and
dreaming and feeling  oh, so happy ! When
I arrived at the Ashleighs, Bernard, the old
butler, asked me to walk in ; he thought
*' Master Edward," as he calls him, was

about the grounds. So as I was rather
tired, I went Into the library, and there  '

What did you do there, PhylHda ? '

Oh, nothing  nothing in particular, onl)-
read the captain's newspapers, and  '

Ah, he Is a rare old fellow for newspapers,
I know, and takes them In from
all parts of the world.'

Yes, yes, Bernard,' interrupted his wife
excitedly, ' and they are very interesting,
and so I sat reading them, and  and  oh,
I am so glad to be back again with you,'
she cried disconnectedly, as she flung herself
into his arms  ' back again here In my
dear, dea home, safe and well with you.
For as I sat in that library, Bernard, a
sudden fright seized me, and I thought,
supposing  supposing  something were to
happen to you whilst I was away, and I
should never see you more  or die before
we met again  and as the thought struck
me, I rushed out to my pony chaise and
jumped in, and drove home as fast as ever

I could. But you had not returned  and It
has seemed hours  weeks  centuries, since
I waited for you here ! Oh, if anything
had happened to prevent our meeting, it
would have been too, too terrible  and
just now ! '

My dearest girl,' said Bernard, ' you are
still too much excited for health. Try and
calm yourself, Phyllida. To think that you
should love me like this is the purest pleasure
I could experience ; but you must not
give way to idle fears. God is above us
all, remember, and my life and yours are
always safe in His hands.' -

Oh yes, Berne, and I will never be so
foolish again  never ! I am all right now,
indeed I am  and so  so happy, you cannot
think.'

She gazed into his face with her sparkling
eyes as she spoke, and he thought he
had never seen her look so beautiful. There
was perfect peace and contentment at Briar-wood
that day, and for many months afterwards,

and Bernard never thought to inquire
more closely Into the reason of so unaccountable
a change in the demeanour of his
wife. That it had changed was all he cared
for. Neither did it seem likely to distress
him again. From the period of her visit
to the Ashleighs' library, a calm happiness
settled down upon the young mistress of
the rectory, and she was an altered being.
The feverish bursts of gaiety with which she
used to startle her husband entirely disappeared
; but they were succeeded by an
equable cheerfulness that was far better
suited to domestic life.

She now sought the society of Laura
Freshfield as eagerly as once she had repulsed
it, and responded with so much
warmth to her overtures of affection, that
the sisters-in-law became devoted friends.
This happy result was followed by a participation
in all Laura's pursuits, either in
the parish or out of it, and before long it
was no unusual occurrence for Bernard, on

entering the house of a sick parishioner,
to find his wife sitting by the bedside and
begging the tedious hours with her reading
or conversation.

The ' parson's bonnie lady ' was soon as
much loved in Bluemere as himself, and
every day her husband's heart seemed to
twine its tendrils faster and closer round
her own.

Meanwhile, there was no more devoted
wife in the country than Phyliida.

Her love for Bernard was so mixed with
reverence and gratitude that she seemed
never to be able to do enough to express
it to him. She loved him more with the
affection a dog bears to its master, than
the wives of the present century think
it dignified to display. There was none
of the overweening pride of power in
Phyllida's manner, although she could
govern her husband by the lifting of her
little finger. On the contrary, she was
humble and low-minded in the extreme.

She would watch his face to see if she
could read his thoughts before he spoke
them, and run to fetch and carry for him
like a little dog, taking a delight in forestalling
the servants, and even his own
wishes.

Bernard would reprove her lovingly for
such undignified behaviour, but she did not
alter it. To wait on him, to obey his
slightest word, and to accompany him
wherever he would take her, seemed to
fill up the measure of her existence.

Of course her conduct could not be
unnoticed at Blue ]\Iount, and even Mrs
Freshfield was compelled to remark that
although she ' was afraid poor Phyllida
did not come of very good blood, there
was no doubt she made Bernard happy,
and that was, after all, the main thing.'

But that is not all, mamma,' Laura
would reply indignantly. ' Phyllida does
almost as much good in the parish as
Berne himself. I don't mean to say she

VOL. II K

carries about a basket like that detestable
Annie Warren ; and why should she, when
she has plenty of people to carry it for
her ? But she takes care that no comfort
for the sick shall ever be wanting from
Briarwood, and she goes and sees them,
and talks to them ; oh, in such a nice way,
just as if they were her equals ! The poor
people about here perfectly adore Phyllida,
mamma. They say she is a " real lady,
without any pride in her ; " and call her
the 'parsons Bonnie wife's and the '' parsons
angel!' and all kinds of pretty names.
And the scarlet fever is very bad over at
Brick Common now you know  the Tanners
lost two of their little ones last week
and Miss Warren has left off visiting
there, but Phyllida goes all the same, and
she sat up a whole night with poor Mrs
Tanner when she was in such distress.
And Berne, although he is very nervous
about her, wont tell her not to go, because
he says she is one of God's angels.

and under His especial care. Isn't that
nice ? '

Mrs Freshfield's answer was somewhat
cautious.

'Well, of course, my dear, it is very
good of your sister-in-law to try and comfort
the poor creatures, and if your brother
does not forbid her to do so, no one else
has the right to interfere. Still, I think
Phyllida might have some consideration for
you and others of her friends, to whom she
is very likely to bring home the infection.'

Laura glanced at her mother somewhat
contemptuously. Was this the fruit of
the religion upon which Mrs Freshfield
had moulded her life for the last sixty
years,  to tremble at the proximity of a
pestilence that, at the worst, according to
her own creed, could only throw open the
fates of that heaven which she believed
she should walk straight into ? The girl,
with all her young life before her, had
no such fear !

You needn't be afraid for me, mamma,'
she answered ; ' but if you think there is
any chance of your catching it, I will goto
Briarwood and stay there until the
danger of infection is past.'

But Mrs Freshfield, whatever her private
opinion, could never have consented to let
the public know that she was not ready
for glory, and so Laura and Phyllida
worked on together, heart and soul, and
spared neither time nor trouble till the
fever had abated, and the little ones were
running about Brick Common again in
their usual health.

RS PINNER had a grievance
a daily and hourly grievance 
and I regret to add that it was
a worldly one, full of envy, malice, and all
uncharitableness. Bernard and Phyllida had
asked her sister, Mrs Penfold, to spend
Christmas at Briarwood, and Mrs Penfold
had accepted the invitation. Mrs Penfold
had actually left Captain Barclay and Miss
Annadale to the tender mercies of Sarah, and
such assistance as was considered necessary,
and come to play at being a fine lady in
Bluemere. To Mrs Pinner, who had never
been invited to do more than dine at the

rectory, the thought of her sister Maria
living in the very bosom of Bernard Fresh-field's
family, and located in the best bedroom,
with amber hangings, was gall and
wormwood, and all the more so because
she dared not confide her jealousy to anyone
but herself.

Her whole comfort consisted in reading
the * Seventh Vial,' and shaking her head
over the delightful conviction that when it
was opened she should be able to hear from
her throne of gold, even above the twanging
of her harp-strings, the frizzling made by
her sister Maria as she wa's tossed like a
pancake from one infuriated demon to another
in the nethermost hell.

To think,' she said to herself, ' that
Maria, who was ever one of the worldly-minded,
leaning to all sorts of gaiety and
carnal pleasures, should be living at Briar-wood
and driving all over the country In a
carriage and pair, with that stuck-up Phyllis
by her side ; whilst. If they ask nie to

dinner, they don't even send the pony chaise
to fetch me. The poor minister must indeed
have been led astray from his duty by that
o-Irl before he would have dreamt of seto



ting up my sister ]Iaria over one of the
elect. And to see the gown she wore to
church last Sunday, too ! Black silk at ten
shillings the yard, If it cost a penny. The
woman must be robbing her employers to
be able to pay for such luxuries. I am
greatly afraid her feet are already set upon
the broad path. And the way in which
Phyllida and she spoke of those disreputable
lodgings at Gatehead before all the servants,
perfectly shocked me ! \\'hat respect can
they entertain for their minister after hearing
such a confession ? I thought I should
have swooned. I must ask Maria to spend
a quiet evening with me, and talk to her
about such things. After all the trouble I
have taken to live amongst these people as
my father's daughter, and one of the Lord's
chosen should live, to have a sister who lets

lodgings come and sit down at my very
door, is too trying ! I must entreat her, if
she has no respect for herself, at least to
have some for me.'

Meanwhile Mrs Penfold (who was not yet
aware of the feelings to which her advent
had given birth in Mrs Pinner's breast) was
enjoying herself, as she had not done for
years past, beneath the hospitable roof of
Briarwood.

Bernard Freshfield had not forgotten
the kind part which his wife's cousin
played at the time of their marriage, and
there was no false shame  in his manly
nature to mar the pleasure with which he
repaid it.

Had Mrs Penfold been a duchess she could
not have been waited on and served more
assiduously than she was at Briarwood ; and
Bernard would have had her take up her
residence there altogether and make it her
home, had she not been too independent to
accept his offer.

Your husband is an angel, my dear,' she
said to PhylHda, 'and you are the very
luckiest girl I ever heard of; but I couldn't
be happy eating another person's bread whilst
I have two hands of my owen to earn it with.
And what would the captain say if he heard
I was going to desert him for good ? Why,
it was with the greatest difficulty I could
feet his leave to come here at all. I was
quite a fortnight coaxing it out of him. x\nd
poor Miss Annadale cried when I left Gate-head,
Phyllida  actually cried; but she is not
quite right in her head, you know, my dear,
so it is excusable on her part. And I should
have been truly sorry to miss seeing you
in your happiness. What a good, dear husband
you have, child, and what an elegant
home ! You are indeed a fortunate creature.
And the cloud you once spoke to me of at
Gatehead, Phyllida  that depressing, uncomfortable
feeling that I told you was so
unnatural  it has all passed away now of
course, my dear, and you are quite happy

and contented,' concluded Mrs Penfold somewhat
curiously.

Phyllida flushed deeply, and for a moment
did not answer. Then she said slowly, 

Yes, cousin Penfold, I am very happy,
and very contented  sometimes I think I
am too happy for It to last  and always
that I am far happier than I deserve. And
if the old depressing thoughts return at times
to damp my pleasure, I put them away, and
hope I am right in doing so. For they
could only make my husband anxious about
me ; and you told me, didn't you, that it
was my deity to bury all the past and begin
a new and better life for the future ? '

I did indeed, my dear, and I meant it.
You have many more luxuries and blessings
than most people, and all you have to dois
to let your heart overflow with thankfulness,
and make dear Mr Freshfield as perfectly
happy as you can. It would be a sin
to rake up old memories that can do no
good, and only infuse bitter into the cup

which Heaven has been o-ood enough to fill
for you.'

Yes, that Is what I thought,' said Phyllis,
with a sigh of relief

I am going to ask you if you will spare
me for this evening,' continued Nlrs Penfold.
My sister Charlotte has written to ask me
to take tea with her, and I don't like to refuse,
as it is some time since we have been alone
together, and she mustn't think I've grown
proud because I'm visiting at Briarwood.'

No ; she shall not do that !' replied Phyllis,
laughing ; ' and so I will send you down
in my little pony chaise, cousin Penfold, and
you can order it to fetch you again at anytime
you like.'

So at six o'clock that evening the pony
chaise deposited Mrs Penfold at the door of
Mrs Pinner, who received her in a purple
merino gown, with a pink ribbon at her throat,
and artificial roses in her cap ; yet looked,
nevertheless, with righteous sorrow at the
plain but rich dress worn by her sister, and

which was one of the numerous presents
showered upon her by her young relations.


I am pleased to receive you In my humble
abode, Maria commenced Mrs Pinner
solemnly,  for I almost feared that the attention
you have been receiving at Briarwood
would make you despise the hospitality of
one who has little to offer you beside the
divine food, which Is provided for all those
who earnestly hunger after it.'

Well, I don't know why you should say
that, Charlotte,' replied Mrs Penfold briskly,
as she laid aside her out-door garments. ' I
have never refused an invitation of yours
yet, that I am aware of; but It is not many
that you have extended to me since I lived
at Gatehead. I supposed you were ashamed
of me because I let lodgings ? '

I cannot say that I consider letting lodgings
a fit occupation for one of our father's
daughters  the daughters of a minister of
the gospel.'

Yes, a Dissenting minister, elected by
his own sect, who held his services In a
barn,' replied Mrs Penfold ; ' but father was
a shoemaker before he turned preacher.
I suppose you haven't forgotten that, sister
Charlotte.'

I have not forgotten what Is due to
myself,' said }>Irs Pinner, bridling ; ' and It
surprises me, Maria, to hear you allude to
poor father's misfortunes in that heartless
manner ! It is the same thing with your
own calling  you speak as openly of your
lodgers and your lodgings as a duchess
would mention her country seat. I do wish
you would have a little consideration for
what / must suffer in the eyes of my friends
by such a confession.'

Well, I am sorry If I have hurt your feelings,
Charlotte, but your friends can't be
worth much if the fact of my poverty makes
any difference to them. Mr Freshest and
Phyllida are not ashamed of It, as you may
plainly see.'

Oh ! the poor minister,' said Mrs Pinner,
tossing her head, ' is completely led by
what his wife says ; and as for Phyllida,
I daresay she has her own reasons for
keeping on good terms with you. She
has not forgotten, doubtless, that, but for
your assistance, she would never have been
married at all.'

I don't know why you should say so,
Charlotte. / had no hand in the matter,
except in accompanying them to the church.
The young people had made up their
minds long before they saw me.'

Mr Freshfield does not' seem to be of
your opinion, Maria. He told me the
other day he owed his wife to you. And
he tries to pay off the debt by making
you handsome presents, if I am not much
mistaken said Mrs Pinner, with a spiteful
glance at her sister's silk dress.

Yes, indeed, he is most generous and
kind to me,' returned Mrs Penfold, 'although
I hope he does not consider that he owes

me anything. He has given me four or
five most handsome dresses (this is one
of them, Charlotte; just feel this silk  it
must have cost a lot of money) and a fur-lined
cloak for the winter, and one of the
most complete writing-tables you ever saw
just the very thing I wanted, and fits
into my recess as if it had been made
for it. Indeed, he has been good enough
to propose that I should take up my residence
altogether at Briarwood and relieve
Phyllida of the troubles of housekeeping ;
but that is an offer I could not accept.'

The minister seems to have a deep
sense of the obligation you have put him
under,' remarked Mrs Pinner sarcastically,
and it is a very handsome return for just
going to church with them. I suppose the
marriage was all right and regular ? '

Why, bless my soul I Charlotte, what a
question to put about our own cousin.
Of course it was. I saw the licence myself;
and as I am one of Pallida's nearest

relations in England, I had a perfect right
(the minister told me) to give her away.'

'Well, there was no one to object toit
If you hadn't. I suppose the girl has
relations in St Domingo, since her parents
lived there, but she never received a letter
while she stayed with me, which I thought
rather peculiar. Has she ever mentioned
anyone to you, either on the father's or
the mother's side } because you may remember
Agnes Summers' people settled In
the West Indies too.'

No, she never has ; and now you mention
the circumstance, It is' peculiar,' replied
Mrs Penfold meditatively.

Now Mrs Pinner, notwithstanding she
professed to know all about Phyllida to the
Bluemere people, and plumed herself considerably
on the fact of her being the rector's
wife, was in reality excessively curious to
find out something more about her cousin's
antecedents, and it was chiefly with that
object that she had asked Mrs Penfold to

take tea with her. She knew that, however
alienated her sister and she had been of late
years, and however stiffly they had met each
other at Briarwood, the familiarity of a close
relationship is not easily dissolved, and that
a cup of tea would probably soon loosen the
string of Maria's tongue. And she was not
mistaken. When the ladies were comfortably
ensconced before the tea equipage, and the
buttered toast had been sent up exactly to
their satisfaction, the conversation became
more sisterly and confidential.

Of course,' observed Mrs Pinner, ' I was
as pleased as yourself that our cousin should
make so good a marriage. We have plenty
of young ladies in Bluemere,  pious, well-trained,
and domestic girls,  and it was a
matter of great surprise when the minister
passed them over in favour of Phyllida
Moss. For though I cannot deny she fills
the position well,  in point of looks and
dress, and so forth,  yet Phyllida has not
yet been ' called Maria, and if you have

VOL. II. L

any remembrance of the teachings of our
estimable parents, or knowledge of the ways
of the elect, you must confess that what I
say is true.'

Phyllida doesn't talk much,' replied kindhearted
Mrs Penfold, ' but she does more
than many ladies in her position would
trouble themselves to do. She is constantly
employed amongst the sick in the parish.
And she is a most devoted wife, Charlotte,
no one can deny that. Mr Freshfield perfectly
adores her.'

'Is it a justifiable thing for a clergyman
to adore a frail mortal creature, or to let his
friends thinks he does so '. Oh, I see a sad
difference in Mr Freshfield since his marriage,
Maria, though I would say so to no
one but yourself. But he is always in a
hurry to get home now, and scarcely ever
has time for a chat or a cup of tea, as he
used to have. And his marrying Phyllida
was a sad blovr at Blue Mount ! I have
that on the very best authority.'

o

Mrs Penfold was about to reply, when
her attention was directed to a figure coming
up the garden path. It was that of Annie
Warren, eager and excited, from a certain
circumstance that had just taken place at
Westertown.

I am afraid you are going to have a
visitor, Charlotte,' she said, ' and that our
conversation will be interrupted

Mrs Pinner glanced from the window.

My dear, it is only Annie Warren, one
of the best creatures in the world, and devoted
to me. You can speak as freely as you
choose before her ; in fact, she is a bosom
friend both at Briarwood and Blue Mount,
and knows as much about Phyllida as we do.'

I could not discuss such private matters
before a stranger,' replied Mrs Penfold.

But Miss Warren's enthusiastic and gushing
manner soon drove this resolution out
of her head. She entered the room evidently
brimful of news, or eager to extract some
information from her hostess.

You dear, dear thing she cried, falling
upon Mrs Pinner's neck,  (Miss Warren had
been rather given to displaying this exuberant
affection for Mrs Pinner lately),  ' I am
so glad to find you have a friend to talk to ;
I was half afraid you were alone this evening.
Your sister, is it ? Oh, I am pleased
to have an opportunity of making her acquaintance.
I might have guessed she was
your sister though, for she has just your
own sweet smile ! I hope you are going
to make a long stay in Bluemere, Mrs
Penfold ? It will be such a treat for dear
Mrs Pinner to have you here. She is
always talking of you, and longing for your
company. Aren't you, dear ? ' concluded
Miss Warren affectionately.

Come, come, you naughty girl,' replied
her hostess, delighted at the small homage
paid her, 'you must take off your hat and
sit down and have a cup of tea with us.
No, not one more kiss. You know it is all
nonsense, and you don't mean it.'

'How unkind!' said Miss Annie, with
a reproachful glance, * when you know you
are my very best friend. Do you think /
would have run away and left you for the
first person who asked me, as somebody
else did ? '

Well, I don't know replied Mrs Pinner,
with unintentional sarcasm. ' If the minister
had been the person, I think you would.'

The minister !' cried Miss Annie, with
ineffable scorn. ' No indeed, Mrs Pinner,
the minister would never have had the
power to tempt me away from any one.
If ever I marry, my husband must be a
man of sense and strength of character,
and not a poor, weak creature like Mr
Freshfield, who can be led by anybody.'

Dear me,' said Mrs Penfold, * you surprise
me, Miss Warren. I have always
considered Mr Freshfield to be a young
man of so much determination and power.'

Miss Annie smiled.

And yet you are staying at Briarwood,

Mrs Penfold ? How blind you must be !
Can't you see how Mrs Bernard leads her
husband by the nose ? His poor dear
mother is quite distressed about it. She
nearly cried when she spoke of them yesterday
afternoon. Oh, you mustn't mind
my speaking so openly, but Mrs Pinner will
tell you that I am quite like one of the
family at Blue Mount, as I used to be ' 
with a deep sigh  ' at the rectory, when
my darling Alice was mistress there.'

'Yes, indeed!' echoed Mrs Pinner; *and
as you ought to be now, my dear, considering
all the trouble you took on their behalf.
Why, this dear girl was nurse and housekeeper,
and everything you may say, Maria,
to the minister's first wife ; and how he can
ever forget it, passes my comprehension.
But there will be a reward laid up for you,
my dear, in the next world.'

I know that, dear Mrs Pinner,' said Miss
Annie modestly ; * but it comes a little hard
sometimes, does it not? However, I have

done my duty  that is my satisfaction ; and
if Mr Freshfield's eyes are blinded to It
now, they may not be so always.'

\ Don't you and Phyllida get on well
together ? ' demanded Mrs Penfold bluntly.

Oh yes, my dear madam ; and it is no
question of getting on well  It is the sad
incontestable fact that dear Mrs Bernard
has not yet heard the voice of grace calling
her into the fold, and the ways and words
of her husband's former friends do not suit
her. It was different with our sweet Alice.
She was truly a child of heaven.'

My cousin seems to take unusual interest
in her husband's parish though. I heard
Mr Freshfield reprove her to-day for going
out in the rain to practise with the church
choir.'

Oh yes, her singing is charming, no
doubt of that  almost too charming, one
might say, for a private lady. Our organist,
Mr Barnes, quite thought Mrs Bernard was
a professional artist when he first heard her.

He said there was a tone about a regularly-trained
voice that was unmistakable. But
(as I told him) that must be quite impossible.'

Quite impossible,' repeated Mrs Penfold
decisively.

A professional artist !  our cousin,' ejaculated
Mrs Pinner. ' Oh dear, what an
awful report to get about the village ! I
hope you checked it at once, Miss Warren ?
It would be the death of poor Mrs Fresh-field
if it reached Blue Mount.'

'Of course I checked it, dear Miss Pinner.
I said how could it be, when Mrs Bernard
came here straight from *St Domingo. I
am afraid the climate had an effect upon
her health, Mrs Penfold  she is not very
strong.'

Not strong ! You surprise me. I considered
she had so vastly improved since her
marriage. She looks blooming to me.'

Ah, she has a nice colour sometimes ;
yes, but these fainting fits are not a good
sign.'

I was not aware that Phyliida was given
to that weakness. Does she faint often ? '

I don't know, but she faints very easily.
I was at Briar wood about two months ago,
at breakfast time  I often run in on business
matters, you know : he likes me to do so 
and Mr Freshfield was in the midst of reading
us one of his letters, when down she
dropped in a swoon, or at least she said it
was one.'

Poor thing ! ' exclaimed Mrs Penfold concernedly
; ' you don't mean to say so ? '

'Yes,' continued Miss Annie, with her
gaze fixed upon her two companions, ' it was
just as he was reading a letter from an old
friend of his, Mr Nelson Cole,'

But not the faintest token of recognition
passed over either lady's face.

It must have been the heat,' observed
Mrs Pinner.

I don't think so,' said Miss Warren ; ' I
fancied it was something in the letter. perhaps
the name was familiar to her. Mrs

Bernard always looks to me as if she had
had trouble.'

Ah, poor dear,' ejaculated Mrs Penfold,
with an ominous shake of the head.

What ! do you know anything about it,
Maria?' demanded Mrs Pinner curiously.

I know Phyllida has had heavy trouble,'
replied her sister, ' because she confided as
much to me in Gatehead. She said her past
weighed terribly upon her mind, and I told
her it was her duty to forget it all as soon
as possible. For what good does it do us
to be always raking up old worries and
fretting ourselves because ,we can't remedy
them ? '

I don't think you were right, Maria. Perhaps
it was the rod of grace designed to
chasten her and keep her low ; we should
be careful how we interfere with the designs
of Providence. But doubtless you meant it
for the best.'

Of course I did. I thought it a pity that
a fine young girl like Phyllida should waste

her life in lamenting things that could never
be undone, especially when there was a goodman
like jNIr Freshfield ready to help her to
forget them.'

 And you have not heard the name of
Nelson Cole before, then ? He is not likely
to be connected in any way with the past
troubles of Mrs Bernard Freshfield ? ' said
Miss Annie inquisitively.

'Not in any way that we know of,
though of course he may have been a
friend of her father's,' replied Mrs Pinner.
We never knew Mr Moss, you must
remember. Our only connection with Mrs
Bernard comes through her mother, and as
we never saw Phyllida till she came to
Bluemere, she may have dozens of friends
and connections of whom we know nothing.'

It is strange you should have heard so
little of her former life. She is not very
communicative,' persisted Miss Warren ; but
at the same time she resolved to say nothing
4of the news she was burnings to reveal.

Since the two old ladles could not assist
her, she was determined they should not
spoil probable sport.

And where have you been to-day ? ' inquired
Mrs Pinner presently, as she glanced
at her visitor s unusually festive attire.

I have been spending the day at Watertown
replied Miss Warren. ' My brother
had business there, and as I wanted to doa
little shopping I accompanied him. And
we dined at the Crown Hotel, and they were
so busy, you can't think.'

Was it market day ? ' asked Mrs Penfold
innocently.

No ; but there are several strangers
staying there, and all their luggage was
piled up in the hall, and I  '

But here Miss Warren stopped short, as
though she could not trust herself to proceed
any further. Presently she went on, 

Is Mrs Bernard at home this evening, Mrs
Penfold ? Do you think I shall be intruding
if I run in to Briarwood for half-an-hour ? *



I know she is at home replied Mrs
Penfold, ' and I should not think, since you
are so intimate with them, that you could
intrude.'

'/ should be surprised if it were possible,
considering all you have done for the
minister and his belongings,' interposed Mrs
Pinner.

Well, then, if you two dear creatures
will excuse me, I will leave you again and
run on there, because I wish especially to
ask Mr Freshfield a question regarding the
schools. Good-night, dear Mrs Pinner, and
to you too, dear Mrs Penfold. I feel that
I shall soon love you almost as dearly as I
do your sister.'

The old ladies bid her good night eagerly,
not feeling sorry that they were to have a
little further conversation in private together,
and Miss Annie Warren went on her way
to Briarwood with the sly, malicious expression
of a cat tracking its prey. It was buta
thread she had found in the chain of

evidence her fancy had woven against Phyllis
Freshfield, but a thread that might lead
into a labyrinth of difficulties for the young
couple at the rectory. On one of the trunks
piled in the hall of the Crown Hotel at
Westertown she had read the name of
Nelson Cole.

CHAPTER VI.

?i0ISS WARREN feared at first
 V/1 "' that she had had her walk for
rfeie? nothing, for the news that
greeted her on arriving at Briarwood
was, that both Mr and Mrs Freshfield
were out. The man-servant, who opened
the door to her, and who dished her as
much as his master did, tried all he could
to prevent her entering the house. He
could not tell where either his master or
mistress had gone, nor when they were
likely to return ; it might be that night, it
might be the next morning ; he was sure
it would be useless her remaining in the

hope of seeing them. But Miss Warren
was persistent In her Inquiries, and at last
excited the Intelligence that Mrs Fresh-field
had been sent for In the middle of
dinner to a young girl who was said to be
dying, and that the parson had received
a letter after her departure, which had compelled
him to spend the night away from
home.

So he had left Bluemere not half-an-hour
before, and ordered the servants to
sit up and await their mistress's return.

'A sick girl!' ejaculated Miss Warren;
that must be Sarah Jeffrey's. No one
else is sick at present In Bluemere. Dying !
Pooh ! nonsense. It's only one of her false
alarms. She always thinks she's dying !
Mrs Freshfield will see through the trick
before she has been there half-an-hour. I
shall sit down till she returns.'

Finding his remonstrances vain, the servant
opened the door of the library, in
which there was a large fire burning, and



ushered Miss Warren to the room. She
ensconced herself in Bernard's own armchair,
and being left alone, fell to wondering
what business had called the parson
away from Bluemere. Could he have heard
of the advent of Nelson Cole and gone to
Westertown to meet him, and if so, would
he brings him back to Briarwood ? As
Miss Annie speculated thus, and let her
black eyes range over each article in the
room, they lighted on a note which lay
conspicuously upon the writing-table. It
was a half-sheet of paper, hastily screwed
into the shape of a billet-doux, and addressed
to Phyllida in pencil  just such a
note in fact as a husband unexpectedly
called from home would leave behind him
for the satisfaction of his wife. Miss Warren
had very few absurd scruples with
regard to the dishonour of prying into the
correspondence of another. She seized the
note with alacrity, and made herself mistress
of its contents.

VOL. II. M

Dearest Phyixida,  I have just received
a letter from my dear old chum
Nelson Cole, who is actually in Westertown.
He was suddenly dispatched to England
on some important business connected with
his employers' firm, and says he cannot
go back without paying us a flying visit
at Briarwood. It is so good of the dear
old fellow. I am oroine to see him at the
Crown Hotel at once, and I shall not be
back again until tomorrow morning  perhaps
not till the afternoon, if there is anything
to detain us there. But then I shall
bring him with rhe, and I am sure you will
welcome him for my sake.  Ever dearest,
your loving husband.'

Miss Warren twisted the note round and
round in her fingers.

I wonder if the servants know why he
was called away ? ' she thought. ' I don't
think Edwards does, because he did not
seem quite sure if he had gone to Wester-town,

or somewhere else. Possibly they are
aware their master left a note for his wife in
the library, but then scraps of paper Hke this
are easily lost or mislaid. It will be nothing
very extraordinary if, when they come to
search for it, they find it is gone. Yes ; I
think I shall be quite safe in destroying it.
If Mr Nelson Cole should prove to have
been a friend of Mrs Bernard's, as well as
of her husband, this note will give her time
to prepare herself for meeting him. She
will be taken ill before tomorrow, and have
to go to bed, or to visit the sea-side, or she
will receive a sudden summons somewhere,
and leave Mr Freshfield to do the honours
of Briarwood alone. / know their nasty,
shabby tricks ; and if ever a w-oman looks
as if she could be up to tricks, it's ]airs Bernard
Freshfield ! So I will just drop this
bit of paper in the fire, and leave my lady
to meet Mr Nelson Cole without any warning
of what is before her.'

She walked up to the fire-place as she

thought thus, and threw the note upon the
burning coals. In another instant it was
reduced to ashes. Then Miss Warren rang
the Library bell, and walked towards the
door.

You may show me out, Edwards,' she
said, as she met the servant. * That girl,
Jeffreys, has evidently deceived poor Mrs
Freshfield Into imagining she Is really 111 !
It Is nearly ten o'clock, and I cannot wait
any longer.'

I said I was afraid it would be no use your
waiting, miss,' replied Edwards, as he preceded
her along the warmed and lighted corridor,
and threw open the portals of Briarwood. Ashe
closed them upon her, he muttered something
not entirely complimentary, to the
effect that he wished it were for the last time.
Miss Annie Warren was thoroughly disliked
in the rectory servants' hall. But
when Phyllida returned nearly an hour, afterwards,
she received a very different sort of
reception. It was not only because she was

their masters wife, that she was waited on
so cheerfully by every dependant in his
household. Her kind words and smiles
repaid her servants for all the trouble they
took for her ; and Edwards opened the door
almost as soon as she touched the bell, whilst
Mrs Garnett appeared in the hall to inquire
if she were cold or tired, and her own maid
stood ready to divest her of her wraps,
and exchange her walking shoes for easy
slippers.

No, I'm not tired at all, thank you,
Mrs Garnett,' she said brightly, in answer
to the housekeeper's inquiries, ' only very
cold. There is a bitter frost to-night.
But I am so glad I went. Poor Sarah is
much worse. Dr Jenkins does not think
she will live till the morning  and she was
fretting so to see me. Where is Mr
Freshfield ? In the library ', '

My master is out, if you please, ma'am,'
interposed Edwards ; ' he had a letter
soon after you started, and was obliged

to go to Westertown ; and he is afraid he
wont be able to get back to-night.'

What a blank fell upon Phyllida's heart
at the intelligence ! She had become soused
to the cheering influence of that dear
sunny face of Bernard's and to the tones
of his voice. The prospect of passing
twelve hours without him appeared terrible.
Her sweet face fell to twice its usual
length.

Out ! ' she repeated. * Gone over to
Westertown, and at this time of night !
What can have taken him there ? '

I don't know I'm sure, ma'am,' replied
Edwards respectfully. ' The master was
in a great hurry, and hardly spoke to any
of us. But I think he left a note or a bit
of writing of some sort for you, ma'am,
leastways I fancy he said so, but it maybe
a mistake of mine ; if not, I conclude,
it must be in the library.'

Oh, of course he would write,' cried
Phyllida confidently, as she ran into the

library and searched on every table for a
paper in her husband's hand ; but she could
find none, for the good reason that, as we
have seen, the note he left for her was resolved
to nothing in the burning fire. 

I can't find it, Edwards,' she said, in a
tone of disappointment.

I'm afraid I must have been mistaken
then, ma'am, for as I said before the master
was in a terrible hurry, and spoke very
rapid-like. But it's nothing bad as has
taken him out, for he said he had had capital
good news ; and he'd be home tomorrow
for certain.'

Ah, well, then, I must be content with
that,' said his mistress, with a half laugh
but she felt a little uneasy nevertheless.
It was so unlike Bernard to leave home
without further explanation than he could
afford to servants. Mrs Penfold's return
was some sort of comfort to Phyllida, and
they sat up late together, suggesting all
sorts of reasons to each other for the parson's

sudden disappearance, but were finally
obliged to separate for the night without
having come to any conclusion, excepting
that they were equally anxious for the
morrow to bring them the solution of the
riddle.

Meanwhile Bernard's capital horses had
carried him quickly to Westertown, and he
was enjoying himself thoroughly in the
company of Nelson Cole, whom he found
hearty and congenial as ever. He had had
a double reason for setting off so speedily to
welcome his old friend. Not only was he
anxious to prove that his feelings were unchanged,
but he felt rather shy at having to
break to him the news that all his grand
resolutions with regard to a second marriage
were broken, and he was already in the
possession of another wife. He thought he
could stand the first looks of astonishment,
and the cynical remarks that were sure to
follow his announcement, better if he were
alone with Nelson Cole than in the presence

of Phyllida. So he had started off, determined
to get it all over that evening, and
bring his friend back to Briarwood the
next day, fully prepared to greet and approve
his choice.

The warm welcome he received as soon
as he had placed his foot inside the ' Crown '
was all that Bernard's heart could desire,
and it was a long time before Nelson Cole
could leave off shaking the hand of the
boy with the monkish, close-shorn face,
whom,' he had acknowledged to himself, ' he
took so deep an interest in.'

And is this really you, Freshfield ? ' he
kept on exclaiming. ' Driven out seven
miles on a winter's night in order that you
may meet an old chum twelve hours earlier !
I am glad of it. It is like yourself, my boy.
It proves that your profession has not
altered your nature, and that you still have
a corner in your heart for the wicked ones
of the earth, and a remembrance of the jolly
old days at Oxford when I used to give you

youngsters suppers at my rooms, and help
you to evade the vigilance of the dons in
the morning. Ha! ha! ha!'

When you used to be the very kindest
and jolliest and most generous friend a
young fellow ever possessed cried Bernard.
No ; may I perish before I forget it  or
you ! You can't think how delighted I was
to receive your letter, Cole ! Your last
spoke so definitely of your remaining in the
States that it was the most joyful surprise
I think if it hadn't been for the servants,
and that they would have thought it undignified
in a parson, I should have jumped
for joy. I know I ran off in such hurry and
confusion, that I don't think they have the
least idea where I have gone to.'

That doesn't matter, my boy ! that's
the best of a man being unshackled by
any ties  he can come and go as he pleases
without asking leave of anybody  in fact,
he is free. And now you are come, you
will stay, Bernard ? You must be my guest

for to-night ; and tomorrow, if it so pleases
you, I will run back with you to Bluemere
and enliven your loneliness with a few days
of my society.'

I hope you will make it a good many
days, my dear old friend,' said Bernard.

I should like it above all things, but
I fear it is impossible. A week must bethe
outside of my visit. I am due at
Liverpool on the loth of next month. But
it is very good to see you, if only for a
week, my son. And how well you are
looking, boy. Not much like a disconsolate
widower, eh ? '

But I thought I told you I was not
disconsolate ! ' replied Bernard sheepishly.

Ah yes, to be sure, you wrote me
the most wonderful letter, all about the
impossibility of your ever marrying again
wasn't that it ? on account of not being
able to find a true soul union. But come,
don't look so foolish about it. You're
quite right, my boy, and the longer you

stick to such principles the better. Looking
out for a soul union may keep you
from worse scrapes, and as you will never
find it, the close of your life will see you
just such another jolly careless bachelor
as I am.'

But  but  perhaps what I told you I
so earnestly desired, Cole, may not be so
entirely out of my reach as you seem to
imagine stammered the parson.

Well, look here, Bernard, we'll discuss
that matter presently  it's too hard a nut
to crack standing. Now, which are you
for, dinner or supper ? '

Neither, thank you. I dined at seven
this evening. In fact we  I had done
dinner when your letter arrived.'

'Just so! well, I have dined myself, so
we agree on that point. You smoke, I
suppose ? '

Oh yes ! That is a habit I cannot persuade
myself to relinquish.'

Why should you '. Is it wrong ? What

can you manage over your pipe. I always
take whisky and water.'

And I will join you, Cole. I like nothing
better.'

All right, my boy.' So the order was
given, and the two men sat down opposite
each other with their pipes in their mouths,
ripe to unbosom themselves of their dearest
secrets. For what letting down her back
hair is said to be to a woman, lighting his
pipe is to a man, and crass ignorance alone
supposes that the difficulty of keeping a
secret is confined to one sex. But for a
few moments they smoked on in silence,
whilst Nelson Cole was thinking into what
a fine fellow young Freshfield had developed
; and Bernard considered in what
words he should introduce the subject of
his marriage, so as to excite the least.
amount of ridicule at the hands of hi:>
friend.

And so you are living in fine style, I
suppose, up at Briarwood ?' remarked Nelson

Cole presently ; ' that was a splendid pair of
cobs you drove over just now.'

Yes, they are considered good horses.
I bought them of Lord Underlie, and I
keep up a very fair establishment. I ottght
to, you know, with my income.'

Two thousand a-year, isn't it, with another
six or seven hundred from the living ?
A very good income indeed for a single man,
Bernard. How do you contrive to spend it
all ? '

Oh, it goes easily enough,' replied the
other with a nervous laugh. ' I keep seven
or eight servants in the house alone, and we
have half-a-dozen horses in the stables, and
my farm is more expense than profit to me.'

What can you want with half-a-dozen
horses ? You can't exercise them all yourself,
and eight servants too ! It's a mistake,
Bernard, my boy, to keep people and animals
eating their heads off, however large your
income may be. You should see the establishment
with which I travel in the States.

One man  one horse ! It makes no difference
to me if I am in New York or a
village. I never exceed it, and it's enough
for anyone in the world

Yes, I quite agree with you, Cole, if 
if  that is, while a man is single. But otherwise
one must keep up a certain establishment
for the sake of one's position in the
county, and  '

Quite true,' interrupted Cole, ' only as
you do not intend to marry again  '

I know I wrote something of the kind
to you  a long time ago though, wasn't it .
but I have been trying to tell you several
times since we met that  that  in fact  I
ant married again, and have been for the
last six months.'

What?' exclaimed Nelson Cole, pushing
back his chair and staring in young Fresh-field's
blushing face, ' what is that you say ?
Married again ! Found the soul union so
speedily ! Satisfied your heart's hungering
after a true mate. O Jupiter ! O Venus !

Why can't you confine your machinations
to us poor mortals who never boasted of our
virtue, and not go turning the parsons upside
down in this worldly fashion ? Is it
possible, Bernard ? Married again ? And
where did you find her, my boy? In a
palace or on a dunghill  clothed in satin
or rags ? Oh, ye gods and little fishes !'
you have upset all my calculations. I came
here prepared to stare at a real live voluntarily
elected monk, and I find nothing but
an ordinary Benedict, henpecked, most probably,
like the remainder of his species.
Married again I I can't believe it ! I must
ring for some more whisky and water. '

Go on laughing at me,' said Bernard.
I quite expected it, and perhaps I deserve
it ; but all the same, Cole, I am very
happy.'

 Of course you are happy, my boy. They
always are happy for the first few months.
Amaryllis retains every virginal charm that
first attracted you to her; until some day

she loses her temper or her figure, or bolts
with your dearest friend. But yo2tr Amaryllis
has servants and carriages and horses
at her command, so perhaps she will behave
herself, at all events till some one richer
than you are spends a summer In Bluemere.'

Don't talk like that  there's a dear
fellow,' replied Bernard gravely, ' or at all
events not of my wife. You don't know
what she is, Cole, or you would not sneer
at my faith In her. And I will not try to
tell you ; you will see her tomorrow, and
be able to judge for yourself.'

I'm no judge of women,' returned Cole
curtly ; ' I have not seen enough of them
to become so ; and I class them all in
one lump as the natural enemies of man.
They stick to him  true ! as the horseleech
sticks to Its victim until every drop
of blood has been drawn from his offspring.
No, I am afraid you would not consider
my opinion worth having, Freshfield. I
don't deny the necessity of women in the

VOL. II. N

world. I am only sorry when I see one
of my friends In their clutches. They are
creatures to be bent to our purposes  not
queens to tyrannise over our fortunes.'

But all that Bernard Freshfield answered
was, 

You have not yet seen my Phyllida.'

What did you say was her name ? '

Her maiden name was Phyllida Moss.
She Is a cousin of one of our oldest residents
In Bluemere.'

You had known the lady a long time,
then ? '

No,' replied Bernard consciously ; 'a very
short time, if you count by weeks.'

'How the deuce should I count?' said
Cole ; ' I suppose she Is handsome ? a pretty
face will lead a man to perdition.'

People tell me she is beautiful, but I
hardly seem to see It. I only know that
she is mine, and that I love her.'

An old story,' grumbled Cole, ' and one
that thousands of fellows have told before.

Only there is' generally a sequel to it.
There generally comes a day when they
wish she belonged to anybody else. Ah,
Bernard, my lad, I'm sorry to find you in
the toils again ; but so long as your wife
doesn't forbid your smoking a pipe and
drinking a glass of whisky and water with
an old friend, you may manage to pull
through life yet.'

Phyllida is not that sort of woman
said Bernard fervently ; ' she leaves me as
absolutely free as I wish to leave her ; and
I am sure, when you have seen her in her
own house, that however little you may
care for her sex, Cole, you will acknowledge
she is all that a woman ought to be.
I married her because I felt her to be so
sweet and lovable, I longed for her daily
companionship and sympathy, and I told
her plainly that I did not wish her to take
any part of the parish duty. Yet I put no
restraint on her actions, and the result is,
that her own sweet, womanly nature has

led her to do more than many who assume
such cares, from the mere sense of right.
She is the angel of Bluemere. There is
not a house that harbours sickness or trouble
but what knows the comfort of Phyllida's
presence. I have seen mothers swooning
over their little one's death-beds in her arms ;
I have seen children die there. I have
watched the looks of gratitude and eager
expectation with which the sick have greeted
her approach. I have heard the blessings
that have been poured out upon her head,
and I have thanked God who, in giving
her to me, has given her also to those
suffering people, who require her perhaps
more than I do. But what she is to me,
Heaven and my own heart alone can tell !
Laugh at me if you will, Cole, I only speak
the truth.'

There was silence between the friends
for some minutes after the young husband's
speech was ended.

I am not going to laugh, Bernard,' said

Cole at length ; * I don't even feel inclined
to do so. I daresay your wife is all that
you believe her to be ; even if she were not,
you are a lucky man to be able to believe
it. But let us understand each other, old
friend. I don't wish to say anything disrespectful
of Mrs Freshfield. She may bean
angel (and in that case you will allow
that, in speaking of women, I do not touch
her) ; but you are right in saying I don't
care for the sex. I have had little reason
to do so ; and much as I love you, I am
not quite sure that I should have volunteered
a visit to Briarwood had I known
you had re-established a mistress there. I
began life with much the same ardour as
you have, my boy. I believed that every
beautiful face I saw was the index of a
nature as beautiful as itself, and I got into
several awkward scrapes in consequence.
But it took some years to break down my
confidence. I went on and on, hoping
against hope, to find the ideal woman I

sighed for, and when I did find her (as I
believed), she turned out worse than the
whole lot put together. Then my eyes
were opened to see the sex as they really
are, and I have been much happier since.
I have left off expecting impossibilities, and
am content to take woman for what she is,
a weaker, more foolish, and rather less moral
specimen of humanity than ourselves ; and
that is not saying much for her.'

Dear Cole,' replied Bernard affectionately,
' you must have been very hard hit
to talk like this. I had no idea you had
ever had anything to do with women.
We always considered you such a regular
Saint Kevin at college.'

Which is as good as saying you didn't
think I was a man ! No, my boy, we
can't do without women in this world 
but we can avoid the error of believing
them to be more than women. You are
still young and  for your age  very fresh !
When you have reached my time of life

you will talk differently. I can only hope
your awakening may not be as bitter as
was mine. And now let us speak of something
more congenial. I am anxious to
take back an English hunter with me to
the States. Can you recommend me to
an honest dealer with a good stud ? '

Bernard sighed. He would have liked
to sit up half the night discussing Phyllida's
virtues with his friend, but he saw that the
subject bored, if it did not annoy him, and
wisely dropped it. He could only hope
that the siofht of his wife's beautiful face,
and the charm of her girlish manner, might
have the effect of winning over Nelson
Cole to his own way of thinking. But
for that he must wait for the morrow.
The next morning he drove his friend over
to the stables of a well-known breeder,
some ten miles distant from Westertown, so
that it was far advanced in the afternoon,
almost dusk, in fact, when he turned his
horses' heads into the Briarwood drive.

His heart was beating rapidly by that
time, for it was the first occasion since his
marriage that he had been absent from
PhylHda for more than an hour or two,
and he was impatient to look upon her
again and to present her to his friend.
As they came in view of the house, which
Nelson Cole admired without stint, Fresh-field
could hear nothing that was said to
him for the eagerness with which his eye
roved over the lawn and garden paths,
to catch a sight of his wife's figure, and
when he saw it, he became childish in his
delight. Cole was just asking him, in
what style of architecture Briarwood Hall
was built, when Phyllida, clad in fur and
velvet, and followed by a rough St Bernard
mastiff" and two or three smaller
dogs, came quickly round the house to
meet them.

'Is it Elizabethan, or of a later period ? '
demanded Cole.

There she is ! There is my wife ! ' exclaimed

Bernard in reply, as he threw thei
reins to his groom and leaped to the ground.
There was no false shame about the
parson. Although the servants and Nelson
Cole were standing by, he took Phyllida in
his arms and kissed her fondly.

How are you, my darling ? Did you
think I was never coming home again ?
Of course you found my note in the library ?
And here is the friend for whom I told you
to prepare a hearty welcome  my dear old
chum, Nelson Cole.'

New caught from the States, madam, at
your service ! ' said Cole himself, as he advanced
to take her hand. But instead of
offering it to him, she fell against her husband
heavily.

Did you trip against a stone, dearest ?
Are you hurt ? ' he exclaimed, as he felt her
weight. But Phyllida was standing straight
again in a moment  straight, steady, and
almost rigid.

I  am  very  glad  to  see  you,' she

articulated In measured tones, as she stretched
out her hand to Nelson Cole.

Bernard was disappointed. He had
spoken so freely of her warmth and geniality
of manner ! Was this the best welcome
she could extend to his oldest friend ?

You know who this is, don't you, Phyllis
? ' he interposed briskly. ' You have
often heard me speak of Nelson Cole, who
has been out in America for the last \
years. It was such a delightful surprise tome
to get his letter yesterday ; but I told
you all that in my note. You found my
note, of course, darling ? '

Phyllida shook her head. Her lips seemed
glued together ; she could not speak.

You didn't find my note ? Silly child,
where did you look for it.'. 1 put it on the
top of my blotting book. But let us come
in to the fire. It is freezing hard again, and
it strikes me we all want thawing. Come
in, Cole, and welcome a thousand times to
Briarwood ! '

He drew his friend's arm through his own
as he spoke, and led him along the lighted
corridor and into the comfortable library,
believing his wife to be by his side. But
when they turned into the room he found
she had escaped him. To his surprise, and
somewhat to his mortification, his beautiful
Phyllida, whom he was just going to show
off with so much pride to his companion, had
eluded his vigilance and slipped upstairs to
the bedroom.

'Why, where's Mrs Freshfield?' he demanded
of Edwards, who had followed them
in to turn up the lamps.

I think my mistress has gone upstairs,
sir, to remove her walking things,' replied
the servant.

How provoking,' said Bernard, ' I wanted
to Introduce you to her, Cole ; you couldn't
see what she was like in that half hVht 
you would have fraternised over this ruddy
fire.'

Never mind,' said the other cynically,

as he warmed his hands. ' Mrs Freshfield
has been good enough to leave us the fire.
And I shall have the extra pleasure of seeing
her en grande toilette at dinner. Women
are never happy without their war paint ! '

 Phyllida need not have had any scruples
on that score. She looks well in anything,'
replied Bernard, in rather a vexed tone ; but
Nelson Cole began to praise his house and
furniture, and he was soon thinking of
something else. Meanwhile Phyllida, with
a face of the hue of marble and limbs that
felt turned to stone, had dragged her way
up to her own room and locked the door
against intruders. She must have time, she
thought, to breathe, to consider, to plan.
What was best to be done ? Her first idea
was (as Miss Annie Warren had anticipated)
that she would run away ; that she could
not wait there to encounter Nelson Cole
again ; that it would be utterly impossible
for her to go down to the dining-room and
sit opposite to him at table under the full

blaze of the lamps, with his keen searching
eyes fixed upon her face.

As she half-sat, half-leaned upon her bed
in the dusky twilight, with her hands clasping
her head, and a strong shudder of fear
and apprehension pervading her frame, a
sickening scene, which she tried to shut out
in vain, rose before her mental vision,  a
scene of olare and ores  of crashing instruments
and clamorous voices  a sensation
of having done something wrong without
being able to prevent it, and then of failing
limbs and bitter insult, and a sudden
dismissal into the dark frosty night  of
disgrace, humiliation, and ruin !

Who was it that had undergone such
things ? Had any one told her the story
of a poor girl thus tempted and fallen, in
some remote age and clime, and which she
had nearly forgotten until now ?

Phyllida passed her hand wonderingly
over her velvet and sable costume, and
half smiled in a sickly, nervous manner to

think she was so foolish as to Imagine anyone
could believe it possible that such a
girl had any connection with herself.

But then returned the agonising commonplace
thought, that she must go down
to dinner, that there was no escape from that
ordeal, and all the fearful struggle with
self had to be fought over again.

How she wished she could run away till
Mr Cole had left Briarwood, or He In bed
and pretend to be '111 ; but that was nonsense.
She knew that she couldn't runaway
nor lie in bed  it was impossible ;
the deception would be too transparent not
to be seen through at once ; and if suspicion
existed, it would make it stronger.
There was only one thing to be done  she
must stand to her ground and brave it
out!

Yes ; that was her only plan  she must
brave it out. There was still a chance that
Mr Cole might not recognise her. She
must have changed very much since that

time. Every one said her happiness had
improved her looks ; she was stouter and
rosier than in the old days, and her hair
- was not the same colour. The effects of
the golden dye had now completely disappeared,
and she wore it in a different
fashion. If she were only bold and confident,
all would go well.

No one would dare to tell the wife of
Bernard Freshfield that he had seen her 
where ? but this idea  overwhelmed Phyllis.
Love for Bernard, pity for herself,
and shame for the humiliating past swept
like a tempest over her mind, and drove
her beside herself.

Oh ! why did I ever do it ? ' she moaned ;
why did I consent to marry him ? I
tried so hard to make him see me as I am,
but he was blind and deaf to everything
but his love for me. Oh, that noble,
generous love ! Am I doomed to be
more guilty than I have ever been before,
in uprooting and blighting it for the second

time ? Bernard, Bernard ! I wish I had
died before we met ! I wish I may die
now, with the memory of your loving,
trusting face upon my mind, rather than
hive to see it changed to scorn and loathing
! Why  why could I not have found
some way out of the difficulty, except by
pulling him down to share my dishonour ?
Oh, husband, I never loved you so dearly
as I do in this hour of dread that I may
live to part with you ! '

As she thought thus  moaning, weeping,
and rocking herself to and fro upon the
bed, Phyllida was startled by hearing Bernard's
voice outside the doer.

Let me in, my darling ! I want to
speak to you.'

Oh, Berne ! I shall be ready soon,'
she cried, in stifled tones ; ' I am very
busy  cannot you wait till I go downstairs
? '

Be quick, then ; it is nearly dinner time.
But what are you doing, child ? Anne

says she has been waiting to hear your
bell for the last half-hour.'

Making myself beautiful,' replied the girl,
with an hysterical laugh ; ' you know I am
determined to make a conquest of Mr Cole.'
'I don't think you will find much difficulty,
though he is such an old cynic. But
don't keep us waiting, my darling ; I amas
hungry as a hunter.'

He laughed merrily as he turned into
his dressing-room, and she leaped off the
bed and lighted the candles on her toilet
table. Her cheeks were white, her eyes
were red and swollen ; her whole face bore
evident signs of strong emotion. ' This
will never do,' she said with a sort of
desperation to herself; 'this is not the
way to brave it out. My craven looks
would disgrace a whipped school girl.'
Then she plunged her face in cold water,
and used sundry means to restore her
features to their usual appearance, before
she rang the bell for her maid.

VOL. II. o

Put on my prettiest dress to-night,
Anne,' she said, with affected gaiety, as
the servant entered, * for the master wants
me to look my very best.'

*Will you wear the white cashmere, or
the silk, ma'am ? ' demanded Anne.

The cashmere, and the gold fillet
through my hair. Twist it up as tight
as you can, please. I don't like to feel it
falling about my face. There. That will
do ! I am afraid I look rather pale this
evening. The cold weather has set in so
suddenly, I feel chilled  and poor Sarah
Jeffrey's death this afternoon quite upset
me. I know Mr Freshfield will stare at
my eyes ; the frost has made them red 
but I can't help it. Thanks ; that is quite
sufficient, and the sooner I get down to
the fire the better.'

Thus, talking rapidly in order to avoid
her own thoughts, and anxious to rush at
once into the thick of the battle, lest delay
should bring hesitation or cowardice in its

train, Phyllida gathered her creamy skirts
about her, and almost ran down to the
library, expecting without doubt to find her
husband there. But when she had entered
the room, beyond retreat she discovered
Its sole occupant to be Nelson Cole, who,
leaving his warm corner by the fireside,
advanced to meet his hostess. His first
impression of her was certainly a favourable
one. He had done no more than catch
the outline of a graceful fissure in the dusky
afternoon ; but here, beneath the lamplight,
stood a woman whom he decided at once
to be a sufficient excuse for any folly on
the part of Bernard Freshfield. Like some
dainty creature stepped out of an old
picture she stood before him, and as his
glance travelled from the folds of her
soft cllnorlnof dress to the fair face set In Its
framework of chesnut hair and the starry
eyes that beamed with a half-anxious half-frightened
look, Nelson Cole confessed to
himself that he had seldom seen a prettier

woman. Yet in the first blush of their
meeting, something in her features or expression
startled him ; some remembrance
connected with her, returned again and
again to puzzle his brain, and his answers
to her questions betrayed more inattention
than they should have done from a gentleman
visitor to so fair a hostess. Her
manner too struck him with surprise. It
was more than timid or hesitating, it was
positively nervous, and except for her
manner, his eyes might not have been so
constantly attracted to her features.

Oh ! ' she exclaimed with a gasp as she
caught sight of him, ' I thought Bernard
was here ! I am sure he came
down long ago.'

I have not seen him since he went to
dress, Mrs Freshfield,' replied Nelson
Cole, as he scrutinised her closely ; ' but I
daresay he will soon make his appearance.
Will you not take this seat by the fire ? '
 No, thank you, I prefer to sit here,'

o

she said, sinking down on a chair in the
background. * Have you seen my cousin,
Mrs Penfold ? She is here, you know.
My cousin with whom I used to Hve  at
least I lived more with Mrs Pinner than
with Mrs Penfold ; but they're both my
cousins, you know, and they knew my
mother when she was a child.'

Nelson Cole began to think Mrs Bernard
Freshfield must be a little ' cracked.'
What the deuce,' he thought to himself,
does she suppose I care about Pinners
or Tenfold. If this is Bernard's idea of a
companion, Heaven help him!'

But Phyllida, unabashed by his want of
reciprocity, went on rapidly, and in a jerky
manner, 

You have never been here before, have
you ? No, of course not ; but we all
think it very pretty  Bluemere, you know ;
but then we live here, you see, and that
makes a difference. But you don't live in
England, do you ? '

 No ; and I don't wish to do so. I
don't like it,' replied Cole, with his usual
curtness.

Oh, here is cousin Penfold !' cried Phyllis,
as the door opened to admit that lady
and her husband, and Bernard too.

Oh, Berne, where have you been ? I
thought you would have been down ages ago !
It is very cold, isn't it 1 Mr Cole says he
doesn't like England  only fancy! Cousin
Penfold, can't you come nearer the fire ?'

Nelson Cole began to think his friend had
married a great simpleton. But one fact did
not escape his notice. (What did escape it ?)
After her husband's entrance, and when he
had ensconced himself in the chair next her
own, Phyllida sunk into silence. Bernard
occasionally addressed an observation to her,
and Mrs Penfold made one or two commonplace
remarks ; but Phyllida neither spoke
nor moved. She sat in the shadow, dumb
and motionless, only once or twice Cole
thought he could detect her rapid breathing.

Why is that ?' he pondered ; ' she is
evidently not a chatterton by nature.
What made her run on in that absurd
fashion when she found herself alone with
me?'

This speculation made him examine her
more closely when they were seated next
each other at the dinner-table, and he had
the opportunity of doing so without being
obtrusive. Yet his eyes wandered so constantly
her way, with a thoughtful, meditative
look in them, that Bernard observed the
evident attraction Phyllida possessed for his
friend, and began to rally him on it.

When you've quite finished looking at
my wife, Cole,' he said, laughingly, * I want
you to try this Madeira, which competent
judges have pronounced to be of first quality.'

Phyllida reddened like a rose, and Nelson
Cole became apologetic.

I trust I have not been guilty of a rudeness,'
he replied; 'but Mrs Freshfield's face
reminds me so powerfully of one I knew long

ago, that it is difficult for me to refrain looking
at her. The likeness is surprising. It
quite puzzles me.'

I did not think there were two faces like
my wife's in the world,' exclaimed Bernard ;
who was the lady, Cole, and where did you
meet her ?'

Very far from here ; and in a place of
which Mrs Freshfield has probably only
heard the name  the city of Chicago, in
America ! She was  '

But at this juncture Phyllida completely
lost her presence of mind.

It was not me,' she cried excitedly. * How
should it be ? I don't know her ; I never
saw the place ; I have never been out of
England in my life.'

In her hurry and agonising fear, she
completely forgot before whom she was
speaking, and her agitated tones filled her
hearers with surprise. Bernard looked
across the table with open eyes, and Mrs
Penfold commenced a mild remonstrance, 

My dear Phyllida, what are you talking
about? Never been out of Enfant in
your life, my dear, when you were brought
up in the West Indies!'

'Oh yes, the West Indies, of course,'
replied the girl with a scared look ; ' but
I meant I hadn't been in America. Why
should I have been ? What should take
me there ? '

I should have thought from your accent
you were an American,' remarked Mr Cole
drily.

Her father was,' interposed Bernard,
and I fancy she must have caught her
accent from him. But Phyllida is not at all
herself this evening. I am afraid you are
not well, my darling. Have you been
doing too much in my absence . '

She has been at that girl Jeffrey's
death-bed all the afternoon,' said Mrs
Penfold, ' and I think it has tried her
nerves. It's not good for a young person
to be always seeing such sights, Mr Fresh-field,

and I do not think Phyllida is strong
enough for it.'

She is always considering others before
herself,' replied Bernard, smiling at his wife.
But Phyllida did not smile in return. She
sat with her eyes downcast, flushed, palpitating,
and silent. And Nelson Cole's gaze
still continued, every now and then, to
travel her way, and watch each change in
the expression of her countenance. Bernard
Freshfield took the greater part of
the conversation on himself, and talked
fluently on all subjects connected with his
private and professional life. When the
dessert was on the table, and they were
comparatively speaking alone. Nelson Cole
started the subject of drunkenness, and
asked if that vice was prevalent in Blue-mere.


'No, I am thankful to say it is not,'
replied Bernard Freshfield, * for, in my
opinion, it is the most degrading that can
attack mankind ; and I really don't know

how I should cope with it. You can
reason with men on their other fogies,
but a drunkard is neither open to reason
nor amenable to kindness. It is the most
obstinate and the most disheartening weakness
one can be called upon to try and
remedy. Thank heaven, my people are
very little addicted to it ! '

We see an immense deal of it in the
States,' said Cole ; ' in fact, a man who
refuses to "liquor up" on the score of
morality or prudence, is thought very meanly
of, and the youngest lads are ashamed to
refuse to drink ! Even women are not
entirely free from the disgusting habit.'

I suppose it must appear incredible to
you, Mrs Freshfield,' he continued, addressing
himself particularly to Phyllida, ' living
in an atmosphere of purity and virtue,
that a ivoynaii could even lower herself
sufficiently as to become intoxicated ; but
it is not an unfrequent occurrence. I
saw once in Chicago  the very place 1

was speaking to you of  a beautiful girl
younger than yourself (and may I say,
almost as fair) in a state of helpless inebriation
on the public stage, and  '

But at this juncture he was interrupted
by Phyllida rising hastily from her chair.

I am ill,' she gasped, with leaden-coloured
lips. ' Bernard, I cannot stay here any
longer. Let me go to my room,' and
without another glance at her visitor she
staggered to the door, followed by Mrs
Penfold.

See to her ; call me if I am wanted,'
said Bernard anxiously to the latter lady,
as he held the door open for them to pass
out, and then he returned to his seat at the
table with a perturbed countenance, and
pushed the wine across to his friend
moodily.

'Is Mrs Freshfield often attacked like
this ?' demanded Nelson Cole, as he cracked
a walnut.

'No, it is most unusual. I am quite

alarmed lest she should be going to be 111 ;
she is generally so well and active, and so
full of conversation. She is the very light
and life of my home,' said poor Bernard with
a sigh.

Strange that she should relapse so suddenly
remarked Cole. ' I hope it is not
my ugly presence that has brought the
change? '

My dear old chum, how can you speak
so ? We took her rather by surprise this
afternoon ; but Phyllida is as glad to see you
as I am. I can answer for that.'

'Humph!' ejaculated Nelson Cole, and
then after a pause he asked, ' where did you
say you met her ? '

Where did I meet my wife ? In Blue-mere.
She came on a visit to her cousin
Mrs Pinner.'

And where did she come from ? '
St Domingo, I believe. Her family
were residents there before her birth.'
Nelson Cole started.

St Domingo ! I know the place as well
as I do myself; bad cess to it, and I ought
to know her family. How were they
called ? '

Moss. Her mother was married for the
second time to a Mr Moss.'

What was her name before that ? '

I do not know.'

Are you acquainted with the father ? '
No.'

Nor any of the relations ? '

How should I be, when I tell you the''
are all in St Domingo,' replied Bernard
rather testily. ' I know none of them except
her two cousins, and had I known only
herself that would have been enough forme.'


Naturally, my dear boy. Relations are
only a nuisance ; but it is strange I never
heard the name of Moss in St Domingo.
I knew every one there.'

Well, it's evident you didn't know Jmn'
returned Bernard, * and it's of little consequence

either, as both her parents are
dead.'

And Moss was an American, you say ? '
I believe so.'

I expect he was raised up San Francisco
way.'

How can you tell ?'

By Mrs Freshfield's accent. It has the
true Californian ring in it. You can tell
a man's State by the twang of his tongue
in America.'

Ah, / am not so learned,' said Fresh-field,
in a tone of annoyance.

Of course not. It is strange how your
wife reminds me of the face I mentioned,
and the more I look at her, the greater
resemblance I see between them.'

I did not think there were two such
lovely women in the world,' replied the
husband proudly.

'You were right. No more did I. And
Mrs Freshfield's eyes are very remarkable
ones, you will observe, for colour and size

and expression. You seldom meet brown
eyes wide so plalndve a look in diem.'

Like the eyes of a hunted deer, we
have often remarked it,' said Bernard.

I should like to see her and my little
Chicago friend side by side,' continued
Nelson Cole ; ' they might run in a curricle
together.'

/ shouldn't,' laughed the other ; ' one
has been enough to upset my peace of
mind. I don't know what would become
of me between two of them.'

When the gentlemen returned to the
library, Mrs Penfold met them with a request
that Bernard would go upstairs and
wish his wife good-night at once, as she
had been very hysterical, and wished to
take a composing draught. So the husband
left the apartment, and Nelson Cole
found himself tete-astute with the old lady.

 I trust Mrs Freshfield is not really ill,'
he commenced politely.

I hope not, sir, but I really do not

know what is the matter with her. She
appeared almost delirious to me just now
from the rambling way in which she talked.'

She will doubtless feel the cold very
much this winter. I believe she came here
straight from the West Indies.'

'Yes, I believe she did.'

She has not visited America, then ?
I should have thought from her accent she
was fresh from the country.'

I have never heard her mention it, but
then you see, sir, we knew nothing of our
cousin before she came to England last
June, and she has never been very communicative
since. I have heard my sister
say that, from one or tv.'o words Phyllida
dropped, she fancied she had travelled
farther than she cared to tell ; but it was
no business of ours, nor of any particular
interest either. And 1 should think that
a gentleman, newly come from the country
like yourself, would be a better judge than
either of us.'

VOL. II. r

Yes. Were it not that Mrs Freshfield
denies having been in the United States, I
should certainly have said I had met her
there. She has a striking face and figure,
not easily forgotten. I never saw so close
a resemblance between two people in my
life.'

He went to bed, still puzzled and uncertain,
turning over and over in his mind every
reminiscence he retained of that time, yet
unable to satisfy himself entirely on the
subject, until, as he lay pondering over it
all with himself, he suddenly jumped up
and exclaimed aloud, 

I have it ! I know what has caused
this confusion in my mind. She has altered
the colour of her hair. The golden wig has
disappeared, vice a more clerical hue, and
has set all my wits wool-gathering in consequence.
But I am pretty certain now,
and one more link In the chain will settle
my last doubt.'

He went to his despatch box as he spoke,

and drew thence from a secret drawer a
small piece of folded paper.

I will give Mrs Freshfield my little
souvenir to look at,' he said. ' Her husband
affirms that she is very sympathetic. The
sad story of Stephanie Harcourt will be
sure to appeal to her benevolent nature.'

He went back and lay down again on
his bed, but he had no further sleep until
the morning. At breakfast he was told that
Mrs Freshfield had passed a very restless
night, and was not well enough to come
downstairs. He received the intelligence
with perfect stolidity,  indeed he had quite
expected it,  and would not have been surprised
had he been told that her illness had
turned out so dangerous she had been
obliged to go away altogether. Women he
believed to be endowed (in common with
the lower animals) with any amount of instinctive
cunning, in order to avoid danger.
He smiled inwardly when he heard the news,
and concluded that he had seen the last of

Mrs Bernard Freshfield, at all events for
this visit.

But he was mistaken. Phyllida was only
trying to recruit her shaken nerves. She
was shocked and horrified when she remembered
how she had betrayed herself the
evening before, and all her desire now was
to remove the impression she must have
made upon the mind of Nelson Cole. She
promised herself, during those hours of solitude,
that she would really be brave this
time, and hear all her husband's friend might
have to say to her without even changing
countenance. She would listen to his story
of the drunken actress at Chicago, and ask
him what name she went by, and commiserate
her sad fate, and say openly that she
wished she could find her out and be her
friend. She went downstairs at luncheon
time full of these grand resolutions, and she
trembled like an aspen leaf at the first sight
of the man who held her destiny in his
hands. It was some little while before

Nelson Cole could contrive to speak to her
alone, but at last the opportunity occurred.
Bernard was called out to baptise a newborn
child, and particularly begged his wife
not to leave the house during his absence.

It is far too chilly, my love,' he said,
and you will make yourself ill again.
Stay by the fire with Cole and let him see
that I have not overrated my wife's
powers of conversation. I shall not begone
long.'

How little he dreamed what would
happen during that temporary absence !

Phyllida stood where he had left her,
before the fire, with one foot upon the
fender. She was looking into the burning
coals ; but as the hall-door slammed
behind Bernard, she felt that her companion's
eyes were fixed upon her, and
in another moment his voice sounded in
her ear.

Mrs Freshfield, your husband tells me
you have a superabundance of sympathy

for those who suffer! Will you read these
few lines and tell me what you think of
the writer ? '

He placed a paper in her hands as he
spoke, and she unfolded it mechanically,
and gazed at its contents.

What is this ? ' she asked, in an awed
tone.

Cannot you see ? Are you shortsighted
? It is a wedding-ring. It was
given me by the person who wrote the
letter.'

She looked at the worn circle of gold
long and earnestly, and large tears
gathered in her eyes.

Are you reading the letter, Mrs Fresh-field
? Have you no curiosity to see what
it says ? *

No. Apparently she had no curiosity.
Nature was the only thing stirring in her
breast just then, and it broke forth in a
cry of pain as she raised her mother's
wedding-ring to her lips.

Even as they touched it, she felt the
grasp of Nelson Cole's hand upon her
arm.

Stephanie Harcourt he said, in a
stern voice, ' what are you doing here ? '

CHAPTER I.

H YLLIDA gazed into the hard,
determined face of Nelson Cole,
and felt that she had nothing to
expect from him. She had anticipated his
accusation. In the solitude of her chamber
she had imagined that just such a moment
might arise when he would turn round and
call her by her theatrical name, and she
had thought she was fully prepared for the
emergency. She had resolved to be so calm

VOL. III. A

and brave, and to return his look with one
of such complete astonishment as to disarm
his suspicion, and leave him more puzzled
than before. But when the time came, all
her resolutions melted into thin air. It is
difficult to keep a brave front before the
truth. Even murderers, with their lives at
stake, are forced by some inward power into
confession. So, instead of staring her accuser
out of countenance and haughtily demanding
if he meant to insult her, Phyllida
steadied herself with one hand against the
library table, and with white lips faltered, 

You will not betray me ? '

Even Nelson Cole was staggered by this
abrupt surrender. He had been certain of
her identity before he placed the packet
with her mother's wedding-ring in her hand ;
but he had expected to have somewhat of a
fight with her, and to bring her to her knees
only through threats of exposure to the
world. And when she gazed up at him with
tearful, pleading eyes, and made that tremulous

prayer for pity, his task became a very
hard one. He was a stern, cynical man, and
he had a mean opinion of her sex ; but he
was not such a stoic as to be able to destroy
all the hopes of such a very pretty woman
without a pang. He took two or three steps
backward In his surprise.

\x.is yourself, then ? ' he ejaculated ; ' and
you confess It ? Upon my soul I can hardly
believe that It Is true. Although I recognised
you in the first hour we met, I
can scarcely believe that any woman Is capable
of such an act of wickedness as this.
Stephanie Harcourt, are you lost to all
sense of decency, or are you mad ? '

'Oh, Mr Cole,' she cried, trembling,
don't speak to me like this. You were
kind to me once before when I was In great
trouble and distress, and I have never forgotten
it. Don't turn altogether against me
now.'

Kind to you before', he repeated in a tone
of contempt. ' What were you before ?

answer me that. Am I to extend the same
leniency that I showed to a second-rate
actress, discharged for misconduct from the
Chicago stage, to the woman I find Having
at Briarwood as the wife of my friend
Bernard Freshfield. How did you come
here ? What devil sent you to Bluemere ?
And how dared you impose upon his credulity
and trust in you ?'

He would marry me she answered,
weeping. ' I tried  oh, so hard !  to make
him see what a bad thing it would be for
him, and how much beneath him I was in
every way ; but he would not listen to
anything I said. He declared his life's
happiness was bound up In me, and so I
gave myself Into his hands to do as he
thought best with.'

Don't talk rubbishy sentiment to me,'
said Nelson Cole brusquely. ' This is a
matter that is not to be mended with any
humbug of that sort. You know that you
are not his wife  that you cannot be  that

you are the wife of that forger In the New
York Tombs.'

Oh no, no ! ' she cried passionately,
clasping her hands together ; ' indeed I am
not. Cortes died in the Tombs three
months ago. I read the news in the New
York Times ; and I know it is true. And
it made me so happy  so very, very happy.
I began a new life from that day.'

Dead, is he ?  and three months ago.
But what difference does that make to you .
You were married to Freshfield six months
ago.'

I know I was ; but surely, sir, you do
not suspect I was not free to marry him ?
I was divorced from Fernan Cortes before
I left the States. I have the papers in
my possession. I had no difficulty in getting
free from a man who was locked up
for two years for forgery.'

Divorced ! ' said Cole contemptuously ;
pulled through by a Chicago attorney ; and
when Freshfield does not even believe in

the legality of a divorce in his ovv'n country,
why, in his eyes, you are no more his wife
now than you are mine.'

Her brown eyes dilated with horror.

*What's she ejaculated. 'He does not
believe in it ?  he would consider it a farce,
a fraud ? Oh, Mr Cole, you cannot think
I knew that ? It is the first moment I
have ever suspected such a thing. Do you
think I would have dragged him down  he,
who has been so noble, so generous, so
loving, to me  to share such a lot as mine
had I not fully believed the past was
done with for ever ? Bernard not think
me free ?  still consider me chained to that
dreadful man, and whilst his kisses were
on my lips ? Oh, my God, how I have
been deceived ! '

'/ should rather say, how poor Fresh-field
has been deceived ! ' replied her companion.
' I am afraid to think what he will
do when he hears that you have never been
his wife.'

Oh, don't say that ! ' exclaimed the girl
in a voice of pain ; 'don't think it. If you
only knew all the love that has passed between
us  the confidence we have exchanged
 the delight we have had in each
other's society  the thanks we have given
to God for our happiness  you would not
say we are not married. What is marriage
but an union of hearts and souls  a mutual
devotion  a tie that no misfortune nor
trouble can unloose ? And this is what
Bernard and I feel for each other. Believe
me, sir, we are true husband and
wife. It would kill me to think we could
ever be otherwise.'

And do you suppose I can let matters
go on in this way, then ?' he asked roughly.

What do you mean ? '

I mean that I came here to find that
you have deceived my best friend ; that you
are still deceiving him ; that he has not the
slightest knowledge of your antecedents nor
your condition, and that if I leave him in

the same deplorable ignorance, I shall prove
myself to be his worst enemy.'

You will not tell him ? ' she screamed ;
you will not tell him of Cortes or my
having been on the stage ? Oh, Mr Cole,
remember he is dead  he can never rise
up to bear witness against me now ; and I
ann Bernard's wife ; indeed, indeed I am ! '

Stephanie Harcourt, if I acceded to your
request, I should become particeps criminis,
and I will not do it. Bernard Fresh-field
must learn the truth  if not from your
lips, from mine.'

Oh, I cannot, I casino tell him,' she
moaned ; ' he has loved me so. You do not
know how he has loved me.'

I know that if he has the noble nature
with which I credit him, that he will pretty
soon u7Ao\ you when he hears how he
ha been deceived. To think of your assurance
in coming to a place like this, and
taking your stand amongst respectable
people, and finishing off by marrying a

parson, beats me altogether. I have always
known that your sex possess the
daring insolence of the devil ; that you will
trample on proprieties, and carry your
creatures with a high hand, such as men
would shrink from assuming ; but I think
your case is worse than any I have ever
heard of.'

As he concluded he advanced suddenly,
and grasped her again by the arm.

'In the name of evil !' he exclaimed,
what made you leave America ? '

She did not resent his rudeness. She
only deprecated it by falling at his feet.

Oh, sir,' she cried, weeping bitterly,
you felt for me once before ; show a little
mercy to me now. I came to England
with the money you sent me.'

(' D  n my folly!' he interposed loudly.)

I came, only desirous to find honest
work, by which to earn my living ; but my
cousin. Pinner, invited me take a month's
rest at Bluemere first, and here it was I

met him. Oh, sir, you do not know, you
cannot tell, the temptation It was to me tolet
him love me. No starvlnof creature with
rich food In sight was ever more sorely
tempted to steal what was not his to take.
But I tried  indeed I did  to prevent his
lowering himself by marrying me. I even
asked him to take me as I was instead  a
lot like that, with such a man as he Is,
would have been too good for me. But
you know his noble nature. He would do
nothlnor less than what was nVht in his
own eyes, and so he married me ; and I
thought  I thought  I hoped,' she went on
sobbing, ' until you came, that, by reason of
his love and goodness, I might live to become,
some day, not all unworthy of him.
Oh, sir, you were my good angel once, and
took me away from all that was degrading
me, and gave me fresh hopes of life. Don't
undo your work now. Don't drag me again
from the heaven you helped me to attain,
back to the misery from which you lifted me.'

Nelson Cole was moved by her appeal.
He felt himself uncomfortably moist about
the eyes, and there vas a husky sensation
in his throat, which made it difficult for him
to answer her. Yet his mind never wavered
from the idea that it had formed of duty.
He loved and respected Bernard Freshfield
more than he cared to acknowledge even to
himself, and he felt that he could not leave
him the dupe of a woman, whose antecedents
rendered her quite unfit to fill the high position
he had placed her in.

So, although he felt very much for Phyllis
 more even than he had done for the
trembling and shame-stricken girl whom he
had visited and succoured in Chicago  he
was firm in his resolution that Bernard
Freshfield must learn the truth respecting
her.

You ask me an impossibility,' he replied.
I am very sorry for the disgrace you have
brought upon yourself ; but you should have
told Freshfield everything from the beginning.

What right had you to conceal the
events of your former life from him ? '

I know I should have done so. I have
suffered for it greatly,' she sobbed, still
kneeling at his feet ; ' but I thought there
Alas no chance of its ever being raked up
again. I hoped it was buried and done
with. I believed that that miserable episode
need never be any more to me than a half-forgotten
nightmare.'

You thought, in fact, that neither I nor
Miss Vavasour, nor any of your Chicago
friends, would ever show their faces in the
mother country ! That was not very astute
of you, Miss Harcourt. But supposing it
had been the case, I think Mr Jack Neville
can tell a few stories about a life even prior
to the one you were leading when we met !
I conclude you have not quite forgotten that
scoundrel Sandie Macpherson, and the Sacramento
Valley business, eh ? '

She rose to her feet then, and confronted
him with a face in which there

J

was no visible feeling but that of indignant
scorn.

I have forgotten nothing  nothing' she
articulated ; ' and above all that, every
trouble I have encountered in this life 
every sin I have committed  has been at
the instigation or command of your sex.
And you, too, are determined to hunt me
down ! I read it in your eye and the tones
of your voice. Let it be so, then. I will
make no further appeal to your pity or your
generosity. Bernard Freshfield shall know
the worst that you can tell him.'

You will not break the news to him
yourself, then ? It will be the better for
you, perhaps. You women have a thousand
little wheedling ways, remember, by which
you can induce a man to believe anything
you choose, and to forgive everything, even
against his calmer judgment ! If you will
tell the man you call your husband the truth
with your own lips, you will probably be able
to persuade him to marry you over again.'

You have refused me your sympathy,
Mr Cole ; you might spare me your sarcasm
! I am only a woman, you know, and
cannot be expected to cope with it. And
I would rather that you conveyed the intelligence
you speak of to your friend. I
don't think it  it  will make him happier,
and there is no need that I should add
more than my necessary share to  his disappointment.'


As Phyllida pronounced, with some
difficulty, the last word, she turned from
him, and with drooping figure and bowed
head, left the room. Nelson Cole looked
after her uneasily.

D  n it all ! ' he thought. ' What am I
to do ? I'd give a thousand dollars not
to have seen her at all ; but having seen
her, I cannot reconcile it to my conscience
to leave that poor boy in ignorance of her
identity ! Why, I should be aiding and
abetting one of the greatest deceptions I
ever heard of. And a parson's wife, too !

It beats everything that ever happened
to me before. But / can't do the job.
I must wait a few days and persuade the
child to do the right thing herself  she
will see on reflection that it is right, and
will do it from love to him  and then
they must slip away quietly somewhere,
and be married over again to satisfy his
scruples. Hang it all ! she is a lovely
creature, and I don't wonder at the boy
going mad over her. And she's got
some good in her too, poor little soul !
and after all she is but a woman ! Well,
well, it's a most unfortunate business,
and I wish I could guess how Bernard
will take it. But at all risks it must be
done.'

And so musing. Nelson Cole, half sorry
for Bernard and half sorry for Phyllida,
but quite believing that however great a
tempest his interference might provoke,
the weather would settle down and be
fair again after a while, walked round to

the stables, and mounting a horse which
Freshfield had ordered to be kept for his
use, rode off, wondering how the poor
Httle girl was bearing it all, and by what
argument he could best induce her to tell
her husband the entire truth. And the
poor little girl ' meanwhile, stunned by
the calamity that had overtaken her, was
walking up and down her own room and
resolving more determinately with every
step, that she would die rather than tell
it. The events of the last six months,
during which she had gradually been
learning to believe herself to be prosperous,
respectable, and beloved, seemed to have
slidden past her like a dissolving view,
and she was once more the disgraced and
unprotected actress of Chicago, who had
broken down in the song of the evening,
and been ignominiously expelled. She
shrank even from her own scrutiny, as infancy
she travelled back to that scene of
humiliation, and felt as if all Bluemere

had been witnesses of It, and she heard their
voices reviling her for having dared to
polite their thresholds with her presence.
She was no longer Mrs Freshfield of
Briarwood  that dignity had been stripped
from her like a stolen garment  she was
Stephanie Harcourt, the burlesque actress,
and the widow of a criminal who had died
in the Chicago gaol. And she, who was
all this and more, had pretended to be the
wife of a good and pure and true-hearted
man, who had believed in her and trusted
her, and endowed her with all his worldly
goods, and given her his mother and his
sister to be her's also.

Tell Bernard ! Go and look Into Bernard's
faithful eyes, and tell him she had
never been his wife !  that she had seduced
him into the commission of a crime that
must be abhorrent to his feelings ; listen
to his reproaches ; hear his exclamations of
surprise and horror ; see his looks of pain !
VOL. in. B

No, no, she could not do it ! she would
die first ; she would throw herself into the
mere, as she had felt prophetically before
all this misery came to pass, that it would
have been best to do.

And neither could she stay whilst Nelson
Cole repeated the story of her disgrace 
that would be almost worse than telling it
herself, like standing In the next room with
bated breath whilst some dreadful operation
was being performed upon one's dearest
friend, unable to help or comfort, because-one
had not the courage to look upon his
inevitable pain. Phyllida told herself Incoherently
that she could neither use the
knife nor see it used. She felt much the
same as Charles the First must have felt
when Lord Strafford went to his death,
guilty to the last degree of the suffering
about to be Inflicted, but powerless to avert
It, and too great a coward to see it put In
execution.

Nelson Cole did not return to Briar wood

till close upon the dinner hour. It was a
raw, foggy afternoon, and riding in the dusk
was not exhilarating exercise, yet he preferred
it to the chance of encountering



Phyllida without the presence of Fresh-field,
and being subjected perhaps to another
series of piteous appeals for mercy. He
had only time to run up to his bedchamber
and change his spattered riding suit
before the second dinner-gong sounded, and
he descended to the hall, where he met
Bernard in evident perturbation.

My dear Cole, I am so annoyed. Fancy,
my wife has actually gone out, after all my
cautions to her, and in this wretched fog.
It is really too bad of my people. She is
so good to them they think she is at their
beck and call. I suppose some old woman
sent up a request for her presence, and
the dear child rushed off at once. But
I must put a stop to it. I wont have
her health sacrificed for the sake of the
parish.'

Nelson Cole looked grave, but all he
answered was, 

'It is, indeed, a foggy afternoon. I could
hardly see an inch before me as I rode
home, and more than once I thought I had
lost my way.'

Imagine Phyllida being exposed to it,'
continued Bernard, in a voice of injury, as
they entered the dining-room together. ' I
do think, Mrs Penfold, you might have
prevented your cousin leaving the house
in such weather.'

Indeed, Mr Freshfield, I am not to
blame. I have been in my own room
ever since luncheon, and have not even set
eyes on Phyllida. I thought she was in
the library with Mr Cole, where I believe
you left her.'

To be sure I did. What did she say
to you about it, Cole ? Have you no
notion where she has gone ? '

Not the slightest, my dear fellow. Mrs
Freshfield and I talked together for perhaps

half-an-hour after you left us, and
then she went up (I imagined) to her
own room. It was not until I found she
had no intention of returning, that I decided
to take a ride. She did not honour
me with any confidences as to her plans
for the afternoon.'

'Well, it is useless saying any more
about it,' replied Bernard, with evident
annoyance. ' So let us think of our dinner.
She is sure to be back before long'*

But the meal that followed was a very
silent one. Bernard was fretting at his
wife's absence. Nelson Cole, knowing what
was in store for his friend, was naturally
grave and thoughtful, and Mrs Penfold
could hardly be very lively all by herself.
So as soon as the dessert appeared, she
rose from table and left the two gentlemen
to entertain each other. Bernard sat silent
for a few moments, then, striking his hand
upon the table, 

I will stop all my wife's visiting and

nursing in the parish from this evening
he said angrily. ' I knew what it would
be if she once began such work. Women
can never do things by halves. She will
end by sacrificing me and her friends, for
her fancied obligations to the poor. She
doesn't go into a single cottage after tonight.
I don't care for this sort of thing,
and I wont stand it.'

Hullo, my boy!' exclaimed Cole, * aren't
you coming it rather strong ? Mrs Fresh-field
may entertain a different opinion from
yours. Women, as you justly say, seldom
do things by halves, even to having their
own way.'

Phyllida is not like the rest of her
sex,' replied Bernard ; ' she is a child for
docility and innocence.'

Are you so sure of that, Freshfield ?
You always speak of your wife as if she
had not an idea of her own ; as if she
had never lived a life apart from yours ;
as if, in fact, she were a nonentity. Now

I don't think she Is. On the contrary, I
find that she has double the amount of
experience of most females of her age.'

Has she been confiding to you the
history of her former life, then ? ' inquired
Bernard jealously, knowing that no such
confidence had ever been reposed in him.
We have been speaking of it certainly,
and I was surprised to find how far Mrs
Freshfield has travelled and how much she
has seen. I told her that she must tell
the same story to you, and she promised
me that she would.'

It seems strange that my wife should
tell you, a perfect stranger, of Incidents
that she has not considered it worth while
to mention to myself. Are you sure she
was not "chaffing" you ? Phylllda Is rather
Inclined to be mischievous when she finds
a good subject to practise on.'

'No, I don't think It was "chaff,"
Bernard. I believe It was sober earnest.
Neither does Mrs Freshfield regard me asa

perfect stranger. We came to the conclusion
this afternoon that we knew a good
deal about each other  in fact, we are not
quite sure that we have not met before.'

Well, it's all high Dutch to me,' said
Bernard pettishly, as he pushed back his
chair from the table, and gazed thoughtfully
into the fire. He did not relish the
idea that his wife  who was so reticent
with himself respecting everything in the
past  should have been confidential with
another man, and became more impatient
than ever for Phyllida's return, that he
might elucidate the seeming mystery. Nelson
Cole, on the other hand, had made his
remarks with the best intentions, hoping by
them in some measure to prepare the
husband's mind for the unhappy news that
should greet him when he met his wife
again. For he had little doubt in his own
mind that Phyllida's absence was due not
to her active benevolence, so much as the
perturbed state of her mind, and pictured

to himself the unfortunate girl wandering
about the plantations or shrubberies in that
dense fog, vainly striving to reconcile herself
to the inevitable, until he wished he
had bitten out his tongue before he had
said the words that had driven her from
her home. They waited for two or three
hours after dinner in vain expectation of
her return, and then Bernard, having questioned
all the servants, came into his friend's
presence with a face the colour of chalk,
and announced his intention of searching
for his wife in the village.

I am getting so alarmed, Cole,' he articulated
with chattering teeth, ' I hardly
know what to do ; but to remain at home
is impossible. Not a soul in the house
saw Phyllida go out, which is very extraordinary,
for the messages from the village
always reach her through Mrs Garnett the
housekeeper. I have ordered my horse,
therefore, and am going to ride over to my
mother's. If she is not there or at Mrs

Pinner's, I shall search for her In Bluemere,
for I cannot allow her to remain out on
such a night as this. Will you excuse my
leaving you, old fellow ? You must know
the state of anxiety I am in.'

Can't I help you, Freshfield ? Let me
have another horse and ride over to Brick
Common. It lies at some distance from
Bluemere, does it not ? '

Oh, she never could have been so mad
as to go out to the Common on foot, Cole.
It is a long way from this, and I doubt if
she could walk it. Besides, it is dangerous
ground down by the mere, and I would not
allow you to traverse it without company.
She must be at Blue Mount, though what
has taken her there is beyond my comprehension.'


His horse came round as he spoke, and
Cole watched him ride off through the fog
with a heavy heart. A sudden fear lest
the unhappy girl had attempted her own life
in the mere had darted through him, and he

felt that In such a case he should hold himself
guilty of her death. He turned back
into the house with a very grave face, and
his spirits were not lightened by Mrs
Penfold's melancholy forebodings.

Do you think It possible anything can
have happened to poor, dear Phyllida, Mr
Cole ? ' she whimpered. ' She has been so
strange and unlike herself, both yesterday
and to-day, that I quite fear the worst. I
told you how she rambled last evening, and
though I gave her a sleeping draught she
talked all night of the most extraordinary
things. And now to run away In this unaccountable
manner, and without saying a
word to anybody. It is really very unusual ;
and If anything happens to her, poor, dear
thing, in consequence, I am sure I shall
never get over It.'

What do you expect to happen to her
returned Cole, in his gruff way, ' unless It is
an attack of bronchitis or influenza ? Thirty
I should imagine, to be a very likely result

of such an act of imprudence on Mrs Fresh-field's
part, and the best thing you can do,
Mrs Penfold, is to see that everything is
prepared ready for your cousin to take a hot
bath as soon as ever she returns home.'

Oh, you are quite right, my dear sir ;
thank you so much for the suggestion,' re-pied
Mrs Penfold. ' I will go and see toit
at once. Of course a hot bath, and just
the least drop of brandy and water to take
inwardly, that will be the very thing for
dear Phyllida, to prevent the injurious effects
of the fog.'

She left him to himself as she concluded,
and Cole was thankful to be so left,
for his anxiety was fast changing into
apprehension. He did not employ himself,
but sat there eagerly listening for the
sound of the horse's hoofs which should brings
back with news of her. They came
at last, and as he entered the hall Cole went
out to meet him.

Well, my boy, and where is she . '

I can't find her,' replied Freshfield
moodily, as he stalked into the library ; * I
have inquired at every house in Bluemere,
but they have seen nothing of her. She
7nust have one to Brick Common. But
it is too bad, too hard of her,' he continued,
leaning his head in his hands ; ' she knows
how dear and precious she is to me, and
might have guessed the alarm I should
feel on her account. Besides, I asked her
not to leave the house ; you heard me,
Gone ? I asked her as plainly as I could
speak not to venture out in this detestable
fog.'

I know you did, but I suppose Mrs
Freshfield imagined it was her duty to go.
Any way, my dear boy, it can't be helped
now, and you must make the best of it. If
your wife is at Brick Common, she will be
safe enough till the morning, and you had
better go to bed and forget this worry in
sleep.'

She must be at Brick Common,' repeated

Bernard, * there Is no other place
for her to be at ; and she will be safe
enough until the morning, as you say.
And yet I don't think I can sleep, Cole,
not being certain where she is, and I'd
rather sit up In the library until I can
start off to look for her again.'

Then I shall sit up with you,' said
Nelson Cole, and the household being dismissed
to their beds, and the horses ordered
for seven o'clock the following morning, the
friends ensconced themselves In two armchairs
opposite each other, and prepared
to hold a vigil until dawn.

Bernard Freshened was
naturally very downcast and disinclined
to talk ; but Nelson
Cole told him so many stories of the
vigorous life in the New World, that he
became deeply interested, and the hours
passed more quickly than either had
anticipated.

'That is the sort of life that would suit
me,' exclaimed Bernard, after Cole had
been giving him an account of the gold
digging in the Sacramento Valley, and
described the lawless set of ruffians by
which it was conducted. ' I should enjoy

above all things the freedom and the
freshness of such an existence, and I may
add, of such a congregation. To do good
to such a population would be a real
triumph to the worker. The truths of
the gospel, where they did take root, would
fall with such tremendous power on the
newly-turned surface of their minds. Such
different work from irindincr the same
tune, day after day and year after year,
to children so accustomed to the piping,
that they refuse to listen, and far less to
dance. Cole, I should like to be a missionary
in Sacramento Valleys

you may think, Freshfield, but I
fancy you would alter your mind when
you had made a trial of it. The specimens
/ have met from Sacramento have not
been promising subjects for conversion, I
can tell you  murderers, gamblers, ruffians,
thieves. There is no description of vice
that does not take ready root in that congenial
soil  a gold-digging encampment.

I have reason to say so, believe me. Some
day I may tell you why.'

Bernard was about to answer, when the
wire of the house-bell grated as though the
handle had been ineffectually pulled. It
was now nearly six o'clock in the morning,
and the sickly, dirty looking dawn, which
succeeds a winter's night, was trying to
struoorle through the holes in the shutters.

'Hark! What was that?' said Cole, as
they started simultaneously to their feet.
A second passed and again the wire grated
audibly, whilst the faintest of tinkles sounded
from the bell.

It is Phyllida,' cried Bernard, as he rushed
into the hall, followed by his friend, and
began hurriedly to undo the fastenings of the
door. But when he threw it open there was
no Phyllida upon the steps, only the figure
of a little lad, not more that eight or ten
years old, whose teeth chattered with the
cold.

'Who are you, and wdiat do you want?'

VOL. III. c

exclaimed Freshfield, as he caught sight of
him.

If you please, sir, I've fringed the letter,
and the teddy said as how you'd give me a
shilling' for bringing' of it, so I didn't wait
longer than I was 'obliged to, cos the teddy
says the sooner ye get it the better, so
mother felled me to run over as soon as
'twas light.'

He fumbled In his dirty pocket as he
spoke, and produced a crumpled envelope.

Where is the lady ? ' exclaimed Bernard
impatiently, as he seized the epistle. ' Where
do you come from ? '

I don't know where she be now ; she
was a going' off in the railway ; but / come
from Westertown. '

Westertown ! ' cried Bernard, staggering
backward.

Come, Freshfield,' said Cole, ' go to the
library and read your letter, whilst I settle
with the lad. I suppose one can scarcely
send him all the way back again without

something to eat, so here's your shilling,
my boy, and you can go down to the
kitchen and sit there till the servants are
about. It wont be long now before they're
stirrings.'

It took him a minute or two to usher the
shivering little wretch to the kitchen premises,
and when he reached the library
again he unbarred and threw back the
shutters in order to give his friend still
further time to overcome whatever shock
might be contained for him in that letter.
But when, at last, he turned to look at
Bernard, he was startled at his appearance.
The young man was standing by
the table, white, rigid and immoveable, as
if he had been turned to stone, with his
eyes fixed upon the paper spread open
before him.

Why, Freshfield, old fellow, what's the
matter now ? ' said Cole cheerfully.

What does this mean ? ' demanded the
other in a hollow tone.

What does what mean ? '

This letter  her letter. Read what she
says to me.'

Nelson Cole took up the paper, and read
the following words : 

Bernard,  By the time this reaches you,
your friend will have told you all he
knows about me ; and you will have
learned how much you have been deceived.
But oh, my darling, don't fret
about it ; I will never disgrace you mores
am going away where you will never
hear of me. Only try to forget everything
about me, excepting that I loved
you very dearly, and had not strength
to do what I ouoht to have done. But
indeed, indeed, I believed myself to be
your wife. Phylltda.'

What does it mea7i f ' again demanded
Bernard Freshfield, as Cole came
to the end of the letter.

It means, my poor boy, that at last she
speaks the truth.'

The truth !  that paper ! Take care what
you are saying, Cole ; the truth that she
disgraced me  that she only believed herself
to be my wife. Why, I married herby
special licence at Gatehead. She must
be mad ; you are all mad to imagine such
a thing.'

Bernard,' said Nelson Cole steadily, ashe
laid his hand on that of his friend,
there is a great blow in store for you.
Bear it like a man.'

Who says I shall not ? Because I ama
parson, do you suppose I am not a man
as good a man as yourself . But she
says you know all about her. What can
you know that she has not told to nne
her husband ? '

Unfortunately, a great deal. I wish it
were not so. I knew her in Chicago, long
before she came to England. I knew
her there upon the stage, as a burlesque

actress, and not as a very prudently behaved
actress. The first time I met her,
Bernard, was under very distressing circumstances
; she had just been dismissed
from her employment for  for  in fact for
intoxication.'

He glanced at the husband's face as he
spoke. It looked as though carved in
marble. Only the eyes glared like two
balls of fire, and the dry lips muttered
harshly the words ' Go 07iJ

Why she came to England after that
I do not know ; but she had no right to
have married you, Bernard, without telling
you the truth. She was a married woman,
who had obtained a divorce from her husband,
and six months ago he was alive in
the New York gaol'

'Ifs a lie r cried the figure by the table ;
and Bernard Freshfield made a sudden lunge
forward, as though he would have struck his
friend. The next moment, however, he had
fallen backward, striking his head against

the steel fender, and lay on the hearth-rug,
silent and immoveable, with the blood oozing
from a cut on the forehead.

Nelson Cole ran upstairs for a sponge and
cold water, and having secured the door
against possible intruders, knelt down beside
the poor young husband, and administered
to him as tenderly as if he himself had been
a woman. So that in a few minutes Bernard
Freshfield, ghastly pale and shivering,
as though he had an ague, staggered to
his feet again, and sank down in an armchair.


There, dear boy, you are better now,'
said Nelson Cole compassionately; 'it's an
ugly truth to swallow, Bernard, and no one
knows it better than myself; but you must
learn to look it in the face, old fellow, and
it will be none the easier for turning your
head the other way.'

It cannot be true !' murmured Fresh-field.


'It is true, my son ! Unhappily there is

not a doubt upon the subject. A year ago,
Phyllida Moss was an actress on the Chicago
stage, under the name of Stephanie Harcourt,
and the wife of a notorious forger and criminal,
called Fernan Cortes, then undergoing
his sentence in the Tombs at New York.
She tells me that she procured a divorce
from Cortes before she left Chicago, and that
he died in the Tombs three months ago ; but
I am afraid that will not be much consolation
to you. A divorce may be obtained in Chicago
for the most trivial reason, and in the.
most irregular fashion. Couples divorce each
other there for incompatibility of temper, or,
as you see, on account of the husband being
arrested, and the evidence of one party only
is necessary to the decree. You must perceive,
therefore, what an irregular proceeding
it must be. When you met Stephanie
Harcourt, she was, according to your own
ideas on the subject, still the wife of Cortes,
and without power to contract another
alliance.'

It cannot be true,' repeated Bernard, ina
confused manner ; * you must be mistaken.
You are thinking of some one else.'

Can't you believe the evidence of her
own letter, Freshfield ? She only discovered
that I had recognised her for certain yesterday
afternoon, and her first act is to leave
her home. Does not that prove to you that
my statement must be correct ? '

You frightened her, perhaps,' replied
Bernard. ' She is not strong, and she
saw no way of coping with your testimony.
I cannot accept a statement that
destroys my life, on the evidence of one
witness alone.'

Will you accept it on the evidence of
two ? ' rejoined Cole. ' Jack Neville, who
travelled with me from New York, is staying
in London. Will you hear what he has
to say on the subject ? '

Who is Jack Neville ?' asked Bernard ina
low voice.

'He is a fellow who has been implicated

in dozens of scrapes, and burned his fingers
more than once ; but a stewing good fellow
for all that, and one whose word you may
trust to the uttermost. I only knew
Stephanie Harcourt in Chicago ; but he
knew her In San Francisco, long before
she went upon the stage. Will you come
up to town with me and interview Jack
with respect to her ? '

How are we to be sure that he will
mean my  my  I would say, how can
we be certain his description applies to
Phyllida '. Two women may singularly
resemble each other.'

True. Take up her photograph, then,
and show it to Jack yourself. I see you
have a very beautiful coloured portrait of
her in the drawing-room, taken in white
satin and pearls. She is hardly likely to
have worn white satin and pearls in Sacramento
Valley. I think if you show that to
Neville, and he recognises it, notwithstanding
its surroundings, to be the same woman

he knew in 'Frisco, you may be satisfied also
as to its identity with Stephanie Harcourt.'

Bernard did not reply, but moved unsteadily
towards the door.

Where are you going, dear boy ? ' asked
Cole.

To London  didn't you say so ?  to see
this Jack Neville.'

But you won't start without your breakfast
surely ? You can't do it, Bernard.
You will drop before you reach Wester-town.
You don't know what a scarecrow
you look.'

Do you suppose I can eat or drink till
I have satisfied my mind upon this subject?
Oh, Cole, I am in hell  a raging, burning,
intolerable hell ! For God's sake, let me
do something, be it only to walk along the
road to Westertown, or I shall destroy
myself  or you ! '

We will start as soon as it is possible to
put the horses into the carriage,' replied
Cole soothingly. ' I am ready to go with

you, Bernard, to the end of the world, only
you don't want all the servants and that old
woman, Mrs Penfold, to guess your business
before it is concluded, do you, old fellow ?
You wouldn't like to think they were running
open-mouthed about the village retailing
it to each boor they met, and making it
out worse than it need be,  eh ? '

The instinctive horror of men, and especially
Englishmen, to have their private
affairs discussed by a party of busybodies
had the desired effect, and Bernard Freshen
sank back in his chair hopeless, but
resigned to follow his friend's advice.

Let me have brandy,' he articulated
faintly, ' and leave me alone. Don't let any
prying fool come in here, Cole, for pity's
sake ! and make all the necessary arrangements
 there's a food fellow ; and tell 
tell them what story you like  only let us
be off as soon as possible ; for this suspense
is killing me.'

It was a difficult task which Bernard had

delegated to him ; but Nelson Cole accomplished
it as diplomatically as was possible.
He told the servants that Mrs Freshfield
had received an urgent summons to the
death-bed of a friend, and that their master
was starting at once to join her. He saw
that they were not taken in by the deception,
but it left them, at least, nothing but
conjecture to feed upon.

With Mrs Penfold he was compelled to
be more explicit. She would naturally have
demanded to hear the names of people and
places  perhaps even have insisted on sharing
the search they were about to make
for her cousin ; therefore he confided to
her the fact that Phyllida's departure was
wrapt in mystery, and that, for her sister's
sake and her own, It would be prudent to
adopt the fable he had invented for the
benefit of the servants' hall.

But even as he advised her, he had little
hope of her adhering to his counsel. The
pld lady's face twitched . with curiosity and

the delight of a mystery ; and he felt that
as soon as their backs were turned, her
tongue would itch until she had confided
it to some one else.

Yet, after all, he thought to himself,
what did it matter ? There was no doubt
in his own mind as to the identity of Phyllis
Moss ; and all the world of Bluemere
must know her story before long. It was
for Bernard alone that his heart bled.
The women might fioht it out between
themselves ; he thought only of his ' monks
boy"* and how best to shield him
from the scandal and trouble that had
come down upon him.

As soon as the hour arrived, he got him
as quickly into the carriage as he could, and
drove him with his own hands to Wester-town
; thence to London, and to the rooms
in the Strand temporarily occupied by Mr
Jack Neville, was, comparatively speaking,
easy work. For many broken hearts and
blasted hopes go travelling about the world,

and pursuing their usual avocations, as
though nothing were the matter with them,
to render the presence of one silent and
abstracted man In a railway carriage any
matter for curiosity to the rest of the passengers.


They found Mr Jack at home, doing the
dolce far niente after a night of debauch 
careless, handsome, and insoitciant, as if he
were still in San Francisco  and lying on
two chairs with a pipe in his mouth.

Wake up, Jack, my boy ! ' was Cole's first
salutation to him. ' My friend here, Bernard
Freshfield, and I have come up to
town on an unpleasant business, and we
want your assistance.'

*What is it?' cried Jack, suddenly becoming
animated ; ' disagreeable, eh ? sorry
to hear it. Is it a robbery, or a forgery, oran
arrest 1 Any way, I'm at your service.'

I knew that before you said it, old chap.
It's something worse than all three put together,
Jack. It's a woman ! '

Jack whistled, but made no further remark,
except asking them if they had
lunched, or if they wouldn't sit down.

Well, we can talk as well sitting as
standing,' replied Cole, taking a chair ; ' but
my friend, here, is rather anxious to see
this business concluded, and so, to tell
the truth, am I. And now, Freshfield, I
think you'd better open fire by producing
that photograph. I wish Jack to take it
from your hands rather than mine.'

Bernard, with a face that had assumed
a stern rather than a sad expression, now
that he was under the scrutiny of a stranger,
produced a parcel which he was carrying,
and which, being untied, revealed an exquisitely
painted photograph of the woman
he had called his wife. He placed it in
silence before Neville.

'Tell us who that is. Jack '. ' said Nelson
Cole.

Jack looked at the portrait a moment,
then clapped his hand upon his thigh.

By George ! it's herself ! ' he exclaimed.
How did you get this ? Where was it
taken ? I wish I had a. cool thou, laid
on the chances of my picking out her face
from that of any other woman in the world.
She was always a little stunner ; and, by
Jove ! how handsome she's grown, and what
a swell she looks ! Rather different from
her appearance after that last night in
Chicago  eh, Cole ? '

Don't talk rubbish,' cried the other, impatiently.
' I asked you to tell me whose
portrait it is.'

'Get out!' returned Jack; 'you know
as well as I do. It's little Nessie Macpherson,
of Sacramento Valley.'

That  that isn't the name you mentioned,'
said Bernard hurriedly, to Nelson
Cole.

No, it isn't ; but it will lead to it.
Tell us where you met Nessie, Jack, and
where she went to, and all you may
know about her ; not for i7iy satisfaction,

VOL. III. D

you understand, but for that of my
friend.'

Oh, certainly, with the greatest pleasure
! ' replied Jack, pushing the portrait
away from him. ' Only look here !  she
hasn't got into a scrape, has she ? You're
not going to ask me to peach upon a
woman ? '

Don't be afraid of that. She has got
into a scrape (or rather she's got my
friend into one) ; but it's nothing in which
the truth can hurt her. So fire away, Jacks
be quick about it'

The three men drew their chairs together,
Bernard sitting between the others,
like the ghost of Banquo at the feast of
Macbeth.

I met Nessie first in San Francisco,'
commenced Neville. * I tried my luck at
the gold diggings there, and her father,
Macpherson, who is one of the greatest
rascals living '  (' The very greatest, d  n
him ! ' interposed Cole)  ' kept a sort of

public house there, which was, in point
of fact, a gambling hell, and Nessie used
to serve at the bar. I think I noticed
her more because she was so young  only
sixteen  to place in such a position than
because she was so pretty. And Sandie
Macpherson ill-treated her into the bargain.
There wasn't a digger in the Valley that
didn't feel for the child.'

Freshfield groaned, but he said nothing.

Go on ; cut it short,' was the practical
remark of Cole.

I got into a scrape up there after a while
one of my numerous awkward jobs, you
know. Cole  and had to run down South
till the breeze had blown over. There was
a nasty fellow there at the time, called
Fernan Cortes, whom none of us liked,
and he was implicated in the affair ; in fact,
/ had had to bear the brunt of his knavery.
Naturally, the first thing I did on my return
was to look up my friend to have it
out with him, but I found he had muzzled





from Sacramento Valley, and taken Nestle
Macpherson with him. The father declared
she was an obstinate hussy, and
would marry Cortes ; but I heard a very
different story from the diggers. They told
me there had been a fight up at Macpherson's
one day with a stranger, who declared
he had been cheated at the tables, and that
Sandie had held him down whilst Cortes
knives him, and Nessie had been witness
to the affair, and threatened to expose it.
So then her father forced her to marry histories
 they can do anything they choose
with a rough disorderly band like that 
and packed her off with him, lest she should
turn witness against them. I'm not sure if
that's the real truth of the matter. I only
tell it you as it was told to me.'

But where did you meet Nessie next,
Jack ? That's the most important thing.'

Why, in Chicago, where she was acting
on the stage under the name of Stephanie
Harcourt.'

You hear that, old fellow,' said Cole to
Bernard ; ' am I right or wrong ? '

Let Mr Neville go on, Cole. I have
no hope left'

I had just come from New York then,
having made the Valley a bit too hot to hold
me again, and Fernan Cortes was arrested
for forgery whilst I was there, and condemned
to two years' imprisonment in the
Tombs. I inquired after his wife in the
city, but I couldn't hear anything of her,
so I was all the more surprised to recognise
her pretty face on the Chicago stage.
Of course I found out her address  I wish
to goodness now that I hadn't  and went
off to carry her the news of her husband's
arrest. I never saw a poor girl so delighted
in my life ; it was as if she had
been condemned to death, and I had been
the bearer of a free pardon. She went
right off her head, and was like a mad
creature. Then I was fool enough to give
her a dinner at one of the swell restaurants

there, and ply her with champagne  without
any idea, of course, except that of keeping
up her spirits, but it proved too much
for her, and she was dismissed from the
theatre that evening. I daresay Cole has
told you that part of the story, Mr Freshfield,
and I need not recapitulate. Nessie left
Chicago, and I have heard nothing of her
since, until you placed her portrait in my hand.
And what the dickens is she doing now ? '

Worse than she ever did in all her life
before, Neville. We owe you some explanation
after giving you all this trouble,
and I know you may be trusted with my
my friend's secret. I knew this girl under
the name of Stephanie Harcourt at Chicago.
I felt interested in her, as I suppose most
men would do if only on account of her
beauty, and when Evans dismissed her from
the theatre I visited her, and sent her
sufficient money to enable her to leave the
city. What was my astonishment, on going
to see my friend Freshfield the other day

at Bluemere  a clergyman, and a man of
property and standing in the county  you
won't credit me, Jack, but it's sacred truth
I'm telling you  what was my amazement
at finding that girl established at Briarwood
as his wife!

Heaven and earth ! ' cried Neville, starting
from his seat. ' What ! Nessie Macpherson,
the daughter of old Sandie, a
parson's wife ? It's impossible.'

'It is possible, my boy, and if I had
died in America, she would have probably
gone on to the end without detection. But
I recognised her at once, and when she
found it was the case, she cut and run.'

Best thing she could do,' remarked Jack
sententiously ; ' she's a nice little thing, but
as for sticking up to be any man's wife,
and a parson's above all men  O Lord  '

Dont! ejaculated Bernard in a voice
of pain ; and then he added in a very gentle
but manly manner, ' Mr Neville, I daresay
I must appear to you in the light only of

a very easily taken in fool ; but you must
remember that this  this lady came to
Bluemere under a feigned name to stay
with respectable people, and I had no
means of ascertaining her antecedents. I
I  loved her and believed in her. Tell
me all therefore that it is necessary I should
know ; but don't say more, at least till I am
gone, for I am scarcely strong enough yet
to bear it.'

There was such bitter unmistakable
suffering imprinted on his features that'
the best part of Jack Neville's nature was
aroused. He held out his hand to Bernard,
with a firm friendly grasp,  

I was thoughtless,' he said, ' and I beg
your pardon. That you have been easily
deceived by her, Mr Freshfield, is no blot
upon your character, it rather redounds to
your credit. I wouldn't give you twopence
for the man whom a pretty woman can't
take in. But I think now I have told you
all that I can about the girl whose portrait

this is, and who is without doubt the
same that I knew under the names of
Nessie Macpherson and Stephanie Harcourt.
And what shall you do now about
it?'

She has left me. I do not believe her
to be my wife. There is nothing left forme
to do except to bear it as best I may,'
said Bernard, in a broken voice.

Shall you return to Bluemere ? ' demanded
Nelson Cole.

Certainly ; because I have suffered a
terrible shock is no reason that my people
should suffer also. My duty lies in Blue-mere.
I had better return at once. And
I carry one consolation with me, my
conscience is at rest ; I have not wronged
her.'

I had better return with you, Bernard,'
said Cole anxiously.

As you will, dear old chum ; but it is
not necessary  in fact I would rather go
alone. I must learn to fight with this

grief that has come so suddenly upon
me, and which is far worse than death.
After a while, perhaps, if I hear nothing,
I will ask you to make some inquiries
for me. She must not want, you know ;
but for the present, I feel stunned and
unable to think. Let me go home at once,
Cole ; I am like a wounded animal, that
wants to get out of the light and die alone.'

All right, Bernard,' replied Cole, ' you
shall do exactly as you think best. After
a few days you shall be better able
to decide for yourself. For the present
I will remain with Neville. To-morrow
or next day, if you wish it, I will rejoin
you at Briarwood, for I shouldn't like to
leave England again, dear boy, without
another shake of the hand from you. And
keep up your pluck, old fellow. Remember
there are as good fish in the sea as any
that came out of it.'

Bernard shook his head with a sad
smile ; but he bade them farewell gratefully,

and walked downstairs again as-miserable
a man as existed in all England.


His friends talked very differently of
Miss Stephanie Harcourt as soon as his
back was turned.

Fine fellow that,' commenced Jack
Neville. ' I like his cut. He's straight asa
rule. I can read it in his eye.'

You'd say so if you knew him,' replied
Cole. * His only fault is being a parson.
That man would as soon shoot his own
mother as do a mean or dishonourable
action. But how he can have been so
green as to be taken in by that little jade
beats me altogether.'

Nessie's awfully pretty,' remonstrated
his companion, ' and when she's well
dressed, she looks a thorough lady. Not
that I often saw her in San 'Frisco.'

Jack, my boy, I never knew, till I
heard you tell the fact to Freshfield, that
you had been such a long time in Sacramento.

You must have known that old
devil Sandie Macpherson for several
years. Did you ever see or hear of a
person named Summers, who was connected
with him there ? '

Summers ! Summers ! ' said Jack reflectively.
' Let me see. Do you mean
a man ? '

No  a woman ! '

Young ? '

No replied Nelson Cole, as curtly as
before, ' middle-aged.'

Why do you want to know ? '

What's that to you, my son ? '

True. However, I don't remember
the name. I knew a lot of women there,
but I can't recall any one of the name of
Summers.'

Nelson Cole smoked in silence for a few
minutes as though he were making up
his mind to some mighty effort  then he
said suddenly, 

Jack, had Macpherson (curse him)

any one living with him whilst you were
there ? '

He had his wife replied Neville
innocently. But he was startled by the
tornado of passion his words roused in
his companion.

Wife!' he exclaimed vehemently
dashing his pipe upon the ground ; ' he
had no wife. He lied if he said so.
The woman who lived with him was only
another of his victims, and rather a more
wronged and helpless victim than the
rest. Macpherson stole her  the cowardly
scoundrel  as he stole the money of men
and their reputations and their lives.'

My dear Cole, don't put yourself Into
such a white heat on the matter. What
was the woman to you ? Did you know
her ? '

Cole paused to wipe the beads of perspiration
from his forehead before he
answered, 

Yes, I did know her  years and years

ago, and I knew her husband too, poor
devil  and what he suffered when she left
him, and I have sworn that, whenever
Sandie Macpherson and I meet face to
face, I will avenge his wrongs. She was
a good and true wife to him, Jack (to my
friend, you understand), until she met
that devil Macpherson, and he led her
astray  the arch fiend alone knows by
what means  for he is one of the ugliest
does that was ever created.'

You may well say that, Cole. He can
never have been handsome at any time,
with his freckled face and red hair, and
what he used to look like in a digger's
costume with a beard to his waist, you
may just imagine. He alway's went by
the name of Sandie the Devil amongst
the diggers, and well he deserved it. But
this woman you speak of. Can it have
been Mrs Moss ?'

'Moss  Moss; that is a coincidence,
Jack. Stephanie Harcourt went by the

name of Phyllida Moss when she came to
England ! It was under that name she
married poor Freshfield.'

Was it ? Well, I conclude she took the
idea from her mother.'

'Was Mrs Moss the mother of Stephanie
? ' asked Cole, with visible agitation.

I have been always told so. But
she is dead, as perhaps you know. She
died when Nessie was fourteen or fifteen
about a year before this iniquitous marriage
was brought about with that brute
Cortes.'

She is dead, is she ? ' said Cole slowly.
Well, if she was the woman I mean, I
am glad to hear it. Dead ! escaped from
his clutches  gone to a more merciful
gaoler. Thank Heaven for her release !
Poor Agnes.'

That was her name, I know,' interposed
Neville. ' I have heard Macpherson call
her by the name of Agnes over andover
again.'

'And what was she like, Jack?' said
Cole eagerly ; ' describe her to me as
well as you can. Let me be sure that it is
my  my  poor friend's wife that lies at
rest at last.'

She was a tall, slight woman  if you
are speaking of Mrs Moss  with dark eyes
and hair  '

Yes, yes ; go on, my lad, go on ! ' cried
the other hastily.

A great quantity of hair that fell down
to her waist, and small hands and feet;
and a French accent, and  '

It was she, without doubt ; it was poor
Agnes whom you knew. But why did
she call herself Moss instead of Macpherson
? '

That I cannot tell you. I thought
perhaps it was because Macpherson himself
was in such evil odour in California,
and so often in scrapes, that she preferred
like some American women  to keep
her maiden name ; and it is quite certain

that Nestle was never styled Macpherson
till after her mother's death. You see
Mrs Moss was a sort of protection to the
girl ; but when she was removed, Sandie
had her entirely in his power, and a nice
use he made of it.'

Did he ill-treat her ? '

Shamefully. The whole Valley was up
in arms about it. For my part, I was not
surprised to hear she had run off with
Cortes ; I should not have been surprised
to hear anything of the girl, she suffered
so much from his violence.'

Poor child ! Well, it will only add
another knot to the lash I have in store
for that gentleman. It is quite in accordance
with the character I have heard of
him that he should ill-treat his own child.
I confess, Neville, that when I met you
after that business in Chicago, and found
that I had been assisting the daughter of
my greatest enemy, I was sorry for it, and
the knowledge of whose child she is made

VOL. III. E

me sterner perhaps with her the other day
than I need have been ; but now that you
tell me she is only another of his victims,
I will try and forget she is his flesh and
blood;

But, my dear fellow, I don't know that
she Is. The general belief in Sacramento
was that Nessie was not Macpherson's
daughter.'

'What do you mean, Neville?' cried
Nelson Cole, starting to his feet ; ' not his
daughter ? Then, whose daughter could
she be ? Was not this Mrs Moss her
mother?'

Oh yes ; there is no doubt of that ; but
I imagined  I may be wrong, you know,
but this was the general Idea  that Mrs
Moss had been married twice, and that
Nessie was her child by the first marriage.
Any way, she was several weeks old, I
believe, when Macpherson brought the
woman he called his wife to Sacramento
; and I have been told by those

who knew him then that he constantly
disclaimed all relationship with Nessie.
Now that you tell me that Mrs Moss
was seduced from her husband by Sandie,
the things is clear enouofh-  Nessie must
be the daughter of the man she 'deserted."


God in heaven ! ' cried Cole. ' Why
did this never strike me before ? '

I wonder it didn't strike Mrs Moss's
husband,' said Jack.

Because, my dear boy, he had left his
wife six months before in New York, whilst
he went down South on business. And
during his absence that reptile Macpherson
used some of his diabolical arts by which
to convince Agnes Summers that her husband
was untrue to her, and she succumbed
(as too many women do)  not to her passion,
but to her desire of retaliation. And
so her husband lost her ; and so he has
gone through the world since, waiting, but
longing, for his revenge. And you really

think that this girl is the child of  of  my
friend ? '

I think it is very probable ; I am sure
the mother thought so, though she brought
up Nessie to look upon Macpherson as her
father ; but perhaps that was to avoid
trouble after her death, for she was a longtime
dying.'

Poor Agnes ! ' murmured Cole thoughtfully,
as he remembered the worn wedding-ring
and the curious fashion in which it had
reached him.'

Cole, did you say you were only waiting
to meet Sandie Macpherson face to
face ? '

It's true, my boy. I've tracked him from
one State to another, but always missed him
by a flash of lightning. He knows we have
a heavy account to settle with each other,
and slips through my fingers like an eel.
But the day will come, Jack ; sooner or later
it must come.'

Perhaps it has come, Cole, for Sandie

the Devil Is in England. I saw his ugly
face  clean shorn, but still his own  only
last night.'

Where ? where ? ' cried Cole, roused into
sudden activity.

He was pushing through a crowd when
I caught sight of him, and I didn't attract
his notice, as you may suppose. That man
is my evil genius, and misfortune has always
followed in his wake for me. So I didn't
stop to shake his dirty hand. But he is in
London, safe and sure.'

Neville, I can't return on the loth. This
matter must be settled before I leave England.
The sleepers start by the King of
the Icebergs, and I shall telegraph to 
at once that business detains me
here for an indefinite period.'

Will it be wise, Cole, to let your friend's
private affairs interfere with your relations
with Farquharson ' '

My connection with the firm, my annual
income, and every prospect I have in life,

may go smash before I will give up this
opportunity of settling old scores with that
scoundrel. Neville, you don't know  it is
impossible to tell you  the bad blood that
is between us ! '

I know one thing,' replied the younger
man, laughing, ' that you are determined to
have a slap at the old hypocrite, and I wish
you all success. If I could help you to
smash him I should be but too glad.'

They don't allow Lynch law in this
country,' said Cole; ' but they'll have to stand
it for once in a way if Sandie Macpherson
and I cross each other's path, and they may
give me six months afterwards if they will,
but I'll have my revenge on him. It would
be cheap at any cost'

And then having made some appointment
with his friend for the evening, Nelson
Cole took his way slowly downstairs with
a mouth that looked as determined as a bulldog's,
and an eye that gleamed with the
softness of a woman's. The one was for

Sandie Macpherson, the other for Phyllida
Moss.

Poor child ! ' he thought, 'poor ill-used
child ! At any rate she is hers, and from
this time forward I will stand her friend.'

O W Bernard Freshfield reached
home that day, he said afterwards
that he never knew. It is supposed
that he travelled by cabs and trains in
the same way that happy mortals (if there
are any) perform their journeys ; but it was
all done mechanically, and he was conscious
but of one thought the while, that he was
alive, and he wished that he could die. He
was a good man ; but it was too soon for
him to become reconciled to such an awful
disappointment  the worst that had ever
befallen him. He could not realise that it
was true  that would have been impossible

but he kept on repeating mentally the Intelligence
that had been conveyed to him by
Jack Neville and Nelson Cole, and wondering
in a dull, stupefied way if they could be
mistaken, and resolving that he would tax
his wife with it, face to face, and then,
waking up with a start, to remember that
she was 710 his wife, and that she was
gone.

Briarwood without Phyllida ! It was incredible
 it would never look like the
same place again  but then that was a
trifle compared to the rest ; sae world would
never look the same to him again, it was
puerile fretting about Briarwood. As he
walked home from Westertown (for he felt
that when he coitld use action it was the
only preservative against his going mad), he
could not help comparing his feelings with
those he experienced on losing his first wife.
He had been very lonely then ; the house
had seemed like an empty mausoleum to
him, and he had never entered the hall for

months afterwards, and encountered the stairs
without recalling how he had watched the
bearers carry Alice's coffin from her bedroom
to the library, and had removed the lid to take
one more look at her pale waxen face before
it was hid away from him for ever. He had
not loved her as he could love, but she had
endeared herself to him, and no man can
lose the woman who has been part of his
life, without the loss being succeeded by a
terrible sense of loneliness. But with the
loneliness, however hard to bear, come rest,
solitude, and silence  three strong friends to
help us to cope with sorrow. In his present
position, Bernard could have no such assistance,
and he felt as if the first he should
never know again, and the other two he
could not bear. If she had only died, he
kept on saying to himself  meaning Phyllida,
of course  died with her hand in his, true
and loving to the last, like his poor, forgotten
Alice, he could have struggled with misfortune.
But to think of her living still.

though lost to him  the wife perhaps of
some other man (since their union was
proved to have been illegal), the thought was
madness  he could not  dare not, think.

There were his people waiting for his
return ; his work amongst them to be punctually
performed. As he strode on through
the gathering darkness (for it was late in
the afternoon) he told himself there was but
one way in which to meet the storm that
had overtaken him, and that was by work 
hard, constant, faithful work  and he would
try no other remedy. He had been careless,
perhaps. The charm of this woman's
society and ways and manners had kept
him too much by her side, and caused him
to neglect his humbler friends. He had
provoked the Almighty to send forth His
thunders and lightnings upon him. In the
freshness of his grief Bernard Freshfield
forgot the heart and essence of the religion
to which he had ever clung ; he overlooked
the ' All-loving'* who had been to him as

an actual fatherly presence, and called Him
the Almighty instead. How much some
women will have to answer for hereafter 
the chanting women especially, who hold
the power of drawing men after them and
detaining them there. A woman has but
too often come between a good man and
his God before Bernard Freshfield's time.
But his nature was too noble to succumb
utterly to such weakness. As he entered
the grounds of Briarwood it struck him, for
the first time, that he should have to give
some explanation of the disappearance of
Phyllida to his friends and servants. He
had been too much absorbed in his own
grief to think of it, and even now it troubled
him but little compared with all the rest.
After all, what was the shame, compared
with the loss ? Only he must spare her
name as much as he possibly could. He let
himself into the house, and walked into the
library. The lamps were burning brightly,
the fire had been well tended ; it was evident

that his servants had expected him home
again. He rung the bell for Mrs Garnett
twice. That was his accustomed signal that
he required her services, and he felt in his
present state of mind that he could better
encounter a woman than a man. The old
housekeeper appeared, prim and spotless
as usual, and without a sign of disturbance
on her countenance.

I am glad to see you home, sir ; I was
beginning to feel uneasy. The days do
close in so soon now. I suppose you will
take your dinner at seven as usual ? '

Yes  no  ' replied Bernard incoherently.
 Dinner, oh yes, of course I will.
I mustn't forget Mrs Penfold. By the
way, that's what I wanted, Mrs Garnett.
Please ask Mrs Penfold to come and speak
to me here.'

But, if you please, sir, she's gone ! '

Gone I Where to ? '

I understood she had gone to, stay with
Mrs Pinner, sir ; at least she packed up her

box and left word for the stable boy to take
it over there on a barren Mrs Penfold was
very curious like and upset in her mind all
the morning, sir. She kept on saying that
she'd better go, and that you wouldn't like
to see her here when you returned, and I
thought, perhaps, there had been a sort of
misunderstanding between you. But it
wasn't my place to say anything, sir, so I
just let her go.'

She must do as she thinks best,' replied
Bernard indifferently, * though there is no
reason why she should not have remained
at Briarwood. Any news from the village,
Mrs Garnett?' he added with a sigh.

Well, yes, sir. As I was just saying
to Edwards, they've been coming and going
all day like a hive of bees. But it was the
mistress they was after, and it was no use
my telling them she wouldn't be home tonight.
Old William Bennett has the rheumatics
very bad, and wanted some of that
famous liniment ; but you see, sir, I hadn't

the mistress's keys to get it. Then Mrs
Sutton was taken ill, and sent up for her.
As if she could be at all the labours in the
village, as I told 'em. This evening, not
half-an-hour ago, up comes John Wright to
ask if she could step down to his little Katie,
who had scalded her foot with upsetting the
tea-kettle, and she kept on screaming out
for Mrs Freshfield. I sent them down a
roll of cotton wool, and said that would do
the child more good than the mistress, even
if she had been to home. They think they
can't do anything without her now, sir.
It's here, there, and everywhere, they want
her just for all the world as if she was
their slave.'

Poor creatures ! poor creatures ! ' groaned
Bernard, as he thought how his loss would
reflect on so many. His manner alarmed
the housekeeper.

I hope there's nothing wrong, sir ? ' she
said respectfully. ' Me and Edwards have
been quite in a quandary all day, what with

the mistress going away so suddenly, and
you too.'

She was an old servant, who had served
his family faithfully for many years, and he
tried to tell her of his trouble, but broke
down utterly in the attempt.

There is something wrong,' he gasped,
but don't speak to me of it yet, for I cannot
bear it. Only do this for me, Garnett. You
and Edwards have been more than servants
to me ; be my friends in this predicament,
and try to hold your tongues. I  I  don't
quite think she will return,  not just yet, I
mean,  but you shall know all about it by-and-by.
x\nd don't worry me with dinner.
Only leave me alone and undisturbed, and
make the best of it you can downstairs.'

The old woman curtsied to him and instantly
withdrew. She had suspected the
worst from the drift of Mrs Penfold's lamentations,
and the alacrity with which that
lady had removed herself and her belongings
from Briarwood. But the uneducated, however

well-intentioned, can never leave a mystery
to be a mystery They must supplement
it with speculations of their own. Edwards
and Garnett had already decided that as no
one knew why Mrs Bernard Freshfield had
left her home, it was quite evident she did
not go alone, and visions of mustachioed
rakes, v/ith gold-braided uniforms and
swords clanking by their sides, had been
floating through their minds all day. It was
not the slightest obstacle to their imasina-

o o

tion that no officers had been seen in Blue-mere
or its vicinity since their master's
marriage.

I always did hate them milling mary,'
Mrs Garnett had ejaculated, as they discussed
the subject together. ' I might have
been married to a soldier myself; but I
thank the Lord I wasn't ; for I've heard
since as they're the sickles and poorest
and most imperious lot. Poor Garnett
always maintained so.'

And after her interview with Bernard in

VOL. III. F

the library, she was still more certain that
a * nasty soldier ' must be at the bottom of
his undisguised misery, though she and
Edwards were both too faithful to his interests
to do more than whisper their suspicions
in each other's ear. In the servants'
hall they declared  and, let us hope, were
forgiven for the pious lie  that the master
had been with the mistress all day ; but as
she was nursing her own aunt by the father's
side, and the complaint was not infectious,
he had given his leave for her to stay away -
as long as she was required.

And I'm afraid it will be some time
before we see the mistress back again,'
added Mrs Garnett (not content with having
told a lie and done with it) ; ' for / know
what her poor, dear aunt lies ill of, and ita
disease as will never rest till it's carried
her off. And how I'm to satisfy all these
poor people as come hollering after the
mistress, whilst she's away, the Lord only
knows. But if any of you jades go to disturb

the master in the liberty or elsewhere,'

cried Mrs Garnett, with a sudden change

of manner, 'you'll lose your places. He's

plot more than enough to think of and manes
o

age, poor, dear gentleman, with the whole
parish visiting thrown on his hands. So
you mind what I say, ' and keep down herein
your proper places, or it will be the worse
for you.'

Meanwhile Bernard remained in the library,
in silent torture, with his face buried
in his hands, trying to disentangle the confused
thoughts that tripped each other upas
they rushed helter-skelter through his
brain ; to reduce the chaos into order  to
remember exactly what had happened to
him, and to decide what influence it would
exert upon his future. He had one especially
hard task before him  to tell the truth
to his mother. He felt he must tell it ;
that it was due to her and to Laura that they
should hear of the disgrace that had fallen
on the family, through his means, from his

own lips. He did not know how much
or how Httle of the news had already circulated
through Bluemere. Mrs Penfold's
sudden departure seemed as though she was
aware of it ; it would never do for it to
reach Blue Mount by a stranger's hand.
He pulled out pen and paper at once, and
wrote hurriedly ; but his letter was addressed
not to Mrs Freshfield,  but to
Laura.

My dearest Sister,  A terrible blow-has
fallen upon me, Which you must not
hear from any one but myself. Phyllida
has left me. She was never my wife.
She was a married woman when she came
to England, and Cole (who knew her in
America) recognised her directly they met.
Break this news to my poor mother as
gently as you can, and talk about It as
little as possible. And whatever you do,
don't come to Briar wood, for I cannot
speak on this subject nor see any one,

at all events for the present.  Ever your
affectionate brother, Bernard.'

He sealed his letter and dispatched it
by a groom, and then he went up to
the chamber which Phyllida had occupied
and locked himself in, and spent the night
amidst the relics of his lost love, with
which it was strewn. She had taken
nothing away with her apparently, except
the plain serge dress she wore. All the
costly fabrics he had taken such delight
in purchasing for her  the delicate silks
and satins ; the sable trimmed and velvet
mantles ; the lace and jewellery that had
excited the indignation of her mother-in-law
 were all there. She had left them
behind her seemingly with the utmost indifference,
and gone forth into the fog and
the darkness, unprovided and alone. Even
her purse containing the money with which
he supplied her for the parish needs 
(' Judas's bag,' as the poor child had laughingly

called it) lay on the toilet table,
and Bernard took it up mechanically and
counted the contents. A five-pound note,
two sovereigns, and seven shillings in
silver. What had Phyllida taken with
her ? he thought in a dazed manner ; by
what means did she intend to provide for
herself in the future ? But even such
speculations did not cause any feelings of
tenderness or compassion towards her.
His whole heart was hardened by the
blow it had received ; he would not remember
that she had been the wife of
his bosom ; he thought of her only as the
woman who had deceived him and brought
him to shame, who had been deceiving
all her life (so his curdled nature was
ready to believe), and who would go on
deceiving till she died. He was rough
even with the poor things she had left
behind her, and kicked such as lay in his
way to one side with his foot  a very
different mode of procedure to the tenderness

with which he had handled the
reminiscences of the dead oirl whom he
had never loved with one tithe of the
passion which was even then raging in
his breast. Violent emotions must have
their violent counterparts. The deceived
lover who can bless and pardon, has
ceased to regret the infidelity he so readily
condoned, and a woman need never desire
a better compliment from an old admirer
than when he refuses to meet her altogether.
She may rely that he feels himself
too weak to bear her presence, or too
strong : too full of regret for the past, or
too angry with the present. When lovers
become friends, the passion of love has
expended itself. Had Phyllida entered
Bernard's presence at that moment, he
might have killed her.

Meanwhile, it is impossible to describe
the consternation with which his news was
received at Blue Mount. Had he written
to say that Phyllida had dropped down

dead, it could not have surprised and
shocked poor Laura more. She had grown
so fond of her sister-in-law, they had become
so confidential and friendly together,
and read so much of each other's hearts
and minds, that the revelation was as
ghastly as though she had been told that
her mother, whom she honoured above
all women, had led a life of iniquity and
sin.

Phyllida already married, and not to Bernard
! Living at Briarwood, and making
every one so happy there, and showing
such a bright, sweet example to all who
went to her for comfort or advice, and
yet not Bernard's wife  the wife of some
other man ! Oh, it vas incredible  it could
not be ! Berne's mind must have been led
astray by some diabolical arts ; his friend
Nelson Cole must be mistaken, or mad 
or  or  anything, sooner than she could
credit that Phyllida was not as good and
pure as she seemed.

The dear, brave girl read her painful
letter and kept the secret, hugging It to
her breast as the Spartan boy concealed
the fox that preyed upon his vitals  taking
It out In the night, and perusing the horrible
sentences It contained again and again,
but still remaining steadfast to her first Idea
that the thing was Impossible.

She did not heed Bernard's Injunction
that he would not be disturbed either by
her mother or herself, but slipped out of
the house as soon as breakfast was over
the following morning, and made her way
to Briarwood without breathing a word of
her Intention to Mrs Freshfield. She
opened the hall-door (doors are generally
kept upon the latch in country places),
and without ceremony entered the library.
There sat her brother at his writing-table,
pale, hollow-eyed, and stern, but still occupied
just as usual with his parish papers.
His greeting to Laura was not a genial
one, 

I thought I desired you not to come
here,' he said gravely.

I know you did, dear, dear Berne ; but
how do you suppose I could obey such an
order ? I received your note  I need not
tell you that ; but I have not said a word
about it to mamma.'

'Why not?'

Because I don't believe what you wrote
to me : because I think you must be labouring
under some terrible delusion, and I
want to see if it cannot be cleared away
again.'

It is not a delusion ; it can never be
cleared away. You might have taken my
word for it,' replied her brother.

No, Berne, I cannot. I must hear
everything about it, from beginning to end.
I want to know what Mr Cole said, and why
he said it, and what it was that frightened
dear Phyllida away . Oh, Berne, I love
her so dearly  she is like m} own sister tome.
I cannot give her up at a moment's

notice, and on the condemnation of a man
who is a perfect stranger to me.'

Oh, Laura, you might have spared me
this ordeal groaned Bernard, with his face
burled in his hands. * I tell you there is no
mistake  it is but too true  and the fact that
directly she was taxed with her crime, she
fled from my protection, is sufficient proof
that she knew it to be true.'

Who taxed her with it ? '

Nelson Cole. He knew her in America,
under the name of Harcourt.'

Berne, I hate this Nelson Cole. What
does he mean by coming as a welcomed
guest into such a happy family as ours, and
spreading misery and dissension amongst
us in this way . '

You don't know what you are talking
of, Laura. You cannot understand such a
matter. No man, who is worthy of the
name, could see his friend the dupe of an
artful intricate, without opening his eyes
to his disgrace,'

Bernard, how dare you speak of Phyllida
by such a name ? ' replied his sister boldly ;
if yozt can forget in so short a time all she
has been to you, / cannot. An intricate !
I would as soon believe myself to be one.'

Oh, Laurie, Laurie, you don't know how
much harder you are making all this for me
to bear. Yesterday I would have said the
same as yourself  to-day I cannot. But
don't think that I would not blot out the
conviction (if I could) with my heart's blood.
God knows, I would die ten thousand deaths
to restore Phyllida to the place she once held
in my estimation.'

'And so would I, darling; so would I,'
cried the warm-hearted Laura, ' and do you
think it possible that a bad woman would
have been able to gain such power over
us as that ? Do you imagine that a deceitful,
lying adventuress (such as Mr Nelson Cole
would wish us to believe dear Phyllida to be)
could change all at once to the sweet, loving,
sympathising soul who made herself the

good angel of Bluemere ? Why, brother,
the people simply worship her. And you
have let your fine American friend drive
her away.'

She went of her own accord,' sighed
poor Bernard ; ' besides, no sophistry nor
arguments can alter facts, and the fact remains
 she was a married woman.'

To whom was she married ? '

Oh, what does it matter ? to some low
ruffian in the States ; or rather she was
divorced from him (but you know how I
regard divorce), when she was cruel enough
to go through the farce of wedding me.'

Is her husband dead since then ?'

Yes. He died some months ago.'

Then you can marry her over again,'
cried Laura confidently.

Laura, of what are you thinking ? Marry
a woman who laid herself out to deceive
me. Who lived here for six months with
a secret that was eating out her very
heart, and never disclosed it to her husband,

who sat at my table and smiled in
my face  '

Yes, and who brought sunshine into
your heart despite the canker in her own ;
who could make the poor happy whilst she
suffered herself ; who could watch by the
bedside of the sick whilst she wanted
comfort and consolation most of all. My
poor, brave Phyllida ; my dear, sweet sister.
If everybody else turns against her, I will
search the world until I have found her,
and thanked her for all the love she
showed to us.'

But Bernard turned away from Laura
with offended dignity. How hard it is to
knock his pride out of the very best
of Englishmen. It is an integral part of
himself. The poor man shows it as openly
as the rich, and both are rather proud
of being proud than otherwise. Bernard
Freshfield's heart was burning to relieve
itself by tears ; the mention of Phyllida's
virtues touched him to the very quick ;

but he would not give way to the weakness
of allowing any part of her to be good.
She had deceived him, that was quite
sufficient.

I should be sorry that my mother
should hear you speak In such a manner,
Laura,' he said gravely. * Whatever my 
my  I mean whatever Phylllda was In
Bluemere she can never be again, and she
would never have been had her antecedents
been honestly revealed to us. Cole knew
her as a burlesque actress on the American
stage, and  and  not always as quietly
conducted as she should have been even
there.'

How 7j2ean of him to tell, even. If he
did know,' replied the girl with flashing
eyes. * But I don't believe It, and I won't ;
and even If she were an actress, does that
make her good deeds the less to be admired ?
It makes them a thousand times more
valuable. It Is not often a woman gives
up all the excitement and gaiety of professional

life to be the Lady Bountiful of
an out-of-the-way village, and dispense liniments
and bandages to the poor. You
have made Phyllida rise Instead of sink
in my estimation by that announcement,
Bernard, / can tell you.'

But the rock had not yet been smitten
b} the rod that should make the waters
flow.

It would be well If we all possessed
so staunch a little advocate as yourself in
our troubles, Laura,' he answered with a
sickly smile ; ' but I must really ask you
now to leave me. I have a lot of business
on hand, and I am not In very good form
for working.'

Bernard, where Is Phyllida ? '

I cannot tell you. Why will you continue
to mention a name which you must
know Is agony for me to hear ? '

But you don't expect me to drop it
for ever, brother, surely ? A person can't
come in and go out of our lives again in

this fashion without leaving some trace
behind. When are you going after
her?'

Never ! ' he said resolutely.

I don't believe it.'

You must believe what you choose,
Laura. It is impossible for you to read
my heart. I can only tell you what is
written there. And one thing is, that
Phyllida Moss and I will never meet in
this world again.'

Then I don't envy your chances of
meeting her in the next,' said his sister
defiantly ; ' an unforgiving spirit will be,
I should imagine, about the last to enter
heaven.'

Laura, will you be good enough to leave
me to myself You are increasing my
torture to a degree of which I could not
have believed you capable.'

What am I to say to mother, then ? '

Tell her the truth.'

Yes ; when I know what is the truth.'

VOL. III. G

I have already told you ; I have nothing
more to say.'

It will be a grand opportunity for mamma,
certainly,' continued Laura, hoping by
.sarcasm to rouse her brother into action,
for she is going to hold a regular levee
of saints next week, and they will be as
happy tearing poor Phyllida's character to
shreds as your kennel over a defunct sheep.
Miss Janet's brother, the Laird o' Muckheep,
is once more standing on his native heather,
and she has volunteered a visit for all three -
of them to Blue Mount. It will be a sort
of universal jubilee. I believe mamma entertains
flattering hopes that the pious laird
may take a fancy to transplant me to
Garrick - gallants Castle ; and now that
Phyllida is out of the way for good and
all. Miss Bella may yet have a chance of
reigning at Briarwood  the news will just
reach them in time. I expect we shall
have meetings called for praise and thanksgiving
every day.'

Laura, Laura, you are going too far,'
said poor Bernard, writhing under the lashes
she gave him.

I shall never have gone far enough until
I have found Phyllida again,' was the girl's
parting shot, as she ran hurriedly from
the room, lest she should break down
under the crushing disappointment she felt
She was to tell her mother then  there
Alas no help for it  and she would have
to undergo the purgatory of hearing the
name which had become so dear to her,
vilified and abused in every possible way.
How Miss Janet would hold forth on 'carnal
procleevities ; ' how Bella would blink
her sandy eyelashes, and pull down the
corners of her coarsely-moulded mouth, and
profess to be too much shocked to take
part in the conversation. How the hateful
laird (for Laura hated the laird before
she had seen him) would thank God he
was not as other men are, and her infatuated
mother would chime in and agree

with everything they said, and think them
the most pious people she had ever met.

Well, what must be, must be ; but though
she was a brave young woman, Laura Fresh-field
felt that she would dearly like to have
some one to help her in breaking the news
to her mother ; some one to stand between
herself and the inevitable storm ; someone
to make the best of things, not only
at Blue Mount but at Briarwood. And feeling
thus, her thoughts seem to go naturally
(as it were) to Charles Anderson, Bernard's
greatest friend, and a man to whom
he would listen, perhaps, sooner than to
any other, because he had strong religious
feelings, and had given up his best prospects
in life for the sake of his faith. Mr
Anderson was resident in London ; but our
young lady was quite equal to dispatching
a telegram to his address ; and the same
afternoon he appeared at Blue Mount.
Laura contrived to receive him alone (indeed
Mrs Freshfield always shirked the

young Catholic's presence, from dread of
social contamination), and in a few minutes
she had put him in possession of the terrible
story.

Go over to Briarwood and tell Berne
what to do she said, in conclusion ; ' he
will take your advice, Charlie, when he
would listen to that of no other. He
thinks so highly of your discretion and
powers of judgment.' *

He flatters me, Laura,' replied Anderson,
' and you have set me a very difficult
task, yet I will do my best for your sake and
Bernard's ; but what can I say to him } '

Charlie, wasn't their marriage sacred '. '
Of course, my dear Laura, all marriages
are sacred ; but in this case you see  '

Oh, I am not speaking of its legality,'
she interrupted hastily ; ' I know, of course,
that the marriage ceremony would have to
be performed over again ; but I am speaking
of their hearts. They truly loved each
other. Berne used to say theirs was a

perfect union ; that they were in reality one.
How can anything that occurred before that
marriage destroy its sacred unity ? '

'It is a hard question to answer, Laura ;
you must give me time to think over it.'

I cannot do that. You must either ofo
over to Briarwood at once, or break this
dreadful intelligence to mamma ; for I tremble
at every ring at the bell lest it should bring
some visitor open-mouthed to inform her of
it. But do go to Berne first. He would
hardly speak to me this morning ; but to
you he may confide something that will
soften the blow to mamma.'

I can refuse you nothing, Laura,' replied
Mr Anderson, as he prepared to start for
Briarwood.

E reached Brlarwood at dusk, and
found his friend Bernard still in
the library, professing to read
and write, but in reality doing nothing but
stare into vacancy. He had not moved
from his seat all day, nor taken any nourishment.
The fire was nearly out ; the lamps
were unlighted ; the desolation of the apartment
bespoke the corresponding feeling in
the owner's heart.

This is kind of you, Charlie,' he said
languidly, as Anderson took his hand, but
he never rose from his seat to welcome
him ; ' how did you hear the news ? I

can see you slave heard it from your face ;
surely it is not in possession of the newspapers
yet ? '

No, no, Bernard, no such thing ; don't
talk nonsense. I came down to Bluemere
on receipt of a telegraphic message from
your good little sister, who has an idea
that the presence of an old and very true
friend may prove some comfort to you in
this trouble.'

Nothing can comfort me, Charlie, and
no one. It is a wound past cure. The
sooner I bleed to death the better. '

Yes,' said Anderson reflectively, ' and
meanwhile, what is to become of your
profession and your parish and your
people ? '

I need have no fear for them,' replied
Bernard. ' They could not fall into worse
hands than mine. I have been altogether
wrong from beginning to end. I see it
more plainly now than I have ever
done.'

Indeed, this is news to me. I imagined
that you and Bluemere were on
excellent terms with one another, and
that everything in the parish was working
smoothly and well. How long is it since
you found out it is altogether wrong ? '

Since she left me ! ' burst out Bernard
passionately ; ' since she took all the sunshine
and hope of life away with Her, and
made mee the most miserable man upon
earth. It is she who has done it all,
Anderson ; I swear it. We were  we were
so happy together, and now there is nothing
before me but a wretched blank. I feel
as if I were going to the devil, and it won't
be her fault if I dont go there.'

Bernard, you shock me,' said Anderson,
-" and make me feel more strongly than ever
how wise is our Church in prohibiting the
marriage of her priests. A woman  one
single woman turns out to be something
different from what you expected her to be,
.and everything in consequence  your vows,

your profession, your people, and your
prayers  are to look after themselves, or
worse. I couldn't have believed it of
you.'

I know what you would tell me replied
Bernard wildly, 'that God is left, and
whatever happens, He is always ours, and
I know it  / know it ! but oh, Charlie,
old boy, He is behind a cloud. I cannot
see Him or hear Him, or feel* His hand;;
and I am going mad. I know I am. I
am going out of my senses with grief and
longing and fear.'

And throwing his head suddenly down
upon his outstretched arms, Bernard Fresh-field
gave way to one of those storms of
emotion which men sometimes indulge in,
and cried as violently at if he had been a
child. His friend did not attempt to check
him ; on the contrary, he left his seat and
walked round the room, professing to
examine the pictures and ornaments, until
Bernard should have had time to recover

himself. But, by-and-by, whilst the parson
was still catching his breath in the convulsive
manner that succeeds passionate weeping,
he felt a kind, warm hand laid on his
which, without looking up, he grasped between
both of his own.

Charlie, dear old fellow,' he sobbed,
you have always been like a brother tome,
but this is an ill you cannot cure.'

I don't profess even to try to do so,
dear Bernard,' said Anderson ; ' but perhaps
it may be ameliorated. When you feel strong
enough for the task I want you to tell me
all the rights and wrongs of it.'

There aix no rights  it is all wrongs,'
groaned the unfortunate husband, .* and it
has humiliated me as nothing else on earth
could have done. Fancy, Charlie, me, with
my grand ideas of the sanctity of marriage
the greatest human sacrament in existence 
the institution of God for the regeneration
of mankind by a dual existence  taken in,,
duped, dishonoured by the woman whom

6)

I had made part of my very life. But I
see it all now ; my eyes are open. I
worshipped her instead of the God who
made her, and I am justly punished for my
sin. But oh, if the Lord had but adopted
some other means by which to empty the
vials of His wrath upon me.'

Bernard, did your wife  '

Don't call her by that name. She is not
my wife.'

If I understood your sister rightly, she
believed herself to be your wife, and you
believed her to be so, therefore I think she
has every claim to the name. However, I
will call her Mrs Freshfield. You will at
least not refuse to grant her the courtesy
which is accorded to those women who
assume her position, knowing it to be
such.'

Bernard groaned, but answered nothing.

*When Mrs Freshfield left Briarwood, she
surely gave an explanation of her actions
to some one.'

She left a note behind her for me.'

May I ask what was in it, Bernard ?'

The parson unlocked a drawer in his
writing-table, and taking thence a half sheet
of paper, threw it across to his friend.

You can read it if you like. There it is.'

Anderson took the note in his hands and
examined it closely ; when he had finished
the perusal, he simply raised his eyes and
fixed them on those of his companion.

Well,' said Bernard, in a tone of voice as
though he defied him to find any excuse for
Phyllida in that.

Well.' echoed Anderson, ' have you read
this letter, Bernard ?'

Of course I have read it.'

More than once ? When you have been
calm enough to decipher its meaning " '
persisted his friend.

I don't know what you're driving at,
Charlie. The words are plain enough  no
one can misunderstand them.'

I should have thought so, too, but it

appears I am mistaken. May I read it to
you ? '

If you will, but I don't see the use of it.'

Anderson, not heeding the grumbling
remonstrance, commenced to read, 

' Bernard, by the time this reaches you,
your friend will have told you all he knows
about me ; and you will have learned how
much you have been deceived." '

There, you see what she says herself,'
interrupted Freshfield. ' She acknowledges
I was grossly deceived.'

How could she do otherwise, poor girl '. '
replied Anderson ; ' the question is, how far
she was deceived herself. Her words tell
how deeply she felt for you.'

'' But oh, my darling, don't fret about it.
I will never disgrace you more. I am going
away where you will never hear of me.
Only try to forget everything about me,
.excepting''  read, Anderson, slowly and emphatically
 " excepting that I loved you very
dearly, and had not strength to do what I

might to have done. But indeed  indeed,
I believed myself to be your wife." '

Does she say that ? ' asked Freshfield
quickly, as Anderson came to a full stop.

Does she say that ? Of course she
does. I thought you told me just now
that you had read the letter.'

So I did, when I first received it, but
it was such an awful blow to me, my head
was all in a whirl ; and then I had to go
with Cole to London and see a fellow
called Neville, who had known her in the
lowest possible position, and oh, Charlie,'
continued Bernard, breaking down again,
if you had heard what they had to tell
me, you would never talk of there being
any hope again.'

Bernard, old fellow, confide the very
worst to me. You know I am to be
trusted, and I cannot advise you unless I
hear it. What are the most serious
charges these gentlemen bring against
Mrs Freshfield?'

That she Is the daughter of some low
ruffian who kept a gambling saloon in
Sacramento Valley.'

'Well, that is unfortunate; but it is not
her fault, and it has certainly left no
traces on her behaviour. What next ? '

She was married at sixteen to a man
who turned out to be a criminal, Anderson,,
a forger, and got two years' imprisonment
in a New York gaol ; and, meanwhile,
Phyllida, who was on the stage  fancy
the stage for my wife, Charlie ! (he interpolated
with a shudder)  got an irregular
divorce from the brute, and came to England
and married me,  /, who do not believe
in any kind of divorce ; and had I known
her antecedents, would have avoided her
even as a friend.'

I thought you considered yourself a
broad-minded man,' said Anderson ; ' however,
let that pass. Did Mrs Freshfield
consider her divorce to be complete, from
a moral as well as a legal point of view t '

I suppose she did, from what she says
here.'

And married you, believing herself a
free woman ? '

Perhaps so ; but that didn't make her
free.'

'Can you call to mind, Freshfield,
whether in your courting days you ever
questioned her as to her past ? It seems
strange you should have married a woman
who was an absolute stranger to you.'

I am not sure if I did. I know she
refused to marry me several times, and
made me so mad, that I was determined
to have her at all risks.'

Rather a worldly sort of proceeding
that for a parson,  eh, Bernard ? and one
that lays the onus of such a marriage
more upon your shoulders than hers.
Don't you think so ? '

Oh, I don't deny I was to blame,
Charlie. I am only cursing my own folly
in being so easily taken in.'

VOL. III. H

I deny that you were '' taken in." It
appears to me you entered into the contract
with your eyes wide open to the
truth that they were not so ; in fact, it
suited your convenience to be hoodwinked.'


I was infatuated with her,' sighed Fresh-field.
' No woman has ever held me in
such thrall as she did  '

As she does, you mean. Now look here,
Bernard, it seems to me the case stands
thus  you meet a very pretty girl of whom-you
know nothing, and fall desperately in
love and marry her nilly-willy. She (believing
herself to be free) takes you at
your word, and you probably said that you
couldn't live without her. Didn't you,
now ? '

Oh, I daresay I did. She made fool
enough of me for anything.'

She has certain unfortunate antecedents
(I won't call them disgraceful, for
they were not her fault. How could

she help being married to a forger or
thrown on the stage for a subsistence),
and naturally, I suppose, she argues that
If there Is no need to disclose them,
It will be the happier for both that
you should remain In Ignorance. It Is
not strict honour, you know, according
to the code of rules men set down for
one another  but you mustn't judge a
woman's morals as you would those of our
sex. They are not reared under the
same method. Besides, I conclude she
was In love, and everything may go to
the winds for a woman when she's once
thoroughly in love.'

Charlie, what are you driving at ? '
demanded Bernard, with open eyes.

Nothing, my dear boy, unless you will
answer me this question. Do you still
love Phyllida Moss?'

A look of the deepest agony passed
over the parson's face, such a look as we
may suppose on the features of a man

wrestling with God for pardon for some
mortal sin.

'Love her!' he ejaculated. 'God knows
I love her with every fibre of my wretched
heart. Oh, Anderson, that is the worst
of it. I feel that I shall never cease to
love her to my dying day.'

No, Bernard, that is the best and not
the worst of it. If these are your feelings,
the sooner you are re-united to that woman
the better.'

Hope flashed into Freshfield's haggard
face, as the sun suddenly breaks out from
behind a murky cloud. His misery had
been that re-union with Phyllida seemed
impossible, and when a friend suggested to
him what he had not dared to whisper to
himself, it seemed as if the idea would
suffocate him. He pulled at his round
collar as though he were choking, and
rising from his seat threw open the
library window. It was already dark as
night, but the air was full of sound and

the baying of the dogs  those dogs she had
so dearly loved  was borne distinctly from
the adjacent kennel. Bernard leaned out of
the open casement for a moment to recover
himself, then he said in a strangely altered
voice, there was so much fearful joy in
it, 

But how  how could that be, Anderson
? If all my wishes tended to forgive
her  '

What the d  1 have you got to forgive
? ' exclaimed Anderson suddenly.
She is the victim of an error, or twenty
errors if you like. Into nineteen of which
you led her, and all you have to do is to
follow that girl  your wife, mind you 
the woman whom you made your wife
by love, and confidence, and union, more
surely than any bands of law can do It 
and satisfy the demands of your country
and your conscience by marrying her over
again. If you do not, Bernard  if you
cast her off now, after having nurtured

her in your bosom, to wander where she
will  I shall look on you as no better
than a seducer.' And in his excitement
Anderson walked up and down the room
like a caged lion.

But my profession  my people,'
stammered Bernard. ' Can I bring her
here again to reign in Bluemere, where
every labourer's child will have heard her
history ? '

Don't bring her here, then ; you are
an independent man. Take her anywhere
that seems best to you. You
have not married your people, but you
have married her, and your first duty is
towards her. What do you suppose it
will benefit you to appear before the
Almighty with five thousand converts
shining like jewels in your crown,
whilst the one soul you have sworn to
protect and cherish is damned for everlasting,
through the cowardice which
would prevent your bearing the shame

of your mutual error before the
world ? '

Damned! my Phyllida! Oh, God
forbid cried Bernard, with the tears
running down his cheeks. ' May He
condemn me to the very nethermost
hell if I neglect any means by which
to save her soul. But, Charlie, I took
the vows of ordination as well as those
of marriage. Can I keep both ? '

I see no obstacle to it, old friend.
It may not be advisable to continue your
work here, but there is work waiting for
you all over the world, wherever there
are fellow - creatures to be taught and
souls to be saved.'

Charlie, you have given me fresh life,'
cried the parson, seizing his friend's hand ;
this is what I longed to do, but feared
lest the desire alone was a temptation of
the devil. But you have cleared the
mists from my brain. I can see God
once more, not as the stern judge, condemning

my folly, but the loving Father
who pities it, and holds out His hand
once more for me to grasp, as I grasp
yours.'

Keep fast hold of it, Bernard, and
you cannot go wrong. And now, if you
will take my advice, you will send me
back to Blue Mount to break the intelligence
to your mother.'

Will it be necessary to tell her ? Laura
thought not.'

Laura, in her love for you, thinks only
of what will save you pain. I am sure it
is necessary, Bernard, for two reasons. One
is because concealment must lead to deception,
and deception is wrong ; the other,
that in order to thoroughly clear your wife's
character, everybody must know of the
second marriage. You cannot keep this
matter an entire secret. Little things will
leak out here and there ; and unless you
are perfectly open, the next thing you will
hear is, that you were never married at

all. Let me tell Mrs Freshfield that as
you have discovered that your wife was
a divorced woman at the time of your
marriage, you consider it necessary to .have
the ceremony performed over again, and
she has left Bluemere until it can be accomplished.
This will be the truth (if not
all the truth), and will be putting, I think,
as good a construction upon the matter as
we can.'

Charlie, you are a true, good friend ! '
exclaimed Bernard. ' Your visit has raised
me from the very depths of human misery
to the hope of renewed happiness. My
Phyllida, my darling ! Is it possible that
she may be mine again  mine by the laws
of man, and with the smile of God upon
our union ? Oh, Charlie, it is too much 
I cannot realise it ! '

Don't try to do anything but act,
old fellow., You've been realising too
much already, it strikes me ; you look ten
years older in a couple of days. A

change of work will be the best thing for
you.'

'What shall I do first, Charlie? It is you
who must advise me.'

Go up to town to your friend Cole.
Tell him of your intentions, and get him
to help you in your search. I fancy he
is more used to that sort of work than
you are.'

True, true ; and he is the best of
fellows, though he did deal me such a
terrible blow. I will start for London by
the seven o'clock train ; and you  what
will you do, old chum ? '

I shall return to Blue Mount, and
try to smooth matters over for the old
lady.'

Give her my love, Charlie, and explain
why I felt myself unable to carry the news
.myself.'

I will explain everything ; never fear.'

You are the very best of fellows,' said

Bernard earnestly. ' What can I ever do
to repay you ? '

Some day I may put your gratitude to
the test,' replied Anderson, laughing, as he
bid his friend farewell.

RS Tenfold was not staying
with Mrs Pinner, although the
housekeeper was quite correct
in saying she had gone there. But in the
afternoon of the day succeeding PhylHdas
mysterious flight, and whilst Bernard was
still in town, she had received a note by
post, a faint scrawl in pencil, half washed
out by tears, in which her cousin had told
her partly the truth,  had said, at least, that
she had disgraced Mr Freshfield beyond all
remedy, and should never return to Briar-wood
again. And then Mrs Penfold had
felt that the rectory was no longer the place

for her, and that it would be more delicate
to go at once before the parson came home.
So she had packed up her small belongings
and thrown herself on the hospitality of her
sister. Perhaps, if Mrs Pinner had sympathised
with her anxiety about Phyllida, or
shown the least compassion for the unfortunate
girl, cast upon the world for the
second time, friendless and alone, Mrs Pen-fold
might have prolonged her stay in Blue-mere
until she had ascertained what position
the Freshfields intended to take up with regard
to her cousin's behaviour. But Mrs
Pinner s condemnation was so entirely without
limit, that Mrs Penfold made up her
mind to return to Gatehead the very next
day.

Be good enough, Maria,' Mrs Pinner had
said, when her sister tried to make some
excuse for the absent girl on account of her
defective training, * be good enough never
to mention that disgraceful creature's name
in my hearing again. We cannot touch

pitch without being defiled, and I feel as if
it would be a long time before my house
and surroundings recovered the contamination
they must have contracted from her
presence here.'

But Mrs Penfold had a mother's heart.
It was quite a mistake on the part of nature
not to have given her children, for she would
have loved them tenderly, and her thoughts
and prayers, poor old soul, were with her
erring little cousin night and day.

Indeed, Charlotte,' she replied, ' I think
you are too hard on her. Of course I
cannot entirely understand her reasons for
leaving Briarwood from the very incoherent
note she sent me, but I can see that she
thinks it her duty to go, and that she is
very, very miserable in going ; and a woman
who does her duty, although it makes her
wretched, cannot be altogether bad.'

Stuff and nonsense,' said Mrs Pinner.
You always were a simpleton, Maria, but
I hardly thought you could be so silly at

your age. Do you suppose it's likely she's
gone alone ? Did you ever hear of a married
woman running away by herself ? You
must be a born fool to believe it.'

Good gracious me, Charlotte, what do
you mean ? Who do you suppose she would
take with her ? Besides, I am certain she
went alone. There were only Mr Freshfield
and Mr Cole and the servants in the rectory
at the time, and I can answer for it they all
stayed behind.'

Mrs Pinner gazed at her sister with the
supreme contempt.

'Well, if this comes of letting lodgings,'
she began, when the other interrupted
her, 

Do you mean to insinuate,' she said indignantly,
'that Phyllida has disgraced us
all by running away with a mail ? Oh,
Charlotte, you ought to be ashamed of yourself.
And when you know how devoted
she was to Mr Freshfield, how can you
say so wicked and cruel a thing ? '

Hoity tolty, ' cried Mrs Pinner, ' here's
a flare up about nothing. What do you
suppose all the village are saying about it ?
Annie Warren tells me there is hardly a
cottage where they have not heard the
whole story, and put their own construction
on it. Run away alone, indeed ; a likely
story. No one else will believe it if
you do  not if she came back tomorrow
with that smooth hypocritical face of her's
and swore she'd only been on a round of
parochial visits.'

'But who could she run away with ? '
gasped Mrs Penfold, staggering under the
unexpected assertion.

Who, indeed ? As if my lady hadn't
cunning enough to keep all her affairs secret.
You know how close she was from the
beginning. Don't ask who is it, but who
may it not be. Any one, I should say, who
would take her. Mr Anderson, perhaps,
for want of a better. Those Papists will
do anything if they're not found out, and

Mr Anderson Is one of the slyest looking
men I ever saw.'

Charlotte !' exclaimed Mrs Penfold, looking
her sister full in the face, ' you are the
very wickedest woman I ever saw.'

What!' screamed Mrs Pinner.

I repeat it, the wickedest woman I ever
saw. You go to church twice every Sunday
and read your Bible, and say your prayers,
and you are always talking of religious things
and using sacred names ; but you haven't
got as much charity in you as a grain of
mustard seed. You made the worst instead of
the best of poor Phyllida from the very beginning,
and only left off abusing her when
she became Mr Freshfield's wife, and there
was everything to gain by keeping friends
with her. And now that she is under a
cloud again, poor little soul, though you
know no more of the facts of the case than
I do, you suspect her of the grossest iniquity
without any better foundation than what
your unworthy suspicions supply you with.

VOL. III. I

But, In my opinion, you are much more to
blame than she Is (since you have enjoyed so
many more privileges), and, instead of reviling
her, you had better go upstairs and
go down on your knees and pray to Heaven
to change your hard heart and make you
more charitable to your fellow-creatures.'

During this harangue Mrs Pinner's
face had gradually assumed the appearance
of an infuriated turkey cock. Her
wattles (if I may be allowed to use such
an expression for a lady's double chin)
had turned purple, her forehead was
crimson, and every poppy In her cap
shook, as though under the breath of a
tornado.

Maria Penfold,' she ejaculated as soon
as she could speak, ' leave my house ! '

'You need not take the trouble of
turning me out, Charlotte. I wouldn't
stay here if you paved my room with
gold. No, and I wouldn't change places
with you (although you do look down on

me for letting lodgings), not if you were
a duchess in your own right'

Leave my house ! ' repeated Mrs
Pinner. ' I will listen to no more insults
at your hands.'

And you never will was Mrs Pen-fold's
parting shot, ' for unless your hard
heart is softened, and you begin to
practise the religion which at present
you only talk about, I shall take good
care not to see you again,' and with that
she sent out for the only vehicle to be
hired in Bluemere, and was landed safely
by the train in Gatehead the same evening.

But she had the consolation of receiving
an unfeignedly hearty welcome on
her return. Miss Annadale, who

scarcely ever stirred out of her own
apartments, came half way down stairs
to greet her landlady, and Captain Barclay
insisted on her sharing his roast chicken
and mushrooms, and drinking a glass
of Madeira with him in his snug little

parlour, Instead of sitting down to a
solitary meal.

First-rate wine that, Mrs Penfold,'
said the old sailor, as he handed her a
bumper of the rich coloured Madeira ;
drink it down. It will do you good,
I promise you. That Madeira made
four voyages round the Cape in my own
ship, Mrs Penfold, so I ought to know its
quality, if no one else does.'

And under the influence of the
Madeira, and Captain Barclay's kindness,
the poor woman unbosomed her griefs to
him, and confided her fears with regard
to her young cousin.

'Think of that poor young creature,
captain, wandering about the world
alone  and so pretty, too. What will
become of her ? I assure you I haven't
slept a wink since it happened, for wondering
what I can do to find her again.
For whether she's right or wrong, she's
too young to be left to herself, and I

must have her back at Gatehead, as sure
as my name is Maria Penfold.'

Mrs Penfold,' exclaimed the old sailor,
extending his brown hand across the table
for her acceptance, ' you're a good woman,
madam !  a good woman, never mind
who the other may be. Let that pretty
girl with the big brown eyes go about
the world alone, without a friend or protector
? By gad ! no. Why, I'd protect
her myself, if there was no one else todo
it. But I don't see how you are to
get at her, my dear, unless you advertise
in the papers.'

Why, of course, captain, that is the very
thing,' cried Mrs Penfold, jumping up from
her chair ; 'and I'll have the advertisement
written out and sent to the post-office this
very evening. I suppose I'd better insert
it in the Telegraph and Standard!

And the Times, my dear, the Times'
added the captain, who was used to becoming
rather affectionate in his speech after dinner.

And the Times, of course,' replied Mrs
Penfold. ' What a help you are to me,
captain. Whatever should I do without
you ? '

And when you have dispatched your
advertisement, you will come back again,
won't you ? ' said Captain Barclay.

Well, captain, if you really require me,'
replied Mrs Penfold bashfully.

Really require you, madam. I really
require you every hour of the day. You
don't know what my life has been during
your visit to Bluemere  torture, Mrs Pen-fold,
torture. Sarah has been very attentive
 I have no complaint to make of Sarah ;
but she is not, and she cannot be, yourself ;
that is her misfortune, Mrs Penfold, and not
her fault. I have missed you every day
and everywhere. My bed has not felt
the same, and my parlour has not looked
the same, and this chicken, for instance 
although Sarah has done her best with it,
I am sure, her very best  yet this chicken

is not browned in the way pott would have
browned it ; eh, Mrs Penfold ? '

Well, you see, captain, it is impossible
to put grey heads on green shoulders ; however,
I am home once more to attend to all
your little comforts, and not likely to leave
you again in a hurry.'

Not if I know it, madam, not if I know
it,' replied Captain Barclay, with a facetious
wink at his landlady.

Well, really, captain, I don't see how
you are to prevent it ; not if my mind were
bent upon going, for instance.'

'There are ways and means, Mrs Penfold,
ways and means,' said the captain, with
another wink.

Meanwhile, we must return to Blue
Mount. Charles Anderson only waited
until Bernard was well out of the way to
break the intelligence of her son's disappointment
to Mrs Freshfield, and do
what he could to comfort her, the poor
old lady's grief and shame were but too

genuine. A divorced woman was, in her
eyes, quite as ineligible a subject for the
marriage contract as a wife would be, and
Anderson did not attempt to refute any of
her arguments on this part of the matter.
Only he kept on repeating the fact that
Phyllida's first husband was now dead,
and therefore according to the laws of
God and man there could be no possible
obstacle to her re-union with Bernard. But
to his astonishment he found that Mrs
Freshfield did not take this view of the
subject at all, and was strongly opposed
to the Idea of her son having anything
more to do with the woman who, in her
opinion, had betrayed him. This mother,
who had reared her child in the strictest
principles of her own religion ; who had dedicated
him from his birth (as it were) to
the Lord and His service, and who (Anderson
would have supposed) could have but
one desire in her heart at this crisis,
namely, that Bernard should act up to

0/

his profession, and do what was right ;
commenced arguing against the advisability
of a second marriage on the most
worldly grounds.

But it would be perfect madness,' she
said, when Anderson confided to her the
motive that had taken her son to town.
'Surely, Mr Anderson, you never gave
Bernard such advice as that ? By the
Lord's mercy he has been delivered from
the bonds of a strange woman, though, if
he had only waited to consult his poor
mother on the subject, he never would
have married a person of whom one knew
positively nothing ; however, he was
headstrong, and had his own way, and
now that his evil has been turned into
good, I consider it would be flying into
the face of Providence to re-forge the
chains that have been struck off him.'

Do you mean to say then, Mrs Fresh -
field, that you would advise Bernard not
to marry his wife again . '

Certainly, I would, Mr Anderson. She
Is not his wife. You have said so yourself.
She Is only a most disreputable person 
a disgrace to her sex  a  '

Oh, pardon me, I never said so much
as that, because I do not think it ; but,
even If It were the case, I am not sure
but what It would still be Bernard's duty
to try and reform her by the only means
in his power.'

Well, I consider your ideas of duty
are far-fetched, Mr Anderson, and I am
surprised to hear a member of your Church
upholding the sanctity of marriage with a
divorce. I am no friend to Popery  '

No, Indeed, you need not tell me that,
Mrs Freshfield.'

But I do at least agree with it in one
particular, and that is, that had this woman's
divorce from her first husband been ever
so regular, it should not have permitted her
to contract an alliance with my poor misguided
son.'

And I am not likely to gainsay you,
Mrs Freshfield. I say nothing of the past,
except that it is as sad as sad can be, and
I feel deeply for my dear old friend ; bat
I think that his duty now lies straight before
him, and that is to make the woman
to whom he is already united by ties of
the tenderest affection his wife by law.'

Well, I am surprised to hear you say
so,' replied the mother coldly. ' I was
aware, of course, that poor Bernard was
very much infatuated with her when he
believed her to be a good and pure woman
(though why he should have squandered a
small fortune in decking her out in pearls
and satin far above her station in life I
never could understand), but I should have
thought and hoped that, his eyes once opened
to her iniquity and deceit, a son of mine
would have turned from her with the loathing
and disgust which she deserves.'

Oh no, Mrs Freshfield, don't wrong
your own nature by saying so,' pleaded

Anderson. ' What ! turn from those we love
when they most need our counsel and assistance
?  look the other way when our dear
ones, however erring, lift their tearful eyes
to ours ?  shut the door upon the repentant
sinner who is longing to receive her
pardon from our lips ? That is not the
way a merciful God deals with our trespasses
 blessed be His holy name!' said
Anderson reverently, ' or we should indeed
be the most forlorn and miserable of creatures.
What should you say, madam, if
your heavenly Judge dealt with your sins
as you would have Bernard deal with
hers ? '

Now, although Mrs Freshfield called herself
a miserable sinner every Sunday, and
perhaps two or three times in the week to
boot, she did not in the least believe that
she was so, and Charles Anderson's straightforward
question considerably ruffled her
dignity. That a man, and a young man,
and above all other things a Catholic young

man, should presume to talk to her in such
a manner greatly offended her ; and she
showed the offence in her answer, 

If you intend to compare me with the
person we were speaking of, Mr Anderson,
we had better drop the subject ; for
I cannot see that the two cases tally in the
slightest degree. I do not need you to
remind me that there is forgiveness in
heaven for all who sin on earth, but I do
not see how it is to be attained by setting
this depraved young woman again in the
position which she has polluted and disgraced,
and when Bernard tight have
secured one of the most estimable and
pious young ladies for his helpmeet  a
girl with the oldest blood of Scotland in
her veins, and descended from a line of
kings  one who would have conducted herself
in all things as the wife of a minister
should do, and been an honour and blessing
to the whole family.'

Yes, it is unfortunate, doubtless, that

he could not see with your eyes ; but these
are matters, Mrs Freshfield, in which men
will and ought to judge for themselves.
An union entered into from any feelings,
however pure  except those of entire and
disinterested love  cannot be a real union.
I have seen men marry, apparently from
the best of motives  for conscience' sake 
or for the good of others, but however
unselfishly entered into, unless it is from
love alone, marriage is no longer a sacrament,
but sinks to the level of a legal
contract.'

And would you call my poor son's
marriage with this dreadful girl a sacrament,
Mr Anderson?'

I do indeed, Mrs Freshfield, and would
continue to do so, even if he did not marry
her over again. His heart is knit up in
hers, as hers is no less in his, and that
constitutes a true marriage.'

I don't believe it,' interposed the old
lady, trembling with excitement. * My poor

son's eyes were dazzled by her beauty till
he could not distinguish right from wrong,
and I consider that any one who persuades
him to take that woman back again, is his
worst enemy, and not his friend.'

And you would wish Bernard never to
see her again then, nor to inquire after
her fate ? '

Decidedly I would. He has taken a
wife from among the daughters of Heth as
the rebellious son of Rebecca did, and you
see what has come of it. He ought to
thank Providence, who has helped him to
escape so great a danger, and not fly in
its face by courting it a second time.'

And you would consider him free to
marry again if he felt inclined to do so ? '
continued the young man.

Of course he is free. What claim can
she bring against him ? Oh, if Bernard
would only see it in the same light, and
put some dear good girl in the vacant
place ! '

You think the divorce he has obtained
from his present wife Is more legal then, than
the one she got from her former husband ? '

Oh, there Is no question of divorce,'
replied the old lady, tossing her head ina
nervous manner ; ' she never was his
wife, and I would rather discuss the painful
subject no longer, Mr Anderson.'

Very good, madam. I have done Bernard's
bidding, and therefore may take my
leave of you. But I am glad I do not
share your sentiments on the question of
right and wrong ; neither do I think they
would receive endorsement from above.'

And Anderson quitted Blue Mount, leaving
Mrs Freshfield with the very uncomfortable
sensation of having been brought
to task, and considerably worsted in the
encounter. Laura was not present at this
interview. Had she been it would not
have proceeded with so little interruption,
for this young lady coincided with the
opinions of Mr Anderson on all subjects

in a remarkable degree. But she received
the full benefit of it afterwards.

Such an extraordinary manner in which
to be addressed by a young man of his
age  not so old as my own son by a
couple of years  and a Papist into the
bargain ! ' exclaimed Mrs Freshfield, as she
retailed the circumstances to Laura. * I
wonder what the world will come to next ?
but Mr Anderson may rest assured of one
thing, that I know my duty, and I will
do it. I should have liked dear Miss
Janet to have been present at our conversation
this morning. I know she will
entirely coincide with the view / take of
this disgraceful affair.'

Oh, mamma dear,' cried Laura, * don't
say anything to that old woman about it.
What business is it of hers ? And of
course if she hears it, Bella and the laird
will hear it also, and we shall be obliged
to listen to all their comments on the
matter. It is not delicate, mamma, it is

VOL. III. K

purely a family misfortune  which we
should keep entirely to ourselves for Berne's
sake, if not for our own. And do oblige
me by putting off the visit of these Muck-keeps,
at all events for the present. They
asked themselves, so it could easily be
managed without giving them offence.'

Mrs Freshfield regarded her daughter
solemnly.

And you would seriously ask me, Laura,'
she said, ' in this, the most unfortunate crisis
of my life  when the Hand of Chastening is
so visibly upon us  to deprive myself of
the counsel and advice of my very best and
most valued friends ? '

Oh, mamma, they are not your best friends,
believe me. Miss Janet is only a canting
old hypocrite, and you have never seen the
laird at all. If he is anything like his sister
though, I hope he will cut his visit short.'

Cut his visit short ! ' reiterated Mrs
Freshfield, with much the same look that
might have been expected of her had her

daughter uttered a blasphemy ; ' is that the
way, I ask you, Laura, to speak of a man
who has spent his life in doing good to his
fellow-creatures, who has expatriated himself
for their sakes, and relinquished the society
dearest to him, in order that he might bring
souls grovelling on their knees for pardon.'

Well, mamma, if he has done all this, it is
very good of him, but we have only Miss
Janet's word for it, you know. And in any
case, we don't want him to grovel after souls
here  unless you have any particular work
for him in that way yourself,' said Laura
brightly.

But Mrs Freshfield was in no humour
to respond to brightness  however innocent.

I shall riot put off my friends' visit,' she
said sternly ; ' neither shall I conceal from
them the misfortune which has fallen upon
us. They will advise me, I am sure, to do
what is best in the matter for my unhappy
son, whom your friend, Mr Anderson, appears
bent upon leading to his ruin.'

I don't know why you should emphasise
Mr Anderson particularly as my friend,
mamma,' returned Laura, with a suspiciously
bright colour ; ' but I am not ashamed
of him if he Is, and I do not believe that
he will give Berne any advice but what
is good and proper.'

'Wait and see,' was Mrs Freshfield's
oracular reply, for she had a strong suspicion
that if she told Miss Laura what she meant
by ' ruin,' that the wordy warfare just ended
with Charles Anderson would have to be
fought all over again, so she wisely held her
tongue. The arrival of the Muckheeps the
day after was a grand event in her life, for,
naturally, poor Phyllida's history had to be
retailed from the beginning to the end, 
from the first time they. met her with Mrs
Pinner at Briarwood, to the last tlme she
had sat in that very chair dear Miss Janet
was then occupying (just as if she had been
an honest woman,' as Mrs Freshfield indignantly
added), and the two ladies wept and

wailed and groaned and condemned together
over the reputation which they considered
dead, just (as Laura had prophesied) like
two dogs tearing a carcase to pieces, and
determined not to leave a shred without the
mark of their teeth upon it. But the Laird
o' Muckheepbefore whom Miss Janet (and,
consequently, Mrs Freshfield) mutely bowed,
as though he had been one of the kings from
whom he boasted his descent  took little or
no part in the discussion.

He was a very different man from what
Laura had expected to see him. She had
pictured the laird in fancy to be very like
his sister,  in fact, an old woman in ' breeks,'
but, on the contrary, he did not resemble
her in the slightest degree. He was a large-boned,
muscular man, very plain, with red
hair, a dirty complexion, small ferrety eyes,
and a bottle nose. He was, moreover, very
silent, and allowed Miss Janet to do all the
talking, although he never deprecated the
fulsome praise she lavished on him, but

allowed himself to be worshipped with the
most perfect nonchalance, taking it apparently
as much his right as some ugly old
Chinese god set up in a joss house might
do, and with about the same amount of
interest in his worshippers. Laura, whose
eyes were everywhere at the same moment,
noticed that whenever Miss Janet lauded
her brother's goodness and self-denial,
the laird would' wink and blink, and
become restless and uneasy, changing the
subject as soon as he could, and sometimes
in the most abrupt manner ; but
as he never denied the praise she gave
him, the girl attributed his manner to his
modesty.

Vainly to think, Mrs Frail-field,' the old
Scotchwoman would cry, ' that this gude
mon has ex-penetrated himsel' fra his ain
land far mair than twenty yair in order to
been-fit his perishing fellow-creatures.'

Noo, noo, Janet,' the laird, who spoke
as broad Scotch as his sister, replied, * it's

mickle I have dune. Let us tarn the subject.'


'Mickle !' screamed Miss Janet, * d'ye ca
it a mickle thing, mon, to bide wa' fra your
ain for the space o' twenty yair, an' to pair-se
a' that wheels in preaching and praying and
striving for the pair sails that would'
strive for themselves. Why, it's roost the
laird's wairk that ye're gee-even up your
carry life for, and it's a greet re-ward will
be laid up for ye in heaven.'

Noo, noo, Janet, not me whole life.
Ye forget that I vee-sited the castle ten
airs ago,' said the laird, with a modest
declaimer of so much merit.

Brother, I maun hae me ain way, and
Mrs Frail-field here will uphold me.
It's a gran' wairk, and a blessed ane that
you've even yair time to, an' we should
a' be proud to claim ye as a friend or a
relation. Bella  bar-ck ! '

'Yes, indeed, dear Miss Muckheep,' chimed
in Mrs Freshfield approvingly. ' We should

indeed be proud, and we are (at least I can
speak for myself) to welcome the laird back
to England. Twenty years ! it is indeed a
long time, though none too long to devote
to so noble a cause. And were your efforts
much blessed out there, dear sir ? Did you
bring many poor lost souls back into the
fold?'

Yes, yes ; I had pretty gude success,
madam, altho' a mon should speak of
what he has dune.'

Hoot, brother,' interposed Miss Janet,
but if ye air a burning and a shining
height, ye mauna pet yourself wonder the
beet, bit upon a carn-dle-steek, that sae
ye may geese height to the whole loose.
Diana ye haud wi' me, Mrs Frail-field '. '

Indeed, indeed, I do, although your
estimable brother's modesty renders his
worth all the greater. Ah, we have been
in great need of a missionary to do the
good work here, I can assure you. What
effect might not the laird's influence have

had upon that poor misguided soul at the
rectory ? '

Do ye speak o' your sonne the minister,
Mrs Frail-field, or o' the lizzy he pet op
their as his wife ? '

Laura, who had been silence boiling over
this conversation, here burst in with a remonstrance,


Please to remember, Miss Janet, that the
lady you speak of is about to become my
brother's wife by law.'

No, no, Laura, I trust not  not if / can
help it,' interposed her mother.

You will not be able to help it, mamma ;
and I think the less the subject is discussed
with strangers the better.'

'Hoot, what is the lassie steering at?'
demanded Miss Janet. 'Ye cinna shoo
muckle re-speech for your mither to inter-root
her after sic a fashion, Meet Lichfield.'


I desire to show respect for my brother
and his wife, madam, which is hardly to

be attained by discussing their private
affairs.'

Laura, how can you speak so to Miss
Janet, who, you must know, is in my entire
confidence on this unhappy subject ? We
have just been consulting together on the
best course for me to pursue in the matter,
and I have made up my mind to follow
your poor brother to London tomorrow.'

Bernard will be exceedingly annoyed if
you do so, mamma. He is quite old enough
to manage his own business, and you will
gain nothing by putting your finger in
the pie.'

Petting your finger in the poy ? I
cinna oonderstan' your daughter's mode of
speaking, Mrs Frail-field. I never raised
or Bella after sic a fashion ; it wou'dna
become a teddy o' Muckheep at a'.'

No, indeed,' replied her hostess fretfully
; ' nor any lady in the world, I should
imagine. Laura's fast mode of speaking
shocks me as much as it can do yourself.

But to return to my poor, erring son.
What a consolation it would be to me if
you and the dear laird (who has had so
much experience in winning back lost souls
to the right way) would accompany me on
my sad errand tomorrow. It seems almost
too much to ask from you, but I shall
need both support and guidance on the
journey.'

If you are resolved to go, mamma,'
said Laura, ' for heaven's sake go alone ! '

Young teddy,' exclaimed Miss Janet,
ye cinna ken the rest way to speak to
sech as air abuse yairsel'. Your gude
mither is wa' to Loon-don to try and
breeng your pair brother back to a sense
of his re-sensibilities ; and if I can be
of any cairn-fort or consolation to heron
the pair-ney, she maun depend upon
my company.'

Ah, you are indeed too good to me,'
sighed Mrs Freshfield. 'What should I do
without your kind sympathy and counsel ?

If I can gain an interview with my poor
Bernard before his artful friend Mr Anderson
 a Jesuit in disguise, I verily believe,
Miss Janet  persuades him to sacrifice himself
afresh, and can bring him back with
us to Blue Mount, all may yet be well.
The dear laird's advice would be invaluable
to him at this critical period. He
could so ably point out to my poor boy
the way to induce that young person to
abandon her depraved and godless life without
going to the length of marrying her
over again. An asylum is the place for
her  some nice, respectable asylum where
she will be plainly shown the depths of her
wickedness and sin.'

Here Laura rose hastily, and gathering
her work together, left the room.

My poor child does not like this subject,'
continued Mrs Freshfield, with a compassionate
shake of the head. ' I have
trained her carefully, dear Miss Janet, and
with many prayers, but her heart, I regret

to say, remains hard and stubborn to this
day. I believe that she even goes so far
as to regret her brother's merciful escape
from the thralls of the bond woman.'

Ay ! ' ejaculated Miss Janet. ' Ye
should seest pet me brother upon her in
prayer ; her hair wou'dna' lang remain
laird nor stubborn after that. Mony and
mony a hair has he subdued and melted
by his fair-your, till it coudna' weep eno.'
Ay !  but he's a peen-ache of the temple
before wheel nothing can stan' upreet'

And do you think I might really ask
him to accompany us to town tomorrow ?
It would be an immense favour; but oh,
so gratefully appreciated. I cannot believe
that Bernard will be able to resist his eloquence
; however, he may be inclined to walk
in the downward path.'

Oh, the laird will go with us, cinna fear,
Mrs Frail-field. He maun aye be wheel
the gude wairk is going' on ; and if wards o'
his can tarn the pair sinner fra' the beer-or

of his ways, he will be turned, ye may
reest assured o' that.'

Indeed, indeed, I do. I feel as if an
angel were going with us to point out the
right thing to do, and the right word to
say at the right time,' cried Mrs Freshfield
enthusiastically, as she clasped the freckled
and hairy hand of the Laird o' Muckheep
between her own.

He turned aside with a conscious air and
a few muttered words of acquiescence ; but
his hostess was gazing at him through rose-coloured
spectacles, and attributed his confusion
entirely to the humility of his pious
soul. And the next day, therefore, to
Laura's intense annoyance, her mother set
out for London, supported on either side
by a Muckheep, like sympathising friends
upholding the chief mourner at a funeral.

How angry Berne will be by their interference,'
she thought. ' It would have
been bad enough if mamma had elected to
go to him alone ; but accompanied by that

pair of canting old hypocrites, she will drive
him nearly crazy, and when he has so much
to trouble him, poor darling.'

She was full of such thoughts when a
servant brought her word that Mr Anderson
was in the drawing-room. She flew
to meet him, in a manner most undignified
for a young lady of two-and-twenty, and
with a bloom upon her cheeks that looked
suspiciously as though she where uncommonly
glad to see him. Perhaps Charles
Anderson guessed the truth ; for as Laura
ran up to greet him, he grasped her outstretched
hands and kissed her straight
upon the lips. She drew backward with a
face of crimson.

Oh, Charlie, you shouldn't have done
that. You never did it before.'

Perhaps not ; but there must be a beginning
to all things, you know, Laura.'

Not to bad things, though.'

Was that a bad thing then, Laura '.
Tell me.'

'Well, it can't be quite right, can it?'

'Why not?'

Oh, I don't know, but it isn't the usual
mode of greeting between friends, Charlie.'

But we are not friends.'

Aren't we ? ' she asked, with professed
innocence. ' I thought we were the very
best.'

So we are ; but something more, I hope,
Laura. I love you dearly, and I am sure
you know it.'

I have hoped it, Charlie.'

That's a brave woman to tell the truth
at once. Then it's all right between us ? '

Between tts  oh yes ! but, Charlie, have
you ever thought of mamma ?'

Charlie laughed.

Rather too often for my peace of mind,
Laura. She doesn't like me ; I am aware
of that'

I don't think she has any personal objection
to you, dear ; but it's the religion.
Mamma is frightfully bigoted, you know.

I really believe that she imagines there is
not the slightest chance of your going to
heaven.'

And what do pott think, my Laura ? '
Oh, Charlie, I think you are everything
that is best. I only wish I had the same
assurance of salvation as yourself. To give
up one's family and friends, as you have
done, and all one's prospects in life for the
sake of your faith, what more could any
man do to prove his sincerity ' It is a
grander sacrifice than even the martyrs
made of old. They gave up this life to
gain a better ; but you have given up all
the comforts of the world, and chosen to
walk through it without luxury or love, in
order that you may remain true to yourself;
and I have honoured you for it, dear
Charlie, above all other men, ever since
Bernard told me the story.'

Don't make too much of it, Laura. If
you could guess the consolations I have
received in exchange, you would not think

VOL. III. L

it such a sacrifice. And now, if I am to
have your love into the bargain, I shall be
more than happy, onl)' you mustn't forget
that I am a poor man. My father has cut
me out of his will, and will not even hear
my name mentioned in his presence. I
have only the work of my two hands to
offer my wife as a support'

That is not of the slightest consequence
said Laura indifferently, ' for I have money
of my own as well as Berne. What / am
thinking of is the prejudice of your father
and my mother. Charlie, isn't it extraordinary
that people who profess to love
God with their whole hearts, and desire His
glory above all other things, should quarrel
with any form by which their fellow-creatures
strive to serve Him too ?'

It is almost incredible, Laura, yet we
know it is true. But I cannot call such
people Christians, even though they are my
own flesh and blood. They are pious dogs
in the manger : quite satisfied with their own

position, and ready to snarl at any one who
attempts to dispute It. I suppose It really
did the ox more crowd to nibble at a few
straws than it did the dog to lie on them ;
but since he had no stomach for straw himself,
he was too blind and selfish to see
that the ox needed it. If my friends and
relations have no eyes for the beauty of the
Catholic Church, and no ears for the sublimity
of her doctrine, I pity them and I
pray for them ; but I do not blame them,
for the mind must be spiritually opened to
view It as I do, only I cannot understand
why they must needs quarrel because they
cannot agree with me.'

Do you pity me, Charlie . ' whispered
Laura, sidling up to him.

A little, because you are going to fall
into my clutches. Do you pity yourself?'

She shook her head.

I am quite happy as I am. I do not
know what I may become as the years roll
on, but at present it seems to me as if life

could never be fuller of Interest for me than
it is. I have had Berne ever since I could
remember, and now I have got you, and
I cannot tell which is the best of you ; he
as a Protestant or you as a Catholic. And
I hardly know which of you I love the best
either,' she added more shyly, ' nor, if I
had to give up one, which I should choose.
So you must let me be the link between
you, Charlie, that when you look at me you
may both remember that, as I bind you
together by the names of wife and sister,
so the great Christian Churches should be
bound together In brotherly love by the
one Holy Name which alone can save us
all.'

Anderson drew Laura closer to his side,
and repeated the operation with which he
had greeted her entrance, and this time
she made no objection, although the tears
were shining in her bright eyes.

Oh, Charlie, I am so happy ! '

'So am I, dearest; and you will really

marry me then, spite of all your mother may
say ? '

Mamma will come round after a time.
She is generally open to persuasion from
Berne or me. You know how strongly
set she was at first against poor Phyllida?'

That reminds me, darling, that I came
down here this morning with news of Bernard.
Let us find Mrs Freshfield and tell
her at once.'

Laura's face fell.

Oh, I had quite forgotten. You put
everything out of my head, Charlie ; mamma,
I am sorry to say, has just started for
London to see my brother. I begged and
entreated her not to go, for I am sure her
visit will annoy him, but she would not
listen to anything I said ; and what is more,
she has taken those two Muckheeps with
her  the old laird and his sister  and you
know how Bernard dislikes Miss Janet. I
am sure something very disagreeable will
happen when they meet.'

Anderson became as rave as herself.

I am exceedingly sorry to hear this,
Laura, and I think, under the circumstances,
it was the most ill-advised course your
mother could take ; and this morning, too,
of all days.'

Why not this morning, Charlie ? ' asked
Laura in alarm. ' What has happened to
make this day worse than others ? '

Nothing but what will make you glad,
Laura, but, at the same time, will render
Mrs Freshfield's visit rather malaprop.
Bernard has found his wife again.'

Oh ! Charlie, why didn't you tell me
that before ? ' cried Laura, bursting into
tears of pleasure and excitement. ' Phyllis
home again ! Phyllida with Bernard !
My dear, dear sister found ! Oh, I am so
grateful, so happy ! How can I repay you
for bringing me such joyful news ? '

Kiss me again,' suggested the practical
Charlie.

I willy exclaimed Laura determinately.

as she put both her arms round her lover's
neck, and Hated her burning face to his. ' I
would give you a hundred kisses, Charlie,
if you wished it for making me so happy.'

All right, Laura ; go on.'

No, no, we mustn't be foolish. But
tell me all about it. Where did he find
her ? Where are they now ? How soon
can they be married again ? '

Gently, Laura, you are going too fast.
Bernard has received intelligence of his
wife  he hoped to meet her again to-day
and as poor Phyllida seems to be in a
miserable state of doubt and uncertainty as
to whether she outfit to return to her husband,
he thought the presence of his dear
little sister would be of great service to
both of them.'

Did he send you for me ? Does he
wish me to go to London ? Dear, dear
Berne,' said warm-hearted Laura.

Yes ; indeed that is just what he wants,
and sent me to obtain your mother's permission

to escort you to his side. He
thinks that if his arguments have no effect
on PhylHda, your persuasions are certain
to prevail.'

Of course  of course, I will do my very
best and if she will not return to him, I
can at least remain with her. But, Charlie,
mamma and those horrid Muckheeps will be
there. Ought I to go up at the same time ? '

If you are not afraid to trust yourself
with me, Laura, I think that fact is an
extra reason for your making no delay in
joining your brother. It is very probable,
I am sorry to say, that they may burst in
upon him just as he has been reunited to
his wife, and I am afraid to think what
may pass between them, or how serious
a breach their visit may cause. Your presence
will be an immense protection to your
sister-in-law, and, I am sure, a comfort to
Bernard.'

Then I will get ready to go with you
at once, Charlie. There is only Bella

Muckheep in the house, and as she never
does anything but knit stockings, she will
not miss me for a few hours. I shall tell
her I am suddenly summoned to join my
brother. Ring the bell, and order the pony
chaise as soon as it can be got ready, and
I will be with you again before it comes
round.'

And with a smile and a nod, Laura
Freshfield flew off to her own room, leaving
Charles Anderson in a very contented
and self-satisfied frame of mind.

Bernard Freshened had
started for London about a week
before this, and made his way
at once to the hotel where he knew that
Nelson Cole had taken up his quarters.
He found his friend at home and alone
looking rather more haggard than he had
done at Briarwood, as though he had been
somewhat anxious and thoughtful since they
parted, and sitting at a table covered with
papers.

Bernard, my boy ! ' he exclaimed, as our
parson made his appearance, ' I am glad
you have come up to town again. I was

just about to write and ask you to do so.
I have heard of some business since I saw
you last that will detain me in England,
so I expect to be stationary here for the
next few weeks ; and I want you to spend
them with me. It will be ever so much
better for you than moping at Briarwood
by yourself

Thank you, Cole,' replied Bernard, somewhat
shyly, and there he stopped. Nelson
Cole was surprised at his manner and
appearance. He had expected to see him
the very picture of dejection, but he looked
rather cheerful than otherwise, although his
eyes were heavy and his cheeks pale. Yet
there was an air about him as of one who
had passed through the suffering and found
peace on the other side.

You are bearing this trouble better than
I expected, Bernard,' said Nelson Cole,
almost jealously.

Am I ? You don't know what I have
gone through since we parted. But I

confess I feel happier now than I hoped
to do. I had my dear friend Charles
Anderson talking to me for a couple of
hours this afternoon, and he made me see
things in a different light.'

Ah, he is the pious Papist, is he not ? '

Yes, he is a Papist ; and very proud
of being so ; and he is pious, like most
of his faith. It is an exception to the rule
when a Papist is not pious.'

And he talked to you about heaven, I
suppose, and the reward laid up for martyrs
who sacrifice themselves to their opinions,
until you fell in love with suffering, and
are eine to add a hair shirt to the loss
of your supposed wife ? '

Cole, my dear fellow, why do you speak
to me in this way ? ' exclaimed Bernard. ' I
came up to London to tell you of the
resolution I have, after much thought,
arrived at ; but if you are going to treat my
confidence with sarcasm, you will frighten
it away.'

What resolution can you possibly have
arrived at but one ? ' grumbled Cole ; ' the
girl never was married to you according
to your own ideas. She has led you into
spending some six months in what you
would consider to be mortal sin ; and all
that remains for you is to do penance, and
practise mortifications until you have purged
yourself of even the memory of her unholy
presence. I know you parsons. Everybody
may go to the d  1 so long as sou
save your own souls.'

But  was it sin, Cole ?' asked Freshfield
wistfully.

Was what sin ? ' said the other.

My living with Phyllida. She believed
herself free : I believed her to be so, and I
cannot think that an Almighty Father will
punish an unintentional error. If we sinned,
it was not with our eyes open. No ; it is
the concealment she used towards me that
hurts me so terribly. If I can see her soul
purged of that, I shall be content'

And so you have come up to London, I
suppose, to find her out, and bring her down
on her knees for confession ? Her husband
is to be turned into her missionary, and treat
her to a medley of passion and penitence,
till the poor child will be totally unable to
distinguish right from wrong. No, no, it
must not be. I knew the girl in America,
and I won't have her trifled with. You've
renounced her  I don't question your right
to do so, perhaps she is everything that is
bad ; but let the renunciations be final. There
are plenty of parsons In the world beside
yourself; and there is no need for you to go
running after Phyllida Moss, and doubling
her misery for the purpose of converting her.'

Bernard stared at his old friend in amazement.
He hardly knew him. Nelson Cole,
who had always appeared so hardheaded,
cynical and ' cute,' was now working himself
up into something very much like a passion,
and on behalf of a girl whose Condition he
had been the very one to bring about.

I don't understand you,' replied Bernard ;
 in the first place, you are bringing accusations
against me without any cause ; in the
second, you condemn me unheard. Was it
/, Cole, who turned my poor girl out of
doors, or pronounced her unfit to hold the
position she did at Briarwood ? Why, the
blow has nearly killed me, and after a day
and night of torture, I came here to tell you
that I have made up my mind, at all hazards,
to find her again, and persuade her to become
my wife.'

Nelson Cole pushed the hair off his forehead,
and looked up into his friend's face
critically.

Is that so ? ' he asked incredulously ; ' and
have you well considered what taking Phyllis
back again means in your profession
and your family 1 '

I have considered nothing but my own
good and her's  we love each other, Cole 
we belong to each other  we stand alone
and apart  two in one, inseparable  indivisible

 not, mark you, because the law made us
so, but because our hearts were joined before
our hands. I have been very angry and
very shocked. I don't deny it. Your revelations
seemed at first to have made a ofulf
between us that nothing could again bridge
over ; but I am calmer now. I can regard
things in a truer light ; and I see that my
life and her's will be spoiled if they do not
come together again. You laughed at me
once for writing and talking of my soul's
mate. But it was true. I found her in
Phyllida, and in spite of everything she is
mine, and she must remain so.'

You intend to marry her again ? '

I intend, please God, to marry her
again.'

Nelson Cole leapt from his chair and
seized Bernard's hand.

God bless you, my boy ! God bless you ! '
he exclaimed. ' You have lifted a weight
off my mind.'

How could I imagine,' returned Bernard,

that you would receive my news like
this  you who were so hard upon her 
Cole?'

No, not hard, not hard. Was I ? Poor
child ! poor child ! ' replied the other man.

But if so, I am thankful you have the
strength to remedy the harm I did her. Ah,
Bernard, she loves you. I could envy you,
my boy, for being so much loved, but I will
not, for you deserve it. Only guard and
protect her from herself for the future, and I
will believe that for you at least there is a
heaven and a reward laid up in it.'

Then perceiving the look of utter astonishment
with which his friend still regarded
him, and suddenly remembering that he was
talking in a very different strain from what
he usually employed. Nelson Cole drifted
into a sort of apology for his words.

I daresay I seem to be talking a great
deal of nonsense to you ; but the fact is,
Bernard, I found out the other day, from a
conversation I had with Jack Neville, that

VOL. III. M

Phyllida Is the daughter of an old friend of
mine.'

What ! Do you mean the wife of the man
Macpherson, whom Neville mentioned to us?'

Nelson Cole winced.

Yes  his  his  wife. You are rioht. I
find that I knew her, ages ago, and it has
made me feel a great interest in the daughter.
And you really mean to take her back ?
You are not afraid of any more facts cropping
up to nip your new-born resolution in
the bud ? '

I could be afraid but of one thing, Cole,
and that would be any uncertainty respecting
her husband's death. You are sure that
he is dead ? '

I am sure. I have made inquiries since
I saw you last. The rascal was too well
known to be able to pretend to die. He
died in the Tombs, cheating justice to the
last, as he had ever done.'

Then I breathe freely, Cole, and Phyllida
will be my own again.'

But she may have done worse than that,
remember,' said Cole, wishing to test the
sincerity of Bernard's resolution. * She was
on the stao;-e for a twelvemonth, and I won't
be responsible for anything that happened
to her during that period. Suppose she had
half a score of lovers,  eh ? '

Bernard bit his lip, but answered calmly, 

I have determined that all bygones
shall be bygones. If Phyllida consents to
be my wife, we will begin afresh from the
moment of our marriage. She will never
find me calling her to account for what took
place before I knew her.'

Few men are so generous as that,' said
Cole, with a touch of his old sarcasm.

Cole,' replied Bernard earnestly, ' don't
you think that we men are rather hard, as a
rule, upon our women. We allow ourselves
every licence, but we call on them to be Immaculate.
They must not only be modest
and single-minded, but they must live as
though they were perfectly passionless and

without feeling of any sort. Since I have
entered the Church, men have naturally
been more shy of bestowing their worldly
confidences on me, but when I was a wild
young fellow at Oxford, and up to any kind
of spree myself, I used to hear and see
what married men did when away from their
wives, and even then, careless as I was, it
shocked me. I used to think how surprised
those men would be if, when they went
home, their wives (having become aware of
their behaviour) refused to receive them ;
and yet what would they have said if the
same infidelities had been practised in their
absence. They Avould have called their
women by every foul name they could think
of, and declare them unfit to be the wives of
honest men. And the law would have upheld
them. But there is another law than
that of man. Cole, and I am trying hard to
look at this matter according to the law of
God.'

Well, I believe, for your satisfaction,

that Phyllida was always as good as
gold in that respect ; but she got tipsy
one night  there is no doubt of that.
You heard Jack Neville confirm my statement.'


Bernard was racine before him with
dreamy eyes.

Because she heard that the brute to
whom she was tied was locked up, and she
would be free from his persecution for two
years,' he answered. ' Poor child ! How
she mist have suffered to create such
a reaction ! '

Oh, that's the way you take it ; but
isn't there just a chance of her relapsing ? '

Do you think so ? ' cried Bernard, with
sudden energy, springing to his feet. ' Oh
no, no  not whilst my arms are round her
to save her ! My poor darling !  my poor
betrayed and outcast Phyllida ! If any
such terrible harm should follow that one
fall to degradation, it will be laid at his
door, not hers  at the door of him with

whom she was forced into an unholy marriage
; and I will fight for her and with
her until we have stamped out the last foul
memento of that horrible sacrifice. Oh
no, Cole, don't think it. She cannot  she
shall not fall again, with my love standing
between her and temptation ! '

Nelson Cole seized both his hands and
held them as if they were in a vice.

My boy ! ' he exclaimed -  ' my noble-hearted
boy ! The woman who mates with
you should be an angel.'

She shall be one said Bernard, ' if the
prayers of a lifetime can make her so.
Don't tell me any more of her past ; let
us think only of her future. She is more
to me a great deal than the love of my
heart ; she is a soul that God has put into
my hands to save.'

And Bernard looked like a saint as he
pronounced the words.

His friend wrung his hands again and
sat down ; then they both laid their enthusiasm

aside for a while and became
practical.

I was only testing the stuff you were
made of,' said Cole, ' and you have come
nobly out of the trial ; and now to business,
Bernard. Do you know where that
poor girl is .' '

Indeed, I do not. I am here to ask you
to help me trace her.'

I have been thinking about her a orreat

o o

deal since we parted, and I imagine that
old lady, Mrs Penfold, will be better able
to find her than ourselves. Didn't you
tell me she was very kind to Phyllida at
the time of your marriage } '

Very kind, indeed. We were married
from her house in Gatehead.'

Don't you think it is probable that Phyllis
might again seek a shelter with her
cousin at Gatehead } '

Perhaps so ; but Mrs Penfold is still at
Bluemere. She is staying with her sister,
Mrs Pinner.'

Write to her, then, and ask her to go
home, and be ready to receive PhylHda
there. Then we will advertise as if from
her cousin, beoQinof the sirl to return to her
protection. I think we shall catch her that
way. Of course we could put the matter
into the hands of detectives ; but the less
publicity about these domestic affairs the
better.'

Bernard, taking his friend's advice, wrote
to Mrs Penfold to Bluemere ; but as she
had already left Mrs Pinner's, the letter was
forwarded to Gatehead, and reached there
the very morning that the following lines
appeared in the Standard, in answer to
Mrs Penfold's advertisement : 

Phyllida to Gateshead.  / cannot accept
your offer. By-and-by, zuhen I am independent,
I may see yoti agaiii, but riot now.
Many, majiy thanks, and may God bless you.'

Mrs Penfold cut out the advertisement,

and enclosed it in a letter (which might
have been a chapter out of the Lamentations
of Jeremiah) to Bernard, who immediately
carried it to Nelson Cole.

Independent , indeed ! ' exclaimed the latter.
How is such a child to make herself independent
in a howling wilderness like
London, unless it be by returning to the
stage, and she will find a difficulty in
done that. She is sure to look in the
Standard again for another appeal, Bernard.
We will insert one that is certain to bring
an answer.'

But how will that enable us to ascertain
her address ? ' asked Bernard anxiously.
Each day that we are separated now
seems like a purgatory to me.'

Patience, my son, patience. All things
come to him who knows how to wait. This
is the sort of thing I should advise you to
insert in the paper : 

\'' Gatehead to Phyllida.  Mr F. has con-suited

me about putting the case in the hands
of the police. Do you wish hint to find out
yotcr address or not f "

'And what do you expect her to reply to
this ? ' asked Bernard ruefully. ' She will
only say "No." I feel that the shock of
discovery has driven her from me for ever.'

Bernard, my boy, you're a very good
'* cuss," but I calculate you've not been
raised " in the States. This message will be
in Phyllida's hands tomorrow at latest, and
she will be in a regular fix about the police.
Nothing frightens a woman like the law.'

But what's the good of frightening her,
poor darling ? '

I'm coming to that, my son. The first
effect of her fright will be to make her
rush to the Standard office with an answer
to the advertisement. She will write to beg
Mrs Penfold to prevent her from seeing
you.'

Well '

Well, I guess I shall have my eye on
that office all the day, and when she appears
to insert her advertisement, I shall drop
down upon her  sharp.'

Oh, Cole, tomorrow  actually to-sorrow f
Is it possible that tomorrow I shall hold
her in my arms again ? '

Possible, but only possible. Suppose she
refuses to accompany me home ? '

Surely she will not refuse when she hears
how we honos to have her back aQ-ain.'

Don't know. Women are fickle cattle
to shoe behind. But if she accompanies
me here, she may refuse to see yo2t'

Oh no, no. She loves me. Cole, believe
me. She must yearn for me as much
as I do for her.'

Good ; but then there is another risk
of failure  so don't be too sanguine. She
may not go to the office herself, but send
a messenger.'

And in that case, what shall we do ? *
asked Bernard mournfully.

In that case, my chum, we must try
the effect of another advertisement. But
let us see what tomorrow will bring forth
first'

The two men passed that evening together
with a certain degree of cheerfulness,
but Bernard was not too much absorbed in
his own troubles, to observe that Nelson
Cole looked forward to the morrow with
almost as much anxiety as himself. It was
with difficulty when the morning arrived
that he could let him start on his quest
alone  he was so sure that if he stood on
the opposite side of the way, or up the
next street, or under a door-way  that
Phyllida would not perceive him until it
was too late to make her escape. But
Nelson Cole would not hear of his accompanying
him, and made him promise into
the bargain to keep to his own rooms in
the hotel, until he was invited to enter those
of his friend. And so the unfortunate
parson, left behind in that state of mind

when It is quite impossible to fix the attention
upon anything, threw books and papers
consecutively to one side, and ended by
casting himself, face downwards, upon the
bed whilst he worked up his brain to a pitch
of madness, by reviewing all the happiest
scenes he had passed through with Phyllida,
and trying to realise what would become of
him if they never occurred again.

Meanwhile Nelson Cole took up his
station opposite the office of the Standard
paper, and watched carefully all who went
in or came out. He felt more certain of
success than he had confided to Bernard, for
several reasons of his own. In the first
place, he argued that when women are very
anxious about a thing, they always like to doit
themselves  they will not believe that
any one else can do it so well ; and secondly,
Phyllida was a stranger in London, and not
aware perhaps of how easily an advertisement
can be sent, with a few stamps, through
the post ; and thirdly, she was not likely to

be In a position to command the services of
any one to do the errand for her. So he
kept up a steady tramp on the opposite
pavement with his keen eye watching the
approaches from every quarter. About two
o'clock she came, dressed In her serge
costume, pale as a sheet, and with dark
-circles under her eyes, but still Phyllida, and
looking so lovely that every man's head
turned to gaze after her as she passed.
She came on fearlessly, though evidently
labouring under the deepest depression.
But she had no Idea that any one In that
vast crowd would single her out for notice,
and when Nelson Cole, crossing the road,
placed his hand upon her arm and said
the word ' Nestle,' he frightened her so
that she screamed. That name reminded
her of all that was most terrible In her
young life, and she turned about, half-expecting
to see the face of Candle Macpherson
scowling at her, or the ghost of
Fernan Cortes at her elbow. And when

she recognised Nelson Cole, she seemed
hardly less alarmed.

Oh, Mr Cole, why are you here ?
Why do you call me by that name ? '

I came here solely to find you, child, and
I called you bessie' because I knew your
mother, and I used to call her so.'

You knew my mother, and yet you told
///;;/ of me. Oh, I do not believe it. You
are making some pretence in order to dome
further harm. Let me go, Mr Cole ;
pray, let me go. I never wish to see or
speak to you again.'

< Phyllida,' said Nelson Cole earnestly,
 will you believe me when I tell you, that I
Lavish now I had been dead before I confessed
that you were recognised. But it
is too late now for regret. Let me try therefore
to make you some amends. You have
said that I was kind to you once  '

Oh yes, you were indeed,' she interrupted
him gratefully ; ' what should I have
done if you had not come to my rescue at

that miserable time in Chicago ? Why, I
never could have left the city. I could not
have come to England  I should not have
seen him. Ah !  ' and here Phyllida put her
hand against her side as though to still a
sudden pain.

My poor child, you think after all,
perhaps, that that did not turn out such a
kindness. Well, well, never mind it now.
I thought I saw my duty plain before me,
but you were a little goose not to take my
advice and tell Bernard yourself. But,
Nessie  '

Not Nessie, Mr Cole, pray not Nessie.'

Phyllida, then, if you prefer it, come
back with me to my hotel, Phyllida, and
let us talk matters over quietly.'

There is nothing to talk over, sir, and
there is nothing to be done. I have disgraced
him without remedy, and the sooner
he and his friends forget my existence the
better.'

But I am of a different opinion. I have

been talking with Jack Neville since I was
at Briarwood. Do you know, by the way,
that your old friend Jack is in town ?'

Phyllida slightly shuddered.

No, Mr Cole, I had not heard it before ;
but I would rather not see him. He will
remind me of the past'

I had no intention of proposing it, only
I found out from what he told me that I
had been acquainted with your mother,
Mrs Moss (as she called herself), and you
are very like her, Phyllida  very like. I
know now what it is in your face that
attracted me from the first.'

But to Phyllida it was evidently a matter
of complete indifference whether Mr Cole
was attracted by her or not. She moved
uneasily from his side, trying to elude him.

Will you let me pass into the office,
Mr Cole ? I have business here.'

What is your business ? To insert an
advertisement in the Standard?' Don't
throw away your money, Phyllida ; you

VOL. III. N

must have little enough, because I tell you
it will be useless.'

She looked at him in astonishment.

How can you know what my advertisement
is about ? '

I don't know the words of it, but I am
sure of the substance. It is to entreat
your cousin, Mrs Penfold, not to let Bernard
Freshfield put the detectives on your
track, and I can help you in that matter
better than twenty Mrs Tenfold.'

How can you do so ?' she asked faintly. -

Because Bernard will not act without
consulting me, in fact the business will be
put into my hands to work as I choose.
Now, Phyllida, I will make a compact with
you. Come home with me and let us
talk quietly over the matter, and I promise
Bernard shall not have your address
until you give it him yourself. Is it a
bargain ? '

Yes, I will go with you,' she said ; for
she was dying to hear all about her husband,

and how he had borne the revelations
which had been made to him.

She stood quietly enough by Cole's side
until he had hailed a cab and placed her
in it ; but as soon as they were driving
towards his hotel, she startled him by
hiding her face upon his arm and bursting
into a flood of tears.

Oh, Mr Cole,' she sobbed, ' I don't
bear you any enmity  indeed I don't  for
I know it was your duty to tell him ; and
it was to my shame that he should have
been kept in ignorance so long. But my
heart is breaking  indeed  indeed it is ! '

'Hush, Phyllida! Hush, my child he
found himself saying, in the most paternal
manner, as he smoothed the long tresses
which had fallen from under her hat.

I did not dream I was doing him an
injury,' she went on, weeping ; ' how should
I ? I didn't know that anybody considered a
divorce illegal. And, Mr Cole, I was never
really married to that other man ; for I ran

away from him the very same day that my
father forced me into it, and hid in a digger's
hut until Cortes had left the valley. So I
believed I was quite  qtiite free  to do as I
chose.'

Yes, yes ; I understand it all now
replied Cole soothingly ; ' and so will he,
some day. I will take care that he does.
But you must try and compose yourself,
Phyllida, for here we are, close to my
hotel, and you would not like the waiters
to see you in this condition.'

She drew herself up then, and dried her
tears, and pulled her veil over her face,
and walked up to his private sitting-room
with a dignity of which he had hardly
thought her capable ; and Jack Neville's
assertion that ' Nessie always looked like
a lady' came back to his mind as he
watched her.

'And now,' he commenced, when they
had seated themselves, ' tell me first what
you intend to do.'

I am going back to the stage, Mr Cole.
I find my style of acting is all the rage
in London just now, and I have already
had a very favourable interview with one of
the managers.'

Yes, I suppose you will get an engagement,
Stephanie, if it is only for your
beauty. But of course, then, you have
relinquished all idea of returning to Bernard
Freshfield ? '

She gave a sudden cry, and put up her
hand to her face.

'Oh, Mr Cole, don't! You know that
he would not take me back.'

I am not so sure of it. He is very
much attached to you, and I believe he
would be ready to condone everything if
you wished to return.'

'Oh, I couldn't  I couldn't! He may
think so now in the first agony of parting ;
but he would say differently when we had
settled down into a quiet life again. Think
what I have done to him  he who is so good,

so pure, so pious, so fond of his mother and
sister, so anxious to do honour to his profession.
I went amongst them all as his wife ;
I took all the privileges of a wife, and the
respect and esteem. And what has It
ended In ? That he doesn't believe me
to have been free till Cortes died, and
that for six months I betrayed him (by
my cowardice in not telling the truth) Into
the commission of a sin for which he must
look on me with abhorrence, I  I  who
would have died for him,' she continued,
with a fresh burst of grief.

Listen to me, my dear,' replied Cole,
all that you say Is very true, and had you
not believed yourself to be free, and deceived
him Into thinking you so, I daresay
this would have been an awkward matter
to mend. But I have talked with poor
Bernard on the subject, and however
grieved he may be (and he has been
terribly cut up about it), he absolves you
from blame in the matter.'

He absolves me!' she repeated with surprise.
' Does that mean he thinks I was
right ? '

Not quite that, PhylHda. He regrets
deeply that you were not more open with
him, but he does not consider the injury
has been so great as to prevent your
living together again. Bernard wants you
to return to him.'

A gleam of joy shot over her countenance,
but it was immediately succeeded by
her former gloom.

He is wrong,' she answered, ' even to
wish it. Nothing can unmake me. I was
never fit to become one of his family ; and
on looking back, I think I was mad ever
to think of it.'

But if your husband desires you to
return, it becomes your duty to do so.'

He is not my husband,' replied Phyllida.

My dear, I think that question is open
to doubt. If your divorce was a legal one,
he is at any rate your husband by law.'

My Inkstand by law ! ' she echoed ; ' oh,
Mr Cole, you don't know Bernard if you
can speak of him like that ; you don't know
what Bernard can make a woman feel a
husband to be, if you can name the name
In the same breath as law. Do you
imagine I could endure to know myself
to be his wife by law, and miss all the
holiness and sanctity which made the title
sound like a blessing to me every time
he uttered it ? Do you think I could
accept what the law would give me, and
know that the esteem and love which he
showered on me (but which I had no
right to take from him) were dead and
gone for ever ? '

Perhaps not ; but supposing they are
not dead ? '

I should bring him to shame all the
same. I should cause him to be pitied by
his neighbours and avoided by his relations.
Fancy a parson with a wife whose antecedents
must not be Inquired into. Oh,

Mr Cole, do not let him find me out ; persuade
him to leave me alone. He shall
never be troubled again by so much as
the mention of my name, for I will not let
people know that we have ever met.'

I don't think Bernard will consent to
that,' replied Cole gravely. He was beginning
to fear that the task he had taken
on himself would prove a less easy one than
he had imagined.

But he must  he must ! ' cried Phyllida
wildly. ' I will not meet him ; I will not
speak to him. I have been a curse upon
his life, and if my heart breaks under the
ordeal, I will separate myself from him forever
; and were I to see him come into this
room this very moment, I would  Ah !  '

But at this juncture Phyllida turned, and
seeing Bernard himself standing on the
threshold, gave a shriek of joy and flew into
his arms.

Hang you, Bernard ! ' cried Nelson Cole,
with affected anger, ' I thought I desired

you to remain in your own rooms until I
requested the pleasure of your company
here.'

But he might have talked for ever before
the lovers would have heard a word of what
he said.

Forgive me, love, forgive me ! ' Phyllida
was crying, as, having slid from Bernard's
arms, she fell at his feet, and twisted herself
like a snake about his knees; 'I did not know
what I was doing ; I never thought that I
was Injuring you ; I saw only one thing,
and that was my love, which would have
led me to die for you if my death could
have done you any good. Oh, say you
forgive me  you who first taught me that
there is forgiveness for the worst of sinners
say that you do not believe that I wilfully
deceived you  that you will not curse
me for having blighted all your hopes In life ?'

I will say nothing, my Phyllida,' returned
Bernard, as he attempted to raise her from
the ground, ' until you come to my heart 

to your rightful resting-place  and tell me
what you wish from there.'

Oh, Bernard, I am not worthy.'

If you are not worthy, no woman is.
It is your home, dearest, by the rights of
our mutual love, and until you come home,
I will not speak to you.'

Then she suffered him to lift her drooping
form, and clasp it in his arms, and
their lips met, as if there had been no
stain between them, and she had been the
daughter of a duke instead of a disreputable
gold digger, who kept a gaming-table
in the Valley of Sacramento.

You know all  all she whispered.

All, dearest, except one thing which
I wait to learn from your own lips.
There has been an irregularity in our
marriage, Phyllida. Will you marry me
over again ? '

Over again ? ' she repeated, startled at
the idea of so much happiness.

Yes, over again. You are free now,.

by the universal Law of Death  and asa
free woman, I offer you my hand.
Will you accept it, Phyllida ? '

Oh, Mr Cole she exclaimed, turning
to their mutual friend, ' tell Bernard
this must not be. Tell him of what we
were talking before he came in.'

Well, my dear, I don't know of what
you were talking, unless it was of your
determination never to see nor speak to
bim again. And if you are going to
leep your other resolutions as well as
you did that one, why, I don't think you
require any interference on my part.'

She reddened and was silent.

'Phyllida,' said Bernard, 'we don't
want Nelson Cole nor any one else to
settle our affairs for us. You are my
wife, darling  I can never regard you
in any other light  and if you won't come
back to me, I shall have to walk through
life alone, for I certainly should never think
myself justified in marrying any one else.'

There now, you see,' interposed Cole,
if you don't marry him, Phyllida, you'll
have another set of sins upon your head
and by your own account you can't afford
that.'

But your mother and Laura ? ' said
Phyllida timidly to Bernard.

Laura is only too anxious to see us
re-united, darling,  and as for my motherwell,
she is my mother, and not my wife.'

'But the Bluemere people?' continued
the girl with a shudder.

I shall not take you back to Blue
mere, or at all events not for some time.
We will have a holiday first, and enjoy
some travelling together.'

Come over the duck pond with me,'
said Cole ; ' there's lots of sight-seeing for
you in the States.'

Done with you ! ' exclaimed Bernard
heartily. ' If Phyllida agrees, so do L
And now, my love, when is this marriage
to be ? '

When you like, dear Bernard.'

I should like to-day, but as I suppose
it's too late, I like tomorrow. I have a
brother parson close at hand to whom I
will explain matters, and he will do it as
privately for us as possible. You will
some with us, Cole ? '

Oh, yes,' returned Cole gruffly ; * as I
was the cause of the split, I should like
to see the knot tied again, and give the
bride away. And don't you think it
would be kind to telegraph the intelligence
to Mrs Penfold and ask her and
the old captain she writes about to join
us at luncheon afterwards.'

Oh, yes ; let us have cousin Penfold,
by all means,' said Bernard. 'I owe the
old lady another sealskin cloak for the
rapidity with which she advertised for my
darling.'

And now, Phyllida,' said Nelson Cole,
 I had better see you home, and Bernard
can let you know the time and place for

to - morrow's meeting by this evening's
post'

Oh, can't she stay the evening, and
dine with us ? ' asked Bernard, in a tone
of injury.

No ; she is tired out with all this excitement
; she will be much better at
home.'

Let me go with her, then,' replied the
other eagerly.

You will do no such thing ; I shall
take her myself,' was the curt rejoinder ;
and Nelson Cole began to hurry Phyllida
from the room.

She flung herself once more into her
husband's arms, and then turning to Cole,
she caught his hand and timidly raised it
to her lips.

How can I ever thank you,' she murmured,
* for bringing me home again ? '

Won't you give him a better one than
that, Phyllida ?  he deserves it,' said Bernard,
laughing.

The girl raised her head, and kissed
Cole upon the forehead ; and as he felt
the touch of her lips, the blood mounted
to his face as if he had been a boy.

Fancy, a kiss from Agnes's child making
me feel like that ! ' he grumbled to
himself in a cynical manner, as he hurried
after her down to the cab which was waiting
to convey them to her home. He was
ready to laugh at himself for his weakness,
and yet the remembrance of Phyllida's kiss
was with him through his dreams.

The next morning was as bright as the
season could contrive to make it, and the
three people who went to church so early,
and returned to the hotel in time to greet
Mrs Penfold and Captain Barclay on their
arrival from Gatehead, could not have looked
brighter had it been a morning In the leafy
June.

'Not In black this time, my dear,' whispered
Mrs Penfold approvingly, when the
two gentlemen had taken possession of the

nice, bluff old captain, and she had a moment
alone with Phyllida.

'Oh no, cousin Tenfold replied the girl,
smiling, as she contemplated her soft grey
velvet dress. ' Dear Berne telegraphed
yesterday for Mrs Garnett to send up some
of my things. He said we wouldn't have
any mistake this time. Oh ! he is so good
to me, and after all that I have done. I
feel so happy, cousin  just as if it was too
much to bear, and I must die.'

Oh no, my dear, you mustn't say that,'
replied Mrs Penfold, who took everything
she heard ct pied de la letUe. ' Mr Fresh-field
was good enough to write and tell me
all about you, and though I don't say you
ought not to have told us of your former
marriage, yet it's all over now, thank
heaven ! and certainly no one has a better
right to Mr Freshfield than yourself. Ah,
all marriages have their twofold aspects,
and you have found out the truth already.
Well, well,' and Mrs Penfold sighed in a

VOL. III. o

mysterious manner, which seemed to say,
Do ask me a Httle more about it'

Phyllida took the hint.

What is it, dear cousin ? Your marriage
was happy enough, I know, for you have
often told me so.'

Yes, my dear, so long as it lasted,' replied
Mrs Penfold, still mysteriously.

You would like it to come over again ? '
said Phyllida sympathisingly, and with a
happy glance at her Bernard.

I should indeed, my dear ; but what-would
people say ? I shall be fifty-two
next birthday, remember.'

Dear cousin, what do you mean ? '

Why, my dear, I thought you would
have guessed it, from his interest in you and
so forth. Captain Barclay, a thorough
gentleman. Royal Navy, you know, Phyllis
 none of your merchant services, my
dear ; but, then, as 1 tell him, " Captain,
what would the world say 1 " '

A light broke in on Phyllida.

'Is It true ? Oh, I am glad ! Never
mind the world, cousin Penfold. Think of
yourselves, and what your hearts say ; that
is the only thing worth a moment's consideration.
Take a lesson from my Bernard.
You see how little he cares for the
world ; and he Is so good  so perfect.
And a true marriage is such a holy thing.
Oh, I think you will be very happy with
the dear old captain, and I am sure that he
is nice.'

Ah, he is that, my dear  essentially nice,
and has become so used to my ways that
he cannot eat his dinner unless I cook it,
nor sleep at night unless I make his bed.
So I hope I shall make him comfortable in
his last days ; and our little incomes put
together will enable us to keep the house
entirely for ourselves. I shall not dare
tell my sister Charlotte until it is all over ;
but I felt I should like to hear you say,
Phyllida, that you consider the plan a good
one.'

I consider It the very best plan In all
the world cried Phylllda heartily ; but as
she spoke the door was flung open, and
before the waiter could announce the coming
visitors, she found herself clasped in
Laura's arms.

Phyllida, my dear, dear sister. My
darling Phyllida, have you really come home
again ? ' exclaimed Laura in an outburst of
affection and kisses, as she strained her
sister-in-law to her heart.

Yes, yes, I am home for ever now'
returned Phyllida ; ' we have just come
back from church. We have been married
again this morning ; ' and the two girls
cried together for joy.

But please to explain your presence here,'
said Bernard, when the excitement had
somewhat subsided. ' We are delighted,
Laurie, to welcome you and dear old Anderson
to our wedding-breakfast, but I confess
I should like to understand why you two
giddy young creatures are running about

London together, and what brought you
up from Bluemere on this particular day ? '

'Why, where are mamma and the Muck-keeps
? ' exclaimed Laura suddenly, looking
round for them.

We have not seen them. Did you
expect to meet them here ? ' replied her
brother.

They started for London an hour before
we did, that is what made Charlie
bring me up to you, Bernard, because we
feared  we were not quite sure, that is to
say, how you would like the intrusion of
strangers at such a time. Where can
they be ? I am astonished they have not
yet arrived. They must have mistaken the
hotel.'

At the idea of her mother-in-law's appearance,
Phyllida turned pale and crept to her
husband's side. Bernard put his arm firmly
round her.

Never mind,' he said cheerfully, ' weare
not going to wait luncheon for them,

I can answer for that, for I ate no breakfast
this morning, and am as hungry as a
hunter. So, my dear friends, will you take
your places  (ah ! Charlie, how good it is to
see yottr face here, my boy)  and join my
heart in its thanksgiving for the very
happiest meal I've ever sat down to.'

The waiters, who had been busy spreading
the table whilst this conversation was
carried on, now announced that all was
ready, and the party sat down to luncheon.
How merry they were ; and yet not so
merry perhaps as cheerful, for though
Laura blushed and giggled a good deal,
remembering the scene that had taken
place at Blue Mount that morning, and
Mrs Penfold simpered in a matronly way
under the attentions of Captain Barclay,
Phyllida's sweet face turned paler and
paler as the moments went on, and each
one brought nearer to her the dreaded
advent of Mrs Freshfield ; and Bernard
also, although he felt brave as a lion in

defence of his young wife, wished heartily
that the anticipation of the interview had
not spoiled their luncheon. At last, however,
as the meal had nearly drawn to a
conclusion, it came. A querulous voice
was heard approaching by the vast staircases
of the hotel that led to their apartments,
and Laura and Bernard simultaneously
exclaimed, ' My mother ! ' The waiter
in attendance heard them, and threw open
the door, and Mrs Freshfield appeared
first upon the threshold, transfixed at the
scene that met her view.

What is this ? ' she exclaimed angrily,
as her eyes rapidly took in the presence
of Laura and Mr Anderson and the rest
of the wedding guests.

This, mother,' replied Bernard, as, holding
his wife's hand firmly in his own, he
rose to his feet to confront her, ' is my
wedding breakfast ; Phyllida and I have
been married again this morning.'

'Married again!' gasped Mrs Fresh-field,

'and when I have travelled all this
distance at '}ny age to try and save you
from being once more shackled with the
chains of ungodliness ; when I and my dear
saintly friends, the Laird o' Muckheep
and his blessed sister, have hastened hereat
the call of duty to try and snatch
you as a brand from the burning, to find
you once more in the power of Satan, is
indeed too hard.'

Hadn't you better have some luncheon,
now you are here ? ' replied her son practically.


Hoot, Mrs Frail-field,' exclaimed the
voice of Miss Janet, somewhere from the
background, ' diana I tell ye it was rai-sh
to leave Bluemere without the free-teen
dirairc-tions in your han' o' the loose wheel
yon misguided young mon had heeded himsel'.
If ye had taken my advice, ye woudna
ha' dree-even my brother an' myself' round
Loon-don for mair than twa hours whiles
ye tried to re-carl the seem o' the street.

an' ye wood ha' been in time, maybe, to
raise-cue seem fra' the weeks o' the evil
one.'

Mother,' said Bernard, ' if you and your
friends Hke to take your places amongst
us as friends, we shall be glad to see you ;
but if you have journeyed to town for the
express purpose of insulting me and my
wife, the sooner you go back to Bluemere
the better.'

Oh, sir,' exclaimed Mrs Freshfield, turning
to some one who stood behind her,
can you not say a word in season to my
unhappy son ? '

'Ay,' replied the voice of the Laird o'
Muckheep, ' when I can see him, madam,
mebbe I shall be auld the rest thing to
say to touch his hair ; but at this moment,
Mrs Frail-field, it's nothing I can see but
the too o' your ane bonnet.'

I beg you ten thousand pardons,' said
Mrs Freshfield, as she made way for the
laird to appear upon the threshold ; ' in

my terrible grief and disappointment I
could think of nothing but myself.'

But at the sound of the laird's voice,
Phyllida had risen suddenly to her feet and
clung to her husband, almost convulsively. 

What Is It, my darling ? What do you
fear ? ' Bernard was saying tenderly, when
his mother's saintly friend came to the
front.

See, see ! ' shrieked Phyllida, as she
pointed to him ; ' I knew It was he. I
recognised him from his voice. There
stands my father

She did not hide her face, but she
pressed It close against her husband's
breast, whilst her eyes glowed like living
coals, and every feature was expressive of
the keenest horror.

Your father I ' repeated Bernard. But
by this time a fearful oath had rung
through the room  such an oath as comes
from the lips of a man, but seldom In his
lifetime  such an oath as the condemned

felon in the dock might level at the one
who had been the cause of his standing
there, and it had issued from the lips of
Nelson Cole.

Sandie Macpherson, by all that's holy ! '
he exclaimed as he started to his feet.

The Laird o' Muckheep turned livid 
the sweat started to his forehead, and his
limbs shook under him. Miss Janet was
the first to come to the rescue.

Hoot, mon,' she cried, ' ye cinna ken
wha ye speak to  Sandie Macpherson, indeed.
It's my brother, the Laird o' Muck-keep,
wha Stan's befoor ye ; a mon whales
spencer his life in bringing back hairs
souls to the ane food. What wood ye
ha' in calling' the laird by sic a seem as
that ? '

The Laird of Muckheep ? ' cried Phyllida ;
it is not true. His name is Macpherson,
and he is the greatest enemy I ever had.
There stands the man, and let him look
me in the eyes and deny it if he dare,

who forced me to marry his colleague
Fernan Cortes, for fear I should betray the
murder I saw them commit between them.'

At the word ' murder! which sends a
thrill through every breast, the luncheon
party rose to their feet simultaneously, and
shrank in horror from the man who stood
in their midst.

Ye bold-faced lizzy,' interposed Miss
Janet, 'to ca' the Laird o' Muckheep out
o' his ain respected name.'

I don't know what his own name maybe,'
continued Phyllida, ' for he has had a
dozen names to my knowledge, but he
knows that what I say is true. He knows
that I saw him hold Norris the Englishman
down by the arms, whilst Cortes
stabbed him in the back with his bowie-knife,
and that when I threatened to expose
his villainy, he locked me up in a
room until he brought a man to marry
me to Cortes, and that he had to hold
me himself whilst the vile ceremony was

performed. Answer me, Macpherson,' cried
the girl, with eyes of fire, * Is it not the
truth that I am telling now ? '

Phylhda, he is too much of a cur todo
you justice,' exclaimed Nelson Cole ;
it is a man alone who ought to deal
with him, and it is a man who will bring
him to his knees. Do you know me,
Sandie Macpherson?' he said in a voice
of thunder, as he strode up to the quondam
gold-digger of Sacramento Valley, and
glared in his face, * Do you know me
Nelson Cole ? Answer that.'

Macpherson glanced round the room once
or twice uneasily, and then made a bolt for
the door. But Cole had already pinioned
his arms from behind.

No, my friend,' he said, shaking his head
over him, ' you don't leave us just yet, not
till I've finished with you at all events ; and
if you attempt any violence I will hand you
over at once to the police. I repeat my
question, Do you know me ? '

Of course I know you,' replied Macpherson
sullenly.

Of course you know me, and I will tell
this company why. Nineteen years ago,
ladies and gentlemen, this brute, writhing
in my grasp here, who has come to England
with a shorn face to profess piety, ran
away with my wife, Agnes Summers, whom I
had married in St Domingo the year
before.'

My mother ! ' exclaimed Phyllida.

Yes, child, your unhappy mother, who
appears to have expiated her error by a life
of suffering. Thank God she is at rest !
but you have still to answer to me, Sandie
Macpherson, for the wrong you did her. I
have tracked you round and round the States
for this alone ; I have watched and waited
for you in vain ; and now that you've dropped
into my mouth like a ripe plum at the time
I least expected it, you needn't think that I
will let you go without the punishment I
 have thirsted to give you.'

Oh, this must be some dreadful mistake,'
said Mrs Freshfield, sinking into a chair,
with her handkerchief to her eyes, ' to talk
of crime and punishment in connection with
a saint like the Laird o' Muckheep, and one
whose whole life has been spent in doing
good.'

Ech ! but these charles 'full discover their
mistake before lang, Mrs Frail-field ; an'
it's a terrible penalty they'll ha' to pee for
latin' violent hans upon the sacred pair-son
o' a Muckheep.'

Oh no, madam, do not flatter yourself
with such a false idea,' said Phyllida.
Who should know better than myself what
that miserable man is ? / who have the
misfortune to call him 'father!' He killed
my mother by a long course of cruelty
and violence. He sacrificed me, his only
child, to a man as wicked as himself to
conceal his own crime.'

You're no bairn o' mine,' interrupted
Macpherson with a scowl. ' Ay, Mr Cole,

but ye needna glare at me after sic a fashion.
Ye maun do what ye Hke wl' me noo ; I've
had my revenge on ye befoor-hand. Ye
diana lose onely your wife by my means,
for she brought your bairn along wI' her,
and for sixteen years she leered as my ain
daughter in the Sacramento Valley, and
there's many to testify to the truth o' that.'

Brute ! ' exclaimed Cole, as he nearly
shook the life out of him. ' Villain, devil !
Was It not sufficient to rob me of one Agnes
at a time ?'

Not his child ! ' cried Phyllida, In a transport
of delight. ' Oh, there may be some
chance of my redeeming the past yet. Not
belong to that vile, wicked man ! Bernard,
kiss me. I shall be a better woman than I
ever hoped to be.'

'What wood ye be coin' by me?' demanded
Macpherson, as Nelson Cole administered
a tremendous kick to his person.

What would I be doing by you } ' he
repeated scornfully. ' Why, I would like to

treat you as you treated her  to take your
life from you, drop by drop, and see you
die by inches in silent, hopeless agony. But
you are a brute, and I am a man, and I will
not forget that you have restored to me my
child.'

 Speer me ! ' said Macpherson, shivering
on his knees.

Spare you ? Did you spare my wife ?
Have you spared my daughter ? For what
reason should I spare you ? '

But she wasna' married to Cortes  it was
no a pair-son that I brought to per-fair the
ceremony. It was joist a tree-ck I played
to prevent the girl fra spleen-tin' on us.
And noo I ha' auld ye that, and ane gude
tarn deserves another.'

'Not a parson!' repeated Phyllida, 'not
married to Cortes ! and I ran away from him
the very same day. Oh ! Bernard, I am
indeed your own. How mercifully I have
been preserved for you.'

I will let you go, then,' said Nelson Cole,

VOL. III. p

addressing Macpherson, ' but not to pollute
this country with your presence. Leave
England, and never show your ugly face in
it again, or I will make the place too hot to
hold you

But ye ha nae proofs  ye canna hand
me over to the police said Macpherson
anxiously.

I can make the country ring with your
story though, until you are hounded like a
leper from the presence of every honest man.
And I will do it, excepting on that one condition.
Do you understand me . '

I do.'

Go, then, and take your sister with you.
We wish no remembrance left behind of the
injury you have caused so many here.'

He loosed the creature with a parting
shake as he spoke, and Miss Janet, taking
her cue from her brother's demeanour, slunk
after the Laird o' Muckheep from the room.
Then there was a silence, broken only by the
weeping of Mrs Freshfield  for every one

Phyllida. 227

felt that the next words would be sacred.
And so they rung out, like a clarion peal from
heaven upon the happy air, 

Father ! '

My own, own child.'

And Bernard took his wife and placed her
in the arms of Nelson Cole.

